The Plea of the Relief Society Magazine By Sarah A. Garvin The material on this and the following pages was written for the Magazine campaign of 1934. We think some will be glad to use it in the coming drive ?Editor. AM not very large, but when even a small magazine goes out with the one object in life of doing good and bringing cheer and happiness it can fill its mission even if it is small. I am not so very old, my life began in 1914, but for one so young I have traveled to many lands. I always keep good company I never mix with cheap or poor magazines. You would never expect to find me in a rack in a pool-hall or at one of the many magazine stands about town, I keep better company, the best society is more to my liking. Poor people are my friends and I am very happy when I can go to their homes and give them joy. I have found my place in many homes and I have helped make many homes happy. I have seen the faded eyes of gray headed women brighten when I arrived and they carefully turned my leaves and with joy they read me. I am never thrown on the floor or put in the waste basket. I remember one time after I was read I was carefully placed on a shelf and it seems I must have been sleeping and awoke hearing a discouraged voice saying: "We just cannot spare the money; there are always so many other things we need." Then the gentle voice I knew said: "You may take my magazine, my dear, and I hope you enjoy it as I have."' Then I was taken from my resting place, how eagerly the trembling hands took me and I went to another home. It was a poor home but I was happy there for I was giving happiness to others. I thought how glad I would be if I could be sent to new homes, so more could enjoy me. One time I lay on the table all day while a little mother was working. Things were going wrong, the baby cried, angry words were spoken. The mother was very tired and nervous. I lay there wanting to help her. The time came when I did help her. She took the baby and picked me up. Soon the baby was resting in her patient arms, and as she read me her nerves relaxed and peace came to her face. A few tears fell on my pages. HAVE the power to mellow my readers to tears. I was sent by kind friends to the home of a dear old lady. She had very little pleasure, I was so welcome there she read every page and pressed me to her lonely heart. I heard her murmur, "Dear little magazine I love every page of you because you have helped me so much." This made me very happy. One evening a father came home and I was right there in his paper rack. He picked me up and read my front pages, and said, 'Mother, have you read this?" She answered, "No I have not had time but can hardly wait to read it." He told her it was the best article that he had read for a long time. I message is given, women have Paused to think of Him. To read the theology What en joyment in the literary lesson to learn of great people in all lands and ages. You can forget your Surroundings and live with" the authors, I am sure you all like the Social Service lessons. Have you noticed that my stories carry a message to you? I make one feel more charitable to others, me atta few of the things found each month in me. I want to know you all. I want to help you all. Will you not let me? Take me in your home and I will Soon find my Place in your hearts. I have so many friends. You be my friend, let me come each month to you and at the end of a year you will Say, "I have received more 800d and more joy from that dollar than any other dollar have spent MY MAGAZINE: By Mary P. Hoyt I heard the Postman whistle AS he went back down my walk, I thought, "My, he's early!" As I glanced Up at the clock. My Morning's work Wasn't finished, had still Some tasks to do, but I looked into the mail box For a letter, or maybe two. With its Pages folded over Lightly Pressed within the cleft f the box, was My magazine The only thing he had left. I thought, "I wish I had time to read it." And I turned the Pages o'er, I opened it at the editorial Page Or there I knew I'd find, Something Worth the keeping In the chambers of my mind. I read them once, twice, three times, breathed a Sigh, 7 Does the temperature Tise or fall When I Am I given to fault-finding? AM I untidy, selfish, lazy, or am I just? Do I spend my time Profitably? Or am I only a Pessimist? These are some of the questions My Magazine offere to me, And I Paused on my Way to the table, Wondering, Pondering, thinking deeply. Then J thought of the words of the savior, When he talked to the Pharisee, When the lawyer tried to trap him ith the law and the man-made creed, The first commandment js greatest, ? second is like the first  Program for Relief Society Magazine Campaign By Clarinda M. Green TWO children walk on stage carrying a large Relief Society Magazine. Magazine made out of large placards in form of book. Children dressed in pages costume enter at right and walk across to left of stage. Place magazine on stand while officers sing "Our Magazine" by Eliza Catmull. As song is finished, one child turns the cover of the magazine and another child points to article on first page "Quinquennials" (July Mag. P. 408). As child points to article a Relief Society woman enters from right and briefly gives contents of that article. Exit. Child turns second page and another child points to article "Emotional Reactions to Unemployment and Relief" (July Mag. P. 387). Relief Society woman enters from right and gives contents of that article. Exit. Same action is carried out in the following articles: Story. "To your Tents, O Israel" July Mag. P. 427. Editorial "Utah State Flag" July Mag. P. 439. "For Young Mothers" Feb. Mag. P. 98. Poetry. "My Investment" by Estella Wilson Peterson. Frontispiece Oct. 1933 Mag. "Happenings" from any magazine. "Building a Diet" poem by Eliza Catmull. "Notes from the Field" Dec. 1933 Mag. "Notes to the Field" Aug. 1934 Mag. Teachers' Topic. "Courage to Meet Life's Problems" Apr. Mag. P. 238. "Your Home Beautiful" as child points to this article, curtain rises on See page 595. "A Home Beautiful" Characters: Father, Mother, Betty age 10, Nora age 14, Nell age 16, Ted age 19. At right down center, father sitting in large easy chair reading Relief Society Magazine. Nora sitting on foot stool in front of him, studying. Nell and Ted sitting at each end of Library Table at center back, studying. Mother down left center working on yarn cushion with Betty watching her and holding candy dish in hand and eating candy. At end table with small bank on it at side of mother's chair. Ted: Hey, Sis, Mother, put that candy dish down on this table, what is the big idea taking it off? Betty: It's good. Father: Sure it's good, bring it back here. Nora: Yes, pass it around, you don't need it all. (Betty passes candy around). Nell: Mother, this fudge is better than mine, where did you get the new recipe? Betty: She got it out of the Relief Society Magazine and I helped make it. Nora: Mother, we have to write an essay on Church Government for Seminary. Where can I find some information? Mother: Doc. And Cov Section 20. Vol. I of Church History, or you can find a good account of it in the Feb. 1933 Relief Society Magazine. Nora: Where is it? Mother: In that bound volume on the library table. (Nora goes to table, gets book and returns to her stool and reads). Father: (Who is still reading magazine). Quite a trip these Relief THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Society women had at the World's Fair last summer. Mother: Yes, it just thrilled me to read the report of the International Congress of women, and the account of the whole trip and the climaxing of the trip by the unveiling of the Relief Society monument at Nauvoo. It certainly tells the story of women's achievements. Ted: (rising) Guess I'll have to go down to the library for a little while, I've got to get a reference book for my psychology. Mother: What is the name of the book? Ted: "Influencing Human Behavior." Mother: Why, I have that book, it is right there in front of you. Ted: (looks over books on library table and picks up the one he wants) Well, where did you get it? Mother: It has been there for two years. We studied that in Relief Society in our Social Service lessons. There are some good outlines on each chapter in the 1931-32 Relief Society Magazines. Nell: Maybe the Relief Society Magazine can give me some help. Where can I find something on Biblical Literature? Mother: You will find that in the March 1934 magazine. I also have a book "The Story of the World's Literature," by Macey which will give you a lot of valuable information. We have been studying from that book a year and will continue it this winter. Father: Here is a little pink slip says your magazine has expired. Have you renewed yet? Mother: No, Father, I haven't quite enough pennies (reaches bank from end table and holds up). Father: What is that? Mother: That is my Relief Society Magazine bank. 595 Father: A bank? I thought that was some kind of an ornament you had been making in Relief Society. How many pennies do you need? Mother: I counted them the other day and I need eight more. Father: (putting hands in pocket) Anybody got any pennies around here? (children and father all go to pockets and purses and find ten pennies) There, now, that makes the hundred pennies and two to start on for next year. Looks as if this were a very valuable magazine around here. Mother: Yes, father, it is a valuable magazine. It is an inspiration to me. Not only for the educational values I receive from it, but the stories and articles are all an inspiration to me. *Each topic was allotted three minutes' time except the Story and little play which took a little longer. It just took up the time of the Sacrament meeting which was given to us by the bishop. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (Tune: Maryland) By Eliza Catmull A little story I will tell About a book we love so well; Upon its pages you will find The gospel's truths?God's word divine. Chorus: Our magazine, our magazine, The little book we so esteem; The readings all are good and clean In this our R. S. Magazine, It brings a message of good cheer; The teachers topics for the year, A college course that's up to time? Lessons planned to improve the mind. Its efforts all the Lord has blessed, It is the keynote of success. We ask you kindly to subscribe, And help it as it onward strives. Come sisters rally to the call, We want your help, we need you all, "A magazine in every home'? The gospel seed will then be sown. 596 MY FRIEND By Sadie Adamson They tell me we have no friends That are really truly so, They are just acquaintances we meet As we travel to and fro. I differ with these statements For I have a friend so true, I depend upon every month To bring me thoughts anew. My leisure time is so controlled So happy and so fine, I'll gain an education Just through this friend of mine. When I'm steeped in thought My vision seems to climb, And somehow shape the way for me To heights that are sublime. You'd never guess the rapture That flows within my breast, When the postman bows and smiles Mrs..........-. Here's your guest. I extend my hand in greeting Like a Miss of seventeen, And settle down in comfort sweet With my Relief Society Magazine. MAGAZINE SONG Springtime in the Rockies) (Slowly) When it's autumn in the Rockies It's Magazine time in the Ward, Little journal of the mountains With your cheerful, pleasing words; There is poetry and there's fiction And there's lessons fine for you, When it's Autumn in the Rockies It is journal time for you. A FAITHFUL FRIEND By Emma Jesperson (Tune: I'm looking for a magazine That comes each month to me And if you'd like to know its name 'Tis Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It has been my loved companion Since nineteen twenty-three, And oh, what joy and comfort It has always brought to me. It has taught me to be brave and strong In all I strive to do, It has helped me to be a faithful wife And a better mother too. It has taught me to be cheerful If sometime things went wrong It has kept me in a better mood All of the day long. So I'll say hurrah for our magazine! And subscribe for it each year. For it will always be a friend of mine As long as I am here. ~ THE MAGAZINE By Eliza Coleman (Tune: Magazine, O Magazine, On this day we cheer; Learning truth and honor From your pages dear. Help us ever magazine, With your messages right; May we ever cherish Thy way of life so bright. Chorus: Magazine, O Magazine, We thy cause hold dear, Giving truth and courage Magazine we cheer. We are full of valor, For thy wondrous way, Pure in thoughts of honor To those who blazed the way. Help us ever magazine With hope for victory Bidding all a welcome For opportunity. Onward Christian Soldiers) Begin Next Monday Prepare for a position in business as Secretary, Stenographer, Accountant, Bookkeeper or Office Assistant. Technical business training, added to your previous education, will qualify you for a foothold in a business office, where you can forge ahead.