The Greatest Adventure By Clara Perman
Will Your Six Year Old Be Well Equipped?
"MUMMY, may I take Miss Kent some flowers?" came from my six-year-old son who was starting off to school. I was very busy putting up fruit; but I didn't want to discourage this attitude toward his teacher. I took my shears and went out. As I picked the gayest flowers he said, "You know, I believe I like Miss Kent better than you." He smiled at me sheepishly and went on, "You know—she has us do so many things that are so much fun."
"Yes, I know," I smiled back at him. "I knew you would think school was a lot of fun." He was really paying me a compliment. I had worked for six years just to hear that.
"What do you think, mummy, Jackie just sits and bawls—his mother brings him and he hangs to her and don't want to stay—but she makes him, and then he won't read, or play games, or nuthin'."
"Well, he's funny," I said, as I handed the bright bouquet to my smiley boy; but it brought before me that picture of the unhappy child whose mother might have thought that getting his school clothes ready was the only equipment necessary for this greatest adventure.
"Going To School" is the greatest adventure a child will ever make, because all other adventures depend entirely upon this thing called education. The equipment with which he starts forth will determine victory or defeat. He looks forward eagerly to these wanderings on many winding, mysterious paths which lead to dragons that must be encountered, for that is real adventure. If he is well armed for the conquest, he will get a great deal of joy and satisfaction in conquering; but if he meets constant defeat because of inadequate equipment, he is forced to join the group of unhappy children listed as "maladjusted". He will not make the progress that he should; for where there is no happiness, there can be no interest.
The mother of a pre-school child often fails to realize the importance of proper training during this plastic and formative stage in the child's life. She feeds him, clothes him, keeps him from physical harm until he reaches the sixth year; then turns him over to a teacher saying, "It's up to you." She may not know that the personality pattern of a child is set at the age of five. She has made him before she hands him to the teacher with the demand that a good job of citizenship be done.
In order that a child adjust easily to his school environment he must be well equipped physically, mentally, socially and emotionally. Surely it is needless to emphasize the importance of arming him with good health. It has been well established that the necessary powers of concentration, attention, inquisitiveness, and natural alertness are lacking if the child is not physically fit. Good motor coordination will be an added aid to the young adventurer; this can be gained by working with tools, bouncing a ball, or playing with toys that call for muscular activity.
By mental equipment we mean a good background of experience
THE GREATEST ADVENTURE
gained through stories, travel, excursions, and opportunity for self-expression; we do not mean any knowledge of reading, writing, or arithmetic as such. There is the mother, so anxious to have her child well equipped, that she forces these mechanics upon him before he is ready. For instance, the child who is made to count each clothespin that he brings to his mother and each step that he takes in the bringing, when he is anxious to run and play, will hate counting and possibly will form a definite dislike for numbers. Numbers are usually fascinating to little children and they should be encouraged to count if interest is shown in it; but they should not be forced to do so under any circumstances. There is also the mother who has been told that she should teach the child absolutely nothing; so she trembles with fear when he asks to be told the letter on a block or the words on a milk bottle. Our advice to this mother is—Teach the child what he is ready for, what he asks for; capitalize these interests as they appear or they may die in the bud. Although the a b c's are not taught in the first grade, that knowledge picked up of his own volition will not seriously interfere with a child's adjustment. And if grandfather insists upon teaching him to spell c-a-t cat, don't worry! He won't be permanently injured. However, there is danger in the teaching of reading. Mothers do not seem to be easily reconciled to the story method. Not only do they insist that every word be known; but that every word be pointed to as proof. This makes for a slow reader who will not have a wide span or quick eye movement. Stimulate a love for reading through your stories, let him pretend he is reading if his interest runs in that direction—
551
but please leave the mechanics to the trained teacher.
Children at a very young age will want to experiment with paints and crayolas. They should be allowed to feel the pleasure of creating a picture; then every vestige of joy should not be snatched by the question, "What is it?" It is wise to ask, "Tell me about your picture." Many lines and scratches will take on value. Criticism may kill the spontaneity from which all creativeness springs. The best in his picture should be praised; but restrict that urge to demonstrate. Once during my early experience in kindergarten work one of my pupils called attention to his rainbow. As it failed to coincide with my preconceived ideas, I made the fatal error of dashing off my conception of the bowed arch of heaven; then gnashed my teeth for the next six weeks as each child who went to the easel made the exact reproduction of my very sketchy rainbow. The child who has been shown how to draw will have better form, possibly at an earlier age, but not the spontaneity or creativeness.
The mother who can't be bothered to keep her child profitably occupied is usually the one who is constantly wondering why he is so naughty. Mentally alert children need stimulation. It will require less effort on the mother's part if she will provide it. Give him tools and grocery boxes; lead him to feel his own powers and take pride in them; see that he is depending more and more on self and less and less on mother.
THE social equipment of a child is of even greater importance. He must have had experience in dealing with other children in order to learn the "give and take", sharing with others, taking turns, standing on his own feet without the aid of mother's
552
apron strings. He will have many new experiences when he starts to school: unless paths have already been formed in the nervous system to carry off these new impulses, they will be distributed throughout all the channels, causing diffusion. This usually results in crying, hating school, a Jackie who sits and looks on while the others have a good time and are making progress. This is most unfortunate, for the beginning of this adventure is the one great factor in determining its outcome.
The equipment of greatest importance, and that which is most often neglected, is the child's emotional adjustment. He must have self-control learned through experience with parents who exercise self-control. He must have faith, built up from perfect trust, unshattered by domestic strife which should never have reached his ears. He must have consistent home training. A love-blind mother, whose only wish is for the child's happiness may weight him down with unhappiness a hundredfold. A child who has tyrannized his family finds it difficult to adjust to a situation where he must show consideration for others; and usually reacts by open rebellion. One who is of high intelligence will soon overcome this because he is stimulated by the learning and activity program.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The slower child will not respond so readily to these stimuli; he is a problem to the teacher and is usually thoroughly disliked by the other children. The little "monarch" at home becomes the "outlaw" at school.
Much has been said of making the activity program a means of wider freedom which has led some mothers to give their children no guidance or direction, whatever. They should stop to realize why it takes the human being twenty-one years to mature—the animal mother can teach her offspring all that it needs to know in six months. There will be no progress. Unless parents hand down to their children the culture gained through the experience of their generation. They must stimulate, suggest, guide, direct, but not dominate. Domination is the great bug-bear which destroys the child's initiative and causes him to lose faith in himself.
In order that the Big Adventure be a happy and successful one I suggest the following recipe for mothers of pre-school children; Take one fattened child, well spiced with the love of recognition. Add many abiding interests. Keep boiling with purposeful activity. Season well with consideration for others, kindness, generosity, and unselfishness. He will be ready to serve at all times.