Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
SEPTEMBER—Nothing lightens sorrow nor assuages grief like work. It is the secret of resignation and brings happiness.
THE Catholic Daughters of America and the National Association of Business and Professional Women held notable conventions in Seattle this past summer. The first was marked by strongly worded resolutions against birth control, salacious entertainment, communism and atheism. The second by forceful pleas for equal opportunity in every line of endeavor, while discrimination against married women in different fields was condemned.
PRISCILLA SAWYER RANDOLPH, of Los Angeles, was elected president of the National Association of Women Lawyers. Mrs. Randolph states that an appalling number of women teachers are divorcing their husbands in order to hold their jobs. In view of this it is refreshing to learn that the great city of London has removed the ban on married women teachers.
MLLE OSAKA, age 22, of Paris, has recently been declared a wonder girl. The metaphysical Institute of Paris has announced, after several tests, that she has the most accurate mathematical memory on record.
MAUD ADAMS is planning to return to the stage of Broadway in October, in a play specially written for her with a part of her own age 62. Once the idol of the White Way as "Peter Pan" and "The Little Minister," it is hoped Miss Adams will still hold her own in the mature part.
GERALDINE FARRAR has inherited an estate from her father of over $80,000 It is refreshing to hear of one operatic star who need not "die in poverty."
ELAINE BROCKBANK, a Utah girl, has achieved success as a sculptor. She was recently sent as a delegate from the Ann Arbor society of Art to the convention of the American Federation of Arts held in Washington, D. C.
Miss MARIE SANDOZ won the Atlantic non-fiction prize for 1935, for her manuscript called "Old Jules."
MLLE MARYSE HILSZ, French aviatrix, recently reached an altitude of 75,771 ft. She is now officially recognized as holding the world's record for women.
SHEILA FITZGERALD'S, "Hungarian Rhapsody," Emily Hahn's, "Affair," Hope Syke's, "Second Hoeing" and Doreen Wallace's, "Latter Howe" are listed as good reading novels among the new books.
MARJORIE BARSTOW GREENBIE in her engaging book "The Arts of Leisure" emphasizes the fact that the gracious, delicate arts of sociability, conversation, etc., add grace and richness to living almost forgotten in the hurry of the modern day. The book is charming and worth-while.