A Welcome Letter
WE are sure our readers will enjoy reading this delightful letter sent to President Louise Y. Robison from the Mission Presidents of the European Mission. It shows how closely akin are all our organizations. As these sisters were meeting, their thoughts went out to those laboring at Relief Society headquarters. May every success attend these faithful women.
Liege, Belgium July 2, 1935.
Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, President, Relief Society  , Utah
Dear Sister Robison:
Here in Liege, city of many memories for you, the European Mission Presidents and Mission Mothers are in conference and send love and greetings to you, and to all the members of the General Board.
The musical chimes still waken us at five o'clock in the morning. The near-by flower market is as lovely as ever. Do you recall the clusters of white flowers at every stall, especially the white gladioli and peonies, and then the old-fashioned things like pinks and moss roses? The baker's man comes to the door with his long, unwrapped loaves under his arms, the milkman delivers from cans attached to a yoke that he wears across his shoulders, and the farmer's wife comes to town with a long pole in either hand, from which are suspended her bundles of fresh strawberries. The women scrub their stone door-
574
steps and walls, and wash the sidewalks daily, and both men and women pull heavy carts up the steep hills, with sometimes a dog helping with the burden, pulling between tugs at the rear end of the cart. We walked up to the Citadel, where we saw the war monuments, the Meuse, with its seven bridges, and the distant hills down which the German army came swarming on Liege. We thought if you could manage the four hundred and forty-three steps descending from the Citadel we could do likewise, and we did, and still arrived at meeting the following morning on time.
The conference has been wonderful. It has been conducted by President Merrill, with a fine judicial point of view and breadth of vision. We all feel a new inspiration and eagerness to continue with our work. The meetings have been characterized by a frankness and honesty of discussion, opinion, and narration of experiences that we all deeply appreciate. Our six-and-a-half hour testimony meeting Sunday was a spiritual feast for us all. The Spirit of the Lord was there in great abundance. We have spent much time in discussing Relief Society work, and the understanding we have attained of each other's mission problems in this activity, has created in each of us an enlargement of vision, and a desire to begin more earnest and intelligent work. As Sister Merrill expects to report these activities we shall not go into further detail, except to state that we are deeply appreciative of the help and cooperation you have given us.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
We meet all day every day in the L. D. S. Chapel on the hillside, and the Liege Relief Society has proved, as usual, indispensable in any Church undertaking. The sisters have done some valiant work, cooking hot vegetable dinners for us down stairs? valiant because of the stifling weather and the coal stoves they use. It has been an excellent thing for us to have a vegetable, salad, fruit dinner along Word of Wisdom lines, with a bit of home-made French pastry thrown in occasionally. We feel that our entire experience here has been of the greatest value to us in our efforts to carry out our responsibilities as our Father in Heaven desires us to do.
Sincerely your sisters,
Emily T. Merrill, European Mission. Axeline N. Peterson, Swedish Mission. Elizabeth H. Welker, German-Austrian Mis. Martha K. Gaeth, Czechoslovakian Mis. Vivian E. Knudsen, Norwegian Mission. Hannah Ursenbach, French Mission. Eliza S. Petersen, Danish Mission. Ruth L. Lang, French Mission. Ramona W. Cannon, British Mission. Hermana F. Lyon, Netherlands Mission. Susan G. Kelly, Swiss-German Mission. Bertha Pivamian, Palestine-Syrian Mis.