Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Leila Marler Hoggan
Keep SMILING
"Be glad, little heart of mine: The stars go singing on their way; Night is the harbinger of day; 'Tis good to live and work and pray; "Be glad little heart of mine" —Mabel C. DeVona.
MIRTH is the key that unlocks the door to the little House of Happiness. It is the gentle laughter, the merry whistled tune, the glad song, that woos the world from the lonesome road leading into the valley of tragic endings. Mirth is the fragrant oil of contentment that calms the troubled sea of hopeless regret. The Good Book informs us that:
"A merry heart doeth good like a medicine; But a broken spirit drieth the bones." —Proverbs 17:22.
And we are assured by those who know, that joy and laughter promote digestion, stimulate circulation, and prolong life. In fact, mirth is a most effective curative measure for many maladies.
554
In these distressing times, there is a tendency to take life too seriously. The little mischief maker, Self-Pity, is slipping into many a heart unbidden. The easiest way to rout him is to laugh him out of countenance. The more we brood over a gloomy situation the worse it appears to be. Worry tends to magnify and intensify our trials. If we permit ourselves to go over a sad experience repeatedly, enlarging the unhappy details from day to day, we finally reach a mental condition where we are no longer master of the situation. It is then most difficult for us to look upon the experience from a normal point of view. We have permitted a mole hill to grow into a mountain.
MUCH of the tragedy of the world could be avoided if everyone would cultivate a cheerful, hopeful disposition. Many a distressing situation could be saved if we would learn to see the humorous side of life. Watch for the joke. Let the taut nerves relax. Indulge in a good laugh. According to H. A. Overstreet, "The most liberating ability possessed by man, is the ability to laugh at himself." Wholesome, humorous books could well be made the saving grace of many a home overshadowed by grief, or sickness, or distress. Ralph Waldo Emerson said:
"The inner side of every cloud Is bright and shining. I, therefore, turn my clouds about And always wear them inside out, To show the lining."
"Walt Mason is a better tonic than anything that ever was bottled," Elbert Hubbard informed us. If you are searching for a happy philosophy of life, read Mason's "Terse
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Verse." And if you have not already enjoyed Ralph Parlette's "Pocket-Books and Paradises," you have a treat in store.
WHEN your burdens of care begin to multiply and you feel as if you are nearing the end of your endurance, just mentally change places with your great-grandmother for a day. Would it not be an interesting experience on wash-day morning to build a fire in an open grate, and carry water in brass kettles from a distant spring, only to find upon going for your wooden tub, that the water had dried out of it and it had fallen to pieces? Would it upset your peace of mind to have to stop and strike flint and catch the spark in a bit of dry bark before you could start your fire? How would you enjoy reading by the light of a flickering candle? And suppose you had to cook your dinner in iron pots, over the coals in the fireplace? Could your great-grandmother have risen some morning to all of the comforts and conveniences you enjoy, could she have pushed a button for light and heat and power; would she not have made sure she had suddenly awakened in fairy land?
LET us not forget the supreme courage of our Pioneer ancestors. When the fire of hope burns low on our own hearth, let us recall the fires they built in the wilderness; and in memory of those fires, let us rise and sing, that we too, may forget the heartaches we have left behind. Remembering the household treasures that they abandoned, the long weary marches that they endured, the call of the lone wolf that awakened them in the night, and the charred graves that they left with-
KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST
out markers; remembering these things, let us rise to higher adventures and more masterful achievements.
LET not the pain of sorrow and loss and disappointment crush the joy out of our hearts, and the song out of our lives. The same Father who comforted and strengthened those Pioneers as they knelt in prayer circles out in the lone wastes, is ready to hear and heed our petitions; to renew and uplift us and prepare us to meet every emergency.
"The test of the heart is trouble, And it always comes with the years; And the smile that is worth the praise of the earth Is the smile that comes through tears." —Ella Wheeler Wilcox.
Abraham Lincoln said, "Folks are usually about as happy as they make up their minds to be." He kept a humorous book at hand in his desk, and when the troubles of state became too oppressive, he took out his book and read from it and indulged in a hearty laugh. When a strain becomes so intense it is nearing the breaking point, laughter will often save the situation. It has been said that Lincoln's sense of humor saved his sanity.
AFTER all, life is a mirror. A frowning, distressed countenance cannot reflect a smile. Echo brings back to our ears the same tone we send out to the world. Life does not weave chaplets of joy for the selected few, and veils of sorrow for the throngs of the underprivileged.
"In everybody's garden a little rain must fall, Or life's fairest, sweetest flowers wouldn't grow and bloom at all. And though the clouds hang heavy, so heavy, oh! My friend,
555
I'm sure that God, who sends the shower, will send the rainbow's end."
Sometimes the ones we love the best toss our treasures into the fire, or go stumbling about in our hearts, smashing our precious idols. Tears will not restore the loss. The greater wisdom would be to seek new treasures. Perhaps the very loss we have sustained will help us to choose more wisely the second time. Sometimes we learn through disappointment, that after all, we have been hoarding up false idols, mere counterfeits of real values. It is hard to begin again, after our most cherished patterns of life have been torn to bits. It is hard to come up smiling after defeat. But what doth it profit us to go on a grouch? Does not a "spell of blues" bring matters to a worse conclusion than a sane reaction would have done? Suppose the sun were to go on a grouch some morning and refuse to come up. But no! On through the centuries shines that never failing light, steadfast, dependable, forever the same. No matter how thick and black the clouds roll up, no matter how fierce the tempest breaks, after the storm is the calm; the sun stretches her glorious bow of promise across the sky and comes smiling through.
In every worthwhile picture there are shadows as well as highlights. And the plaintive minor key adds beauty to the sweetest song.
"Let no soul shrink from the bitter tonics Of grief and yearning and pain and strife; For the rarest chords in the soul's harmonies Are found in the minor strains of life." —Ella Wheeler Wilcox.
556
PAIN and sorrow and anguish of spirit must needs come to all. These are the lessons that purify and refine and make strong, the soul of man. "We develop the germs of truth and beauty that lie dormant within us," said Susa Young Gates, "through study and work and prayer and suffering."
"Think while thou sunnest thyself in Joy's estate, Mayhap thou canst not ripen without frost."
Are we missing all of the joys of today because we are brooding over the sorrows of yesterday? If we do not take advantage of today's opportunity will not tomorrow bring remorse for the loss of today? Do not break under the tragedy of "remembered too late." There is a quiet path that leads into the "land of beginning again." Never believe that the door of hope is eternally closed against you.
"Every day is a fresh beginning Listen, my soul, to the glad refrain, And, in spite of old sorrow, and older sinning, And puzzles forecasted, and possible pain, Take heart with the day and begin again." —Susan Coolidge.
Help yourself to happiness, the happiness that comes from loving and serving. Don't be afraid to give of your sweetness freely. God's love does not diminish because of his great giving. The fragrance of the rose does not go out to man in stinted portions. All of the sweetest gifts of life seem to grow from much giving. Are we locking our doors against opportunity? Let us fling it wide open. Let the lark's song come drifting in. Give the bluebird of happiness a chance to build his nest over our sunny window. There is a blessing from heaven waiting on our door-step every morning, if we will but open our eyes to see it. Oliver Wendell Holmes said, "Mirth is God's medicine." Let us administer a generous dose to our sick souls. Keep smiling. And when we are stowing away the worthwhile treasures, let us not forget that mirth is the magic talisman that insures the safety of our precious collection.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE