A Sense of Humor By Eleanor S. Muir
THE element of humor has an attractive peculiarity of its own, because it deals with a mystery which is pleasantly interwoven, with the daily life of each of us. It is an elusive thing, but its elusiveness gives it charm. We often say of one of our neighbors, "he has no sense of humor." We may congratulate some on having it. Secretively most of us are convinced we possess it in great abundance.
A sense of humor is difficult to define. We may say it is a refusal to take ourselves too seriously. Life and work should be taken seriously but not ourselves. It is a protection against ourselves and keeps us mentally sound by its wholesome appeal. It is a refusal to be overcome by petty annoyances and occurrences. It saves us from huffiness, murmurings and despair. Such things involve a wear and tear of nature's strength, whereas a sense of humor enables nature to recruit strength. Dr. Grayson, President Roosevelt's personal physician, when asked on a recent radio interview what general health advice he could offer to the nation's people said, "System, diet, exercise, sleep and a sense of humor." It might well be catalogued with the other senses as it enables us to see the other fellow's point of view; to overlook the slights and play the game square and to treat others as we would have them treat us. Only selfish, self-centered and emotionally immature people lack this quality. Humor is an antidote for egotism. The characters Charles Dickens makes fun of are egotists who have not enough humor to hide the overestimate of their own importance. An egotist is a comic person who has difficulty in seeing the comic element. No one believes he is wholly without a sense of humor because the gift is so precious. It flashes forth in times of trial and provides a means of kicking aside the obstructions. It keeps us busy in the joyful occupation of finding the good, enjoying the good, and passing the good along. Older folks are more charming and lovable when they possess this winsome characteristic. GREAT thinker has said, "God gave us laughter to save us from going mad." If the other fellow can be induced to laugh; if he has the ability to know when the joke is on him and the grace to laugh about it, we know there is life within him. Kenyon Wade tells the following experience. "An irate man undertook the huge task of reciting my faults to me in no uncertain manner. When he had finished he looked at me stubbornly, expecting me to be ina rage. Instead, I smiled at him and said: 'I thank you, sir, for your category of my faults, the catalogue of them is a good one, but the list is not complete, for there are so many faults you have left out!' “The man's sense of humor was touched and he broke out laughing. Far from losing his esteem I won him for a friend." Humor is valuable in putting people at ease and winning their good will. It provides a pivot on which to shift a delicate situation. Lincoln knew how to come to the rescue with his kindly humor. A gentleman from Ohio named Brand was interviewing A SENSE OF HUMOR President Lincoln. While they talked a regiment arrived outside the White House and Lincoln was called on for a speech. He asked Brand to accompany him and continued to hold him closely in conversation. But when they reached the portico and the regiment raised a cheer, an aide stepped up to Brand and told him to drop back a few steps. Quick as a flash, Lincoln said: "You see, 559 Mr. Brand, they might not know which was President.' A sense of humor takes the sting out of a caustic remark. It lessens the friction of an unpleasant contact. It has an excellent wearing quality and in general makes us easier to live with. Can you think of a single characteristic of human nature that would go farther toward stimulating cheerfulness?