Equality for Women By Blanche Kendall
AN incident happened in Chicago a long time ago when I was still a girl which opened my eyes for the first time to society's injustice to women. Certainly I had learned from a number of sources that I was living in a man's world, but I was not at all concerned. My father was a prince, my brothers, generous—it seemed natural and pleasant to have them manage everything. But on the particular afternoon to which I refer I stood in front of a home in Chicago when its mistress, a regal woman whose heavy grey hair was wound into a beautiful coiffure, turned in at her gate, smiling her greeting as she came up the walk to meet me. At the same time a man rounded a corner of the home pushing a lawnmower. He was small, with large bent shoulders and a weazened face.
"Does the lawn need cutting again, Jamsie?" asked my hostess. The small man doffed a worn cap, grinning in simple good humor. "Yes, marm," he replied. "'Er grows fast, 'er does." He bent to his task, which seemed to absorb all his powers of intellect.
Turning again to me, the lady explained that she had left her home for a few moments in order to vote. "To vote!" I exclaimed: "This isn't election day."
"It was a school election," my hostess replied. Then a great scorn crept into her strong face. "If it had been a real election," she explained, "I couldn't have cast a vote. I have studied economics and law, but I have no power of ballot, excepting in a school election." She looked at the small figure pushing the lawn-mower, head bent, jaw dropped tensely in sympathy with his task. "However," she continued, "Jamsie can vote." The man lifted dull eyes. "Yes, Marm. Hi be an American citizen; Hi can vote."
The indignity to womanhood swept over me, as I saw clearly and felt keenly that society should be divided into fit and unfit, not into male and female.
FREEDOM for woman has been a tragically slow process through the long years since the Dark Ages, and although perfect equality is still a dream, we have traveled a long upward path in the last one hundred years. The first annual convention for woman suffrage was held in Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848, but it took eighty years to convince all the states that women were entitled to cast an equal vote with men. In 1850 several states granted married women the right to control their own property, for prior to this time a married woman's property and her earnings, if she worked, belonged, according to law, to her husband. Her children, even, were not her own, for a man in his will could sign his minor heirs over to anyone he chose. Such monstrous laws seem indeed to belong to the Dark Ages rather than to the close of the nineteenth century. Let me repeat, we have traveled a long way!
THE following brief survey, compiled by the press department of the National League of Women
544
Voters, may help us to estimate the progress women have made in the field of practical politics since the federal suffrage amendment became effective in August of 1920. On June 30, 1932, women in civil service in America numbered 87,506. Eighteen women had been sent to the Congress of the United States. One hundred and thirty-two women are now serving as legislators of thirty-four states. Six women have passed the State Department examinations and have been assigned to foreign service. We have two women governors. Women are acting as Secretaries of State, State auditors, State treasurers, school superintendents, members of school boards, of State Health and Welfare departments, as members of State Departments of Labor, America has probate judges and juvenile court judges who are women in twelve large cities, while more women are holding office in counties than in any other unit of government. We have two women mayors of smaller cities. Two Ohio women have the distinction of holding the two highest judicial posts ever held by women. Miss Cline was appointed in 1928 Associate Judge of United States Customs Court with a salary of $10,000 and a life commission. Miss Allen was reelected in 1928 to a second term as member of the Supreme Court of Ohio. Her salary is $12,000.
Nor is it only in practical politics that women have gained a firm foothold. In the business world, in education, in creative fields woman has become a power. Indeed, when one surveys the field of letters in America today, recalling such names as Edna St. Vincent Millay, Willa Cather, Fannie Hurst, Edna Ferber, and other successful writers, one doesn't need to be a prophet to predict that the man of tomorrow in
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
American letters must needs look to his laurels.
ONE of the great forces that have helped to bring about the advancement of women is women's clubs and their federations. In the fields of education, politics, religion, business, social welfare we find women banded together in systematic study and elevating activity. Among other affiliations we have as potent influences changing the current of thought the National Federations of University Women, of Business and Professional Women, of Relief Societies, of political groups, the aims of these great organizations being, not merely to promote women's activities, but to bring about conditions which will assure a deeper insight into life and personal security for all, men and women alike. Clubs are urged to study not only national, but international affairs, that people's understanding of each other may deepen. Some modern writer, whose name I cannot recall, said that our world has become a neighborhood and it should be the task of this present generation to make it a brotherhood. The women's clubs of America are at least attempting to break down the barriers which cause misunderstanding, and consequently misery and trouble.
OF course there are still many occupational discriminations against women, and these have loomed more menacing since the depression. The fact that a woman is the head of a family is only too often given no consideration. Woman's scale of wages is much lower than man's, although she may do the same amount of work and perform it equally well. Also she may have the same number of dependents, or more. The class division should be
EQUALITY
in favor of heads of houses, not merely in favor of man because he is usually the head. We are still dwelling largely in a man-made world But the sun of tomorrow for woman was never before so bright. Never have we faced such a dawn. The pioneering has been accomplished. We who are born to freedom have no conception of the courage it took for women to step out from traditional shelter and assert themselves. You who dash off an article and without misgiving submit it for publication should read again of the struggles of the Bronte sisters and of George Eliot. When we cast a ballot at the polls, let us give a thought to Susan B. Anthony, Anna Shaw, and other brave women who gave us our precious, and sometimes unappreciated, heritage. We have grown into self-determining, self-supporting individuals, capable of living life deeply, purposefully, spiritually. It is for us to see that when this old sphere evolves gradually into a man and woman world it shall be a better,
FOR WOMEN
545
nobler, happier place in which to live. Angela Morgan gives us the following passionate, inspiring verse:
"To be alive in such an age! To live it! To give it! Rise, soul, from thy despairing knees. What if thy lips have drunk the lees? The passion of a larger claim Will put thy puny grief to shame. Fling forth thy sorrow to the wind And link thy hope with humankind; Breathe the world-thought, do the world-deed, Think hugely of thy brother's need. And what thy woe, and what thy weal? Look to the work the times reveal! Give thanks with all thy flaming heart, Glad but to have in it a part. Give thanks and clasp thy heritage— To be alive in such an age!"