Guides In Buying Textiles By Vilate Elliot IV Furs FUR, for so many centuries confined by royal decree to the wardrobes of the nobility, has become thoroughly democratic. Cheaper furs have been fashioned into stylish garments in abundance until almost every woman can afford a fur coat, jacket or scarf. But the most expensive furs have become scarce, hence the cheaper and poorer furs have been pressed into service to simulate them. The imitation is often so perfect that experts must use microscopes to be sure of their identification. Retail buyers, who are without the benefit of laboratory equipment, could avoid expensive mistakes when buying fur garments if they would learn the real name of the animal from which the pelt is taken and the relative wearing qualities of furs, instead of accepting blindly the tempting pseudonyms sometimes used in selling. "In 1928 the fur industry with the approval of the Federal Trade Commission adopted rules for naming furs which are adhered to by the more reputable dealers. These rules insist that the correct name of the animal must be used and if the fur has been dyed or otherwise processed, this fact must be included in the name as "'seal-dyed muskrat" "pointed fox." If the country of origin is indicated, it must be correct, as "Australian opossum." When the name of a country or place is used to designate a color, this too must be stated, as "Sithadyed fox." The common practice now in use in advertising furs is to place an asterisk after the trade name, giving the real name of the fur at the bottom of the page," If all furriers adhered strictly to these rules, the buyer's problems would be less complicated. Since many of them do not adhere to these rules it is important to deal only with reputable, well established furriers. One should be very wary of a bargain in furs—it is usually a bargain for the one selling the fur. He has lowered the price because of some defect which the customer is not able to detect. It may have been on hand for some time, the leather has begun to deteriorate, or it may be some cheaper fur masquerading un'der the name of its betters, but depend upon it a bargain in furs always has a reason back of it. Durability and price bear little re-, lation to each other, a chinchilla pelt worth several hundred dollars will not wear any better than a rabbit pelt worth fifty cents. White rabbit is made to resemble ermine or white fox but it is much less expensive, the scarcity of the animals and the demand help to set the price of any fur. The finest pelts are always taken in the winter, it is then when the fur is thickest and longest and best supplied with oil. The only exception is the muskrat, which is at its best in the spring. There are two sets of fur in almost any pelt, the short downy fur next to the skin; this is protected by the long guard hairs, which are coarser and glossy. There are a few furs as the beaver, seal and muskrat which are plucked of their guard hairs. I have already mentioned in this paper how cheaper furs may he made and sold as the more expensive kind, unless you know and can identify the fur and have some idea of its relative wearing qualities you are at the GUIDES IN BUYING TEXTILES mercy of the merchant, and again he may not be informed either, so we see the need of an honest label. The life of a fur may be lengthened by the care it receives. It must be stored either in moth proof bags or preferably with a furrier. In the winter it should be hung on a well padded hanger and given ample room in the closet. If a coat or fur becomes wet, shake it to remove as much water as you can, then hang it in a cool airy place where it may dry slowly, never place it near any kind of heat, you will dry out the skin and the natural oil causing it to become brittle. Every fur coat should be cleaned at least once a year by a competent furrier, it should be shaken lightly every time it is worn, if it is inclined to mat comb it with the flow of the fur. Friction of any kind will wear away the fur. For example carrying a purse or bag under the arm, where it constantly rubs, or a hat brim rubbing on the collar or overcrowding the pockets, in fact allowing any excess friction will cause the best of fur to wear. Motoring is the hardest wear any fur coat can receive because of the constant rubbing up and down and back and forth. If a coat or scarf has a greasy matted appearance moisten a soft clothes brush and brush it with the flow of the fur. Do not wet enough to soak the leather. Never place a coat in the sun for long periods as the sun tends to bleach the fur. HOOSIERY HE deceptions practiced on the purchaser in buying silk hosiery are due in part to her own indifference and her willingness to take what is offered her provided the price is right." Then silk stockings are very deceiving. 561 "According to an article in the Textile World, April 28, 1928, entitled "Who knows her Hose," "'so remarkable has become the refinement in the making of synthetic textiles that probably not one housewife in ten can tell, today, from the feel or appearance, whether the hose she is about to buy is of real silk or something else. The recent test, conducted by the Knitting Arts Exhibition in Philadelphia, by the American Bemberg Corporation, produced extraordinary findings along these lines. At the Bemberg booth were displayed ten stockings, five of cocoon silk and five of Bemberg yarn. Visitors were asked to distinguish them. Of all who tested the ten pairs of stockings, only 2% picked all the stockings correctly. The others' figures were: 7.6% failed to distinguish any difference between the silk and Bemberg, 24% picked one right in ten, 22% picked two right, 20% picked three right and 24.4% picked four out of ten." (Taken from Standardization of Consumers' Goods by Coles.) The shopper should have in mind two qualifications when she buys a pair of hose: serviceability and appearance: unfortunately in today's fashion these two qualifications are not always found in the same pair of hose, the wheel of fashion does not turn that way. It usually turns in favor of the producer and as the merchant would say promotes spending. When it was the vogue to wear high top shoes and heavy silk stockings, style did combine happily with serviceability. But the producer was not selling enough hose. New fashions must be introduced to increase the demand of hosiery so the shoes went down and the dresses went up and up and up and that long space between low shoes and abbreviated dresses became very conspicuous, the producers and the merchants 562 were very enthusiastic over this change in style, it meant great demand and increased sales everywhere, it also meant exceedingly sheer hose, very fine, transparent and lacy hose which could demand the highest price without any thought to serviceability. These sheer hose may last a day or at most two or three wearings without runs. Semiservice hose are usually cheaper, they wear better, but as long as the mode decrees otherwise many of us will hold to chiffon hosiery and the hose problem will go on being a very important item in the clothing budget. Especially is this true where there are two or three girls of high school or college age in the family. Mother can never find enough stockings to go around. But dame fashion is very pressing in her demands we feel we must conform. From the ten year old school girl to the dearest and oldest grandmother a pair of sheer silk hose is most pleasing. Important elements in determining the quality of hosiery are fashioning, number of silk strands in the yarn, amount and kind of twist in the yarn, gauge, elasticity, reinforcements, methods of finishing, length and size, and absence of defects. Full fashioned hose are knit flat on many needles and sewed together down the back and along the bottom of the foot to the toe. Shaping is done by dropping (about five stitches) just below the hem, and below the calf of the leg (about 25 or 30 stitches). There should be a wide hem (about four inches) and one or two rows of lock stitch below the garter top to prevent a run. A cheaper type of hosiery is tubular knit. They are placed over forms and thoroughly steamed to shape them, however, this shaping does not always last. A mock seam is placed at the back, small dots are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE placed below the calf to give them the appearance of full fashioned hose. For women or girls whose ankle is not too slender these hose are very practical for everyday wear. For the number of strands in the yarn is very important, three or four strands are usually used in sheer hosiery, this is not practical and such hose are very apt to have runs at the first wearing, five or six strands are much more satisfactory. By the gauge we mean the number of needles per inch and a half on the knitting machine, the finer the yarn the higher the gauge. Strength is sacrificed to appearances in the higher gauges. Forty-five gauge is considered the border line between wear and appearance. Elasticity is determined by gauge, quality of silk and the number of courses or stitches in the stocking. Unless a stocking is elastic at the top and the instep it will not wear well and runs will develop easily. Competition has induced some manufacturers to reduce the number of courses and skimp on the gauge, such hose are not elastic. Reinforcement should come in the wide hem at the top, heel, toe and sole. Stockings should be purchased at least one-half inch longer than the foot; they are steamed and stretched in finishing and will shrink to the original size when washed. Merchants tell me they cannot sell hose marked in the larger sizes—this is false pride and should be overcome. Rubbing the hose with paraffin wax on the places most easily worn tends to strengthen those parts. Then, too, one may reinforce those parts by darning with long stitches on the wrong side which is very helpful. Another help is leather hose protectors, purchased at most good shoe stores, and are used by many people. They are very good and do add to the life of the hose.