Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon Butterflies, a lark's song, cherry blossoms, hyacinths, a humming bird in the coral honeysuckle, symbols of gladness and a happy world telling fragrant May and hope are here. The six women in the House of Representatives have played a remarkably well-poised role during this turbulent session. Mrs. Kahn of California, astute and well-informed, has introduced the "Materials Bill,' making mandatory the use of only Americanproduced goods wherever possible in all government departments. Mrs. Edith Nourse Rogers of Massachusetts, who has held the chairmanship of the Veteran's Hospital Committee, has introduced three bills carrying large appropriations for the hospitals. Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen of Florida, is working for a new post in the President's cabinet, heading a department for home and child. Mrs. Mary T. Norton of New Jersey, Effigene Wingo of Arkansas, and Ruth Baker Pratt of New York, have all been equally forward looking. Princess Elizabeth, daughter of the Duke of York, the criterion in children's fashions, has affected a deep primrose shade for spring and summer wear. The color is called Princess Elizabeth yellow. Three of the world's most famous women have recently been receiving hospital treatment. Madam Marie Curie, for an injury received from a fall in her laboratory, Madam Schumann Heink and Helen Keller for severe illness. Madam Woronoff, born Countess Olga Kleinmichel of Russia, has published a book of memories entitled "Upheaval" of which Booth Tarkington writes, "it is alive, revealing and readable." Ann Bridge, an Englishwoman, has received the Atlantic Monthly $10,000 prize for her novel, "Peking Picnics," an unusual story of legation life in China. 750 manuscripts were submitted. Julia Mood Peterkin has written another novel of the Gullah Negroes called "Skin Bright," as accurate and vivid as "Scarlet Sister Mary" played by Ethel Barrymore. The cinema people are already dickering for the rights to the new story. Dr. Maria Ehrenstein of Vienna, said to be one of the most beautiful women in the world claims woman's duty to humanity is not merely to be charming, but helpful. Frau Dr. Maria Munk of Berlin is president of the German Federation of Professional and Business Women. The organization was founded after the International Conference in Vienna last summer. French women have again been denied suffrage by the chamber of deputies. They had great hope this year, but in the final vote in the senate lost out. They have been waging their battle for equal rights for 30 years. Mount Ida, Arkansas, and Duvall, Washington, have a complete city government of women. Both towns believe the law is enforced better under the management of women.