Grow Dahlias This Year By Maud Chegwidden Every flower garden should have its row of dahlias, for I know of no plant which gives a greater display of tall, upstanding flowers for so long a time as does the dahlia, in return for such a small outlay of time and trouble. Years ago, the popular type of dahlia was the tight-petaled, rosettelike flower, almost artificial in its primness, which we call the show type. Nowadays the cactus, decorative and hybrid-cactus types are most in demand; these give enormous flowers, as far removed from the show type as that was from the single flower originally discovered in Mexico by the botanist Dahl, from whom the flowers were named. Dahlias are usually grown from tubers, planted outdoors in May or early June. The young shoots are very tender, so you must be careful that you don't plant out the roots while there is still danger of frost in your vicinity. GROW DAHLIAS THIS YEAR Every tuber purchased from a reliable firm will have its tiny, pinkish sprout from which the current year's flowers will eventually come. The tuber should be planted horizontally, about six inches deep, in soil which has previously been well spaded, pulverized and fertilized with very old manure. If you live in town and so find it difficult to get stable refuse, a handful of bonemeal placed beneath the tuber but not in direct contact with it, will serve excellently. Bonemeal may also be raked into the soil on top. It is the best plan to plant a four or five foot stake along with the tuber, directly behind the eye, for your dahlia will grow very tall and its brittle stem will be easily broken by a strong wind. Thrusting the stake into the ground after growth has commenced is dangerous, since it would be liable to injure the root. Beware of tying the stem too tightly, or with too fine string, to the stake. A piece of soft rag, inconspicuous in color, is better than wrapping twine which amateurs generally use. After proper planting, there is little to do beyond waiting for the dahlia to grow. Cultivation helps wonderfully, and plenty of water is needed especially at blooming time. Many gardeners pinch out the tops of the shoots to make a wellbranched and stockier plant. Then later when the flower buds form, they remove every bud except the terminal one. This, of course, gives you fewer flowers but the ones which do develop attain mammoth proportions. However, for ordinary garden decoration, I allow all my buds to develop for I love dahlias and want plenty of blossoms. 269 It is when these marvelously lovely flowers appear, in every color and every shade, towering above one's head, that you are thankful that you planted the bulbs. All through the late summer and fall, until frost blackens the mighty stems and foliage, the dahlia row will enchant you. One may pay almost any price for a tuber. The real "fans" think nothing of paying $10 for a single tuber of some new and fine variety, but for ordinary garden use inexpensive ones are just as pretty and give many more times their value in loveliness. Tubers at fifty cents, or even less, will give a rich harvest of flowers, and will multiply into many more for the next season, Personally, I have several times bought bargains at the five-and-ten which produced splendid results. One in particular I remember. It was rather late in the season and the dahlias were being cleared out at six for twenty-five cents. Choosing firm, plump tubers, each with an eye, I planted them and waited for results. Two proved to be identical, giving clear yellow, very large flowers of the decorative type; one had cerise flowers of the same form; another was a show type flower, blood red and very prolific; the last two, also identical, were plainly Mrs. I. De Ver Warner dahlias, an exquisite mauve which is sold at from fifty cents to a dollar for one tuber. Yet I got all this for a quarter! The show type is one of the best for cut flower purposes, and of those I have grown my favorite is A. D. Livoni, a very good shade of pink. The pompon dahlias, those little darlings which rarely have flowers 270 bigger than a dollar, should be well represented in your row. Everybody who sees them loves them, and they make beautiful, lasting bouquets. Last September I carried a basket of Amber Queen, one of the prettiest pompons, to a public office in town, and later I was told that many people had asked what kind of flowers they were, not knowing of this type of dahlia. Besides Amber Queen, I recommend Little Jennie, a primrose. Yellow; Snowclad, pure white; Little Beauty, pink: Darkest of All, maroon, and Fashion, a dainty orange. The cactus dahlias are strange looking things with rolled, quill-like petals which are very artistic. The one I like best, although it is terribly hard to make a decision, is Countess of Lonsdale, a salmon pink with deeper shadings, and a reliable bloomer. The Countess may be purchased for only twenty-five cents! Other good cactus flowered dahlias include Gladys Sherwood, snow white; Cigarette, scarlet and white; and F. W. Fellows, orange and terra cotta. There is endless material to choose from in the decorative type dahlia. All colors and combinations and all sizes are here, some, as I have said, being of mammoth proportions that always make me think of the fat lady in the circus. Mrs. I. De Ver Warner, already mentioned, is charming. Another favorite of mine is Jersey's Beauty, a fine, true pink. Judge Marean is an old but lovely combination of golden orange and salmon pink; Champagne is just the color of that forbidden wine, and Pride of California is a rich, glowing red. If you become possessed of but one of these tubers here mentioned, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE all of which are inexpensive, you will certainly want to add to your stock another year. Persuade friends and neighbors to get different varieties, and next spring you will be able to exchange your surplus divisions, for one of the many beauties of this wonderful flower is its constant multiplication. Dahlia tubers must be kept over winter in a frost proof cellar in the same manner that potatoes are kept. Packing them in boxes of dry sand has been found to be an ideal way of preventing their shrivelling, and I have heard of amateur gardeners also keeping them in sawdust or ordinary ashes from the furnace. Guard against dampness causing them to rot. I usually look at mine once or twice during the winter, since too dry or too damp conditions may then be remedied before the damage is great. In digging, a few days after the killing frost, be careful that you do not break the necks attaching the tubers to the stem. They are extremely brittle at first. Also, you will be surprised at the size of the clump produced by a single tuber, if this is your first experience. You must dig deep, to get the whole roots without lopping off part of them! I do hope that you will buy a few dahlia roots this spring. You will never be without them in your garden in the future, I know, and by exchanging extra tubers another year with other dahlia lovers, you will be able to gather together a fine collection at the minimum cost. But beware, lest the dahlia passion gets the better of you, and you become tempted to feed your family all winter on beans, that you may expend the amount so saved in ten dollar tubers |