Mother By Nephi Jensen The sweetest smile we've ever seen Lingered at the golden eventide On that fair face, kind and serene That watched at the cradleside. The dearest song we've ever heard Lulled us to our first rest, Haunted us when we had erred, And inspired us to do our best. The kindest heart that ever beat Was ever sad when we were sad; Bore the brunt of our first defeat And was so glad when we were glad. The noblest deed that has been done Was wrought in the unending day By her who served in storm and sun, And gently kissed our tears away. Stakes California................... 1,762 Canada........................ 1,340 Colorado...................... 467 Idaho......................... 8,336 Mexico........................ 179 Nevada........................ 709 Oregon........................ 221 Wyoming....................... 2,105 Missions Canada....................... 134 Europe........................ 4,690 Hawaii........................ 1,010 Mexico........................ 215 New Zealand................... 607 Samoa ........................ 267 South Africa.................. 129 Tonga......................... 130 Relief Society Conference Held April 6 and 7, 1932 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary The Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held April 6 and 7, 1932, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison presided. The following sessions were held: an Officers' Meeting for general, stake and mission officers; two General Sessions, in the Tabernacle; six Department Meetings; and a reception for Stake Officers. The Department Meetings featured were: Social Service Case Work Department, Work and Business Department, Social Service Lesson Department, Literary Department, Visiting Teacher Class Leaders' Department, and Theological Department. They began at 8:30 a. M., and continued until 5 p. M., on Thursday, April 7th. As no two were held simultaneously, the Relief Society women were enabled to attend all the sessions, which proved to be most satisfactory. This was evidenced by the large groups at each department. There was a large attendance of enthusiastic workers from 98 stakes and 7 missions. The Officers' Roll Call at the Officers' Meeting showed the following representation: 21 General Board Members; 542 Stake and Mission Officers, including: Stake Presidents, 74; Counselors, 117; Secretary-treasurers, 48; Other Board Members, 296; Mission Presidents, 7. The Tabernacle was well filled at the two General Sessions on April 6th. The evening session was an innovation, but very delightful. The Relief Society was most appreciative of the rare opportunity of holding Conference on the anniversary of the organization of the Church. The music for the Conference was outstanding. The chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, led the congregational numbers. Special solos were rendered by Mrs. Margaret Stewart Hewlett, and duets by Cannon Lund and Jessie Evans. The work of the Relief Society chorus will long be remembered. The high degree of artistry reached by this group of 200 women, was eloquent of the time and effort given in preparation. The voices were drawn from the six Salt Lake City stakes. The local groups practiced for months on the songs selected, and were then assembled in the final chorus under the very able leadership of Mrs. Charlotte Owen Sackett, who manifested the poise and skill of a great chorister. A most interesting and educational feature of the Conference was the display in the Brigham Young Memorial Building of the work done at the Work and Business Meetings of the four Weber County Stakes, Ogden, Mount Ogden, North Weber and Weber. There was almost every kind of article one could think of, from the remodeled clothing to the most exquisite art creations. The quilts in themselves were a most wonderful exhibit. Salt Lake and Liberty stakes gave some interesting demonstrations of painting and hand-craft. Mrs. Marie Lederman was in attendance at her rooms in the Lion House, and gave instructions to class leaders in fine needlework and household arts. Many lovely things made under her direction were shown. A very pleasant service was rendered in the reception room pro278 vided for the conference visitors in the Brigham Young Memorial Building. The reception to Stake Officers, held on the evening of April 7, in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, was one of the most sucRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cessful social functions ever sponsored by the General Board. The committee, under the chairmanship of Mrs. Emma A. Empey, spared no pains in making the event delightful. Officers' Meeting Wednesday Morning, April 6th, 1932 PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON There are so many marvelous things that you sisters have done during this last year that I do not believe I could control myself if I tried to tell you how we appreciate and love you for the service. We have made many demands of you from the office. Problems in your own localities have been so heavy, but in every instance you have come to the front, and done more than was expected of you. We asked the four stakes in Weber County if they would give us a display of handwork taught in their Work and Business Meetings. The splendid response to this request is in evidence in the wonderful exhibition in the Brigham Young Memorial Building. I want to tell you how we appreciated your activity in the signature campaign for the National Council of Women?it has been marvelous. One of the mission presidents wrote: "My wife is away in California, visiting with her daughter, but if you will send the petitions we will take care of them in her absence," which he has done. In every stake there have been such splendid results. We should like, at this point, to call special attention to the group of very fine speakers of national reputation, who will be here on April 13 and 14, in the interest of the 18th Amendment. They are known as The Allied Campaigners, and are led by Dr. Daniel H. Poling: The efforts of this group have the hearty approval of President Grant, and we bespeak the interest of our Relief Society women in making their work successful here. We are asked to circulate and sign a pledge. It does not entail any financial responsibility. It merely voices our belief that liquor should be abolished. We have had a very few changes this year in our stake officers. We are most grateful for this, as we are so happy to greet anew you sweet sisters who have worked long and untiringly. It always gives us joy to meet new sisters in the group. The following are the reorganizations we have to report: December, 1931, Gunnison Stake, Amelia A. Larson, released; Clarice J. Larson, appointed president. January, 1932, Tintic Stake, Elizabeth Boswell, released; Vera Patten, appointed president. March, 1932, Benson Stake, Effie A. Greene, released; Ethel B. Webb appointed president. British Mission, Josephine B. Lund, released; Mrs. Douglas, appointed president. We have had a very fine letter from Sister Widtsoe, of the European Mission, sending greetings from the European sisters. She sent us "The Millennial Star," printed in French, Dutch and Scandinavian. These contained full and beautiful messages from the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE The European Mission has a wonderful record. The report shows that of the women membership of the Church, 53% are in attendance at Relief Society meetings. Some of them reach as high as 73% but the average is 53 6/10ths?a very wonderful showing. We have been most delighted in the response the sisters have made in sending in subscriptions to the Magazine. A number of our wards have reached 100% or more, some of these in the smaller settlements, with very limited resources. One report shows a membership of 19, with 22 subscriptions, another a membership of 45 with 52 subscriptions. There are a number, too, who have 75% of their members who are subscribers for the Magazine. This is very fine, and we know it is the efforts of the women who have accomplished it. We would like to say a word about sending in material for the Magazine. Some little things come into the office which must have been just ideal for the time they were written, but the interest is purely local. It just about breaks the heart of the editor not to accept these things, but they have no general interest. Sometimes we have little histories of some of our splendid women who have given such faithful service, but when the little sketch comes in to us, it is incomplete. It does not give the thing you wanted to tell, the things you loved about her, you have rather felt that we knew these lovely things. Our Magazine space is limited, and we cannot publish all of the little biographical sketches that we would like. Every stake and ward president should see that her secretary has the history of the organization in the record book, In some places this 279 is magnificent. There are also collected volumes of biographical sketches of the women who have held positions in Relief Society. This is most valuable, and although they cannot be put in our record book, do preserve these sketches so rich in experience. I believe the thing that has the strongest appeal to us now is our charity work. We have had an experience this last year which I believe we have never had before. Whether we will have another one next winter, is for the future to tell, but we must be prepared to meet the situation when it comes. Before the stakes sent their aids here for training, we advised the wards to have aids as they seemed to need them. In some places the ward aid was selected before we really knew what her duty should be. Some ward aids are so capable and fine that the president of Relief Society could hardly carry the responsibility without her. If you have such a ward aid, keep her, but if you have one whom you selected, and you find that she is not just the kind of woman for this place, and she could do better work elsewhere, release her. I would like to have you feel in our organization that we all want to work in the place we can do the most good. There are some of our ward aids who are taking all of the responsibility away from the ward presidents. This is all wrong, and we would like you stake Relief Society presidents to see that the ward presidents understand that they are the head of the ward Relief Society, and that the ward aids are their aid, their help. The ward aids should only come to help, to do the errands, and make the investigations for them, and the contact with the Bishop must be made through the ward president. In some of our 280 wards these aids, who are very lovely women, but do not understand their place, go to the bishop, and the bishop and the ward aid. Carry the whole responsibility. In some cases we have asked the ward presidents what they were doing in charity, and they knew nothing about it. They said that was taken care of by the ward aid and the bishop. Now if the ward president is not able to carry this, it is a matter for you and the bishops and the stake president to decide. We do not want our ward presidents to be too heavily burdened. The conditions are a little different in the city stakes and in the country stakes. The problems are different, and sometimes in the urban stakes the ward president requires help, and in others she can carry on without the help of an aid; if she can, that is the ideal condition, but keep your good ward aids if you feel that you really need them. Oftentimes our presidents will say we have teachers, or we have aids, or we have class leaders who are not doing what they should do, what shall we do about it? It is a big responsibility, but I believe it is one that we all have to face. In the Book of Mormon you will find that the Lord says "It is better for one man to perish than that a whole nation dwindle in unbelief." I believe it is better for one woman to be removed from a place where she is not doing the work, as it should be done, than it is for the organization to be hampered. I would beg of you, though, that you use the greatest love and tenderness, because some of these fine women, who really are feeling that they are doing the biggest things, are the ones that we would like to have put into another position. Let us all feel that we want to work where we can do the most good. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In the bicentennial planting of trees?women have done so beautifully all over the Church, and we want to commend you for this. I hope that your trees are all growing. We shall be interested when we visit around in the different stakes, to see the Relief Society trees, and hope they are flourishing. We have been asked to speak again on patronizing home industry. We asked last fall that the stakes outside of Utah, Idaho for instance, would find out what Idaho produces, and as far as possible support the Idaho industries, and the same with the different states. We hope you are carrying this into the home. The women are the purchasers in most of the homes, so encourage them to ask for the home products. I believe the thing that. Is troubling most of our women is the Annual Dues. We have had so many pathetic letters from our stake presidents in reference to this. Now, sisters, we cannot lower our standards, we must still say that the Annual Due is fifty cents, but where conditions arise such as one that was reported to me yesterday, where a ward had deposited all its annual dues in the bank, and the bank failed, how can you go back to these women and ask for them again? In so many localities the stake and ward funds were in the banks that have failed, and they cannot make the difference up. Let us try to stimulate our women to keep to the standard of fifty cents, but stake officers carry this message to the ward officers, do not worry your hearts out because you cannot send in the 100%. I do not know just how long the General Board can carry things, but we can adjust as well as you can, so get as much as you feel you can, and hold your standards high, but do not worry because you have not your 100%. There are RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE some of us, I believe, as some business firms, who take advantage of situations. I think some of the business firms are discharging help just because they can get behind this thought of depression. We do not want this in Relief Society, we want every woman to feel the privilege of carrying her burden of the expense, but when you know conditions, do not worry about it. Let these ward presidents know that we do not expect the impossible of them. Carry a message of love back. We had word from one of our stakes that some of the dear sisters said they would like their names taken from the record book because they could not pay their Annual Dues, 281 and they did not want to be carried as charity. Do not let the sisters leave. At this time we need the sisters, and they need Relief Society, and if it is not possible for them to pay, love them just a bit harder, and let them feel more at home in the organization than ever. I believe, as I said before, that this is a time when we are all having our hearts touched, if it is not individually, it is our family, or our neighbors, and I believe the Relief Society is lifting this load, and let us not in any way allow our faithful women to feel that they are not the most welcome, even if they are not paying their Annual Dues. MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary It gives me great pleasure this morning, sisters, to give a brief summary of the Annual Report, which will be published in detail in the May Magazine. As President Robison has indicated, from every stake and every mission in the 'Church, we have had splendid cooperation this year in the Relief Society work, whether it has been in the planting of trees, the conservation of food and clothing, or the most 'perfect attention paid to the detail in the secretaries' work. And may I take this opportunity of expressing the very deep appreciation which the general office feels for the splendid work of the secretaries of our: Relief Society. They have done marvelously fine work this year. Each year the number of perfect reports increases. With very few exceptions the errors that were made in the compiling of the stake and mission reports this year were very minor, showing that everywhere our sisters are keenly alive to this important work, and are meeting it with splendid results. The following is a summarized statement of the Annual Report for 1931: Total Balance on 'Hand, January 1, 1931, $166,379.07; Total Receipts during 1931, $274,061.50; Total Balance on Hand and Receipts, $440,440. 57; Paid for Charitable Purposes, $116,448.17; Total Disbursements, $287,244.35; Total Balance, December 31, 1931, $153,196.22; Total Assets, $1,034,312.61; Ward Conferences held, 1,280; Teachers Visits made, 836,778; Visits to Sick and Homebound, 204,460. Membership in 1930, 64,225; in 1931, 66,884, an increase of 2,659. The membership includes, Executive and Special Officers, 11,047; Visiting: Teachers, 23,003; members, 32,834. Average attendance, 1930, 24,521; in 1931, 27,234, an increase of 2,713. Paid for Charitable Purposes in 1930, $109,493.19; in 1931, $116,448.17, an increase of $6,954.98. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MRS. LOTTA PAUL BAXTER General Board Member A YEAR ago a friend, a helper, was issued from the press for the benefit of the workers of the Relief Society, and for those who loved the work. This little book, very unpretentious, we called The Handbook of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is a most unique publication. It is divided into three parts. The first part tells of the organization in Nauvoo, and the earliest history of the Relief Society. In this division there is also the activities and our world work, the big things that we do sometimes in connection with other organizations. It tells a marvelous story, covering a period of 90 years of our activities, very fascinating to read, and it furnishes you with all the historical facts that you need for your annual day celebration. In this first part, or just following it, is a wonderful list of all of the Nauvoo enrollment. This is a very interesting and unique feature, and I believe that many of you will be delighted to find out, when you get your book, if a relative of yours was one of the Nauvoo members of the Relief Society. The second part contains short biographies of the seven presidents, and the third contains all of the rulings, methods of procedure, organization exactly how to conduct the Relief Society organization, the regular procedure of the meetings, and everything that any new member of the organization needs to know. I want to say just a word about this work. It was not compiled in a few months. Minutes of ninety years had to be gone over, so that nothing of importance should be missed. ' I do not know how many copies we have, but I do hope there are enough for every one of you to have one. It is in two bindings, cloth for 85c and paper for 60c. I hope you will avail yourselves of this rare opportunity to get this, one of the most unique histories of any woman's organization that has ever existed. The second part?the biographies of our beloved presidents. I wonder how much love and admiration must have been in the heart of the writer to have filled these biographies to overflowing with love. As you read them you feel that you are in the presence of wonderful women, and that your life is enriched through ? having been acquainted with them. Surely the finger of God selected these women. Their beautiful lives are told in beautiful language, and they are so short that you can memorize them easily. The work is a tribute to Sister Cannon that can hardly be surpassed. In regard to Sister Lyman's work, how she did it I do not understand. It is 'beautiful, comprehensive, covering every phase of Relief Society work,. I lovingly call it "The Little Book," and "My Faithful Friend," and it is both. COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN WELVE years ago we held our first social service institute, with 63 representatives from 63 stakes. Possibly today of 'that group there RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are only about 6 who are working in the Relief Society. I have counted four here this morning who were in that first class. Due to the great turnover which this indicates, it has been necessary for us to repeat these institutes frequently, which we have been doing all along these twelve years. Two years ago we decided to cover the 'Church again with institutes, by having 25 workers called in at a time. We have held three to date, with 71 representatives. This means that 71 stakes have 'been represented, while 33 stakes have not, as yet, sent delegates. We had expected to have another institute early this year, but due to the depression and the unemployment situation, we felt that it was probably a wise thing to postpone it for a time. The object of these institutes is to help us in our fundamental work, charity and health work. We feel that very marvelous results have already followed the workers who have taken this course. We have tried to describe the type of worker who should be sent to take the course, leaving it to the stakes to choose their own representative. In some instances women have been sent who were not able to do the work after they went home, due to other duties or to illness. There is also another thing that we have regretted in connection with this, and that is that in many instances the workers have not been used after they have gone home.; This has been true of every institute we have held, so we thought we would discuss the work a little this morning. I believe that other agencies have been as interested in our workers as we have ourselves, and in some instances even more. In some instances, where the Relief Society 283 stake presidency and board have not used the social service aid, the Red Cross, and other organizations, have been glad to use her. I think it is probably because the Relief Society has not understood exactly the training that the workers have had. The course of study which we have given these aids has consisted of sociology the study of human relations, which is the foundation for all social work; case work methods, with emphasis upon those fundamental principles underlying case work; lectures in health, mental hygiene, child welfare, social legislation; and a definite amount of required reading. In our field work the students have visited social institutions in Utah, and have been required to do a certain amount of family case work under supervision in the Welfare Department. At the close of the institute we gave each worker a copy of the instructions which had 'been sent to the stake presidents, as follows: 1. That the, stake worker who completes the Social Service Institute be designated as Social Service Aid, ' 2. That the Social Service Aid devote herself exclusively to social work, giving up all other positions in the auxiliaries. Some workers have said they did not know they would have-to give up other work or they would not have come. This is one of the provisions, because if these workers are to be really helpful in their communities, they will have to give up other things, particularly where they are used. 3. That her duties shall be: (a) To assist ward presidents or other ward workers with family problems such as making investigations, weighing information and facts, making budgets, and deciding 284 on general plans for needy families. (Note: Actual assistance in any case is to be given only upon request of the ward; in other words, any report as to need in any family should be referred to ward president, and method of procedure worked out with her.) The stake officers should not take up family work in the ward, and put in relief, without the knowledge of the ward president and the bishop. We had a question just recently on that point. It is not fair to the wards for the stake social service aid, or the stake president to go into the wards and put in relief without the knowledge of the ward presidency. (b) To give, from time to time, special instructions on family case work methods to ward presidents at union meeting. (Note: Actual local cases must not be discussed in union meeting, but privately with the ward president concerned. ) We have heard of some instances where actual cases have been discussed in Union Meeting, and we are very much opposed to that, and advise against it. (c) To make it a part of her work and duty to become acquainted with her community, and with state, county, and local resources; also with local officials and heads of community agencies, explaining the cooperation the Relief Society is prepared to give. (Note: in case of complicated situations, the stake Social Service Aid may, if she desires, consult the Welfare Department at Relief Society headquarters. ) (d) To assist ward presidents in contacting county officials and other social agencies. We also tell these social service aids that we want them to study the history and background of the Relief Society. We require them to read RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the handbook from cover to cover, in order to get the spirit of the work, and its complete detail. We want them to learn about the social legislation in their state; then to know about the county work, the county resources and its provisions for caring for the poor. We ask such questions as this: Has your county qualified for the mothers' pensions? We want them to look into all these things. We want them to study their county resources. We have a little book which we use in the institute, "What Social Service Workers 'Should Know About Their Own Communities." I think you would all be surprised to know the number of resources that you do have in your counties. We have asked these stake aids to make a survey of such. We have also asked them to read everything they can get regarding social work. We have also given instructions on a type of registration. We suggested also that the Relief Society stake presidency arrange for the holding of conferences with the stake board and bishops and stake aid, to discuss the work. We have found out that in some instances this has not been done. It is suggested that a magazine called "The Family," be provided for the Social Service Aid; also "The Survey," if you can afford to have both. In urban stakes, like Salt Lake City and Ogden, we have a little different plan. In Salt Lake City we have the Welfare Department, which is a means of contacting the county, but in the rural districts where there are several stakes in a county, we have suggested that these stake aids get together and formulate some standards for requests of the county commissioners, so the requests will be more uniform. If a county had three stakes in it, the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE stake aid who talked hardest and went continually to the county commissioner, might get more relief than the other two stakes. That is why, in Salt Lake County, the contact with the County is made through the Welfare Department. We have told our stake aids, if they come across any problems which they cannot solve, to write to our Welfare Department, and we will do our best to help them. The question often arises as to 285 whether or not the stake social service aid should also be the stake class leader in the social service department. Our answer in the past has been that this might be temporarily allowed pending the training and preparation of such aid for charity work; but as we have already indicated, as soon as she has had her institute training, she should devote herself exclusively thereafter to social service work. MRS. JOSEPHINE B. LUND Former President?British Mission Relief Society We have a complete organization in our mission, with president, counselors, class leaders, secretaries, and supervisors of different work. The branches of Relief Society in the British Mission in 1930 were 58; 1931, 68; the membership in 1930, 648; 1931, 714; meetings held in 1930, 1,891; 1931, 2,377; number of visits made by the visiting teachers in 1930, 2,290; 1931, 3,010; number of families helped in 1930, 550; 1931, 572; special visits made to the sick and homebound in 1930, 2,757; 1931, 4,242. You can readily see that the work in the British Mission is growing, which I am very happy to say. We are proud of the manual of the British Mission. The title of it is, "The Value of Life Here and Hereafter." In lesson work we try to follow the schedule of meetings we have here at home. Human Welfare is the subject of our Social Service, a wonderful study, teaching the women how to raise their children, and what kinds of homes to have. That is what the women need. We have our funds, just the same as we have here, and they are used for charity and general purposes. We have a slogan, which is "We stand for a more sincere sisterly love through application of the Savior's parables and teachings,' and that slogan has done a world of good to the sisters of the mission. There are very few L. D. S. Halls in the mission. It is too bad that we cannot own more. Where we do own our halls we have our meetings held weekly, and no one can interfere with us. We have to pay a tremendous amount for rented halls, and oftentimes they are on the fourth or fifth story, and sometimes next to a public house, or saloon. In that way we are handicapped for meeting places, but when we do own our own halls, on Work and Business day these dear good sisters will clean them, making them just as spick and span as they possibly can be. The Saints are so proud of their own meeting places?though they have not wonderful buildings like we have here, because the people there are very poor. We hold our conferences twice each year. Instructions are given on the work, and in return the sisters have reported the conditions of the Relief Society, and its needs in the different branches. They have been very wonderful meetings, 286 resulting in much good. We have exchanged ideas, and after the presidents have spoken of their hopes and ideals, they have borne their testimonies. I have seen these dear sisters say just a few words, but, oh, they have the spirit of the Lord with them! Sister Widtsoe told each of the presidents to introduce the Annual Dues in the missions. It was very hard to get our dues in, but we asked the women for a shilling a year. We told them to have a little social, and charge a few pennies, and in that way they are enabled to pay their dues. The presidents have been asked to write a history of the mission. These sketches were sent to the office, and placed in a large record book to be kept in the mission. Any time the history can be consulted, and shows what the different Relief Societies have done. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The handbook has been a Godsend to the missions, and the presidents have gained a great deal of good out of that wonderful little book. Twenty-four copies were sold in our mission field?the handbook is not very old. The condition of women's work in the mission is improving, and they only need a little encouragement. I hope and pray that our Relief Society will go on progressing; that we will climb that ladder until we attain the top; that we will go on progressing, doing all we can for the poor and the sick and the needy. Working in the Relief Society develops a personality greatly. It makes one less selfish and more sympathetic for those who are suffering from different causes. I have a great love in my heart for the English people, they are a mighty fine people. When I say English people, I mean also the Scotch and Irish. May God bless you all. General Session Tabernacle, Wednesday Afternoon, April 6, 1932 PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON During the roll call this morning, I looked into the faces of you dear sisters, who carry such a load. It seems not so long now, in looking back, to the time when we were here last October, and were facing winter. There was so much unemployment, and we wondered if we could care for those under our direction. Now we have come here on this beautiful day, and it seems that our Father in Heaven is showing his appreciation for our work. The women have done so well. Some of you have come to the office weeping because of women who lacked clothing, and expectant mothers and babies who were not cared for, and children without shoes, but I believe on every occasion, even though you could not do all you wished, you found the means to bless and comfort the people. It is our mission, to comfort and sustain those who are in trouble! We must never get the feeling of depression. The women of the community are the ones who must hold high the standards. Our husbands are depressed these days, when things are so unstable, so it is the women who must hold things safe and secure. We have great opportunities now, opportunities of study, of travel, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and advantages that our parents and grandparents did not have. Let us make the best possible use of them. Let us look through the past, and take out the beautiful that will enrich our lives. Let us analyze the present, and see what we can do that will make our lives fuller, and enable us to meet the future more efficiently. I believe firmly that the Gospel of Jesus Christ, a testimony that God lives, is the anchor that will hold us and make us feel secure. There is a little verse of Whittier's which 287 expresses the experience common to all of us, "And midst the maddening maze of things When tossed by storm and flood To one fixed hope my spirit clings I know that God is good." If we can hold this in our lives; if we can take advantage of opportunities that are given to us; if we can keep our children secure; if we can find joy in life, and know that God lives; that we are His children and if we do our part, all things will be well, this depression will be a blessing to us. BISHOP SYLVESTER Q. CANNON I can assure you my sisters, and brethren who are present, that I consider it a privilege to be with you this afternoon, on this memorable anniversary, in the midst of such a splendid gathering of the finest group of women I have ever seen. Today we are facing a condition, and not a theory, as one of the presidents of the United States once said. We are in the midst of a situation that we did not foresee, and we did not prepare for. (I say "we," I mean the people of the United States, and of all the world.) As I see it, every wage earner, and a wage earner is the one who is concerned with unemployment, ought to have the opportunity to be employed in a gainful occupation. And to have leisure time for mental and spiritual development. A great many have an opportunity of enjoying leisure time at the present, a good deal more possibly than they like to enjoy, but after all, leisure time and the way in which one spends it, indicates what is going to become of him. That is largely true of young people, but it is also true, in a measure, of everyone of us, no matter what our occupation may be, or what our lack of occupation may be. In the matter of unemployment during this past winter, the committee of the Governor, the State Council of Unemployment and the educational forces in the state, have been undertaking to encourage people to employ their leisure time in learning something that would help them to obtain more profitable employment and activity in normal times. It has been said that the greatest things that we do are done in our spare time. Certainly those who have taken advantage of all the time to qualify themselves have been able to accomplish some of the greatest things that have ever been done. Edison, who used every moment of his spare time to advantage, was able to perfect some of the greatest inventions that have ever been produced. Lincoln, who as a boy spent all his spare time in reading and studying before a log fire, became the great emancipator of his country, and so many instances might be referred to of those who have occupied their spare time profitably. 288 As it has been stated, everyone who is engaged in the earning of wages, ought to have the opportunity for mental and spiritual development, and so this Church stands for the observance of the Sabbath Day. Every person who has occasion to work should rest on one day of the week, and employ his time in spiritual development. That does not of course mean that he should not enjoy and develop spiritually on other days, but that that day particularly should be devoted to that purpose instead of to that sort of activity that interferes with the spiritual welfare. In like manner everyone engaged in wage earning should have an opportunity for mental training and development. We realize that the present conditions do not generally offer such opportunities for gainful occupation as we desire they would. It is true that even in normal times there is a certain amount of unemployment, but that is ordinarily not sufficient to interfere with the general progress throughout the world. How then can we help to bring about the return of normal conditions, and what can we do to help to avoid future depression? I suppose we are all doing all that we can wherever possible to provide employment, but unfortunately we are all suffering, in a measure, from these unfavorable conditions. There are very, very few whose income or whose wages have not depreciated, and therefore we are in a less favorable condition to provide employment for others, all over the county, city, State and nation. A greater load is placed upon us if taxes are increased, and we have difficulty in paying these taxes with our depreciated incomes. The only thing we can do is to try to do what is within our reach, to help those in need and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at the same time to avoid, as far as possible, overstraining ourselves under these conditions. There have been many proposals advanced to bring about better opportunities; some of these are favorable and some impracticable. To avoid depressions is difficult, because Americans everywhere fail, in many instances, to observe economic laws. Perhaps, as has been frequently stated, among the things that interfere with the best economic conditions are two qualities, selfishness and greed. I know of nothing that will help to overcome these arch enemies more than the observance of true religion as practiced in this Church. The world is so closely connected and interrelated by communication, and through transportation facilities, that what affects one part affects another. As I see it, the only way whereby we can help to overcome unemployment at the present time, is to provide shorter working hours and shorter working weeks. Through the introduction of machinery the efficiency of the workers has been materially increased. Therefore, because of this situation, and because of the reduced buying power of people everywhere, it appears that this is one of the most vital means that can be adopted to bring about greater employment in industry. It seems to me that this plan should be, considered very seriously and carefully by everyone engaged in the industry and in the employment of people. It would involve some changes, and it is going to take time to bring that about. All of these suggestions require time, because we are not in a position to dictate any one plan to be put into effect without regard to the feelings of all concerned. Another way of helping is buying RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE in the home market and the patronizing of home industry. Of course it is necessary to avoid sectionalism and to try to satisfy and to serve the needs of the individual communities. Their best market is their home market, and the best means for the people locally to help their own conditions is to patronize the home market and the home manufacturers. Another important thing is the stabilization of the purchasing power of the dollar. We realize that the value of the dollar is based upon the fixed amount of gold in the dollar. We also realize that the value of gold has dropped just as much as other commodities. We are not concerned so much individually about the purchasing of gold, but we are concerned about the purchasing of commodities that we need for our sustenance. One noted economist has suggested a basis for the stabilization of the purchasing power of the dollar based upon suitable commodities that the people need. If we can be sure, for instance, that the value of the things we need for our food and clothing and so forth would remain the same, in other words that the dollar would purchase about the same all the time, would that not help materially in our communities. The farmers would be able to get a reasonable price for their wheat, the cotton growers would be able to get a reasonable price for their cotton, and the woolmen would be able to get a reasonable price for their wool, and so with other things. The metal industry would also be able to secure reasonable results for their product. So, as I said, one of the noted economists, Professor Oliver Fisher, of the Yale University, has recommended that the dollar be stabilized according to its purchasing power, a 289 After all, the sentiment of the people will determine largely the effect of legislation, and of the attitude of mankind with regard to this proposition and these problems. The manufacturers in this state should be patronized largely by the people of this state, and manufacturers of other states should be patronized by people of those localities. The manufacturers should produce the kind of goods at the price and quality that can compete with other goods from other localities. It has been stated that in this state alone, if the people would patronize all the manufactures that could be produced here, it would put from fifteen to twenty-five thousand people to work, and that is far more than are unemployed in this state. What can we do individually and collectively?