NOTE By Nephi Anderson "There isn't a workman, I venture to say, in any city or town or even large village, in the whole length and breadth of the United States, who has any social recognition, if he is still working at his trade. I don't mean, merely, that he is excluded from rich and fashionable society, but from the society of the average educated people....... The severance of the man who works for his living with his hands, from the man who does not work for his living with his hands, is so complete, and apparently  so final, that nobody even imagines anything else, not even in fiction" ?William Dean Howells, in A Traveler From Altruria. It seems a pity that William Deal Howells, that "Dean of American Literature," could not have been acquainted sufficiently with the '"Mormons"?their life and religion, so that he could have made an exception to the sweeping declaration regarding the standing of a man who works for his living with his hands in contrast to the man who does not. Such a keen abserver of life as the author of The Treaveler From Altruria was no doubt justified in making the statement which he did on the present condition or organized society not only in these United States, but in every other civilized nation. It is true that there is in modern society a distinct cleavage between the man who works with his hands and the man who does not; and this is strikingly true in Christian communities, although the religion of these same Christians plainly teach that, all other things being equal, there should be no social distinctions between these two classes; for, Paul says: "By one spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one spirit." The test of any profession of religion is its effects on the actual living conditions of its professors. The Latter-day Saints claim they have the religion spoken of by Paul, and by the Master himself, as making for oneness and equality, not only in an ethical sense, but in actual contact of everyday life. If the religion of Jesus Christ teaches one truth more emphatically than another, it is that honest labor of all kinds is equally honorable, and should constitute no bar to the social intercourse which is so essential in a community professing a unity of faith. In every "Mormon" community we find ample proof that this unity and brotherly love is no mere theory. The bishop of the ward is frequently the town carpenter. The stake president is very often a farmer. The teacher of the theological class in the Sunday school may be the village shoemaker. All these meet on a perfectly equal social plane on many occasions, with the high school principal, the merchant, or the banker. The gardener may be the spiritual adviser of the capitalist. The wife of the banker visits with the wife of the bricklayer. The son of the tean: ster marries the daughter of the college professor. Character only is the test which makes for class distinction with true Latter-day Saints. William Dean Howells' severe indictment against the world must very likely stand; but the Latter-day Saints, having come out of the world, cannot be truthfully included in this criticism of the world's weakness, unfairness, and selfishness. THE. FAMILY TREE Our fathers planted the family tree And tended it with anxious zeal; What did they know, what could they see, Of future cares or of future weal? Long have those heroes been asleep, Leaving the labor to you and to me; Many the sons and daughters keep For good or for ill the family tree. Much has been done, there is much to do; What shall we answer, what shall we say? Have we kept the faith, have we all been true? In the present light of a later day, Of future labors, of future light, What do we know, what can we see? From the planting of oh, so long ago, What shall the harvest be? ?TIsrael Bennion, 1920 GOLDENROD I've loved the little wayward paths that hurry up the hill, And never tire all the day, but lure me on until My weary road is left behind to journey where it will. That way the blythe-souled goldenrod, her summer to beguile, Crowds nigh against the footway to give and take a smile? Ah, Loveliness, but summer is such a little while! And why you are, of all my loves, the love I must confess Has thralled the rover's heart of me, I cannot tell, unless It is that round my joy you fling. A sweet regretfulness. I've loved the way?I've said it was a gracious way I trod, Whichever way my chancing feet have found you, goldenrod? Each little upward path we took, a nearer one to God. Riveina Lundgren. UDERRESNUONATEONEE To the Agents and Friends of the Mag- -azine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the confer- - ence. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. ET) To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for Your ? Expiration! THE FLOWER SHOP ELIZABETH HUTH, Prop. Telephone 73 ECCLES BLDG., OGDEN AT McINTYRE'S BEST BY TEST" Ice Cream. Candy Cake:-Luncheons PHONE WAS. 3223. -. P. O. BOX 17/3 ?? 'SALT LAKE CITY Service Press Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044 228 West Broadway Salt Lake City A Page for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?recipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Ghe Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market Be RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. L Boys' School SHOES When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Temple Block Salt Lake City PERCE'S FOOD PRODUCTS Pork?Beans Tomatoes Sauerkraut Temato Soup Hominy Tomato Catsup. Pumpkin 3sYRUP a -?the favorite Ganatorily Packed ? Everlastingly Backed. By in most Utah UTAH CANNINGG:?::.05:; case, Mention Relief Society Magazine The Utah State National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Heber J. Grant, President. AntHony W. Ivins, Vice-President. Cuartes W. Nistey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Arvin C. Strone, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. Mention Relief Society Magazine An Appropriate Gift? A Bound Volume of the Relief Society Magazine Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols. Of 1919 Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919 Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920 Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather Bound 15c Extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Mention Relief Society Magazine 'The Daddy of 'Em All ?_. Ozden Since 188? Pierce's by the IX J Da Was, 912 A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service Mm = cx and pS Oe i eo ME ee Se aoe Pe ea a Bm Ve aa! SM. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral Directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 251-257 East First South Street. Was. 912 Mention Relief Society Magazine S. M. TAYLOR, President A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas.