[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | August | Issue: 9 | Title: North Sanpete Stake | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

		NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of North San-
pete stake held in Mt. Pleasant, June 29,
1913, President Williamina Ericksen pre-
siding.
	Roll was called, showing 75 visiting offi-
cers and members present. Minutes of
previous conference were read and accepted.
	President Ericksen welcomed the sisters
and was indeed pleased to see so many
present; was also pleased we had a sister
from the General Board to visit us.
	The General Board and local officers were
sustained.
	Sister Larsen from Spring City and Sister
Guymon from Fountain Green each report-
ed their wards as doing the best they could
and preparing for the calls made of them in
various ways.
	Sister Sarah Fowles reported the Fair-
view ward as also doing a good work. In
the last four years had gathered Sunday
eggs amounting to $2,000. Had assisted the
bishop in the building of the meeting house,
with donations and Sunday eggs, $3,000.
	Sister McLellan from the General Board
was indeed pleased to be present, and
thought it a great pleasure to the president
to see such a large attendance from the
adjoining wards. She had learned to love
the Relief Society work since she had been
called to work with the sisters. We learn
to do by doing. President Smith advised
the people to teach our children in regard


[Column 1]
to styles and fashions. Each organization
should sustain every other organization. The
Lord overrules all and He makes no mistake
in choosing our leaders. Brought greetings
from President Wells. At her advanced
age is still active; was visiting four confer-
ences. Said it was the largest forenoon ses-
sion she had met; felt Sister Wells would
be delighted to be here this morning. Spoke
of temple work and the laying away of the
dead; gave some instructions as given by
Joseph E. Taylor, in laying away the dead.
The Relief Society sisters should know how
to do these things correctly, they should be
authority on this subject. The position of
the Mormons in an educational way stands
third in the Union, even if we are misrep-
resented in the world. Advised all to look
after their genealogy, keeping proper re-
cords and having work done. The General
Board had opened a house for the accom-
modation of visitors and girls coming from
the country.
	Sister Maud Accord from Spring City
gave a talk on “Self Improvement.”
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
	Relief Society conference reconvened at
2 p. m., President Ericksen presiding.
After opening exercises President Ericksen
made a few remarks.
	Sister Mary J. Blackman, of Moroni, gave
a talk on “Charity.”
	Sister McLellan was indeed pleased to
meet such a large audience of both men and
women; spoke of her labors in the mission
field; explained the mission work and bless-
ings received through our efforts put forth
in doing good; spoke of her visit to Nauvoo
and Carthage jail; gave some very
good advice to the teachers and encouraged
them in their noble and grand work.
	President C. N. Lund felt pleased and
much interested in the meetings of the day,
and the good attendance from the wards;
was thankful for the timely and good ad-
vice given, and it was important that all
sisters be present to receive such instruc-
tions; felt this was the best conference held
in the stake; was grateful for the Relief
Society organization.
	Sister Estella Miner from Fairview gave
a very excellent reading, “The Artist’s
Picture.”
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
The stake officers had made an effort to
visit all the wards in the stake before con-
ference.
	Beautiful music was rendered by the choir
and the Misses Lewis and Price.
		FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
						Stake Secretary.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ogden stake was held in the
Relief Society hall, at Ogden, Utah, on
saturday, July 19, 1913, at 10:30 a. m. and
2 p. m. with a prayer meeting at 10 a. m.,
preceding the morning session.
	Owing to the illness of Stake President
Sarah M. Taylor, she was unable to meet
with us and 1st Counselor Isabel Foulger
presided and conducted both sessions of
the conference.
	Present on the stand were Sisters Julia
P. M. Farnsworth and Alice M. Horne of
the General Board of the R. S., Elder
Elijah A. Larkin of the High Council, Sis-

[Column 2]
ter M. Maddock of the Y. L. M. I. A. stake
Board, eleven members of the R. S. stake
Board, and president or representative from
each of the local associations.
	After the opening exercises Second Coun-
selor L. Letitia Richards welcomed all pres-
ent.
	Reports from the local associations fol-
lowed, a special feature of which was with
reference to attendance of officers and work-
ers at sacrament meetings, preparation meet-
ings and prayer meetings and the effects of
the same on the Relief Society. The results as
reported were that the sacrament meetings
are being better attended by our officers than
formerly, which means a larger spiritual
growth; the preparation meeting is aiding
them in better preparation of lessons and
conducting of meetings and general detail,
while the prayer meeting, preceding the gen-
eral meeting, fits and qualifies each attend-
ant for the work in hand. The sick and
poor were being cared for and the work in
general progressing.
	A most excellent paper on “The Value of
Our Class Work,” was given by Sister
Vincy R. Barker, after which Secretary Nel-
lie Becraft briefly reported the work done
by the R. S. stake Board during the past
three months; weekly visits are made to
the local associations and help given them in
every way possible, besides a large num-
ber of visits to the sick are made.
	Sister Farnsworth of the General Board,
was delighted with the spirit of the confer-
ence, the singing, the reports and every-
thing done and felt that benefit would result
from the same.
	Sister Horne of the General Board felt it
to be a privilege to be present; had looked
over our “outlines” and was convinced more
deeply than before, of the practicability of
each stake planning its own work.
	After singing, the benediction was pro-
nounced by Counselor Larkin of the High
Council, and during the noon period a
luncheon was served and a social time was
spent.
	The afternoon session was a Memorial
Service in memory of Weber stake first Re-
lief Society President, Sister Jane S. Rich-
arde.
	In addition to those on the stand at the
morning session there were present Charles
C. Richards of the stake Presidency
and Elder William S. Wright of the 
stake Presidency of the Y. M. M. I. A., who
with Sister Maddock of the Y. L. M. I. A. 
added to the enjoyment of the conference by
their sweet singing.
	After the opening exercises a Life Sketch
of Sister Richards was given by Sister Nel-
lie Becraft.
	Sister Farnsworth of the General Board
paid a beautiful tribute to the memory of
Sister Richards, whom she had known and
loved and always looked upon as one of the
foremost women in the church; thought
this day should continue to be fittingly ob-

[Column 3]
served as it meant so much to the sisters and
to the community where Sister Richards had
accomplished so great a work.
	Sister Horne of the General Board con-
sidered it a great privilege to have known
Apostle and Sister Richards; they were
both the embodiment of all that was good
and noble. Sister Richards was a woman
of great wisdom and of the broadest char-
ity; it has been well said that she was a 
statesman and her executive ability of a very
high order; her home life was most beauti-
ful and she was certainly worthy of being
the first Relief Society stake President.
	President Richards has heard so many
good things said of his parents that his
heart was deeply touched; he was glad of
the work they had done, the record they
had made and the treasures they had laid
up where neither moth nor rust could cor-
rupt nor thieves break through and steal.
	Counselor Foulger said our minds have
been carried back to the days of our child-
hood, when Sister Richards gathered in all
the young girls, teaching us valuable les-
sons in her motherly way, until we were fin-
ally organized into the Y. L. M. I. A. Hers
was a beautiful life service,  nothing was
ever allowed to interfere with duty.
	We feel that our conference was a most
enjoyable one and one to be remembered
and cherished.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


