(To be continued) Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson O be genuinely happy, mothers must learn how to play with their children. 'Play activity has its definite purpose, just as work has its end; each helps make the well-rounded social individual. In play the training should be for cooperation and unity. Play should teach good sportsmanship. Most of us mothers lose out in the play time of our children and thus miss an excellent opportunity to develop family solidarity. Too often we allow our children to think of us only as ogres for work. We have Johnny bring up the coal; we have Mary scour out the basin and tub; we have James do the dusting. But how many times do we call them together and say, "Let's pack a lunch and go gather some wild flowers?" The world around us is so full of wonder that we snould enjoy more of it. Children are so refreshing that we should enjoy more of them. Where there are children there can be no depression, for if we only open our eyes and hearts to them, they will banish any feeling of gloom. We should take frequent walks with our children. In our Rocky Mountain country, the wild flowers are abundant and beautiful. Help the youngsters make a collection; if possible, naming each flower. This year we experimented by pressing the flowers and then enclosing them in cellophane. I am certain that they will keep much better during the year when eager but careless little fingers turn over the pages. This wildflower gathering may expand from year to year by the study of manuals and by classifying and reclassifying. It's surprising how fascinating this particular activity becomes. Following it as a hobby gives plenty of opportunity for hikes and sun-tans, to say nothing of the chance it affords for gaining of valuable information. Insect and bird life are worth studying. Try to learn the characteristics of the birds and recognize their songs. Interest the children in watching them without harming or disturbing them. If little ones learn never to injure birds or other animals an invaluable lesson will be taugnt. If they will not injure dumb animals, how much more will they hesitate to injure human beings. Then we shall be one step nearer to the time when peace and good fellowship shall abound in the earth. Don't forget walks during the winter. Outside activity in this season is essential to health as well as to happiness. Dress tne children in warm (waterproof, if possible) clothing, and then go out for a good sleigh ride or a snowball fight. Incidentally, watch the roses bloom in your cheeks as well as in your children's. You will be startled how many things you can see if you will once open your eyes to the life of winter. DURING the whole year special days should be made much over in the homes. I don't mean that there need be expensive parties. I do mean, however, that something extra should be arranged for the family as an entirety. Pictures offer great possibilities and are easily available. Magazines and papers are full of them. Begin gathering them together. Whenever you see pictures of Washington, Lincoln, or those pertaining to Christ- 600 mas, Thanksgiving, Valentine's Day, or any other holiday, cut them out. When you go to the store, ask the owner to give you the cardboard that comes between the layers in his boxes. Then let the older children paste the pictures on these cards and you have tie beginning of your collection. Get a box and keep the pictures from year to year and you will be surprised at the rapid growth of your picture library. On the special days, put these prints around. Play a few games and serve some special sweet, such as, peppermint chews or cookies that are homemade. Birthdays need especially to be celebrated. In these days when so many people talk freely about limiting the size of the families, I can't help wondering how the children feel. My oldest son, seven and a half, asked a neighbor child to come in and play. The boy said, "Mother won't let me. She says you have too many children already." Son turned to me and said, ?We haven't too many children, have we, Mother?" Youngsters must be convinced that they are desired and loved. No day can compare to the child's own birthday for this assurance. If necessary, make less of Christmas (which after all has lost most of its significance through its commercialization) and save for the birthday of each member of the family. With each new child purchase a small notebook and keep a record of his development: his mischief, his cute tricks, his bright sayings, his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE diseases, his triumphs, his troubles. (This information will be priceless in helping you understand him.) A day or two before the birthday, get out the notebook and re-read all the particular happenings to this particular child. Select those items tuat will please him and make the rest of the family approve of him. Never tell anything that will embarrass him or make him lose his self-confidence. Retell the little intimate things to show him that you love him and are eagerly watching 'his development. Make his favorite Pike and put candles on it. Be sure to write his name on it. Vegetable coloring costs so little, lasts so long, and gives so much pleasure that every family should have at least two colors always on hand. Cookie cutters are inexpensive and helpful. In our home we make our parties largely with these cut cookies. Orange or apple chariots have round cookies for wheels; two horses pull them; gingerbread men are the drivers. In addition to the games, plan a program. Even the two-year old responds to the party idea and begins to obtain self-reliance and poise. We are told that we remember longest the pleasant experiences because we recall them oftenest. We mothers who wish to be honored by our children must be sure we give them enough good times that they won't be able to forget us for an instant. By making use of our happy moments we shall help insure family love and unity.