Notes from the Field Northwestern States Mission: HE manner in which one of our missions celebrates Annual Day is most graphically told in the following account by Mrs. Pearl C. Sloan, President of the Mission Relief Societies: "Our Branch Presidents have kindly given the Relief Society a Sunday night nearest our Relief Society Anniversary, March 17th, for a program. This gives an opportunity for presenting our work to our friends and also to members of the branch. Most of our programs have brought in some phases of the work of the Relief Society and the opportunity it offers to its members, and also they have taken the opportunity of bringing in other speakers who could talk to them on topics of interest. In Seattle, Mrs. Thomas Irving, President of the Federated Woman's Coterie Club of the University District, talked to the Relief Society sisters, upon, 'The Accomplishments of the Recently Closed Session of the State Legislature.' Mrs. Gertrude Hovland of the Ladies' Nordica Choral Society rendered two vocal solos. This, with the excellent singing by the Seattle choir, made an interesting evening. "On March 17th our Relief Societies also celebrated our anniversary by giving a free entertainment for the adult membership of the branches. Many of our smaller groups gave a dinner or a luncheon, with a short play or an original program. "In Klamath Falls, Oregon, the program was built around the Relief Society Magazine, with the desire to emphasize many of the activities contained therein. An impersonator calling herself Miss 'Maga Zine' carried an enlarged copy of the March issue, introducing each number on the program, which consisted of a reading and a musical number by a quartette of 'singing fathers,' a talk 'Our Virtues?The Beatitudes,' also a playlet by the visiting teachers and another talk 'Service as We Know It,' a retold story from the literature lessons, a talk 'Practical Value of the Doctrine and Covenants' and a short dramatization, 'The Spirit of Relief. Society.' "Butte, Montana, dramatized the work of the different departments. Subjects chosen were: Theology? 'The Restoration of the Priesthood;' Literary?'Balcony Scene from Romeo and Juliet;'? Social Service? 'Class Work in the Clinic;' Visiting Teachers?'The Right and Wrong Way for Teachers to Present the Teachers' Topic.' These numbers were interspersed with musical and specialty numbers. "In Bynum, Montana, each class leader directed a one-act play representing their particular work. A prize of a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine was given for the best play. "In Tacoma, Washington, a poem composed by one of the sisters told very cleverly of the purpose of the party, also of the value of membership in the Relief Society. A play 'The Organization of the Relief Society, was given by the members, and another interesting feature was an old-fashioned album made by two of the sisters. Past presidents were represented by six of the Relief Society sisters and as the leaves were opened they were introduced by the hostess, each one giving their own autobiography. The hostess then gave a sketch of the life of our own loved President, Louise Y. Robison. These with a number of appropriate mu- 612 sical selections made a very interesting program. "Varied and original ideas in decorating with our Relief Society colors added to the pleasure of our celebrations, and in some of our Societies we were given excellent publicity by our newspapers." Another picture from the Mission is presented as follows: "I visited in Kelso, Washington, yesterday. It was our social service meeting, the last one for the season, the lessons being given there by Sister Linda Fletcher, who has written a number of poems for the Magazine. It isa standing joke that some of the sisters have buried their talents, but unlike the man in the Bible, they expect theirs to grow and produce results in the way of flowers and vegetables. Two sisters whose husbands are unemployed were wondering how to get the original dime, when walking along the street they each found the shining silver coin lying at their feet in the grass along the walk.' " Sister Sloan was a delegate to tne Thirty-seventh Annual Convention of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, held in the Olympic Hotel at Seattle, on May 22 to 26, 1933. It is gratifying when our sisters can cooperate in these great educational movements. The subject of this convention, "The Child and His Community," fits in splendidly with the program of study in our social service work for this year. The following are a few of the high spots in the convention: "Adults of this generation face a grave responsibility and yet have great opportunity to turn more thought, more energy, more real and intelligent planning into making the child in his community safe, happy, and ready for the future?Mrs. Hugh Bradford, National President." "We are all of us fellow-passengers RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on the same planet and we are all of us equally responsible for the ? happiness and well-being of the world in which we happen to live? Hendrik Van Loon's Geography." "The year ahead needs concentrated effort, wise planning, and a cheerful approach to our problems. Let us hold our meeting's for the high purpose of discussing the future welfare of our children. Let us not speak in terms of regret for the past but in terms of confidence for the future; confidence because of the faith we have in our neighbors far and near; confidence that what we determine to have for children will be theirs if we are united in our effort and wise in our planning ?Mrs. Hugh Bradford, National President." North Sanpete Stake: SINCE our stake has put over some very excellent work during the past year, the attendance and interest in Relief Society has increased very materially. Before the work began last fall our class leaders' convention was held and the inspiration and interest that were kindled by Sister Maud Beeley Jacob has carried over into all of our season's work. "At the September Relief Society conference Sister Jennie B. Knight, our beloved General Board member, gave us much, food for thougnt, and in her pleasing spiritual way left her message of personal peace that has sustained us in our work. "Annual Day in March was very fittingly observed by every ward in the stake. On account of its being rather out of the ordinary, I should like to give the proceedings of the day as observed by three wards that unite each year on this occasion. The adults, men and women, between five and six 'hundred, gathered at the beautiful new chapel (at Fairview South Ward) at 11 a. M. Where a wonderful program was carried out. The Bishop's counselor of one ward NOTES FROM THE FIELD took charge. All former Relief Society Presidents, twelve in number, were honored. Ten living and two by proxy were present seated in a unique manner on the stand while a brief history of the Relief Society from the beginning, with time of 613 service of each president, was read by a Relief Society sister. Then the song, 'That Wonderful Mother of Mine,' was rendered by one of the brethren. This was followed by the pageant 'Eternal Womanhood,' original readings, one act play, a short PAGEANT, "THE COLLEGE OF OPPORTUNITY" FAIRVIEW NORTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY 614 operetta 'Synthia,' and talk by a stake officer, and music by a stringed orchestra were features before luncheon was served in the basement. The crowd was so large that lunch was served to about seventy-five at a time, while they still carried on the program in the auditorium. The honor guests and all over sixty were served first. During the luncheon the stringed orchestra furnished delightful old time music. Stunts, readings, one act plays were enjoyed until 4 p. M. The day closed with a dance where the ladies paid for the tickets and chose their partners. Standing feature of the day was the cooperation of the brethren, who are just as interested and look forward to it with just as much pleasure as do any of the sisters. The brethren took part on the program, worked on the refreshment committee, and helped on the entertainment committee right along with the women. They were there the day before with teams and wagons and cars getting things ready for the occasion and the day after cleaning up and putting things back in order again. "Ward Relief Society conferences have been held in every ward of the stake. As the main part of the program we used 'The College of Opportunity,' with some changes in poems, music, and songs by our late chorister, Tressa L. Ericksen. The wards spared no efforts in making the conference a success. The staging and costuming was beautifully and effectively done. "A very successful visiting teachers' convention was held June 8, 1933. The stake board served refreshments to 325. We feel that this stake day was very fitting as a conclusion to our year's activities. "On May 21, 1933, our beloved stake chorister, Tressa L. Ericksen, passed away. We feel deeply the loss of such an efficient woman from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE our board. She has been a member for ten years. At the April General Relief Society Conference 1931 she gave a talk on correlation program of songs to the lesson of each month." Franklin Stake: HE following interesting report comes from the Stake Board: "Franklin Stake Relief Society has just closed a profitable year. The lesson work in all departments has been greatly enjoyed. During the last six months our special activities have been satisfactory. Under the State Extension Department, demonstrations have been held in all parts of the stake, and women have been instructed how to conserve fruit, make over clothing, and beautify home and gardens. "A four-day Recreational Convention was also held at which two persons from each auxiliary organization in the two stakes were given a course in social games and folk dancing. "A Woman's Educational Encampment also was held in Bear Lake in July. Sixty-six of our stake women participated. "Fifteen nundred women of the county signed petitions against 3.2 beer. These were sent to the Governor and Legislators in special assembly. "We succeeded at our late ward conferences in having Relief Society choruses in every ward, some of which were very creditable. "Tn connection with the Red Cross we have given extensive relief to the needy. "Near the close of the lesson work a very unique social was sponsored by the stake board in honor of officers and class teachers. The fourseason scheme demonstrated at the late April conferences was succssfully carried out. Decorations were NOTES FROM THE FIELD all in keeping with the season. The games and program were snappy and appropriate. The luncheon served in birthday groups was simple and very delicious." North Weber Stake (Grouse Creek Ward). A MOST delightful and successful banquet was held in the ward amusement hall on March 17. The Ward Relief Society sisters were the hostesses. Those present were members of the Society with their husbands, others of the Ward over 40 years of age were invited guests. The older ones present were presented with beautiful flowers. Takles, with decorations, etc., in keeping with the spirit of St. Patrick's Day were set for nearly one hundred. A bounteous repast was served in courses, during which time several toasts, songs, musical selections, etc., were enjoyed. The event closed with a dance at night for the public. A large crowd was present. The music for the dance was furnished by local talent, and was free of charge, which was one of the con- 615 tributing factors to a successful entertainment. California Mission (Mar Vista Ward). ?To commemorate the ninety-first anniversary of the Relief Society, a unique program was carried out in Mar Vista Ward on Tuesday, March 14, 1933. The morning hours were spent in making housedresses and pajamas for the Red Cross, On the menu of the delicious luncheon which was served at noon, was a large birthday cake. The program was interesting and varied, consisting of interpretation of the Irish theme in song and story. First of all the members joined in singing well-known Irish melodies. Sister Ethel Taylor, dressed becomingly in a costume of 1842, told the story of the organization and purposes of the Relief Society. Sister Harriet Anderson rendered a group of songs of Erin and Sister Barbara James gave several Irish readings. Irish costumes lent their color and atmosphere to the entertainment and the remainder of the afternoon was spent in appropriate games."