CALIFORNIA MISSION Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in December) ATTITUDE TOWARD CiviL Law LESSON XII 1. Mutual Agreements. The attitude of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints toward civil law and the officers that enforce it is well set forth in the twelfth Article of Faith, as follows: "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." The principles contained in this statement form the very basis upon which society endures. Indeed, if people were not willing to subscribe to the principles upon which general agreement exists society could no longer be maintained and modern life would retrograde into barbarism. 2. As it is, however, civilized peoples have agreed to live together in peace and harmony, to the end that life, property, and the pursuit of happiness are vouchsafed to all. Ina composite group, however, such as is present in any community or nation, there are always some who are not 'willing to comply with the decisions of the masses, and who, accordingly, produce trouble and discord. Before these are considered, nowever, let us reemphasize the fact that society itself is an outgrowth of the mutual agreements of those who constitute it, and that the degree of its success is a direct reflection of the fidelity in which these agreements are respected. An ideal society would be one in which just and equitable laws exist, honored and sustained by every member. 3. Individuals who live in society, and thus partake of its privileges and protection, are not free to do as they choose unless their acts do not interfere with or invade the rights of others. This fact is basic to both the proper operation and perpetuation of law and order. Uninformed and misgttided people, often with a distorted and exaggerated opinion of their individual freedom, not infrequently assume the attitude that no restrictions should be placed upon their personal acts or desires, in other words that they are free to do as they choose. The fact is that membership in society restricts one's freedom solely to those acts that do not violate the rights of others. In other words, membership itself is tantamount to a pledge and agreement to live within the restrictions agreed upon by society as a whole. Violation of the law constitutes a direct viola-. Tion of this pledge and agreement. 4. A means is provided in all good governments by which undesirable laws can be repealed and desirable ones enacted. So long as a law remains in force, however, the individual is bound to respect it and obey its provisions. The individual must never resort to subterfuge or violence; and order must prevail. The good citizen is not an obstructionist; neither does he retard the progress of justice. The law offers him almost unlimited protection and he is duty bound to obey its mandates. 5. Disregard for Law. There are those, however, who, regardless of the benefits and protection that they LESSON DEPARTMENT -derive from society, are not only willing but seek opportunity to violate its provisions. These are criminals, culpable of malicious intent. These are they who are opposed to law and order and wno seek to overthrow the ideals for which society stands. They are the enemies of civilization. Society has provided means for their punishment, varying in intensity with the nature of the offence. They are a liability to the community in which they exist and a hindrance to human progress. 6. Then there are large numbers of well-meaning citizens who unwittingly or otherwise violate many of the more or less minor provisions of the law. Among these are many of those who violate traffic regulations and who are otherwise easily tempted to do wrong, especially when they are not likely to be apprehended. The injury to society brought about by tnese people is doubtless far greater than is commonly believed, more particularly because of the vast numbers thus involved. 7. There is of course no justification for disregard for law, even in the slightest degree, no more, indeed, than there is for disregard for natural law. The Latter-day Saints should be most careful in their observance of law; even the slightest infractions should be avoided. The Latter-day Saints are enjoined to give full allegiance to the countries in which they live. The word of the Lord leaves no room for doubt concetning this matter. Listen: 'Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land. Wherefore, be subject to the powers tnat be, until He reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet." (D. And C, 58:21, 22.) 8. Modern Problems. It is generally believed that disregard for law 617 is more widespread at present than perhaps ever before, the causes for which are thought to be many. Uprisings incident to the casting off of old regimes in various countries have doubtless had their influence, even among peoples not directly affected by them. Then, too, the underworld is always ready to take advantage of unrest and indecision. In America, because of the incomplete success of the prohibition movement, the underworld is determined that the widespread use of alcoholic liquors shall be legalized and that its long list of accompanying evils shall return. Unfortunately an orgy of drinking and attendant debauchery appears to be near at hand. Nor is the propagandist counting the cost to human happiness. The liquor interests are determined to sell their products, even if the young people of the nation are sacrificed thereby. Broken homes, infidelity, moral turpitude, underfed children, poverty, and a legion of other ills are, to the liquor vendor, wholly unimportant in comparison with his desire for gold. Civilization has never had a more subversive or dangerous foe. The booming of enemy cannons at our very doors would not constitute a menace equal to that of the present liquor problem. And yet many of the nation's excellent citizens are actually assisting it to succeed. It does not appear to be widely understood that the liquor vendor's interests are basic in the problem and that he is determined to succeed irrespective of the injury wrought to those who consume his wares. 9. The thinking people of the nation should arise as a unit against this perfidious and seductive enemy. A call to arms for righteousness should be sounded far and near. Doubtless more educational work must be done. People, especially young people, should be more fully 618 taught concerning the evils of liquor. The moral tenor of the country in this respect must be raised, and raised greatly. Much of the breakdown of America's prohibition movement can be traced directly to the fact that the people generally were not highly enough trained to appreciate it. The education of the masses must be intensified in the future. Good laws must be enacted and weak ones strengthened. Men who will enforce the laws must be elected to office, and violators of the law must be made to pay the penalty for disobedience. The enemy, liquor, must not succeed; his depravity knows no limitations. 10. The Word of the Lord. No doubt snould exist in the mind of any Latter-day Saint concerning his duty toward the constitutional law of the land, as witness the following word of the Lord: "I say unto you concerning the laws of the land, it is my will that my people should observe to do all the things whatsoever I command them. And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me. Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my church, in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land; and as pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more or less than this cometh of evil. I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free. Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn. Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil." (D. And C. 98: 4-10.) 11. The foregoing statement is unusually RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE comprehensive, especially. Considering its brevity. It sets forth tnat the principle of freedom as proclaimed by the American constitution is the common heritage of all mankind. It justifies the members of the Church in befriending all laws in harmony with this principle, and it brands as evil all man-made regulations which are disharmonious with it. The statement declares that those who obey the law are free, and then hastens to warn that when the wicked rule the people mourn. It concludes with the admonition that wise and good men should be selected as rulers of the people. It is interesting to observe that if the principles and instruction contained in this statement were embodied in all political procedure many of the world's ills would almost immediately disappear. 12. The Constitution of the United States. More than two thousand years before the time of Columbus, the Lord gave a revelation in which it was pointed out that a man (Columbus) would discover America, that he would be followed by many others, and that the original inhabitants (Indians) would be scattered before them. In consequence of their humility, however, the newcomers prospered greatly in the land, and the power of God was upon tnem. Ata later time warfare broke out between them and their mother country (England), but they were delivered by the goodness of God. Following this, they prospered greatly in the land. (See I Nephi 13:12- 20.) It would be difficult, indeed, to epitomize more briefly and clearly the early history of the American people. 13. It is a matter of common knowledge that for several years following the revolutionary war with Great Britain the American people passed through by far the most critical period of their history. For LESSON DEPARTMENT a time it appeared that even though the war had been won, the colonies would be unable to unite upon a general policy, and accordingly would be compelled to reunite with the country from which they had so recently gained their freedom. At the close of nearly four years, nowever, the Federal Convention, consisting of fifty-five members, including George Washington, met at Philadelphia and in the incredibly short period of eighty-five working days framed the American constitution and prepared it for submission to thevarious states. The document has been declared by students of history and political science as "the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man." While a number of amendments have been made to its original provisions, yet the spirit of the constitution, as conceived by its framers, remains uncnanged. 14. The principle of self-determination, free agency, independence, freedom to do as one chooses, has ever been vouchsafed to the children of God. Deity's attitude in this regard dates from before the foundations of the world. Ina revelation to Joseph Smith, given December 16, 1833, the Lord declared that every man should be able to act in principle and doctrine according to the moral agency which had been given unto him, and that it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. The American Constitution was established to safe- 619 guard this precious right. Here are the words of the Lord: "For this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." (D. And C. 101:80.) Little wonder, therefore, that the Latter-day Saints regard the American constitution as an inspired document! 15. The Latter-day Saints are thus inherently a law-abiding people. They recognize the fact that in obedience lies safety and freedom, whereas disobedience leads only to sorrow and servitude. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. In what way does our membership in society (say, the United States or Great Britain) obligate us to obey its provisions? 2. Why is the lawbreaker a violator of his implied promises to society? 3. What do you think of the loyalty of a person who violates traffic law merely because an officer is not present to prevent him? 4. What can you do in your community to lessen the evil of liquor traffic? 5. What can you do to encourage the people of your community to elect honorable men to office? 6. How many of you have read the Constitution of the United States? How can you encourage people to read it? BUSINESS depressions and panics may sweep the earth, causing people to feel that they are sorely afflicted. But let us think for one moment: if the sun should cease to shine, the rains cease to fall, if the seasons each with their numerous blessings should cease to visit the earth, if all nature's gifts were suddenly lost to us?then indeed we should know real panic. How good is God; how blessed is man.?Camille C. Nuffer.  Teachers' Topic THE JOY OF SERVICE Service is the key to true 'nappiness. Man cannot exist alone, and his peace and happiness is dependent upon his fellowmen. 'Love of our fellowmen comes from a response to the finer, more beautiful, more spiritual in both nature and our fellows." "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16. "For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it." Mark 8:35. "If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be; if. Any man serve me, him will my Father honor." John 12:26, References: Luke 6:30-31; D. C. 42:29-31; D. C. 18:10-17; Mosiah 2 19-24; Matt. 7:12. The great work of our Father is service in behalf of his children. For their happiness he builds worlds and labors to bring to pass their happiness. Discuss Moses 1:31-39. Our Savior set us the perfect example in service, for he took upon himself our infirmities and sins that we, through obedience, might receive salvation. We do not know the excruciating agony he endured that we might live. D, C. 19:15-19. Jesus taught that to give our lives for others was the way to achieve blessings and our greatest joy and happiness. "From his life we derive the principle that love should be given to all mankind and help to those who need it. Every hour, every day, we are to be nelpers of the Father in assisting Him to lift every soul into greater happiness, greater self realization, and in turn to greater service." Selfishness is the basis of most of the trouble of today. If man would keep the second great commandment, love his neighbor as himself, and truly serve him, he would overcome many of the enemies of life. If we are interested in our neighbors' welfare, selfishness disappears, and we have no time nor inclination for such destructive forces as hatred, jealousy, envyings, self pity, etc. Discuss now these attitudes thwart soul growth and destroy happiness. "It is what we give rather than what we receive, which develops the soul." How is this true? Read thoughtfully and analyze the fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. E Jes' keep on a-strivin' an' hope for the best; There's only one method of meetin' life's test; Don't give up the ship an' retire in dismay; 'Cause hammers are thrown when you'd like a bouquet. This world would be tiresome, we'd all get the blues, If all the folks in it held just the same views; So finish your work, show the best of your skill, Some people won't like it, but other folks will. ?Exchange. LESSON DEPARTMENT 621 Literature (Third Week in December ) LIFE AND LITERATURE THe Roman VIEW OF LIFE "To conquer beyond right is to perish.??Agamemnon. One of the great stories Man has written in the "Book of Literature" is the biography of "The Youth of Society." The book is a book of heroes?men who made the world of. Yesterday a social foundation for the world of today, men who built cities that still stand as world capitals, men who made laws that are incorporated in the laws that govern us today. The story of "The Youth of Society" was enacted during the sovereign sway of the Romans as the governor of the world. The Roman World The great historian of Rome, Gibbon, looked upon Rome as "the bridge between the past and the present,?the central lake in which all streams of ancient history lose themselves and out of which all the streams of modern history flow." History records the fact that about 1200 B. C. A highly cultivated non-Aryan people, the Etruscans, established themselves in the south of the peninsula. Rome, on the Tiber, became the center of the life of the people of the south. The Etruscans, masters of such matters as roadbuilding and military organization, were gradually conquered by the Romans. Conquest after conquest followed until the Roman world included northern Africa, Greece, Gaul, Britain, Egypt, Asia Minor, and Palestine. From tribal unit to a kingdom, from a kingdom to a republic, the master of the civilized world, Rome developed before 31 B. C. The close of the Republic and the beginning of the Empire marked Rome in the supremacy of her power. To achieve power and greatness was a national impulse of the Romans. Julius Caesar, the greatest Roman of all, wrote his own greatness and that of his nations thus: "I came, I saw, I conquered." Virgil (70-19 B. C.) The great epic poet, of the "Aeneid," told the story of the fortunes of a remnant of the conquered Trojans led by Aeneas as they sought a new home in Italy. Virgil wrote: "Let others melt and mould the breathing bronze To forms more fair,?aye! Out of marble bring Features that live; causes well; Or trace with pointed wand the cycled heaven, And hail the constellations as they rise; But thou, O Roman, learn with sovereign sway To rule the nations. Thy great art shall be To keep the world in lasting peace to spare The humbled foe, and crush to earth the proud." The Roman's destiny was to be the governor of the world. They built a civilization based upon organization, military and political. The Roman was a man of remarkable masculine vigor and intensely practical nature. He was not influenced by sentiment, being conservative in all things. His desire for knowledge was limited to that which was useful, with little interest in the novel or speculative. His practical nature built amphitheatres, aqueducts, and roads; his power of organization developed a system of government. The religion of the Romans was as practical as the rest of his life, through ritual, prayer, guilds, and augers he sought to gain the favor of his gods. "Rome was indeed the religion of the Romans." The Roman must be admired for the moral qualities, manliness, sincerity, loyalty, which grew out of the severity of military discipline, the basis of their national life. It is to the great credit of the Roman, that he dignified and sanctified family ties and domestic virtues. The place of woman in the home and in the state was exalted far beyond that accorded to her by the Greeks. In the quest for power and dominion the Roman learned the science of government. The most significant outgrowth of Roman way of life was not in terms of individual perfection, but of making "leaders" and "rulers" of men. The Roman Empire rose on the wings of conquest, organization, and leadership: the Roman Empire fell in the conflict of sensuality and spirituality. "The decline and fall of the Roman Empire is the greatest, perhaps, and the most awful scene in the history of mankind." ? The Literature of Rome In the literature of a nation one finds the life and ideals of the nation. It was the ambition of the Romans to create a literature as great as Greek literature. This was an impossibility as Greek life and ideals were not Roman life and ideals. Greek life in its simplicity was conducive to individual development; to them "Man" was the measure of all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE things. Roman life was not free and individualistic; it was complex and dominated by the national quest for power. In public life, therefore, the orator was a more honored figure than the poet, and the military leader more than the philosopher. The Coliseum, with its gladiatorial combats, was first in the social life of the Romans; then came the circus with its race tracks; the theatre with its comedy and pantomime came third. The great masters of Roman literature were Virgil, Horace, Caesar, and Cicero. Virgil, the epic poet, sang of "Ilion falling, Rome arising" in the "Aeneid." The poem was a deliberate piece of work fashioned upon the works of Homer. Tennyson in his tribute to Virgil calls him wielder of the "stateliest measure ever molded by the lips of man." A scholar, idealist, and dreamer, his work was the product of design rather than that of an exuberant singer of hero lays. The few lines translated from one of his simple poems in praise of the life of the farmer illustrates the perfection of Virgil's work: "Easy quiet, a secure retreat, A harmless life that knows not how to cheat, With homebred plenty, the rich owner bless; And rural pleasures crown his happiness. Unvexed with quarrels, undisturbed with noise, The country king his peaceful realm enjoys? Cool grots, and living lakes, the flowery pride Of meads, and streams that through the valley glide, And shady groves that easy sleep invite, And, after toilsome days, a sweet repose at night." LESSON DEPARTMENT Horace (65-8 B. C.), the most distinguished poet after Virgil, gave to the world the immortal line "I shall not wholly die." He loved his country and was enthusiastic over its promise, yet his passion for beauty of expression was Greek in its nature. Tender and delicate of disposition with a pleasant ego, he was the father of a family of lovable literary characters, Chaucer, Cervantes, Montaigne, Izaak Walton, Oliver Goldsmith, Charles Lamb, Washington Irving, Henry David Thoreau. It has been said that "Horace's Sabine farm, Chaucer's Tabard Inn, Irving's ivy-mantled sunnyside and Thoreau's hut by Walden pond, are the homesteads of literature, where the latchstring is always out and the hearth always bright and the voices of cheerfulness and tolerance are saying, 'Welcome, my brother!'" The following selection is from the poem "To Maecenas:" "Happy the man?and happy he alone,? He, who can call today his own: He who, secure within, can say 'Tomorrow, do thy worst, for I have lived today; Be fair, or foul, or rain, or shine, The joys I have possessed, in spite of Fate, are mine, Not Heaven itself upon the Past has power, But what has been, has been, and I have had my hour.' * * * "For me, secure from fortune's blows, Secure of what I cannot lose, In my small pinnace I can sail, Contemning all the blustering roar: And running with a merry gale, With friendly stars my safety seek Within some little winding creek, And see the storm ashore." Cicero, the Latin master of prose, by sheer genius and pains established Latin speech as a universal language. His speeches and essays, as well as being great prose classics, reveal a statesman and a cultured gentleman. From the essay "Old Age": "The short period of life is long enough for living well and honorably; and if you should advance further, you need no more grieve than farmers do when the loveliness of spring-time hath passed, that summer and autumn have come. For spring represents the time of youth, and gives promise of the future fruits; the remaining seasons are intended for plucking and gathering in those fruits?The nearer I approach to death, I seem, as it were, to be getting sight of land, and at length, after a long voyage, to be just coming into harbor." Julius Caesar was a man of letters as well as a soldier. His "Commentaries on the Gallic War" is written in model Latin. Though the great day of Latin Literature passed with the Roman Empire and but little was revived after the Dark Ages, the great Latin language has never died because it is the world-wide language of the Catholic Church. The Literature of Roman Life To present the best of Roman life and thought for appreciation, we shall consider Plutarch's "Lives" and Shakespeare's "Julius Caesar." Plutarch (46-120 A. D.), the biographer of antiquity, was the bond between the two great civilizations, the Greeks and the Romans. Born a Greek but intensely interested in Roman life, he could look on the past glory of his own nation and the grandeur of the conqueror, Rome. Plutarch wrote "Lives" not history. He chose fifty heroes from the two great civilizations and in their lives found the leadership that made for greatness. His method was so unique that for eighteen hundred years he has received the admiration of men of letters and men of action. Emerson spoke of Plutarch thus: "Read Plutarch and the world is a proud place peopled with men of positive qualities, with heroes, and demi-gods standing around us, who will not let us sleep.?He is the elixir of Greece and Rome, the laureate of the ancient world." Another admirer reminds us, "To open our Shakespeare alongside of Plutarch and find the solid bronze Plutarch left behind him was some fifteen centuries later transmitted into gold by Shakespeare, and this alchemy of his we know as the plays "Julius Caesar," "Antony and Cleopatra," and "Coriolanus." The finest portrayal is Antony, the greatest character is Julius Caesar, the choicest life is Marcus Brutus, and the best wisdom is 'It is not God that injures thee but thyself.'" Shakespeare's great classical trilogy has for its hero, Rome. To do this Shakespeare followed Plutarch studiously, and truthfully presented Roman life and character. The plays are not merely chronicles, out of the materials of Plutarch and the "stuff of life," the genius of Shakespeare wove a true tapestry of Roman life. Julius Caesar?Shakespeare The great drama "Julius Caesar" presents with fidelity the Roman empire at the pinnacle of its greatness. From the time it was written in 1601 to the present, it has been one of Shakespeare's best liked plays. The play follows closely the account given by Plutarch of the assassination of Julius Caesar, the great military idol of the common people, but the object of hatred of the nobility. The scenes of the drama can be vividly pictured and the characters are clearly drawn. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Caesar is pompous, "full of lofty airs." Cassius is crafty, keen, and unprincipled,?a man who flatters men to win them. Brutus, a noble Roman, "who loves the name of honor more than he fears death." Casca is false and shallow. Mark Antony, the gifted orator, loves Caesar but uses him for his own ends. Calphurnia, weak and colorless, tries to rule her husband by threats and entreaties. Portia, womanly and charming, seeks to deserve her husband's confidence by fortitude and understanding. In the play the dramatic skill of Shakespeare is at its best, his poetry at its richest, and the portrayal of human nature at its fullest. The play opens in Rome. The common people are out on the streets making holiday to celebrate the return of their great hero, Julius Caesar. The Roman tribunes, dispatch the commoners to their homes, because they have violated the law of Rome by coming out on the streets on a laboring day without the signs of their trades. The tribunes remind them that not long since they came on the streets to honor great Pompey, and now they honor his conqueror. The commoners leave as commanded, and the tribunes disrobe the public statues of their decorations. The procession of Caesar and his followers passes down the street on the way to the games that are to celebrate the Feast of the Lupercal. Cassius and Brutus do not follow Caesar to the games. The Stoic Brutus is not "gamesome" as Antony, who is going to participate in the games. Cassius endeavors to gain the support of Brutus in a conspiracy against Caesar, first by flattery, second by a recital of his own virtues, and third by a denunciation of Caesar. Brutus is too noble to suspect the baseness of Cassius. A shout of applause is heard from the games, and the troubled Brutus reveals his thoughts: LESSON DEPARTMENT "I do fear, the people choose Caesar for their king." In answer, Cassius reveals his jealousy of Caesar. Both men have started life as common soldiers, yet in spite of physical handicaps Caesar has encompassed Rome "like a Colossus" and Cassius is but an "underling." Again and again the shouts are heard from the games. At length the procession returns from the games. Caesar noting Brutus and Cassius together comments to Antony: "Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look: He thinks too much: such men are dangerous. * * * He reads much: He is a great observer, and he looks Quite through the deeds of men: * * * Such men as he be never at heart's ease Whiles they behold a greater than themselves." As Casca passes Brutus stops him to inquire of the happenings at the games. Casca in a racy manner reports that Antony had offered Caesar a crown three times and the applause was greater at each rejection. Seeing that Brutus is greatly moved by the words of Casca, Cassius plans to convince Brutus of the need for action against Caesar by sending documents to him as if they came from several citizens. Brutus receives the several letters and seeks the solitude of his orchard to think of their purport. He decides that Caesar, the man, is not dangerous, but Caesar, the king, would be. When the conspirators arrive in the garden, he assists in making the plans for Caesar's death. Brutus will allow no oath to be taken by the conspirators: "Do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise, Nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits, To think that of our cause or our performance Did need an oath." The conspirators plead for Antony's death also. Brutus, the idealist, will not consent to become a murderer: "Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius. * * * We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar; And in the spirit of men there is no blood." Brutus has not been able to conceal his trouble from his wife, Portia. Thinking that her husband's secrecy is due to lack of confidence, Portia plans to give her lord a test of her fortitude. She inflicts upon herself a wound on the thigh to show that she was a woman, a woman worthy to be Cato's daughter, worthy to be Brutus's wife, worthy of her husband's counsel. Brutus overwhelmed at the nobility of Portia, grants her a knowledge of his enterprise. After a night of thunder and lightning and strange omens, Calphurnia prevails upon Caesar not to go to the senate. Caesar sends to the priests for an augur of the day's promise, boasting: "Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once. It seems to me most strange that men should fear; Seeing that death, a necessary end, Will come when it will come." The message from the augurer was a foreboding of evil, so Caesar yields to his wife's entreaties. The conspirators arrive to conduct Caesar to the senate. Calphurnia's fears and the priest's warning fade into insignificance before the flattery of Decius as he suggests that a crown may be awaiting Caesar. As they pass along the street to the Capitol, a soothsayer warns Caesar and suggests a way to escape his doom. Events move rapidly as planned by the conspirators. Caesar goes to the senate and proceeds with the business of the day. Metullus Cimber presents a petition to Caesar for the release of his brother. One by one the conspirators gather around to plead with Metullus. Caesar is killed. After some time a messenger comes to Brutus from Antony expressing friendliness and seeking an interview. Antony comes in grief for his friend but bidding for the goodwill of the conspirators. Antony is given permission to speak at Caesar's funeral against the advice of Cassius. At the funeral of Caesar, Brutus delivers a speech showing the reason for Caesar's death. The people accept the word of Brutus and choose him "to be Caesar." The speeches of Antony fire the people to indignation against the conspirators. Brutus and Cassius are compelled to flee. The innocent poet, Cinna, is torn to pieces by the angry mob because he had the same name as one of the conspirators. With brands lighted at the funeral pyre of Caesar, the people fire the houses of the traitors. The Roman army is divided, part joins the cause of Brutus and part joins Antony. Eighteen months later Brutus and Cassius meet at Sardis to discuss a new plan of action as their campaign so far has been unsuccessful. The two men begin by mutual faultfinding. Brutus maintains a lofty position of honor over Cassius; bribes have been taken from the Sardians and military offices have been sold for gold to undeservers. Cassius resents being checked and chastized like a bondman pleading that: "A friend RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE should bear a friend's infirmities." Cassius needed money to pay his soldiers. Brutus calls for a bowl of wine in which to bury the unkindness. With the pledge of reconciliation Brutus tells Cassius of the death of Portia. The two generals plan for a great battle on the plains of Philippi. That night the ghost of Caesar comes as if to mock their plans by promising to meet them at Philippi. The opposing armies meet and a conference is held. Antony rejects the proposals for peace. Before the battle Brutus and Cassius part in a touching farewell. Cassius leads a charge as the armies meet and is defeated. He orders Pindarus to kill him with the same sword that killed Caesar rather than be taken prisoner and led in triumph through the streets of Rome. Brutus rallies his forces to a second charge. He is taken prisoner. Antony orders that Brutus be treated kindly, but he dies by his own hand, noble even in death. Antony commends the great character of Brutus: "This man the noblest Roman of them all: All the conspirators, save only he Did that they did in envy of great Caesar; He only, in general honest thought And common good to all, made one of them. His life was gentle, and the elements So mixed in him, that Nature might stand up And say to all the world, 'This was a man!'" The drama "Coriolanus" is a tragedy of pride, the conflict of the plebeians and the patricians in Roman life. Coriolanus was one of the great generals in the last war with the cruel Tarquins about 400 B. C. Later he brought about his own destruction at the hands of the people: LESSON DEPARTMENT "You speak of the people As if you were a god to punish, not A man of their infirmity." The drama "Antony and Cleopatra" is a tragedy of sense, of voluptuous delight, the great classical trilogy of Shakespeare with Rome as the hero, presents a vivid picture of Man and his efforts to organize his Social World. * * * * * Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature. Chapters 10-13.? Macy. 2. Julius Caesar.?Shakespeare. 3. Lives.?Plutarch. 4, Poems.?Horace. B. Program: 1. Music. 2. Discussion. A. The Roman World. B. The Roman View of Life. 3. Review. A. "Julius Caesar." 4, Reading. A. Selections from the poems of Horace. C. Method: It is possible to gain from the selections considered in this lesson an understanding of the influence of the Roman genius for organization. Do not forget to enjoy the portrayal of character by Shakespeare. A Mother's Prayer By Hattie M. Stephenson Those tiny hands that cup my chin, And rouse me from my drowsing hour, They are so pink and soft and warm, They thrill me with their hidden power. His eyes meet mine with happiness, Angelic smiles spread round his lips, "He's mine, all mine," my soul cries out; I tingle to my fingertips. And yet, I seem to hear a voice Say, "Not all yours, dear mother heart; I trust him to your earthly care, Oh, nobly, humbly, take your part." I shake the slumber from my soul, I see as God would have me see, "Oh, help me, Father, rear my son And bring him back in purity. Oh, let these dimpled feet I clasp Stray not far from the path of truth, Oh, let this mother's prayers e'er guide, That he may be a manly youth. I do not ask for thornless trails With flowers growing on each side; For freedom from our earthly cares And cushioned limousines to ride. I do not ask my son to go Through this life's span and know no pain, For only by the rise from loss Will he e'er reach the higher plain. But let my son e'er walk the path That work and prayer and faith lead to; May chastity bedeck his brow To glorify his life in you." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Social Service (Fourth Week in December) THE SLEEP OF CHILDREN LESSON XII As indicated in the material of this lesson, sleep is one of those rhythmic activities on which health is dependent. Practically all social and recreational programs are affected by the habits of sleep that are formed by children. The effect in early childhood is largely on the elders who care for the children. In youth the adjustment is one for the young person himself. This lesson deals with the problem of guidance in the formation of proper sleep habits. The aim is to help class members understand the factors they should control in educating children in proper sleep habits. Suggestions for Procedure: A good method will be to have the class members make individual reports on each topic given for study in the reading guide and in the supplementary material. The class leader can guide the discussion and present at the end a carefully prepared summary of ideas to use in the home. Study Guide for Class Members. Habits, pp. 15-19. This chapter is an application of the suggestions on habit formation to a specific habit. Note the following elements in determining the correct habit to form. A. Amount of sleep. B. Time for sleep ?especially the caution about naps. C. Clothing and undressing. D. Activity preceding going to sleep. E. Conditions furnished at going to sleep time that are to be made uniform, time of day, etc. F. Conditions that should vary? such as bed, clothing, room, bedding, etc. G. Mental attitude about sleep? all three points are very important. Supplementary Material: The material given below is for the purpose of reinforcing by repetition the simple suggestions given in the study material. It represents the conclusions from modern child study and clinical experiences with parents and children. In the weight of authority some ideas are fixed. Holt & Howland: The Diseases of Infancy and Childhood, p. 6. (Appleton?1922. ) (Quoted from Thom, "Every Day Problems of the Every Day Child," p. 73.) "Training in proper habits of sleep should be started at birth. From the outset an infant should be accustomed to being put into his crib while awake and to go to sleep of his own accord. Rocking and all other habits of this sort are unnecessary and even harmful. An infant should not be allowed to sleep on the breast of the nurse nor with the nipple of the bottle in his mouth. Other devices for putting infants to sleep, such as allowing the child to suck a rubber nipple or anything else, are positively injurious. If such means of inducing sleep are resorted to, the infant soon acquires the habit of not sleeping without them. "The hours for going to bed and arising, as well as nap periods, should be firmly and unalterably fixed. LESSON DEPARTMENT There is a great temptation for parents to keep the child up a little later, or put him to bed a little earlier to suit their own convenience, Or perhaps they wish to display the child to friends who are coming for a seven o'clock dinner, " Thom, 73. "One thing more should be added. The child should have the idea firmly fixed in his mind that the sleeping period is the time when he must be alone, that companionship and distraction, such as books and games, are not compatible with sleep, and these things cannot be gained by wailing. The mother who complains that her child does not go to sleep for hours after he goes to bed will invariably tell you also of his demands upon her attention?a glass of water, the closing of a window, 'I want to go to the toilet,' 'I have something to tell you,' ?anything that will attract her notice. Often this attitude of the child toward the mother at night is quite in contrast to his bold adventurous spirit during the day." Thom, 74-75, "A short period of absolute rest from any sort of physical activity, or mental stimulation, just before the child goes to bed, is of value in helping an active child to find sleep soon after retiring. Playing about until the last moment before retiring, or listening to some exciting story or the radio, is often the cause of many restless hours in bed. The thrilling story in the living room often becomes terrifying to the imaginative child once he finds himself in the quiet and dark of the bed chamber." Thom, 76. "If it is necessary for the parents to leave the house after the child has gone to bed, it is much wiser, to tell him honestly that this is to happen. It may be a bit more difficult for the parents the first time, but in the long run it will be more easy for all concerned." Thom, 77. "There is a great difference in the inherent sensitivity that children exhibit toward noise and light, heat and cold, indiscretions in diet, emotional situations, and in fact, any stimuli both internal or external, affecting the nervous system. The average child, however, properly trained in regular hours of sleeping and eating, whose eliminating processes are functioning normally, and whose general regime of living is not dependent on the whims of adults, need have no protection thrown around his sleeping quarters. In fact, it is not difficult for the child to develop the habit that permits him to sleep on in spite of noise, light, or other factors. The ability to short-circuit, so to speak, these stimuli, which ordinarily arrest one's attention, when either awake or asleep, is brought about by experiences often repeated over and over again. It is comparable to the negative adaptation that the stenographer makes, working in a busy office, where the typewriters are constantly clicking. She soon learns to carry on quite unaware of their presence. "It is, therefore, not well to protect the child from everything that might possibly disturb his sleep; in fact, it is much wiser, during his early years, for him to learn to sleep under what might be called adverse conditions. The undue precautions so many parents take in order to secure what they consider ideal conditions for the child may well be the very factor that makes him unduly sensitive in later life." 77-78. "The healthy child should go to sleep within twenty or thirty minutes after going to bed and should get up immediately after awaking. If it should be that the child habitually awakes before the adults of the household arise, some form of amusement should be provided, as it is during these restless periods that mischief often begins." 9. "Dreams and talking or walking in sleep are generally the continuations of the daytime experiences or the expression of subdued fears or denied desires. Boys will live on during a ball game. Children will continue the chatter of a party. Non-athletic boys will perform the denied activities. These are not necessary symptoms of mental disease except as they point to possible fears or desires. "These various activities during sleep are usually of short duration and, if properly managed by parents, need not cause any alarm whatsoever. If, however, the attitude of parents drives the child to further repressions, they may be prolonged indefinitely." Thom, 82. "Baby's sleep may be disturbed in the following ways. He may be excited by being played with or tossed about before going to bed. He may be too warm, too cold, or wet. The room may be too hot, too cold, too light, too noisy, or improperly ventilated. Trips to the movies, shopping, evening visiting, or being kept up to see guests all tend to make the baby wakeful and fretful, and the family should from the first have rigid rules against such practices. "A well baby will sleep. If he is restless or fretful, it may be because he is very tired. Try to discover what may have tired him. Never give the baby soothing syrups, drops or paregoric, many babies die because of these drugs." (Goodspeed & Johnson: Care and Training of Children?Lippincott, 1929, p. 63.) "Giving the child nipples or anything else to suck, being rocked to sleep, or having someone lie down with him, only help to build the habit of not being able to go to sleep unless these conditions are present." G. & J., p. 149. Thom,. Deprivation to the child. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Prepare His Mind for Going to Bed.?The child will not go to bed readily if he is emotionally aroused. Any kind of excitement just before bedtime, such as strenuous play, too many visitors, or a trip to the movies is unwise. He should understand that bedtime is quiet time and that he goes to bed for one purpose only and that is to sleep. This prohibits all distractions. No toys may be taken to bed. No pillow fights or other excitement should be permitted. "The adult dealing with the child at bedtime should speak of going to bed as a pleasant thing to do and should make his voice carry a note of finality, so that the child does not form the habit of teasing to stay up a little longer. After all his physical needs such as a glass of water, and a trip to the bathroom are taken care of, make the last good-night a final one and a firm one. He should understand from the beginning that after good-night is said, it will be useless to try to get attention and ward off sleep by asking for a drink of water; jumping out of bed, singing or talking, asking to go to the toilet or 'just wanting to tell you something.'" G. & J., pp. 149-150. Arlitt: Psychology of Infancy and Early Childhood, McGraw Hill Book Company. "It must be kept in mind in dealing with children of all ages that whereas the adult often enjoys sleep because it is an escape, children find in sleep a cutting off of a series of interesting activities and contacts. What is an escape to the adult is a deprivation to the child. Making the process of going to bed and settling down to sleep more satisfactory than that of staying awake, is, therefore, one of the serious problems in connection with the habits of sleep and rest." 352-353. A FAMOUS OVERALL MADE BETTER STILL! ?NOW THAT MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Are Equipped With Stop Loss Pockets The new, exclusive, patented feature that has aroused the enthusiasm of workmen everywhere. Saves time, saves tools and valuables?and saves temper. THEY COST YOU NO MORE! Ask your dealer for Mountaineer Overalls and Work Suits equipped with Stop-Loss Pockets. Manufactured at Salt Lake City by Z. C. M. I. Clothing Factory NEW EUREKA WITH MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT?EASY TO HANDLE AGREEABLY QUIET This sensational new Eureka with motor-driven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motor-driven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt. Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet?agreeably quiet. The demonstration! It is spectacular ? sensational ? thrilling. Embedded soda fairly "boils" from the rug. Sand dances? how it dances! Surface litter ? lint, hair and threads ? are instantly removed by its motor-driven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster?cleans better. $5.00 Down?Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764 Are You in Style? The peculiar human restlessness which causes us to continually seek new and more becoming designs in hats and dress, automobiles and jewelry, is responsible also for an unceasing change in the styles of type in newspapers, magazines, and advertising matter. The types which today carry the advertisers message are as different from the types of five or ten years ago as are milady's pert, breezy creations of today different from the hats of 1920. Here the advertiser and buyer of printing can depend upon getting his message set in type that is alive with the spirit of today. The Deseret News Press PRINTERS?BINDERS?RULERS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine "SURE DAD, I ALWAYS KNEW BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE WAS BEST?NOW I KNOW WHY." For the past quarter of a century the Beneficial has continuously served its Policyholders faithfully?their savings have been, at all times, immediately available?in cash. In addition to the regular guarantees, the company has paid to Policyholders, dividends each year. THE BIG HOME COMPANY WHERE POLICYHOLDERS SHARE IN THE NET EARNINGS The assets of the Beneficial have increased each year assuring absolute safety?High Policy Reserves make it positive IF YOU CAN'T SAVE TO BUY INSURANCE?BUY INSURANCE TO SAVE BENEFICIAL INSURANCE COMPANY DIRECTORS HEBER J. GRANT GEO. J. CANNON E. T. RALPHS A. W. IVINS B. F. GRANT DAVID O. MCKAY J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. JOS. F. SMITH A. B. C. OHLSON