Priesthood and Womanhood By Leah D. Widtsoe HE question is often asked "What interest has Priesthood to the women of this Church?" Two mission incidents make the discussion of this subject seem timely. Incident Number One occurred in May, 1929, when a large celebration was held in Leipzig, Germany, to honor the one hundredth anniversary of the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood. Members of the Church from all parts of the mission were present, as well as mission authorities and some distinguished American guests. After a most impressive program one of the visiting women turned to me and asked, "What is the meaning of Priesthood to a member of your Church?" I explained briefly that it is the delegated authority of our Father in Heaven restored to men one hundred years ago by Heavenly Beings so that men may act in His name in any official Church capacity. "Do your women hold that Priesthood, so-called?" I explained that women do not directly hold that power nor exercise its authority but that through father or husband they share in its blessings and gifts. Indeed, the highest, sacred ceremonies in the Temple, or House of the Lord, are participated in by man and woman, side by side, and may not be taken by either one alone. "But as an individual woman, or independent unit, woman has no part in exercising that delegated authority?" "No, she has not." - "Then, why are you women here today celebrating the restoration to man alone of a Higher Power, as you consider it?" Then was given an explanation, the gist of which follows later in this discussion. Incident Number Two happened recently. A group of women had been attending a Relief Society meeting while Theology lesson number five of a current series of lessons, "Authority to Act in the Name of God"?was being given. Amongst the group was an intelligent woman, a non-member of the Church. The lesson was discussed paragraph by paragraph. Finally she remarked, "We have discussed this lesson, I have read it through and it doesn't seem to concern women at all. Why should your women study this subject?" Then she asked some of the questions already quoted in incident number one. She continued, "I read from the lesson, "Thus at this early date in the history of the Church the Lord had restored full authority to man to act in His name.... It encourages men to do good and shun evil.... The Priesthood is intended for every son of God who is prepared to receive it. Accordingly, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the Priesthood is widely held by the male laity, as well as by those in official positions. The equality of this practice is immediately apparent, etc.' And the closing paragraph of the lesson reads: 'And this is not all. Every male member in the Church is given some specific duty to perform, especially adapted to his capacity. With a working Priesthood of this nature, far greater efficiency is assured than in churches 596 where the clergy alone are active. Moreover, the Priesthood of the Church possesses the actual authority to act in the name of God, and therefore its works are recognized of Him. " The questioner continued: "Are not women given some specific duty to perform? Or are they a negligible quantity? Woman is not mentioned in any part of the lesson. Are only the 'male laity' able to act for God and therefore is man alone recognized of Him? I would like really to know what the womanhood of your Church has to do with Priesthood?" sions, the above questions, with many others, have been asked by members and friends of the Church. Some of these pertinent questions concerning this subject follow: 1. "What is Priesthood and how does it function?" 2. "Why should God give His sons a power that is deriied His daughters? Should they not be equal in His sight as to status and opportunity to perform the labors of life? Surely a just God has no favorites!" 3. "Are not women as a class just as good and intelligent as men as a class? Then why single out one sex for God's preferment ?" 4, "In this day of 'woman's rights' how do your women react to having men only hold the Priesthood? Do you not feel that you are discriminated against by this same Higher Power?" 5. "If a boy of 12 years has this gift bestowed upon him while his sister has not does it not tend to make him grow up with a feeling that he is literally a 'lord of creation' while his sister belongs to 'the common herd'?" 6. "Does not this discrimination make men more arrogant in their atOn numerous other occa-? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE titude toward women? Do they not necessarily feel themselves the superior and dominant sex?" 7. "Does not this difference in religious status take away from men the chivalry and courtesy that make life association so beautiful and satisfying? Indeed, do you not feel that 'Mormon' men are really less courteous and more imbued with the reaction that the 'Priesthood always precedes,' and are not really and truly as naturally polite as are other men?" This question has often been asked by women who are members of the Church as well as by those who are not. 8. In this day of more general study of modern psychology, the next question is natural, and bears somewhat on the other queries. "Does not the fact that women can- - not hold the Priesthood tend to give them an 'inferiority complex' and therefore make their inner lives less serene and normal?" 9. "What is the effect on the home life of families following the past hundred years of dominance by men who hold the Priesthood?" This question, in a way, includes all the others. 10. "Does not this power tend to cause a feeling of 'sex-rivalry' in the relationship of men and women of this Church?" HE answers to the above questions should be understood by the girls and women of the Church for their own peace and progress, as well as to enable them to answer intelligently all interested questioners. To answer question number one our late Prophet Joseph F. Smith may be quoted, "What is the Priesthood? It is nothing more nor less than the power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the PRIESTHOOD AND WOMANHOOD earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately; not assuming that authority, not borrowing it from generations that are dead and gone, but authority that has been given in this day in which we live by ministering angels and spirits from above, direct from the presence of Almighty God, who have come to the earth in our day and restored the Priesthood to the children of men." It must be understood that the Priesthood is operative for the welfare of the entire human family, not for one class or sex. Men and women share alike in its blessings and resultant joy but for the sake of order and wise government our Heavenly Father delegated the power of presidency in this order to His sons. Therefore man holds the Priesthood and stands before his Maker as the one who is responsible for all official acts in Church capacity for human welfare. "Ts this fair?" one may ask, "Why should not women exercise that power as well as men?" This leads to the answer of question number two: Our Father in Heaven has bestowed upon His daughters a gift of equal importance and power, which gift if exercised in its fulness will so occupy their entire life on earth that they can have no possible longing for that which they do not possess. The "gift" referred to is that of Motherhood?the noblest, most soul-satisfying of all earthly experiences. If this power is exercised righteously, woman has no time nor desire for anything greater, for there is nothing greater on earth. This does not mean that women may not use to the full their special gifts, for they are possessed of human free agency to the same extent as are men. Also, the more they advance and exercise innate qualifications the greater will 597 be their motherhood. However, this power of motherhood is so engrossing that when exercised completely, any added outside demand for time or strength would be a tax and would tend to detract from its great requirements. Woman may claim other activity but motherhood should take precedence in her entire scheme of life. So our Father is entirely just, and does prove His love for His daughters as well as His sons. A QUESTION may here be asked: "But what of the women who through no fault of their own can never exercise their great gift?" The answer is simple: Motherhood can be exercised as universally and vicariously as can Priesthood. The world needs good mothers more than any other one thing. Because a woman has been denied children of her very own is no reason why her God-given power and gift may not be exercised for the countless neglected children in every community whose mothers are unfit or have been taken from earth. All intelligent worth-while work for social betterment in private life or in organized activity is but an enlarged Motherhood acting for the uplift of mankind. And in this field every wouldbe Mother could and should be active. When the Mothers of the world train their children from infancy with a "will for peace' and wars cease on earth then may there be enough good men so that most women may exercise directly their own right to Motherhood. HE next question regarding the intelligence and capability of women as a class is but an enlargement of the others. Does not the training of the human soul for advancement and joy here and hereafter call for the greatest possible powers of mind and heart? Psy- 598 chologists and students generally admit that the first years of life are crucial in determining what shall be the future of the child physically, mentally, morally and_ spiritually. That grave responsibility belongs, by gift divine and right of sex, to the women who bear and nurture the whole race. Surely no right thinking woman could crave more responsibility nor greater proof of innate powers than that. Such power entrusted to women proves conclusively that they have been recognized and trusted. Our Father even chose a daughter of Eve to be the earthMother and guide of His Only begotten Son, and thus honored womanhood for all time and eternity! HE fourth question is answered by simply stating that in this day of "woman's rights," the women inside this Church or out, who feel that they must have more than their womanhood demands, are but shortsighted and do not recognize the full scope of their God-given powers. The struggle for woman's rights is righteous in so far as it claims independence of thought and action, civic equality and economic independence for the mothers of men. It is misdirected if it hopes to give woman man's work to do or encourages her to evade her birthright? motherhood. Truly, there is in reality no discrimination between the sexes as to purpose and power only as human beings make it or permit it. Therefore, all must understand that the Priesthood when exercised righteously unites men and women, it never separates them?unless either group, by their own acts, cuts off its power. QUESTION number five, concerning the attitude of youth to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE - this subject, may well be answered by telling a story of the small brother and sister who were competitively discussing their future. The boy stated he could be an engineer when he grew up and drive a huge engine. The girl said she could be a great musician and thrill great audiences with the joy of her art. The boy retorted that he could be President of the United States. For a while the little girl was somewhat silenced for surely here her brother had the better of the argument. Suddenly a bright thought came. "When I grow up I can be a mother and have a baby all my own and nurse it!" That seemed to silence the lad until his bright thought came, "but I can hold the Priesthood!" Who won? Both of them. Because Father shares with Mother the responsibility and joy of raising the new-born life to useful maturity and motherhood were impossible without a father. So with the Priesthood: man exercises its power but may not partake of its greatest gifts and blessings without the woman by his side. Moreover, the exercise of the Priesthood is for woman's benefitas wellas for man's. From childhood both should be made to understand and prepare for the great gifts and powers that await their maturity and should realize that before the great Judge they are equal. However, since man exercises the responsibility of Priesthood his must be the deciding voice. This is but wise and just because man who carries church and family responsibility should actually be the leader. Leadership is necessary in all smooth-running human institutions; in the home it may be joint leadership through love and mutual understanding.