The Symbol of a Dream Verda Mae Fuller Continuity Wnter, KSL, Salt Lake City, Utah (Prepared under the direction of Mary G. Judd, Member, Relief Society General Board) [Continuity from a recording presented at the annual general Relief Society conference in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Thursday morning, September 30, 1948, at the special session in recognition of the Building Fund achievement. In making the record the parts of living characters were voiced by themselves. ] Narrator: The greatest art of all time will forever be of people, not of things. It was 4 teacher who phrased it thus, and a student who remembered those words.. - - "of people, not of things." Yet we talk of a building. A building that ls structure—stone on stone —wood on wood—marble on marble. It ls, itself, a thing.. Until, we talk of it not alone as a building, but as a dream. Then the building becomes a part of all the people who have dreamed and planned and worked for it. % % * * A part of Zina D. H. Young, who stood, as the third president of our organization, in a Relief Society conference in the Assembly Hall, over half a century agO.--- (Fave) ZINA: The Relief Society needs a house of its own. The women of the Church have done so much to help build other public buildings and temples that they have no means to build one for the Relief Society. Narrator: It is a part of Sarah M. Kimball, who was the general secretary of the Relief Society and who spoke at that same conference, that day in 1896..-- SARAH: I feel it's a humiliation to be without a place of our own. We've contributed to all public places. Now we want to have a house, and we want land to build it on and it should be in the shadow of the temple. It should be a place to receive strangers in when they come, a place where letters can be written from, and information given. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the sisters in Nauvoo a lot belonging to the Church and a house on it which could be repaired and made useful. We need a house of our own here. Now I want to ask you sisters if you want such a building as I have described. (SOUND: VOICES IN APPROVAL. ) Narrator: 'They wanted it, of course. The voting was unanimous. But it takes more than votes to build a building. It took, among other things, the Sunday eggs. LITTLE GIRL: Oh goody, Mamma! Forty-eight of 'em today. MOTHER: That's just grand, Betsy. Put 'em in the case. LITTLE GIRL: The Relief Society Case, Mamma? MOTHER: Yes, Dear. Page 88 THE SYMBOL OF A DREAM 89 FATHER: Hmmm! Forty-eight! Looks to me like you've got those hens on your side, Emmy. I swear they never lay like that any other day of the week. (FADE) Narrator: Yes, it took the Sunday eggs. And it took the wool from the wire fences and posts and bushes after the flocks had left the enclosure. (FADE) MOTHER: There's some more down by that post, Betsy. BETSY: Oh, Mamma! Haven't we got enough now? MOTHER: Run down and get it. The exercise'll do you good. BETSY: You mean it'll do the Relief Society good! Narrator: Yes, it took the wool. And it took the wheat— wheat gleaned from the fields after the harvesters had gone—Relief Society wheat—a story in itself. To build that building took the co-operative help of the Mutual and Primary Associations. President Lorenzo Snow spoke of the joint project in the pages of the Woman's Exponent in July of 1901: PRESIDENT SNOW: We commend the undertaking and have contributed a valuable building site opposite the temple, valued at $18,000. The women must have $20,000 before commencing the house. NARRATOR: $20,000! That was a lot of money for those days. But Sister Zina was not discouraged. Before a year passed, though, both she and President Lorenzo Snow had been called to the other side. Joseph F. Smith was the next Church President; Bathsheba W. Smith the next Relief Society President. Under her leadership funds continued to be collected for the women's building. But in 1908, the plans were changed; and it was decided that they should include quarters for the Presiding Bishopric. Thus the dream of a woman's building, as such, had to be abandoned temporarily. We contributed $8,000 towards the construction of the Bishop's Building, as it came to be called, and moved into our offices there in December 1909. We've appreciated the offices, yes. But you know how you feel when you've been living with relatives and then get a chance to move into a home of your own. And sometimes, the relatives are a little anxious, too. Elder Marvin O. Ashton had a colorful way of expressing it, when in our Relief Society conference three years ago, he said in his own humorous way: BISHOP ASHTON: If we are perfectly honest with you, and sometimes we are, we should say something like this to President Spafford, "Success to you in this building." And as the host said to his guests, "Here's your hat, but what's your hurry?" Our building over there is crowded. You need a new building and so do we need more elbow room. Success to you! I hope I have the privilege of contributing to it. And I'm sure I won't be denied. Narrator: Today, we talk of our building as a dream about to be fulfilled. We talk of it as Sister Spafford did in October conference, three years ago: 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 SISTER SPAFFORD: We want our building to belong to the women of the Church, and to have every Relief Society woman feel the pride of ownership in it. We want it to do more than house the general offices. We want it to be of service to all of you. We expect to include in it a comfortable lounge, where you may come and rest, write a letter, or meet a friend; check-rooms where you may leave your bundles; a relic room where choice articles of historic value may be preserved and displayed; an auditorium; well-equipped work and exhibition kitchens where homemaking demonstrations and lectures may be given. And we would like at this time to know your attitude towards the proposed building program. 'Therefore, just as our sisters of long ago called for a vote on this identical proposition, so today, forty-nine years later, we too are calling for a vote of this great congregation. (SOUND: VOICES IN APPROVAL.) Narrator: Again the voting was unanimous. Yes, we talk of a building. And talk of it was high that conference day in 1945. President George Albert Smith said: PRESIDENT SMITH: It's appropriate that you women of the Church of Jesus Christ, the only Church that bears his name by divine authority, should have a home of your own into which you can invite the spirit of the Lord when you hold your meetings. I realize you have been disappointed in the past; you thought you had a house of your own once before, but it turned out to be the Presiding Bishop's office also. But now your prospect seems better, and as you think about it and plan for it, you will be very happy. I don't care how fine it is, it will not be better than you deserve. There isn't anything too good for you as long as you keep the commandments of the Lord. You may be sure that if you do your part, the Lord will do his. Narrator: "If you do your part, the Lord will do his." It is good to know as we dream our building that our sisters of the past have done their part—just as you, in a large measure, have done yours. It is symbolic that the library of the building we dream will carry many precious documents and words—the words, for example, of Sister Lucy Mack Smith, the mother of the Prophet Joseph, who, in the second meeting the Relief Society organization ever held, said: LUCY SMITH: This institution is a good one. We must cherish one another; watch over one another and gain instruction, that we may all sit down in heaven together. Narrator: And we have cherished one another. As Sister Marianne Sharp put it: SISTER SHARP: Ever since Sister Lyman appointed Sister Spafford and me to help prepare the book, A Centenary of Relief Society, to commemorate the hundredth birthday of the society, I have felt very near to the Relief Society leaders of the past and the faithful members who are the mothers, the grandmothers, and even greatgrandmothers of the members today. They have stepped out alive to me from the pages of the Woman's Exponent, and from the minutes of the general board. Their testimonies have increased my testimony. I have shared in their joys and sorrows. Narrator: And when you look at the portraits of our Relief Society leaders of the past, you know what Sister Sharp means. You see a solidarity of purpose shining in their eyes. You sense their courage and their faith. And it is a thrill to know that in the building of which we THE SYMBOL OF A DREAM 91 speak, they, too, will be personalities. We do not leave them behind; we take them with us; and we are greater because of them. They dreamed this building along with us, and it will be theirs, too—a building great because its purposes are great—because it will bear the name of a society whose purpose it is to serve the people, to comfort the sorrowful, to minister to the sick and the dying, to clothe the naked, and to soothe the distressed; to serve human need wherever it exists, as it will ever exist. And in this we can do no better than to beseech the Father that he give us charity and the pure love of Chnist. VOICE (Echoing... Resonant) Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock (Matt. 7:24-25). Narrator: Our building has not yet been erected, but our prayer is that we, and the sisters who have gone before us, have succeeded in laying for it, the foundation our Lord would have us lay—a foundation of true charity unto his people. [Lighting of foundation of building.] Charity never faileth! RECOGNITION MEETING STAKES AND MISSIONS HONORED FOR BUILDING FUND ACHIEVEMENT Salt Lake Tabernacle, September 30, 1948 Representatives of stakes and missions are seen standing below and to the sides of the pulpits, directly in front of the audience. The Singing Mothers are seated in the choir seats. The replica of the building may be seen in front of the organ pipes.