Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and 15, 1889 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF Att NATIONS" e TRUTH Thou brightest of all earthly gems, How much I think of thee; Whether in mansions of the great, In wide domain and vast estate: Or in the cottage of the poor, In workman's shop or merchant's store: Upon the land or on the sea, There is nothing ever outshines thee. —Charlotte Cruse Thorpe FAIR AT ST. JOSEPH: There was a very fine display of useful and ornamental articles on exhibition; also quilts, tidies, home-made carpets and rugs, all being worthy of praise. A fine representation of statuary, including a large bust of President Brigham Young, which attracted much attention; also a display of seri-culture, millinery, etc. We had on exhibition the finest of corn raised from the second crop after barley was harvested in July; also turnips weighing seven pounds, both raised by Bishop John Taylor, of Pima, and sweet potatoes weighing eleven pounds, raised by Bro. Frank Owens. Although too late in the season for a display of fruit, there was quite a variety of a supetior quality raised in the valley this year. We have seen peaches measuring from nine to eleven inches, and bunches of grapes weighing from four to five pounds. —W. East, Prest., L. Gustafson; Sec. A PRAYER God of Thy children below, Father, Redeemer and King, Help us Thy hand e'er to know; And in all of the perils of life To cling to Thine Anchor of love, To guide through the billows of strife. —Hope TOOELE STAKE: Minutes of the Relief Society which convened in the Tooele meeting house, Dec. 8th and oth, 1888, Prest. Mary A. Hunter presiding. There were present from Salt Lake City, Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Bathsheba W. Smith. Sister Zina D. H. Young gave some very good and interesting instructions to all, and to mothers especially, and spoke by the Spirit of God. Said, "Mothers have a great work to do and a great mission to fill in raising up their children in a proper manner. Our children who are obedient to the Gospel are a great and shining light, and we should be very careful to set a good example before them, so that they may walk in our footsteps."—Ann Tate, Cor. Sec. NOTES AND NEWS: Smith College, Mass., has received a gift of $5,000 toward a gymnasium. The donor was a woman. The Queen of Sweden has given a large donation to the Dress Reform Society, to enable them to open a store in Stockholm. The girl mail-carrier, of Oregon, whose home is near Eugene City, bears the euphonious name of Minnie Westman. Page 98 f ) fetees oe \A) Ry ae FY CZ iy, BxCEPT for one Copenhagen publisher, Mrs. Alfred Knopf is the only woman in the world who is a major book publisher. She is vicepresident to her husband in the Knopf firm, and personally handles the writings of such writers as William Shirer, Robert Nathan, and Elizabeth Bowen. BLIZABETH June Barlow, who won the title "Miss Utah" last fall in the talent and beauty contest at the State Fair, is an active Latterday Saint girl, a member of the Tabernacle Choir and a ward chorister. A lovely blonde, with a winning smile, Miss Barlow feels that the training received while fulfilling her Church assignments was an important factor in her winning the crown. Singing is the talent she demonstrated. ISS GENEVIEVE RIVIER, of Lausanne, Switzerland, author and world traveler who is writing a book on America, called attention to a noteworthy situation, while visiting in Salt Lake City. A very high percentage of Swiss families shared what they had—and in many cases it was not a great deal—with one or more refugee children, sometimes over a long period, during the war. They harbored a great many French and Dutch children. @)