[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: ABIGAIL GLOYDE HYDE. | Author: M. F. C]

ABIGAIL GLOYDE HYDE.

	Abigail Gloyde Hyde was the daughter
of Charles Gloyde and Abigail Pratt. She
was born in Cunnington, Hampshire Co.,
Massachusetts, November 16, 1820; this
was also the birthplace and early home of
the poet William Cullen Bryant.
	Her parents were among the early fami-
lies of New England. Her grandfathers
Gloyde and Pratt both served their country
with honor in the Revolutionary war	She
spent her early years at home with her
parents and attending school. Her father
was engaged in the manufacture of woolen
goods, being the proprietor of a woolen
factory. At the age of eighteen Abigail
left school with a good common school edu-
cation and commenced work in the factory.
She had early been taught the habit of in-
dustry and was a constant worker through-
out life. She also had a veneration for
sacred things, but was quiet and unpreten-
tious in her disposition. She heard the
Gospel as revealed by the Prophet Joseph
in her early youth, and was strongly im-
pressed with the truth thereof.
	In 1840 Elder William Hyde performed
a mission in the Eastern states, and Janu-
ary 16 of that year baptized Abigail Gloyde
and two of her cousins, Sarah and Lucy
Pratt. Her mother subsequently joined
the Church. She had a constant desire to
gather with the Saints, but as her father
had not embraced the Gospel she deferred
her emigration until 1859, after her mother’s
death, when she resolved to start alone and
join with the Saints in the Rocky moun-
tains. Her cousin, Sarah Pratt, joined her
in the expedition, and on May 11, 1859,
these two young women left the homes of
their parents and all their pleasant sur-
roundings and started for the gathering
place of the Saints. Sister Abigail’s father
accompanied her fifty miles to Albany, New
York, where they joined a company of
seven hundred Saints presided over by
Elder George Q. Cannon, en route to Salt
Lake City.
	The company chartered a train and
journeyed to St. Joseph, Missouri. Here
they prepared for the ox team journey
across the plains. Sister Abigail having
been very industrious in the woolen factory
had earned and saved several hundred dol-
lars. With a portion of this she purchased
three yoke of oxen and two wagons. One
they loaded with goods the other they used
for riding and sleeping in. The women
might have driven their own team but one
of the brethren desired to do the work for
them in order to procure a ride for his wife.
They had a very pleasant ride over the
plains with which they were much de-
lighted, Sister Abigail walked most of the
way. They were ninety-six days traveling
from the Missouri river, arriving in Salt
Lake valley, October 11, 1859.
	For a month Sister Abigail and her
cousin made their home at Abraham R.
Wright’s, who had charge of the company
crossing the plains. Subsequently they
were taken to the home of Elder Hyde in
Lehi, who had baptized them.
	On January 1, 1860, Abigail and her
cousin were both married to William Hyde
and went to live in Lehi. Subsequently
they went with Brother Hyde to Cache
Valley and were among the first settlers of
Hyde Park, the place bearing the name of

[Column 2]
Elder Hyde and over which he was Bishop
until his death in 1874.
	The first summer they lived in wagons
and tents. Sister Hyde was very indus-
trious during these labors of settling a new
place and cheerfully adapted herself to the
situation. She was the first president of
the Relief Society in Hyde Park and filled
the position with credit and satisfaction for
a number of years, through her entire ad-
ministration. She brought from her labors
in the factory in Massachusetts over seven-
teen hundred dollars, which was very oppor-
tune for those hard times.
	Brother Hyde purchased a carding mill
in Logan and Sister Abigail being very
anxious to earn something to help herself
to a livelihood, and being the only one in
that section who understood carding, went
to Logan and worked in the mill for a
term of years. Subsequently she went to
work in the Co-operative Store in Hyde
Park, and proved herself in this capacity a
most efficient business woman and  was
scrupulously honest in all her transactions.
She continued in this employment for
several years after the death of her husband,
when the store went into other hands. Be-
ing left without employment she went to
Logan City and again took up her abode
six days in the week in the carding mill.
She continued in this labor several years.
	In the former years of her labors in the
carding mill when the business was so
flush that the mill had to run day and
night, Sister Hyde would run the mill from
midnight until noon, when she would be
released by an able bodied man: and thus
for a long time she did the work which was
laborious enough for a strong man, and
which few women could do.
	She was postmistress of Hyde Park for
twelve years, and while absent working in
the carding mill her cousin Sarah, who
lived in the same house, filled the place as
deputy. Her reports and transactions were
always correct, giving the best of satisfac-
tion to all concerned.
	During this busy life of constant indus-
try and hard labor she bore three children,
two sons and one daughter, all of whom
survive her and are active, faithful Latter-
day Saints. The eldest son is now the
Bishop of Hyde Park.
	During the past few months Sister Hyde
was afflicted with paralysis, and passed
peacefully away without a struggle at 1:35
a. m., Tuesday, January 10, 1899. Her
children were all present at her bedside
during her last moments. She leaves two
sons and a daughter, six grandsons and
three granddaughters to mourn her loss.
	Her funeral was held in Hyde Park at
noon, Saturday 14th inst., and was attended
by the family and many loving friends.
Consoling and instructive remarks were
made by Presidents S. M. Molen, Orson
Smith and Elder Matthias Cowley. The
grave was dedicated by Bishop William
Hyde of the 5th ward of Logan, and thus
was laid to rest the remains of one of the
noblest of women, honest, chaste, benevo-
lent, industrious and faithful to the trust
reposed in her throughout life, from child-
hood to the grave. She fell asleep in the
hope of a glorious resurrection. She will
receive a crown of eternal lives in the
resurrection of the just.
						M. F. C.


If a man has no trials and tribulations he
is unable to appreciate happiness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


