[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: THE SILK WORM AND ITS SILK | Author: Unknown]

THE SILK WORM AND ITS SILK

	When Noah was a little boy, about 150
or 200 years old, and hundreds of years be- 
fore he received Divine instructions to con-
struct the Ark, when not far to the west-
ward of Mount Ararat where the Ark rested
after the flood, and just across the Caspian
Sea, a little Chinese girl (she was about 14
years old) named Si-ling chi, the wife of the
Emperor Hoang-ti, was watching one day
early in the spring, with astonishment the
movements of some caterpillars that were
feeding upon the leaves of a mulberry tree.
Day by day she watched and day by day
the caterpillars grew rapidly.
	She noticed that as they moved their
heads from side to side that a liquid, gum-
my substance appeared to issue from their
mouths and soon change into a soft and
downy thread. She used to go every day
and watch the caterpillars working. Bye
and bye, when the cocoons were formed,
she had the curiosity to take one in her
hand and examine it. She found it about
the size and shape of a peanut; from it a
number of loose threads floated about.
Pulling one of them she found it was so
light it would float in the air, yet so tough
she could pull off quite a length of it. It
occured to her that if these cocoons could be
softened she could obtain a longer thread
of the silk and be able to use it. After
some study she soaked the cocoons in
warm water and began pulling on the
thread. To her delight it grew longer and
longer, and she wound it around her fingers
till the cocoon was all unwound, and then
she found she had a continuous thread
3,000 to 4,000 feet long. In her girlish
glee she turned to her waiting woman and
exclaimed, “Hoo-le-ma, (See;) Ming-hing
haynung,” (Look ! How beautiful!) The
silk when reeled was a bright golden color
and doubtless it is from this fact the Chi-
nese are so fond of yellow, it being the
royal color of their country.
	Si-ling-chi’s industry did not end here,
for she went several steps further and
taught the ladies of her palace to manu-
facture and embroider silk. Not only the
emperor, but Mandarins and others ap-
peared in public robed in fabrics of dazzling
hues.
	For many years the Chinese guarded
well the secret of the source of their im-
mense wealth, for raw silk was imported
all over Asia, India, Persia and Arabia.
There are two legends as to how the secret
got out. One is that some monks conveyed
the eggs in their staffs over the border; the
other is that the pantless little fellow Cupid
had a hand in it.
	The first known place outside of Asia
where silk was cultivated was the Island of
Cos. The cloth woven in this country
was of the thinnest possible texture and
transparent. Justinian secured a monopoly
of the trade. Under the care of the Greeks
the silk worm took kindly to its Western
home and their silken textures became
famous. At a later period the Saracens
maintained a mastery over the trade and
by them it was spread east and west.
	The eggs of the silk worm are deposited
by a moth known as the Bombyx mori,
which lays about 350 of them. After im-
pregnating the female the male dies. He
rarely survives more than four or five
hours. The female lives two or three
days to deposit the egg. When first de-
posited they are a beautiful bright hue, but
they soon turn color, becoming dull and

[Column 2]
dark. She never deposits the eggs in a
heap, that is to say her eggs are never laid
one top of the other. What her purpose is
in spreading them out I do not know. That
is a habit of which there is no intelligent
explanation. The male is a little fellow,
creamy in color and much livelier than his
mate. He flutters about while the female
remains still. Her brief life is spent with-
in a radius of six inches. They neither
eat nor drink, having no mouths. They
are born only for a reproductive purpose.
Having deposited her eggs the female fol-
lows the male into the Great Unknown.
The eggs hatch out the following spring.
Its product is dark and covered with fine
hair. One hundred will weigh a grain and
at maturity the same one hundred will
weigh 9,500 grains. The little worms are
fed on young mulberry leaves. They go
on feeding and growing rapidly for a few
days, then refuse food, for two days they
remain in a torpid state after which they
cast their skins, which do not seem to grow
apace with the rest of their bodies. Then
they go on feeding and growing when the
same thing occurs. In all they cast their
skins four times and go through five ages,
they have about thirty-one days of eating
and nine days of fasting. Then sets in a
brief era of unrest during which they
wander about moving their heads, which is
preliminary to the final act of their strange
and wonderful career. Having found a
suitable place they commence throwing
from their spinneret the airy filament
which they have been storing up since they
began feeding. The spinneret is a very
small orifice below the mouth. Around
and around the body the filament is wound,
the worm making the silk a tomb for itself.
To this purpose the rest of its life is steadi-
ly devoted. It makes sixty-five motions of
its head every minute, or a total of three
hundred thousand to spin its cocoon. Dur-
ing this time (a minute) the filament flows
from four to six inches from the spinneret.
Its labor done, the legs drop off and death
intervenes.
	In the cocoon, however, is the pupa, or
chrysalis with no chance of escape. How-
ever there is a way out. In ten or fifteen
days the moth is developed and it ejects
against the end of the cocoon a secretion
which softens the gum, and pushing some
of the threads aside and breaking others,
the moths issue to play their part in the re-
productive process already described. So it
goes on indefinitely. This is all that is
known or can be known of the silk worm.
It eats and works. The laws that govern
its being are arbitrary and inflexible. From
these laws it seems to have no desire to es-
cape Where the conditions are favorable
it goes right on about its business, carrying
out the designs of its Creator and finally
yielding up its brief life in obedience to a
mandate as irrevocable as our own fate,
whatever it may be when we are called to
account. By what so called instinct it is
governed I cannot say. I cannot answer
that any more than I can solve any one of
the numberless profound problems which
we see about us. Its purpose most proba-
bly, is to provide a home for the chrysalis,
and to do that it sacrifices its own life. The
perpetuation of its species seems to be its
only aim, and in carrying out this purpose
it plays into the hands of man.
	A singular thing about the spinning pro-
cess is that the thread is never tangled.
Row after row of it is completed, the worm
never beginning a new one, until the old


one is finished. Then man steps in and
after stifling the pupa, unwinds the cocoons
with a filature. The cocoons are at first
hard and unyielding. They are softened in
warm water with a little soap. The ends
are gathered up with a probe to which they
attach themselves while in the water, and
then the filature unwinds them and they
become raw silk.
THE COCOONS.
	The cocoons from which the moths are
allowed to escape are taken with the waste,
that is, the silk thrown out by the worm
before it commences its cocoon, and con-
verted into spun silk,and used in the manu-
facture of inferior goods. The method of
manufacture consists in cleaning and
macerating the raw material, after which it
is carded and made into thread somewhat
after the manner of cotton.
	Cocoons vary in length from 300 to
1,800 yards in one continuous thread which
is 10/213 of an inch in diameter composed
of two fibers. Sixty thousand cocoons,
which would be produced from 1 1/2 oz. of
eggs, would produce enough silk to girdle
the earth at the equator.
	Ten to twelve pounds of leaves con-
sumed by the worms produce one pound of
cocoons. Three and three quarters pounds
of cocoons yield one pound (16 ozs.) of raw
silk, and one pound of raw silk produces,
when degummed, 12 ozs. of pure silk, one
pound of which with the assistance of dye-
stuffs, make twenty yards of a heavy im-
ported gros-grain. Twelve thousand
pounds of raw silk, or the product of about
50,000,000 worms are used weekly by a
leading American firm in the manufacture
of spool silk alone. Over $100,000,000
were expended in the United States during
the year 1888 for silk. In colored silks
35,000 shades or tints can be dyed. Black
silk fabrics can be adulterated five hundred
per cent. Pure dye silks are almost inde-
structible, 16-oz. dye being the best for
service.
