The Most Important Aspect of Christmas Elder Stephen L Richards Member of the Council of the Twelve
MANY years ago I was privileged to be present at the dedication of the Hawaiian Temple at beautiful Laie. The services were held daily for several days in the Celestial Room. On one occasion there was carried into the services an old Hawaiian woman. She was too feeble to walk, and she was placed by two men in a comfortable chair very near to where I sat. I observed her carefully. She was very old. Her pallid, wrinkled skin hung loosely on the bones of her face and hands. She was exceedingly thin and wasted. I discovered that she was blind. She lay in the chair, perfectly still and seemed almost lifeless. She showed no signs of interest in any of the proceedings until the president of the Hawaiian Mission began to speak in her native tongue. It was the practice to have the proceedings interpreted in substance for the benefit of those who could not understand English. I was not familiar with the language of the interpreter but I gathered that he was explaining the purpose of the Temple and its work, setting forth the beautiful blessings of the endowment ceremony, the vicarious work for dead ancestors and the enduring relationships created under the power of the holy Priesthood. I watched the effect of these explanations on the dear old lady who sat beside me. She seemed, as if by some strange power, to come to life. A light shone in her poor, blind eyes. Her countenance brightened. A smile was on her lips. She raised her frail body in the chair and sat alert and attentive. I think I have never seen such a quick and complete transformation in a human personality and I think, too, I have never witnessed a more impressive and soulful appreciation of Gospel principle than I did on that occasion. I have never forgotten the circumstance and whenever a time comes for the expression of deep-seated gratitude and true thanksgiving, as it does this Christmas season, I think back on the old lady in the Temple. If only the understanding, the appreciation and the vision of all men could be opened and stimulated as hers was, what a different world we should have!
BY every measurement the most important aspect of Christmas is the coming of the Christ and His glorious Gospel, the true way of life. It seems very unfortunate that the festivities of the holiday season have so often crowded the central theme out of the popular mind. Santa Claus, gifts and happiness were originally intended to symbolize the Christ, the Savior of the world, the supreme gift of the Father to His children, the benefactions coming from the Master, and the holy joy of the race in contemplation of these blessings. But the symbols, with many, have become the verities and Christmas has lost its meaning. It is sad that it is so, particularly at a time when sincere appreciation of the true significance of the day would mean so much to a grief-torn world.
Much as I could hope that it might be otherwise, I shall not be surprised to learn that on the natal day of our Lord and Savior, cities and villages and homes will be bombed, ships will be sunk, and war, with all its devastation and horror, will be prosecuted with its usual ferocity, hatred and malice. How can it be so? How can men so ignore the Author of mercy, kindness, brotherly love and all the finer virtues with which the race has been endowed? I am not sure that I can answer that question to the satisfaction of many people, but I am certain that there are vital and important considerations to which attention must be given before an adequate answer is found.
PERHAPS the foremost need of the world today is the recognition of the Lordship of Jesus, the Christ. When He is accepted for what He said He was, men will not marvel at the miracle of His life nor will they ignore the precepts of His law. The attributes of Jesus are the standards of perfection in human living. Kindliness, sympathy, tolerance, mercy, forbearance, charity in judgment, loyalty, justice, integrity and abiding love are Christian virtues that lie at the foundation of the idealism of the race. These and the incomparable concepts of the good neighbor—doing unto others as you would be done by—and the abundant life, losing one's life in the service of others that he may save it—are the soundest and truest philosophies in the society of man and the way to happiness.
Such inestimable contributions to the human family, coming from the life and works of the Master, however great and beautiful, are, in this recognition of which I speak, to be considered but attributes and derivatives of the outstanding things which really command our veneration and our worship. Unfortunately for the world, too many Christian men have knelt at the shrine of the attributes and denied the authority and sovereignty of the King. As a man endowed with great and superior wisdom and far-reaching insight into the lives and characters of men, He might have given to the world His transcendent philosophies and His incomparable formula for living, but as a man, He could not have power over death, He could not rise from the grave, He could not make resurrection possible for the whole human race. It took a God to do that. It is this recognition of Christ as God which is indispensable to true Christianity. It is not the indifferent who do not care to take the time and trouble to bother about religion; it is not the humanists who may have a reverent admiration for Jesus as the Great Teacher of all time but deny His divinity; it is not the formalists who stress the form and pageantry in religion, who are effectively advancing the cause of Christianity in the earth, Rather it is those, very often humble folk, who accept literally and unequivocally the fundamental Christian doctrines, who have received in their hearts the testimony of Jesus, who accept the philosophy of faith, who believe that the Kingdom of Christ has been established in the world and that His Kingdom shall ultimately triumph over all other kingdoms and opposing forces and that Christ, a deified, personal Being is the Head of the Kingdom and will hereafter return to the earth to resume personal supervision thereof—it is these people of genuine faith upon whom the world must rely for the promotion and establishment of the brotherhood of man in the Kingdom of God.
SOMETHING else besides this recognition of the Lordship of Christ is also essential. That something is a knowledge of the true interpretation of the Gospel of the Savior. This true interpretation is also a new interpretation for the great preponderance of the inhabitants of the earth because, unfortunately, they have not become acquainted with it. This new interpretation is a product of latter-day revelation and constitutes a complete restoration in its fullness of the Gospel of the Redeemer. I cannot but think that if men came to know the import and vitality of this new interpretation their appreciation of the Christian faith would be greatly enhanced.
This new interpretation sets forth the dominance of intelligence. I believe I am correct in the assertion that in all Christian literature prior to the advent of Joseph Smith there were to be found no such concepts of the origin, function and place of intelligence in the universe as come from our modern scripture. Here are some excerpts: —
"Intelligence or the light of truth was not created or made, neither indeed can be."
"The glory of God is intelligence or in other words light and truth."
"Whatever principle of intelligence we attain to in this life it will rise with us in the resurrection."
These and other scripture convince us that intelligence is the chief investiture of man. Indeed it is man, for it is that part of his constituency that persists, that is eternal. This knowing, conceiving, illuminating principle of existence lies at the base of all our powers and potentialities. This conception of intelligence justifies the eternal quest for knowledge and it does more. It explains the necessity of acquiring knowledge for it makes knowledge essential to progression and progression in the last analysis is salvation. It places a terrific penalty on ignorance. It lays down a new and very definite gospel doctrine that "it is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance."
The world in general and the modern world in particular, with its science, scholasticism and technology has been prone to scorn and slur religion and the church for an alleged backwardness and retardation in intellectual processes and in the acquisition of knowledge. Whatever justification there may have been in times past for such an imputation, this new interpretation of the Gospel is a complete refutation of such disparaging allegations and inferences of the secular world. The Gospel of Christ offers a stimulus and a reward in the pursuit of knowledge and the development of intelligence that transcend in their appeal and promise anything that the students and philosophers have ever evolved. But the knowledge and intelligence that it rewards must be true. "Light and truth" are the words of the revelation. It places no premium upon the acquisition of falsehood and error. It distinguishes very clearly between sophistication and true intelligence. In all the learning of the world there is nothing of higher import for the mind of man to comprehend than the eternal principles and truths that pertain to exaltation in the presence of God and there is no higher order of intelligence than that which enables man to perceive these glorious truths.
In this new interpretation there is a unique and distinctive conception of the family of God. God, the Master Intelligence, is the Creator and veritable Father of His children, the lesser but potentially divine intelligences who make up His family and populate His Kingdom. As a kindly parent, He desires and designs the eternal welfare and happiness of His offspring. In modern revelation His purpose is clarified as never before in recorded scripture. It is the glory of God to "bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" and "men are that they might have joy." These are the sublime declarations revealed in latter-days, forever banishing all doubt and uncertain speculation as to the place and purpose of man in the universe.
"In what does the joy of man consist? There are two things, first, an eternal progression in intelligence, knowledge and power, that leads to perfection, even as Christ is perfect; and second, companionship with God in His presence and in the presence of His Son."
This pronouncement of the purpose of our being, together with additional revelations, brings a new concept of heaven. By the perfection of our lives we achieve joy and come into the presence of God. Where is He? He is in His own Kingdom. Are there other kingdoms? Yes. And in that revealed knowledge we learn the truths about heaven. There are other kingdoms referred to but not fully explained by St. Paul and also indicated in "the many mansions of my Father's house" spoken of by the Savior. These scriptures have been fully amplified by the new interpretation. Kingdoms of eternity have been defined. Laws that govern the various kingdoms have been set forth and entrance requirements stipulated. There are preferential places and conditions in the hereafter, as there are here. The highest and most desirable is the Celestial Kingdom of our Father. In that Kingdom and only there do intelligences attain their highest state of perfection. Only there do we have assurance of the reunion of families and the perpetuation of family relationship and eternal increase. In that Kingdom man may ultimately become divine.
The scriptures give us to understand that through the general atonement of the Savior all mankind will be resurrected from the grave and come forth in a life hereafter, but we know that the atonement itself is not adequate to place us in the Celestial Kingdom, in which respect we distinguish between the general salvation of the human family brought about by the Redeemer of the world and the exaltation of the individual accomplished by his own works and faithfulness through the mediation of Christ.
Through the revealed justice of God the sublime blessings of the Celestial Kingdom are extended, not only to all the living, but to the dead as well. It is not designed that the accident of death shall circumscribe the free agency of man to choose and attain his ultimate destiny. Since, however, it is in the plan that certain ceremonies and ordinances which are requisite for entrance into the highest kingdom shall be performed in mortality, merciful provision has been made whereby the living may vicariously perform these ordinances for the dead. I think of all Christian service, vicarious work for the dead is the most Christ-like. It often entails great sacrifice. The beneficiary is not here, even to give thanks. It is true benevolence.
I SET down these phases of the new interpretation of the Gospel of Christ because I regard them as indispensable to a real appreciation of the love and benevolence of our Savior. They are but a few of the inestimable contributions coming from the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The items I have mentioned may furnish some part of the answer to the momentous question: Why has Christianity failed to more effectively influence the conduct of men and nations? If the true Gospel has not been understood, could it reasonably be expected to be very potent?
I like to think of humanity as naturally good, not bad. We know that the spirit of God strives with man for his uplift and advancement. There is justification for merciful judgment on humanity. Our Father will not hold him accountable to the law who does not know the law. Deep in the hearts of the true disciples of Christ is the enduring conviction that when mankind reaches a true conception of the beautiful, vital, saving principles of the Gospel of Christ there will be eager acceptance on the part of many of our Father's children who are now in darkness.
So, this Christmas time, dark and gloomy as the picture of the world appears, is not an occasion for despair and defeatism. Christ is not dead, although He has been mocked in many lands. His doctrines are not impotent, much as they have been ignored. While Christian hearts must ever grieve for human sufferings, yet they can rejoice in a supreme faith that out of all the will of God will prevail and that truth and righteousness will triumph.
What a benediction it is that the body of the Church of Christ set up to proclaim the glad tidings of great joy throughout the earth and to foster peace and good will among men and lay the foundations for the Kingdom of God should be established in the safest and most protected spot in the most secure and best governed nation in all the wide world. What a depth of gratitude this realization should stir within the heart of every true Latter-day Saint, not so much for mere personal safety as for extended and glorious opportunity from such a point of vantage to spread the Gospel of peace and love among the children of men. In such kindly service only may we find adequate expression for the birth, the life and works of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior.