Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Hawaiian Mission. The following interesting letter has been received by the General Board from the Relief Society presidency of the Hawaiian mission: "Dear Sisters: The general conference for the Island of Oahu was held at Laie, October 24 and 25. The Relief Society session was the first meeting of the conference. It was held in the chapel at Laie, Saturday afternoon at two o'clock. The officers and members of the various associations of this Island came in good numbers. The Priesthood of the Islands were also well represented in the meeting. "We felt very greatly blessed by the presence of Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde of the General Board. Her wise counsel added a very much needed touch of efficiency to the work of the Relief Society conference. "After a splendid program of lesson demonstrations and music, Dr. Herbert Wood of Waialua, a prominent local physician, gave us a well prepared talk on social vices and the results of the same on the life of the community. President Eugene J. Neff of the mission, sounded the keynote of the conference in his inspiring address on the purity and chastity of living. This proved to be the principal theme in all the meetings of the conference. "Our lesson work for the coming year has been translated and prepared by President William M. Waddoups, of the temple. It is now off the press and work on the same will begin the first of the New Year. The lessons as prepared are to deal with the important subject, The Divinity of Christ, his mission, work, parables, etc. The standard works of the Church must be our guide here in lesson work, as they are the only proper, available texts in the Hawaiian language. Our Relief Society work is well organized in the various conferences and branches of the mission. Our sisters are doing good work and are a strength to the work of the Church in this land. "We are trying to stress and encourage the Saints in temple work, impressing them with the necessity and sacredness of the same, assisting them as much as possible in the collection and preparation of their genealogies. This is a difficult work as the Saints here have not been a record-keeping people, and genealogies 
 are very hard to find. The Hawaiian was not a written language until recent years, and records were kept by memory, in chants and songs, royalty alone being permitted to chant genealogical lines. Many of the older people do not know their own birth dates, and few of them know anything concerning the genealogy of their parents and grandparents. So our work in this line is difficult in the extreme. "We are now working in connection with the territorial board of health in an attempt to get baby clinics established in our villages and towns. We are doing all in our power to preserve the health of mothers and prospective mothers among our people. The infant mortality among our people is very high. An effort is being made to determine the cause for this and to remedy the same as far as possible. We have the cooperation of the board of health nurse and we hope to do much good by means of clinics, circulars of instruction, personal visits, and otherwise to improve the health of mothers and children. "Our people are in something of a transition condition; they have forgotten the medicines and treatments for sickness of their forefathers (which were by the way in many cases very effective), and have not become accustomed to the methods of treatment of modern medicine and nursing. They are changing their kind of diet, social conditions are changing, home life is different, labor is new in its methods, kinds of clothing have changed, and all is in a sort of transitory condition. We are doing all we can to stabilize conditions and get our people in a condition to meet and cope with life as it is today, not as it was one hundred years ago among them. We are meeting with some success. The gospel is preparing the people to battle with the unfavorable conditions. The testimony of all who know us, whether in or out of the Church, is that the members of the Church of Jesus Christ are the finest type of Hawaiians in the Islands, physically, mentally and morally., "Trusting that the health and: the joy that follows success will attend you all in your noble labors, we are, "Your sisters, "Olivia S. Waddoups, "Minerva E. Fernandez, "Ricke McGuire, "Mission Presidency of the Relief Society." European Mission. A Relief Society officers' meeting of unusual interest was held at the mission home in Dresden on August 24, 1925. There were present Mrs. May Booth Talmage, president of the Relief Sacieties of the European missions; President Eliza W. Tadje NOTES FROM THE FIELD 147 of the German Austrian mission, President Sarah Richards Cannon of the Swiss-German mission, and President Leonora S. Hyde of the Netherlands mission. This meeting of sisters whose fields of labor are so widely separated was made possible through their having accompanied their husbands to the great gathering incident to the division of the Swiss-German mission. Its purpose was to consult as to the work for the coming year and to give reports of the work done. Swiss-German Mission. Mrs. Tadje, who for more than two years has been in charge of the Relief Societies in the undivided mission, reported the condition of the branches under her supervision. All branches are fully organized; hold officers' and teachers' meetings at regular intervals, and are using the regularly outlined lessons. Each alternate week sewing is done, and if there is a fifth meeting in the month, a biographical sketch is given. Visiting teachers are given topics to treat while at the homes of members. Bazaars are very successful, and the means obtained from this source, together with the funds donated, are sufficient for the needs of the associations. Many families are being assisted. All women over eighteen years of age are urged to attend meetings. The largest branch has one hundred and forty members, the smallest has five. When mothers are ill and unable to do their work, the members of the Relief Societies assist; some take the children and care for them, others go to the home and help with the necessary work. Netherlands Mission. Mrs. Hyde, president of the Relief Societies of the Netherlands mission, reported that all Societies are fully organized except for choristers and organists. The attendance, over previous years, has increased about fifty per cent. Lessons are taken as outlined with the exception of literature. Officers' and teachers' meetings are held monthly. The largest branch has sixty members. Bazaars have been wonderfully successful. The sick are being cared for and helped as much as possible. The birthdays of members are considered as special occasions?the member whose birthday occurs during the week, brings, on meeting night, some inexpensive refreshments to share with the others. During the visit made by Mrs. Talmage to the many branches throughout Germany, Switzerland and Holland, the Relief Society meetings held were generally in connection with regularly appointed conferences and were of a more or less public nature, as was instanced at the Chemnitz gathering. The meeting there was held between the afternoon and evening sessions of the conference 
 and was attended by five hundred and thirty people?men as well as women who were interested in Relief Society work. There were, however, a few occasions when opportunity was found to visit the weekly meetings where the regular work, as carried on over there, was in progress. There are three branch societies in Breslau, near the borderland of Poland. At the first of these visited there were present about fifty women engaged in all kinds of handwork, in preparation for the exhibition the following night. All the members seemed to be doing their work in a wonderfully efficient manner and from the report of the president, it was learned that the lessons are taken as prescribed and are much enjoyed. At the second branch, a lesson was in progress and was being presented most ably. The discussion was very lively and participated in by nearly all present. All three branches joined in a reception in honor of the visitors on Tuesday, August 18. Hundreds of people came to extend greetings. The program and refreshments were pleasing features also, but the exhibition of work made by the women of the three branches was very remarkable. An unusual feature at almost all these conferences or special meetings was that the visitors were presented with flowers or other little tokens of remembrance, and these were usually accompanied by an address of welcome and greeting that was deeply appreciated. The local society in Dresden was visited by Sisters Talmage, Tadje, Cannon and Hyde. A large number of sisters were present and were all engaged in making useful and beautiful articles to be distributed among the members of the branch. It was learned that the Relief Society activities in Dresden were on a par with the excellent work witnessed elsewhere. In Basel, Switzerland, the local association was found to be doing splendid work. Of the twenty members present eighteen participated in an excellent discussion of the lesson. The animated expression and ready flow of language left no room for doubt in the minds of the visitors as to "the real interest taken by the members. Almost four hundred people gathered at the Relief Society conference held in Berlin on September 6. For an hour preceding and another following the general session, the officers met to give reports and receive more detailed instruction than could be given in a public meeting. The reports were for the most part very gratifying and these together with the interest evidenced by the large gathering, were most encouraging. Northcentral States Mission. The Relief Societies of the new Northcentral States mission: NOTES FROM THE FIELD 149 are in excellent condition. The Winnipeg branch gave a very successful Thanksgiving dinner at which a number of visitors and investigators were present. It was felt that much prejudice was allayed and warm friends made through this contact. The Minneapolis branch has, during 1925, donated about $350 worth of carpets, curtains, etc., for the beautiful new church dedicated about a year ago. This money was raised by giving bazaars, socials, etc., during the year. On one occasion, the Minneapolis Relief Society met at the home of a member who is unable to attend meeting on account _of an invalid daughter. There was an unusually large attendance and all enjoyed the literary lesson and were inspired and benefitted by coming out. A scripture reading scheme is being tried out in this mission. About ten minutes each day is given to reading the Bible, not promiscuously, but on the first principles of the gospel. Northern States Mission. An interesting item in the annual report of the Relief Society of the Northern States mission was that $14 had been donated by the women of the Bloomington, Illinois, organization for temple work. The fund had been collected in pennies, each woman keeping her pennies day by day and handing them in for-this cause. As there are at present only four members in the organization, the result shows what can be accomplished by mites, where there is united effort. Canadian Mission. Mrs. Ida T. Quinney, president of the Relief Society of the Canadian mission writes:. "We have effected two new organizations in our mission this year, and now we have a Relief Society in each of our branches. ? Each is doing very well. We were very glad to have had Sister Ethel Smith of the General Board visit us and all of our organizations. Reports are still coming in from the Saints of how much they enjoyed her visit, and we feel that much good was done thereby." Southern States Mission. Mrs. Grace E. Callis writes in connection with her annual report: "IJ am very pleased to report that the local Relief Society women are becoming so interested and efficient that they are being used to visit other Relief Societies and encourage the members who are beginners. The spirit of missionary work is also manifest among them. Several Relief Societies have members who distribute tracts, sell Books of Mormon, and other books published by the Church. One of the purposes of the 
 Society is expressed in the large number of visits made to the sick last year. The sisters are gathering used clothing and are distributing it to the poor. The Relief Society conference is held at the same time a conference is held with the elders, members and friends. One session of the conference is devoted to a Relief Society meeting, at which the women from the various branches report their labors. The members of the Relief Society are being depended upon by the branch presidents, conference presidents, and mission president, to relieve distress among the poor and to advise with them as to the merits of cases where appeals for help are made. More and more the Society is being regarded as an indispensable aid to the general missionary work." New Zealand Mission. Following is an extract from a letter received from Mrs. Cora S. Jenkins, president of the Relief Societies of the New Zealand Mission: Our annual report was mailed on the last boat, and has no doubt reached you before now. I hope it is satisfactory. There are so many things needing improvement that I trust by next October 31, we will be able to send in a better report. "Most of my time has been spent getting acquainted with the members and the work. I have made five trips through the mission with President Jenkins since we arrived here on August 16, and have met all of the saints in New Zealand. I find that some of our organizations are quite up-to-date. My board members are good, faithful sisters, happy in their work and anxious to make our Societies just as good as those in Zion. "We did not get a report of Relief Society Magazines until after our report had been sent in, but we have thirty-two taken here, and more will be sent for soon. I simplify the lessons and have them translated for the mission paper for the benefit of the sisters who cannot read English. I am urging all those who can read English to take the Magazine, but some need no urging, especially those who have had it before." Rigby Stake. Planning weekly menus has been one helpful feature of the work and business meeting in Rigby stake. This has been done following a course in nutrition, which was given by the extension _ department of the Idaho Agricultural College, to the Relief Society members. Women are appointed to work out well-balanced menus for each day in the week. These menus are then read and discussed at the work and business meeting. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 151 IN MEMORIAM Logan Stake. The Relief Society of the Logan Stake has sustained a great loss in the death, on December 7th, 1925, of one of its beloved members, Mrs. Martha Write Carlisle. Mirs. Carlisle was born in Avon, Cache County, Utah, July 18, 1866. She married Heber J. Carlisle on December 18, 1889 and since that time has been a resident of Logan. She has been a most active worker in the various auxiliary organizations in the Stake for thirty-five years, and has been a member of the Logan Stake Relief Society board since 1910. Mrs. Carlisle's acquaintanceship extended throughout the valley, and wherever she was known was loved and admired as a woman of great faith and deep spirituality. Her implicit faith in God, and her strong testimony of the gospel characterized her whole life, and her influence for good was felt by all who knew her. She was the mother of nine children, seven of whom with her husband survive her. Wasatch Stake. Mrs. Anna R. Duke, one of the pioneers of the valley, died at her home in Heber, Utah, January 14, 1926. Funeral services were held in the stake tabernacle Sunday, January 17, 1926. Thirty years of her life were spent in serving the Church in different official positions. She was president of the stake Relief Society for a numbers of years. Mrs, Duke was personally acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith and she crossed the plains with one of the ox-team companies. THE LITTLE THINGS By Grace Haines Oh, it's just the little homely things, The unobstrusive friendly things, The "won't you let me help you" things That make our pathway light; And it's just the jolly joking things, The "never mind the trouble" things, The "laugh with me, it's funny" things, That make the world seem bright. For all the countless famous things, The wondrous record breaking things, Those never can-be-equalled things That all the papers cite, Are not like little human things The "just because I like you" things That make us happy quite. So here's to all the little things, The "done and then forgotten" things, Thase "Oh, it's simply nothing" things, That make life worth the fight. ' ?Journal of Education. Guide Lessons for May LESSON I Theology and Testimony. (First Week in May). THE DISPENSATION OF THE MERIDIAN OF TIME PART I. THE FORERUNNER A, A New Opening of the Heaven. ? The dawn of this new gospel era came with the sending from on high the angel Gabriel to Zacharias, the father of John the Baptist. For an illuminative account of this dispensational event, see Jesus the Christ by James E. Talmage, pp. 75-77. B. The Life of John the Baptist: 1. He was born in fulfilment of the words of the angel Gabriel. "Now Elizabeth's full time came that she should be delivered; and she brought forth a son. And her neighbors and her cousin heard how the Lord had showed great mercy upon her; and they rejoiced with her." Luke 1:57, 58. 2. He was named in obedience to the instructions of the angel: "And it came to pass, that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child; and they called him Zacharias, after the name of his father.; "And his mother answered and said, Not so; but he shall be called John. ""And they said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name. "And they made signs to his father, how he would have him called. "And he asked for a writing table, and wrote, saying, His name is John. And they marveled all." Luke 1:59-64. 3. He was ordained when named and baptized when in his childhood: "Which gospel is the gospel of repentance and of baptism, and the remission of sins, and the law of carnal commandments, which the Lord in his wrath caused to continue with the house of Aaron among the children of Israel until John, whom God raised up, being filled wtih the Holy Ghost from his mother's womb;.