A Trip Through Scandinavia Georgina G. Marriott If one desires to have the best possible introduction to Oslo, Norway, one should approach the city by steamer over the beautiful Kristiania Fjord, dotted with a thousand islets and flanked with hills and low mountains whose sides are often covered with forests of pines and firs. Arriving thus by water, the city presents an imposing appearance, the Akerhus Fortress rising on a height in the middle foreground, while from an eminence on the left the Royal Palace dominates, and on the right the Home for Old Sailors may be seen. The old town was founded in 1050 by Harald Haardraade who gave it the name of Oslo; 600 years later the town was partially destroyed by fire. Christian IV of Denmark, on supervising the rebuilding, insisted that the town should expand to the west of the river and that the new town including the old on the east side of the river, should be named after himself, Christiania, or as Norwegians call it, Kristiania. In 1924 on the 300th anniversary of its refounding, the Norwegian Storthing passed a measure requiring the town to be called by the old name of Oslo. Today it has a population of over 260,000 inhabitants or more than one-tenth of all the inhabitants of the kingdom. Of special interest to me was the partly preserved Viking ship of about the 9th century which was discovered in 1889 within a mound of Gogstad. It has been used as the burial place of a queen and contained her earthly possessions. These had been preserved by the blue clay in which they had been buried and may be seen now in the museum. It was a marvel to me to gaze upon the elaborate wood carving which had entered into the making of her sled, wagon, bed and other wooden furniture. The workmanship of the metal of the kitchen furniture was a revelation of early civilization. Their museum of art is well worth a visit, as it contains Norwegian sculpture and paintings for the last 150 years. It is impossible in one short article to give my impressions of these countries, so I shall have to confine myself to a short description of the three capitols of Scandinavia. Stockholm is beautifully situated at the entrance of Lake Malaren, with the Baltic sea, in part, on the mainland, and on seven islands. This situation has earned for her the name of 'Venice of the North." ~ I entered the city by night and the reflection of the hundreds of lights in the quiet waters was beautiful beyond description. A TRIP THROUGH SCANDINAVIA 121 NORWEGIAN VIKING Founded in the middle of the 13th century by Birger Jare it grew slowly for centuries but in the last hundred years it has grown by leaps and bounds and today it has over a half million. It is a city of bridges for one crosses from one island to another on wide substantial bridges, as if they were but extensions of the Streets. Of noteworthy interest to me was my visit to the Royal Palace, the part occupied by the late king. The building is old but very impressive, built around a large square court with a handsome approach on the northwest and a dignified facade on the northeast and facing the water-front. The interior is interesting with its collections of portrait paintings, goblin tapestry, its beautiful china, glass and silverware. On the first floor are the apartments of the late King Oscar JI. On the second floor in a great succession of rooms are the Festival Hall and Banquet rooms called the great "White Sea." The grandeur of such apartments must be seen, for words are inadequate to describe it. Copenhagen is likewise built on the eastern coast, of the island of Zealand, and the adjacent islands, but has its own charms with its inland lakes and broad boulevards. I took the train at Stockholm in the evening and arrived in Copenhagen next morning without a change of cars, ferrying the sound in a large ferry from Malmo. Copenhagen has a population of three quarters of a million. 
 The strongest impression that I came away with, is the great effort put forth to educate the people of the nation. The people are essentially agricultural, and as it is a small land every inch has to produce all that it can, and the inhabitants have been taught, through a system of high schools and agricultural colleges, taken to the people, how to develop and produce the maximum in quality and quantity. They are renowned for making the best butter in the world. Their reforestation of the last two generations has filled the land with beautiful forests of pines, firs, - beeches and birches, some large and some small; these grow on the poorer soil. There are large marshes which up to the present have not been used for anything, but now are being drained and brought under cultivation. Copenhagen is filled with museums, libraries, schools and universities, which have earned for her the title of the "Athens of the North" and which attest the culture of her people. The Copenhagen resident says, "A large house in England means a factory, in Germany a barrack, but in Denmark it means a school." The old town was surrounded by a moat and within it the streets are narrow and crooked but in the newer portions the streets are wide and straight. The moat has been leveled and made into immense boulevards. The city is kept very clean and one cannot help wishing, that such a people had room to develop an immense civilization of their own. THE BOOK OF LIFE The Book of Life or the Bible, arranged and edited by Newton Marshall Hall and Irving Francis Wood, is a book that will appeal to Bible lovers. It is gotten up in a most attractive manner. The form is modern, the print large and clear, and the explanations illuminating. One of the outstanding features of the book are the pictures which are true to bibical life, breathing the spirit of the Orient, in the details presented. In the fifth volume we note a photograph of a cedar of Lebanon giving us a splendid idea of the country where these trees grow. There is also a picture of the Jewish Wailing Wall whgre the Jews wail each Friday, their Sabbath eve, over the loss of Jerusalem. This series of books contains not only many photographs of Bible lands, but reprints of the worlds greatest masterpieces, affecting Bible narrative and Bible characters. It is a real contribution te the study of the scriptures, as it helps to make plain the text and enhances its values immeasurably by the added charm of great pictures done by the master painters of the world. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Magazine entered as second- "class eae at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Editor - -: - - Crarissa SMitrH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - -: - - - Axice Lovisz REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 

Vol. XIII MARCH, 1926 No.