Angels of Mercy By Mrs. Alice Morrill Little Joe Greyson looked into his mother's emaciated face through soulful blue eyes, as she lay upon the rickety iron bed with its shabby tenement mattress, upon which she had spread her clean, white blankets, and said, "Mother, I hope you won't get very sick, but if you do, I'll take care of you until Daddy gets back?so don't worry." And then he continued solicitously, 'Shall I spread the warm camping blanket over you? Are you cold, Mother?" "Yes, dear, mother needs more covering, I think, for I am chilly." Little Joe tucked the soft blanket around his mother the best he could and then turned his face toward the dim window for a moment, pretending to look out at the rear of the high houses which backed up against his alley, so as to hide the quivering of his chin from his mother. He was all but disheartened, was Little Joe, in spite of the brave front he tried to maintain for sake of the sick one. Joe felt there was no one to whom he vid turn for help in all this great city, and he was about to lose the brave courage that he had striven to keep up since his mother fell sick. Mrs. Greyson had been ailing for a week, and for the last two days had been unable to go about her household duties, or even to prepare food for herself and Joe. The remainder of the afternoon she slept while Joe sat by the bed and watched the fevered flush in her cheeks come and go, with anxious feelings in his lonely heart. And then queer thoughts began to stir within him?vague apprehensions, growing more and more keen as the long day wore "away. "What if his mother should not awaken? "What if a 'Mormon' should come there to do him harm, while his mother slept?" The boy shrank toward the bed when passing footsteps approached, coming in close proximity, and scarcely dared to breathe until they had gone by. At twilight, Joe felt that he could stand suspense and solitude no longer. Leaning over the bed he softly kissed his mother's cheek and the light caress awoke her. At first, she looked startled and then said, "Oh, Joe, is that you?" Give me a drink of water, please, and then see if there is just a morsel of food in the cupboard for me.' Joe's face burned with remorse as he faltered, "Forgive me, 
 Mother, I ate the last scrap of bread, spread with the last scraping of butter in the dish, while you were asleep. Oh, Mother, I'm so sorry, but I was hungry and thought you could not eat while you were sick. I wish I had saved part of it for you," and then he broke out with, "Oh, Mother, do you really think you will get well?" At last the flood gates of the child's grief gave way, and he threw himself upon the bed in a paroxysm of sorrow. Mrs. Greyson reached out a-thin trembling hand and stroked Joe's bright curls reassuringly. "T think I shall get better, Joe, but when tomorrow comes, it I am not better, this is what you must do: "Go out on the street and find a policeman and inquire of hin. | whether there are any people here in Salt Lake City who are not 'Mormons.' I think the policeman would tell you the truth? though, when I come to think of it, he might 'be a 'Mormon' himself; however, I know of no one else to send you to. Then find some of those people who are not 'Mormons,'?go to them and tell them all about us?how we were traveling through Utah and -while in this city, your Father received a telegram from our home in Pennsylvania telling him that his estate was in jeopardy and that he must return at once. Tell them how your father secured us a little apartment and left us here in Salt Lake, while he ~ hurried back to save his inheritance?how we have waited for his return?watching and waiting until our funds shrank so low that we had to move over on this alley to find a cheap place to live?how I was taken sick so suddenly, and how?how?'" Joe impulsively laid his fingers softly on his mother's lips and looked at her beseechingly? "Mother, I will do as you ask me to, ifi?but Oh, Mother, you must get better for Daddy and me?try to be better?you will, won't you?" But even as Joe spoke he saw the look on his mother's face which even his childish eyes recognized as a token of failing strength. What could he do? To whom could he go for help?. Before leaving, Mr. Greyson had warned them to remain indoors as much as possible during what was to have been his short absence, and have no intercourse whatever with their 'Mormon' neighbors. They had carried out his instructions faithfully. Mrs. Greyson sank to sleep again after her effort at talking, and Joe sat down again at his vigil with an aching heart in his little body. During the afternoon, there was a light tap on the door. Half hopeful and half fearful, Joe drew his hand softly from his mother's grasp and tiptoed silently from the bedside. Gently undoing the latch, he opened the door with fast beating ANGELS OF MERCY 129 heart. A little girl stood on the threshold?a "little fairy," she looked to Joe, who gazed at her in wonder. "Ts some one sick?" the child asked sweetly. "Yes," Joe whispered, and wonderingly added, "How did you know?" while a ray of glad hope thrilled through him. _,, "Oh." naively answered the little visitor, 'we live up this street and I play down this way sometimes, and I had not seen this door open for two days and I just thought some one was sick," and the little girl had twirled her skipping rope and gone flitting away before Joe realized it, leaving him more desolate than ever. Joe wondered if she were a ?Mormon." He had intended to ask her but she had gone skipping away before he had scarcely time to catch his breath. She seemed like any other child?he thought. Joe turned sadly to the bed again where Mrs. Greyson still slept fitfully. He gazed at her deiectedly hen hastily arose and began putting the room to rights. 'It seemed to him that a change was portending. Mrs. Greyson awoke and again she asked for food and Joe could see that she was semi-delirious. But before the boy could realize what had happened, two gentle-faced women had entered the room. Were they angels? No, Joe could see that they were truly human, as he looked at them with happiness, that welled up from a heart filled with the greatest thankfulness he had ever known in his short life. They were just women?"Mothers" Joe thought, as his gaze took in every feature and expression of their faces. Joe moved from his place at the bed's head and stood in calm wonderment as one of the visitors stepped into the place he had released at his sick mother's pillow, and began with gentle haste and capable hands, the tender ministrations for his beloved mother that he, with all his love for her, had been unable to perform. Meanwhile, the "other Mother". As Joe still named her, in his grateful heart, was placing upon the bare table articles which she was taking from a basket she had brought twith her?clear, clean bottles of something that looked like medicine, soft, white cloths and towels?Joe noticed a jar of jelly, a loaf of luscious-looking brown bread, a square of yellow, sweet butter, and bottles of fruit juice. "And here is a big, sweet orange for you, right now, boy," the woman said cheerily as she patted his head with reassuring kindliness, All that evening and far into the night, Joe watched every movement of the kind-faced women, as they worked unceasingly - over his mother, ministering to her needs and giving her comfort - and easing her pain. Not until he could see a marked change in 
 her condition, telling him that she was better?much better?could the boy be persuaded to lie down and get some much needed rest. All the rest of the night, Joe slept and when he awoke, the morning's bright sun was shining in at the little window and the women were still there looking hopeful, now, and kind and motherly as before. He raised himself up and looked at his mother and was joy-thrilled at the change he saw in her. "Yes, boy," the watcher at the bedside said in answer to Joe's look of mute inquiry, "Your mother is much better and she is going to get well soon." Then his mother spoke: "Joe, boy, come here," she said, speaking calmly and in her natural voice. Putting her arms around him, she drew him to her and held him close. "Joe, these women are 'Mormons'?they call themselves Reliet Society Teachers, whatever that may be?they have promised to tell me all about it when I am stronger?but, Joe, whatever they are, to us they have been Angels of Mercy." This story would be too long if I should tell how Mrs. Greyson, nursed back to health by the good women of the nth ward Relief Society who "changed off" with one another, taking turns. In staying with Joe and his mother?how they instituted a search for Mr. Greyson, making the discovery that he was injured in a railroad wreck and lay unconscious in a far away hospital while Joe was fighting for his mother's life?how Mr. Greyson saved: his property and returned to his family a wealthy man?how they afterwards decided not to continue their journey but to remain in Salt Lake City, where they eventually became members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints?how Mrs. Greyson became an ardent Relief Worker and she and her husband devoted much of their time and means to Relief Work, and how Joe, though that is not his real name, became in his manhood, a great leader and missionary, devoting his energies to the cause of righteousness upon the earth. A story written for the Relief Society Magazine, from facts, by Alice Morrill, Tridell, Utah.