[Vol32 | November 1945 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Women and Christensen]
Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson II?Women and Morals Dt. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, February 26, 1946
Lesson link: It was shown last time that there is a fundamental relationship between certain leisure-time activities and immoral conduct. The rise of abundant leisure for all classes during this machine age has presented mankind with both an opportunity and a responsibility. But too often leisure time is wasted in idleness or dissipated in debauchery, so that the opportunity it affords is lost and the responsibility it implies is ignored; too often "wreck-reation" crowds out real recreation. Suggestions were made for improving this situation by individual, family, and community effort. Lesson aim: To analyze some of the social and moral problems peculiar to women in this modern world, and to emphasize woman's moral role and responsibility in the field of ethics. 
ALTHOUGH the number of women in the world, under normal conditions, is just about equal to the number of men, the moral influence that they wield is probably much greater. This is because of two special advantages that women have over men in this respect: (1) Their position as mothers puts them closer to the developing child during his most impressionable years, which means that women have more to do with the building of character and the shaping of personality than do men. (2) Their womanly charm, or "sex appeal" as it is sometimes called, gives them a tremendous power and advantage over the male who, in respect to some of the follies of the flesh, might more accurately than women be called "the weaker sex."
But since every opportunity rightfully carries with it a moral responsibility, it is well to ask if women are using this special power which is theirs to good advantage or are turning it to their own selfish use. Are the women of today being good mothers, wives and sweethearts, true to the moral obligations implicit in these roles, or are they using their position and turning their opportunity to their own personal and selfish advantage? Some of each, no doubt, but enough of the latter to invoke real alarm and serious concern. It is primarily to mothers and the sweethearts of
men that we must look for the balance and guidance in morals so sorely needed in the world today.
Before attempting any criticism of contemporary womanly conduct, however, it will be well to try to understand the modern woman in the light of recent social trends. So great have been these changes in society that many women today find themselves confused or lost, not even understanding themselves. And to make matters worse, most discussions on "youth problems" deal only with the boy, and most of the literature on adult delinquency is concerned mainly with the male. It is time for people to realize that the adjustment problems of girls and women in this rapidly changing world are in many ways even more difficult than those of boys and men, and to realize also that one of the keys to morality is moral womanhood.
The Emancipation of Women
Historically, woman has almost always had a role in society inferior to that of man. This is not to say that she is innately inferior or has in any way deserved such a lowly station, but only that man has seen fit to use his greater physical strength and freedom to subjugate and abuse woman for his own self-gratification. And, as a consequence, in virtually all of the dealings between man and woman, man has benefited at the expense of woman.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 707
Woman, for example, at times has been confined entirely to the home, deprived of property, bought and sold like chattel, beaten, killed, et cetera; and all because she was woman. But recently in the western world the general trend has been away from all of this, toward an equality of the sexes. Politically, in America, woman can vote and hold public office as well as can man. Economically, she can find employment outside of the home and can personally control her own income and property. Socially, she can enjoy many freedoms that were formerly the prerogative of "men only." Yes, woman has come a long way in her struggle for emancipation and equality.
Even so, she has not yet arrived; the fight still goes on.
Although there are few legal barriers keeping woman from public office, social disapproval has a very powerful restraining effect.
Although woman can and does compete with man in gainful employment, she still, with a few exceptions, does not receive "equal pay for equal work."
Although she is more free in the various patterns of social intercourse than she' once was, she is still watched more closely and judged more harshly when she oversteps than is man.
There are still laws on the statute books of our states which discriminate against woman in the fields of property, profits, and morals. In these and many other ways America still treats its women in a similar manner to its racial minority groups, nominally equal under the assumption of democracy but actually inferior in the roles they are permitted to play. Some Consequences One of the unfortunate accompaniments of this equality trend is the tendency on the part of some women to mistake identity for equality. In their zeal for freedom many have deserted entirely their feminine roles and charms in order to better compete.
They ape men in dress, in speech, in mannerisms; they prepare for and engage in the traditionally masculine jobs; they become coarse, crude, and vulgar.
This masculinization of woman cannot help but lead to trouble for it is a perversion of the very nature of things.
Since men and women are inherently different biologically, it is well also to expect personalities and social roles of the two sexes to be differentiated. The personal and social relationships of men and women should be supplementary and complementary rather than duplicative; co-operative rather than competitive.
Equality is highly desirable, but equality does not require identity. It is entirely possible for men and women to be equal and still be different; they can be equal, each within his own field. An unfortunate consequence of this trend toward equality is the development of extreme individualism and independence on the part of some women, an independence so strong that it ignores responsibility and precludes co-operation.
This is not to say that woman should necessarily be more dependent than man, but neither more independent.  As woman finds her rightful place side by side with man, the masculine ego will have to adjust somewhat, and rightly so. But let the woman who is wise be neither too impatient nor too aggressive. Arguing, being obstinate, making demands, acting independently, fighting?these do not make one equal or free.
Equality is more than the assertion of equality. The question of a career versus a home and family is often difficult for some women to decide. And there is no one answer that will apply in all cases.
Some women are successful in having both; either stopping for a short career before starting a family, or fitting it in along with the family, or settling down to a career after the family has been reared. All of these arrangements present difficulties, but the last named is most likely to succeed.
Some women choose a career in preference to a family; and some, without any real opportunity for marriage, turn to a career as a second choice or a substitute. A great many women wisely look upon homemaking as a career and, by focusing attention and energy upon their responsibilities as wives and mothers, are able to make the greatest contributions to the moral welfare of society that it is possible for woman to make.
Motherhood is the one function that is reserved exclusively for women, and yet, in their scurry for recognition and equality, many are deserting or neglecting even that.
Employment and career activities outside of the home are justifiable if they can be successfully fitted in to a happy home life, but for every normal woman the home and family should come first. Men and women should be equal, but it should be a differentiated equality; both sexes should be free, but it should be a responsible freedom; women should be active and creative in their own right, but it should be a co-operative individualism that spurs them on. The Prostitution of Womanhood There are a great many women in this modern world who want the freedom that equality promises without accepting the obligations entailed.
They seek for special privileges, for rights without responsibilities; and in order to obtain them they are ever ready to prostitute their virtue, to sell their birthright for a "mess of pottage."
