[Vol32 | November 1945 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Theology Stakes of Zion Driggs]
The crossing at Lee's Ferry by the handful of Mormon colonizers in 1878 was but a beginning of hundreds of such migrations made by the saints on their way westward and their way into the sun-striped cactus lands of New Mexico; some pressed on across the arid wastes of Nevada; some braved the biting winds and snow of Idaho and Wyoming; and yet others scaled the rugged Rockies eastward into Colorado. The Rocky Mountain prophecy of Joseph Smith given that August day in 1842, while in his hand he held a cool glass of water that suggested. To him the clear streams of the West, was literally being fulfilled. Intrepid Mormon pioneers played a major role in bringing to pass his words, and in first setting the American flag in the majority of the intermountain states (Children's Friend, "The Stakes of Zion? April 1942).
Since those early years of establishing the first stakes of Zion, there has been a steady and impressive growth of these ecclesiastical divisions of the Church.
Zion has truly touched both shores of the United States, and enlarged her borders to include parts of Canada, Mexico, and an isle of the sea. At the close of the year 1940 there were 133 stakes of Zion, 1,055 wards, 92 independent branches and 24 dependent branches in the stakes. All the European missions were under the direction of local Elders and were carrying on with marked success under the stress and hardships occasioned by the great war.
There were in the stakes of Zion 86,432 men and boys holding the Aaronic Priesthood and in the missions 15,547.
There were also in the stakes 95,625 men holding the Melchizedek Priesthood and 9,730 in the missions. The proclamation of the Gospel had been made in nearly all parts of the earth and had been brought to the attention of kings, presidents, potentates and rulers. At the close of this year (1940) there were many signs given spoken of by our Lord as presaging his second coming [Essentials in Church History, page 647).
Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. How literally have the saints taken the words of the Lord, "... Ye shall build up my church in every region" (Doc. And Gov. 42:8)?
Make a study of the points of early colonization from Salt Lake Valley. See the map for Church History series found in July 1944 issue of The Relief Society Magazine.
Also study the "Stakes of Zion" pages 679-683, Essentials in Church History. Are there any family names found on this list known to any of your class members? If so, what stories can such a member relate concerning the person or persons named? For additional facts of interest concerning the early years when the saints struggled to build up the stakes of Zion, read chapters 41 and 42, Essentials in Church History.
Also see "The Stakes of Zion," in the Children's Friend, issues for February through June 1942. The articles for March and April are especially recommended for the lesson. As one approaches Idaho Falls, an increasing beauty of panorama of mountains and city meets the eye. The fertile Snake River Valley, with its golden fields of wheat, and potato fields browned by the recent frosts, stretches out to the north. The great river of history and romance comes winding its way to the Columbia, and enchanted with this scene of beauty, you find yourself at the gates of the temple.... ("The Temple at Idaho Falls," Levi Edgar Young of the First Council of Seventy. The Church News, September 29, 1945).
