[Vol32 | November 1945 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Bennion]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 699
Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 5?Charity Doth Not Behave Itself Unseemly Di. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, February 5, 1946
Objective: To show how charity is tactful and courteous because it is inspired by a reverence for life. Jesus went unto the mount of Olives... And all the people came unto him... And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery;... They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act. Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned: but what sayest thou? This they said, tempting him, that, they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not. So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground. And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one... And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst... He said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? She said. No man. Lord. And Jesus said unto her. Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more (John 8:1-11). This incident offers an interesting study in contrasting attitudes. The scribes and Pharisees were thinking of the law, of punishment, of tempting Jesus, and had no feeling for the inner life of the woman. Jesus believed in the law of chastity and even enriched its meaning (note Matt. 5:27-28), but he also had reverence for the soul of the woman. He replaced her shame with hope and faith. He handled the situation with tact and graciousness. Even after the multitude left he asked her no personal questions, but simply, "Where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee?" Think of the hope, love, and gratitude she must have felt as she left with his gracious words to cherish in her memory: "Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." (Notice, however, that he did not say, "Thy sin be forgiven thee.") Charity has a deep reverence for life and expresses itself with tact and courtesy so that it will not embarrass nor offend nor give pain to an already wounded spirit. A charitable person gives in such a way that the recipient is hardly aware of the distinction between giver and receiver. There is a gentle, quiet, spontaneous, courteous way of giving which is wholly uplifting in its effect. The secret of developing this type of charity is to keep in mind, not the giver nor the gift, but the need and joy of the person who is to be the recipient of one's love and good will. "Charity doth not behave itself unseemly."