EDITORIAL Entered ai second-clas* matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.  THE GENERAL BOARD Mbs. Emuelinb B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Si;sA Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Home Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoeba Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley M-ss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SuSA Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop'a Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. III. JULY, 1916. No. 7. WHO CAN HELP ME? Not all the king's horses nor all the king's Broken men can put an egg together again. When Down, the body has broken with the over-strain of modern life, and the spirit runs out to spread itself despairingly over the ruins, life is like a broken egg, and the soul is flat and spent with the awful effort of breathing. The faculties are held in a misty suspension, the grinding pressure of the daily world-wheels press upon the brain with inconceivable torture. We are spilled out of God's hand, and neither time nor eternity possesses form or cohesion. How we long for help, for — any help human or divine. And human skill is so much nearer, so much easier to secure. We cry out for human aid God is — so long in reaching us —we say. On our bosom lies the agonized child whose The Sick fluttering breath creeps in dying gasps over Child. the twitching lips. Earth, men, hope, loves — all are as phantoms. We swing suspended in a universe whose immensity is the greater for the little body at its throbbing center. All the processes of nature cease, the demands of living creatures do not exist for us until the little gasping breath is still. — 
 The nig^ht is a g-aping^, open tomb to sick Weeping En- fancies. All the fears, the dread images, the dures Through panting terrors which hide away, when the the Night. sunshine and children are awake and about, come trooping out of their lairs and camp on the pillow and about the bedside of the lonely sufferer. Not for the world will we rouse the tired watcher by the bedside, nor disturb the sleeping husband. If it were pain, ah, then we could call and all would hear and spring to instant help. But these — — awful fears the vast troop of "what ifs" the fear of a fear — — the forecast the gloomy clutch of past sorrows or mistakes these are without form and void, and not sufficiently grave to justify our selfish longing for human help and sympathy. And — so we lie and suffer —we feel the point of every hair on our — head the quivering nerves almost snap! — Sleep sleep who — said that sleep was man's common heritage? — Not we who toss — — and pray and weep and shrivel with our fears. Hark! The baby's breath. Was there not a rasping sound to that? Down into the pit of our fears, the dear Lord Hope's Ladder, places a ladder of hope. It is there each — round is dully gold in the twilight of our suffering. We set foot there again and again, but we are too — weak too impatient to climb slowly and steadily. And so we thrust it away, and go on suffering, and agonizing. Our dark- ness is unlit, the pit is too deep, the ladder is too frail. The first step breaks so often that we bring the whole ladder tumbling about our ears while we lie crushed beneath its weight. Another weapon for oUr release the Lord The Trowel throws down to us. The trowel of faith. of Faith. — About us lie the ruins of our body like use- less bricks about a fallen building. Wemay — mend them slowly up again, if we will. It happens some rare — — times ah, what a happening is there that Jesus in His mercy seizes the trowel and with one stroke replaces the structure as it — was^clean, whole, comely. But He rarely does this He might — do so oftener if we only asked Him oftener but He has taught us how to build again the shattered body, placing brick on brick, moistening the mortar with our nightly tears, and using that strong, sure trowel of faith. Have you tried building thus a worn-out tabernacle? God is our help, now as in ages past. Not a He is Our passive help, but an ever-present, ever active Help. and constructive help. We may be sick, we may be sorry, but we need not stay so long. He is there, just behind the cloud. He and His angels are every- where. But unless you want His help, ask for it, crave it, pray for it, you will not get it. His common gifts of light and life EDITORIAL. 411 He gives to all. But if you want a special gift, you must make a special prayer. you want help from a skilful physician, you If — must ask for it and then you pay the price. He comes to you again, and yet again. 'Tis so with God. He sends His healing angel to you once and yet again, and still again. Says the gracious mother of the Prophet in her history, speaking about one of her many healings (page 221) : "The next morning after our arrival, the family being absent, I seized the opportunity to make an effort to get far enough from home to pray without interruption. Accordingly I took a staff in each hand, and by the assistance which they afforded me, I was enabled to reach a dense thicket, which lay some distance from the house. As soon as I was sufficiently rested to speak with ease, I commenced calling upon the Lord, beseeching Him to re- store me to health, as well as my daughter Catherine. I urged every claim which is afforded us by the Scriptures, and continued praying faithfully for three hours, at the end of which time I was relieved from every kind of pain my cough left me, and I; was well." Think thoughts. healthful Say peaceful Help Yourself, words. Say over and over, in your mind, hymns or psalms. Refuse to think of your sorrow or your pain. Tell your will to obey your spirit. Don't be crushed or disheartened by constant defeat. You will not die till your time comes, nor will your loved ones, unless you open the door to death and invite him in through your allowing morbid fancies, and your constant talk and thought about your own symp- toms and fears or that of your dear ones, to weaken and destroy your citadel. You refuse to allow foul, physical air in your sick — room or bed chamber don't allow disease-breeding thoughts, emotions and whinings, to taint the spiritual atmosphere. Brace up. Be a good, spiritual sport. Grit your teeth, shut your lips, — hold your hands tight, and fight just plain fight. That's what Jacob did at Bethel, when his thigh was put out of joint. Die if you must, suffer if you have to do so, but be a soldier about it. Keep your face, your fighting face, to the foe. Not your squirm- ing, cowardly back. — The Lord loves a brave soldier so do all men. God is our help. He can heal and comfort us, if we greatly work and greatly pray. GuidejiLessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in August. Work and Business. Second Week in August. SUMMER HEALTH LESSONS. Third Week in August. PREVENTION OF DISEASE. Note. We especially commend this splendid and succient lesson by Dr. Charles F. Wilcox to our students everywhere. It is the multnm in parvo concerning the subject treated. LESSON I. PREVENTION OF DISEASE. The wonderful disclosures of the microscope have revealed a new world and humanity has reaped a very great and important benefit from it. By magnifying many hundred diameters it was found that countless germs existed in the air and on everything around us. A further study of these germs showed them to be mostly of vegetable origin; also that the great majority of them were not only not harmful, but that they were actually useful in promoting — fermentation notably the yeast germ, and the germs that produce the fermentation in milk, wines, beers, etc. It was also found that these germs were living entities and that they reproduced themselves that they could be destroyed by; heat, dry or moist, by certain chemicals, such as chlorid of lime, iodine, etc., also that sunlight was a great destroyer of germs. It was also found that certain colonies of germs or bacteria were the direct cause of nearly all the diseases that afflict the human body. Louis Pasteur, a noted French chemist, was one of the first GUIDE LESSONS. 413 men to experiment along these lines and he developed the germ theory of fermentation and proved beyond qnestion of doubt that there was no such thing as "spontaneous generation of life." but that all life was due to cellular activity and must be produced bv a pre-existing, living cell. His researches along these lines were of immense benefit to the wine and beer industries of France and Germany. It was this discovery that has made possible the canned fruit and vege- table industry that furnishes so much of our winter supply of food. When the silk industry of France was in danger of being entirely destroyed by the worms dying prematurely, he found their death was caused by a germ. He immediately applied himself to find a remedy and was so successful that he not only saved the silk industry to the nation, but gained honor and undying fame. At this early stage of his researches, he expressed himself to the eflfect that what he had been able to do with the silk worms, he hoped would be possible to do with higher animals, and perhaps even human beings might be benefitted by his great discovery. He certainly pointed the way that has led up to the present advancecd position of medical science and while there are hun- ; dreds of names of eminent men who have done much to bring medicine out of the realm of uncertainty and empyricism to the pinnacle of true science where it sits today, a shining monument should be erected to the names of Harvey, Jenner, Lister, and among the long list of illustrious men that have followed down to the present, none shines brighter than that of Louis Pasteur. The discovery of Edward Jenner that vaccination will cer- tainly prevent that dreadful scourge, small-pox which, up to his day. was the most dreadful disease known to the human race, has made it so mild and so infrequent that it is no longer feared. It is not too much to say that he has been instrumental in saving mil- lions of lives. In the Spanish-American war one-fifth of the soldiers in the national encampment had typhoid fever. During the last four years our soldiers numbering, over twen- ty thousand, have been patroling the border in Mexico, and not one case of typhoid fever has been reported in the army. This immunity has been secured by proper and timely vaccination. The mortality of diphtheria has been reduced from 40% to less than 107c since the introduction of antitoxine and thou- sands of children who have been exposed to diphtheria have been saved from the disease by a timely dose of antitoxine. The economic loss in the LTnited States from tuberculosis alone has been estimated at two hundred million dollars annually. During the last forty years the death rate of tuberculosis has been reduced fifty percent. This great reduction has been brought 
 about by better sanitary measures and an earlier recognition of the disease which makes it much more favorable for treatment. What is true of the foregoing is equally true of nearly every contagious disease known. In summer, germs develop more rapidly than in cold weather. This accounts for the increased death rate in children during the summer months. Germs develop rapidly in milk when it is not free from dirt and extraneous material, or when it is not placed in sterile containers and then kept cool. Flies not only carry the typhoid germs, but many other harmful ones, notably the colon bacillus. This germ, when taken into the system, is very injurious and is responsible for many deaths. The water supply, in country districts, should be carefully guarded against contamination. It is said that cleanliness is next to Godliness, but it is quite proper to say that cleanliness is Godliness itself. The Great Creator has placed in the human body elements that tend to pro- tect him against the death-dealing germs, and when the body is clean within and without, and proper regard is had for the gen- eral rules of hygiene, and all manner of excesses in diet, ex- ercise and everything that tends to overstrain the body or reduce its vitality is avoided, it is rendered almost immune against disease of every kind, whether contagious, infectious or toxic. QUESTIONS. How were germs discovered? What are germs? Of what use are they? What harm can they do? How do they get into the system? Where are they found? How are they destroyed? What did Louis Pasteur do? What did Edward Jenner do? What would happen if everybody in the world were vac- cinated against small-pox and typhoid fever? When two children are exposed to a contagious disease why does one take it and the other not? Why are babies made sick in summer more than in winter? How can you prevent nearly all diseases? GUIDE LESSONS. 415 Fourth Week in August. THE TEETH AND THEIR CARE. LESSON n. The human countenance is much beautified by a set of teeth which are healthy, white, and symmetrical. Good teeth are greatly to be desired. Not only are they an aid to fine looks, but they are of the utmost importance in helping to maintain the general health. Good health depends largely on good digestion. Mastica- tion or grinding of the food is the first process of digestion, and perfect mastication can only be accomplished with the best of teeth. Time was when people actually expected to lose their teeth as the years went by and some aged people became entirely tooth- less. That condition gave rise to the expression "nut cracker face" when, on account of shrunken gums and sunken lips, the prominent nose and chin would almost meet. The invention of artificial teeth changed that condition entirely. Now, the science of dentistry has advanced so near to perfec- tion that the ordinary mortal may have his natural teeth until he dies of old age. Much of the misery and distress of the teething period are averted by the proper care of the infant, and with the teeth a good beginning is most important. The properly trained child is taught to give careful attention to his teeth at a very early age. Wise parents give their children food containing the elements needed for the building up or the growing a good set of teeth. For the first three years the milk diet should be mostly depended upon, the diet being varied during the third and following years in accordance with knowledge and wisdom. The outer covering of the teeth is called enamel and it is the hardest tissue found in the body. If the enamel could be kept always in perfect condition the teeth would not suffer from dis- ease or decay. It appears that Nature has designed the teeth to last as long as life, because after the teeth are once completely grown, she makes no provision for repairing or restoring the enamel. All the other tissues of the body have formative cells which continually repair waste or promote growth. It is only the teeth, after they are full grown, that are left without these repro- ductive cells. As soon as the teeth are completely growii these formative cells disappear. Many causes contribute to the cracking or other injury of the enamel, and it is after the enamel is injured that decay sets in, and the services of the dentist are required. Cracking nuts or other hard substances is a frequent and common source of 
 clanger. The people who sew should cut their threads with scis- sors or thread-cutters and not use the teeth for that purpose. Drink or food taken into the mouth too hot or too cold works injury to the enamel. Sudden changes of temperature such as following hot food with cold or the reverse is very hard on the teeth. Too much sweets and candy are injurious to the stomach and cause decay of the teeth. Also the teeth should be kept clean and free from any remain- ing particles of food that might ferment and cause disease or de- cay germs. Sucking of the thumbs or fingers is a habit that is quite fre- quent among infants and young children. It is a habit which should be corrected without delay, because if continued it is very apt to cause the mouth to be malformed or the shape and expres- sion spoiled, -by uncomely, projecting teeth in adult life. Another dreadful result of this pernicious habit may be adenoids. The services of a good dentist should be regularly employed — and he should investigate the teeth about twice a year every six months. This attention should begin even with the temporary set or "baby set," at the very first sign of decay. A very great mistake is frequently made by neglecting the "six year molars." They are the first permanent teeth to appear and never should be extraced if they can possibly be preserved to the individual by filling or other detal work. Frequently brushing of the teeth with a soft brush, preferably after each meal, up and down, across, inside and outside, and the use of an anti-septic tooth wash are necessary to their proper care and preservation. The Chinese rub the cleansing material over the teeth with the finger. The tooth brush is unsanitary unless frequently ster- ilized. QUESTIONS. Name two special reasons for giving the best care to the teeth. What was the condition of many of the aged people in days gone by? With personal care and the aid of the dentist what may be the condition now? Is there any way of aiding the growth of good teeth? Tell anything you know on that subject. Tell some facts about the outer covering or enamel of the teeth. Name some of the causes that contribute to the injury of the teeth. Tell what you think about the services of the dentist. What is the personal care that should be given the teeth?