[Vol27 | December 1940 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Children of Bailey]
aged,  blind,  and  children  living  with 
widowed  mothers. 
Public  Work  Programs 
T^HE  three  public  work  programs 
designed  to  provide  employment 
for  dependent  and  near-dependent 
households  are  the  Works  Projects 
Administration  (WPA),  the  Na- 
tional Youth  Administration 
(NYA),  and  the  Civilian  Conserva- 
tion Corps  (CCC).  The  WPA  as- 
signs to  its  projects  only  those  work- 
ers who  have  been  certified  as  being 
in  need  of  assistance.  The  NYA 
provides  part-time  employment  to 
students  in  school,  and  to  out-of- 
school  youths.  This  employment  is 
not  restricted  to  youths  from  en- 
tirely dependent  families,  but  is  ex- 
tended also  to  those  from  low-in- 
come families.  The  CCC  was  ini- 
tiated in  1933  and  was  the  first  of 
the  nation-wide  federally  operated 
emergency  employment  programs. 
Under  this  program,  unmarried 
young  men   are  selected  from  de- 
pendent and  unemployed  house- 
holds for  employment  in  camps  es- 
tablished on  public  property.  The 
CCC  boy  is  provided  with  main- 
tenance at  the  camp  and  is  required 
to  assign  most  of  his  small  monthly 
wage  to  his  family. 
All  three  of  these  federal  work 
programs  provide  small  cash  in- 
comes for  the  families  from  which 
the  workers  are  drawn.  These 
earnings  should,  of  course,  be  taken 
into  consideration  by  Relief  Societv 
presidents  when  determining  the 
needs  of  families  in  which  one  or 
more  members  are  thus  employed. 
With  respect,  to  Church  members 
employed  on  federal  work  programs, 
the  1940  edition  of  the  Bishop's 
Handbook  says,  "Those  who  work 
on  federal  projects  where  a  regular 
wage  is  offered  should  continue 
their  employment  so  long  as  they 
have  no  other  means  of  livelihood, 
but  should  be  sure  to  give  a  full  day's 
work  for  the  wages  received." 
Aid  for  Farm  Families 
npHE  federal  measures  designed  to 
help  farm  families  on  oi:  near 
relief  to  become  permanently  self- 
supporting  are  administered  by  the 
Department  of  Agriculture  through 
the  Farm  Security  Administration 
(FSA) .  These  measures  provide  for 
three  distinct  but  related  programs 
—rural  and  suburban  resettlement, 
rural  rehabilitation,  and  farm  ten- 
ancy. The  resettlement  aspect  of 
the  program  has  two  phases— the 
guidance  of  individual  farmers  in 
finding  new  and  better  locations,  and 
the  establishment  of  organized  com- 
munity projects.  A  typical  example 
in  Utah  was  the  purchase  by  the 
Government  of  submarginal  lands  in

770 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER,   1940 
Garfield  County  and  the  establish- 
ment of  the  former  owners  in  homes 
on  better  land  in  other  parts  of  the 
state.  Through  its  rural  rehabilita- 
tion division,  the  FSA  makes  loans 
to  impoverished  farmers  unable  to 
obtain  credit  from  other  agencies,  for 
the  purchase  of  livestock,  equip- 
ment, repairs,  and  supplies  to  enable 
them  to  become  self-supporting.  Un- 
der the  farm  tenancy  program,  the 
FSA  makes  loans  to  tenants,  share- 
croppers, and  farm  laborers  to  enable 
them  to  buy  family-size  farms.  In 
addition  to  making  loans,  the  FSA 
also  distributes  cash  subsistence 
grants  to  the  farm  families  under  its 
care.  These  grants  are  not  subject 
to  repayment  and  represent  a  form 
of  direct  public  relief.  Relief  So- 
ciety presidents  who  are  responsible 
for  determining  the  needs  of  rural 
families  applying  for  assistance  from 
the  Church  should  be  aware  of  this 
type  of  federal  aid  which  is  going 
into  many,  farm  families. 
Social  Security  Act 
'pHE  other  federal  welfare  provi- 
sions  to  which  I  shall  refer  are 
all  encompassed  in  the  Social  Se- 
curity Act,  which  was  passed  by 
Congress  in  August,  1935,  and 
amended  in  some  respects  in  1939. 
Six  of  the  titles  or  sections  of  this 
Act  provide  for  grants  of  funds  to 
the  several  states  for  various  pur- 
poses, but  these  grants  become  ef- 
fective only  in  those  states  which 
comply  with  their  provisions  and 
which  participate  financially  by 
matching  the  federal  funds  with  a 
certain  proportion  of  state  funds. 
The  provisions  of  these  titles  are  ad- 
ministered by  the  participating 
states  but  under  the  supervision  of 
the  Federal  Government.  One  other 
title  is  administered  directly  by  the 
Federal  Government  and  requires 
neither  acceptance  nor  financial  par- 
ticipation by  the  states. 
Service  Provisions 
npWO  of  these  titles  provide  for  di- 
rect and  indirect  services  to  indi- 
viduals and  communities.  These 
services  relate  to  crippled  children, 
maternal  and  child  health,  child- 
welfare  services,  vocational  rehabili- 
tation of  the  physically  handicapped, 
and  public  health  work.  Time  will 
not  permit  a  description  of  these 
services,  but  they  are  all  operative  in 
the  State  of  Utah,  and  you  know 
them  in  your  own  communities  as 
the  public-health  units  serving  one 
or  more  counties;  as  the  county  pub- 
lic-health nurse;  the  clinics  for 
mothers  and  children;  the  traveling 
dental  unit;  the  specialized  child- 
welfare  worker  who  is  interested  in 
the  children  in  your  community  who 
have  serious  behavior  problems,  who 
are  unadjusted  to  school,  who  are 
orphaned,  deserted,  neglected,  or  in 
danger  of  becoming  delinquent.  You 
also  see  the  evidence  of  these  social 
security  services  in  the  crippled  chil- 
dren who  are  sought  out  in  depend- 
ent and  low-income  families  and 
given  the  corrective  treatment  which 
their  families  cannot  afford,  and  in 
the  physically-handicapped  individ- 
uals who  are  trained  or  re-trained 
vocationally  so  that  they  will  be  able 
to  earn  a  livelihood  despite  their 
handicaps.  All  these  services  are 
resources  at  your  disposal  to  which 
you  can  turn  for  help  in  meeting  and 
solving  some  of  the  health  problems, 
some  of  the  behavior  and  other 
problems  which  confront  every  Re-

RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE 
771 
lief  Society  president  in  her  family 
welfare  work. 
Social  Insurance 
pIVE  titles  of  the  Social  Security 
Act  provide  for  direct  money 
payments  to  individuals.  Two  of 
these  titles  relate  to  social  insurance 
benefits  and  three  titles  provide  for 
direct  grants  of  public  assistance  to 
the  needy  aged,  blind,  and  depend- 
ent children.  The  two  social  insur- 
ance provisions  are  unemployment 
compensation  and  old-age  and  sur- 
vivors insurance.  The  benefits  paid 
under  both  of  these  provisions  are 
derived  from  employment  taxes,  and 
go  chiefly  to  low  or  average  wage 
workers  who,  ordinarily,  are  unable 
to  lay  away  savings  for  periods  of 
unemployment  or  for  their  old  age. 
The  Bishop's  Handbook  for  1940 
says,  with  respect  to  Church  mem- 
bers, "Workers  who  are  entitled  to 
unemployment  compensation  and 
individuals  covered  by  old-age  insur- 
ance should  be  counseled  to  accept 
these  benefits."  Relief  Society  pres- 
idents should  be  aware  of  these  two 
sources  of  cash  income  when  con- 
sidering applications  for  assistance 
from  those  who  are  eligible  for  these 
benefits.  However,  there  are  large 
groups  of  workers  in  the  United 
States  who  are  not  covered  by  either 
of  these  forms  of  social  insurance. 
The  uninsured  workers  are  domestic 
servants  in  private  homes,  agricul- 
tural labor,  and  employees  of  non- 
profit institutions  such  as  federal, 
state,  and  local  units  of  government, 
churches,  and  charitable  organiza- 
tions. 
The  one  form  of  social  insurance 
—unemployment  compensation— is 
a  system  under  which  a  man  or 
woman  who  loses  employment  will, 
while  unemployed  or  partially  un- 
employed, be  paid  unemployment 
benefits  in  proportion  to  previous 
wages  for  a  limited  period  of  time. 
In  order  to  accumulate  a  fund  from 
which  these  benefits  are  paid,  con- 
tributions are  required  by  law  of  all 
employers  of  four  or  more  workers, 
except  in  the  exempted  types  of  em- 
ployment already  mentioned.  The 
workers  themselves  do  not  pay  any- 
thing into  this  fund.  The  purpose 
of  this  compensation  is  to  tide  work- 
ers over  between  jobs,  so  that  they 
will  have  some  measure  of  security 
during  periods  of  unemployment. 
Relief  Society  women  will  be  inter- 
ested in  the  fact  that  unemployed 
women  receive  about  one-third  of 
the  total  amount  paid  as  unemploy- 
ment compensation. 
The  other  social  insurance  title 
of  the  Social  Security  Act  provides 
for  old-age  benefits  and  survivors 
insurance.  This  is  the  one  provision 
of  the  Social  Security  Act  which  is 
administered  directly  by  the  Federal 
Government  throughout  the  United 
States,  and  which  does  not  depend 
upon  some  measure  of  financial  par- 
ticipation by  the  states.  This  is  a 
form  of  insurance  payable,  irre- 
spective of  need,  to  retired  workers 
after  they  become  65  years  of  age, 
or  to  their  survivors.  The  benefits 
are  payable  monthly  to  the  bene- 
ficiaries for  the  rest  of  their  lives. 
The  trust  fund  from  which  these  in- 
surance benefits  are  paid  is  derived 
from  a  tax  on  the  wages  of  workers, 
and  this  tax  is  payable  by  both  the 
worker  and  his  employer.  The 
amount  of  these  benefits  is  based  on 
the  number  of  years  during  which 
each  individual's  wages  were  taxed 
and  the  amount  of  such  wages. 
About   28  million   workers   in  the

772 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER,   1940 
United  States  come  under  the  pro- 
visions of  this  Act,  and  it  is  for  this 
purpose  that  workers  throughout  the 
nation  are  registered  and  assigned 
identifying  Social  Security  numbers. 
Again,  you  will  be  interested  to  know 
that  about  one-third  of  the  workers 
covered  by  this  form  of  insurance  are 
women.  More  than  three  million 
dollars  per  month  is  now  being  paid 
throughout  the  United  States  to 
1 50,000  retired  workers  or  their  aged 
wives,  widows,  orphans  or  dependent 
parents.  The  purpose  of  this  type 
of  insurance  is  to  give  some  measure 
of  security  to  those  individuals  and 
their  families  who  are  no  longer  em- 
ployable because  of  old  age,  and  to 
give  it  as  a  matter  of  right  from  the 
trust  fund  to  which  they  contributed 
during  their  earning  years. 
Public- Assistance  Giants 
gENEFITS  under  this  plan  could 
not,  of  course,  begin  immediate- 
ly upon  passage  of  the  Social  Security 
Act  in  1935,  ^^t  "^"^y  ^^^^^  ^  period 
of  time  during  which  credits  could 
accrue  to  the  workers.  Therefore,  in 
order  to  assist  those  needy  individu- 
als already  65  years  of  age  or  older, 
and  those  not  covered  by  this  federal 
plan  of  old-age  insurance,  the  Social 
Security  Act  also  provided  for  the 
payment  of  old-age  assistance  —  a 
form  of  direct  relief  for  those  65 
years  of  age  and  older  who  are  in 
need.  This  is  one  of  the  three  pub- 
lic-assistance titles  of  the  Social  Se- 
curity Act,  the  other  two  being  for 
dependent  children  and  for  the 
needy  blind.  In  providing  for  these 
three  dependent,  industrially  unem- 
ployable groups,  it  was  the  purpose 
of  the  Social  Security  Act  to  extend 
to  them  some  measure  of  security- 
rather  than  the  emergency  relief 
of  the  three  previous  years,  or  the 
uncertain  and  inadequate  counts 
pensions  which,  during  the  preceding 
twenty-five  years,  had  been  paid  only 
by  some  counties  in  some  states. 
Hence,  even  the  term  "relief"  is 
avoided  with  reference  to  these  three 
groups,  and  the  term  "assistance" 
used  instead. 
HTHE  general  provisions  of  each  of 
these  three  public-assistance 
titles  of  the  Social  Security  Act  are 
very  similar.  They  all  specify  need 
as  the  basis  for  individual  grants,  and 
stipulate  that  the  assistance  given 
must  be  in  the  form  of  cash  grants, 
and  that  it  must  be  paid  direct  to 
eligible  individuals  in  their  own 
homes.  Consequently,  these  public- 
assistance  grants  cannot  be  paid  to 
individuals  who  are  receiving  care  in 
institutions— a  reversal  of  the  policy 
in  effect  for  nearly  two  hundred 
years  under  the  early  poor-relief  laws 
when  almshouse  care  was  considered 
to  be  the  best  method  of  providing 
for  the  poor.  In  each  of  these  three 
types  of  aid,  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment pays  one-half  of  the  individual 
cash  grants  up  to  a  specified  maxi- 
mum, and  tire  state  and  counties 
pay  the  other  half.  In  Utah,  the 
state  law  stipulates  that  counties  con- 
tribute 15  per  cent  of  these  grants, 
and  the  state  sales  tax  therefore 
meets  35  per  cent.  In  order  for  any 
state  to  qualify  for  these  federal 
public-assistance  grants,  the  state's 
plans  for  these  types  of  aid  must 
be  in  effect  in  all  counties  of  the 
state  and  mandatory  upon  them;  the 
state  must  be  authorized  to  partici- 
pate with  funds  appropriated  or 
made  available  out  of  the  state  treas- 
ury; and  the  grants  must  be  issued