[Vol27 | December 1940 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: The Sunny Side of the Hoggan]

The Sunny Side of the Hill Lella Marler Hoggan No. 6 The Light That Never Fails
Prove all things; hold fast that which is good. (I Thes. 5, 21.)
EACH generation receives from the one preceding it the sum total of that predecessor's accumulated experience and achievement—its wisdom, its culture, and its forward-looking thoughts. Also, each generation passes on to the one coming after it, not only its own strength and wisdom but also its own weakness and folly and the false gods it has come to worship. This age has reached its present stature only by standing on the shoulders of the past. Nations, as well as individuals, are literally their brothers' keepers. Today is the warder of the gates of tomorrow, the guardian of tomorrow's civilization and its progress. Through pain and want and devastating trials, those going before have secured for us the heritage which we now enjoy. Is it not our obligation to conserve its priceless values that we may contribute them to the future? Standards and institutions that have been established through long years of sacrifice and suffering should not be lost to those coming after us because of our failure to appreciate and cherish these blessings.
The harvest of the years has been rich in soul values. Only yesterday men and nations were looking forward to international relationships of unity and power. Poets were beginning to sing of universal brotherhood and of a federation of the world. But, lo, today the smouldering fires of greed and hatred have broken forth again. Armed madness and ruthless destruction are abroad in the land. The treasures of the earth are being shattered, ancient creeds discarded, social standards tossed lightly aside, and the sacred documents of law and order are being torn to bits. It is as if unprincipled hands were plucking up century plants on the very eve of their blossoming. Tyranny is seeking to warp the souls of men to fit into a crooked mould of brute force. For a portion of humanity today, there is no promise of a harvest after a lifetime of service has been performed. The idealities, the visions, the dreams of men just and good, are being swept away. Many of the victims of this hopeless struggle already face only servitude and despair. The whole world is asking, "What next?"
IN times like these men begin to search for something with which to anchor their lives. They want something stable to tie to, sound principles on which they can depend. They want to be assured that there is purpose and direction back of the shifting scenes of life. They want to know that life is more than a drama of tragic despair.
Just as there have been prophets and teachers down the years who have recognized the truth and been willing to make every necessary sacrifice in order to establish it among men, so, also, there have ever been those who have stoned the prophets and set up their own judgment in defiance of law and order. Then, too, there have always been the vacillating ones, those who were not sure enough nor brave enough to defend their convictions, and who would wash their hands of all responsibility rather than decide for or against the truth. But no one has done more mischief, perhaps, in shaping the philosophies of men, than have the cheap charlatans who parade their theories under the guise of science. Confident in their own opinions, though not actually supported by scientific fact, they seek to undermine man's faith in the most fundamental truths of religion and life. Their philosophies are not hopeful nor forward-looking. And in the end, they often find themselves dissatisfied with the very doctrines they have originated. They destroy the ladder under their own feet and then cry out that life is a mockery.
Be wary of those who publish a doctrine of defeat. Be slow to accept any melancholy philosophy that takes hope out of the heart of man; any sorry preachment that belittles the soul and looks toward chaos and utter despair as the ultimate outcome of all our days. Such beliefs will not withstand the light of truth.
FOR nearly two thousand years now men have been stumbling along trying to find something better than the Gospel of the Master. And what has it profited them? The longer they search, the farther they get from the goal. They have hoped to guide humanity to a better way, but their torch is dim and flickering and threatens to be extinguished by each new revelation of truth. Their poor, misguided efforts have brought the world to a sorry crisis.
But the outlook is by no means hopeless. So long as one righteous nation stands, there is assurance that the treasures of the ages shall be held inviolate, and that truth shall not perish from the earth. The things that make men decent and self-respecting must be held in trust by the free men of the earth, for generations yet unborn. There must not be a blacking out of these high values because of indifference.
There is a tendency today to treat serious matters with a light flippancy. The wisdom of the world is being phrased in a pun and laughed off. The most profound thoughts of the wisest teachers of the past are being caricatured in cheap jokes. If we permit shoddy pretence to undermine the fundamentals of the present, are we not defeating the purpose of the future?
The harvest of the years has fallen onto the threshing floor of our own time. The truth that is being winnowed from the chaff is in our keeping. In passing it on to the next generation, are we going to permit it to lose any of its vitality or beauty because of our lack of vision, our failure to interpret truly, or our cowardice in expressing it? Unless we are attuned to truth, how can we recognize real values? If some of the rulers of the earth had not wantonly thrown away the key to happiness, vast armed forces would not now be walking in the shamble of death and destruction.
Truth is as old as time. It is a precious and enduring gift of Divinity to man. Though it is a gift, man may possess it only through earnest desire and vigilant search. Having found it, he must cherish it and use it if he would not lose it. The Master came to bring the true pattern of life to mankind. It was so precious that He was willing to die for it. In its long journey down the years it has not lost any of its worth or beauty. Its guiding light reaches out across the world. By following that light, men may walk out of the narrow streets of chaos and despair onto the broad highway of law and order, of good fellowship, and of brotherly love. The Gospel is for every nation, kindred, tongue and people. A universal acceptance of its truths will bring a logical solution to all the problems of life, for it is the key to eternal peace and joy and progress. It brings assurance and comfort and forward-looking hope. It is radiant with the light of truth, the light that never fails.
Did not the Master say: "I am the light of the world... I am the way, the truth, and the life.... Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.... Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you."

"WHAT means this glory round our feet," The Magi mused, "more bright than morn?" And voices chanted clear and sweet, "Today the Prince of Peace is born!" —James Russell Lowell.

HAPPENINGS