[Vol27 | December 1940 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Theology and Snow]
The  Lord's  Tenth— Lorenzo  Snow 
(Tuesday,  March  4,  1941) 
"And  after  that,  those  who  have  thus  been  tithed  shall  pay  one-tenth  of  all  their 
interest  annually;  and  this  shall  be  a  standing  law  unto  them  forever,  for  my  holy  priest- 
hood, saith  the  Lord."  (Doctrine  and  Covenants  119:4) 
T  ORENZO  SNOW,  as  a  young 
man,  entered  Oberlin  College  at 
Oberlin,  Ohio,  which  was  then  an 
orthodox  Presbyterian  institution. 
Although  of  a  religious  frame  of 
mind,  he  was  not  impressed  by  the 
sectarianism  of  the  college  environ- 
ment. During  these  college  years, 
he  wrote,  "If  there  is  nothing  better 
than  is  to  be  found  here  in  Oberlin 
College,  goodbye  to  all  religions." 
HIS  CONVERSION 
During  his  period  at  college,  his 
beloved  sister  and  confidante,  Eliza 
Roxey  Snow,  had  embraced  "Mor- 
monism"  and  moved  to  Kirtland. 
Lorenzo  desired  to  study  Hebrew; 
and  as  there  was  then  at  Kirtland  a 
capable  Hebrew  scholar  teaching  this 
language  to  some  of  the  brethren, 
he  went  there  and  enrolled  in  the 
Hebrew  school.  The  religion  of  his 
associates  did  not  interest  him  at 
first,  but  shortly  afterwards,  due  to 
contacts  with  the  Prophet  and  other 
leading  brethren,  he  was  baptized  in 
June,  1836,  being  then  in  his  twenty- 
third  year.  From  this  time  onward 
until  his  death,  he  was  identified  as 
one  of  the  vanguard  of  the  Builders 
of  the  Kingdom  of  God  on  earth. 
PUBLIC  AND 
ECCLESIASTICAL  SERVICE 
In  addition  to  several  missions 
within  the  United  States,  he  served 
an  extended  mission  in  Great  Britain, 
assisted  in  the  rededication  of  Pal- 
estine, visited  Hawaii,  opened  the 
missionary  work  in  Italy,  and  planned 
for  its  introduction  in  Switzerland, 
Malta,  British  India,  Russia,  Austria, 
and  South  America.  For  twenty- 
nine  years,  he  was  a  member  of  the 
legislative  assembly  of  Utah  and  was 
president  of  its  council  for  ten  years. 
His  influence  in  the  establishment 
and  development  of  industries  and 
cooperative  ventures  in  Utah  settle- 
ments is  monumental. 
THEOLOGICAL  TEACHING 
A  consideration  of  Lorenzo  Snow 
would  not  be  complete  without 
reference  to  a  statement  made  by

842 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER,  1940 
him,  but  which  has  been  variously 
attributed  to  almost  all  of  the  early 
Church  leaders.  While  on  his  mis- 
sion to  England  (1840-1843),  he 
formulated  the  expression,  "As  man 
now  is,  God  once  was;  as  God  now  is, 
man  may  be,"  and  wrote  this 
statement  in  a  letter  to  his  sister, 
Eliza  R.  Snow,  at  Nauvoo.  Later 
it  became  a  current  saying  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  While  the  credit 
for  creating  this  meaningful  couplet 
belongs  to  Lorenzo  Snow,  the  doc- 
trinal teaching  upon  which  it  was 
based  had  its  origin  in  the  teachings 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
TRAINING  IN  PRACTICAL 
LEADERSHIP 
In  1847,  a  year  and  a  half  before 
he  was  called  to  be  an  apostle,  he 
was  placed  in  charge  of  Mt.  Pisgah, 
one  of  the  temporary  settlements  of 
the  scattered  Saints  in  Iowa.  Pov- 
erty and  sickness  were  rampant  in 
the  camp.  He  manifested  great  abil- 
ity as  an  organizer  by  sending  some 
of  the  brethren  to  neighboring  non- 
Mormon  settlements  to  secure  work, 
the  payment  for  their  services  to  be 
made  in  food.  Others  were  placed 
at  work  manufacturing  furniture, 
churns,  barrels,  etc.,  that  could  be 
sold  to  the  permanent  settlers  of 
the  surrounding  country.  Those 
capable  of  making  and  repairing 
wagons  were  set  to  these  tasks,  in 
preparation  for  the  intended  journey 
to  the  West.  In  addition,  he  ar- 
ranged to  keep  the  morale  of  the 
community  healthful  by  fostering 
recreational  and  religious  activities. 
In  1853,  Lorenzo  Snow  was  called 
to  settle  at  Brigham  City,  which 
place  he  considered  his  home  for 
the  following  forty  years.  Here  he 
became  the  moving  power  in  the 
organization  and  direction  of  the 
Brigham  City  Mercantile  and  Manu- 
facturing Association  —  an  indus- 
trial, agricultural  cooperative  ex- 
periment. The  association  engaged 
in  merchandising,  operated  a  tan- 
nery, a  shoe  manufacturing  estab- 
lishment, harness  and  saddle  shops, 
a  woolen  mill,  a  cotton  factory 
with  a  cotton  farm  in  the  southern 
part  of  the  state  to  supply  the  raw 
materials,  a  dairy,  butcher  shops, 
flour  mills,  a  hat  factory,  etc.  The 
association  also  owned  cattle  and 
sheep.  Altogether,  there  were  about 
forty  industrial  branches  successfully 
operating  during  a  nine-year  period. 
The  products  from  the  experiment 
during  the  year  1875  were  valued  at 
$260,000. 
AS  PRESIDENT  OF 
THE  CHURCH 
When  Lorenzo  Snow  became  Pres- 
ident of  the  Church  in  October, 
1898,  he  made  a  statement  that  was 
characteristic  of  his  retiring  nature. 
"I  do  not  want  this  administration 
to  be  known  as  Lorenzo  Snow's  ad- 
ministration," he  said,  "but  as  God's, 
in  and  through  Lorenzo  Snow." 
With  the  conviction  that  he  was  but 
the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the 
Almighty,  he  set  about  to  deal  with 
the  various  problems  that  were  con- 
fronting the  Church.  The  most 
pressing  of  these  was  that  of  Church 
finances.  Due  to  the  escheatment 
of  Church  property  during  the  anti- 
polygamy  conflict  and  various  indus- 
trial developments  which  the  Church 
had  undertaken  for  the  temporal 
benefit  of  the  Saints  and  their  com- 
munities, the  Church  was  heavily  in 
debt.  President  Snow  now  com- 
menced to  utilize  the  wide  experience 
he  had  gained  in  temporal  affairs.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
843 
By  issuing  $1,000,000  in  short-term 
bonds,  all  of  which  were  purchased 
locally,  he  was  able  to  meet  the  most 
pressing  obligations. 
REVIVAL  OF  THE  PRINCIPLE 
OF  TITHING 
While  at  St.  George,  Utah,  in  the 
spring  of  1899,  he  received  a  revela- 
tion that  the  Saints  must  repent  of 
their  indifference  to  the  law  of  tith- 
ing and  commence  to  observe  it  more 
faithfully,  or  they  would  find  that 
many  of  their  blessings  would  be 
withdrawn.  During  the  decades  pre- 
ceding this  event,  there  had  been  a 
growing  laxity  in  the  observance  of 
this  practice.  Its  revival  was  essential 
for  the  temporal  and  spiritual  wel- 
fare of  both  the  people  and  the 
Church.  As  President  Snow  jour- 
neyed northward,  he  preached  the 
law  of  tithing  at  every  stopping  place, 
and  the  remainder  of  the  year  1899 
became  a  year  of  tithe-preaching  and 
tithe-paying  throughout  the  stakes 
and  missions  of  the  Church. 
The  Young  Men's  and  Young 
Women's  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociations were  convened  in  their 
annual  conference  when  President 
Snow  reached  Salt  Lake  City.  He 
availed  himself  of  the  opportunity, 
when  addressing  the  officers'  meeting 
of  the  Young  Men's  organization  on 
May  30,  to  appeal  to  them  for  their 
support  in  sustaining  the  law  of  tith- 
ing. At  the  conclusion  of  his  dis- 
course, the  following  resolution  was 
presented  to  the  representatives  of 
nearly  every  stake  in  the  Church  and 
unanimously  adopted  by  them :  "Re- 
solved: That  we  accept  the  doctrine 
of  tithing,  as  now  presented  by  Pres- 
ident Snow,  as  the  present  word  and 
will  of  the  Lord  unto  us,  and  we 
accept  it  with  all  our  hearts;  we  will 
ourselves  observe  it,  and  we  will  do 
all  in  our  power  to  get  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  do  likewise." 
This  ready  response  of  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  youth  of  the  Church 
to  his  appeal  to  support  the  tithe 
system  visibly  affected  the  aged  pres- 
ident. Arising  again,  he  said:  "Breth- 
ren, the  God  of  our  Fathers  bless 
you.  Every  man  who  is  here,  who 
has  made  this  promise,  will  be  saved 
in  the  Celestial  Kingdom.  God 
bless  you.   Amen." 
On  July  2  of  that  year,  a  special 
fast  meeting  and  solemn  assembly 
was  held  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple, 
at  which  623  persons  were  present, 
representing  every  ward  and  stake  in 
the  Church.  The  meeting  had  been 
called  by  President  Snow  to  present 
the  matter  of  tithing  observance  for 
their  consideration.  The  group 
unanimously  accepted  the  resolution 
formerly  adopted  by  the  Y.  M.  M. 
I.  A.  officers. 
Tlie  result  of  this  new  emphasis 
upon  an  old  principle  was  that  every- 
where in  the  Church  people  became 
"tithing-conscious"  and  commenced 
returning  to  the  Lord  that  which  was
