[Vol27 | December 1940 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Our Homes October Jr]
770 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER,   1940 
Garfield  County  and  the  establish- 
ment of  the  former  owners  in  homes 
on  better  land  in  other  parts  of  the 
state.  Through  its  rural  rehabilita- 
tion division,  the  FSA  makes  loans 
to  impoverished  farmers  unable  to 
obtain  credit  from  other  agencies,  for 
the  purchase  of  livestock,  equip- 
ment, repairs,  and  supplies  to  enable 
them  to  become  self-supporting.  Un- 
der the  farm  tenancy  program,  the 
FSA  makes  loans  to  tenants,  share- 
croppers, and  farm  laborers  to  enable 
them  to  buy  family-size  farms.  In 
addition  to  making  loans,  the  FSA 
also  distributes  cash  subsistence 
grants  to  the  farm  families  under  its 
care.  These  grants  are  not  subject 
to  repayment  and  represent  a  form 
of  direct  public  relief.  Relief  So- 
ciety presidents  who  are  responsible 
for  determining  the  needs  of  rural 
families  applying  for  assistance  from 
the  Church  should  be  aware  of  this 
type  of  federal  aid  which  is  going 
into  many,  farm  families. 
Social  Security  Act 
'pHE  other  federal  welfare  provi- 
sions  to  which  I  shall  refer  are 
all  encompassed  in  the  Social  Se- 
curity Act,  which  was  passed  by 
Congress  in  August,  1935,  and 
amended  in  some  respects  in  1939. 
Six  of  the  titles  or  sections  of  this 
Act  provide  for  grants  of  funds  to 
the  several  states  for  various  pur- 
poses, but  these  grants  become  ef- 
fective only  in  those  states  which 
comply  with  their  provisions  and 
which  participate  financially  by 
matching  the  federal  funds  with  a 
certain  proportion  of  state  funds. 
The  provisions  of  these  titles  are  ad- 
ministered by  the  participating 
states  but  under  the  supervision  of 
the  Federal  Government.  One  other 
title  is  administered  directly  by  the 
Federal  Government  and  requires 
neither  acceptance  nor  financial  par- 
ticipation by  the  states. 
Service  Provisions 
npWO  of  these  titles  provide  for  di- 
rect and  indirect  services  to  indi- 
viduals and  communities.  These 
services  relate  to  crippled  children, 
maternal  and  child  health,  child- 
welfare  services,  vocational  rehabili- 
tation of  the  physically  handicapped, 
and  public  health  work.  Time  will 
not  permit  a  description  of  these 
services,  but  they  are  all  operative  in 
the  State  of  Utah,  and  you  know 
them  in  your  own  communities  as 
the  public-health  units  serving  one 
or  more  counties;  as  the  county  pub- 
lic-health nurse;  the  clinics  for 
mothers  and  children;  the  traveling 
dental  unit;  the  specialized  child- 
welfare  worker  who  is  interested  in 
the  children  in  your  community  who 
have  serious  behavior  problems,  who 
are  unadjusted  to  school,  who  are 
orphaned,  deserted,  neglected,  or  in 
danger  of  becoming  delinquent.  You 
also  see  the  evidence  of  these  social 
security  services  in  the  crippled  chil- 
dren who  are  sought  out  in  depend- 
ent and  low-income  families  and 
given  the  corrective  treatment  which 
their  families  cannot  afford,  and  in 
the  physically-handicapped  individ- 
uals who  are  trained  or  re-trained 
vocationally  so  that  they  will  be  able 
to  earn  a  livelihood  despite  their 
handicaps.  All  these  services  are 
resources  at  your  disposal  to  which 
you  can  turn  for  help  in  meeting  and 
solving  some  of  the  health  problems, 
some  of  the  behavior  and  other 
problems  which  confront  every  Re-

RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE 
771 
lief  Society  president  in  her  family 
welfare  work. 
Social  Insurance 
pIVE  titles  of  the  Social  Security 
Act  provide  for  direct  money 
payments  to  individuals.  Two  of 
these  titles  relate  to  social  insurance 
benefits  and  three  titles  provide  for 
direct  grants  of  public  assistance  to 
the  needy  aged,  blind,  and  depend- 
ent children.  The  two  social  insur- 
ance provisions  are  unemployment 
compensation  and  old-age  and  sur- 
vivors insurance.  The  benefits  paid 
under  both  of  these  provisions  are 
derived  from  employment  taxes,  and 
go  chiefly  to  low  or  average  wage 
workers  who,  ordinarily,  are  unable 
to  lay  away  savings  for  periods  of 
unemployment  or  for  their  old  age. 
The  Bishop's  Handbook  for  1940 
says,  with  respect  to  Church  mem- 
bers, "Workers  who  are  entitled  to 
unemployment  compensation  and 
individuals  covered  by  old-age  insur- 
ance should  be  counseled  to  accept 
these  benefits."  Relief  Society  pres- 
idents should  be  aware  of  these  two 
sources  of  cash  income  when  con- 
sidering applications  for  assistance 
from  those  who  are  eligible  for  these 
benefits.  However,  there  are  large 
groups  of  workers  in  the  United 
States  who  are  not  covered  by  either 
of  these  forms  of  social  insurance. 
The  uninsured  workers  are  domestic 
servants  in  private  homes,  agricul- 
tural labor,  and  employees  of  non- 
profit institutions  such  as  federal, 
state,  and  local  units  of  government, 
churches,  and  charitable  organiza- 
tions. 
The  one  form  of  social  insurance 
—unemployment  compensation— is 
a  system  under  which  a  man  or 
woman  who  loses  employment  will, 
while  unemployed  or  partially  un- 
employed, be  paid  unemployment 
benefits  in  proportion  to  previous 
wages  for  a  limited  period  of  time. 
In  order  to  accumulate  a  fund  from 
which  these  benefits  are  paid,  con- 
tributions are  required  by  law  of  all 
employers  of  four  or  more  workers, 
except  in  the  exempted  types  of  em- 
ployment already  mentioned.  The 
workers  themselves  do  not  pay  any- 
thing into  this  fund.  The  purpose 
of  this  compensation  is  to  tide  work- 
ers over  between  jobs,  so  that  they 
will  have  some  measure  of  security 
during  periods  of  unemployment. 
Relief  Society  women  will  be  inter- 
ested in  the  fact  that  unemployed 
women  receive  about  one-third  of 
the  total  amount  paid  as  unemploy- 
ment compensation. 
The  other  social  insurance  title 
of  the  Social  Security  Act  provides 
for  old-age  benefits  and  survivors 
insurance.  This  is  the  one  provision 
of  the  Social  Security  Act  which  is 
administered  directly  by  the  Federal 
Government  throughout  the  United 
States,  and  which  does  not  depend 
upon  some  measure  of  financial  par- 
ticipation by  the  states.  This  is  a 
form  of  insurance  payable,  irre- 
spective of  need,  to  retired  workers 
after  they  become  65  years  of  age, 
or  to  their  survivors.  The  benefits 
are  payable  monthly  to  the  bene- 
ficiaries for  the  rest  of  their  lives. 
The  trust  fund  from  which  these  in- 
surance benefits  are  paid  is  derived 
from  a  tax  on  the  wages  of  workers, 
and  this  tax  is  payable  by  both  the 
worker  and  his  employer.  The 
amount  of  these  benefits  is  based  on 
the  number  of  years  during  which 
each  individual's  wages  were  taxed 
and  the  amount  of  such  wages. 
About   28  million   workers   in  the

772 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER,   1940 
United  States  come  under  the  pro- 
visions of  this  Act,  and  it  is  for  this 
purpose  that  workers  throughout  the 
nation  are  registered  and  assigned 
identifying  Social  Security  numbers. 
Again,  you  will  be  interested  to  know 
that  about  one-third  of  the  workers 
covered  by  this  form  of  insurance  are 
women.  More  than  three  million 
dollars  per  month  is  now  being  paid 
throughout  the  United  States  to 
1 50,000  retired  workers  or  their  aged 
wives,  widows,  orphans  or  dependent 
parents.  The  purpose  of  this  type 
of  insurance  is  to  give  some  measure 
of  security  to  those  individuals  and 
their  families  who  are  no  longer  em- 
ployable because  of  old  age,  and  to 
give  it  as  a  matter  of  right  from  the 
trust  fund  to  which  they  contributed 
during  their  earning  years. 
Public- Assistance  Giants 
gENEFITS  under  this  plan  could 
not,  of  course,  begin  immediate- 
ly upon  passage  of  the  Social  Security 
Act  in  1935,  ^^t  "^"^y  ^^^^^  ^  period 
of  time  during  which  credits  could 
accrue  to  the  workers.  Therefore,  in 
order  to  assist  those  needy  individu- 
als already  65  years  of  age  or  older, 
and  those  not  covered  by  this  federal 
plan  of  old-age  insurance,  the  Social 
Security  Act  also  provided  for  the 
payment  of  old-age  assistance  —  a 
form  of  direct  relief  for  those  65 
years  of  age  and  older  who  are  in 
need.  This  is  one  of  the  three  pub- 
lic-assistance titles  of  the  Social  Se- 
curity Act,  the  other  two  being  for 
dependent  children  and  for  the 
needy  blind.  In  providing  for  these 
three  dependent,  industrially  unem- 
ployable groups,  it  was  the  purpose 
of  the  Social  Security  Act  to  extend 
to  them  some  measure  of  security- 
rather  than  the  emergency  relief 
of  the  three  previous  years,  or  the 
uncertain  and  inadequate  counts 
pensions  which,  during  the  preceding 
twenty-five  years,  had  been  paid  only 
by  some  counties  in  some  states. 
Hence,  even  the  term  "relief"  is 
avoided  with  reference  to  these  three 
groups,  and  the  term  "assistance" 
used  instead. 
HTHE  general  provisions  of  each  of 
these  three  public-assistance 
titles  of  the  Social  Security  Act  are 
very  similar.  They  all  specify  need 
as  the  basis  for  individual  grants,  and 
stipulate  that  the  assistance  given 
must  be  in  the  form  of  cash  grants, 
and  that  it  must  be  paid  direct  to 
eligible  individuals  in  their  own 
homes.  Consequently,  these  public- 
assistance  grants  cannot  be  paid  to 
individuals  who  are  receiving  care  in 
institutions— a  reversal  of  the  policy 
in  effect  for  nearly  two  hundred 
years  under  the  early  poor-relief  laws 
when  almshouse  care  was  considered 
to  be  the  best  method  of  providing 
for  the  poor.  In  each  of  these  three 
types  of  aid,  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment pays  one-half  of  the  individual 
cash  grants  up  to  a  specified  maxi- 
mum, and  tire  state  and  counties 
pay  the  other  half.  In  Utah,  the 
state  law  stipulates  that  counties  con- 
tribute 15  per  cent  of  these  grants, 
and  the  state  sales  tax  therefore 
meets  35  per  cent.  In  order  for  any 
state  to  qualify  for  these  federal 
public-assistance  grants,  the  state's 
plans  for  these  types  of  aid  must 
be  in  effect  in  all  counties  of  the 
state  and  mandatory  upon  them;  the 
state  must  be  authorized  to  partici- 
pate with  funds  appropriated  or 
made  available  out  of  the  state  treas- 
ury; and  the  grants  must  be  issued

RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE 
throughout  the  state  under  the  su- 
pervision of  a  single  state  agency. 
In  Utah,  this  single  state  agency  is 
the  Department  of  Public  Welfare, 
which  operates  through  a  Depart- 
ment of  Public  Welfare  in  each  coun- 
ty. These  requirements  insure  the 
extension  of  these  types  of  public  as- 
sistance to  all  counties  of  the  state 
and  tend  toward  uniformity  of  ad- 
ministration in  all  counties.  Most 
states,  including  Utah,  impose  the 
maximum  residence  restrictions  per- 
mitted by  the  Social  Security  Act 
with  respect  to  individuals  applying 
for  these  types  of  aid. 
In  order  to  qualify  for  old-age 
assistance,  an  individual  must  have 
reached  his  65th  birthday,  and  must 
be  in  need.  Aid  to  dependent  chil- 
dren is  granted  with  respect  to  chil- 
dren under  16  years  of  age,  and  with 
respect  to  children  between  16  and 
18  years  of  age  who  are  in  school, 
provided  all  such  children  are  de- 
prived of  parental  support  or  care 
by  reason  of  the  death,  continued 
absence  from  the  home,  or  disability 
of  either  parent,  and  provided  they 
are  living  with  their  mother,  or  with 
other  relatives  coming  within  the 
twelve  degrees  of  relationship  speci- 
fied in  the  Social  Security  Act.  Aid 
to  the  blind  is  granted  to  adults  in 
Utah  who  are  in  need  and  who  have 
a  specified  degree  of  blindness  as  de- 
termined by  ophthalmic  measure- 
ment. Under  authorization  of  the 
1939  Utah  State  legislature,  the  De- 
partment of  Public  Welfare  also 
provides  "medical  and  surgical  eye 
care  and  other  sight  conservation 
work."  Old-age  assistance  plans  are 
in  effect  in  every  state  and  county  in 
the  United  States,  and  there  are 
nearly  2  million  recipients  of  old- 
age  grants.    Aid  to  the  needy  blind 
773 
is  extended  to  about  48,000  indi- 
viduals living  in  43  states,  and  grants 
are  made  in  42  states  for  more  than 
800,000  children  living  with  widowed 
mothers  or  other  relatives. 
Genera]  Relief 
TN  every  state  there  is  a  group  of  de- 
pendents not  coming  under  pro- 
visions of  either  the  federal  Works 
Program  or  the  public-assistance 
titles  of  the  Social  Security  Act,  or 
who  are  covered  by  these  provisions 
but  do  not  receive  care  thereunder 
because  of  limited  public  funds. 
This  group  is  composed  largely  of 
physically  handicapped  or  otherwise 
unemployable  individuals,  and  also 
of  employable  individuals  who  for 
various  reasons  cannot  be  employed 
on  WPA  projects.  The  public  aid 
extended  to  these  individuals  is 
termed  "general  assistance,"  in 
contra-distinction  to  the  special 
types  of  aid  for  classified  groups.  Al- 
though formerly  issued  principally  in 
the  form  of  commodities,  almost  all 
general  relief  in  Utah  is  now  issued 
in  the  form  of  cash.  There  have 
been  no  federal  funds  for  this  type 
of  aid  since  withdrawal  of  the  emer- 
gency relief  (FERA)  funds  at  the 
end  of  1935.  Therefore,  general 
public  relief  in  Utah  is  provided 
from  15  per  cent  county  funds  and 
85  per  cent  state  sales  tax  funds. 
Surplus  Commodities 
\  LL  recipients  of  public  assistance 
also  receive  regularly,  in  addition 
to  their  cash  allowances,  surplus 
commodities  in  the  form  of  food, 
clothing,  and  household  articles  such 
as  towels  and  bedding.  These  com- 
modities are  made  available  through 
the  Federal  Surplus  Commodities 
Corporation     which    buys    surplus

774 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER,   1940 
foods  and  textiles,  and  distributes 
them  without  charge  to  certified  re- 
cipients of  pubhc  rehef  as  a  means 
of  removing  surpluses  from  the  mar- 
ket and  stabilizing  farm  prices. 
These  surplus  commodities  are  is- 
sued as  an  addition  to  the  family's 
relief  allowance,  not  as  a  part  of  it. 
Need  Deteimined 
ALL  three  of  the  special  types  of 
public  assistance,  as  well  as  gen- 
eral relief,  are  issued  on  the  basis  of 
need;  in  Utah  need  is  determined  in 
each  instance  through  an  investiga- 
tion by  a  case  worker  in  the  County 
Department  of  Public  Welfare.  For 
old-age  assistance,  the  Utah  law 
specifies  need  as  an  income  of  less 
than  $30  per  month;  for  all  other 
types  of  aid,  need  is  determined  by 
means  of  a  standard  budget  which 
serves  as  a  uniform  measure  of  the 
minimum  requirements  of  indi- 
vidual families.  From  this  indi- 
vidualized family  budget  is  sub- 
tracted the  resources  and  income  of 
the  household,  and  the  deficiency 
thus  established  represents  the 
amount  of  public  assistance  required. 
In  subtracting  the  resources  and  in- 
come of  the  household,  the  public 
agency  must  take  into  account  the 
income  from  all  sources,  including 
relief  provided  by  any  other  agency, 
such  as  the  bishop  or  ward  Relief 
Society  president.  In  other  words, 
the  public  assistance  funds  are  used 
to  supply  that  portion  of  the  needs 
of  the  individual  or  family  which 
cannot  be  provided  from  private  re- 
sources. 
This  means,  then,  that  if  the 
Church  puts  relief  into  the  same 
family  which  also  receives  assistance 
from  the  county,  and  for  the  same 
purposes  as  those  specified  in  the 
public-relief  budget,  the  county  is 
obligated  to  consider  such  Church 
relief  as  income  for  the  family,  and 
to  deduct  it  from  the  amount  of  pub- 
lic relief  which  would  otherwise  be 
given.  Wherever  the  ward  supple- 
ments public  assistance  in  this  way, 
the  Church  is  actually  shouldering  a 
part  of  the  legal  responsibility  of  the 
public  agency.  Although  such  sup- 
plementary aid  by  the  Church  may 
decrease  the  amount  of  money  ex- 
pended for  public  relief,  it  does  not 
decrease  the  number  of  individuals 
actually  receiving  some  measure  of 
public  aid.  The  case  counts  of  the 
public  agency  necessarily  include 
those  who  are  partially  dependent 
as  well  as  those  who  are  entirely  de- 
pendent upon  it.  Consequently,  the 
effect  of  Church  aid  on  the  public 
relief  rolls  would  be  more  evident  if 
that  proportion  of  Church  relief 
which  now  goes  toward  supplemen- 
tation of  public  relief  in  a  great  many 
families  were  used,  instead,  to  lift 
even  a  few  of  those  families  from 
public  relief  entirely. 
Church  Welfare  Program 
ESPITE  the  varied  and  extensive 
public  welfare  provisions  which  I 
have  described  briefly,  there  is  vital 
need  of  the  Church  welfare  program. 
Not  only  does  it  foster  industry, 
thrift,  self-reliance,  cooperation,  and 
mutual  helpfulness  among  all  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  but  it  can  serve 
the  dependent  and  underprivileged 
in  at  least  four  general  classifications: 
First,  it  extends  aid  to  its  faithful 
members  who  are  in  need  but  unable 
to  work.  Second,  it  provides  em- 
ployment for  those  able  to  work  in 
exchange  for  their  needs,  including 
particularly  those  who  are  unem- 
ployable in  private  industry  or  on 
D