[Vol27 | December 1940 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Woman]
ViSiting  oJeacher 
MESSAGES  TO  THE  HOME 
How  We  May  Honor  Priesthood  in  the  Home 
No.  6 
Spiritual  [Preparation  of  the  uiome 
(Tuesday,  March  4,  1941 ) 
"Now  we  have  received,  not  the  spirit  of  the  world,  but  the  Spirit  which  is  of  God; 
that  we  might  know  the  things  that  are  freely  given  to  us  of  God."  (I  Corinthians  2:12) 
because  of  Priesthood  activities 
which  take  the  father  away  from 
home,  and  an  attitude  of  encourage- 
ment to  him  in  the  performance  of 
his  duties,  cannot  fail  to  impress  the 
children  with  the  importance  of  the 
Priesthood. 
The  ordination  of  a  boy  to  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  can  be  made  a 
special  event  in  the  home.  There 
could  be  a  program  of  stories  and 
incidents  which  show  the  blessings 
and  powers  of  this  Priesthood,  as  well 
as  a  history  of  its  restoration  in  our 
time. 
Prayer,  both  family  and  individual, 
is  a  spiritual  power  in  any  home. 
Home  Discussion  Helps 
"It  is  the  spirit  which  leads  us  to  the 
performance  of  our  duties."  Without  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel,  we  have  only  the  form, 
which  is  without  real  power  for  good. 
npHE  spirit  of  the  home  is  the  im- 
portant and  lasting  element.  Its 
influence  goes  on  long  after  the  phys- 
ical aspects  are  forgotten. 
The  spiritual  preparation  of  the 
home  for  honoring  the  Priesthood 
depends  largely  upon  the  attitudes 
which  are  cultivated  there  and  which 
are  unconsciously  absorbed  by  the 
children.  An  attitude  of  cooperation 
and  helpfulness  toward  the  ward 
bishop  and  other  Church  officers, 
rather  than  one  of  criticism,  creates 
confidence  and  respect  for  them  in 
the  minds  of  children.  The  ward 
teachers  visit  homes  of  Church  mem- 
bers by  authority  of  the  Priesthood, 
and  the  spirit  with  which  they  are 
received  and  the  honor  shown  them 
will  also  have  its  effect  on  the  mem- 
bers of  the  family.  An  absence  of 
complaint  on  the  part  of  the  mother 
vi/ork-and-  ujusiness 
NUTRITION 
Lesson  6 
Food  for  the  Older  Woman 
(Tuesday,  March  11,  1941) 
npHE  wisest  time  to  make  plans     comes  an  older  woman.     Doctors 
for  the  diet  of  the  older  woman      who  specialize   in   diseases   of   the 
is  during  the  years  before  she  be-     older  age-groups  claim   that  many

846 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER,  1940 
disturbances  of  later  life  might  have 
been  prevented  through  better  food 
selection  during  the  earlier  adult 
years.  Much  of  the  treatment  for 
the  ailments  of  older  people  is 
dietary,  with  special  emphasis  on  the 
protective  foods.  Fruits,  vegetables, 
and  milk  are  used  extensively.  Diet 
will  neither  cure  nor  prevent  all  dis- 
orders, although  many  of  them  do 
come  from  a  lifetime  of  poor  food 
habits. 
An  adequate  food  supply  served 
on  a  regular  meal  schedule  is  just  as 
important  in  maintaining  the  body 
in  a  state  of  good  health  as  one  grows 
older  as  it  was  in  producing  a  healthy 
body  during  childhood.  The  older 
woman  is  less  active,  her  body  pro- 
cesses slow  down,  and  she  needs 
fewer  calories  than  during  her 
younger  adult  years.  This  means  cut- 
ting down  on  starches,  sugars,  and 
fats.  She  still  has  the  same  need  for 
minerals,  vitamins  and  proteins  as 
when  she  was  more  active. 
Because  so  much  attention  has 
been  centered  on  child  nutrition  dur- 
ing the  recent  past,  many  adults  have 
taken  the  attitude  that  childhood  is 
the  only  time  when  adequate  nutri- 
tion is  important,  and  consequently 
are  extremely  careless  with  their  own 
food  selection.  Women  who  live 
alone  are  the  greatest  offenders 
against  good  nutrition  for  themselves. 
Frequent  comments  are,  "Oh,  that 
doesn't  apply  to  me.  My  family  is 
grown.  I  live  alone.  It  doesn't 
matter  what  I  eat.  Besides,  I  lost 
all  my  teeth  years  ago." 
A  few  years  of  nutritional  neglect 
may  result  in  constipation,  chronic 
indigestion,  stomach  ulcers,  colitis 
and  various  other  ailments  of  the 
digestive  tract.  Overweight  is  a 
common  result  of  wrong  diet. 
Overweight  lowers  life  expectancy. 
Insurance  companies  advocate  that 
the  normal  weight  of  a  person  at  age 
thirty  is  the  ideal  weight  for  them 
when  older.  Some  people  store  fat 
more  easily  as  they  grow  older. 
When  the  food  intake  exceeds  the 
daily  energy  demands,  the  surplus  is 
stored  as  body  fat.  This  is  the  first 
principle  to  consider  in  weight  con- 
trol, whether  the  need  is  for  gaining, 
reducing,  or  maintaining  weight  as 
it  is. 
Moderate  vitamin  and  mineral  de- 
ficiency can  affect  health  adversely, 
not  only  during  childhood  but  also 
as  the  years  progress.  Recent  re- 
search points  to  a  higher  Vitamin  C 
need  as  age  advances.  Many  vague 
symptoms  of  ill  health  are  probably 
due  to  C  deficiency.  People  who 
have  artificial  teeth  frequently  suf- 
fer from  sore  gums  and  sore  mouth 
tissue  underneath  their  plates.  Diets 
high  in  Vitamin  C  help  to  correct 
this  condition.  Adults  need  liberal 
supplies  of  Vitamin  B^  for  the  health 
of  the  digestive  tract.  As  the  years 
advance  and  the  caloric  intake  is 
lowered  to  adjust  to  lowered  phys- 
ical activity,  it  is  especially  important 
to  keep  the  Vitamin  B^  supply  at  a 
high  level. 
Research  studies  show  a  need  for 
increased  use  of  iron  foods  in  the 
diet  of  women.  One  report  suggests 
that  women  up  to  the  time  of  the 
menopause  require  about  four  times 
as  much  iron  as  do  men.  Surveys  of 
women's  diets  show  them  to  be  get- 
ting much  less  iron  than  do  men. 
The  average  woman  eats  about  800 
fewer  calories  than  does  the  average 
man.  On  the  same  type  of  diet, 
women  would  have  less  iron.  Wom- 
en use  less  meat.  The  prevalence 
of     hypo-chronic     anemia     among