[Vol27 | December 1940 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Peace]

Peace
AT the Christmas season our attention is reverently turned toward Him who was born amid the humblest of circumstances, in an improvised camp in the City of David?Jesus the Christ, the Only Begotten of the Eternal Father in the flesh. For generations men have listened to the sweet, simple, brief account of His birth, and gratitude has filled their hearts and hope burned anew within them.
The simple scriptural record tells us that shepherds were in the field "keeping watch over their flock by night.
"And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them and the glory of the Lord shone round about them; and they were sore afraid.
"And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people.
"For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.
"And this shall be a sign unto you: You shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God, and saying,
"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." (Luke 2:8-14).
This message of peace and good will toward men is the thing which has illuminated the Christmas season for 2000 years. And it is for this that we should take Christmas to our hearts with love and rejoicing.
This year the Master's message of peace must penetrate the hearts of men through the noise of bursting bombs, the din of marching feet, the hate and bitterness of selfish and Godless men. But its penetrating power is great. Though for 2,000 years there have been those who would crush it to earth, it rises again and again, touching the hearts of the righteous and leavening the wickedness of the world.
This Christmas Day the rancor and hate of men may set the cannons roaring and the bombs bursting, but the message of the Master will not be silenced. Penetrating the noise, confusion, and bitterness, it will spring up in the hearts of righteous men and women everywhere bringing comfort and peace, diminishing hate and tempering evil.
The peace which the message of the Master brings to mankind is the only enduring peace; it is a peace which the forces of evil cannot destroy. It is an inner peace, an inner state of tranquility. It is freedom from fear, agitating passions, discordant and conflicting emotions. It is the peace referred to by the ancient prophet, Isaiah, when he said: "And the work of righteousness shall be peace and the effect of righteousness, quietness and assurance forever." (Isaiah, 32:17)
It is a peace which is available to everyone if he will but open his heart and receive it. The Savior has told us: "And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars: see that ye be not troubled: for all these things must come to pass; but the end is not yet."
Latter-day Saints, whose testimonies are sufficiently strong, know peace. Whether they live in a land where only the shocking tales of death and disaster reach them or in a land where green fields and mighty cities are laid waste by the despoilment of war, they have at their command a knowledge and a spiritual strength which gives them an inner peace that transcends the most powerful destructive forces.
Those who have within their hearts a testimony of the divinity of the Christ are reminded at this Christmas season of their responsibility to those children of the Father who have not seen the light, even to those who have forgotten that they are children of the Father and who disregard His message and would set at naught His works.
"Peace on earth, good will toward men" is the Christmas message. But who shall be the peacemakers? They must be those who bear the message of the Prince of Peace.

Elder George D. Pyper
ON NOVEMBER 21, a large circle of admiring friends and relatives paid tribute to Elder George D. Pyper, General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union, at a public reception held at the Lion House Social Center in honor of his eightieth birthday. Endowed with unusual spiritual and mental vigor, gifted above the average, Elder Pyper's life has been characterized by outstanding service to his Church and community. The large number of Church and civic leaders, friends and relatives attending the reception gave evidence of the high regard and general esteem felt for the venerable Churchman. Members of the Relief Society General Board joined the group in extending birthday felicitations. Elder Pyper is well known to Relief Society women, having endeared himself to them through the pages of his book, The Romance of An Old Playhouse, which was one of the books studied in the 1937-38
Literature course. At that time, Elder Pyper graciously responded to many invitations to visit stakes and wards, interpreting for them the Latter-day Saint culture as expressed in a love of drama and in the erection of a "Cathedral in the Desert" (the Salt Lake Theatre). His long and intimate association with the theatre is unique. The Relief Society General Board expresses its appreciation to Elder Pyper for his contributions to our organization and extends best wishes for a continuance of health and vitality to perform the many tasks for which he is so well qualified.
EXCERPTS FROM "BIOGRAPHY AND FAMILY RECORD OF LORENZO SNOW" By Eliza R. Snow Smith (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"It is a noticeable feature in those who cherish a spirit of apostasy from the light of the Gospel, that they adopt the doctrine of universalism and think none too wicked for a complete and unconditional salvation." (Page 31)
"Early in the spring of 1840, I was appointed to a mission in England. I here record a circumstance which occurred a short time previous?one which has been riveted on my memory never to be erased, so extraordinary was the manifestation. At the time, I was at the house of Elder H. G. Sherwood; he was endeavoring to explain the parable of our Savior, when speaking of the husbandman who hired servants and sent them forth at different hours of the day to labor in his vineyard.
"While attentively listening to his explanation, the Spirit of the Lord rested mightily upon me?the eyes of my understanding were opened, and I saw as clear as the sun at noonday, with wonder and astonishment, the pathway of God and man. I formed the following couplet which expresses the revelation, as it was shown me, and explains Father Smith's dark saying to me at a blessing meeting in the Kirtland Temple, prior to my baptism, as previously mentioned in my first interview with the Patriarch.
As man now is, God once was; As God now is, man may be.
"I felt this to be a sacred communication, which I related to no one except my sister, Eliza, until I reached England, when in a confidential, private conversation with President Brigham Young, in Manchester, I related to him this extraordinary manifestation." (Pages 46-47)
(Traveling in France in 1852.) "In passing over the country, and searching the mind of the Spirit in reference to its inhabitants, my heart is pained in contemplating the dark, dreary and bloody fate and scourge that await this nation." (Page 202)
(While opening the Italian mission in 1850.) "Our course is often dark and difficult; but I believe that, however slow it may be for a while, it will ultimately brighten with complete success. Popery, ignorance, and superstition form a threefold barrier to our efforts. Strange customs, laws and languages surround us on every side. In a word, we feel that we are in Italy?the polluted fountain which has overspread the earth with her defiling waters." (Page 135)
"Let me say to the brethren... That the Priesthood was bestowed upon you, as upon the Son of God, for no other purpose than that through sacrifice you might be proven, that, peradventure at the last day, you might stand approved before the Lord." (Page 376)
"I would say, let this motto be that of every Elder in Israel, and of every person worthy to be called Saint: Fear not?never stand still?move on." (Page 402)
(1872) "Our mission is to the world, and not simply to carry the Gospel to the people, but to establish plans and lay foundations for their temporal salvation. Our object is as much for the temporal as for the spiritual salvation of the people. The time is approaching when the nations will be broken up, on account of their wickedness. The Latter-day Saints are not going to war against them?they will destroy themselves with their immorality and abominations. They will quarrel and contend one with another, state with state, and nation with nation, until they are broken up; and thousands, tens and hundreds of thousands will, undoubtedly, come for protection at the hands of the servants of God, as much so as in the days of Joseph of Egypt, when he was called upon to devise a plan for the salvation of the house of Israel. We have received revelations, and, accordingly, we are here in these mountain vales, and we are going to stay. We shall cultivate our farms. And lay a foundation for a time when the nations shall be broken up. Multitudes will then flee to these valleys of the mountains for safety, and we shall extend protection to them. You may say, 'Shall you require them to be baptized and become Latter-day Saints?' Not by any means." (Page 346)