[Vol12 | November 1925 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Home Again]

home; and here I sit Into the quiet night." "What is the matter, Young Fellow My Lad?

No letter again today.

Why did the postman look so sad, And sigh as he turned away?

I hear them tell that we've gained new ground, But a terrible price we've paid: God grant, my boy, that you're safe and sound; But oh I'm afraid, afraid." "They've told me the truth, Young Fellow My Lad: You'll never come-back again: (Oh God!

The dreams and the dreams I've had, And the hopes I've nursed in vain!) For you passed in the night, Young Fellow My Lad, And you proved in the cruel test Of the screaming shell and the battle hell That my boy was one of the best.

"So you'll live, you'll live, Young Fellow My Lad, In the gleam of the evening star, In the wood-note wild and the laugh of the child, In all sweet things that are.; And you'll never die, my wonderful boy, While life is noble and true; For all our beauty and hope and joy We will owe to our lads like you." GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 613 THE CONVALESCENT * * * So I walked among the willows very quietly all night; There was no moon at all, at all; no timid star alight; There was no light at all, at all; I wint from tree to tree, And I called him as his mother called, but he niver answered me.

Oh I called him all the night-time, as I walked the wood alone; And I listened and I listened, but I nivver heard a moan; Then I found him at the dawnin', when the sorry sky was red: I was looking' for the livin', but I only found the dead.

Sure I know that it was shamus by the silver cross he wore; But the bugles they were callin', and I heard the cannon roar.

Oh I had no time to tarry, so IJ said a little prayer, And I clasped his hands together, and I left him lyin' there.

Now the birds are singin', singin', and I'm home in Donegal, And it's Springtime, and I'm thinkin' that I only dreamed it all; I dreamed about that evil wood, all crowded with its dead, Where I knelt beside me brother when the battle-dawn was red.

Where I prayed beside me brother ere I wint to fight anew: Such dreams as these are evil dreams; I can't believe it's true.

Where all is love and laughter, sure it's hard to think of loss  But Mother's sayin' nothin' and she clasps?a silver cross.

CARRY ON It's easy to fight when everything's right, And you're mad with the thrill and the glory; It's easy to cheer when victory's near, And wallow in fields that are gory.

It's a different song when everything's wrong, When you're feeling infernally mortal; When it's ten against one, and hope there is none, Buck up, little soldier, and chortle: Carry on!

Carry on!

There isn't much punch in your blow.

You're glaring and staring and hitting out blind; You're muddy and bloody, but never you mind.

Carry on!

Carry on!

You haven't the ghost of a show.

It's looking like death, but while you've a breath, Carry on, my son!

Carry on! 
 And so in the strife of the battle of life It's easy to fight when you're winning; It's easy to slave, and starve and be brave, When the dawn of success is beginning.

But the man who can meet despair and defeat With a cheer, there's the man of God's choosing; The man who can fight to Heaven's own height Is the man who can fight when he's losing.

Carry on!

Carry on!

Things never were looming so black.

But show that you haven't a cowardly streak, And though you're unlucky you never are weak.

Carry on!

Carry on!

Brace up for another attack.

It's looking like hell, but?you never can tell: Carry on, old man!

Carry on!

There are some who drift out in the deserts of doubt, And some who in bruitishness wallow; There are others, I know, who in piety go Because of a Heaven to follow.

But to labor with zest, and to give of your best, For the sweetness and joy of the giving; To help folks along with a hand and a song; Why, there's the real sunshine of living.

Carry on!

Carry on!

Fight the good fight and true; Believe in your mission, greet life with a cheer; There's big work to do, and that's why you are here.

Carry on!

Carry on!

Let the world be the better for you; And at last when you die, let this be your cry: Carry on, my soul!

Carry on!

" QUESTIONS AND PROBLEM 1. Select the details to be found In Flanders' Fields that make up the realistic setting of the poem. 2. Which do you consider the most beautiful line in the second stanza?

Why? 3. Why have those who died in the great world war the right to ask us to see to it if possible that there is no recurrence of the war. 4. It has been stated that the poems of Robert W. Service are among the most picturesque that have been produced as a result of the World War, in other words, his strokes are vivid.

Select from the poem entitled Foreword some stanzas that are characterized by vivid strokes.

GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 615 5. Young Fellow My Lad is perhaps the most popular of the war poems of Robert W. Service.

How do you account for its popularity? 6. Select the group of stanzas in Carry On that are filled with a message of courage and also the spirit of courage.

E. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January) CHILD WELFARE The subject of study in this department for the coming year will be the child.

The emphasis of all betterment programs, whether in the field of health, education, behavior or economics, is being placed more and more on the child and his development.

It is almost a maxim that society's best investment is in the next generation.

It will, therefore, be the purpose of this and subsequent lessons to consider the problems of child development, and to attempt to gain some comprehension of the influences that contribute to a child's developing personality.

The whole movement of present-day child study has been stimulated by the introduction, in the last two decades, ofa new dynamic psychology.

The movement has resulted in a growing concern about the child's emotional and mental life, and in an increasing attempt to apply methods of treatment to early manifestations of instability, nervousness, and other abnormal behavior.

This attempt to study the child has been termed the mental hygiene movement, and has been fostered by psychiatrists?who are physicians who have specialized in mental health.

The alarming and increasing number of individuals who have nervous breakdowns, who are social failures because they are "queer," and who become delinquent and have criminal careers, have forced the attention of physicians, sociologists, and others interested in behavior.

With adults, the disintegrating forces have usually played much havoc and mental and emotional rehabilitation is frequently a difficult and often a hopeless task.

But it is the hope of the medical practitioner and the social worker that early discovery of symptoms and the early treatment of.

Abnormalities will save many of the next generation from failure, disappointment, unhappiness, and deterioration.

The psychiatrist deals with the entire make-up of the individual.

The physical, mental, emotional, and social problems are so closely related that it is only when all the forces 
 and influences that act on an individual are understood, that the underlying difficulty can be discovered and treated.

Children in almost every home present some type of behavior? difficulty in such common forms as fighting, nail-biting, day-~ dreaming, refusing to take food, bed-wetting, having night terrors, lying, etc. These manifestations cannot be treated by a set formula, but often an insight into the whole mental, physical, social and emotional life of the child reveals a simple cause that can be easily treated.

The term that the mental expert uses to describe the entire individual is "personality." In the text that will be used as a reference, a number of personality studies are given, and it is hoped that by analyzing this material, that some insight will be gained into the many factors that affect child behavior and development.

The term "personality" as defined by psychiatrists is the individual's total equipment.

Personality is the sum of any person's physical, mental, and emotional make-up.

The term personality, unless modified or explained can give no picture of the individual.

We can conceive, however, of a feebleminded personality, an intelligent personality, an adequate personality, and even an inadequate personality.

An inadequate personality might be an individual who cannot make the necessary adjustments to life; he perhaps fails as a student in school or has some difficulty with his school work; he perhaps has some trouble in the neighborhood and probably is a disciplinary problem at home.

As he matures, his difficulty with his environment is likely to increase and when he reaches maturity he perhaps will fail in his economic and social life.

An adequate personality would be an individual who has had a healthy normal childhood, succeeds fairly well with his school work, has no serious difficulty with his playmates, and as he matures finds some degree of success in the industrial world and becomes the head of a satisfactory family.

The influences that make for the success or failure of a personality are many.

We may classify them as physical, mental, emotional and social, although the same disturbing factor might be upsetting in all phases of development.

For instance, a condition that makes for poor health is likely also to result in a lessening of mental vigor, in some emotional upset, and in economic insecurity.

It is sometimes difficult to discover just what factor determines certain personality traits, as the causes are often obscure and interlaced.

An individual's physical and mental make-up determine to a great extent his health and happiness.

A physical handicap or a limited intelligence can be discovered by medical and mental experts, and when discovered give an insight into the individual's particular problem.

But an individual with a GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 617 sound body and a fair intelligence may still present many personality problems.

Psychologists are of the opinion that certain 'early emotional experiences and environmental influences greatly affect personality.

They claim that a person's likes and dislikes and other various emotional reactions are set at a very early age, perhaps under the age of eight or nine.

If certain strong likes are encouraged, certain fears instilled, or certain emotional habits are, cultivated in early youth, the child will be affected by these "fixations" throughout his life.

The mental hygiene movement emphasizes the need of treating the abnormal behavior of children in order to insure emotional stability in maturity.

The behavior clinic for children which have been established in a number of large cities attempts to understand the reasons underlying abnormal behavior of children who are usually regarded as wayward and delinquent.

If a child lies, if he indulges in excessive day-dreaming, if he steals, or if he runs away from home, he is not considered by mental hygienists as a child needing punishment but as a behavior problem needing treatment.

Psychiatrists do not attempt to give any general explanation for such various abnormal conduct as lying, stealing, etc., but they attempt to study each child as an individual.

No two children respond to the same set of stimuli or to the same experiences in exactly the same manner.

Two children of like physical vigor and like mentality, reared in the same home, may conduct themselves in entirely different ways.

The psychiatrist in his attempt to understand the child tries to study his personality problem, then to interpret the problem to the parent or teacher and to modify the environment as far as necessary in order to remove the irritating factors.

Reference: General Introduction, (pages 3-12), The Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile.

Note: This text is written by Dr. Wile of the National Commission for Mental Hygiene, and Director of a Behavior Clinic in a New York hospital.

The book is designed for parents, teachers, and social workers, giving practical information of Dr. Wile's study of fifty typical cases of child problems.