Every Wednesday Evening By Ivy Williams Stone. At three o'clock on Wednesday afternoon Nancy Ware was hurrying to finish her ironing. There remained only the rompers, six pairs of them for the sturdy, robust twins, also the baby's creepers. The dish towels and sheets, smoothly folded, but unironed, were piled on the table. The sink was full of milk bottles and unwashed dinner dishes. Little ripples of lint lay under the ironing board and around the table legs. Baby Jean had been fretful with her teeth, and the boys had run away. Now, in the temporary peace caused by the three little sleepers, Nancy ironed with desperate haste. She had to get through. The kitchen must be cleaned and the dining room dusted. Most good housewives would have ?heir ironings finished by Tuesday evening. Thus pondered Nancy, as the iron sputtered over 4 wax crayon in a coverall pocket. But perhaps they did not have three babies; and besides, it was her birthday. The icecream was ripening in the basement, and the cake only lacked icing. John would be sure to bring her a gift, and they would have a family celebration. Nancy hurriedly pressed the last coverall. She was leaning over to disconnect the iron when the doorbell rang with an insistence that would have awakened the sleeping babies, had it not been muffled. "Company," muttered Nancy, pulling a wry face. "Of all times!" Brushing a lock of moist hair from her forehead, she hastened to answer. There stood a Personage, who in contrast to Nancy's flushed appearance could only be called "The Cool Lady." From her perfect fresh marcel to the tips of her new tan slippers she reflected a study in personal care. "How do you do, Nancy?" The voice was musical, -perfectly modulated. "Why," floundered Nancy, struggling to place this face in the mental gallery of people she used to know. "May I come in?" A hand as white as any lily of the field opened the screen; and with a faint odor of delicate perfume, the Cool Lady entered the clean but toy-strewn room. One rocker held a set of tinker toys, another a sand dumper; while a set of blocks littered the floor. Nancy hurriedly cleared a chair and thrust it toward her guest. "O Henrietta Long," she cried triumphantly, "Where, oh where, did you drop from? Why, I haven't seen you since we graduated!" "Not since that June night when you successfully screened  John and me while we sat out a dance I cut with funny little Laffy Myers. Have you ever seen him since? I'm spending the summer with Grandma Long. Remember, I lived with her when I went to High." "And John and I have been married seven years,' mused Nancy. 'Have you. Ever?" "Never," supplied Henrietta. "Guess you think my name has been Long long enough. But I went to France as a war worker. Since then I've been teaching home economics in High School." A turn of the beautiful hands revealed nails polished and manicured to perfection. Truly Henrietta was beautiful; didn't look a day older either, except that she had a touch of arch poise. As Nancy surveyed the waxwhite profile, the drooping lids, the charming mouth, she was acutely aware that her own hands bore the stains of recent apple jelly. She knew her nails hadn't been polished for months, that her marcel was nearly gone. She was swept with an inferiority complex. She felt a surging return of the old, inexplicable resentment which Henrietta used to create. She had always seemed so superior. She had always conveyed the opinion of having the most dresses, the newest styles, the highest grades, the most beaux. How well Nancy remembered the eventful evening Henrietta had just sketched. She had been beautiful in her flowered mulle, long, of course, with three-quarter sleeves. She had always possessed a way of making the boys curious. Over little nothings, and her programs were always full. There had been an odd little fellow in their class?Lafayette Myers. But because he was queer and lived among the retorts and bottles of the chemistry laboratory, everybody called him "Laffy." Somehow he had managed a dance with Henrietta and she had cut it?and sneaked out on the balcony with John. Nancy's John! That, of course, long before he had noticed those sterling qualities which made Nancy a most desirable life companion. Laffy Myers had been unable to find Henrietta. So, after his near-sighted eyes had traversed the hall twice, he had sat the dance out with Nancy. She had been obliged to appear interested in his technical explanations of blue liquids in retorts and of the antidote for something he expected to perfect.: Nancy fancied she could still see his rapt expression, the skrewed-up face, the blinking eyes behind the thick lenses. All the time Myers had talked and Nancy had pretended to listen, she could hear Henrietta's subdued laughter from the balcony. Henrietta had really expected too much! As she faced her graceful, smiling guest, all these memories in kaleidoscopic array flashed across Nancy's mind. Henrietta's delicate yellow silk heightened the whiteness of her skin. In EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 75 contrast Nancy compared her own housedress to sack-cloth and ashes. Suddenly Henrietta sniffed and puckered her nose. "I smell, smell something burning," she said. "Oh my gracious!" cried Nancy, dashing kitchenward. "I forgot the iron!" Henrietta followed the precipitated Nancy. They found the cloth charred under the iron, but otherwise no harm done. "Are you ironing?" queried Henrietta. "Why Grandma and I finished ours Monday afternoon. Mustn't get slack, Nancy!" "I was just finishing when you rang," defended Nancy.. "Oh, no!" contradicted Henrietta, "you weren't finished. All these sheets and teatowels?" "I don't iron them," countered Nancy. "They are healthier sun kissed. All doctors claim that." "I'll iron them," announced Henrietta with finality. "They'll look so beautiful you'll want them so always. Tidy up your sink and get your dinner started. I believe I'll stay and see old John." "We have dinner at noon. But we'll be glad to have you eat supper with us, Henrietta. It's my birthday, and John will be delighted to see you." "The nicest people," added Henrietta, moving the iron with snail-like speed over the first hem of the first sheet, "The people who care, have dinner at six and lunch at noon. Supper is obsolete."' "But John can't sleep if he eats heavily at night;" and Nancy, washing dishes with lightning rapidity, felt the old sweeping resentment rising within her. Henrietta should not remodei the customs of their home with her notions on etiquette. ' Nancy finished the kitchen, dusted the dining room, cleared the litter of toys from the living room, before Henrietta reached the last hem of the fourth and last sheet. Nancy put away the coveralls and, unobserved, tucked the unironed teatowels into their proper drawer. After all, one must be courteous to the guest. "Let me put away the board." she offered. Henrietta relinquished the iron with no protest, making no inquiry about the missing towels. "I do feel rather fatigued," she admitted. "Strange how strenuous work weakens one!" The babies awakened and Nancy cuddled and mothered each one in turn. Then, while baby Jean drained her bottle, the boys were dressed in white suits. Presently two sturdy, fine specimens of future manhood stood before Henrietta. "Now" thought Nancy with pardonable pride, "Henrietta can't brag of nicer children than ours." "You should dress them in colors, Nancy, never white." "But white boils clean." began Nancy, then stopped. Why argue with Henrietta? She always would be superior.  "White," continued Henrietta, as if addressing a class in sewing, is a difficult color for even the very beautiful to wear." Here one of the twins poked an inquisitive finger toward the pale yellow silk. "Oh don't let him touch me," she cried. "He'll spoil my gown." Thus admonished, little John took refuge behind Nancy ~ and cast frightened glances toward the cool lady. Nancy hurried to prepare the meal. Supper or dinner?at least they must eat; the best linen and the sterling silver; Haviland china for the three adults; heavier ware for the boys, with a baby plate for Jean. "Why don't you give your boys the good china too?" queried Henrietta, surveying the table critically. "They can't be trusted yet," replied Nancy determined not to become ruffled. "Since the war, you can't match the better china." "Teach your children a love for the beautiful and they will treat it accordingly," chanted Henrietta in a class-room voice. "Children must be trained to handle good dishes. You should have used a boiled icing on your cake, Nancy." Nancy thought of the time little John threw his spoon and shattered her one piece of Tiffany cut glass. She also thought of the pale yellow silk he had been forbidden to touch, and smiled silently. Six o'clock brought John, carrying a confectioner's box. Nancy, looking sweet and happy in her pink frock, smiled joyously at his greeting. Thoughtful John, who never forgot! "Sweets to the sweet, Mrs. Ware," he called, extending his gift, "even if you are thirty and married." He bent to kiss her but Henrietta, who had slipped behind the door, now stepped, between them. "Not in public," she reproved archly, "it isn't good form. How do you do, Johnny? My, but you're fat!" "Why Ritta," cried John Ware, seizing her hand with what seemed to Nancy over zeal. "This is a pleasant surprise. From where, what to and why?" alte John and Henrietta the meal was food with memories. Nancy, feeding the baby and serving the boys, found little opportunity to eat. "Do you remember the time you and I cut Latin and went rowing?' queried Henrietta, tapping John familiarly with her cake fork. "You mean played hooky and got all wet on the raft?" counted John. 'This is sure some cake, Nancy. Mind if I have another piece?" "It would have been better with boiled icing," persisted Henrietta, nibbling daintily. John stopped eating and shot a quick glance at Henrietta, EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 77 then on to Nancy. Then a queer little smile puckered his lips and he almost whistled. "Do you remember the time I sprained my ankle and you practically had to carry me home?" "Um-Hum?" mumbled John eyeing the last piece of cake. "Do you remember," continued Henrietta with her old gaiety and air of mystery, "the time you coaxed me to cut Laffy's dance and hide with you on the balcony? Wasn't the moon georgeous and the lilacs heavy with perfume?" "I remember old Laffy sitting the dance out with Nancy? made me sore," mumbled John, his mouth not quite empty. "Help me up," commanded Henrietta. "Let's go sample Nancy's candy." Nancy had already risen with baby Jean in her arms. But Henrietta sat still, holding out her hand toward John who, finally understanding, gave her a none too gracious assistance. Nancy went to the bedroom; Henrietta, with never a glance toward the disheveled table, led the way to the living room. As John passed, he picked up his still unopened newspaper. "Oh, you mustn't read with guests around," admonished Henrietta, "it isn't done." As Nancy undressed the two little boys, a service usually performed by a proud father, she heard the crackling of paper as Henrietta unwrapped the precious box of candy. There was not room for many boxes of candy in their strict budget. As she tried to quiet the fretful little Jean, Henrietta's voice drifted in, musical and modulated, but always beginning, "Do you remember, Johnny?" How he loathed the term Johnny. Finally peace reigned among the three little sleepers and. Nancy tiptoed out. Henrietta had moved beside John on the divan and emphasized the high points of her reminiscences with little taps on his arm or knee. "I was surely surprised when that French Colonel kissed me and pinned the medal. Ah, Nancy, your candy was wonderful. John has a good memory. He used to buy the same kind for me!" "I really must be going," she added, "beauty sleep comes before midnight." She looked significantly at John who had slid to the far edge of the divan and was stealthily reading the headlines. "I'll walk a ways with you," smiled Nancy. "The air will do me good, and it gets rather dark before you reach the arc light." "But you'll be afraid to come back," reasoned Henrietta. "It's not modern, I know, but I still feel safer with an escort." 'At this direct hint John dropped his paper and rose hurriedly. "Come on," he said, "I'll get you there in a hurry." "Do come again," urged Nancy, who felt she could and should be nice to Henrietta. After all, her life was narrow.  "I'd love to. I'll be here all summer. Suppose we say every Wednesday evening? I'll enjoy old friends?old memories. Thanks, Nancy." As they went down the walk Nancy turned toward the library table. The box contained little frilled cups and crumpled tinsel, but not one piece of candy. She was clearing the table when John returned shortly after. He was whistling and radiant. "Helloo, Mrs. Ware," he bantered, "was your candy good?" "You and Henrietta," began Nancy. "Henrietta only," contradicted John. "TI ate only a chocolate nut. That girl is some whiz with sweets. Wonder she isn't sick. But she offered to teach me golf, so I won't get too heavy. She's keeping her looks, though, in spite of time. You'd better have your hair curled again to-morrow, hadn't you?" "Say," he called from the bedroom after the dropping of one shoe and before the falling of its mate, "Henrietta told me what's become of that little old Laffy Myers. He's got a job in the experiment lab. At the State U. He married, and had two pairs of twin boys. Then his wife died. Think I'd stay in the lab. Too!" finished John. Thereafter for ten strained weeks Nancy's life became one round of getting ready for Wednesday evenings and clearing up afterwards. Each week Henrietta came fresh and resplendent in a different gown. Each week she suggested new dishes and desserts ?all expensive in ingredients, time consuming in their preparation, and unsuited to the diet of growing babies. Somehow, Nancy got her laundry out of the way by Tuesday evening. She managed to have her hair marceled weekly. Each Wednesday evening found the Ware home clean and tidy, the table set with the best linen and china. As always in the old. School days, Henrietta had her way. At first John was interested in the prospective golf lessons. But when he learned the price of sticks and club dues, his enthusiasm waned. "Can't cut it this year," he negatived Henrietta's urgings, "got too many little shoes to buy." So Henrietta brought a checkerboard. While Nancy sang strained lullabyes to the teething Jean, Henrietta and John became absorbed in the intricacies of kings and double corners. Every evening John had to walk home with Henrietta. And Nancy, washing the delicate china with dangerous haste, yielded to the insidious encroachings of jealousy. John was staying a trifle later each Wednesday evening. He seemed less his buoyant self. He was impatient with the babies, reserved toward Nancy. On the tenth Wednesday night he was unusually late. The dishes were washed, three little sets of clothes were arranged for EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 79 the morning, and Nancy was setting the table for breakfast when he arrived. He looked elated, like a person who has finished a set, odious task. '"Where's the paper? Late, as it is, I'll read the headlines." He dropped his shoes in the living room and stretched out contentedly on the divan. The next week was an unhappy one for Nancy. Stung by jealousy she attached grave meanings to John's every look or action. Her mirror revealed swollen eyes and occasional tears sizzled on the iron as she hurried through this odious task. She dared not seek advice, urged by pride to keep her misgivings to herself. Good John, unsuspecting John, like clay in Henrietta's clever. Hands! Finally, after wakeful nights, Nancy devised a plan of defense. He sent the washing to the laundry. She hired Edna Watts, who wanted odd jobs, to tend the babies and clean the house. There- ~ upon Nancy went shopping. She choose a dress as elaborate as any Henrietta had flaunted, with slippers and hose to match. She had her hair trimmed, shampooed and marceled. When she left the shop, her finger nails were brilliantly polished. For once the terms of their budget were flagrantly disregarded. In her marketing she selected an elaborate meal. She would keep Edna to help serve, watch the babies, wash the dishes. She, Nancy, would stay in the parlor and be a member of the walking home party. She would learn, first hand, the important things Henrietta had to say to John.. Turning a corner hurriedly, she encountered a little man. A very diminutive man with skrewed-up face and doubly thick lens in his glasses. "Excuse me," he muttered apoligetically, "I did not see you!" Nancy's reply was a spontaneous laugh. "Why Laffy Myers, where did you come from? And what brings you to this old town again?" "Upon my word, Nancy!" The little man seemed glad to see again a familiar face. "You haven't changed a bit. I'm snatching a two-day vacation, and ran down to meet an old friend. Can't take longer. You remember that antidote I once told you I was perfecting? Well, it's almost perfected. I've tested it on several forms of animal life and it responds beautifully. Really, Nancy, I'm so engrossed. It will mean the saving?" "How about your babies?your children?" demanded Nancy, more concerned over the welfare of babies than the saving of, poisoned adults. "Oh--yes." The tone lost its enthusiasm. "That's what brings me to see this old friend.. They must be cared for." He made the excuse of haste and hurried on. Nancy, watch-  ing the retreating form, thought of the motherless boys whose father had no time for their care. Then her thoughts reverted again to her own problems, the memory of Laffy Myers fading with the cares of her own day. Five-thirty found Nancy ready and expectant. The flush of conflict made her cheeks becomingly pink! The new gown certainly made her look younger. The house was clean, the children spotless, the table perfect. Nancy sat down to await the coming of her husband and guest. At six-thirty John arrived with a confectionar's box under his arm. "Gosh, Nancy, but you look nice," he commented. Then reaching for the paper he stretched out full length on the divan and kicked off his shoes. Nancy sat puzzled. Why didn't he dress for dinner? Henrietta would be here any minute. There was a tiny round hole jn the toe of John's sock. If he didn't get it covered, Henrietta would comment on the duty of wives! John finished the paper and sat up inquiringly. Supper ready?" he grinned. "Why yes," answered Nancy. "Long ago. But you wouldn't eat without your guest, would you? This is Wednesday, you know." John stared incredulously, then understanding slowly dawned upon him. | Have you cooked dinner for Henrietta'? He demanded. "Do you mean to tell me you don't know?" "T know nothing except that Henrietta comes to dinner every Wednesday evening. I have tried to prepare a nice dinner for your friend?" "My friend," scoffed John. She never was my friend, except in her own mind. What you've had her here all summer for, beats me. Making me take her home nights when my feet ached and J wanted to read the paper. Last time I yawned in her face three times before she got through asking for advice and guidance." "Advice? What for?' gasped Nancy, half stupidly, half happily. "Bout old Laffy Myers. He wrote and asked her to marry him. Said he'd take a couple of days off from his beloved retorts. They were married at noon and took the afternoon train back to his antidotes and bottles and babies. Now I know she's gone, I've brought you another box of candy." Nancy's hands trembled as she took the proffered box. Before her mind marched the array of her groundless fears and suspicions. She felt nothing but compassion for Henrietta?playing to the galleries to the very last. How narrow her life had become! Now Nancy understood the superior mannerisms, the little EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING 81 criticisms. Having no home, no babies, Henrietta had pretended an indifference for all the little services and sacrifices that make up a life worth living. Poor Henrietta! She would no longer wear pale yellow silks, or serve every meal on Haviland china!. "What say," continued John, since you're all dolled up and Edna's here to tend the babies, that we take in a show?" Nancy smiled demurely. "Supper is ready," she answered. "Not luncheon or dinner, but plain, old fashioned supper."