MRS. EMELINE Y. NEBEKER
Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker
Ruth May Fox
"The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage." So sang the sweet singer of Israel, and well may the subject of this sketch cherish the song in her heart of hearts.
Emeline Young Nebeker was born in the Fourteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, September 27, 1875. Her father, Hyrum S. Young, was the son of the late President Brigham Young, of whom it is only necessary to mention his name to awaken in the minds of thousands of people memories of the marvelous accomplishments of that inspired leader. His mother, Emeline Free, was a charming woman of those early days.
Emeline's mother, Lucy Georgianne Fox, was the daughter of Jesse Williams Fox and Eliza Jerusha Gibbs. All the hardships, persecutions, and occasional romance of pioneer times are recalled with the names of these two people. Jesse Williams Fox is remembered as the first general surveyor of the territory of Utah and also as being one of the kindest and most unselfish of men, who might have made himself wealthy because of his opportunities to acquire choice tracts of land; but these he passed by saying: "Let poor men have it." In the veins of his wife, Eliza Jerusha Gibbs, Emeline's grandmother, ran the blood of the Carter family prominent in early church history. Her family, consisting of three sisters and a brother, were orphaned when quite young. They lived in Montrose and frequently crossed the great Mississippi to and fro between that town and Nauvoo, during those troublous times. The brother, Gideon Carter Gibbs, was in the battle at Far West when the Saints were ordered to stack their arms and deed away their property to the enemy. Eliza Jerusha, a girl of eighteen, crossed the plains i in 1848 in the same company with Jesse Williams Fox, who, by the way, had been her school teacher. Friendship ripened into love, so the two decided to marry while on their journey. They had their first wedding supper sitting on an ox yoke,, and spent their honeymoon wading streams, crossing deserts, and climbing mountains to an unknown land. Emeline's father, Hyrum S. Young, who for a long time was cashier of the Deseret National Bank, was a loyal son, a devoted husband, and an indulgent father, a gentleman in every  sense of the word. Like her mother before her, Lucy Georgianne Fox was a gentle, kind, and hospitable woman, making friends of every one, especially the needy. She was one of the first women associated with the kindergarten movement in Utah, and became very active in that organization, holding meetings in her own home and assisting in organizing kindergarten groups. For many years she was counselor in the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society when Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams was president of that stake, holding that position when she passed away to a more beautiful sphere of action. Emeline was graduated from the normal school of the University of Utah in 1895 and taught four and one-half years in the public schools of Salt Lake City. She was also active in Sunday School work. In her choice of husband she was fortunate in joining hands with another notable pioneer family. Walter D., her husband, is the son of George Nebeker and Maria Dillworth. In the early 60's Mr. Nebeker was called to preside over the Hawaiian Mission and also to start the sugar industry in that then far-away land. His wife, Maria Dillworth went with him and taught school, having a group of native children for her pupils. An interesting incident is recalled in connection with this trip. Mr. And Mrs. Nebeker had both crossed the plains by ox teams; now they must journey to Sacramento in the same slow way, thus crossing the con- - tinent in that weary, dreary mode of travel. They rode the great Pacific on a sailing vessel. But lo, what a change! Five years later when returning to Salt Lake City they traveled from San Francisco with what appeared to them to be the speed of the lightning. The Great High Way had been completed. This visit, however, did not terminate Mr. Nebeker's mission. He returned to the Islands, remaining four years longer, making a mission of nine years in all. Since her marriage, as before, Emeline has been active in church organizations, having worked in the Primary, Mutual, and Relief Society. She has been ward president of each of these associations, also a stake officer in the Primary Association. At this writing she is president of the Twelfth-Thirteenth Ward Relief Society. Emeline is able to trace her lineage on both sides to that eventful war which won American independence; consequently she is a member of the Utah State Society of the Daughters of the Revolution, and she has held the position of regent in that Institution. Civic work also has claimed her interest, and she is now a director on the Community Chest Board. Emeline is the proud mother of two children, a son and a daughter. Both are attending school, the daughter in Junior High MRS. EMELINE Y, NEBEKER' 63 and the son majoring in history at the University of Utah. She has a lovely home and is a real home-maker, believing absolutely that home happiness is the greatest factor in a successful life. What more need be said? Up to the present she has filled her mission nobly. Her natural abilities, her activities, and the experience she has gained therefrom make her eminently fitted for the great work to which she has been called as a member on the General Board of the National Woman's Relief Society. ?