[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Nevadas | Author: Luce]
[Nevada's Valley of Fire by Willard Luce]
Nevada's  Valley  of  Fire 
Wilhid  Luce 
Willard  Luce 
ELEPHANT   ROCK   IN  THE  VALLEY  OF   FIRE,   NEVADA 
POLITICALLY,  Nevada's  Valley 
of  Fire  has  a  checkered  history. 
At  one  time  it  was  up  for  consider- 
ation as  a  national  monument. 
When  this  was  dropped,  Nevada 
itself  took  it  over  as  a  State  Park. 
Finally,  the  State  withdrew  its  sup- 
port, and  the  Valley  is  now  under 
the  Department  of  the  Interior, 
Bureau  of  Land  Management.  It  is 
being  considered  as  an  addition  to 
Page  236 
the  Lake  Mead  Recreation  Area, 
and  as  such  would  be  placed  under 
the  supervision  of  the  National 
Parks  Service. 
But,  regardless  of  the  Valley  of 
Fire's  political  affiliations,  it  is  still 
a  mighty  interesting  place  to  visit. 
Nevada  Highway  40  is  only  twenty- 
three  miles  long,  running  from  the 
Lake  Mead  Recreation  Area  to 
Crystal,  on  U.  S.  Highway  91  and

NEVADA'S  VALLEY  OF  FIRE 
237 
93.  Much  of  this  twenty-three 
miles  is  through  the  jumbled  red 
ledges  of  the  Valley  of  Fire. 
Extending  the  borders  of  the 
Recreation  Area  would  place  the 
Valley  of  Fire  under  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  the  park  rangers  who  could 
help  protect  it  from  vandals  who 
are  now  robbing  it  of  its  petrified 
trees,  smashing  and  shooting  its 
signs,  and  generally  marring  its 
natural  beauty. 
The  Valley  receives  its  name  from 
the  jumbled  strips  of  red  sandstone 
ledges  which  lie  like  long,  red  welts 
across  the  drab  Nevada  landscape. 
Brilliant  at  any  time,  these  ledges, 
two  hundred  to  eight  hundred  feet 
high,  become  flaming  red  at  sunset. 
The  tops  of  the  ledges  are  jagged 
and  broken,  making  the  ledges  ap- 
pear even  more  like  falls  of  flame. 
Within  the  Valley  are  numerous 
stone  formations,  including  two 
elephant  rocks.  Fossils  of  marine 
reptiles  and  partial  skeletons  of 
camels  have  been  found.  Side  roads 
lead  to  petrified  trees  and  petro- 
glyphs. 
Picnicking  areas,  constructed  by 
the  State  of  Nevada,  are  still  fairly 
intact;  but  be  sure  to  bring  your 
own  water.  Near  the  eastern 
boundary  of  the  Valley  is  the  grave, 
marked  by  a  large  headstone,  of  a 
soldier  who  didn't.  His  death  hap- 
pened a  long  time  back,  when  the 
road  was  part  of  the  old  Mormon 
Trail  to  Las  Vegas  and  Southern 
California.  He  died  there  in  the 
shadow  of  his  wagon,  only  a  few 
miles  from  the  Muddy  River  and 
less  than  half  a  mile  from  a  spring 
up  in  the  rugged  sandstone  ledges. 
Water,  like  gold,  is  where  you  find 
it  there  in  the  desert. 
[JUoubie   {Beauty 
Lena  Woodbury 
IN  April^  Los  Robles  is  the  most  beautiful  street  in  Pasadena.  It  is  lined  on  either 
side  with  the  camphor  tree,  a  well-branched  evergreen  with  shining  leaves.  The 
trunk  and  branches  are  dark  brown,  almost  black,  a  striking  background  for  the  glisten- 
ing foliage.  In  April  the  old  leaves  turn  red  and  yellow  and  drop  in  great  profusion 
as  the  new  growth  appears.  The  sidewalks  are  covered,  the  street  is  covered,  the  gut- 
ters are  piled  high. 
Is  it  Los  Robles  I  love  or  is  it  memories  of  such  scenes  of  my  childhood?  I  am 
kicking  through  the  leaves  on  my  way  to  school,  those  great  piles  of  red  and  gold  and 
brown  the  rich  treasures  that  the  trees  almost  overnight  have  cast  at  my  feet.  I  hear 
the  crackle  of  them  as  I  scuffle  along.  I  see  them  flying  before  me  m  the  wmd.  All 
this  flash  of  color  and  movement  is  mine  to  catch  and  to  remember. 
I  see  my  dearest  older  sister,  even  then  a  mother  with  several  children,  coming  to 
visit  mv  mother.     Seeing  the  lawn  so  covered  with  leaves,  she  kicks  her  feet  joyously, 
flings  herself  down  into  the  leaves,  rolls  delightedly  down  the  slope.    What  freedom 
what  joy'    At  the  bottom  of  the  lawn  she  rolls^  right  into  the  small  irrigation  ditch  full 
of  water  which  had  been  hidden  by  the  carpet  of  leaf  color. 
As  T  drive  up  Los  Robles  in  April  I  laugh.  The  laugh  is  for  an  autumn  of  long 
aeo  A  Utah  autumn.  For  those  who  are  no  longer  children,  beauty  is  always  double. 
The  beauty  of  today,  and  just  as  immediate,  the  beauty  of  yesterday,  are  tied  inseparably 
together  by  the  ribbon  of  memory.

(bixti[    ijears  KyLgo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  April  i,  and  April  15,  1894 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
AN  ETCHING:  It  was  a  bright,  clear  morning  in  the  Wasatch  Range.  The 
lofty,  alpine  valley  near  the  head  of  the  canyon,  high  up  among  the  peaks,  lay  gleaming 
in  the  morning  sun.  White  stemmed  quaking  aspens  stood  out  in  sharp  relief  against 
a  background  of  dark  pines.  Their  pale  green  leaves,  shot  through  with  golden  sun- 
beams, trembled  lightly  in  the  gentle  breeze  ....  Above  and  beyond  the  fringe  of 
trees  stretched  an  unbroken  forest,  and  still  beyond,  yet  in  the  near  distance,  rose  rocky 
cliffs  and  snowy  summits,  outlined  in  grey  and  white  against  the  deep  blue  sky  .... 
—Anna  D.  Thrall 
SCHOOL  OF  OBSTETRICS  AND  NURSING:  Mrs.  Lizzie  H.  Shipp,  professor 
and  practical  teacher  of  obstetrics,  will  open  a  school  of  obstetrics  in  Salt  Lake  City 
the  first  Monday  in  May.  A  half  yearly  course  will  be  taught  for  the  unprecedented 
low  terms  of  ten  dollars. 
• — Selected 
WHEN  THE  SUMMER  COMES  AGAIN 
There  will  be  glad  rejoicing 
When  the  summer  comes  again. 
When  the  rivers  break  their  fetters 
And  the  rills  throw  off  their  chains  .... 
All  living  things  as  in  one  voice, 
Will  unite  in  glad  acclaim  .... 
The  vestments  of  glad  adorning, 
Will  be  worn  through  earth's  domain  .... 
All  its  forces  northward  streaming 
When  the  summer  comes  again. 
— L.  M.  Hewlings 
WOMAN  FARMER:  Mrs.  Virginia  C.  Meredith  of  Cambridge  City,  Indiana, 
proprietor  of  one  of  the  finest  Shorthorn  herds  in  the  country  ....  believes  there  is 
no  spot  equal  to  a  farm  for  at  once  furnishing  a  competence  and  enabling  a  woman  to 
establish  a  beautiful  home  and  bring  up  her  children  nobly. 
— Selected. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  SANPETE:  The  Relief  Society  Con- 
ference of  the  Sanpete  Stake  of  Zion  convened  in  the  Spring  City  Meeting  House, 
December  16th.  President  M.  A.  P.  Hyde  presiding.  The  branches  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety of  Fayette,  Gunnison,  Sterling,  Moroni,  Chester,  Mt.  Pleasant,  Wales,  Spring  City 
and  Ephraim  represented.  Counselor  Sarah  Peterson  was  pleased  with  the  humble 
spirit  manifested.  Spoke  at  some  length  on  the  storing  of  grain  and  culture  of  silk. 
President  Canute  Peterson  advised  the  sisters  to  gather  wheat  for  it  will  be  needed  .... 
— Mary  A.  F.  Hansen,  Sec. 
Page  238