[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Poem | Title: It Must | Author: Cameron]
["It Must Be Spring," by Hilda V. Cameron]
enced  from  my  participation  in  that  must  be  together,  for  neither  can 
work,  because  I  love  music,  and  up  attain  exaltation  without  the  other, 
to  that  time  had  had  very  little  op-  It  was  my  earnest  prayer  that  some

PARTICIPATION  IN  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
2^1 
day  he  would  see  the  Hght  as  I  had 
already  done  and  accept  the  gospel. 
r\AVID'S  eighth  birthday  came 
and  went,  and  we  did  nothing, 
and  by  the  time  he  was  eight  and 
one  half  I  began  to  wonder  if  my 
hopes  were  in  vain,  but  I  wouldn't 
give  up,  because  something  told  me 
that  everything  would  turn  out  all 
right.  Then  about  two  months  be- 
fore David's  ninth  birthday,  when 
I  asked  my  husband  what  he 
thought  about  it,  he  said,  *'If  that 
is  what  you  want,  then  that  is  what 
I  want.    I,  too,  am  ready." 
The  following  day— the  day  of 
our  confirmation— it  all  seemed  like 
a  dream  that  we  were  actually  par- 
taking of  the  sacrament,  and  as  we 
took  it  we  felt  the  presence  of  the 
spirit  of  the  Lord  as  we  had  never 
felt  it  before.  Until  this  day  we 
had   been   merely  existing.     From 
that  day  on,  we  really  began  to  live. 
Now  we  are  able  to  participate  in 
all  activities  of  the  Church  just  like 
the  other  members,  and  thus  our 
service  to  the  Lord  is  not  limited. 
But  we  realized  the  height  of 
happiness  had  not  yet  been  reached 
at  this  point.  We  learned  that  in 
order  to  have  this  joy  in  the  world 
to  come,  we  must  go  to  the  house 
of  the  Lord  and  be  sealed  to  each 
other.  Meanwhile  Duane  and  Paul 
had  joined  our  family,  so  two  years 
after  the  baptism,  the  five  of  us 
went  to  the  Salt  Lake  temple  and 
were  sealed  to  each  other  for  time 
and  for  all  eternity,  and  now  we 
have  little  Diane,  born  under  the 
true  and  everlasting  covenant.  We 
have  found  true  joy.  I  need  ask 
for  no  more.  All  this  spiritual 
wealth  was  brought  to  us  through 
the  little  service  rendered  by  the 
two  Relief  Society  sisters. 
cyulips  in  the   Vi/ind 
Evelyn  F/eldsted 
Bending  forward  in  a  gale,  they  seem 
To  all  be  going  somewhere  far  away, 
But,  in  the  changing  evening  wind,  they  turn 
And  seem  to  hurry  back  while  it  is  day. 
Morning  finds  them  standing  straight  and  tall, 
A  garden  study  in  tranquihty. 
Undaunted  by  the  wind  and  lingering  frost, 
They  raise  their  regal  heads  triumphantly. 
^t    Tllast   (Be  Spring 
Hild^  V.  Cameron 
It  must  be  spring, 
For  my  honeysuckle  vine 
Is  splotched  with  pastel  beauty 
Like  a  lovely  valentine. 
And  at  dawn  this  morning 
I  heard  a  robin  sing; 
Though  chilly  winds  torment  me, 
I  know  it  must  be  spring. 
Sunshine  and  U\ ain 
Ruth  K.  Kent 
It  takes  a  lot  of  clouds 
To  make  it  rain  all  day; 
It  takes  a  lot  of  sun 
To  drive  the  clouds  away; 
It  takes  a  lot  of  frowns 
To  make  a  child  look  sad, 
But  only  one  big  smile 
To  make  a  child  feel  glad.

"Within  Our  Reach" 
Donna  Day 
THE  boy,  emerging  from  the  ture  lay  down  the  long,  straight 
flow  of  sleep,  lay  quietly  in  autumn  road, 
his  bed  on  the  back  porch.  The  wheels  of  the  car  stirred  and 
With  intense  loneliness,  he  con-  rattled  the  brown  leaves,  and 
templated  the  tremendous  and  mov-  they  scattered  down  the  road  be- 
ing quietness  of  awakening.  Could  hind  them  as  noisily  as  rustlers  on 
one  awaken  and  continue  dream-  a  midnight  ride.  A  sagebrush  plain 
ing?  The  slow  consciousness  of  his  appeared  as  the  road  ran  level  and 
surroundings  took  shape  out  of  unbroken  to  the  base  of  the  distant 
shadow.  That  first  light  brought  mountain.  Then  the  land  swept 
the  sudden  realization  that  tomor-  upward  to  the  lift  of  the  crater's 
row  they  would  go  to  the  crater.  No,  shoulder.  The  crater  was  not  as  big 
not  tomorrow.  Today/  Lifting  as  the  boy  had  anticipated, 
himself  abruptly,  he  started  to  The  mother  parked  the  car  at 
climb  out  of  bed.  There  were  so  the  base  of  the  mountain,  and  the 
many  wonderful  things  to  see  and  two  started  the  climb  up  the  steep 
think  about.  side.    It  was  a  desolate  slope,  warm 
Suddenly  his  mother  stood  in  the  and     dusty.     Coarse     cinder     ash 
kitchen   doorway   looking   upward,  sucked  at  their  feet.  The  pea-sized 
Out  of  the  glowing  east,  spears  of  lava    fragments    were    pierced    by 
sunlight  illuminated  her  face  and  scrub  brush  and  rough  salt  grasses, 
put  a  glitter  in  her  pale  hair.    She  Their  breath  came  in  short  gasps, 
shook  out  her  apron  as  if  it  were  with  the  sensation  that  the  world 
sun  crumbs  she  was  scattering.  was  slipping  back  while  they  were 
Quickly  the  boy  was  out  of  bed  standing  still.     But,   at  last,   they 
to  inquire  fervently  if  his  mother  reached  the  first  level,  where  an  old 
remembered  the  promised  visit  to  road   wound    around    through   the 
the  crater.  red  and.  gray  rocks.  The  boy  and 
Could  she  forget  when  a  pair  of  his  mother  sat  down  to  rest.  It  was 
wide,  inquiring  eyes  looked  at  her?  changed  air  they  breathed,  ancient 
The  boy  dressed  quickly  in  the  and  aromatic, 
circle  of  the  warmth  made  by  the  Shortly  the   boy   stood   up   and 
kitchen   range.     The  bacon   sput-  studied  the  magic-shaped  cone  that 
tered  and  the  eggs  bounced  in  the  towered    above    them.    The    crest 
bubbling  water.  seemed  to  have  risen  a  little  toward 
After  breakfast  he  carried  their  the  sky  like  an  elevated,  dancing 
lunch  to  the  car.    When,  at  last,  platform.  The  boy  gazed  up  with 
he  was  in  the  car,  he  could  not  sit  an  awe  that  is  only  for  those  who 
still.     His   heart   knew   a   strange  are  young.     The  whole  marvelous
