[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 16 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes]
Notes TO THE FIELD A Centenary of Relief Society Out of Print Centenary of Relief Society was published for the one hundredth anniversary of Relief Society in 1942 and contains much valuable historical information concerning the activities of the society during its first one hundred years. It is now out of print, and the general board does not contemplate reprinting it, so we suggest that each organization, stake and ward, preserve one copy for reference. 'Those stakes or wards which already have them in their libraries should see to it that they are properly bound to preserve them and that the name of the organizaion is either printed on the cover or written on the flyleaf on the inside, so as to indicate clearly that it is the property of the society. 'Those organizations which do not already have a copy in their libraries should try to obtain one from someone in their stake or ward and have it bound. We recommend this same plan be followed in the missions. We suggest that these books be bound in one of the new synthetic materials, such as fabricoid, as this binding is considered more durable than leather. We have arranged with the Desert News Press, Salt Lake City, to bind the Centenaries in blue fabricoid with a 24-carat gold seal and lettering on it, according to our specifications, so that they may all be bound alike, and stamp the name of the society on the cover in gold for $2.25 per copy postpaid. A month to six weeks should be allowed for binding the books which should be sent direct to the Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. We recommend that stakes make this an early project so that every organization may preserve a copy of the Centenary. Book of lTlormon Reading Project REPORT forms on The Book of Mormon reading project will be sent to stake Relief Society presidents in May 1954, and should be returned not later than July 15, 1954. The general board wishes to encourage all sisters to do the reading of The Book of Mormon for this year, which includes from the Book of Jacob through the 8th chapter of Alma. In order for a sister to receive credit, the reading must have been done during the year in which the lessons have been studied in Relief Society.