[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Fiction | Title: SERIAL | Author: Bailey]
[SERIAL The Deeper Melody — Chapter 7 by Alice Morrey Bailey]
for  the  very  good  writing  in  her  serial 
'The  Deeper  Melody"  (October  1953- 
May  1954),  3"^  ^^^^  Dorothy  Clapp  Rob- 
inson for  the  beautifully  worked  out  story 
"One  Wild  Rose,"  the  prize-winning 
story  in  the  Relief  Society  Short  Story 
Contest  (published  in  January  1954). 
The  prize-winning  poems  were  also  worth- 
while and  lovely.  Thank  you  for  a  whole- 
some, high-quality  Magazine. 
— Katherine  F.  Larsen 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
I  enjoyed  the  winging  buoyancy  of  the 
first  prize  poem  "Wings  Over  the  West" 
in  the  January  1954  issue  of  the  Magazine, 
by  Lizabeth  Wall  Madsen. 
— Ida  Isaacson 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Being  among  the  first  Relief  Society 
members  to  subscribe  for  the  Magazine, 
I  enjoy  everything  in  it.  It  has  always 
been  an  inspiration  to  me.  I  remember 
the  Woman's  Exponent.  We  had  it  in 
our  home.  Today  it  thrills  me  to  read 
of  the  many  women  in  foreign  countries 
and  in  the  isles  of  the  sea — how  they 
wait  and  long  for  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  to  reach  them. 
Here  are  a  few  lines  I  wrote  in  honor 
of  the  visiting  teachers: 
At  the  very  second  meeting 
The  president-elect  did  call 
Sixteen  women  as  a  Necessity  Committee 
To  visit  the  sick,  the  poor,  and  all. 
Blessed  were  the  visiting  teachers 
Of  that  time  so  long  ago  .... 
Blessed  be  the  visiting  teachers  of  today — 
Their  calling  may  not  be  necessity, 
But  their  duty  is  supreme. 
— Anna  S.  D.  Johnson 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
I  always  enjoy  our  wonderful  Magazine, 
The  fiction  is  always  so  in  keeping  with 
the  other  contents  of  the  Magazine  .  .  . 
I  think  Sister  Mary  Ek  Knowles  (Feb- 
ruary 1954,  page  87)  expressed  such  a 
beautiful  thought  in  her  little  sketch — 
''Writing  is  my  hobby,  my  husband  and 
children  my  profession."  I  would  like  to 
write  and  ask  her  just  how — just  when — 
she  finds  time  for  writing,  before  her  chil- 
dren get  up  in  the  morning  or  before  they 
are  tucked  in  at  night?  I  have  two  boys, 
ages  six  and  two  .  .  .  but  it  seems  they 
keep  me  on  the  go  every  waking  moment. 
— Florence  D.  Anderson 
Henderson,  Nevada 
I  do  enjoy  the  Magazine  so  much  and 
am  glad  that  you  give  so  much  space  to 
helpful  articles  and  to  poetry.  I  am  a 
member  of  Pierian  Club  of  the  Chaparrel 
Poets  of  California,  and  other  members  of 
the  group  also  enjoy  the  Magazine. 
— Mrs.  Maude  Rubin 
Santa  Ana,  California 
Page  280