[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Fiction | Title: TV]
[TV Viewers — Down in Front by Eloise Strinz 265]

Trace name on egg first. Apply paste over written name with a toothpick to hold twist in place. Trim edges from a paper doily, paste in place, allowing it to flare slightly. Paste braid over inside edge of doily. 3. FLOWERS IN A FRAME: Cover the egg with orchid-colored crepe paper and decorate it with a braid of pink and deep rose crepe paper. Make rosebuds by cutting two-inch wide strips of crepe paper across the grain in several shades (light pink, dark pink, ted, yellow). Unfold a strip and wind it on itself to make a tiny roll about % inch thick, then cut off remaining length of crepe strip and paste another color to the roll. Roll this second strip around first roll to make a % inch thick strip. Repeat process with third color to make a three-colored rose. Paste end of last strip down to roll, and paste "rosebuds" on egg, using a few leaves cut from green paper to complete the bouquet. 4. QUIGLEY THE QUACK: Wrap two eggs with canary yellow crepe paper. Cut two bill patterns from mat stock and cover mith amber athe paper. Paste. To narrow end of one egg. Cut eyes from colored writing paper (blue), and for the center of the eye, cut a small square of black paper. Paste eyes on sides of egg. Paste the "egg head" on top of another paper-covered egg towards the wide end. Wind around the neck a strip of yellow crepe paper tie ribbon and make a bow. Then paste the completed Quigley to mat stock covered with amber crepe paper. <> e (Directions for Gardening Maude Rubin One principle of landscaping, As all good gardeners know, Is planting taller plants in back In front plant something low. For the back, I chose chrysanthemums You know how tall they grow— In front, placed English daisies As something sweet and low. I watered them; I studied books On gardening in all phases. My daisy flowers are big as mums— My mums look just like daisies! First Bloom Desert Flowers Sudie Stuart Hager Vesta N. Lukei In springtime every woman knows The brief. (No man could ever guess) Bright jewels of spring The way a half-grown peach tree feels Are spilled in amethyst, In her first pink party dress! And topaz drifts across the gold Of sand. MRS. ROSE PASKETT THOMPSON AND SOME OF HER BEAUTIFUL HANDWORK Handwork Hobbies Bring Happiness Rose Paskett Cooke Thompson, Corinne, Utah, has made hundreds of rugs, doilies, tablecloths, and decorative items. Mrs. Thompson, sixty-two, has made about five hundred braided rugs, six hundred pieces of miscellaneous crocheting, crocheted edges on more than one hundred fifty handkerchiefs.