[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Fiction | Title: Gardening McCullou]
[Gardening for the Home Freezer by C. W. McCullough]
(gardening  for  the  aiome  freezer 
C.  W.  McCuIIough 
To  enjoy  a  garden,  put  on  a  wide  hat  and  gloves,  hold  a  little  trowel  in  one  hand, 
and  tell  the  man  where  to  dig. 
npHE  above  plan  has  a  legion  of  either  gardening  or  home  freezing, 
devotees,  but  this  article  is  not  These  are  widely  discussed  in  seed 
dedicated  to  those  who  practice  catalogues,  government  bulletins, 
their  backyard  agriculture  vicarious-  and  magazine  articles  that  you 
ly.  Rather  it  is  directed  to  those  probably  have  in  your  home.  Others 
who  prefer  the  fruits  of  their  own  are  available  at  your  library  or 
labors;  those  who  find  the  spring  through  contact  with  your  county 
catalogue  of  the  seedsmen  the  most  agent,  your  state  agricultural  col- 
fascinating  document  in  print;  those  lege,  or  state  department  of  agri- 
who  react  instinctively  to  the  chal-  culture  and  home  economics, 
lenge  of  a  freshly  plowed  or  spaded  A  garden  should  be  carefully 
plot  of  ground.  planned,    not   only   to    insure    the 
Home  gardening,  probably  almost  planting  of  varieties  that  do  well  in 
as  old  as  man,  has  experienced  the  your  particular  climate  and  altitude, 
greatest  uplift  in  its  history  during  but  of  equal  importance,  to  insure 
the  last  few  years  with  the  discovery  that  what  you  raise  will  find  a  ready 
of  the  means  of  preserving  food-  market  on  your  table.  A  great  mis- 
stuffs  by  quick  freezing.  When  man  take  of  tyro-gardeners  is  the  grow- 
perfected  this  new  means  of  put-  ing  of  vegetables  the  family  do  not 
ting  Jack  Frost  to  work,  more  was  care  for.  Consider  the  turnip!  If 
accomplished  than  just  to  introduce  turnips  carry  a  low  popularity  rat- 
an  ingenious  kitchen  appliance.  Bar-  ing  with  your  family,  plant  them 
riers  to  the  seasons  were  broken  sparingly,  or  better,  not  at  all.  Use 
down,  barriers  between  the  menus  the  space  for  crops  the  youngsters 
of  the  frigid,  temperate,  and  tropic-  like,  and,  if  you  must,  get  your 
al  zones— and  in  our  little  backyard  turnips  downtown  at  lunch, 
gardens— the  barriers  between  sur-  Another  mistake  is  over  planting, 
plus  wastes  and  economic  usage,  the  temptation  to  use  up  that  pack- 
The  home  freezer  has  given  ''the  age  of  seed.  If  your  garden  must 
man  with  the  hoe"  a  new  incentive  be  laid  out  in  long  rows,  it  is  often 
and  value.  wise  to  divide  these  rows  in  half 
Thanks  to  the  home  freezer,  the  with  stakes,  and  limit  plantings  of 
products  of  a  garden  that  could  be  a  variety  to  a  half  row. 
enjoyed  only  for  a  brief  season,  can 
now  be  prisoned  in  an  icy  package  JN  planning  a  garden  for  freezing 
and  kept  practically  garden   fresh  the  products,  one  must  give  first 
throughout  the  year.  place  to  those  that  freeze  well  and 
No  attempt  will  be  made  to  cov-  are  old  standbys:  corn,  peas,  beans, 
er  the  entire  field  of  desirable  re-  beets,  carrots.  Then  you  can  make 
gional  practices  or  the  pitfalls  of  your  choice  from  a  long  list  that  in- 
Page  253