[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Join | Author: Munsell]
[Join the Crusade Against Cancer by Sandra Munsell]
228 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1954 
heavy  with  sadness.  "But  every 
mother  knows  that  someday  her 
children  will  leave  the  home,  and 
even  while  her  heart  cries  out 
against  their  leaving,  she  knows 
that  it  is  the  way  of  life.  A  thing 
she  must  face,  only  war  makes  it 
much  worse."  Her  eyes  met  Bev- 
erly's. '*I  hope  you  never  have  to 
send  a  son  to  war." 
"That's  what  I  mean."  Beverly's 
voice  was  almost  a  whisper.  "Giving 
birth  to  my  baby  doesn't  seem  such 
a  problem  anymore.  It's  after  they 
get  here.  I  don't  know  if  ...  I 
don't  know  if  I  have  what  it  takes 
to  be  a  mother." 
Maureen  let  her  body  relax  into 
the  kitchen  chair  and  felt  part  of 
a  heavy  burden  slip  from  her 
shoulders.  Beverly  would  be  all 
right.  She  had  stopped  thinking  of 
herself  and  was  becoming  con- 
cerned with  the  real  job  ahead  of 
her.  She  had  stopped  worrying 
about  the  birth  and  was  feeling  her 
first  responsibility  toward  the  new 
life  that  would  be  put  in  her  hands 
soon,  slowly  understanding  that 
this  new  life  would  take  all  the  skill 
and  love  and  courage  she  could 
summon. 
The  older  woman  smiled  into  the 
young  girl's  eyes.  "When  the  time 
comes  .  .  .  you'll  find  you  have 
what  it  takes,"  she  said. 
^oin  the  L^rusade  K/Lgainst   L^ancer 
Sandra  Munsell 
Supervisor,  Magazine  Advertising  Services 
Another  year  has  sped  by.  Another  year  has  taken  its  toll  of  cancer 
victims.  In  1953  the  number  of  cancer  deaths  in  the  United  States  was 
approximately  227,000— one  every  two  and  one-third  minutes. 
Yet,  today,  in  the  battle  against  one  of  our  strongest  and  crudest 
enemies— cancer— there  are  splendid  indications  that  our  hope  and  faith 
are  not  misguided;  that  the  long  winter  of  despair  is  no  longer  quite  so 
cold  nor  quite  so  dark. 
In  April,  designated  Cancer-Control  Month  by  Presidential  proclama- 
tion, the  American  Cancer  Society  will  launch  its  annual  Cancer  Crusade. 
To  carry  on  its  year-around,  three-pronged  attack  on  this  dread  disease,  in  re- 
search, education,  and  service  to  cancer  patients,  the  American  Cancer  So- 
ciety hopes  to  raise  at  least  $35,000,000  through  contributions. 
Tens  of  thousands  are  living  happily  this  springtime— and  will  live 
through  many  springtimes  yet  to  come— because  they  were  saved  last  year 
from  cancer.  Other  tens  of  thousands  could  have  been  saved  by  today's 
knowledge,  if  only  they  had  been  treated  in  time.  Why  weren't  they  treat- 
ed in  time? 
Because  of  all  of  us.  We  haven't  worked  hard  enough  at  cancer  edu- 
cation and  service  to  others.  And  we  still  haven't  given  enough  money 
for  training  physicians,  for  clinics,  and  for  research.  More  help  is  needed, 
much  more!  Let  us  assure  continued  progress  by  joining  the  Cancer 
Crusade.