[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Smith]
"But every the kitchen chair and felt part of mother knows that someday her a heavy burden slip from her children will leave the home, and _ shoulders. Beverly would be all even while her heart cries out right. She had stopped thinking of against their leaving, she knows herself and was becoming conthat it is the way of life. A thing cerned with the real job ahead of she must face, only war makes it her. She had stopped worrying much worse." Her eyes met Bevabout the birth and was feeling her erly's. "I hope you never have to first responsibility toward the new send a son to war." life that would be put in her hands "That's what I mean." Beverly's soon, slowly understanding that voice was almost a whisper. "Giving _ this new life would take all the skill birth to my baby doesn't seem such and love and courage she could a problem anymore. It's after they summon. Get here. I don't know if I The older woman smiled into the don't know if I have what it takes young girl's eyes. "When the time to be a mother." comes... You'll find you have Maureen let her body relax into what it takes," she said. ~_-— Yoin the Crusade Against Cancer Sandra Munsell Supervisor, Magazine Advertising Services Another year has sped by. Another year has taken its toll of cancer victims. In 1953 the number of cancer deaths in the United States was approximately 227,000—one every two and one-third minutes. Yet, today, in the battle against one of our strongest and cruelest enemies—cancer—there are splendid indications that our hope and faith are not misguided; that the long winter of despair is no longer quite so cold nor quite so dark. In April, designated Cancer-Control Month by Presidential proclamation, the American Cancer Society will launch its annual Cancer Crusade. To carry on its year-around, three-pronged attack on this dread disease, in research, education, and service to cancer patients, the American Cancer Society hopes to raise at least $35,000,000 through contributions. Tens of thousands are living happily this springtime—and will live through many springtimes yet to come—because they were saved last year from cancer. Other tens of thousands could have been saved by today's knowledge, if only they had been treated in time. Why weren't they treated in time? Because of all of us. We haven't worked hard enough at cancer education and service to others. And we still haven't given enough money for training physicians, for clinics, and for research. More help is needed, much more! Let us assure continued progress by joining the Cancer Crusade. Second Best Blanche Sutherland and lowered the fire under the skillet before lifting a flushed cheek for Don's homecoming kiss. There were tired lines around her mouth, and a strand of fair hair had escaped its pin. "Dinner's late," she said, hurriedly putting plates and silver on the table in the breakfast nook. "Mr. Martin brought in some extra contracts to be typed—in triplicate, too, mind you, and at five-thirty." "Well, I'm late, too," Don consoled. "That's what comes of having to ride with Carson. He's always behind time." "I wish we had two cars," Kay interjected impatiently, "or you would pick up the baby, and I'd come home by bus. No—that wouldn't do. I'd be later than ever. Oh, well, wash Bobby's hands and put him in his chair, will you, Don? And start him on his dinner. He's so hungry and tired. Mrs. Meredith was just about to feed him when I finally got there." Don laid an envelope beside his own plate silently and picked up Bobby from the floor, swinging him to his broad shoulder. "Hi, old man," he said, his broad face tender, "how about a washup and then that egg, I see there?" Bobby rubbed his eyes with a small, grubby hand. "Egg," he demanded, "egg." Kay fluffed the potatoes, stirred gravy, and was sliding a pan of rolls from the oven when Don and Bobby returned, sleek and smiling. "That oven!" she ejaculated. "These rolls are too brown." K*= Webster turned the chops Don sniffed appreciatively at the warm odors emanating from the steaming utensils. "I like 'em brown. And chops! Who wants steak when chops are half the price?" He levelled Bobby into his chair and gave him his spoon. "Did you see what I brought home, honey?" he asked eagerly. Kay shook her head. "Dinner's ready," she said. Don sat down, opened the envelope, and passed the contents over, then straightened back, a smile lighting the broad planes of his face. "How's that?" he inquired. Kay dropped her eyes to the paper, then, "The car," she exclaimed. "In full, Dan, in full? Well, that's off our shoulders." "Yep. Our car at last, and still in good shape. And now." He grinned at her. Kay poured milk into Bobby's cup. "And now. What do you mean—and now?" Don took an appreciative bite of his chop. "And now, you can quit working, honey. See?" "Quit!" Kay remonstrated. "The car's paid for, yes, but there's still the house." "T can take care of that. The fifty dollar raise I got, you know." "But that's not all, Don," Kay broke in, her blue eyes impatient. "The furniture is all secondhand stuff, as you know. The stove and refrigerator are both on the ragged edge. And then, I want one of these automatic washers—instead of spending half my evenings washing and drying clothes." Kay stopped for breath. Page 229 230 "But if you weren't working, you wouldn't need to wash evenings, honey," he objected. "We'll get all those things in time. Be reasonable, won't you?" K4* laid down her fork patiently. "But Don, Bobby's all right. Mrs. Meredith is wonderful with children, better than I would be. Bobby has playmates there, all about his own age. He'd be lonesome here all alone." "He'd get acquainted with his father and mother,' Don argued shortly. "The way it is now, we rush him to Mrs. Meredith's so early he can't even have breakfast here. Then, at night, after he's had his dinner, he's tired and goes to bed. That's no way for a family to live." Kay's lips trembled. She spooned baby food onto Bobby's plate, wiped egg smears from his mouth. "Well, I'm too tired to argue," she said. "I just told Mr. Martin this morning that I'd stay on, so I guess I'll have to." Don shrugged and finished his meal in silence, his mouth set grimly. But as they were preparing for bed, he renewed his plea. "Kay, think it over, won't you? I want a real home and a wife who isn't all tired out when I get here, where dinner's ready, and the kid's not too tired to play a little while. Can't you understand?" Kay, seated at the dressing table, took the bright stones from her ears and started brushing her short, blond hair. "Tll think about it," she said shortly. "Anyway, there's no hurty." But she was too tired to think, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 this night as always, and in the morning there was no time. Don doesn't know what he's asking, she reasoned with herself. Besides, I like working, and Mrs. Meredith is so lovely with Bobby. Breakfast, lunch, and naps right on time. And she's teaching all the children good manners and how to get along together. I couldn't do it. AY met Margery Holt in the drugstore downtown that noon when she went in after lunch to get some toilet articles. Marge had her baby with her, almost the same age as Bobby. "Still working, Kay?" she asked. "Yes, but Don's beginning to fuss about it," Kay answered. Then, "Do you think I'm unreasonable, Marge? You stay at home, you know how it is. I want to keep on working until we have some of the nice things." "Well, of course, Don makes more than Ed. But staying at home's no cinch. I'm real tired at night, and we don't go out much as we can't afford a baby-sitter very often. Bobby's all right, isn't he?" "Oh, yes, fine. Mrs. Meredith is wonderful. She takes care of four children, all under two. Some are creeping, some just staggering around. And the jargon!" Kay laughed. "She told me this morning that Bobby said 'Mawy' the other day. She thought he was trying to say Meredith." Margery laughed. "Of course, that's natural. He sees far more of her than of you." Kay winced, but did not reply, while Margery continued, "And once they get started talking My Danny was slow, too, but he's SECOND BEST been saying Da da and Mum for two or three weeks. Ed was so proud, you'd think no child ever talked before." "Mum, mum," Danny interrupted. "Da da!" his tiny hands waving in an ecstasy of accomplishment. Kay smiled down at him, a small stirring of jealousy in her heart. It wasn't any lack in Bobby, of course. She'd start tonight saying Da da and Mummy over and over. It wouldn't be long. "And his first step," Margery was bubbling on. "Oh, that was a day. Maybe, it's because Danny's our first, but Ed would hardly let the child rest a minute. 'Stand up now,' he'd say, 'like a little man. That's it. Now, come to Daddy.' Over and over, he'd urge him until I had to step in and put him to bed." She laughed. "I suppose it's the same with you." Kay nodded. She wasn't going to tell Marge that they hadn't known about Bobby's first step alone until he was really walking. Mrs. Meredith had too many first steps to report, maybe. "Well, I've a tub of laundry waiting," Marge exclaimed. "Come up some Saturday and we'll compare children. So long." '6 Gar Mummy, Daddy," Kay coaxed Bobby that night as she was preparing him for bed. She pulled a tiny shirt from over his small blond head. "Mummy, Dadd " yMawy," Bobby replied stolidly. "Mawy." "What's that he's trying to say?" Don asked from his seat on the bed. 231 "Meredith, I guess. At least, Mrs. Meredith thinks so," Kay replied shortly, "or imagines,' she added. "Though with all those babies gabbing away, I don't know how she'd know who really did say it." Don's face was inscrutable. He started to speak, thought better of it, and lapsed into silence. "Did you think any more about giving up your job, Kay?" He asked later as she washed and he wiped the dishes. "No," she answered crisply. "Well, do," he urged. "You're looking tired, honey. I'd think you'd rather stay home." "Marg Holt stays home and she gets tired, too," Kay interjected, "real tired, she expressed it today. They're having a hard time financially, too. I believe she envies?? Us. Don shrugged and carried a load of dishes to the cupboard. "I wish I'd never let you go back to work," he said grimly. "Then the car wouldn't be paid for, maybe not even the doctor bill for Bobby, and a lot of other things," she flashed. "Don't forget that." She wiped off the table, hung up the towels, "I've some things to wash out," she said shortly. "Okay," Don said, his mouth a grim line. "Anything I can do?" "No," Kay answered and watched him out of the kitchen. Perhaps Don had forgotten how things had been, she thought, her hands deep in soapsuds. They had married on faith and a shoestrong. She had her job, he had his and, of course, with one rent to pay instead of 232 two and home-cooked meals so much cheaper than restaurant ones they had decided they could get along. They had for a time. The furnished apartment did very well until they found an unbelievable bargain in a house. They had furnished it with unclaimed furniture from a storage place, all on time, of course. Then, their luck had faded. Don's car gave out, and they had to buy another, and Dr. Wellman _informed them that Bobby was on the way. Soon, there was only Don's salary. Doctor bills mounted, crib, carriage, layette had to be bought, later, hospital bills, nurses and pediatricians to be paid. The first of the month became a nightmare of juggling salary against groceries, bills, and house and car payments. There never was enough to go around. Kay watched Bobby through many a minor upset to save another doctor bill. HEN, she had found Mrs. Meredith. Kay reached for the soap box, recalling her first encounter with her. She had gone for a walk in the park with four-month-old Bobby and a sudden rainstorm had sent her up on the porch of a nearby house for shelter. Suddenly, the door opened and a pleasant woman had appeared. "Come in, my dear," she exclaimed. "You're getting wet. I'm Mrs. Meredith." Thankfully, Kay accepted and found inside what seemed to be a room full of bassinets, cribs, playpens, all with children in them, all nearly the same size. "Are they all yours?" she asked in bewilderment. "Twins or tripRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 lets, or..." she stammered, looking from one to the other. "Oh, no," Mrs. Meredith laughed. "T only take care of them. It's just another way of earning a living." She picked a string of plastic balls up and handed it to the occupant of a bassinet. "I love children, and it's much easier if they're all about the same age." "But—but where are their mothers?" Kay gasped. I "Oh, working. Diane, here has a father in Korea, Jerry over there in the play-pen, his father is dead. Mary's mother works to make ends meet. Different reasons, you know," she explained. "But sit down and let me see your baby. Boy, isn't it?" Kay complied, and by the time the rain had ended and Mrs. Meredith had disclosed her terms, she was thoroughly imbued with her new idea. Everything, the room, the babies were shining clean, the children seemed happy and well cared for. This would be the answer, and Mr. Martin, her employer, had told her any time she wanted to come back, he'd find a place for her. "Would you take Bobby?" she had asked. "I really need to work, we're so in debt. And I'd feel perfectly safe if he were here." Mrs. Meredith hesitated and looked about. "I've never taken more than four at a time," she objected. "I'm afraid not.' She brightened. "Judy's mother is getting better. Perhaps it won't be too long before she can care for her herself. Give me your name and telephone. I'll call when I can take him." Bobby had gone to Mrs. Mere- SECOND BEST dith at six months of age, ten months ago. They'd paid their debts, one by one, bought a few pieces of furniture, finished the payments on the car—and now Kay poured the pan of suds into the sink, filled it with fresh water, and started rinsing small shirts and stockings, overalls, and sweaters. Now, with an automatic washer, Bobby's clothes would all be clean and dried by the time he was in bed and she'd be through for the night. She crisscrossed a cord in the kitchen and hung up the small garments with a sigh of relief. Maybe this was the last time. 'There wasn't a single reason why the washer might not be decided upon tomorrow, or the next day at the latest. ON made only a small objection, going with her to decide on the make and size most suitable. After that, life went along as usual, except that Kay wasn't so tired at night, and they had their evenings together. "I guess you were right, Kay," Don owned grudgingly one evening. 'The weary lines had disappeared from the face she bent over her mending. "At least, about the washer," he amended. ""What's that you are sewing on?" "Bobby's overalls. I've mended and mended them but hand-sewing doesn't hold. I believe I'll get a sewing machine. It would really be a saving. I could make the drapes for this room for a third of the price they charge." Don shook his head wearily. "Here we go again," was all he said. Kay went on, "And I saw a sofa in Hanagan's window, just the color 233 I want." Kay turned and looked about the room. "Everything's so shabby.