[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Poem | Title: Sunshine | Author: Kent]
["Sunshine and Rain," by Ruth K. Kent]
Though  chilly  winds  torment  me, 
I  know  it  must  be  spring. 
Sunshine  and  U\ ain 
Ruth  K.  Kent 
It  takes  a  lot  of  clouds 
To  make  it  rain  all  day; 
It  takes  a  lot  of  sun 
To  drive  the  clouds  away; 
It  takes  a  lot  of  frowns 
To  make  a  child  look  sad, 
But  only  one  big  smile 
To  make  a  child  feel  glad.

"Within  Our  Reach" 
Donna  Day 
THE  boy,  emerging  from  the  ture  lay  down  the  long,  straight 
flow  of  sleep,  lay  quietly  in  autumn  road, 
his  bed  on  the  back  porch.  The  wheels  of  the  car  stirred  and 
With  intense  loneliness,  he  con-  rattled  the  brown  leaves,  and 
templated  the  tremendous  and  mov-  they  scattered  down  the  road  be- 
ing quietness  of  awakening.  Could  hind  them  as  noisily  as  rustlers  on 
one  awaken  and  continue  dream-  a  midnight  ride.  A  sagebrush  plain 
ing?  The  slow  consciousness  of  his  appeared  as  the  road  ran  level  and 
surroundings  took  shape  out  of  unbroken  to  the  base  of  the  distant 
shadow.  That  first  light  brought  mountain.  Then  the  land  swept 
the  sudden  realization  that  tomor-  upward  to  the  lift  of  the  crater's 
row  they  would  go  to  the  crater.  No,  shoulder.  The  crater  was  not  as  big 
not  tomorrow.  Today/  Lifting  as  the  boy  had  anticipated, 
himself  abruptly,  he  started  to  The  mother  parked  the  car  at 
climb  out  of  bed.  There  were  so  the  base  of  the  mountain,  and  the 
many  wonderful  things  to  see  and  two  started  the  climb  up  the  steep 
think  about.  side.    It  was  a  desolate  slope,  warm 
Suddenly  his  mother  stood  in  the  and     dusty.     Coarse     cinder     ash 
kitchen   doorway   looking   upward,  sucked  at  their  feet.  The  pea-sized 
Out  of  the  glowing  east,  spears  of  lava    fragments    were    pierced    by 
sunlight  illuminated  her  face  and  scrub  brush  and  rough  salt  grasses, 
put  a  glitter  in  her  pale  hair.    She  Their  breath  came  in  short  gasps, 
shook  out  her  apron  as  if  it  were  with  the  sensation  that  the  world 
sun  crumbs  she  was  scattering.  was  slipping  back  while  they  were 
Quickly  the  boy  was  out  of  bed  standing  still.     But,   at  last,   they 
to  inquire  fervently  if  his  mother  reached  the  first  level,  where  an  old 
remembered  the  promised  visit  to  road   wound    around    through   the 
the  crater.  red  and.  gray  rocks.  The  boy  and 
Could  she  forget  when  a  pair  of  his  mother  sat  down  to  rest.  It  was 
wide,  inquiring  eyes  looked  at  her?  changed  air  they  breathed,  ancient 
The  boy  dressed  quickly  in  the  and  aromatic, 
circle  of  the  warmth  made  by  the  Shortly  the   boy   stood   up   and 
kitchen   range.     The  bacon   sput-  studied  the  magic-shaped  cone  that 
tered  and  the  eggs  bounced  in  the  towered    above    them.    The    crest
