[Vol41 | April 1954 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Wangsgaard]
[POETRY "Even the Moonlight," — Frontispiece Eva Willes Wangsgaard]
she  wrote  poetry  on  the  backs  of 
work  sheets.  She  was  later  gradu- 
ated from  Harvard  University,  where 
she  is  now  a  teaching-fellow.  Her 
first  novel,  Stephaniaj  was  a  Literary 
Guild  selection  last  spring. 
jyi ABEL  BORG  JENKINS,  Salt 
Lake  City  musician  and  teach- 
er, was  recently  paid  a  high  tribute 
by  internationally  famous  Utah 
pianist  Grant  Johannesen,  who 
spoke  of  his  former  teacher  as  being 
the  ''most  important"  in  his  long 
career  of  piano  study. 
OIRTHDAY  congratulations  are 
extended  to  Mrs.  Augusta  Sten- 
quist,  Tremonton,  Utah,  for  her 
ninety-ninth  birthday;  Mrs.  Julia 
Caroline  Beal  Burr,  Provo,  Utah, 
ninety-six;  Mrs.  Amanda  L.  Pope, 
Garden  City,  Utah,  ninety-five; 
Mrs.  Anna  Rogers  Moyes,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  ninety-four;  Mrs.  Sarah 
Ann  Smith  Boren,  Salt  Lake  City, 
ninety-two;  Mrs.  Amy  Keister, 
Grand  Island,  Nebraska,  ninety- 
two. 
Page  239

EDITOWAL 
VOL.  41 
APRIL  1954 
NO.  4 
Jtrbor   CO 
ail 
Plant  thou  a  tree  whose  grief  less  leaves  shall  sing 
Thy  deed  and  thee,  each  fresh  unfolding  spring. 
— E.  M.  Thomas. 
■pVERY  nation  has  in  the  pages 
of  its  history  some  heroes,  some 
great  deeds,  or  some  incident  in  the 
national  life  which  it  desires  to  hold 
in  remembrance,  or  some  object  to 
which  it  attaches  some  special 
significance.  There  are  a  number 
of  the  days  on  the  calendar  which 
are  specially  set  apart  as  holidays 
in  the  United  States.  Most  of  these 
days  are  kept  in  remembrance  of 
the  past,  but  one  of  our  American 
holidays  turns  its  face  toward  the 
future,  rather  than  toward  the  past. 
It  is  Arbor  Day,  which  is  kept  as 
a  symbol  of  progress,  so  that  the 
children  of  the  present  may  be  able 
to  prepare  a  blessing  for  the  chil- 
dren of  the  future. 
Arbor  day  owes  its  origin  to  }. 
Sterling  Morton,  a  former  secretary 
of  Agriculture,  when  he  was  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Nebraska  State  Board  of 
Agriculture  in  1872.  Before  the  in- 
auguration of  this  day,  Nebraska 
was  called  the  treeless  state.  On 
the  first  Arbor  Day,  more  than  a 
million  trees  were  planted.  During 
the  next  twelve  years  over 
350,000,000  trees,  vines,  and  shrubs 
were  planted. 
In  the  West  there  were  many 
treeless  plains,  and  this  beautiful 
and  useful  custom  of  planting  trees 
at  once  aroused  the  interest  of  other 
states,  and  the  plan  was  generally 
Page  240 
taken  up  throughout  the  country. 
Arbor  Day  is  set  aside  for  the  plant- 
ing of  trees  and  shrubs  around  the 
homes,  along  the  highways,  and  in 
other  places,  where  they  are  need- 
ed, for  future  blessings  and  enjoy- 
ment. The  purpose  of  this  celebra- 
tion is  to  impress  upon  our  boys  and 
girls,  our  future  American  citizens, 
the  necessity  of  planting  trees  for 
the  security  of  our  nation's  material 
welfare,  and  to  implant  in  their 
hearts  a  love  of  nature.  Teachers, 
concerned  over  the  rapid  destruc- 
tion of  the  forests,  have  used  the 
occasion  to  tell  children  of  the  im- 
portance of  trees  and  to  teach  them 
their  importance  to  the  well-being 
of  the  nation. 
Whatever  the  date  that  Arbor 
Day  is  observed  in  the  different 
states,  it  is  a  wonderful  time 
for  families  to  enjoy  happy  rec- 
reational hours  together.  Take  a 
drive  out  into  the  country,  note 
the  quickening  of  the  earth  as  a 
result  of  the  warm  sunshine  that  has 
penetrated  the  ground,  see  earth 
coming  to  life.  An  urge  will  fill 
your  beings  to  plant.  Why  not 
plan  a  day  of  activity  for  the  whole 
family?  If  there  is  a  new  tree  to 
be  planted  sometime  during  the 
spring,  why  not  allow  the  children 
to  enjoy  the  pleasure  and  make  a 
ceremony  of  it  rather  than  to  hire

EDITORIAL  241 
someone  to  come  from  the  nursery  driveway  look  at  your  house  and 
for  that  purpose.     Planting  is  the  lot  with  the  eye  of  a  keen,  observ- 
most  delightful  business  of  garden-  ant   stranger.     What  do  you   see? 
ing.    Trees  should  be  planted  with  Do  your  home  and  its  surroundings 
intelligent  thought.     They  should  live  up  to  their  full  potentialities 
be  carefully  selected  and  tenderly  as  beauty  spots?  We  may  not  be 
cared    for   after   they   are    planted,  able  to  have  costly  homes,  but  we 
Children  should  be  taught  in  the  all  can  have  clean,  attractive  yards 
home  and  in  the  schools  to  love  and  well-kept  houses.  Those  who 
trees,  the  kinds  to  select  for  plant-  hold    office,    whether    church    or 
ing  in  different  localities,  how  to  civic,  should  especially  see  to  it  that 
plant,  and  then  how  to  protect  and  they  set  a  worthy  example  in  this 
care  for  trees.    He  who  plants  a  tree  regard. 
plants  a  future  beauty  and  joy,  and  Get  the  spirit  of  Arbor  Day,  do 
not  only  for  his  own,  but  for  a  fu-  some  planting  that  will  beautify 
ture  generation.  your  property  and  your  surround- 
However,  we  must  remember  Ar-  ings.  Encourage  and  help  those  re- 
bor  Day  means  more  than  planting  sponsible  for  doing  so,  to  beautify 
trees.  Shrubbery,  plants,  and  seeds  the  grounds  around  the  public 
of  various  kinds  should  be  planted,  buildings  in  your  town.  Let  us  each 
yards  should  be  cleaned,  lots  and  make  this  world  a  more  beautiful 
the  property  around  our  homes  place  in  which  to  live  by  truly  ob- 
should  be  made  more  sightly.  The  serving  this  Arbor  Day. 
next  time  you  drive  into  your  home  —V.  N.  S. 
Tiellie   W.    Tieal  [Resigns  from  the   (general  [Board 
TT  is  with  regret  that  the  general  board  announces  the  resignation  of 
Nellie  W.  Neal  as  a  member  of  the  general  board.  Sister  Neal  came 
to  the  board  in  May  of  1949  with  experience  and  knowledge  of  Relief 
Society  work  from  her  position  as  a  stake  Relief  Society  president. 
Since  her  appointment  to  the  board.  Sister  Neal  has  conscientiously 
and  full  heartedly  carried  out  every  assignment  given  her.  She  has  given 
careful  attention  and  thought  to  the  work  of  education  committees  and 
special  committee  work.  Particularly  outstanding  was  her  preparation  of 
a  set  of  lessons  for  special  study.  Her  artistic  ability  was  recognized  and 
used  on  occasions. 
Sister  Neal  was  alwavs  ready  to  subordinate  her  personal  wishes  to 
the  furtherance  of  Relief  Society  procedures  and  willingly  carried  out  all 
instructions  and  recommendations.  Her  devotion  and  ability  will  be  great- 
ly missed  bv  her  associates  who  wish  her  success  in  her  future  endeavors.