[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 600 | General Feature | A Pretty and Practical Use for the Lowly Washtub Edythe | K. Watson]
Clough A Pretty and Practical Use for the Lowly Washtuh Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society @ Summer picnics can be great fun, whether you and your family take to the canyon, the woods, or the beach, or whether you prefer just to relax and enjoy a cookout in your own back yard. What could be more satisfying on a warm summer day than a delicious thirst-quenching cold drink or a slice of cooled melon? But how to keep the melons and the drinks cold is the question. For this practical purpose, and for aesthetic appeal, as well, the washtub in the picture was painted and decorated. Such colorful tubs, when not in use for keeping foods cold, can serve, also, as containers for special arrangements of flowers and greenery for enhancing the attractiveness of the outdoor rest and recreation area. The project of decorating washtubs proved to be one of the most exciting and rewarding homemaking projects sponsored by the Relief Society sisters of the Parley's Sixth Ward, Salt Lake City, Utah. Even those with no acknowledged creativity found real satisfaction in wielding a paint brush with such delightful results. Originality was the key word. White, black or red paint was used to cover the tubs, with a variety of colors and designs used for trim. Sisters with some artistic talent painted original, free-hand designs, such as the one shown in the picture. The more timid ones used decals, stencils, or tracings. Some sisters even discovered artistic talents they were not aware they possessed. All who participated were amazed with the beauty and utility they had brought to the 598 lowly washtub. Some coal buckets were also painted in a like manner for those who wanted something a little smaller. These were later used at their bazaar as containers for popcorn balls, apples, and the like. EQUIPMENT NEEDED Tub—these can usually be found in hardware stores. Round bottom tubs are easier to handle. Rust inhibiting paint Enamel paint in the color of your choice Additional enamel paints for trimming— small cans of enamel are available in many colors Clear varnish—exterior, interior, or marine 1 or 1%-inch bristle brush Decals or stencils—available variety stores Small artist paint brushes for trimming and designs in most PAINTING THE TUB Clean the tub thoroughly. Apply an undercoat of rust inhibiting paint on the outside and down about six inches (to the estimated water line of the tub when in use). When dry, apply a good quality enamel paint. White was used on the tub in the accompanying picture, but almost any color would be attractive. Use one coat of enamel, or more, for adequate coverage. Allow to dry thoroughly, then cover the entire exterior of the tub with clear varnish for protection and durability. APPLYING DECORATIVE DESIGNS When the varnish on the outside is thoroughly dry, apply decals, stencils, or free-hand painting. Interesting designs can be found in children's picture books, magazines, or in wallpaper prints. These can be traced and Photo by Dorothy J. Roberts a ——— then filled in with paint, or they can be glued to the tub and covered with one or two coats of clear varnish. Fill the decorated tub with favorite drinks, fruit juice, milk, homemade rootbeer, lemonade, or melons. Pack with ice, and a large part of the picnic preparations have been completed.