	DEAR AUNT POLLY:
	It seems friendly and easy to sit down and
chat with you a while, but if I were asked to
sit down and write a piece for our EXPONENT I
fear I should not feel  to steal the necessary
time to think and write one; so if Aunt Em
finds enough in this semi-personal letter to
save it from the waste basket fate, you shall
hear now a few of our pilikias.
	"Going home!" Joyful words with a sweet
mellow sound filled with the odors of apples and
plums, tinged brightly with the blush of apple-
blossoms and after-time autumn leaves, and
echoing faintly with the voices of far away
and long absent friends, what words of melody
they are: Going home.
	Meanwhile, you Aunt Polly can guess what
is going on at this end of the line. Shirts,
skirts, pants and panteletts for four dear little
pairs of legs, garments, socks, and paluli’s for
the pater families, (by-the-by I have made
four white paluli’s for my husband this fall),
besides a dress and sundries for mamma and
grandma.
	Grandma tends the two babies, does the
front room work, and sews all day, all day.
Mamma and Lule divide up the kitchen as best
they may, mamma hurrying to sew, sew, sew,
that the work of four weeks may be crowded
into two. Baby’s advent this winter prevented
any sewing being done until the last little
while. You can imagine how a great part of
the winter has been spent—counting the
months; six, five, four, three, then weeks, and
now even the days are numbered and measured.
Can you enter in our busy homes and hear
the half sad, half merry clatter about ways
and means, where we shall stop, and when we
shall arrive. And then the last hours—the
last time at the mill, at the sea, at the meeting-
house, at Laie—and we are gone.

[Column Two]
	Ferns are to be cared for and obtained;
mosses to be dried and pressed; our few com-
mon shells cleaned and prepared. What a
tedious weary job this pressing, drying, and
preserving is, is it not? Only we who have
tried it know anything about it. You know
our friends at home (we have often said here
to one another) think it such a simple matter;
you walk upon the seashore and gather in
your apron all the shells and mosses and coral
you care to, and come home and pack them
up; or you step out your back door and gather
from the surrounding rocks and trees any sort
of ferns or moss you may like or desire.
Shall I repeat the real facts in this to you who
know them so well? No, unnecessary it would
be. So we will leave the society vague, delici-
ously uncertain veil of romantic fancy over
the mystic scene which the words "Sandwich
Islands" calls to every eye, and only when
alone together shall we compare experiences,
and exchange ideas about our Hawiian
Mission.
	I long ardently to see my children, friends
and home again, and yet to know that within
another week I shall have bid good-bye forever
to Laie with its cool sea breezes, its grassy
slopes, and above all, the ever restless, lovely
sea, whose brow, now calm and jewel-crowned,
anon furrowed with grey and sullen foam-
tipped billows—it makes me feel sad, or as the
natives call it kaumaha.
	One grows to love the place, and feel a love
for these poor dark benighted people, dreading
to leave them forever.
	Aunt Polly, I hope to see you with many
in Zion, till then, farewell.
						HOMESPUN.
	P. S.	We are just starting to the sea for
one of our last sea baths, oh, that we could
take the sea home with us. Don't you wish
you were going along? Can you swim?
								H.


[Column One]
