THE DAUGHTERS OF ZION.

A daughter of Zion, that beautiful name!
	Pray to whom does this title apply?
Does it mean some fair lady of wealth and renown
	That is honored by each passer by?

Does she live in a palace in some foreign land,
	Or in some magnificent castle?
With its lakes and its parks and a retinue grand
	Of maidens and servants and vassals.

O no! she lives not in palace or castle;
	Her few honors are scatterd I ween;
She is one of the humblest children of God,
	Yet her name she'd not change with a queen.

Her people are lowly despised of all nations!
	And the Savior Himself we are told,
Was mocked and derided and nailed to a tree,
	For gathering the sheep to the Fold.

Her Station is humble, but her destiny's grand;
	If she walks in the pathway of duty,
No palace, or castle in the balmiest land,
	Shall equal her haven of beauty.

She lives in a land reserved throughout ages,
	For a people that God could rely on;
To establish His kingdom and battle for truth;
	And He named it the land of Zion.

And there you will find on its fine lofty peaks,
	An ensign unfurled to each nation;
Inviting all people to come and join hands,
	And help in the work of salvation. 

And the land shall be choice, above all other lands;
	When Jesus shall come in His glory
There'll be nothing therein to hurt or destroy
	The hills and the vales shall be holy.

Then Zion's fair daughters be watchful and prudent,
	Shun the wiles and allurements of sin;
Remember the tempter's abroad in the land,
	Endeavoring your favor to win.

Let truth be your motto and virtue your aim;
	And show by precept and example;
That you're willing to work for the kingdom of God,—
	The room for your talent is ample. 

And prove to the world you are worthy to bear,
	This fair name with which God has blessed you,
By doing His will and enduring the trials,
	With which He in wisdom will test you.
										R. M. F.


[Column One]
     [For the EXPONENT.]
        SOME OF THE BEST AUTHORS.
				III
     Mrs. Browning, another talented English 
lady, occurs next to my mind. She was a 
beautiful writer but more masculine in her 
style than the former named writers, and is al-

[Column Two]
﻿together more peculiar and individual. We
may meet “disciples'’ of Mrs. Hemans, of
Adelaide Procter, of Byron, Moore, Shake-
speare or almost any one else but it would be
hard to find an imitator of Elizabeth Barrett
Browning. “Aurora Leigh” is considered her
finest poem as it is also her lengthiest. It is in-
deed beautiful in many of its parts and then
again so abstract as to be hard to understand.
She deals with the philosophy of human life in
a masterly manner and is a grand example of
the reasoning power of woman’s mind coupled
with the fine feeling and tender affection of the
feminine heart.
     “Lady Geraldine’s Courtship” is a beautiful
poem. “Mother and Poet,” “The Cry of the
Human,” “Romance of the Swan’s Nest,” “The
Cry of the Children,” “He Giveth His Beloved
Sleep,” are well known in this country. “The
Four-fold Aspect,” “The Death of Felicia
Hemans,” “The Lost Bower,” “A Drama of
Exile,” “The Virgin Mary to the Child Jesus,”
“The Poet and the Bird,” “The Child Asleep”
and many others are very beautiful. Mrs.
Browning was born in London 1809, and died
at Florence in 1861. She was the wife of the
celebrated poet Robert Browning. The fol-
lowing is an extract from “The Four-fold
Aspect:”

Pray, pray thou who also weepest,
	And the drops will slacken so;
Weep, weep; and the watch thou keepest
	With a quicker count will go.

Think: the shadow on the dial
	For the nature most undone, 
Marks the passing of the trial,
	Proves the presence of the sun:

Look, look up in starry passion,
	To the throne above the Spheres,—
Learn: the spirit's gravitation
	Still must differ from the tear’s.

Hope: with all the strength thou usest
	In embracing thy despair:
Love: the earthly love thou losest
	Shall return to thee more fair.

Work: make clear the forest-tangles
	Of the wildest stranger-land:	
Trust: the blessed deathly angels
	Whisper, “Sabbath hours at hand!”

By the heart's wound when most gory,
	By the longest agony,
Smile!—Behold in sudden glory
	The TRANSFIGURED smiles on thee!

     And ye lifted up your head, and it seemed
as if He said:

"My Beloved, is it so?
Have ye tasted of my woe?		
Of my heaven ye shall not fail!—
He stands brightly where the shade is,
With the keys of Death and Hades,
And there ends the mournful tale:—
So hopefully ye think upon the Dead. 
The Best Thing in the World.
What,s the best thing in the world?
June-rose by May-dew impearled;
Sweet south-wind that means no rain;
Truth, not cruel to a friend;.
Pleasure not in haste to end;
Beauty not self-decked and carted
Till its pride is over-plain; 
Light that never makes you wink;
Memory, that gives no pain;
Love, when, so, you’re loved again.
What’s the best, thing in the world?
—Something out of it I think.
