		 ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
The conference of the Relief Society of this

[Column Two]
Stake was held at St. John’s March 8th, 1889,
commencing at 10 a.m., and occupying two
hours. There were present on the stand Prest.
E. L. S. Udall and her first counselor Frances
White, the second counselor being detained at
home on occount of sickness, President David
K. Udall and other leading brethren and
sisters. The attendance was good, President
Udall presiding. The congregation sang
“Come let us anew our journey pursue,”
prayer was offered by Bishop Willard Farr,
continued with singing; the reports were read,
officers presented and unanimously sustained
by the assembly, after which President Udall
made some opening remarks on the duties of
the sisters expressing joy at the privilege of
meeting with them. Sister Mary E. Freeman,
president of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake
gave a very interesting address on “woman’s
mission” showing the necessity of becoming
intelligent, economizing time and having order
in everything etc. Presidents Ellen Greer,
Phebe A. McNeil and Emma B. Coleman re-
orted briefly the condition of the Relief
Society in their respective wards as prosperous
and spoke of the necessity of studying the
laws of health; training of children; thought
that example was better than precept. “They
should be trained up free from the traditions
of the world that they may be shining lights
in the kingdom of God.” President E. L. S.
Udall read from the WOMAN'S EXPONENT “A
New Years Address” by President Zina D. H.
Young, and afterwards referred to it in an in-
teresting manner. Counselor E. N. Freeman
thought the remarks made this morning
equally applicable to man and woman, said to
him they were very interesting. Spoke in an
impressive manner on order and systematizing
our labors; said that the key to success is a
place for everything and everything in its
place.
	President David Udall endorsed the remarks
of former speakers, and felt in his heart to
say God bless the sisters. Spoke in his usual
earnest impressive manner on various subjects
of interest among which was the necessity of
using more graham flour, it being in his opinion
essential to good health. Urged the sisters to
encourage their husbands in the planting of
shade and fruit trees. Conference was then
adjourned for six months, the congregation
sang “The Spirit of God like a fire is burning”
benediction by patriarch James Richey.
		      MARY E. B. FARR Secretary.


