SENTIMENTS.
	Addressed to the Ladies of S. L. City:
   Esteemed Sisters: For we are sisters in the
common cause which increases thought, broadens
and illuminates feeling, in the souls of true, brave,
liberal womanhood, in this great Latter Day Work
termed Woman’s Suffrage. In the creating and
establishing of woman’s claims, natural and law-
ful, in the developing of her qualifications as a
capable, responsible being, every lady who has
this object at heart, we regard as sisters in very
deed!
	I should have been most happy if I could have
been present on this occasion, but circumstances
unavoidable prevented my doing so, still, my good
wishes and sincere desires are for the success and
ultimate victory of our cause. Beaver County has


[Column 1]
a band of earnest, sympathetic co-laborers, whom
we trust may prove worthy of identification with
those of other counties in connection with the
Metropolitan at Salt Lake City. We do not
simply wish to hold the name and possess the title
of a branch association, but will aim to live and
work as a competent, efficient auxiliary to our
Utah's body whole. Our Territory possesses a
broad field in which we all may labor—advance
and become successful if we so desire.	
	This new phase in the duties of some of our
ladies seems strange, almost impracticable, yet,
this will soon pass away, ere long it will become
just as natural and proper to see them acting in a
political cause as an educational, social, or do-
mestic one. God has a mighty mission in reserve
for woman, I regard this as the beginning of a new
era. A broader, a more enlightened day has
dawned. Mothers will now have opportunity to
enlarge intellectual sight, to improve mental abil-
ity, to cultivate and encourage substantial origin-
ality, increase the study of history, philosophy,
science and politics, instead of devoting so much
time to romance, fashion and the demand which
society in all circles now-a-days clamors for in-
cessantly. Woman when placed in a position will
have to from necessity, fill it with credit and dig-
nity, or else stand in the back-ground while her
friends proceed. Nothing is more requisite in the
organization of women than energy, self-reliance,
integrity and perseverance. 
	Good reading is cheap and abundant. If we 
systematize our home duties; have good execu-
tive ability as mothers and house-keepers; teach
our domestics order, tidiness, and promptness, in
habits and work, we ourselves being practical as
well as theoretical women, properly instruct our
children, having them trained to their various
duties, etc., there is no reason why wives and
mothers cannot advance in the scale of intelli-
gence, in the science of civil government along
with their husbands. The obligations which
citizens owe their country every lady should un-
derstand before she takes upon herself the sacred
relationship of wife. Well informed women have
read (or should read) and appreciate the Declara-
tion of American Independence, the Constitution
of the great Republic of the United States. The
principles are pure, noble, broad and grandly
demonstrated in these Heaven-inspired Docu-
ments.
	"Napoleon once asked Madame De Stael what
he could do to most promote the happiness of
France. Her reply is full of political wisdom,
she said: 'Educate and instruct the mothers of
the French people, for mothers are indeed the 
affectionate and effective teachers of the human
race." 
	The homes of a country are the strength of a
nation. The morals, manners, temperance and
conduct of children are as much, if not more, un-
der the influence, discipline and guidance of
mothers as fathers, at least from babyhood until
man or womanhood is attained, therefore the
natural rights of woman require enfranchisement,
if from no other standpoint it is necessary;
mothers cannot teach their children what they
themselves do not know! Politics if utilized
properly would mutually benefit men and women.
Intelligence is power; wilful ignorance, certain
debasement and degeneracy.
	We are proud of our Utah, for she has proven
herself a pioneer in very deed! not only in the
Woman's Suffrage movement but in many others.
She laid the first connecting link between the
Great East and Far West, made travel safe and
emigration sure. I feel akin to her soil, hav-
ing been born at Lehi on the border of Utah Lake,
which point of land, (my birthplace) is now sub-
merged in water. We her citizens, her daughters,
yet hope to show to the world our integrity of
heart, our strength of character; the very ele-
ments of our Territory are beneficial to this end.

[Column 2]
The majestic mountains, high promontories, grand
wild scenery, broad prairies, rich grain and graz-
ing fields, great lakes, beautiful rivers, luxuriant
groves and forests, vast mineral resources, ele-
gant, commodious, and well-appointed homes,
public and private edifices for schools and other
purposes, are all stimulants to woman and indica-
tive of elevation in thought, life, and character.
As was the case in former days of Switzerland
with her brave citizens, who were partakers of
that spirit which in high altitudes is so natural;
they longed for freedom and the right to govern
themselves, which privilege they permanently
gained at the sacrifice of life, property, and after
patient suffering and waiting.
	In reading history, ancient and modern, by 
studying the walks, reputations, and principles of
great,good men, we find they can never be traced
to mothers who were wicked or of inferior endow-
ments, and the reverse in cases like Herod, Nero,
and many others. Phrenology teaches us that
children as a rule inherit their strength from their
fathers, and their intellects from their mothers.
Allowing this to be true, then ladies, how vitally
important that mothers should be not only good
in principle, noble at heart, but brilliant in under-
standing, intelligent in gaining knowledge, and
wise as students in learning the laws of social and
civil government.
	In our free God given America, where for a
hundred and thirteen years has been provided a
home for the oppressed of all nations, and an
asylum for the fugitives of every clime; a land
made holy from having been cemented by the
blood of many noble martyrs, fallen heroes, dear
to the hearts of her countrymen, over which our
flag the emblem of American patriotism still
waves! A great Republic formed of states and
territories whose loyal citizens reverence and de-
fend! A government (which is superior to any
on earth) sacredly enshrined in the breasts of
every freeborn son and daughter; yet this govern-
ment denies woman the right of franchise!
	Ladies, let us work, pray, and live with a motive
in view; study, advance, and protest to regain our
liberties, to re-establish ourselves; unite heart,
voice and influence with those of our sister states
and territories, in petitioning Congress for redress
for free and universal suffrage.
				Sincerely,
						J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
	Beaver City, Utah, April 2nd, 1889.


