WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING.
	The meeting of the Utah Woman Suffrage
Association at the Assembly Hall on Thursday
April 11th, was well attended, and the proceed-
ings were highly interesting.  In the absence
of the President, Mrs. Margaret T. Caine, who
was unable to attend, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
presided, and performed the duty ably and
with becoming dignity.  A number of promi-
nent ladies occupied the stand.
	After the preliminary exercises, including
prayer by the Chaplain, Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, the minutes of the preceding meeting and
the names of the members were read by the
Secretary, Cornelia H. Clayton, and some
amendments to the by-laws and other executive
business were submitted and voted upon.  The
meeting was then addressed by
			MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
who deplored the injustice of depriving the wo-
men of Utah of the right of suffrage which they
had exercised for many years without abusing
it.  The mothers of the United States had
always been found side by side with the men in

[Column 2]
their battles for independence, justice and
right.  Who implanted within the breast of
her children the desire for a great and free
government?  The mother.  We look for the
great government of the United States to again
confer upon us the God-given right of suffrage,
because by and with it we will be enabled to do
vast good to the world.  For this we expect to
contend; we expect to reach out our hands to
the women of America, and say we are one
with you in this grand struggle.
		MRS. IDA F. GIBBS,
	I have always been an advocate of woman
suffrage, which I consider a God-given right.
Taxation and representation should always go
together.  The rights of women are eternally
paramount with those of men.  I heard a
young lady not long ago say she would attend
our meetings if they were not so dry and unin-
teresting.  She is a poor woman who will villify
her own sex.  She referred to the great and
glorious labors of the leading suffragists of
America.  At one time in the world's history
women were merely slaves, but gradually they
are gaining their way, and each year sees an
increased number espouse the cause of suffrage,
which ere long shall triumph.  They talk
about the patience of men.  Why, one day's
experience of the average man with the duties
of a wife with a growing family would drive
him into a lunatic asylum.  The more we do
for ourselves, the more the opposite sex respect
us.  I have heard it said that woman was too
good and pure to enter politics; that she would
rapidly be degraded.  I do not think so.  Pol-
itics cannot degrade woman, but woman can
elevate and purify politics.  There is every-
thing to gain and nothing to lose in the cause
in which we are engaged.  I do not believe
that it is necessary for a woman to neglect her
household because she believes in woman suf-
frage.  The question of woman suffrage does
not hinge upon the query as to whether the
majority of women want it or not.  The ques-
tion simply is, whether the right to vote is use-
ful or beneficial.  If it is so to men, it certainly
should be to women.
	The following address was then delivered by
		BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY:
	"I have consented to appear here to-day with
considerable reluctance; not because I was un-
willing to add my mite for the advancement of
a worthy cause, but because I feel painfully
my inefficiency to speak in such a cause.  It is
one to which I have given but little thought
and attention, owing mainly, no doubt, to pre-
occupation in other matters.  If I am thank-
ful for one thing, however, it is that I was born
with a heart free, to a great extent, from
bigotry.  It seems more natural for me to be-
lieve than to doubt, and, believing in woman
suffrage, I never could understand why she
should be denied that privilege, or the enjoy-
ment of any right to which she is justly en-
titled.  I never could see those great and in-
surmountable barriers which many imagine to
intervene between her and the rights which she
justly claims.  Woman is the other half of
man; he is not complete without her.  They
are brother and sister, offspring of the same
heavenly Parentage, and should go hand in
hand in every righteous effort, in every worthy
cause.  It was because I recognized justice and
consistency in her claim for the franchise, that
I never felt called upon to oppose it, while, as
I have said, preoccupation in other matters has
prevented my becoming as active a champion
of her cause as I otherwise might have been.
	Woman is typical of two things in which I
place great faith and confidence, namely; the
Earth upon which we dwell, our mortal
mother, from whom we derive physical nourish-
ment, and the Church of Christ, our spiritual
mother, who ministers to our higher necessities,

[Column 3]
Earth gives us our mortal bodies, which must
return to her bosom from whence they were
taken, and after that, by means of the resur-
rection, she gives them to us again in a new
birth, purified, immortal and eternal, and we
become the children of the Church of Christ in
everlasting glory.  As earth will be glorified
and the Church exalted, so woman will be
glorified and exalted, through obedience and
faithfulness, to the presence of the Highest. 
Woman is the gate-way by which we enter this
world, just as Christ, our Lord, is the gate-way
to the glories that lie beyond.  We cannot
afford to ignore her to whom God has given so
great a mission.  I believe that if the history
of the world—of which we have but a frag-
ment—were entirely told, we would find that
woman has typified in all her experiences the
experience of the Church of God in all ages.
The Church in this dispensation will never be
thrown down or given to another people.
Neither will the cause of woman fail, as at other
times; nevermore will she be trampled on, led
captive,or sold into slavery.  The hour of martyr-
dom for both is past; the day of their triumph
and victory has dawned.
	But there is order in all things that are
divine.  God is not the author of confusion.
"Order is heaven's first law," the poet says, but
we believe that obedience is heaven's first law,
and that order is the result of obedience to
righteous rule.  There must be a head, and in
the same sense that Christ is the head of the
Church, man is the head of the woman. So
says Paul.  Now, this being the case, the ad-
vancement of one means the advancement of
the other, and the degradation of either is the
degradation of both.  Exalt the head and
abase the body and separation ensues; decapi-
tation takes place, and disruption and death
are the result.  What a spectacle a human
body would present with its head swinging in
mid-aid, while the trunk,arms and legs remained
walking below!  No, we cannot exalt man and
degrade woman.  Christ is glorified when his
Church is exalted, and man is lifted up, or
cast down, according as woman is elevated or
depressed.
	But woman should not be idolized, or
worshiped as a deity.  It would seem that
many in modern times were actuated by a de-
sire to make amends in this respect for the
shortcomings of their ancestors.  Hence they
worship woman, or pretend to worship her, and
where but yesterday she was treated as a
slave, to-day she reigns a queen "with hearts
and passions prostrate at her feet."  One ex-
treme is as wrong as the other.  If man is
king, woman is queen; no more, no less.  They
reign together, side by side.  And when we
reach heaven, where God our Father rules the
universe, we will find Him seated on His
throne, a King, and our Mother at His side, a
Queen; not under His feet, nor above His
head.  Earthly things foreshow, or should fore-
show, things heavenly.
	I have often marveled at the inconsistency
of human nature, even in some of its highest
aspects.  We seem unwilling to extend to
others the same rights which we claim for our-
selves.  The Puritans of England fought for
freedom to worship God, and cut off the head
of a tyrant king to file a lasting protest against
oppression, and yet came here and established
a religious despotism, persecuting those who
differed from their peculiar views.  Nor did it
end there.  To-day the poets and patriots of
New England, who have sung and fought for
freedom for whites and blacks in former years,
seem oblivious to deeds of outrage and tyranny
committed right here in Utah.  They seem
unable or unwilling to look beyond their own
state boundary lines.  They will sing
eloquently of the rights of the black man; they
have girded their weapons of war and fought,
bled and died for the liberation of the negro


[Column 1]﻿
slave, but when the rights of the Mormons are
assailed, or the red men are the victims of
wrong, their harps are mute; their muses find
no utterance, their poetic and patriotic souls
fail to respond. Listen while I quote to you
the burning words of one of their living
masters of the lyre.

		"Men! whose boast it is that ye
		Come of fathers brave and free,
		If there breathe on earth a slave,
		Are ye truly free and brave?
		If ye do not feel the chain,
		When it works a brother's pain,
		Are ye not base slaves indeed,
		Slaves unworthy to be freed?

		Women! who shall one day bear
		Sons to breathe New England air,
		If ye hear, without a blush,
		Deeds to make the roused blood rush
		Like red lava through your veins,
		For your sisters now in chains,—
		Answer! are ye fit to be
		Mothers of the brave and free?

		Is true Freedom but to break
		Fetters for our own dear sake,
		And, with leathern hearts, forget
		That we owe mankind a debt?
		No! true freedom is to share
		All the chains our brothers wear,
		And, with heart and hand, to be
		Earnest to make others free!

		They are slaves who fear to speak
		For the fallen and the weak;
		They are slaves who will not choose
		Hatred, scoffing, and abuse,
		Rather than in silence shrink
		From the truth they needs must think;
		They are slaves who dare not be
		In the right with two or three."

	This for the cause of the black man, the
negro slave of the south. But I have heard
no poet sing thus eloquently for the down-
trodden people of Utah, nor for the rights of
the red man, oppressed and trampled on. Why
is it? Is it because they foresaw that the freed
negro would have a vote, and that the Indian
would not? Great heaven! has it come to this,
that poets and patriots can only string their
lyres and unsheathe their swords for votes?—
to secure a party election? I marvel at their
silence in these times. Again, why is it that
notable women, champions of liberty and
standard-bearers of thought, can come into our
midst and survey, unmoved and uncompassion-
ate, the woes and sorrows of their Mormon
sisters, left husbandless and unprotected by the
exile or imprisonment of their companions, or
thrown into dungeons themselves, for the sake
of conscience, and the freedom to worship God
in a land of religious liberty? How can a
Julia Ward Howe and an Emily Faithful,
women whose names are written high on the
scroll of fame, justify their souls in coming here
to see things for themselves, but, instead of
piercing beneath the social crust and telling
what they might have seen and heard, giving
a hasty glance at the surface of things, believ-
ing all the tales told them by the people's
enemies, and going away to repeat to the world
the stale slanders of local falsifiers?
	But I know to some extent what ought to be,
if it does not agree entirely with that which is.
I know that all men are the children of God;
the sons and daughters of one common Paren-
tage; and that we cannot prove our love for
Him unless we love each other and labor
zealously and devotedly for the general wel-
fare. May God speed the day when justice will
be done to all, of every creed and clime, of
every race, sex and condition; when bigotry
and prejudice will melt away like mist before
the morning sun, and the light of freedom,
peace and righteousness universally prevail.

[Column 2]
"For mankind are one in spirit, and an impulse bears
	along
Round the earth's electric circle the swift flash of right or
	wrong;
Whether conscious or unconscious, yet humanity’s vast
	frame,
Through its ocean-sundered fibres, feels the gush of joy or
	shame;
In the gain or loss of one race all the rest have equal
	claim."

	An excellent speech was then made by the
Delegate to the National Suffrage Convention
at Washington, D. C.,
		MRS. EMILY S. RICHARES.
	Many people suppose that the movement for
Woman's Suffrage was inaugarated by certain
strong minded women, because they desired to
usurp the prerogatives of men in govermental
affairs, and that the mere desire of that class
of women to vote is all that is now embraced
in the subject. Such an idea is not only in-
correct but unjust. The question of Woman's
Suffrage is the natural outgrowth of the agita-
tion of Woman's rights, which was commenced
in this country more than fifty years ago, and
which had been going on nearly a score of
years, when Elizabeth Cady Stanton startled her
associates in the Seneca Falls Convention of
1848, with her memorable resolution in favor
of the elective franchise for women. And
while the issue now seems to be upon the ques-
tion of suffrage, there is still lying behind it
that grand idea the elevation of women and the
equality of the sexes.
	In order to clearly understand the suffrage
movement as it now presents itself to us, we
must bear in mind the causes which led to its
inception, and remember the conditions of wo-
men which it sought to change. We will then
see that its adherents desire it as a means, by
which to obtain the civil and political rights
and privileges that belong to women, as well as
men, rather than as a means of gratifying any
personal desire or ambition for prominence in
public life; although the latter has been
charged by many as the real motive for agitat-
ing the question. The facts do not sustain this
charge.
	The following resolution, declaring for Wo-
men's rights, which was unanimously adopted
by the Convention of 1848, gives a fair idea of
the position of its adherents:
	"Resolved, that being invested by the
Creator with the same capabilities and the same
consciousness of responsibility for their exer-
cise, it is demonstrably the right and duty of
Woman, equally with Man, to promote every
righteous cause by every righteous means, and
especially in regard to the great subjects of
morals and religion, it is self-evidently her
right to participate with her brother in teach-
ing them both in private and in public, by
writing, speaking, and by any instrumental-
ities proper to be used, and in any assemblies
proper to be held; and this being a self evident
truth, growing out of the divinely implanted
principles of human nature, any custom or
authority adverse to it, whether modern or
wearing the hoary sanction of antiquity, is to
be regarded as a self evident falsehood and at
war with mankind."
	No fair minded person could object, either
then or now, to the sentiments expressed in
that resolution. but when Mrs. Stanton won for
herself the honor of having initiated the move-
ment for Woman's Suffrage, by presenting to
the same convention her resolution on franchise,
it caused much discussion and was only carried
by a small minority, although only its senti-
ment, and not its terms, was open to criticism.
It read as follows:
	"Resolved that it is the duty of the women
of this country to secure to themselves their
sacred right to the elective franchise."
	The anti-Slavery movements that took place

[Column 3]
during the early part of the present century,
seem to have had a potential influence in start-
ing agitation of the question of Woman's rights,
and it is claimed that the arbitrary exclusion
of Lucretia Mott and her American colleagues
from the "World's Anti-Slavery Convention,"
held at London in 1840, was the immediate
cause for calling a "Woman's rights Conven-
tion" in America, and the inaugaration of the
great work that has since been prosecuted here
for the emancipation of women.
	Lucretia Mott had already spoken in her na-
tive land against the enthraldom of her sex.
She frankly admitted "all the differences that
the Creator had made in the relation of man
and woman" and disclaimed any desire to dis-
turb this relation, but she insisted that the civil,
social and religious disabilities of woman were
such as "to impede her progress, enervate her
mind and paralyse her powers;" thus preventing
her from becoming a "true woman" and a
"moral responsible being." Angelina Grimke,
Abby Kelly and others had enunciated similar
views in different parts of our nation.
	To fully appreciate and justify the striking
words of these noble women, we must pause for
a moment and briefly consider a few of the
disabilities to which our sex were then subject.
An eminent legal author, writing on this sub-
ject says, that the theory of the common law,
which then prevailed with regard to women,
was "a slavish one and a disgrace to any civil-
ized nation;" that "with regard to political
rights, women formed a positive exception to
the general doctrine of equality," and that
language describing their condition, if "applied
to males, would be the exact definition of
political slavery;" that the legal theory made
"the husband and wife one person, and that
person the husband," while there was "scarcely
a legal act of any description" that woman was
competent to perform.
	This is indeed strong language but the facts
justified its use. The Women of America who
to-day enjoy the legal right, without let or
hindrance of any one, to aquire, hold, and
dispose of property, real and personal, without
limit or restriction as to kind or value, can
hardly realize the abject condition of their
sisters, who were disqualified by law from even
holding the legal titles to the homes in which
they dwelt, and whose entire estates, including
the very clothes they wore and the food they
ate, belonged absolutely to their husbands, al-
though it might have been earned, by the
weary toil of their own hands and heads.
	That women are fully capable of filling the
positions of editors, reporters, lawyers, doctors,
merchants, clerks, cashiers, telegraph and tele-
phone operators, typewriters, artists, musicians,
printers, photographers, and scores of other like
professions and callings, has been fully demon-
strated by experience. Many instances are of
record where they have shown equal skill with
men, and greater endurance in the trying
duties of literary and journalistic pursuits, as
well as in professional life. This was notably
the case with women reporters during the last
national political campaign. Many of them
did more work than men, and that too without
stimulants of any kind, while the men resorted
to strong drinks and other stimulants to enable
them to endure the strain of incessant work.
	When we think of the changes that have
been wrought in the few short years since
women were first admitted into the positions I
have named, and others which might be men-
tioned, we are prone to lose sight of the power-
ful agencies that have been at work, during all
these years, breaking down the inexorable laws
and customs of ages, which held woman in their
cruel grasp and prevented her from becoming,
in all the walks of life, the intellectual, moral
and social companion of man.
	How often do we stop to think that this is
the noble work in which the advocates of Wo-


[Column 1]
man's rights and Woman's suffrage have been
so ardently engaged, and who of us can tell how
much of the progress that has been made in
that direction is due to the patient labors of
such women as Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Belva A. Lock-
wood, Lucy Stone, Laura O. Chant, Isabella
Beecher Hooker, Frances E. Willard, Mary A;
Livermore, Julia Ward Howe, Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Elizabeth Lisle Saxon, and scores of 
others who have devoted their lives to the
amelioration of the condition of women? Years
ago they received as encouragement from the
world, derision and scorn, but now the wreath
of laurel and the victor's crown are beginning
to fall upon the furrowed brows of these hon-
ored champions of their sex.
	Still the work of redemption has only just
begun. While the professions and higher
walks of life are open to women of ability, who
can avail themselves of such advantages, their
less favored sisters, the seamstress, the factory
girl, and others similarly situated, are still
struggling to free themselves from the terrors
of that inhuman custom, which prevents them  
from getting the same remuneration for their
labor as that realized by men for the same
work; and thousands of women are now wear-
ing away their lives, (in this great land which
has been consecrated to liberty,) by unremitt-
ing toil, for which many of them receive less
than a quarter of a dollar for a day's work of
nearly eighteen hours; and out of this mis-
erable pittance some of them have to support
their children as well as themselves. Is it not
worthy the best efforts of the best women to
remedy this great evil, and, by enabling
women to get just compensation for the work
they do, abolish much of the suffering that now
exists and obviate many of the necessities that
lead to sin and crime? Such a work must be
worthy of Divine favor, and it lies at the very
foundation of the Woman's Suffrage movement.
	Then the evils of intemperance must be over-
come. The amount of sorrow, suffering
and sin that this demon has entailed upon the 
human race is beyond computation or accurate
estimation. Happy homes have been invaded
and domestic felicity ruthlessly destroyed.
Where peace and plenty were wont to abound,
poverty and strife now take up their abode.
Dutiful wives have become miserable outcasts,
and innocent children have been driven into
dens of vice. No tongue can tell, nor pen de-
pict the misery that drink has wrought. It is
the peculiar work of woman that is destined to 
vanquish the insatiable monster and free her
sex from its most deadly enemy. The great
temperance work that has already been done,
in different parts of the Union, under the direc-
tion of such noble women as Frances Willard, 
Susan B. Anthony and their associates, com-
mands the admiration of the world and fully
justifies the prediction of ultimate triumph.
	The National Woman's Suffrage Association
is the most prominent, as well as the most com-
prehensive organization of women in the land.
While its ostensible object, as indicated by its
name, is to secure the elective franchise for
women, its ultimate purpose is to effect the dis-
enthrallment of woman in all the walks of life,
and every branch of woman's work has the 
hearty sympathy and support of this Associa-
tion. For many years past it has held its
 annual conventions, composed of Delegates
from the different States and Territories, at the
National Capital, and, of late years, United
States Senators, and Congressmen, and others
of National repute, have taken part in their
meetings. Last year an "International Council
of Women" was held at Washington, D. C.,
under the auspices of this Association, at which
were represented nearly every State and Terri-
in the Union, as well as the leading countries
of Europe and other parts of the civilized
world. The Council lasted a week; its pro-

[Column 2]
ceedings are published in a large volume, which
gives a comprehensive and almost marvelous
account of woman's work. Although some-
what familiar with the subject I was not only
delighted but surprised at the varied and 
mammoth proportions of the cause. 
By means of auxiliary associations through-
out the country, such as the one recently organ-
ized in this Territory, the National is able to
carry on systematic work in all the different
departments. When the temperance cause
needs strength, in Kansas or elsewhere, able 
and efficient women are sent from different
parts of the land to wage the warfare there, and
when the labor move needs help in the East,
valiant women are assigned to that department;
and so the good work goes on with quiet but
irresistible momentum.
	Since the National has been holding its con-
ventions at Washington, much work has been
done before Committees of Congress, as well as
with individual members. Several important
hearings have been had, at which the subject
of suffrage has been discussed, and lively de-
bates have taken place in the Senate and 
House of Representatives on this question. At
first it was difficult to find champions for the
cause in either branch of the National Legisla-
ture, but since Senators Blair and Palmer
made their powerful appeals for Woman's Suf-
frage, the number of adherents to the cause has
materially increased and, were it not for the
 stern opposition of Southern Senators—which
is founded on the fact that the enfranchisement
of women means, to the south, an increase of
the colored vote, and consequent negro rule—
the relief sought for could have been obtained
before now.
	While the general work has been going on,
Utah has not been neglected by the National
Association. On several occasions leading suf-
frage women have appeared before Committees
of Congress and protested in the strongest
terms against the taking away of our franchise.
Mrs. Lockwood and Miss Anthony are deserv-
ing of particular mention in this connection,
and their efforts were ably seconded by other
eloquent, warm-hearted women. Having been
present on some of these occasions, I can speak
feelingly of the work that has been done, and 
reverently of the noble women who did it. My
soul has often breathed the prayer: "God
bless and reward them for all they have done
and said for us."
	The woman suffragists are represented by
many talented writers and eloquent speakers.
Their newspapers and periodicals are ably con-
ducted and wield a power for good in the 
land. On the lecture platform and in the
pulpit are heard words of burning eloquence
and poetic pathos from women's lips; and had
I the time, it would afford me pleasure to pay
my humble tribute to some of these distinguised
women, but I must forebear. My purpose in
this brief address has been to show that there
is something really meritorious in the Woman's
Suffrage movement, and that by promoting it,
we do not necessarily depart from woman's
true sphere in life, nor make her usurp man's
prerogatives. Men and women can and should
work together, for the amelioration of the race,
and should share with each other the
responsibilities, as well as the pleasures of 
life.
	Let us use our strength and influence for the
advancement of this noble work, for "woman's
rights are human rights." Let us remember
that however great our own reluctance to
occupy political positions, there are those of
our sex whose lives and honor depend upon
their possession of political power. Let us
not put obstacles in their way, by declaring
that we have all the rights we want, but rather
let us individually petition the powers that be
to grant them deliverance from their oppres-
sions. In doing this we will not try to create

[Column 3]
for man a rival, a superior, or a head, but we
will try to make woman what our beneficient
Creator designed that she should be, the com-
panion, the sister, and the helpmeet of man.  
			(To be continued.)


