ORGAN RECITAL.

	A grand free musical entertainment of a very
high order was given in the large Tabernacle in
this city on the evening of Monday April 15th, for
which careful preparation had been previously
made.  Bishop W. B. Preston presided, and
Bishop O. F. Whitney offered the opening prayer.
Prof. Daynes opened with a solo on the great 
organ, and rendered in his very best style, the
"Pilgrims Song of Hope."  Moroni J. Thomas
sang "Nazareth" (bass solo,) Prof. Radcliffe gave
with thrilling effect "Bach's Tocata and Fague,"
and supplemented it with Batiste's grand offertoire.
The great organ never poured forth more soul
stirring and sympathetic notes than on this mo-
mentous occasion when ten thousand people were
intently listening spell-bound, as it were, under 
the tremor of its most powerful and charming
symphony. Prof. Kent on the clarionette and Prof.
Radcliffe on the organ performed with almost
magic skill and in delightful harmony a larghetto
from Mozart's Quintette which was highly appre-
ciated.  Prof. Daynes then gave "William Tell"
which elicited for him vociferous storms of ap-
plause. Willard Weihe the favorite violinist of
Utah, next came forward and gave a cavatina by
Raff, and his instrument gave expression and re-
sponse to the most sensitive and exalted feelings
of the human soul; after repeated tempests of ap-
plause he gave as an encore "Away down upon
the Swanee River," the audience were almost wild
with enthusiasm, Prof. Radcliffe gave in his lofty
style of rendering Weber's overture to Des Freis-
chutz."  This closed the first part of the programme.
The second part was as grand in style and as suc-
cessful in rendition as the first and after a couple
of organ solos and Beech's Triumphal March,
there was a vocal quartette by Messrs. Easton,
Whitney, Goddard and Spencer, the song was
that tender and beautiful one "When the swallows
homeward fly," the gentlemen were so enthusias-
tically applauded, that they could not resist and
sang as an encore "Soldiers farewell,"  in the
same exquisite voice and manner.  Afterwards
followed instrumental solos from Prof. Radcliffe 
and Minor and Costa's sublime march of triumph
"Naaman," then Prof.  Kent accompanied by
Weihe's orchestra, again thrilled the immense
audience with their divine melody; Miss Bessie
Dean warmly welcomed, sang in her exquisitely
happy style an air from Rossini's "Stabat Mater."
Prof. Radcliffe rendered the aria "Evening Star"
from Tanhauser and also "Wely's March."  The
closing part by the Tabernacle Choir organ and
orchestra was a most sublime effort suited to such 
an occasion, Handel's Hallelujah Chorus from
the oratorio of the Messiah.  Apostle H. J. Grant
pronounced the benediction and the large and at-
tentive congregation who had intently listened for
more than three hours was dismissed.  The pub-


lic are certainly greatly indebted for a very fine 
musical treat, to the Tabernacle Choir and the 
committee of arrangements Messrs.  E. Beesley,
J. J, Daynes, and C, R. Savage.  The concert was
repeated on Friday evening as a sort of ovation to
the Denver excursionists on their visit to this
city.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have given considerable space to the
speeches made at the Woman Suffrage Meeting
in the Assembly Hall in this City on the 11th, of
April, as it was a meeting of considerable import-
ance; the other speeches by Dr. Hughes, Mrs.
Stanford, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Pres. Geo. Q.
Cannon, and Mrs. Nellie Webber, will be given in
full as reported, in our next issue.
	Mrs. Susie Y. Gates, "Homespun," is on her
way home from the Sandwich Islands whither she
accompanied her husband, Elder Jacob Gates
Jun., three years ago or more, when he was called
to labor there as a Missionary.  Her husband and
her mother Mrs. Lucy B. Young, are also return-
ing home.  They are crossing in a sailing vessel a
new experience for Homespun, of which we shall
doubtless hear an interesting recital after her ar-
rival.
	"SENTIMENTS" from Mrs. Farnsworth President
of the Beaver County W. S. A., published in our
editorial columns, should have been read at the
Suffrage meeting on the 11th, but the time was
fully occupied in speeches from those present,
consequently the address was handed to the edi-
tor that it might have publicity through the paper,
as it certainly deserves on its merits; Mrs. Farns-
worth has taken hold of the work with energy, and
has manifested ability and efficiency worthy of
commendation, as also has Mrs. C. E. Bean Presi-
dent of Sevier County W. S. A.
	The safe passage across the briny deep of the
seven hundred passengers and crew of the ill-
fated Danmark is a cause for universal rejoicing 
and thanksgiving to our Father in heaven by all
who feel for others' woes. The Lord was mind-
ful of them in their calamity, and they must as-
suredly look upon it as little less than a miracle
that they were preserved from a watery grave, by
the timely arrival of the good ship Missouri, and
its noble hearted Commander, who so quickly re-
sponded to their necessities and made all speed
for port that none should perish.
	Thursday, the 18th of April, the Primary
Association of the Eighteenth Ward was reorgan-
ized; Bishop O. F. Whitney and his counselors 
Robert Patrick and William Barton officia-
ting in company with some of the
sisters who had been invited to assist.
Vilate C. Young was appointed President, and
Cornelia H. Clayton and Lavinia Morris, Coun-
selors; Fannie Young, Secretary, and Gertie
Young, assistant secretary, and Chariton Jacobs,
Jr., treasurer.  The names of 115 members were
enrolled. The bishop and his counselors blessed
and set apart the President and her Counselors.
Suitable remarks were made by Sisters E. C.
Clawson, C. C. Cobb, L. A. Wells, M. I. Horne,
and E. B. Wells.
	We announce with much pleasure the visit of
Mrs. Fannie B. Warde the charming newspaper
correspondent and traveler and her daughter to
this city.  Mrs. Warde is gentle and fascinating
in manner and is an easy and versatile conversa-
tionalist.  She visited the City ten or twelve years
ago at which time she met Gen. H. S. Eldredge
and others who showed her some courtesy of
which she has cherished a pleasing remembrance.
Mrs. Warde seems entirely free from prejudice 
on the Mormon question, and manifests consider-
able interest in the subject as touching the condi-
tion of women under the enforcement of the Ed-
[Column 2]
mund's Law.  It is refreshing in view of the mis
representations so widely circulated against Mor-
mon women, to find now and then one who is
willing to believe the facts as they exist, and
listen to the recital of their side of the story from
their own standpoint. We heartily wish Mrs.
Warde a pleasant journey home and success in
her literary work; she is about to bring out two
new books on Mexico, and knowing something of
her talents as a writer, we have no doubt they will
prove beneficial to the public, and we trust also a
financial benefit to the author.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore of Boston, paid a fly-
ing visit to Salt Lake recently, coming with the 
Raymond excursion from the West and arriving
here on Saturday morning, April 20th.  On Sun-
day evening April 21st, Mrs. Livermore delivered
an Easter sermon entitled "Has the Night of
Death no Morning."  The subject being a suit-
able one for Easter Sunday.  She is a magnetic
speaker, a woman of brilliant oratorical power;
fluent in language, she pours forth her thoughts
and feelings seemingly without the least effort.
In appearance she is what might appropriately be
called a magnificent woman; has a splendid
physique, a clear, far-reaching and well-modu-
lated voice.  The officers of the Utah Woman
Suffrage Association hadf decorated the stands in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall profusely and hand-
somely with flowers, in honor of the occasion;
Mrs. Livermore being, as they are well aware,
one of the most noted public lecturers and
speakers on the American platform.
	The newspaper comments upon "the pen and 
paper fighting at Long Range" between the
distinguished writers Ella Wheeler Wilcox and
Gertrude L. Atherton is rather ridiculous, and in
view of the literary reputation of the two ladies
unfortunate if not lamentable.  Women of more
than ordinary minds and attainments should be
above differing on the subject of personal at-
tractions.  Mrs. A. writes: "Ella Wheeler Wilcox
is a little mouse colored woman who needs con-
spicuous dress to be noticed.  Her only good
feature is a sensitive mouth.  She is very thin 
and in a dim light looks quite young."  Mrs. W. 
replies in defiance: "Had I revealed myself as
freely in full dress when you called, as you re-
vealed yourself when I called, your meager
charms of body might have been abashed before
my more generous ones, and my mouse-colored
tints as you must know could easily become a 
lovely golden, by calling in the aid of a hair
bleacher.  The day I last saw you in the cruel
light of the stationer's shop in your morning attire
I noticed with surprise that your former delicate
complextion looked sallow and shriveled.  It gave
me an absolute pang of "regret." Is it not ridicu-
lous thus to fling at each other, in view of the
sentiments advocated in their writings?  It would
be far more fitting to "regret" such littleness as the
sparring of these two, than the complexion or its
comments.


