RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. 
EDITOR EXPONENT. 
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Cassia Stake was held at Cassia,
March 22d, 1889.  Present on the stand Pre-
sident Louisa Haight and Counselor Elizabeth
Tuttle; presidents of the different branch or-
ganizations, also of the Stake presidency Bro.
H. D. Haight and Counselor Moroni Pickett,
and Robert Wilson, patriarch.
	Conference opened by singing and prayer.
Statistical and financial reports were read,
showing the branches to be in fair condition,
also each president verbally reported, that the
sisters were striving to do their best.
	President Louisa Haight said: “the sisters
have their own salvation to work out and
should have opportunities of performing their
duties.”
	Bishop Taylor of Elba, spoke at some
length on the training of children.
	Counselor Elizabeth Tuttle bore her testi-
mony, and made a few remarks.
	During the afternoon session the conference
was addressed by Brother Moroni Pickett who
spoke of kindness and love in training our
children, and various other interesting subjects.
	Sister Durfee, President of primary at Almo,
advised the young people to make the best of
their opportunities.
	Sister Janet Whittle bore her testimony.
	Sister Annie Bird spoke of the way in which
women everywhere are coming to the front.
“It is a noble thing to be a mother in Israel;
we should esteem the name Latter-day Saint.”
	Brother Robert Wilson spoke at some length
said “a sister with the desire of God in her
heart is a helpmeet indeed; sisters can do
much by prompting their husbands in their
duties, husbands should also prompt their
wives.  Mothers need advancement, for they
have the care and training of the young
children from their infancy."
	Brother Orson Bates spoke upon the burdens
of wifehood, and how a considerate husband
may lighten the same; said if children see no
mean actions they would know none.
	Sister Adelaide Brim of Albion, said a kind
word to the sick was easy to give and was
often the greatest help.  "We should appreci-
ate the privilege of meeting together while we
have it.
	President H. D. Haight spoke upon hus-
bands acknowledging the equality, and consid-
ering the wishes of their wives.
	Closing remarks by President L. Haight.
Adjourned to meet at Elba in three months.
			   LOUISA PICKETT, Secretary.


Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett is said to be
dramatizing her story of “Little St. Elizabeth.”

	There are sixty women among the 16,000
dentists of the United States.

	Jean Ingelow writes in her conservatory
with flowers to the right and flowers to the
left.

	In Detroit, 2,700 women registered to vote
for school directors, and they have elected a
woman to the school board.

	The California Legislature has passed a bill
permitting women to vote for school trustees.
A bill giving full municipal suffrage to women
was defeated in the Senate by a close vote, 15
to 18.

	In British Columbia, where single women
and widows have had municipal suffrage for
many years, a proposition was lately brought
before the local Parliament to make them
eligible to municipal offices. It was defeated
by one vote—6 to 5.


