THE HOME OF CHILDHOOD. 

	"How dear to this heart are the scenes of my childhood 
	   When fond recollection presents them to view
	The orchard, the meadow, the deep tangled wildwood.  
	   And every loved spot that my infancy knew."  

	How true are these words of the poet, 
Wordsworth.  Many can testify that no place
was ever so dear as the home of childhood.  
How eminently proper that the home should 
be the seat of contentment, of affection and of 
true happiness, such as will purify and elevate 
the attributes, and through  these the after life
of the child, nurtured within its walls.  Home 
should ever be shadowed by the wings of love.  
Peace should be the good angel that stands at 
the right hand of the goddess who presides at 
the homestead.  No matter how plain, how 
simple its appointments, if order and harmony 
exist, there is a charm like a talisman that 
abides forever after, with the man or woman, 
and is like a beacon on the golden hills that 
loom up in the distance, and blend with the 
azure of the heavens illuminating the horizon, 
and radiating to the extreme point, causing 
all between to be tinged with the roseate hue 
thus reflected from one point to the other.  

		"Our early days—how often back 
		We turn on life's bewildering track 
		To where, o'er hill and valley plays 
		The sunlight of our early days." 

	No matter how insignificant the fact may 
seem, it is nevertheless a tangible one that a 
happy disposition, a cheerful temperament, in-
stinctively impress others, without any volition 
or will force.  Then how essential that home 
should be filled with an atmosphere of cheer-
fulness.  Not that excess of boisterous mirth 
that always lapses into the very opposite on 
natural principles, but preserve a degree of 
good nature, calm, placid and serene that will 
modify any inequality or incompatibility of 
temper, and restrain the over-abundant force 
of those inclined to recklessness or disobedience.  
There are so many phases of human character 
that need guiding and governing in the home, 
that no one, be he sage or philosopher, can 
mark out the regular routine of action to be 
pursued.  The Bible says each one after his 
kind, but we all know, who have studied 
character, that each individual that comes 
into the world, has some distinct originality 
that distinguishes him from the others; con-
sequently, we see how difficult it is to deal 
justly with all, if we judge from our own 
standard, and must recognize the propriety of 
the Savior's words, "judge not, that ye be not 
judged."  How complicated and magnificent
seems the work of the Creator in making this 
diversity, this variety in the human soul.  It 
is almost beyond our comprehension.  We 
only know such is the case, but we know not 
why, nor how these things are so.  
	But lest I grow abstrusely metaphysical, 
and get far beyond my depth, I will leave 
these mathematical problems and geometrical 
truths, and go back to the home of childhood.  
Ah, me, if we but had better homes all over 
the world, and fewer places of public amuse-
ment and recreation, it seems to me the genera-
tion might be benefited.  However, as I am 
neither prince, potentate, no, nor even a mem-
ber of the legislature, or of an assembly of 
any kind, I have no power to help establish 
laws that would ultimately result in the more 
happy conditions of home life; therefore, I


[Column One]
can only use an influence with my pen, for the
awakening of thought on the subject of homes,
and the moral and spiritual effect of their
surroundings and associations. I know it is a
proverb that “home is home, be it ever so
homely;” but it will bear much qualifying.
The spot we call home may be unattractive in
many respects, but there must be something
that hallows it, or we could not cherish it in
our heart of hearts as the dearest place of all.
Youth is beauty in one sense, and pleasures
are greatly enhanced by the very vigor and
charm that hangs like a crown of glory over
the heads of the young, and reflects its bright-
ness on every object. It is the same in every
land and clime, and among all civilized na-
tions of the earth, whether we go to Italy or
Arabia, home is home, and the more refined
and sensitive the individual, the more delicately
and elaborately are the affections interwoven
with the external objects that are in and around
the home itself. It may be the lilac bush, a
rose tree or a honey-suckle, or all these and
more, but imperceptibly to those around us
forever lingers the memories that can never
die, of the places and attractions of one’s
childhood hours. One of the sweetest of poets
(and poets know how to read the heart pretty
well) writes of the home of his childhood. 

"I've wandered on thro' many a clime where flowers
	of beauty grew,
Where all was blissful to the heart and lovely to the
	view—
I’ve seen them in their twilight pride, and in their
	dress of morn,
But none appeared so sweet to me as the spot where
	I was born."

     The heart clings so affectionately to the ob-
jects that have entwined themselves around its
tendrils in early life, that no after attachments
of the same nature ever take so firm a hold.
First impressions are always strongest, they lay
the foundation for all future life, and should
be as perfect as possible.
     The sort of Bohemian life many well-to-do
people live nowadays is injurious in the ex
treme to children. Living in lodgings, in
hotels, here and there, with no settled home
and no place the child can ever look back to as
a true home, is a great mistake. It may do
for those who have no family. If that class
of people like to be unsettled, and free from
care and responsibility, there is only them-
selves to be considered, but when children are
born to them, the subject becomes serious. By
all means, if parents would raise a family of
good, obedient children, and expect to have
them grow up useful members of society, good
citizens, and an honor to their country and
their God, then let them see to it that the
home of their childhood is neat, cheerful,
beautiful, and orderly as possible. Let no
contention or quarreling be countenanced, and
let the regulations of the home life be such as
will conduce to the well-being of all the in-
mates. Industry is one essential principle.
Each child should do some regular work daily,
and all be so carefully arranged that no one
need feel his burden heavier than it should be.
Labor is not degrading, but elevating, when it
is well done; the silly idea that domestic occu-
pations are menial should be discarded, among
us as a people certainly. To be able to do all
that is necessary in the way of housekeeping,
not omitting any detail, from the cellar to
the garret, is almost indispensable in the edu-
cation of one who expects to be a wife and a
mother. These are the women whose homes
are desirable places of restfulness. The new-
fangled notion of boarding is an egregious
error; if we would have our children grow up
under proper influences. 
     In these respects Utah is pursuing the prop-
er methods. I am aware it is said that “in
Utah there are no homes,” but in the face of

[Column Two]
all that has been said or written on the subject,
I am bold to assert that the Territory of Utah
abounds in happy homes. Homes where
prayer and praise ascend, homes where peace
and content pervade the atmosphere; homes
where all that is purest and best is taught, and
principles of right instilled and engrafted into
the hearts of the little ones so firmly that
nothing can ever erase wholly from the soul.
Traverse this Territory over and see the happy
homes. Humble and lowly they may be, but,
morning and evening, the hymn of gratitude
and prayer of thanksgiving to God is offered
up. Listen to the daily teachings; they are
such as will tend to elevate human character,
and to make genuine men and women, true to
themselves, to their own convictions, to the
Constitution of the United States, and the
principles of liberty that are dearer to the
heart of an American than anything else on
earth. What is life without freedom? It is
out of such homes a race of men and women
will grow up that America will yet be proud
to claim.
     And again we may say that the home of
one’s childhood is where the first seeds of good
or evil are sown that eventually bring forth
fruit, sweet or bitter, as the case may be. O
how grandly essential, then, that these homes,
these nurseries of the human soul, should be
of that character that will give healthy tone
to the living elements embodied in the soul,
and impress them with the genius of nobility,
honor, and true heroism! Our young mothers
should take into consideration everything that
will tend to refine and ennoble the generations
yet unborn. Beautify and adorn the home
outside and inside, but first of all get a per-
manent home. Ancestral halls are famed in
history. Why may this generation not plant
them. Our people are the “old settlers.”
They made the country what it is, planted
the trees and embellished the places with
shrubbery, vines and flowers. They are
building Temples, and structures that will re-
main for generations to come. Then why not
beautiful homes? Homes that the children of
to-day can look back upon with as much love,
as great pride and enthusiasm, and as much
attachment to, as do any of the people in
older countries who cherish the tender senti-
ment of “home sweet home.”
     The way in which this city was laid out is a
self-evident fact that Brigham Young’s idea
of homes for the people was a correct one.
Each lot had sufficient room for a little garden,
where trees, and flowers, and shrubbery might
be cultivated as well as vegetables for table
use. I well remember how much more home-
like the city looked while the gardens re-
mained. But though all may not have gardens,
the home may be made attractive in various
other ways. A few pictures, a little pains
taken to make the furniture look bright and
new, and above everything else rooms kept
neat and tidy. Plenty of sunshine and fresh
air make the house wholesome and the in-
mates better natured. Let the children enjoy
the parlor as well as the grown people.
Never shut the children out from any place
because it is too good for them; they will be
more refined and cultivated if they are taught
how to handle things that are valuable and
pretty, than if they are always denied the
pleasure. Childhood’s hours pass quickly
enough and the cares and perplexities of
life bring about many changes in one’s feelings
and circumstances, therefore it seems wise and
prudent to fortify our children by a generous
supply of good nature and help them to
cultivate all the higher and nobler attributes
of the mind.
		"Gather the rosebuds while ye may,
		   Old time is still a-flying.
		And that same flower that blooms to-day
		   To-morrow shall be dying."


