THE WHITE APRON.

[Column 1]
	It is very pretty, more than that—artistic often—
no matter which way it is made out of the endless
variety of styles, and is certainly a great favorite,
but every time I look at a new one, I think a few
thoughts.
	Wherefore all these tucks and trimmings that
require such careful laundrying?	These cost
several times more than the apron itself.  O! you
made those lovely crochet, novelty braid, point
lace, and ric rac laces yourself ? Very creditable
to your artistic tastes, ingenuity and industry to
be sure, but for common every day afternoon
wear, quite an expensive luxury after all. Who
was doing the many different portions of house-
work, sewing, mending, etc., while the daughter's
pretty fingers plied so busily among the intricacies
of that pattern?  I know that apron required
several days labor in the making, and you have a
variety of pretty aprons not to be out matched by
the other girls.  That is what each girl prides
her self upon, I judge.  I know it is fascinating
work, haven't I bent for years over one kind and
another—drawn work, or Portuguse lace we call
it, then darned net lace, of which the beautiful
Oriental lace is now a cheap substitute, besides
every other kind done by needles and hooks that
I could find to learn;  and now when I want to

[Column 2]
read so many good things, my eyes say, "You
might but you wore us out long time ago, with
your thimble in hand."  Dear girls needle work
will wear out, but the treasured store of knowl-
edge gained from study or reading, is imperish-
able and is a bank account to be drawn upon all
your  future life to the full amount invested.
The question is so important yet almost simple;
if you have the time for but one investment of
your mind, which will pay you best in the end,
fancy work or knowledge  ?
	Well, if you must do a little of this fascinating
work, make something for your neck and wrists,
and so elevate your handiwork to where it will
receive its best encomiums, for it can never look
to so good advantage elsewhere.  But the prettiest
lace you ever made or can, will not qualify yon to
enter cultivated society here or hereafter, if you
cannot more than match it with the adornment of
a cultivated mind and heart.  Knowledge is the
most powerful charm and key to future advan-
tages. "But in case I have time for both indul-
gence and study?" asks Miss Fortunatus. Why,
such odds never balance evenly, one will surely
out-balance the other, and which is worth the
most?  But to look at it in another way, what can
be said so much in favor of the pretty white
apron for general wear ? If Jenny is going to
hunt eggs in the barn of what use is that pretty
white article insertioned and satin bowed ?
Who would think of gathering fruit or nuts in
such an one, and  as to picking up chips for the
kitchen fire at mother's request,  the very apron
itself says, 'I can't."  If three year Tommy falls
down, and tears and dirt com-mingle woe-fully
adown his rosy cheeks, bless him, they won't get
wiped away by that starched and decorated
article;  (aren't handkerchiefs generally missing
on such unexpected occasions?)  No white apron
ever wiped away the blood from a freshly pierced
finger in a nectar strung blackberry bush,  or
soothed the blessed toe that, disdaining a pro-
tecting shoe, happened inadvertently upon a
hidden snag in the tempting newly ploughed
ground, oh, no!  When the first butterfly, rashly
incautious, challenges pursuit, and little Annie
forgetful of parental admonitions follows breath-
lessly its zig zag course, until a currant  bush
standing squarely in the way nearly arrests her
progress, what is the consequence  ? Delicate
fabric torn diagonally and unpatchably,  the
ruined remains of lace that cannot be matched,
and dire remembrance of a sister's loving labor,
lost, lost; and the doubtfully balanced chances
of punishment or forgiveness.  Poor little girl,
a strong gingham would better have suited her
play hours.  Just now she would willingly change
places with the washwoman's children that play
all they want to, in clothes that ain't too nice.
When earliest weeds come out in fresh attire
(like servant maids that wear their best on work-
days, lest their position be recognized too readily,)
and tempt the little flori-culturists to hunt for
wild larkspurs, blue-bells and other treasures
that die as soon as transplanted, are they carried
home in the big sister's white apron ? No ma'am,
and No  sir.  Sister Jane looks down at her
lovely apron whereon  little girls in Kate Green-
away hats, and little boys with large trouser seats
and fishing  poles, are distinctly outlined in
cardinal red, and Jimmy and Johnny compre-
hending the situation instantly, proffer their hats
to hold the balls of dirt and precious plants and
go  home bare headed in a vagrant March wind
that has just come along, to complain next morn-
ing of stiff necks, and a slight lump in either
throat.
	Whoever sees carpets gathered up in a fancy
white apron, or a group of socks, stockings and
different colored balls established on the same
ground work ? They would not correspond
harmoniously with the swiss muslin insertioned
above the hem,  with embroidered butterflies


chasing each other over spaces bridged by sky
blue satin ribbon.
	These pretty aprons are well enough occasion-
ally, but show me a good old grandma, mending
for the feet she loves, and a nice blue and white
check apron holds them all, scissors every colored
yarn for all sizes, from Dan's chubby legs to
baby's fine yarn stockings.  And that apron of
grandma's is as clean as can be, and wasn't
laundried by a Chinaman, or sprinkled for the
ironing through that heathen's teeth; or in a
steam laundry with Mr. and Mrs. Everybody's
linen; and it was as ample as grandma's propor-
tions(and they try to match her heart) and I'd
like to know what better apron you could find.
It has corners large enough to bring up and cover
Benny's eyes, while he curls up in her lap to take
an afternoon dose, and he submits to grandma's
apron when he would resent a handkerchief or a
veil in the same office, as an affront.
	Then there's Mary, "a model girl," grandma
says, and Pa and Ma smile an endorsement to
this sentiment, who wears about her forenoon
work an apron like grandma's, only made to suit
the difference in figure, but how neat and sensi-
ble it looks.  Mary has others, nice enough for
just such a blessed home comfort of a girl as
she is.
	Aunt Jane wears a black silk apron that only
needs a brushing when she lays aside her sewing,
and once in a long while a sponging with some
mysterious application, and then it is as good
looking as ever.
	Aunt Jane and I are opposed to the everlasting
white apron, that is, at our age, our style of
dress, the fuss, the bother etc., etc.  We speak
plainly to each other on this vital subject,privately,
you understand, not wishing to even hint anything
openly, that might offend a single dear soul, but
we don't wear them.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	P.S.
	May inquires the meaning of obtaining goods
under false pretenses.  Aunt Jane explains and
May still looks dubious.  It comes out however
that she has been considering how Adelbert El
Roy Jones when escorting Miss Brownlon to an
ice cream saloon, always obsequiously asked her
preference for "lemon or vanilla?" with the air of
a noble Count.  It seems that lately in response to
some requirement of Mrs. A. El Roy Jones, he
amazedly and sternly inquired "haven't you got
flour and potatoes ? what more do you want ?"
May thinks this a parallell case I fear.
								A.J.C.


