[Vol21 | January 1934 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field]
Notes to the Field To Our Class Leaders RE you having discussion in the lesson work? If not, your members are losing rare opportunity for development.
Remember our Relief Society sessions are not just for readings or lectures, but for the most complete development of the members. We hear that some teachers are trying to put over so much that their classes go away in a maze. The lessons are so rich that the wise teacher will give a general idea of the complete lesson and emphasize what to her are the things that will appeal most strongly to her class and that she feels will be of most value to them and interest them most keenly. Literature—Hebrew Music HE Hebrews lacked the artistic side of life, but they emphasized the spiritual.
They thought sculpture was irreligious and painting fared no better.
Their tabernacle was a tent, and Solomon had to hire a foreigner to build the temple.
Their natures were deficient in dramatic ability.
Their only artistic ability was lyric poetry and extemporized song. The harp was about the only instrument used, and this was small and portable so that the player carried it with him wherever he went. The voice transcended the instrument, so Hebrew music was vocal. To "prophesy" meant to sing. Isaiah, Jeremiah and others sang their prophecies.
Thus music was not an art but a form of speech. The psalms were in two parts— men and, women responding to one another.
Sometimes there was a solo with a chorus responding, or two groups of women answering each other.
After the Israelites passed over the Red Sea, ""Miriam' a prophetess, took a timbrel in her hand, and all the women went out after her with timbrel and dances' The Song of Miriam, Exodus chapter 15. Verses 20-21. The Song of Moses—Ex. 15:1-20. The women answered one another in singing when Saul and David returned from the battle with the Philistines. The music of the Hebrews was not harmonious.
Music among them was a voice in which they poured forth their souls.
These poets of God sang praises and the might of God to a nation filled with a belief in Deity, and this is why "the fame of the brightest minnesinger shrinks to a speck before the majesty of Isaiah."
Read the "Song of Deborah" Judges chapter 5. Sing—'"Down by the River's Verdant Side"'—Psalmody No. 92. Social Service "Try It Again"—S. S. Book, 156.
Children sing: "A Story"—Primary Songs, 79. "Come Along, Come Along'"— S. S. Book, 188.
