[Vol21 | January 1934 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]

Robison Notes from the Field Texas Mission. GISTER IRENE N. ROWAN, president of the Texas Mission Relief Societies, writes as follows: "Just recently I have been able to visit four of my Relief Societies here in the Mission, all in Louisiana. I was happy to have this privilege, and find the same spirit there that we find in our Relief Societies at home.
They are anxious to do all they can to enlighten their minds along Relief Society work. I was really surprised to find such interest. We just recently organized the Oak Grove Relief Society in Louisiana.
Some of the women in the smaller places are trving to get me to organize a Relief Society for them.
They are quite scattered but could meet twice a month. I hope we can outline something for them that will suit their condition. I feel our Relief Society is doing a very good work here in the Mission. The majority are studying the social service lessons, something they have never had before and they enjoy them very much. We are able, in our larger cities, to get the supplementary material from the libraries and it makes it more interesting. "During the summer months it gets so very warm here that the majority have decided to hold just the first two meetings, the testimony and work and business meetings.
Some are going to study the "Brief History of the Church." "Last year was the first year our Relief Society has ever held a branch conference. We outlined the program and sent it to them. We took up the social service part of our work and had a talk given on the "Citizen of Tomorrow," and a short history of the general and branch Relief Societies, a musical reading "T'll go where you want me to go," and the little playlet "Home," written by Sister Ida H. Steed.
Other musical numbers were rendered by the Relief Society women.
This conference was something new to them but they thoroughly enjoyed it and are looking forward to our conference this year."  
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager -: Louise Y. Rosison Assistant Manager Amy Brown LYMAN