[Vol21 | January 1934 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in March) INTELLIGENCE AND FUTURE LIFE 1.
Saved by Grace. Many Christians prefer to believe that salvation is a free gift from God, quite independent of deserts, and given to whomsoever the Lord wills.
According to this concept, the individual plays but little part in the matter of salvation. It is the gift of God, often unearned and undeserved. To obtain it one must receive divine favor.. The gift is immediate and complete. It delivers the individual from the punishment and power of sin, and thus exempts from spiritual death. In support of this belief its advocates cite the following statement of the Apostle Paul to the saints at Ephesus: "For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God: not of works, lest any man should boast." (Ephesians 2: 8, 9.) 2. It is not the purpose of this discussion to question the statement that salvation is a free gift from God, indeed rather to emphasize it. It is doubtful that even man's fondest admirers entertain the thought that he alone has sufficient power to carry himself back into the presence of God. On the contrary, his impotence in this respect is widely admitted. If, therefore, man ever attains such heights, he can do so only by means of divine help. 3. It can hardly be agreed, however, that Deity would distribute this gift to the good and bad alike. If such were the case, justice would disappear. The attitude of the Savior in this respect may be likened to that of a philanthropist who decided to offer a free fellowship at a great educational institution.
Being the giver, he naturally possessed the right to name the conditions under which the fellowship should be offered.
Good character, high scholarship, and ability to get along well with associates, were among the principal qualifications specified. The amount of the fellowship and the extent of its duration were also named by the endower. Now, it cannot be doubted that such a gift is absolutely free, even though the one receiving it is required to meet certain rigid specifications.
Just so, salvation is a free gift from God. It would be far more unreasonable for Deity to distribute the gift of salvation indiscriminately among the good and the bad, than it would be for the philanthropist to give scholarships to poor students as well as to good ones. Thus, although salvation is a free gift from God, those who receive it must comply with the conditions upon which it is given. 4. The Nature of Intelligence. "Intelligence" is widely defined by dictionary authority as readiness of comprehension, ability to exercise higher mental functions, discernment, capacity to understand, etc. This, however, is inadequate, since an individual might possess all these qualifications, and yet at times act very unintelligently. For example: a physician or dietitian, who fully understands the deleterious effects of alcohol, would not be regarded as intelligent if he frequently resorted
LESSON DEPARTMENT 95 to its use. Similiarly, Satan cannot be regarded as intelligent, even though he is thoroughly familiar with the truths of the gospel. Thus, intelligence connotes not only a thorough understanding of matters but the capacity to act properly in the premises. If the physician were truly intelligent he would never resort to the use of alcoholic beverages. Likewise, if Satan were intelligent he would not oppose the cause of God. 5. The Lord has defined intelligence, as "light and truth" or the "light of truth" (Doc. And Cov. 93: 37-29) Jesus said, "I am the Light of the World: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life." (I John 8:12) Truth is defined by the Savior as "knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come." Doc. And Cov. 93: 24. Intelligence, then, involves a knowledge of things as they are, coupled with a sufficient quantity of the Spirit of God to act in accordance with wisdom and good judgment. 6. Future Life.
Future life is a continuation of the present one, influenced in a very literal sense by the deeds performed while on the earth. It is not a condition of sinless bliss or agonizing damnation thrust upon the individual by a capricious god. In the begining, Deity, with our approval, outlined a plan by which man could be brought back into his presence; the progress made possible thereby was predicated upon compliance with law.
Concerning this, the Lord subsequently said: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated?and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (D. And C. 130:20, 21.) Again: "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much advantage in the world to co m e." (D. And C. 130:18, 19.) 7. The widely accepted belief among sectarians that sinful man can be forgiven of his transgressions and transferred, in the resurrection, to a state of endless bliss is, of course, a mistake.
Experience has taught us that man cannot enjoy the things for which he is not prepared. The savage cannot appreciate the values of the spectroscope; neither can the sinful man feel at ease in the presence of God. The Lord has pointed out that, "He who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory. And he who cannot abide the law of a terrestrial kingdom cannot abide a terrestial glory; And he who cannot abide the law of a telestial kingdom cannot abide a telestial glory; therefore he is not meet fora kingdom of glory.
Therefore he must abide a kingdom which is not a kingdom of glory." (D. And C. 88:22-24.) Man's position tfter the resurrection will, therefore, he determined by his ability to comply with the laws of God. 8. Man Cannot be Saved in Ignorance. Man will be truly saved and exalted in the kingdom of God when he is placed beyond the influence of all agencies that deter his progress; in other words, when he is thoroughly redeemed from the power of sin. And sin, it should be noted, "is the transgression of the law." (I John 3:4.) When, therefore, man is able to obey (and control) all law, and "thus place all enemies under his feet, he will be verily and actually saved. 
  9, Already man has made progress toward this end.
Through his intelligence he is now able to control many of the laws of nature. To illustrate: He flies from place to place, even from continent to continent, and sometimes around the earth, at will; he speaks to the ends of the earth; he lengthens the span of human life; and he explores to distances heretofore unknown.
This he does by familiarizing himself with the laws of nature and compelling them to obey his will, and, so far as it appears, his progress has scarcely more than begun. In this connection, it is easy to understand that "Man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge, for,' continues the Prophet, "if he does not get knowledge, he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge, and consequently more power than many men who are on the earth." (History of the Church, Vol. 4, p. 588.) Again: "The man who has the most knowledge has the greatest power." (Jbid. Vol. 5, p. 392.) 10. (Just here it should be parenthetically noted that knowledge alone has no saving power, otherwise even Satan, the archenemy of truth, would be saved. To be effective, it must be coupled with wisdom and ability to act in harmony with the right. Thus, while it is undebateably true that man cannot be saved in ignorance and that he is saved no faster than he gains knowledge, yet it should be kept in mind that know]edge alone does not save.) 11. The fact that man cannot be saved in ignorance is easily understood upon a moment's thought. Consider, for example, the case of a resurrected being coming in contact with an evil spirit possessing more knowledge than he. The resurrected being would at once be at a disadvantage and possibly be led astray. Or consider the case of a resurrected being who was not familiar with the manner in which, say, the world was made. Plainly, he himself could not make one, thus limiting his power of creation. If man is to become master of heaven and earth, he cannot be ignorant of the processes involved therein, 12. Man's Future Possibilities. The risen Redeemer spoke unto his disciples in Galilee, saying: "'All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth." (Matthew 28:18.) The Latterday Saints are taught to believe that they too, through obedience to all the laws of God, may eventually reach this transcendent goal. It is the Utopia of human existence; it is the goal divine.
Certain critics have said that such an ambition is a disparagement of the dignity and power of God. Such, however, is not the case, for man is an actual child of the Father and therefore possesses the undeveloped potentialities of Him who created him. Moreover, a Diety who can elevate man to the position of godhead demands greater respect than one who keeps man at a level lower than his own. 13.
Concerning those who, in the hereafter, continue to obey his word the Lord says: "They shall pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seed forever and ever.
Then shall they be gods, because they have no end; therefore shall they be from everlasting to everlasting, because they continue; then shall they be above all, because all things are subject unto them.
Then shall they be gods, because thev have all power, and the angels are subject unto them. Verily, verily, I LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 say unto you, except ye abide my law ye cannot atiain to this glory." (D. And C. 132:19-21.) 14. It is only by means of a knowledge of things as they are, coupled with right living, that this goal can be attained.
This is intelligence.
Intelligence is the only means by which man can return to the presence of the Father and partake of his glory.
Without it he cannot be saved. For this reason Latter-day Saints are unusually interested in the acquisition of truth and its utilization. No truth in the universe is too obscure or unimportant to command attention. All truth comes from God, whether it be from the rocky foundations of the earth or the voice of the prophet, for Deity is all-powerful and supreme, throughout the endless expanse of space. The voice of God has declared that "This is my work and my glory?to bring to pass 'the immortality and eternal life of man." The way has been prepared. It merely provides that man shall become acquainted with the laws of God and conduct his life in harmony therewith.
Nothing could be simpler, more god-like or divine.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. In what respect is salvation a free gift from God? 2.
Distinguish between intelligence and knowledge, wisdom, aptitude, comprehension, learning, familiarity. 3. Why, in your judgment, is man unable to enjoy things for which he is not prepared? 4. In what respect do those who have the most knowledge have the most power? 5. Why is intelligence the only means by which man can regain the presence of the Father? 6.
Will knowledge alone save? Why not?