[Vol21 | January 1934 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Social Service]

Social Service (Fourth Week in March) SOCIALIZED CONDUCT In "Personality" page 7, is found this sentence: "Many children create behavior disturbances over which they themselves have little volitional control but which are chalked up against them as wilful misbehavior." Not only is there a problem of wilfulness involved in this statement but there is also the implied definition of "misbehavior." Postively this calls for a definition of "good" or "desired" behavior. Every such definition is stated in terms of the relations of people with each other? good behavior usually means behavior which is acceptable in a group ?socialized behavior. Thom defines it as follows: "The well-adjusted personality, which characterizes a happy and efficient man or woman is a harmonious blending of these varied emotions and character traits, resulting in self-control and habits of conformity. This type of individual habitually takes into consideration those with whom he comes in contact, either in the home, in the community, or in business. His attitude is such toward his friends, neighbors, and co-workers that he is an asset to society. His relationships are happy and productive of good." (Thom, Everyday Problems of the Every Day Child, p. 135). This lesson has as its first aim the building up of a real feeling for the breadth of meaning implied in "social" or "good" conduct. The second aim is to call attention to several of the detailed items in the practical problem of socializing children. The issue of the lesson is raised vitally by the following incident: A Utah mother went to the juvenile court to intercede for her boy. He had been guilty of stealing various articles, last of all, an automobile, and of sexual irregularities. She said to the court: "He isa good boy. He doesn't smoke and he helps willingly at home." Suggestions for Procedures 1. Take time to point out the faulty interpretation implied in the above incident and to show that part of this mother's troubles may be found in her early guidance along such a narrow line. 2. Assign the reading guide, calling attention to the preparation of specific lists of material for use in the class, 
  3.
Discuss the reading guide carefully. 4.
Assign for brief two-minute reports the following topics from Report of White House Conference: Limitations of the modern family in socializing the child. Pp. 139-140.
Keeping the social relations of the family up-to-date. Pp. 147-148.
Social values in school classification, pp. 170.
Groups that influence youth, pp. 248ff. The old and the new, pp. 342ff. (This report may be allowed a few minutes more time.) 5. The class leader should call attention in a definite clear way to as many of the specified items in the supplementary material as time will permit.
Encourage the class members to study the material as indicative of the many factors there are in the process of socialization.
Reading guide for class members: Personality, pp. 7-10. In controlling behavior it is necessary to diagnose the causes.
Note the four causes discussed on page 7.
Look up a definition of the specific diseases mentioned.
Note carefully the opposite treatments proposed for misbehavior caused by "emotional instability" and "Wilfullness." If statistics show greater delinquency among children somewhat dull is the explanation because they are dull or because of the social treatment they receive? The author speaks of "aggressive misbehavior."
Make a list of specific acts that you would put in this class of conduct.
Make a list of things that children do that would be called "misbehavior" but which is not "aggressive." Use this list to interpret the statement on page 9 regarding the differences between boys and girls. The author points out the fact that prevention of unsocial conduct depends on early diagnosis.
Just what responsibility is put on teachers and parents in connection with this?
Study your own work at home in a to answer question 7 on page Do you know personally of cases similiar to those described in problems 1 and 3? Questions 5 and 8 are really answered better in lessons 14 and 11 respectively. Supplementary Material: 1.
Socialization is a process: of acquiring a series of specific desirable reactions, not gaining possession of a trait such as honesty, self-control, etc. On this point Dr. Mark A. May said before the Chicago Association for Child Study and Parent Education in 1928: "The correlations between lying, stealing, and cheating all run so low that it would be quite impossible to predict one from the other." "Even among different forms of cheating the correlation are so low that it is quite impossible to predict with any reasonable degree of accuracy whether a pupil will cheat in doing a puzzle by knowing whether he cheated in arithmetic." "The results show that there is no such a thing as a unified trait of honesty." Of the effect of knowing what is right the article reporting the above address continues: "The upshot of all is that knowledge, as taught in the conventional way, does not determine conduct.
This does not mean that knowledge taught differently, or different kinds of knowledge may not. In groups there seems to be a positive correlaLESSON DEPARTMENT 65 tion between the group average in moral knowledge and group conduct." 2. Selfishness. William Henry Pyle in his book "Training Children," says: "Probably the most prominent aspect of our original nature is its selfishness. It is selfishness that causes most of the misery and unhappiness in the world. And this is why the teachings of Jesus prove to be the most important ethical doctrine that has ever been proclaimed to man. It is selfishness that brings the most sin and crime and pain and sorrow. It is kindness and thoughtfulness that bring the most joy." (p. 14).
Specific forms of unsocial acts are associated with selfishness: a.
Lying grows out of environmental conditions, and is largely imitative. B.
Control of stealing is dependent upon three social factors in the home and other social institutions: Theft must not serve the end for which it was inteded.
Restitution must be by the effort of the child. The child's property rights are to be respected. C.
Jealousy is a normal reaction in children between the ages 1 to 5. "It is often aroused in a child by constantly praising and holding up a brother or sister as a model, or persistently pointing out shortcomings and defects in the child who is inclined to be jealous.
Nothing is more disastrous than playing the merits and abilities of one child against another. It causes feelings of bitterness, resentment, inferiority, and inadequacy."
Thom p. 177. The treatment is to be based on instruction in unselfishness, evidence of fairness in family organization, and opportunities to share with and do for others. D. Of anger Thom says: "There are centain anti-asocial tendencies that manifest themselves from time to time in the process of a child's normality. A spineless sort of lad it would be who never got angry; How dull and apathetic would be the child who never demonstrated he had a will of his own by being disobedient; how peculiar the child whose curiosity did not at some time or other lead to destructiveness! How colorless would be the mental content of the youthful mind that did not elaborate upon its imagination! One would find that the child without some element of sin in his personality makeup would be as unresponsive to his environment and as devoid of human interest as the jellyfish." 136, The danger from anger lies in chronic irritability and continued expressions which indicate satisfactions from them. If the child craves attention and gets a bribe he will continue to show anger.
Parents and teachers should always seek the stimulating cause. It may be remote in play, or school, or may be deliberate display. 3.
Obedience has to do with the relationships of children with adults.
Socialization develops this into a respect for law, custom and official authority. The change is essentially one of a growing willingness and power to conform.
Apparent disobedience may be a form of self assertion or a healthy natural reaction in the process of growing up. For the sake of safety and well-being children need to follow instructions literally in many things.
These should be taught as specific habits. Any attempt to develop a general trait of obedience may stifle all curiosity, persistence, and aggressive 

  activity In no case are parents justified in forcing obedience in order to give them a sense of personal satisfaction of authority. The psychology of obedience 'is interesting. Thom's statement indicates the problem for parents.
Obedience is not provided for in original nature. It comes as a result of social experience. "Not infrequently one finds adults with a tremendous resentment toward all authority, which represents a reaction to severe disciplinary methods of early life. "Wie must keep in mind that in administering punishment we are always meeting the problem by appealing to the child's fear of bodily harm, and as such it has little effect in helping him to direct his activities along social channels and helping him to think of life in relation with those with whom he has to live. The child will be happier and more efficient if he learns obedience, even though very slowly, by planning his life about the demands of the group, whether it be at home, on the playground or at school." Thom 128. 129. "The value of obedience is not found in the ability of the child to respond explicitly to the commands of those who are in authority, but rather in his ability to conform to standards that he has acquired of fair play and good sportsmanship towards his parents, playmates, and teachers." Thom 131. 4, Shyness. From-all classes of homes, more often from among the older members of the family come the tragic cases of unhappiness due to timidity, fear and shyness.
While this is not always a disadvantage it carries with it enough potential unhappiness to warrant its careful consideration by parents and teachers. It should be kept in mind that most children who are markedly timid in the teens were shy at younger ages. Miss Jean E.
Alger states the problems and summarizes some suggestions for prevention and treatment. (Jean E. Alger: Does Shyness Handicap your Child?Parents Magazine, June 1932, p. 26.) "We consider as shy the child who is ill at ease and perhaps awkward in the presence of others; the child who says little, blushes and looks away from the person to whom he is talking, the child who peeks into a room, sees strangers and immediately disappears; and the child who prefers to play or work alone. It might be said that the greatest danger in a child's being shy is the possibility that he may be misunderstood.
Some have been thought to be lazy, careless, stubborn, or stupid. In reality they were shy.
Timid and apprehensive children, when competing with a group of forty i in school may be thought retarded or lacking in ability. A boy may be called 'afraid' by others when he is really not afraid but does not know how to mix with the crowd.
Perhaps the teacher may become discouraged with the child and feel that it is a reflection upon her ability to be unable to strike a keynote of interest. The shy boy or girl who wants to be a good fellow may be thought to be different, peculiar or unfriendly."
Suggestions for treatments "To shy children of any age harsh or embarrassing methods are seldom successful, and this is especially true during the adolescent period. "It is perhaps best not to push the shy child forward in order to eradicate his shyness or to cover up your own sensitiveness when there are guests in your home. If he is timid about expressing himself, allow him to talk to a small, more familiar
LESSON DEPARTMENT 67 group first. In the presence of strangers let him say his 'How do you do' and be gone; and if your younger child makes a more pleasing appearance than his older brother or sister try to remember that here are two distinct individuals. To compare them may make the shy one only more retiring. "Begin early to let him play with others outside of the home. If the child does not early learn to play with others, yours will be a diffi cult problem if you try to help him to get along well with groups when he has reached the age of nine or ten or later. "Tt is of primary importance to discover the shy child's interests and cultivate those interests so that in some situation?he is self confident and senses a mastery and security." 5.
Ridicule and Socialization. "Laughing at a child's sober attempts to cope with life as he finds it is one of the surest ways of making him withdraw within himself and keep his plans and difficulties secret. He reacts to the implied contempt for him and his undertakings by protecting himself from future exposure to derision. If his clumsy attempts to use new hard words, meet with laughter, he is embarrassed, and becomes loathe to experiment with fascinating new words, before his elders. His vocabularly is then limited during just those years when he cares most for words. The feeling of self-consciousness when using unusual words may persist into maturity, even throughout life. "In like manner, the child who voices his deepest convictions, or painfully thought out conclusions, only to find himself discounted because he has fallen short of the accumulated wisdom of the ages, learned parrotwise by his scoffers, must retreat into the inmost recesses of his own consciousness to pursue his individual thinking in peace. The patronizing adult cannot come nigh, for the child is sensitive and prizes his dignity." (Grove?Wholesome Childhood, pp. 127-128.) 6.
Courtesy and Social refinements of manner. Not "a child should be seen and not heard" but a child should be both seen and heard and taught how to behave as a regular part of his bringing-up. The harrowing scenes of childhood mis-entertaining guests or being warned what-not-todo when going on a visit represent parental consciousness but not parental action. Ina recent article is found the following bit of suggestion: (Martha Pratt Haislip: Is Your Child a Good Visitor, Child 'Welfare ?May 1932, p. 516ff.) "I thought of the many children, of ages ranging from nine to sixteen, who had visited in our family.
Many of our visitors had been charming youngsters, well-bred, pleasant, and delightful additions to the household." The Child should learn a few practical lessons to practice while visiting. "Make himself at home?be ready to conform to the general routine of family life in the home where he is a visitor. "A good visitor eats what is set before him. If he does not, he makes no mention of the fact that he does not like certain foods. "He must be sufficient unto himself for a part of each day. He should read or rest?so that his youthful host or hostess may feel free to pursue his or her amusements without feeling burdened by the visitor's company.
Every minute."
Small duties assumed by him are appreciated., Tact and kindness should be shown 

  to older members of the family. Appreciation should be shown by unaffected enthusiasm. 7. The basis of the socialization is essentially imitation and guided participation. How people act the general social elements of the environment, and the chance to take part naturally are the elements that effect the results. The chief models are living ones, although literature and history may help. In early childhood the stages of development of courtesy are outlined as follows: (Pyle: Training Children.) Courtesy habits. As early as possible: Greetings. Introductions. Thank you. If you please. 4th year or before: Not to interrupt conversations without apology. Not to pass in front of another person. As early as possible: Rising when guest or older person enters room. Removing hats in room or church. Giving girls and ladies precedence. Apology?pardon me?accidental occurance. American flag?national anthem, Visiting manners. Obedience. "Little by little, month by month, the prompt, willing and cheerful helping of others can be developed. During the third year some progress can be made, more during the fourth and still more during the fifth. By the sixth birthday the habit of willing helpfulness should be fairly well fixed."