[Vol21 | January 1934 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature]

Literature (Third Week in March) LIFE AND LITERATURE THE OF THE BIBLE (2) "My word shall not pass away." ?Mark 13:31. The Bible walks the way of all the world with familiar feet and enters land after land to find its own everywhere. It has learned to speak in hundreds of languages to the heart of man. It comes to the palace to tell the monarch that he is the servant of the Most High, and into the cottage to assure the peasant that he is the son of God. Children listen to its stories with wonder and delight, and wise men ponder them as parables of life. It has a word of peace for the time of peril, a wora of comfort for the day of calamity, a word of light for the hour of darkness. Its oracles are repeated in the assembly of people, and its counsels whispered in the ear of the lonely. The wicked and the proud tremble at its warning, but to tic wounded and the penitent it has a mother's voice. The wilderness and the solitary place have been made glad by it, and the fire on the hearth has lit the reading of its well-worn page. It has woven itself into our deepest affections and colored our dearest dreams; so that love and, friendship, sympathy and devotion, memory and hope, put on the beautiful garments of its treasured speech, breathing of frankincense and myrrh. "Above the cradle and beside the grave its great words come to us uncalled. They fill our prayers with power larger than we know, and the beauty of them lingers on our ear long after the sermons which they adorn have been forgotten. They return to us swiftly and quietly, like doves flying from far away. They surprise us with new meanings, like springs of water breaking forth from the mountain beside a long-trodden path. They grow richer, as pearls do when they are worn near the heart." The Hebrew Classics The books of the Bible which have been styled as classics are the Books of Song and Devotion, and the Books of Wisdom.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Be) The Devotional books of the Old Testament, The Book of Psalms, The Book of Lamentations, and The Song of Songs are poetic in form. The earliest Hebrew literature was poetic. Fragments of it are found embedded in the historical books of the Bible. "The Song of Lamech," Genesis 4:23-24, is one of the oldest fragments of Hebrew verse. It is interesting to note that-this historic remnant carries the chief characteristic of Hebrew poetry, recurrence of thought or parallelism, "Adah and Zillah, hear my voice, Ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech." The most magnificent survival of primitive Hebrew poetry is the "Song of Deborah."Israel's deliverance from the Canaanites came through the courage of this brave woman. The poem is a song of triumph, sung antiphonally by answering choruses of men and women, an exalted ballad form. The poem describes the desolation of Israel, the gathering of the tribes, the battle, and the retribution of Israel; it closes with a song of thanksgiving to Jehovah for his help. The later Hebrew poetry consists chiefly of songs of praise. The Psalms, three hundred and fifty, were formally ascribed to David. The Book of Psalms, as we now have it, is an anthology of songs of praise selected from the collections of various writers and arranged for temple worship. John Milton whose religious faith and poetic mastership made him the poet of Eternal Providence said of the Book: "Not in their divine argument alone, but in the art of composition the Psalms. May be easily made to appear over et kinds of lyric poetry incomparable." The great requisite for the appreciation of the Psalms is an understanding of their spiritual qualities. The deep and genuine love of nature as the Hebrews beheld in it the glory of God: "The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament showeth his handiwork." Psalm 19. The sense of the Eternity of God: "Before the mountains were brought forth, Or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, Even from everlasting to everlasting, thou are God.
For a thousand years in thy sight Are but as yesterday when it is past, And as a watch in the night. We bring our years to an end as a tale that is told." The intense joy of knowing God and being permitted to serve him: "As the hart panteth after the waterbrooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God!" ok Ok "Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer." Not all the psalms are alike in their lyric qualities, some are simple expressions: "The Shepherd's Song" expressing joy at the goodness of God, Psalm 23. Others are in reality exalted harmonies; "The Eternal Word" expressing joy at God's demand for righteousness, Psalm 49. There are many natural songs among the Psalms; "The Song of Thunder," Psalm 28, "A Love Song," Psalm 45. Some of the 

  Psalms: 27, 42, 51, 63, 91, 103, 107, 139, are among the noblest lyrics of all literature making the book of Psalms the immortal song-book of the ages. The dominant note of the Psalms is one of rejoicing. The problems of life are faced, but trust lifts the soul into singing joy: "Bless the Lord, O my soul, And all that is within me Bless His holy name." A small group of songs announcing the Messianic ideal is found in the book of Isaiah; "The Prince of Peace," Isaiah 9:2-7, "The Ideal Ruler," Isaiah 11:1-10, "An Ideal of Justice," Isaiah 2:2-4, "A Song of Hope," Isaiah 40:1-11, "And Exalted People." Isaiah 52:13-53. No list of Bible poetry would be complete without recording the chief songs of the New Testament: "The Magnificat," Luke 1:46-55, "Benedictus," Luke 1:68-79, "Gloria In Excelsis," Luke 2:29-31, "T he Hymn of Love," I Corinthians 13. The Song of Songs is an Oriental poem of rare beauty. The setting of the poem is dramatic: The author, a late writer influenced by Greek and Oriental thought, is singing the praises of the loyalty of love. The book has been one of the most difficult to understand.
Many sources and many interpretations have been given to the song as a result.
There is no justification of attributing the authorship to Solomon because his name occurs frequently, because the evidence of thought and style place the authorship about the third century B. C.
There is, however, justification of a symbolical interpretation of the poem, an allegory exalting divine love over earthly love. The songs are exquisite pictures imaging, brooks, hills, vineyards, and meadows, full of the color and music of nature. "For, lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone; "The flowers appear on the earth; the time of singing of birds is come. "The fig tree putteth forth her green figs, And the vines with the tender grape give a good smell. Arise, my love, and come away. "My beloved is mine and I am his. "Until the day break, and the shadows flee away, turn my beloved, and be thou like a roe or a young hart upon the mountains of Bether." The story of the cycle of songs is very simple.
Solomon saw and wooed a beautiful maiden. In his palace he sought to dazzle her with his splendor and power. The maiden, already in love with a simple shepherd of the hills, remained true to her humble lover and, finally repulsing the king, went back to her shepherd. The meaning of the poem is beautifully expressed in the lines at the close: "Set a seal upon thine heart, as a seal upon thine arm: for love is strong as death." "Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods drown it: if a man would give all the substance of his house for love, it would utterly be condemned." The power of Hebrew thought is the power of Hebrew poetry? "The word becomes flesh and dwells among us and we behold its glory." The Books of Wisdom The Book of Proverbs, the Book of Job, and the Book of Eccleciastes are the so called "wisdom books" of the Bible. The sage, or scholar, had his place in guiding the life of the Hebrews. The task of the scholar
LESSON DEPARTMENT 61 was to seek wisdom.
Wisdom for the Hebrew was to understand God and his ways.
Wisdom was God's best gift to man, the reward of obedience. The Book of Proverbs has been explained as a library of maxims containing the wisdom of the centuries.
This anthology of Hebrew wisdom dates from the period of Jewish contact with Greek thought. A collection of aphorisms a brief expressive statement of a truth,) the book is a handbook to successful living. The profoundest insight and the highest moral value characterize its expression making many of its statements jewels of truth "To be righteous is wisdom; to be wicked is folly" may be said to be the theme running through the book. The Book of Ecclesiastes is a series of personal essays or monologues by an individual in search of the secret of life as was Goethe's Faust. The authorship of the book was originally ascribed to Solomon, but literary scholars are agreed that it was written about 200 B. C. The problem of what makes life worthwhile is the problem of the book. The book shows very definitely the influence of Greek thought upon the Hebrews. The author, who styles himself, Koheleth, makes a daring attempt to investigate the current opinions concerning the actual value of life. We see the meeting of two systems of thought. Koheleth, a man of learning, has lost the hope that has characterized his race in the past, and he has not yet learned of the new hope for man, individual immortality. He is disillusioned. His is a noble sadness, yet he never gives up his faith in God. Two voices are heard throughout the book, one of joy and one of despair. Wisdom, pleasure, wealth, and power are all experienced, but the writer finds no abiding satisfaction?"Vanity of vanity, all is vanity."
Koheleth does however, find the secret of successful living? "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might."
Twenty centuries later Carlyle preached the same doctrine, "Blessed is the man who has found his work." "The Book of Ecclesiastes," closes with an exquisite poem containing the lines: "Remember also thy Creator in the days of thy youth." "And the dust returneth to the earth, As it was: And the spirit returneth unto God 'Who gave it." The Book of Job has been called the "greatest poem in the world's literature, towering up alone, far away above all the poetry of the world." The author of his great poem is unknown, the author has remained completely anonymous. The book is a masterpiece of art. The problem of the book is the oldest and most insoluble problem that men have ever tried to solve?the problem of human suffering. The treatment of the problem is remarkable.
Instead of discussing it as a modern philosopher would do, the author uses the dramatic method, a drama without any action confined to speech. The book bears no specific reference to Hebrew life an d thought hence its universality of spirit. The form of the "Book of Job" is a poetic drama. The prologue presents the hero, Job, a partriarchal figure, rich in flocks and herds, rich in family, and rich in integrity. Satan, the adversary, seeing Job the "perfect and the upright man" suggests a test for him.
Catastrophes fall on Job yet he praises God.
When the celestial council meets again, God exults in the integrity 

  of Job.
Satan suggests a more severe test. Job is smitten with the most dreaded of diseases, leprosy.
Being now an outcast, Job went and sat outside the city a prey to his misery. The friends of Job, Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar come to him in his extremity. For seven days and nights they sit in silence and mourn for him. Job breaks out in malediction at his suffering. The friends in turn offer their wisdom to Job.
Eliphaz dwells upon the goodness of God, Bildad upon the justice of God, Zaphor upon the wisdom of God.
Voicing the beliefs of the day, their conclusion i is that Job's suffering is but the punishment for his sins, "they that plow iniquity, and sow trouble, reap the same.' Job rejects the opinions of ine friends crying out, "I have understanding as well as you?will ye speak unrighteously for God? The friends answer with another cycle of arguments: Eliphaz affirming that the punishment for sin comes from the sinner's own conscience; Bildad condems mankind in general; Zophar claims that retribution must efface the sin. Job answers each argument in turn. Now we see a new hope awaking in Job. The self-evident prosperity of the wicked breaks down the argument. Job rises to a stronger faith in God as he declares "IT know that my redeemer (Vindicator) liveth, and that He shall stand at last upon the earth, and after my skin hath been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh shall I see God!" A third cycle of speeches ensues.
Eliphaz draws up a series of accusations against Job and urges repentance, Bildad explains the ways of Nature; Zophar acclaims the value of wisdom. Job is left alone, a tragic figure, robbed of his wealth, bereaved of his children, deserted by his wife, repudiated by his friends, stricken by a loathesome disease, and as it seems to him cast off by God. In the manner of his religion by the solemn 'oath of clearing," the Hebrew "'ideal of righteousness, a form of confession, Job lays bare his case to God. A young man, Elihu, hearing Job's oath of clearing, is moved to speak to Job.
Elihu presents to Job and his friends the theory that suffering is one of God's voices by which He teaches man.
Thunder clouds darken the sky, supernatural brightness parts the darkness and the voice of God is heard: "Where was thou when I laid the foundations of the earth??Declare if thou has understanding?Who determinzd the measures thereof, if thou knowest? Who laid the cornerstone thereof, when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy." Job answers "I have uttered that which I understood not. I had heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eyes seeth thee." "A noble book; all men's book, a noble universality." It speaks to man of God's way. Job's progress from doubt to certitude is a pattern for all men. As sublime sorrow at not knowing God yields to sublime reconciliation at finding God, the mighty note of Hebrew faith "Know God" is given to man for "His is the kingdom, the power and the glory forever. Amen."
Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature.
Chapter 4? Macy. 2. The Modern Reader's Bible. ?Moulton. 3. The English Bible As Literature.?Dinsmore.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 4. Creative Religious Literature. ?Culler. B. Program: 1. Music. 2. Discussion. A. The Nature and Content of the Hebrew Classics. 3. Review with Selections. A. The Psalms. B. The Book of Proverbs. C. The Book of Ecclesiastes. D. The Songs of Solomon. C. Method: Let the beauty of expression and the majesty of thought bear their own message. Appreciation is the purpose of the three lessons of the series on the Bible.