[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 892 | Special Feature | Elder Marvin J. Ashton Appointed an Assistant to the Twelve | ]
—Mabel Jones Gabbott 889 ® Elder Marvin J. Ashton, for- 'mer first assistant in the YMMIA general superintendency was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve at the Friday afternoon session of the 139th Semi-Annual General Conference of the Church. Prior to his appointment, E]- der Ashton had served eleven years in the YMMIA general superintendency and ten years on the general board of that organization. While in the superintendency he gave supervision to the MIA activities in music, dance, drama, speech, and athletics. He had much influence in developing the Church athletic program into what it is today. He also has served as senior president of the 315th Quorum of Seventy. Only a week prior to his appointment as a General Authority, Elder Ashton had been appointed managing director of the Unified Social Services Committee, a new committee to function under direction of the Church Priesthood Correlation Committee. This committee will include the principal youth and child services of the Church: the Youth Guidance Program, the Relief Society Social Services, and the Indian Student Placement Program. Elder Ashton was born in Salt Lake City, May 6, 1915, a son of 890 Marvin O. And Rae J. Ashton. He attended Salt Lake City schools and was graduated from the University of Utah with a degree in business administration. Elder Ashton helped establish his reputation as a crusader for youth when, as a Utah State Senator from 1957-1961, he spearheaded legislation for improvement of statewide juvenile detention facilities. He serves on various committees for the betterment of youth, and has given long service to the Boy Scouts of America. He holds the organization's highest awards, and serves on a national committee. Elder Ashton served a mission to England, and has traveled world-wide as a speaker, directing most of his efforts toward the youth. In 1940 he was married to Norma Berntson in the Salt Lake Temple. They are the parents of four children: John, Jonne Ashton Wheadon, Stephen, and Janice. Sister Ashton is a member of the General Board of Relief Society. SOFT WHITE SNOW AND EVERGREENS PHOTO BY ERIC M. SANFORD A SNOWY MORNING The snow sneaked in on us last night On downy, padded feet. So still it is as flakes float down All muffled in the street. The cars creep past like shrouded ghosts. No children shout aloud. The sky above is quiet, too; One massive, great gray cloud. How peaceful and serene earth lies Under its coverlet of white. That softly, silently drifted down During the tranquil night. —Lucy W. Jones The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1969 Mayola R. Miltenberger General Secretary-Treasurer @ "The fields of compassion have not all been plowed." said Elder Bruce R. McConkie as he addressed the opening session of the 1969 Annual General Conference of the Relief Society held October 1 and 2 in Salt Lake City. A colorful assembly of Relief Society women from various parts of the world heard revered priesthood and Relief Society leaders in numerous sessions give words of comfort and faith, of admonition and instruction to the Society. "Religion must not become an isolated and uninfluential afterthought," but its "driving power must be harnessed" in order that the "needs of today be met." So 892 This group of Lamanite Singing Mothers performed in the Presidencies Department of the Annual Relief Society General Conference, October 2, 1969. Their singing was under the arrangement of Margaret E. Dahl, Supervisor, Northern Indian Mission Relief Society.

Mama did not say a word. She just reached for the Magic Bag from the top of the cupboard, took me from Papa, put salve that smelled of camphor on my burned arm, and wrapped a clean white cloth around it. She dried my eyes, kissed my cheek, and put me in the big rocker. "You'll be all right now, she said with a _ smile. "Just think about it being Christmas Eve, and Santa coming." Somehow it did not hurt any longer, and I almost fell asleep as I smelled the loaves of brown bread Mama was taking from the oven, and watched her dish up hot stew for our supper. The house did not creak any longer, and after supper my brothers rubbed the frost off the window so we could see the deep snow glistening in the moonlight. Papa said the storm was over, and Mama said, "After three days it is about time or we will all be buried alive!" We had just settled down to story reading when the knock came at the door. Papa opened it, and a big man in a fur coat and hat came in. He was covered with snow, and icicles hung from his eyebrows and mustache. "I am Mr. Armstrong," he said, "my wife needs help, and I can't get through those drifts to Kimball to get Mrs. Talbot in time. I heard that your wife has had training with the sick, Mama and the Magic Bag so I came to ask her to help us." Mr. Armstrong was all out of breath when he had finished. Papa tried to take his coat and hat, but he said, "No, there is not time, I must get back." Mama took down the Magic Bag, opened it to check the medicine inside, then I followed her into the bedroom and watched while she combed her long black hair. She whirled it round and round, then pinned it in a big bob on top of her head. She put on a clean white apron and let me kneel beside her while she said her prayers. Papa helped her into his big fur coat, he put Lorin's overshoes on her feet. She put a wool fascinator scarf around her head, then followed Mr. Armstrong into the cold frosty night. I cried myself to sleep when Papa put me to bed. It was sad not to have Mama home when Santa Claus was coming. The room was still dark when I woke up and saw the light shining through the curtain over the doorway. I jumped out of bed and ran into the big room that was kitchen, boys' bedroom, and living room for our family. A blast of cold air came in the door with Mama and Mr. Armstrong. They were both covered with snow. Mama said the horse could not pull them and the buggy through the deep drifts and they had to get out and walk. She looked tired and pale. Papa helped her off with the big coat. In my excitement at seeing Mama I had forgotten about Santa and the stockings. Then the boys jumped out of bed, and we went to look behind the stove. Santa had got through. The boys 

895 December 1969

 had skates, and standing beneath my stocking was a pretty RedRiding doll. But I lost interest in the doll when I heard Mr. Armstrong say that Mama had given them a beautiful baby boy for Christmas! The rest of the day I played with my doll, but kept looking at the Magic Bag on top of the cupboard in hopes another Christmas baby would come out. We ate our dinner of roast beef, mashed potatoes, and creamed carrots, topped off with Mama's suet pudding and sauce, which we could hardly choke down after Mama told us there would be no Christmas dinner at the Armstrongs, just potatoes, cabbage, and an egg if the hens laid enough. The early snow and freezing had covered their crop before it could be cut and threshed. After the boys had washed the dishes for Mama, Papa brought around the horses and sleigh to take Mama to see how Mrs. Armstrong and the baby were getting along, and we all went with them. The horses lunged through the deep snow, sending snowballs from their hoofs back into the sleigh. We laughed when the drifts were so high the sleigh bounced over the top, jarring us when it hit bottom. We arrived at the Armstrong house that looked like two boxes put together with a lean-to porch in between. Papa tied the horses and we followed Mama into one of the boxes. I looked at the other door, and just knew it must be the stable. The side we went in was a kitchen where four children sat with their coats on, huddled around the stove. "You better keep your coats on," the oldest boy said, "there's not enough wood to keep both stoves going, and Mama and the baby must be kept warm. Papa has gone over to an old shed to find more wood." Mama told me to take off my hood and mittens. But when I pulled off my mittens out came the two red apples I had carried clenched in my fists and they rolled on the floor. I was afraid Mama would scold—but she just smiled as I picked them up and give them to the two little girls. Mama took the kettle from the stove and the Magic Bag and left for the stable. I helped the two girls cut out paper dolls from a catalog, and my two brothers played marbles with the two Armstrong boys. Papa came in carrying a big box. He took out Mama's big roaster and put it in the oven, then piled wood in the stove and a few chunks of coal. Soon Mama came to the door and told us we could come see the baby. When we went through the other door it wasn't a stable, but a big bedroom. The baby was in a cradle made of a wooden box, not a manger. He had a red face, but no halo on his head as it shows the Christmas Baby in the Bible stories! Then we left for home and the setting sun made the white world and clouds look pink. Mama said, "This has been a beautiful Christmas day." And we sang "Jingle Bells" to the sound of the squeaking sleigh runners cutting the crisp snow. When we arrived home Mama and I took off our wraps, my brother Ray brought in the coal, and Papa built up a warm fire. "What's for supper, Mama?" Lorin asked. "Oh, we can make sandwiches from the roast beef left from dinner," she said. "TI don't think we can," Papa said, "I took it and the gravy to the Armstrongs. But we can have the rest of the suet pudding and sauce." Mama and the Magic Bag "No, we can't," Mama said, "I took that to Mrs. Armstrong." "Well, boys, let's have some of the nuts and candy from your stockings," Papa said, "because it won't matter if they do spoil our appetites now." "We can't give you any from our stockings, Papa, we took them to the Armstrong children," Ray said. Everyone laughed, and we made jokes and riddles while we ate our supper of bread and milk. From then on if anything was lost, we would ask, "Did you take it to the Armstrongs?" Mama never cried by the window any longer, she was too busy making carbolic salve, camphorated oil, liniment, and canker medicine from the recipes Grandpa Pugh had brought across the plains with him in the Magic Black Bag. They had been given to him by his Welsh ancestors, and given to Mama when she left for Canada. Mama always said she found a magic recipe for happiness in the Magic Bag that Christmas Eve, and she often told it to us: A lot of faith, with a lot of work will make everything turn out right. And never feel sorry for yourself—there is always someone in the world with more miseries than your own. All winter she went through blizzards, rain, winds, and floods to help children with croup, pneumonia, and broken bones. She left babies for ranch women, women on lonely homesteads, and women across the boundary line on the Indian reservation. Through it all she had a smile, time to tell us stories, and time to sing. 897 EDITORIAL The 139th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church @ The 139th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, the 3d, 4th, and 5th of October 1969, in a time of harvest in the mountain valleys, and in a spirit of gratitude and rejoicing for the everlasting gospel. By ships of the sea and by planes of the air, by train, by bus, and in private cars, the saints journeyed to the place of gathering. Many walked from nearby homes, and all who attended the meetings heard the words of salvation, authentic and inspiring as in other times and other places since the glorious restoration and organization of the Church in these latter days. From many lands and many nations, from the continents and the islands of the sea came the members of the Church to be comforted, renewed, blessed, and directed. The Tabernacle was filled to overflowing and other thousands heard the addresses and the uplifting music in the Assembly Hall and in the Salt Palace nearby. Foreign visitors were privileged to hear the proceedings by direct translation. By radio and television, other thousands in many parts of the world participated in a renewed dedication of their lives to spiritual ideals and a devotion to service and brotherhood in their daily lives. In addition to the Tabernacle Choir, three other choruses sang during the meetings: The Brigham Young University Combined Chorus, the Singing Mothers from Cottonwood, Mill Creek, Murray, and Wilford regions; and the MIA Girls Centennial Chorus. President David O. McKay, from his nearby home, presided at all the conference sessions, and the meetings were conducted by President Hugh B. Brown, President Nathan Eldon Tanner, President Joseph Fielding Smith, and President Alvin R. Dyer of the First Presidency. President Thorpe B. Isaacson was in his place during the conference. Elder Marvin J. Ashton, former First Assistant YMMIA Superintendent, was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Volume 56 December 1969