[Vol1 | Aug 1914 | Sequence: 03a | Category: Lesson | Title: Health and Hygiene Lesson I]

HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson I.
Care of the Ear. (Forty Minutes.) The ear is a delicate organ easily affected by weakness or and it is particularly sensitive in childhood. disease, It consists of three parts, the external or fleshy part, the middle ear or drum and the internal ear.
The deafness which is often a sequel of diseases affecting healthy and beautiful children is a dreadful handicap.
When such diseases and fevers come early in life the little patients forget the speech they have earlier learned and thus become deaf-mutes.
Deafness sometimes follows measles or smallpox, but more frequently it follows scarlet fever and meningitis.
There are also other diseases which cause deafness, such as ulceration, thickening, or perforation of the tympanum (eardrum).
Deafness may be caused by obstruction of the lining membrane of the Eustachian tube, or from throat diseases which affect the Eustachian tube.
Earache is frequently caused by a cold which gives rise to some of the affections mentioned or it may be from a neuralgic pain.
Partial deafness or a ringing in the ears may be caused by an accumulation of wax which becomes hardened, causing pressure on the tympanum.
A severe slap on the ear has been known to rupture the tympanum and cause deafness.
Ear troubles may be avoided by keeping the child in the best possible condition of health.
It is now a recognized fact that by exercising care many children grow to maturity without having the so-called children's diseases.
In case of pain in the ear hot fermentation or hot dry applications give relief.
Sometimes the neuralgic pain that comes from teething may be relieved by putting in the ear a piece of cotton dipped in warm consecrated oil.
To remove hardened wax or foreign substances from the ear take the syringe and very gently indeed give douches of warm water to which has been added soda in the proportion of a level teaspoonful to a pint.
The ear should be held downward to help the escape of the foreign matter.
The greatest care should be exercised or permanent injury may be done the patient.
When this treatment does not succeed, then call  a physician a specialist if possible.  8 .
Nose and Throat.
Tlie nose is not only the organ of smell, but it also bears a most important part in the act of breathing.
By passing through the nose the air is both warmed and strained before entering the lungs.
Children should naturally inhale the air through the nose, but sometimes obstructive growths occur and the child becomes a mouth breather.
The habit of breathing through the mouth is detrimental to the looks; and more important still, it is detrimental to health, as many diseases are contracted in that way.
The throat also bears an important part in breathing, and should be kept free from disease.
The obstruction to nose breathing most frequently met with in childhood, and one that is very common is  Adenoids This disease, which is an enlargement of small glands situated at the opening of the nasal passage with the throat, gives rise to many and sometimes severe troubles.
The condition is recognized by the difficulty the patient manifests in breathing, particularly at night.
The patient sleeps with mouth open and the breathing is noisy.
He is restless and sleep is disturbed.
The disease is usually attended by enlarged tonsils, which is also a frequent cause of earache.
The sufferers make slow progress in school.
Their countenances are affected, and in case of tonsilitis or diphtheria there is an added danger from this trouble.
Rheumatism frequently accompanies these conditions, caused by the absorption of poisons which are generated in the system on account of imperfect aeration of the blood.
The respiratory passages being closed, it is difficult to get sufficient air into the lung*.
As a preventive measure children should be taught to breathe properly and they should be guarded against taking cold.
Also they should be kept outdoors as much as possible, night and day.
Indoor children are more likely to have these diseases because they are more susceptible to colds and catarrhal conditions.
The removal of tonsils and adenoids by surgical operation usually creates a marked improvement in health.
Care of the Teeth.
The care of the teeth from first dentition is of the utmost importance.
Sound and even teeth add much to the expression of the face and to the health of the individual.
Their . 9 chief purpose is for the mastication of food. "Well masticated food, being finely separated and mixed with saliva, is much more easily digested than is possible with the mastication produced by poor teeth.
Good teeth also assist in clear articulation when speaking.
Dental decay is caused largely by acid fermentation in the stomach, and also by particles of food allowed to remain between the teeth.
The teeth should be brushed two or three times daily with soft brush and suitable dentifrice.
Teeth are injured by using them for cracking nuts, biting hard materials, or by great contrasts in temperature.
Very hot or very cold food or drink is liable to crack the enamel and cause decay.
Tartar on the teeth is also very destructive.
A competent dentist should be consulted at least twice a year.
He will remove tartar and fill cavities and greatly prolong the usefulness of the teeth.
Crooked teeth should be straightened in childhood or early youth by a capable practitioner.
Teeth are sometimes made crooked and malformation of the gums occurs by the infantile habit of sucking the thumb or finger.
The habit should be broken without delay.
It is pitiful to see mouths disfigured by bad habits when they might be symmetrical and pleasing.
Listeners can often add life and interest to the lesson as given by the class leaders by adding their own ideas and suggestion to the discussion which should follow each of these health topics.
August HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson II.
Note  The Health Committee, having been fortunately put into possession of a group of leaflets from the Salt Lake City Board of Health, have changed the August