EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON the 17th of March a small number of the
friends of Sister Elizabeth Goddard met at her
residence in the 13th Ward, in honor of her birth-


[Column 1]
day. On that day she reached the age of seventy
years, the allotted time of three score and ten.
Congratulations were extended, and many happy
returns of the day, from all those assembled, with
increased joy and happiness each year. Pleasant
conversation was indulged in during the afternoon,
and the time passed most agreeably, as it always
does when Latter-day Saints meet to do each
other honor.  A bountiful dinner was heartily
partaken of, and after dinner there was singing by
the head of the household, Elder George God-
dard, and his son, Heber, in which several of the
company present joined. Of those present we
remember Mrs. Catherine Horrocks, Mrs. M. Isa-
bella Horne, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, Mrs. Rachel
R. Grant. Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Mrs. Ann Woolley, widow of the late
Edwin D. Woolley, Mr. and Mrs. F. D. Mitchell,
Mr. and Mrs. Will. Dougall, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Lyon, Mr. and Mrs. Orson Woolley, Mrs. Mary
S. Goddard and daughter Nellie. Mrs. Goddard
has occupied the position of Secretary of the
Relief Society in the 13th Ward ever since its
permanent organization, and has most efficiently
performed the arduous duties of that important
office to the satisfaction of the Society. Her life,
in some respects smooth, has been rich with events
of importance, and not wanting in the sombre
shading, that gives tone and interest to the lives of
individuals, and has a tendency to elevate and
strengthen human character. Aside from domes-
tic duties and the care of a large family, thirteen
children in all, and the active responsibility of
Secretary to the Relief Society in her own ward,
Sister Goddard has devoted much time to the
Sabbath School, in which she has been a teacher
many, many years. In fact her life has been
replete with usefulness and good works. As one
of her first acquaintances in the valley, we most
heartily and sincerely congratulate her on having
attained the age of seventy with all her faculties
unimpaired,and with such bright prospects before
her of enjoying the evening of her life with the
husband of her youth, after forty and more years
of wedded happiness.  May Bro. and Sister
Goddard live to celebrate their golden wedding,
and together enjoy all the blessings of the new
and everlasting covenant, is our earnest wish and
desire.
[Column 2]
We should rise up en masse and claim our rights
as guaranteed to us by law. But such a changable
and shaky, bogus law we could put no trust in;
but if we could reach the President, and he would
listen to reason and common sense, which I be-
lieve he would, we would tell him that we are
trying to lead a virtuous, honest, moral, upright
and Christian life, and we offer up our daily pray-
ers to our Heavenly Father, that He will bestow
upon us His Holy Spirit to lead and guide us into
all truth, and that the people of Utah, in the ma-
jority, are a law-abiding people; that they desire
peace, and seek to pursue a course that is honor-
able and upright in the sight of all good men and
women. We would prohibit the use of liquor, to
lead to drunkenness, also gambling places, houses
of ill fame, and many other vices that the law
sustains. Against our own judgment and moral
conduct, our would-be reformers and oppressors
tell us this is civilization, and they say our young
people ought to be free to walk in by and forbidden
paths.
	We agree with Henry Ward Beecher, when he
said, “Bring up your sons and daughters in purity
of life, and let them not mingle with the evil in-
fluence that blots the moral character and cannot
be erased.”  The Latter-day Saints are taking
this side of the question. We will set up our
guide-boards to our youth, and write thereon this
motto: “Keep yourselves pure and unspotted from
the evils  of the world, and walk by the light of
truth, that you may go down to your graves in
honor and peace.” The world has become very
wicked, and her sins have reached up unto the
ears of the God of Sabaoth, and these words are
written on the wall, “Mene, Mene, Tekel, Uphar-
sin.”  The glory of our grand old Republican
Constitution has departed, and the Edmunds-
Tucker bill has burst asunder the national bands,
whose links were made strong by that instrument,
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, which
granted independance of mind and religious free-
dom to all its subjects; and now this partial law
grants rights to other Territories and deprives
Utah of those same rights. Where, oh where can
the justice of these measures be found? No
where, and they will tumble to pieces with the
usage. Changing an impartial law to a partial one
leads to all its attendant evils—coercion, disrespect
for other’s rights, abuse of Federal power, con-
tortion, greed for other’s hard earned means, con-
fusion and disruption of tranquility and peace.
Those who live under these disruptive technicali-
ties have no safety in the pursuit of happiness;
and when a nation takes retrograde steps it is
soon to fall in its greatness.
	I will here prophecy that not many years hence
the present state of affairs will bring about a great
revolution. This nation has risen to its zenith.
The law of God is set aside, and the fundamental
principles of the holy Scriptures are disregarded
as idle tales. Where can there be an excuse
found with Bibles all over the land? How many
are there that read the word of God and act by its
wise counsels and its noble precepts? They can-
not be found in the halls of Congress, for surely
not much of its spirit is infused into their hearts
or they would not clamor so hard for injustice.
	But we have many friends abroad, who look at
things the same as we do, who see destruction in
the whirlpool. We thank them for the offset they
made against unconstitutional measures, and those
who favor Woman Suffrage, such as Judge Black,
Senator Vest, Call, McVeagh, Bennett and many
others, that I do not now call to mind. We also
thank the Memorial Committee of women who
went before the President and spoke in our behalf.
The majority of women of this Territory are
suffragists, and while we exercised the power to
vote we were always treated with the greatest re-
spect at the polls; men and women cast in their
votes and walked peaceably away to their several
homes, and attended to their various occupations

[Column 3]
as on any other day, and the many years that I
have voted I have not seen any brawls, conten-
tions, drunkenness or rabbles, or anything to dis-
turb the peace on election day. We have always
had the right to vote in Church affairs, and voting
has been no new thing to us, to have a voice in
appointments. We have all the rights accorded
us that we desire, and by our own appointment we
vote for those who are men of honor and integrity
of character; our vote is united for a good man,
and not for a mean one.
	The wholesale bill’s ruling as it passed the two
houses of Congress, is taken up by Judge C.
Zane and stretched out to condemn everybody. It
does not stop with the Latter-day Church, but
will condemn all members of churches for its es-
tablished belief in doctrine, if derived or estab-
lished from the Bible—for it upholds plural mar-
riage throughout all its pages, and God declares
Himself the friend of those who practiced it. The
Christian world will have to deny the Bible teach-
ings, or they will abet, counsel and uphold plural
marriage, although they do not practice it, but are
parties knowing that the Bible upholds and sus-
tains this practice. “The rich man lifted up his
eyes in hell and saw Lazarus in Abraham’s
bosom” in a state of happiness. Now, God and
Abraham agreed as touching this matter, and
God has commanded His people to practice it,
and He will be their friend, and His law, made by
Him, will stand forever.
	Latter-day Saints, stand by  it, be firm, and do
not falter. Mr. Zane, are you or any of your as-
sociates believers in the Bible? Did not those
who wrote in it practice, teach and uphold this
doctrine of plural wives? If you do, how can
you conscientiously take that test oath?  I would
advise all believers in the Bible, that do not be-
lieve in it, to be careful how they use the name of
Deity in taking an oath upon such sacred matters
as concern Ecclesiastical church members, that
the law has no legal claim upon. What a mixture
of State and Church, and what a mixed up state
of affairs to hasten the end.
	M. A. M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, March 25th, 1887.


