MY DEAR YOUNG FRIENES:
	How glad I am to meet you all once more
at our meeting. How blest we are, and how
happy we should be! We have kind parents,
who supply all our temporal wants, brothers
and sisters, friends and relatives, with whom
we associate daily, and here we are privileged
to meet once a week, to exchange our thoughts
and ideas, to be a mutual benefit. Each one
can gain some knowledge from the experience
all have had since our last meeting.
	There is no need to fear and tremble, when
we arise to speak, but rather cultivate confi-
dence in ourselves by speaking at every meet-
ing we attend, and by study and research dur-
ing the time we have between our meetings.
The practice of reading is a great help to
speaking. In your reading, be in earnest, al-
ways getting a perfect understanding of what
you read. Telling or writing in our own lan-
guage what we have read is an excellent way
to impress it upon our minds ready for use at
some future time.
	Besides these blessings, we should rejoice in
the knowledge that we have been privileged to
come upon the earth at this favored time, and
that we have been counted worthy to be num-
bered among the Saints of God; we should also
rejoice to know that we have come through the
royal lineage of the new and everlasting coven-
ant, heirs to all the blessings and privileges
belonging thereto.
	Now, we are all over the age of accounta-
bility; God holds each one of us accountable
for our actions. Each one has to form or
make her own character; be it good or bad,
that depends upon each one of us individually.
We are forming a character day by day. The
acts of each day form, as it were, a stone of the
main structure. How careful we should be to
have them good.
	As we pass through life, we wield an influ-
ence either good or bad, and this influence
bears upon our neighbor in a certain degree,
hence we are not only responsible for our ac-
tions, but the influence we may carry with us.
Now is the time we are building the founda-
tion of our character, and it is necessary for
us to know that we have a permanent one, one
that will stand through the trials and tempta-
tions of a life-time.
	Love should fill each heart; kindness should
dictate every action of our life; mercy should
be on our right hand and charity on our left.
The love of God and our fellow beings should
abound in our bosoms all the day long. We
should be slow to anger and quick to forgive.
We should never hold hatred against any one,
and above all, let virtue and chastity be our
crowning pride.
