		ELIZA COLLINS HUNSAKER.

	Thinking that a short sketch of the life of
Eliza Collins Hunsaker would be of interest
to the readers of your noble paper, I
thought I would write you a little of what she
has had to pass through.
	(She was born March 5th, 1817, in Spencer
County, Kentucky, and was the daughter of
Allen Collins and Mary Braady.  She was
married at the early age of 16, January 4th,
1833, to Abraham Hunsaker.  She passed
through all of the persecutions of the Saints,
after she was baptized, which was not until
the 15th of Nov., 1840.  They were driven
with the Saints from that time until they
reached Winter Quarters, where they situated
on a small stream that was called Honey Creek,
about a day’s drive from the main batch of
the Saints.
	She had passed through trials up to the
present date, but now comes the trial of her
faith.  When the call was made for five hun-
dred men to go and fight with Mexico, her hus-
band was among the number.  He said that
when he left her with six small children, the
three oldest  girls, with no one to protect her
and the children but God, that he could not
have felt worse had he been called to lay her
in the cold earth.  While in this condition, to
make matters worse, her relatives, who were
opposed to her joining the Church, wrote to
her and told her that if she would forsake her
religion and return to them they would come
after her.  But like others, true to her faith
and to her God, she would not accept of the
offer.  By the help of God she was able to take
care of her six little children until the return
of her husband.
	One little incident, that happened while he
was on his journey, I will here relate:  He was
feeling bad about the condition he had left his
family in,when a dove alighted upon his head,
then flew by those that were placed by the
priesthood to lead. It was shown to him that
if he would obey counsel he would return
again to his family, and for him to trouble
himself no more about them.  This gave him
relief, and, strange to say, the same dove was
seen around the wagon where his wife was
camped, and one of the little girls said,
"Mother, there is a dove with A. H. on it;
it is from father.” They felt better after this;
it acted as a comforter to both parties.
	One year from that date the dove was seen
in a tree, and Bro. Hancock said, “Here is
Bro. Hunsaker.” At this remark the dove
flew over his head and fluttered, and then went
away.
	The following summer, after her husband’s
return, they came to the valley and settled
at Cottonwood.  He was afterwards called to
go to Carson Valley, where he stopped for a
while, and was then called back.  He finally
settled at Brigham City, where he lived until
about ten or twelve years ago, when he built a
mill on Salt Creek.  His wife afterward moved
there, where she now resides.
	This last summer she made a trip out to her
daughters at Alpine Co., Nevada, where she
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of Mor-
monism and the principle known as the patri-
archal order of marriage.  She came home in
good health, on March 5th, 1887.

[column 2]
	Her children and grandchildren surprised
her on her seventieth birthday.  We had a
very interesting time from 2 p.m. until about
8 in the evening.  She bore her testimony to
her children and grandchildren, who have be-
come very numerous.  She has been the mother
of twelve children, and has sixty-five grand-
children and twenty-six great-grandchildren,
making a total of 103 all told, most of whom
are living.  She said that she had never been
sorry that her lot had been cast with the de-
spised Mormons; she knew that this was the
kingdom of God, and that she had passed
through trials, for which she was thankful, and
that she was glad that her husband had gone
into the principle known as the patriarchal
order of marriage; she knew that it was from
God, and that the Lord would bless all those
who obeyed this order of marriage, and that
she would not be out of it for all the world, for
she knew that God had spoken from heaven,
and although earth and hell may combine, they
will never be able to destroy the people nor
the kingdom of God, and she exhorted her
children to remain faithful, that they might
get the blelsings in store for the faithful.
								REX.


