Y. L. M. I. A., BOX ELDER.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of Box Elder
Stake, convened in the Tabernacle at Brigham 
City, March 9, 1887, a large assembly of young
ladies being present. On the stand were Terri-
torial Supt., Elmina S. Taylor, Stake Presi-
dency, branch presidents and representatives;
also Harriet A. Snow, Prest. of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake.
	After the usual preliminary exercises, em-
bracing roll, minutes and reports from nine of
the various associations, read by the Secretary,
Lydia S. Pierce. introductory remarks were
offered by Supt. Minnie J. Snow.
	The first exercise on the programme was an
essay on health, creditably given by Susan
Hubbard of the Willard Association. Lecture
upon the "Personality of God," by L. S. Pierce,
giving proofs from the Bible, and Phena
Madsen proofs from Church works. The sub-
ject was efficiently treated upon, each showing
a thorough research and comprehension of the
subject. A vocal selection, "Ever Constant,"
was sweetly rendered by Miss Martha Wright
of the 1st Ward, Brigham City.
	Territorial Supt., E. S. Taylor, addressed
the assembly: In remarking upon young
ladies educating themselves to fill useful posi-
tions, advised the study of phonography.
Spoke in high praise of the able manner in
which the preceding lectures were given. Said,
"The fact of our Lord and Savior appearing
and revealing the plan of salvation to Joseph
Smith, an illiterate youth, should ever be an
invincible proof to us of the truth of our re-
ligion." Considered woman's franchise a
privilege given of God. Though now unjustly
denied our rights in this regard, believed they
would be restored in the near future. "It is
natural for women to be just and love morality;

[Column 2]

were they allowed to legislate and create laws
there would be no drinking saloons and other
institutions of immorality and vice in our
midst." Referred to present fulfilment of
prophecy; believed the Mormon girls the
brightest, as a majority, of any class with
whom she had met in the world. Encouraged
them, through prayer and watchfulness, to
fortify themselves against temptation. Ad-
vised the observance of the commandment,
"Honor thy parents," and claim the blessings
promised as a reward. Condemned tight lac-
ing and other practices abusing the laws of
health, and advised the cultivation of good
taste in dress.
	After singing and prayer, conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened by singing, "I'll
serve the Lord while I am young." Prayer
was offered by Prest. Harriet Snow. Con-
densed report of the Stake read, after which
Alvira Rees was presented by Supt. E. S.
Taylor and sustained as Corresponding Secre-
tary for the Stake.
	Subject, "The higher culture of woman,"
was treated upon in a practical and impressive
manner by Coun. Hattie Jensen. "Will the
good old times come back again," was sung by
Misses Ettie and Louisa Madsen of the 3rd
Ward.
	Encouraging and instructive remarks were
made by Avilla Christensen of Bear River
City Ward, Eliza Davis and Ettie Madsen of
the Fourth Ward.
	Sister Taylor expressed her pleasure with
the exercises and manner of presenting the
programme. Offered instructions regarding
the order and laws necessary to be observed in
governing these associations. Dwelt upon the
duties of officers. "Where organizations are
effected, the Stake Supt. of Y. L. M. I. A.
should be present; also the Bishop of the ward.
When difficulties arise in these associations, go
for counsel to the Stake Supt., and should the
matter not be satisfactorily adjusted, appeal to
the Territorial Supt., before engaging the at-
tention of the Priesthood.
	Prest. M. J. Snow expressed a pride and
pleasure in laboring with the intelligent young
ladies comprising these associations, and noting
the rapid improvement and progress apparent
in our midst.
	"All is Well," was sung by the assembly 
with spirit and feeling. The benedictory
prayer was offered by Prest. Marion Peery.
Conference adjourned for three months.
	On the evening preceding our conference
about thirty of the officers of the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Brigham City, some from the neighbor-
ing towns, and a few invited guests, assembled
at the residence of Prest. Minnie J. Snow,
where the evening was pleasantly and profitably
spent. Mrs. Lydia S. Pierce, Misses Ettie
Madsen and Alvira Rees acted as programme
committee, Presidents Fannie Graehl, S. A.
Wrighton, C. Hanson and Freddie Widerborg
as committee on refreshments.
	The exercises commenced with singing. The
following address was given by the Prest:

"My Dear Young Sisters and Co-laborers in the
Cause of Improvement:

	"In obedience to the request of our pro-
gramme committee, I arise to offer a cordial
greeting and a hearty welcome to all present.
	We have gathered this evening to meet with
our beloved and esteemed Prest., Sister Elmina
S. Taylor, and in behalf of the young ladies
of the Mutual Improvement, offer our hospi-
tality and welcome her to our city, to listen to
words of advice, counsel and instruction, that
the Lord shall inspire her to utter; also to par-
take of the blessings of sociability and friend-
ship, increased and intensified by that love
known only to those having a knowledge of
the Gospel. How comforting, beautiful and

[Column 3]

grand are the principles of our holy religion,
and how blessed are we to be chosen from
among the many to labor in the Lord's vine-
yard for the establishment of these glorious
truths in the hearts of the fair daughters of
Israel.
	"We should indeed feel proud of such a
mission, and, sensing its importance, should
ever inspire our hearts, stimulate our actions,
elevate our ambitions and direct our energies,
to prove to our Heavenly Father, angels and
people, that we are worthy of that noble call-
ing.
	"When life's dream is ended, may we leave
behind unmistakable traces of an earnest, ac-
tive and faithful life; then, when meeting our
Savior at His throne of glory, merit the wel-
come plaudit, 'Well done, thou good and faith-
ful servant,, enter thou into the joys of thy
Lord." To realize the fulfillment of this
glorious hope it is necessary that the spirit of
obedience be cultivated, selfishness repressed,
union and confidence be preserved. May the
blessings of God be ours in rich abundance,
the spirit of intelligence and love flow from
heart to heart, making this a season of rejoic-
ing long to be remembered with pleasure and
satisfaction."
	The company now repaired to the dining
room, and surrounded the tastefully spread
tables, with their inviting supplies, generously 
provided by the young ladies.
	Grace was offered by President Harriet A.
Snow, who invoked the blessings of God upon
these His daughters. Our hearts ascended to
God in prayer for Apostle Lorenzo Snow, de-
prived of this, his former home, and the so-
ciety of his family, that peace, comfort and the
blessings of heaven descend upon him accord-
ing to his requirements.
	The ceremony of discussing the tempting
viands came next, and was disposed of most
satisfactorily, every one throwing off all re-
straint and vieing with each other to be agree-
able and contribute to the enjoyment of the
occasion. The bright young faces, the intelli-
gent countenances, beaming with smiles, and
the beautiful surroundings, presented, indeed,
a pretty picture. The supper over, all were
seated in the parlor, when Sister Taylor ad-
dressed the company as follows:
	"I am happy to be here; it does my heart
good to see your bright, happy faces, glowing
with intelligence and truth; also to witness
 your union. I thank you sincerely for the
kindness shown me to-night. It is truly grati-
fying to associate with young ladies on occa-
sions of this kind, who can deport themselves
politely, with propriety, and yet be filled with
joy and mirth. If proper, I would wish that
your lives always be pleasant and happy, and
your trials very light. May God watch over
you and keep you pure."
	The rest of the evening was devoted to
speeches, testimonies, reading, interspersed with
vocal and instrumental music, until a late hour,
when ended a very interesting occasion, par-
ticularly remarkable for the freedom and sweet
spirit of genuine good will that characterized
every feature of the entertainment.
	Respectfully,
