EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 19th of March, 1887, being the 70th
birthday of the President of the Relief Society
of Santaquin, Sister Elizabeth J. Stickney,
the members of the Society assembled at the
school house at 2 o'clock p.m., in honor of the
occasion, together with the Bishop and Coun-
selors and some of the most prominent brethren
of the place.
	Our President, with the older ladies, seated
in a large circle round the stove, chatting gaily,
looked very beautiful, while the younger por-
tion participated in the dance for a short time,
when the following address was read by Bro.
Eli Openshaw:
	To Mrs. Elizabeth Stickney, President of the
		Relief Society of Santaquin:

	DEAR SISTER:—By the counsel of our
Bishop and Counselors, we, the Relief Society
of Santaquin, have met with you to-day for
the purpose of celebrating this your seventieth
birthday.  It is a good old age, but yet we
hope you may live to see many happy returns
of the day
	You have now been President of the Relief
Society of Santaquin eighteen years and six
months.  Your labors in that capacity have
been arduous and unceasing.  Your charitable
disposition has always made you a friend to
the poor, the sick and the aged; many there
are who can testify of your care for them, and
will always pray for your welfare in this life
and that which is to come.
	As a financier, you connot be surpassed.
That you have handled the funds entrusted to
your care with interest for the benefit of the
Society, has been fully realized and duly ap-
preciated by us all.
	We therefore wish to return unto you our
heartfelt thanks for the honorable discharge of
your duties, and ever pray that long life may
be given you, and that you may retain your
powers of mind, so that you may continue to
be our elect lady for many years to come.
	Signed in behalf of the Relief Society of
Santaquin,			ELIZABETH WALL,	
					SARAH J. HALLADAY.
					BETTIE BOSS,
					ANN J. STICKNEY,
					ELIZABETH OPENSHAW.
					RENDENA OLSON,
			Committee of arrangements.

	Prest. Stickney responded to it, and ad-
dressed the assembly for a short time, thanking
the sisters for their kindness and appreciation
of her labors, and bearing a strong testimony
to the work of God.	
	Then there was dancing again until half
past four o'clock, when a bountiful repast was
partaken of, and an intermission taken for one
hour, when the company again returned to en-
joy a very pleasant and agreeable evening to-
gether, consisting of dancing, interspersed with
several pieces of poetry, which had been com-
posed for the occasion.  Our Prest. entertained
the company by dancing two hornpipes, which
she executed very gracefully.  She was pre-
sented with a sum of money, and the names of
the donors were read.  Refreshments were
served again during the evening, and the party
was dismissed at eleven o'clock.  All seemed
highly pleased, as it had been a day long to
be remembered in Santiquin.
