							JANETTE PATON.


[Column 1]
		BIBLE PROPHECY.
	Isaiah, chapter x: “Woe! unto them that
decree unrighteous decrees, and that write
grieviousness which they have prescribed to
turn away the needy from judgment, and to
take away the rights from the poor of my
people, that widows may be their prey and
that they may rob the fatherless!”
	“And what will ye do in the day of visita-
tion and in the desolation which will come
from afar?  To whom will ye flee for help,
and where will ye leave your glory?”
	The above to the Latter-day Saints needs no
comments, for they fully know that through
the unrighteous decrees known as the Edmunds
and Edmunds-Tucker bills, that the needy
have been turned away from judgment, for how
many times have our brethren and sisters
gone to the rulers of this nation and plead
their cause, for they were in need of justice,
and does not this unrighteous decree take away
the rights from the poor of this people, and are
not children left without their fathers, and
robbed of the necessary support that their
fathers have earned for them?  Surely they do
rob the fatherless, when kind fathers are
snatched from their wives and children and
thrust into prison, and their property sold to
pay an unlawful fine.  And were not the
women the wives of those men, true to their
religion and their God they would surely fall
a prey to those robbers, who are trying to rob
them of the loving care and protection of their
husbands, thinking that they might thereby
drag them into the mire that thousands of
women are degraded into who live much nearer
to Senator Edmunds and other great men of
the world, than do the Mormon women, but
their object will fail here, for the Mormon
women are virtuous and God-fearing; they
have entered into their marriage relations in
obedience to the commandment of God, and
they are willing to leave the outcome in His
hands, for they know that the hand of the
Lord is in this present persecution, that He is
only using His enemies as a tool wherewith to
purify His people, for He says in the same
chapter, verse 12, “Wherefore, it shall come
to pass, that when the Lord hath performed
His whole work upon Mount Zion and on
Jerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the stout
heart of the king of Assyria, and the glory of
his high looks.”
	“For he saith, By the strength of my hand
have I done it, and by my wisdom, for I am
prudent, and I have removed the bounds of the
people, and I have robbed their treasures, and
I have put down the inhabitants like a valiant
man, and my hand hath found as a nest the
riches of the people; and as one gathered eggs
that are left, have gathered all the earth (all
they have) and there was none that moved
the wing, or opened the mouth or peeped.”
	The present Edmunds-Tucker bill having
become a law, we will see the above prophecy
fulfilled, for who is so blind that they cannot
see that it is a plan to rob the treasures of the
people; but still in this we will acknowledge
the hand of God, as in another prophecy of
Isaiah He plainly warns the church of what
shall befall them because of pride; and the
Lord requires His people to be humble, and a
proud heart is not pleasing to Him, and yet
He says in the same chapter, 15th verse: “Shall

[Column Two]
the axe boast itself against him that heweth
therewith? or shall the saw magnify itself
against him that shaketh it?” etc.  He is doing
this work, although we sometimes think that
some very rough tools are being made use of;
the Lord holds them with a rein, and they will
go just as far as He will let them and no
farther.  In the same chapter, 24th verse:
“Therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, my
people that dwell in Zion be not afraid of the
Assyrian; he shall smite thee with a rod; and
shall lift up his staff against thee after the
manner of Egypt, for yet a very little while,
and the indignation shall cease, and mine anger
in their destruction, and the Lord of Hosts
shall stir up a scourge for him according to
the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb,
and as his rod was upon the sea, so shall he
lift it up after the manner of Egypt, and it
shall come to pass in that day that his burden
shall be taken from off thy shoulder, and his
yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall be
destroyed because of the anointing.”
	There are many things to which the Saints
can look forward to for comfort in this trying
time, and let us pray that God will hasten the
day when the yoke will be destroyed, and let
us all strive to stand faithful until that time
comes, when the Lord’s anointed will come out
of their hiding places, and from within prison
walls, and will rejoice with their wives and
children, and again teach this glorious plan of
life and salvation to the children of men, and
we will see the Canaanites, that they will no
longer ask for help from their enemies, but, “It
shall come to pass in that day that the remnant
of Israel and such as are escaped of the house
of Jacob will no more stay upon him that 
smote them but will stay upon the Holy One
of Israel in truth.” And the kingdom shall
grow, and the little stone which Daniel saw
will roll until it fills the whole earth, for God
will make room for it, and it will break  in
pieces all other kingdoms.
	The Constitution of the United States has
already been broken upon it, and the senate
and representative men of this nation are di-
vided in their opinions and judgment, and
their sense of justice is broken and divided be-
cause of it, and they will be confused and their
minds darkened and troubled, and men’s hearts
shall fail them, and the inhabitants of the
earth will be shaken and destroyed.  The Lord
will open up a passage for His people, and they
will be delivered from bondage, even as he
opened up a passage through the Red Sea for
His people in ancient days.  A deliverer will
the Lord prepare for His people, “And the
Spirit of the Lord will rest upon him, and the
spirit of wisdom and of understanding, the
spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of
knowledge and the fear of the Lord; and shall
make him quick of understanding in the fear
of the Lord, and he shall not judge after the
sight of his eyes, neither reprove after the
hearing of his ears; but with righteousness
shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity
for the meek of the earth, and he shall smite
the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with
the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.”
	With joy the Saints look forth to that day,
which is nigh at hand, for the Lord has said,
“Though the heavens and the earth pass away,
my words will not pass away.”
				SOMANTHIA T. BOISE.
Manassa, Colorado,


