M. J. TANNER.

Continued.

	When we got back to our room, we found
our trunks there. We dressed and went for a
walk up Broadway. It being Sunday morning
the streets were quiet and business houses
closed; still it was very pleasant, and many
people were stirring. We had been traveling
so long we had lost our reckoning, and could
hardly realize that it was Sunday.
	New York is much as we expected to see it.
but it gives one very much the idea of the old
song:
	"We cannot see the city for the houses."
All houses; houses everywhere; not a spot of
ground to put your foot on. Such high houses;
from five to seven stories high; no chance to
see out but to look up to the sky, and even that
is being appropriated, seemingly, for when peo-
ple can no longer build out they build up.
	On our return we concluded to visit Sister
Harrison. We went to the office and inquired
for her room. The clerk turned to the direc-
tory, and informed us that Mrs. Harrison and
Mrs. Sharp had No. 828. We stepped on the
elevator and asked for room 828. We were
taken up seven stairs, and directed which way
to go. We followed the numbers on the doors
until we found 828. Here we found our
friends in a very pleasant room, overlooking
the street, as also many other houses. They
take their meals at the restaurant, and we
might have lived in the same house for weeks
and never met. It is like a small city laid off
and divided by halls and corridors, with stairs
leading in every direction. We could go up
and down by stairs or elevator. Our friends
had been to church, and we were sorry we did
not go with them. We all met in Bro. Hart's
room and spent the evening. Quite a number
of our old friends were there, and it seemed
pleasant to meet so many among strangers.
	N. Y.,  Monday, April 20. Rested well,
but got up this morning with a headache.
Went down to breakfast; found ourselves late.
Were a little surprised, but were shown to a 
smaller dining room, where we were nicely
waited on. On comparing time, I found my
watch an hour slow. I had forgotten that New
York time was three hours ahead of us. After
breakfast we went for a walk on Broadway.
We went a long way, and got back very tired,
to find a lady wating for me in the Parlor. On
going in I found it was my cousin, Mrs. Kim-
ball. I packed my trunk and she took me
home with her.
	The method of traveling was quite new to
me. We went in a buss, I think they are
called, to the ferry. We crossed the river on
a steam ferry-boat, which I enjoyed very much;
then we took a street car to her home. It is
about eight miles from the hotel. It is on
Long Island, and is called Williamsburg,
though it seems to me a continuation of the
same city. It is now incorporated in Brooklyn
and is called "Eastern District."
	The streets are paved with rock, and packed
with vehicles of all kinds, and the noise is so
great that we can scarcely hear each other
speak. Everything is so strange, I should be
frightened without a guide. I am warmly
welcomed by my cousin’s family, four hand-
some, black-eyed boys, from thirteen to twenty-
four years of age. Her husband is away, but
will be home in a few days. We are nice and
quiet, but I am so tired, so tired; the house
seems turning about, and the grinding noise
seems running through me from my fingers to
my toes. I wonder if I shall ever feel calm
again.
	Williamsburg, Tuesday, April 21. Rested
some last night, but cannot get over being tired;

[Column 2]
every nerve seems frizzling and grinding. Mrs.
Kimball is a great talker, as well as myself,
and we have so much to say. In the evening
we walk out to look at the stores by gaslight;
the streets are so light that everything looks
lovely. We take a street car and ride home,
and spend the evening in conversation until
late.
	Wednesday, April 22nd. Feel somewhat
rested, and go for a visit to the Brooklyn
Bridge. We ride over on a steam car, fare
three cents; walk back, fare one cent. It is a 
long walk, a mile and a quarter, but it is very
pleasant, and we have such a fine view of the
country, and river, which is dotted with boats
of all kinds, from the tiny row boat, tossing
about, to the ship. The bridge not only crosses
the river, but spans over the city for a long
distance, passing over houses, six and seven
stories high.
	Williamsburg, Sunday, April.25th. Raining
this morning. We had proposed to hear the
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher to-day, but it has
rained all day and we could not go, but spent
our time talking and reading Scripture. My
friends have great curiosity about our faith,
and are a little surprised to hear it defended
on a scriptural basis. We have some very in-
teresting arguments.
	I have visited several points of interest in
the last few days, among which is the water-
works, or reservoir, which supplies water for
the city. It is a large pond or basin, nicely
walled in with an iron fence around it; at a
little distance is another fence, making an en-
closure, inside of which the keeper lives, and
no living thing is allowed inside the enclosure.
No person can go inside the enclosure without
permission. There seems little danger of dead
animals or anything of the kind getting into
the water, which is conducted through pipes to
all parts of the city, and each house is fur-
nished with water in every story; also pipes to
carry off sewerage, which are laid below the
water mains.  Everything is so complete. The
streets are swept, and all the dirt carried off
every few days. The dust and ashes of the
houses are collected in barrels, which are
emptied and carried away by men whose busi-
ness it is, and no garbage is allowed in the ash
barrels, as it is used in filling up low places,
and vegetable decay would breed miasma. It
looked strange to see cold victuals and scraps
from the table thrown into the fire and burned,
but when it was explained to me that such
things would make a litter if thrown in the
back yard, and perhaps a disagreeable odor, as
well as attract cats and dogs, to the discomfort
of the people, I could readily see that circum-
stances altered cases.
	A large proportion of the people live in
rented houses. Some of the houses are built
with two or three stories and a basement, with
a small back yard for clothes line etc., and a
small yard in front. The sidewalks are paved
with flagstones, and each one is required to
keep his own sidewalk clean.
	Some houses are built in "flats," on the
French plan, five or six stories high, a complete
suit of rooms in each story, rent ranging ac-
cording to the height. Three families live one
above another. As a consequence, people find
it unpleasant to have many children in a house.
The first question from the landlord is, "Have
you children?" "Are they boys or girls?" If
girls, "have they beaux?" "Do you keep ser-
vants?" If these questions are answered satis-
factorily, and you can pay the price demanded,
you may rent the house if it suits you. If the
family is too large, or the children too small, if
you have a baby, or play the piano, or run a sew-
ing machine, it is difficult to procure a house.
	A young couple commence housekeeping
and when a baby comes they are liable to be
requested to change their quarters. Children,
then,are a constant source of anxiety, and every

[Column 3]
advent is looked upon with a species of con-
sternation. Such a condition naturally makes
children unwelcome, and it must take great
efforts of patience and goodwill to live so
closely packed together. Every effort is made
to secure cleanliness and good order. Houses
are not so high in Brooklyn and Williamsburg
as in New York.


