	BOX ELDER STAKE.
	Condensed report of the quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake,
which convened at 10 o’clock on the 8th of
March, in the Tabernacle, Brigham City,
Sister Harriet A. Snow presiding. Editor
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells, was on the stand, and the Stake
Board and representatives from the various
branches of the R. S. of the Stake. After
singing, prayer was offered by Coun. Susannah
T. Booth.
    Prest. H. A. Snow made some opening re-
marks.
    Sister Annie Wixom was nominated Secre-
tary pro tem. Roll called. Minutes of pre-
vious conference were read and accepted; also
the reports from the different branches.
	Prest. H. A. Snow: “I feel thankful to be
here, and see so many of my sisters present;
we want to be very particular in our duties,
that our associations may be in perfect order.
We cannot vote any more, but one loss is one
little gain; we can advocate the principle of
celestial marriage. Knowledge will give us
confidence in ourselves; we can acquire this by
keeping the commandments of the Lord in
private and in public. The daughters of Zion
have a work to perform, and if we are faithful
to our privileges we will be a power in Zion, a
help to the brethren. That we may grow in
grace and knowledge is my prayer.
    Sister E. B. Wells: “My beloved sisters and
brethren, I am happy to be here with you. I
have enjoyed the reading of the minutes and
reports. Through these organizations, that
have been established in our midst, we become
acquainted with each other’s condition. No
matter where you are, if you are zealous in
good works, and energetic in the performance
of duties, you will receive wisdom and knowl-
edge.” Referred to the sentiments expressed
by senators on our question, and spoke in re-
gard to our present circumstances, and of hav-
ing confidence in each other, and not judging
each other hastily; said these days reminded
her of the days of Nauvoo. “We must not
say all we think; it is better to stop and con-

[Column 3]
sider before speaking and answering questions,
and we cannot be too careful; we must seek for
wisdom in all our ways. We who have been
interested in the Relief Society can testify that
it has been one of the greatest educational
privileges we have ever enjoyed; I am sure I 
can. I think if there ever was a people on
the face of the earth who are practical as well
as spiritual, they may be found in the Relief
Society. The time has come when women are
remembered, and I believe in the future they
and their good works will be remembered
more than in the past. Things are not so bad
as they might be; if we keep the Spirit of the
Gospel, the Spirit of the Lord, our trials will
not be so heavy as we anticipate. We shall
endure unto the end if we keep that Spirit,
and it is to those who endure that the reward
is given.”
Singing, “Zion stands with hills surrounded.”
Benediction. Adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session: Sister E. S. Taylor had
arrived, and was with us.  After the opening
exercises, the Secretary read the condensed re-
port, also the report of the Stake treasury.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker of Honeyville:
“We are living in a great day; many have de-
sired to live in this dispensation. I feel grate-
ful that we have passed through so many
scenes, and are still numbered among the Lat-
ter-day Saints. It is well for us to look to our-
selves, and see if we are standing on the right
foundation.”
Sister M. A. Hubbard: “We have great rea-
son to rejoice if we possess the Spirit of the
Lord while passing through every scene; I re-
joice in the principles of the Gospel. We
have everything to encourage us. Let us al-
ways feel subject to the Priesthood, cherish and
sustain them.
	Sister E. B. Wells said: “In regard to the
world, there never was more inquiring con-
cerning this people than at the present time."
Spoke eloquently in regard to having all the
laws tested. Said, “If those who feel weak
will bear their testimony, it will strengthen
them. We should uphold and sustain the
Priesthood. I believe it is every one's privil-
ege to have that Spirit within that will direct
them through all places and show them the
truth. Some say, ‘I have a strong testimony,
but cannot give it.’ ” She believed it necessary
to testify for the good of others. I can testify
that I have lived in the principle of plural
marriage many years, and enjoy the associa-
tion and blessing attending it. No condition is
more conducive to the cultivation of human
character, to the putting away of selfishness
and disciplining one’s self. To love a sister-
wife is indeed noble. We shall enjoy the sweet
Spirit of the Lord, and our trials will be sancti-
fied for our good if we go through them with-
out murmuring and complaining, but if we
always murmur, the Spirit of the Lord will
leave us.” Encouraged the sisters to bear
their testimony to the world, to write for the
EXPONENT. “I have always said from the be-
ginning of this persecution, that we will be
pretty well instructed in law and government
before we get through. I believe it is just as
necessary that women should understand princi-
ple, and be able to answer any question proper-
ly, as it is that our brethren should, who go out 
to preach the Gospel. Those who come here of
late, generally expect us to be nearly perfect;
if we are not, we certainly are striving to be.
My prayer is that we may gain the victory."
Prest. E. S. Taylor: "I think there is one
good thing accomplished by this persecution,
that of drawing the Saints together; no matter,
as long as we have the love of the Gospel we
are united; they may put our brethren in
prison, but as long as it tends to purge out the
hypocrite of Zion I think we do not need to
fear our enemies, but more false brethren and
false sisters. Some say we are given to pride


[Column 1]

each one can examine themselves. The great-
est gift is charity; it covereth a multitude of
sins; we must do to others as we would that
they should do to us. No one can do the work
for us; each one has to do her part, and stand
on her own individuality; I thank God for it.
Every good act the Lord will reward, for He
is just; as Sister Wells said, 'If we always had
justice we should not be tried at all.'" Spoke
of the beauty of wives putting themselves into
each other's place; "do to others as you would
like to be done by; the same with those who
have help, and those who work for others; we
are all selfish, but we should cultivate the
Spirit of Christ. Let us be thankful if we
understand principles better than others, and
teach and have charity for those who don't.
As Sister Wells said, 'Try to get the spirit of
every principle.' When we get so firmly estab-
lished, that we have a love of it, we shall see
the beauty of the principle of plural marriage;
we shall feel that Father is at the helm,
full of mercy and love; let us kiss the rod
whenever we are smitten."
	Emilia D. Madsen made a few remarks:
referred to the subject of doing good to others,
and quoted the Savior's words, "Some have en-
tertained angels unawares," ect.; also, "Inas-
much as ye have done it unto one of these
little ones, ye have done it unto me," and gave
excellent advice on these two subjects.
	Sister Peery of Three Mile Creek: "I think
we have had a feast; what are we without the
Spirit of the Lord? He is a Father and
friend in very deed; let us be humble and
prayerful; He knoweth the desire of our
heart."
	Sister Wixom and Sister Dewey each spoke
a short time.
	Prest. Harriet Snow: "I feel thankful for
this conference, and what has been said; I wish
we had time to hear from all the presidents."
	Singing, "How firm a foundation." Bene-
diction by Coun. Olivia Widerborg.
