NOTES AND NEWS.

	The large numbers in which women are
registering to vote under the new municipal
suffrage law in Kansas ought to set at rest the
fear that women would not use the suffrage if
they had it. The women voted at the primary
elections on March 6, and there was not the
slightest disturbance. One thousand of the
leading women of Leavenworth registered
within two days.
	The U. S. District Attorney for Washington
Territory recommends the women to go on vot-
ing as usual, and if refused, to take out a man-
damus to compel acceptance to their votes.
The validity of the woman suffrage law having
been repeatedly affirmed by several Supreme
Court decisions before the adverse decision by
only two of the judges. There is great doubt
whether the adverse decision will be sustained
by the full bench.
	Twenty-seven years ago, Henry Ward
Beecher, in a powerful lecture on woman
suffrage, predicted that one of the first good
results of the reform would be the removal of
the polling places to more respectable quarters,
and the increased order and civility of elec-
tions. The Republican Convention, which met
at Topeka, Kansas, on March  7, expressed a 
cordial welcome to the newly enfranchised
ladies, and adopted a series of resolutions, en-
titled, "For the new voters," favoring safety
and convenience of voters at the polls, and
recommending their removal to more respect-
able locations. They also declare that no
woman whose political duties call her on the
street on election day shall be subjected to any
inconvenience, or have any ticket thrust into
her hand unless she asks for it. The Boston
Traveler says: "This view of what is really
the practical effect of woman suffrage is inter-
esting, and the advocates of political enfran-
chisement for women will be more than mortal
if they can refrain from airs of triumph in
this fulfilment of their long prophesies as to
the better state of affairs when women go to
the polls."—Ex.


They talk about a woman’s sphere
	As though it had a limit:
There’s not a place in earth or heaven,
There’s not a task to mankind given,
There’s not a blessing or a woe,
There’s not a whispered yes or no,
There's not a life, or death or birth,
That has a feather’s weight of worth,
	Without a woman in it.


