RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Thursday, March 17th, Mrs. M. I.
Horne presiding. Present on the stand were Mrs.
B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Mrs. M. W.
Snow, and Mrs. Mary Pitchforth of Nephi, Prest.
of the Relief Society in Juab Stake. After sing-
ing, prayer was offered by Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
Continued with singing. Roll of presidents called;
23 presidents, 3 counselors and 2 secretaries re-
sponded.  Minutes and Stake report read and
accepted.
	Opening remarks by Sister Pitchforth; subjects,
care of the needy, the edification to be gained by
attending our meetings, guarding our speech,
special protection and guidance of our children,
the need of keeping all commandments given, and
other interesting topics.
	Prest. Horne urged the necessity of perfect re-
ports and promptness in forwarding them to the
Stake Secretary. Urged the-importance of home
industries, and advised the sisters to see to the
setting out and cultivating mulberry trees, that we
might make our own silk. “We will likely have
to depend on home made clothing. We are largely
advertised to the world through this persecution.”
Spoke of the storing of grain, for many would
come to Zion for bread. Thought from the re-
ports that the branches were improving tem-
porally.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball thought the Relief Society
should foster education.  “Pick up some little girl
that has a taste for teaching, and let her gather
some of the little children from the street around
her, it will do good.” Spoke of the Kindergarten
and the Woman’s Home, and said, “We are able
to take care of our own people;” made many other
excellent remarks.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke of the peace we enjoy;
thought we should pray for wisdom, and spoke of
her visit to the Tooele Conference with Sister
Lucy W. Kimball, where they had held seven
meetings and administered to the sick. She felt
the revelation given four years ago to President
Taylor was just as much binding upon us as any
other, “and we should help our husbands to set
our houses in order.”
	Mrs. Rachel R. Grant had been spending the
winter in St. George, and had visited around that
Stake considerably, and found the organizations
in good order. Thought we had nothing to fear
from our enemies. “Let us be firm and faithful,
and cultivate a spirit of love and charity one to
another.”
	Adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing. Benediction
pronounced by Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m.:  Opened with sing-
ing. Prayer by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox. Continued
with singing. Remarks by Mrs. M. W. Snow:
She loved to hear the work and kingdom of God
defended by the sisters.  Spoke upon prayer,
wisdom, kindness and faith, obedience and hu-
mility; thought that we should exercise our faith,

[Column 2]
that wisdom might rest down upon the Presidency
and Apostles of the Church in this important
time in our history. 		
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor gave an interesting account
of her visit to Box Elder Stake. Thought we
were too prone to watch each other. “We should
watch ourselves and try to be charitable, for we all
have faults; none are perfect. We should be
very careful not to try and stretch others to fit our
iron bedstead, and remember we are all differently
made; some are weak and some are strong; we
all vary in disposition; God does not want His
people to be cast down; let us be cheerful and
trusting, and make others happy wherever we go.
* * *	Let us practice all the teachings
in Christ’s Sermon on the Mount, that will give
us strength and power to be faithful unto the
end.”
	Mrs, Agnes Swartz spoke of the blessings we
enjoy; said the Lord would try us to see what we
would do; “we expect to be tried; it is good to be
tried.” Prayed the blessings of the Lord to rest
upon His Saints, and asked God to bless Sister
Horne and all that were trying to do some good.
	Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball spoke of her recent re-
turn from the Temple, and the beautiful influence
there; it was wonderful to see the interest taken
in the work for the dead. Related incidents con-
cerning the Prophet Joseph, when in prison and
in chains, and how he rebuked the wicked, and
they ceased their blasphemy, and he had peace
during the remainder of the night. Made other
edifying remarks, and added, “No matter what we
suffer, let us acknowledge the hand of God in all
things.”
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox spoke of the performance
of duty with an eye single to the glory of God.
Urged us to seek for wisdom, that we might be
able to perform all our duties in righteousness.
	Mrs. C. Smith, Prest. of Draper R. S., Mrs.		
Mary Porter, of the Granger R. S. and Mrs.
Sarah Gibson, Prest. of the R. S. of Sugar
House, each spoke a few minutes, bearing testi-
mony to the truth, and also to the improvement
being made in their respective wards.
	Mrs. M. Pitchforth spoke of our persecutions,
and upon the principle of plural marriage. Said,
“We should never allow our feelings to cause us
to speak against this order. The Gospel helps
the people to improve in their manners, for our
religion teaches us true politeness. It is wrong
for our children to be sent to outside schools, for
the influence there is against the Gospel. Save
your children; keep them in the truth.”
	Mrs. Emma Terry rejoiced that-she had been
born and reared in the Church as she had not the
teachings and old traditions to contend with; she
was sure the Lord would come out of his hiding-
place and rescue us from our enemies. “Plural
marriage is a blessing to all who receive it.”
Spoke of setting good examples, and of many
good things, in an intelligent and edifying manner.
	Mrs. Ann Griffiths spoke feelingly of her ex-
periences in times of trial and of drivings from
our homes, and said many excellent things.
	The Secretary of the Stake, Mrs. E. Howard,
said she hoped all would assemble as often as 
they could to obtain spiritual food; referred to
other important subjects, and closed by repeating
the golden rule, and said, “do not let us esteem
ourselves above others.”
	Prest. Horne made closing remarks, referring to
the most important subjects in an impressive man-
ner, and thought each Relief Society should have
funds on hand if necessary to send one represen-
tative at least to attend the conference. Each
branch should contribute 50 cts. a year to the
contingent fund. Urged the sisters to care for the
sick and the needy, to cooperate with those who
have charge of the Primaries and Sabbath Sohools.
to teach by example as well as precept, to keep
the children out of the streets at night, to culti-
vate every virtue and try to have faith for the

[Column 3]
healing of the sick among us. Touched upon al-
most everything that would promote our happiness
peace and prosperity as a people.
	Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing, “Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.” Benediction by Counselor E. S. Tay-
lor. 
	Condensed from the minutes of Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard, Relief Society Stake Secretary.
	Y. L. M. I. A.
	Condensed minutes of the Conference of the
Y. L. M. I: A. of this Stake, held March 18, in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Coun. M. E.
Dougall presiding. Present on the stand were
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Prest. of the Central Board,
and her Counselors, Mrs. M. Y. Taylor and Mrs.
M. H. Tingey, also Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Prest.
B. W. Smith, Dr. M. C. Shipp, Mrs. Lillie
Freeze and others. Excellent singing by the 19th
Ward choir. Roll called a majority of the Asso-
ciation reported, minutes of previous conference
were read. The morning session was principally
occupied in reading the statistical reports of the
associations. Remarks were made by Mrs. J. C.
Howe, Mrs Z. G. Eardly, Mrs. E. C. Clawson,
Mrs C. H. Clayton, Mrs. M. Irvine, Mrs. B. W.
Smith, Mrs. L. Freeze, Miss G. Sansome and 
Mrs. Alice Kimball; each bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the work in which we
are engaged, and exhorted the young ladies to
qualify themselves for the great future in store for
them; to study the scrtpture and be able to teach
them to their children; to read good books, and
thereby gain pure and noble thoughts; to attend
good meetings and obtain the Spirit of God,which
is always found there; to be prayerful and obedi-
ent to the commandments of God, and to His
revelations, which have been given expressly to
this people; in short, to so conduct themselves as
to be patterns of nobleness and virtue.
	During the morning session the revelation given 
four years ago to this people through the revela-
tor President Taylor, was read, and was listened
to with rapt attention.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing
prayer by Mrs. Erickson.	
	Afternoon Session: After singing prayer was
offered by Mrs Mary P. Young. Mrs. Dougall
gave the report of the Stake.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp then addressed the meeting;
spoke of charity, urged the young to avoid criti-
cising people’s actions, for such criticisms would
not be just, as we do not understand the motives;
also exhorted them to use their influence for the
good of society. Spoke of tithing and the bless-
ings promised to those who observe that law, and
alluded to other important subjects.
	Mrs. Kimball followed up the subjects intro-
duced by Dr. Shipp and referred to some of her
early experiences in the Church.
	President Elmina S. Taylor then addressed the
meeting in an impressive manner; among other
subjects, spoke upon the home; urged them to
cultivate love for the beautiful, “and even though
the home be a humble one,it can be a most charm-
ing place.” Advised the young ladies to cultivate
faith, and upon other matters of importance.
	Other speakers were Miss Sarah Eddington,
Mrs. Jane Freeze, Coun. M. Y. Dongall, Mrs.
Parkinson, Prest of the Y. L. of Oneida Stake.
Each of these sisters bore faithful testimonies,
and referred to the subjects already mentioned.
	A letter written to the Conference by the Stake
President of Y. L., Mrs. M. A. Freeze, was read,
after which the Conference adjourned for three
months,with singing and prayer.


