EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Some minutes of conferences, and other matter
of that kind, has been laid by until another issue,
as we cannot well devote more than one page of
each paper to reports of organizations.
	A THEATRICAL entertainment is to be given at
the theatre by the Old Folks' Committee, on Fri-
day afternoon, a matinee, and also in the evening.
"Confusion" is the title of the piece to be pre-
sented, and it will be sure to please the old folks,
as it is very showy in stage appointments, and not
wanting in character acting.
	THE Old Folks' Committee are energetic work-
ers, and deserve to be popular, as they certainly
are, for the interest they manifest, and the pains
they take to please and happify those who have
not the opportunity, for various reasons, of asso-
ciating socially and partaking of the enjoyments
and amusements of life, like those who are younger
and stronger physically. Success to the Old
Folks Committee and "blessings on them," for the
good they have done, and the happiness they have
given to the aged fathers and mothers in Israel,
widows and orphans. Let the good work con-
tinue, for it is a praiseworthy one.
	TO the subscribers of the EXPONENT we wish to
state that the pictures of Mother Smith, promised
during the holidays, have not yet been received
from New York, where the work had to be done

[Column 2]

but we have ordered them by express, which wil
bring them quicker and safer than coming by
freight, and as soon as they arrive we will forward
them to the persons for whom intended. It will
take some time to mail so many carefully, and in
places where there is an agent it will be more con-
venient to send all together to her for distribution,
but where single copies are taken, each one will
have to be put up and mailed separately. Care
will be taken that the picture may not be creased or
defaced in any way. We are very sorry that they
are not ready to issue with this number of the
paper, but on our part it is wholly unavoidable.
	CHRISTMAS preparations are being made by the
merchants and shopkeepers, and the great display
of holiday goods gives the city a decidedly cheer-
ful and business like appearance. Christmas trees
and holly are for sale in various parts of the town,
and the greengrocers and butchers seem to have
taken special pains to decorate, and they have not
failed in the attempt, either. The large window
in the Z. C. M. I. makes a fine show in the grocery
department, and Savage's Art Bazar makes an ele-
gant and artistic showing of books, pictures and
fancy goods in his line. Dwyer has a very elabor-
ate assortment of toys and little articles of every
sort for Christmas gifts, as well as an excellent
variety of books, well chosen, and appropriate
for holiday presents, and a full and complete stock
of goods, which cannot fail to give satisfaction to
the purchasers. Pembroke has a fine variety also
of this style of goods, and however fastidious the
purchaser may be, he will be able to choose from
the large assortment of goods and notions in Salt
Lake. Teasdel's the Eagle House, always makes
a fine display of goods at very reasonable prices,
and they serve their customers with the utmost
politeness. Their Christmas decorating and orna-
menting is neat and in good taste, and one is sure
of a good article if purchased at this very popular
house. Whatever is wished, the one thing need-
ful is the means, and it is better to be economical
even in the matter of giving, as it is not so much
the gift itself one esteems, as the spirit and feeling
that accompanies it. In the primitive days in the
valley, when everything was home made, and the
children played with rag dolls almost exclusively,
they were quite as happy and contented as the
little folks are now with the variety of toys of all
kinds, and so much candy and sweetmeats.


