Y. L. M. I. A.
	(Synopsis of minutes of Y. L. M. I. A. Con-
ference of this Stake of Zion, held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Dec. 10, 1886, Coun.
M. Y. Dougall presiding.) After the usual
opening exercises, reports of the several asso-
ciations were given. Nearly every association
in the city was represented, but very few of
those in the country, probably on account of
the disagreeable weather. The reports plainly
showed that the young people were taking
more interest in their meetings than ever be-
fore; in the programmes for exercises, as given,
there is a decided preference shown for testi-
mony meetings, and to aid those who are diffi-
dent in speaking subjects are often given, and
the members are allowed to write their
thoughts and read them. Twelve manuscript
papers were reported.
	The Stake Board was represented by Coun.
Nellie Colebrook, who expressed her pleasure 
at the condition of the Officers' meetings; there
was now a larger attendance than had ever
been before.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt gave the financial report of
the Stake.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor explained the use of the
Stake fund, and urged the presidents to have
their accounts kept accurately. Meeting ad-
journed till 2 p.m. with singing and prayer.
(Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
Coun. Dougall made the opening address. She
spoke of never having had  any marvelous
manifestations to convince her that this is the
work of God, but many little things tended to
prove the truth of this Gospel, and that she
now feels it in her inmost soul.
	This subject of testimonies was followed by
the other speakers, Mrs. Mattie H. Tingey and
Mrs. Maggie Y. Taylor, who felt that they
daily received manifestations to assure them
of the divinity of this work, but thought we
were apt to be careless and overlook them.)
	Mrs. B. W. Smith referred to the time when
she received her endowments, and said although
the sons of the Prophet deny that the ordin-
ances were performed in the days of their
father, she was a witness to the contrary. She
had also heard the Prophet speak of plural 
marriage, and knew that it was revealed to
him.
	Mrs. Mary P. Young made a few remarks,
and was followed by Mrs. M. I. Horne. She
advised the young women to read the Bible
and converse upon religious subjects, and be-
come better posted. She felt God honored his
handmaidens, for He gave a revelation for
Emma Smith, in which she was told to teach
and expound the Scriptures.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt thought our religion the
best, and that it compared with the Bible better
than any other. Referred to the inconsist-
encies of the Methodists; spoke of conversations
she had had with Gentiles upon these subjects.
An interesting letter from Prest. Mary A.
Freeze was then read.
	(Mrs. Clara James spoke in the gift of tongues,
and was listened to by an almost breathless
audience, and Mrs; Rida C. Taylor, who had
never before addressed an assembly of the
Saints, gave the interpretation.
	A few remarks were made by Coun. Nellie
Colebrook, expressing her gratitude for the
meeting, and that she obtained a strong testi-
mony, and thought that everyone there had.
	Conference adjourned for three months with 
singing and prayer.)


