EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that perhaps a few items from our
little place in the pines would not be amiss, I
will try to pen a few thoughts and ideas upon
paper.
	Our little place begins to look somewhat
lonesome since so many have moved away,
only eleven families remaining, and we do not
expect to keep our dear President long, as she
is expecting to go to her husband, who, like
many more, is an exile from his home. In the
beginning of June the scarlet fever broke out
here, causing lots of sickness and quite a num-
ber of deaths among the children. Sister
Laura Wood from Bountiful, Davis Co., buried
all her children—three beautiful little girls and
one sweet baby boy—this making six they have

[Column 2]

had pass away to a better world, having had
two die in Utah with the diphtheria. It does
seem hard to part with the dear ones we love
so well, but we must be tried as gold seven
times, to purify us for our Maker's presence. I
have eight children, and they were all sick
with the fever, but all recovered except my
little babe. I send a few lines that I composed
to his memory.
	The sickness and deaths in the community
have caused quite a melancholy time. There
were seven deaths in less than two months, and
there being so few in this place, and fewer still
who care to attend their meetings, we are like 
the parable of the fish, we are mixed and of 
many kinds.
	There has been but one Relief Society
meeting held this summer, and that was held
on the 7th of this month, there being only four
present, which was very discouraging to Presi-
dent Whipple. She is a good woman, and so
are her Counselors. We have held several
meetings consisting of President, Counselors
and Secretary, but we enjoyed the Spirit of the
Lord whenever we met. Some of the sisters
live quite a way off, perhaps that is one cause
of their not attending more; but, hoping that
we may all live more closely to the Lord, and
see the error of our ways—for the time has
come when we must do right ourselves whether
our neighbors do or not, and, hoping to always
enjoy the good spirit, we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		HARRIET WHIPPLE,
