BELOVED SISTERS:
	Not anticipating the pleasure of being with

[Column 2]

you in person to-day, I feel that I shall be
with you in spirit, and take the liberty to ad-
dress you through the medium of pen, ink and
paper—very briefly, being aware that your
time is very limited.
	I thank our Heavenly Father that I am as-
sociated with you, not only in the precious and
everlasting bonds of the glorious Gospel of
the Prince of peace, but also in the sacred,
God-revealed organization of the Relief Society,
which places us in position to accomplish more
good, both temporally and spiritually, than
otherwise would be possible. The performing
labors of love and duty, relieving the wants of
the poor—administering to the sick—lifting up
those who are bowed down—strengthening the
weak—encouraging the desponding—arousing
the dormant, etc., etc., is productive of the
purest and noblest pleasure enjoyed in mortal
life.
	May you, my sisters, in this Conference, real-
ize a copious refreshing from the presence of
God. May the spirit of instruction, consola-
tion, love and union rest on those present—
every heart be cheered, and each soul resolve
anew to draw closer to God, and lean firmly on
Him, that you may see beyond the dark cloud
that rises before us, and rejoice in prospect of
the blessing that comes after the tribulation.
May the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, be your
constant companion, and you be enabled to ac-
knowledge the hand of God in all things.
What He will not overrule for the good of the
Saints, He will avert.
	Your Sister, 
		E. R. Snow Smith.
	Thursday morning, Dec. 9, 1886.

	The first seventeen wards of the city, and
Pleasant Green, were represented in their
order, and the showing was particularly good
so far as activity in benevolent work is con-
cerned, and a desire to be diligent and faithful.
	Prest. Horne made some timely suggetions,
and encouraged the sisters to perform every
duty and be firm and steadfast. 
	Morning session closed with singing the
doxology, and benediction by Mrs. M. McMas-
ter.
	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
the 18th, 19th, 20th, Sugar House, Farmers,
Big Cottonwood, South Cottonwood, Draper
and North Jordan Wards were represented; all
in a very prosperous condition financially, and
an increase in memebrs and endeavors to do
good.	
	Prest. Horne addressed the sisters for a
short time, referring to many important mat-
ters, and giving much good counsel. She
stated that she was on hand to visit any  of
the branches in the Stake when  the sisters
could make arrangements for her to go. Ad-
vised the sisters to consider the weather at this
season and try to have these meetings when the
people could come out. She gave some instruc-
tions to the sisters upon washing and anointing
the sick, as some had understood that those
who ministered in these ordinances must be
specially set apart, otherwise it was not in the
proper order; told them that this was an errone-
ous impression; all good, Latter-day Saints,
who had received their blessings, in the house
of the Lord might officiate when called upon.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor presented the names of
the Central Board, and the presiding officers
of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, and all
were sustained in position by unanimous vote.
The presidents and officers of each branch in
the Stake, as now enrolled, were also sustained.
Coun. E. S. Taylor was glad to hear that the
members of the Society in its several branches
were improving spiritually and temporally;
glad to find interest in the Society increasing
among the people. She made some very excel-
lent remarks upon  talking and gossipping
about other people's affairs, and urged the sis-

[Column 3]

ters to try and refrain from these things and
"mind our own business."
	Mrs. M. W. Snow made a few remarks; said,
"Let us all try and be more cautious, more
wise and more silent upon sacred things; keep
things that are holy in our own bosoms, and
pray for wisdom. We have persecution, but
the hand of the Lord is in it, and the time is
drawing nigh when the Son of Man shall 
come. Who is ready to welcome Him? Let
us be merciful, even as our Father In heaven
is merciful, and aim to attain to that which we
were placed here for, even eternal life."
	Mrs. E. B. Wells expressed herself as glad
of being associated with the Relief Society;
bore her testimony to the truth of the Latter-
day work. Said, "Let us observe the Savior's
teaching, to do unto others as ye would that
others should do unto you.'" Said she had
read and believed the truest politeness was that
which the Savior taught—"whatsoever ye
would that men should do unto you, do ye
even so unto them." Thought we should be kind 
and tender to each other, and never wound the
feelings of anyone knowingly. Spoke of the 
subscription for the family of one of the
brethren in Arizona, who had been an Indian
interpreter, and had died, leaving his family
in poor circumstances; invited the sisters who
could to contribute even ever such a small
sum.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox bore testomony to the
truth of the Gospel, and rejoiced to be num-
bered with the Saints.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, "Let us be watchful
all the time, and let us not do any unnecessary
talking, and not speak of things that would
hurt any one's feelings; let us live so that we
can bless each other and do good to each other,
and seek to do our duty at all times."
	Dr. E. R. Shipp: "I can say of a truth that
I know this to be the work of God; let us put
into practice the instructions we have heard;
it is not what we hear. but what we do by
which we shall be judged. I often think we
could hardly live if it were not for the Gospel;
those that leave this church are very miserable; 
they have nothing to live for."
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp: "Let us be careful
not to hurt each other's feelings, but overcome
this propensity of speaking harshly and judg-
ing others, and let us be more kind and tender
and merciful, that we, too, may obtain mercy.
I am one with you, my sisters, and wish all the
time to do what is right."
	Prest. Horne entreated the sisters to be
awake to duties, and not be caught napping
"Cultivate the Spirit of the Lord. It is a
good thing to have a fund on hand in each So-
ciety, and not expend all. It might be called 
a relief fund. Let the teachers be sure that
no one belonging  to the  families of those
brethren who are in prison is neglected, or
suffers for any comfort." She was glad the
brethren had appointed meetings on the blocks;
"they will do a great deal of good; our
young people will have an opportunity to hear
the testimonies of the brethren and sisters.
We have to be diligent for ourselves. We
cannot borrow the Spirit of the Lord; we must 
have it in our own hearts; every means is made
use of by our enemies to annoy and distress us.
I want to say a few words about this "Indus-
trial Home," that our enemies are getting up
for the "down-trodden women of Utah." We
don't want any of our poor taken care of by
the Gentiles; we take care of our poor our-
selves. Let us not be overtaken by the snares
that are laid for our feet and the feet of our
children. Let us guard them and guide them.
The Lord looks favorably upon his daughters,
and it is our privilege to know that we are in-
deed His daughters." Referred to the daughters
of Zelophehad, mentioned in Scripture, who
asked concerning their inheritance, and even
Moses was not able to answer them, but in-


quired of the Lord, who instructed him to give
them inheritances with their brethren, showing
He acknowledged their rights and privileges.
Prest. Horne closed with an earnest desire that
we might have grace sufficient for our day.
Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "The time is far spent." Benediction
by the Secretary, Mrs. E. Howard.

