GENERAL DANIEL H. WELLS.

	Next in rank, in the hierarchy of the Latter-day 
Saints, to the Presidency of the Mormons is Daniel
H. Wells, whose portrait we publish to-day. In
Gentile circles the veteran of the Church is still
spoken of as a "Danite," and a "Destroying
Angel," for the fiction of that avenging Vehm-
gericht dies hard. Among the Mormons, how-
ever, he is known as General of the Utah Militia
—no longer extant, at any rate, on paper—and
Second Counselor to the Apostles. It is in the
latter capacity that he has addressed to us the
letter which will be found on another page.
	A very remarkable man is General Wells. Rug-
ged of countenance, laconic in speech, of com-
manding stature, he is always a striking figure in
the meetings of his people, while his qualities of
mind have made him one of the most conspicu-
ously distinguished characters in their history.
Well born, and descended from men who have
held the highest offices in the Eastern States, he
began his own official career under good auspices
and at a very early age. His father, however,
died when he was a mere lad, and the widow, sell-
ing her landed estate, migrated to Illinois. At
the age of twenty-one he had so won the confi-
dence of his fellow citizens that he was made a
justice of the peace, and to a very singular extent
filled a position as general umpire and arbitrator
in disputes of all kinds between all classes and


creeds of people, that has its only parallel in the
Cazi of Eastern cities. When thus rapidly rising
to place and power he came into contact with
Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism, who,
with his people, had been hunted out of Missouri
by a mob of fanatics who murdered women and
little children. Young Wells, with that severely
just American spirit which distinguished him, was
furious at the inhuman treatment which the
wretched people had received. He was not a
man of any sentiment, but the sight of the harm-
less Mormons hunted with bloodshed out of the
townships which they had built up with honest
industry by bands of vagabond bigots, made him
so indignant that he extended to them all the pro-
tection his position enabled him to do. Again the
Mormons established themselves, and again they
were broken up by combinations of loafers and
fanatics. It was then that Daniel Wells threw in
his lot with the persecuted people. He took a
leading part in the battle of Nauvoo, and his
white charger is as familiar in Mormon chronicles
as any other historical war-horse; and, upon the
surrender of the city, it was he who covered the
retreat of the Saints, and manoeuvred them across
the river. Ever since then he has been a pillar of
the Church; and the Americans will never forgive
him for the part he took; under Brigham Young's
orders, as commander-in-chief of the Mormon
troops when the Federals sent down an army to
coerce the Saints in 1857.—Court and Society Re-
view.
	London, England, October 14, 1886.


