NOTES AND NEWS.

	It is rumored that a newspaper is to be
started in London, owned and run entirely by
women. Editors, reporters, proof-readers, com-
posers, stereotypers, and even the "devil" are
to be women or girls.
	The women of Wisconsin are hereafter to
vote upon school affairs. This amendment
was carried at the recent election by a majority
of 4543. Thus, quietly but surely, does the
world move along, and woman will be more
womanly when man recognizes her equal indi-
viduality and woman dares assume the high
prerogatives which this recognition involves.—
Unity.
	The National Woman Suffrage Association
has established a woman’s lecture bureau at
Chicago, with Mrs. I. H. Roby as manager.
She desires to get all first class lecturers to
place themselves in the hands of this bureau,
and would like them to have at least two lec-
tures on the suffrage question.  For further
particulars, address Mrs. I. H. Roby, No. 2106
Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
	Francis Minor has an article in the Decem-
ber Forum arguing that women have the right
to vote at Federal elections under the U. S.
Constitution, and that the Supreme Court of
the United States ought to revise its decision
to the contrary. It would be delightful if the
Supreme Court would do so, but until the
present judges die off and a new set come in,
there is not much hope of it.—Woman's Jour-
nal.


﻿Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Nov. 16, 1886:
	Maria E. Beasley, Philadelphia, Pa., Mak-
ing Barrels.
	Mary Lane, Hot Springs, Ark., Hose-nozzle-
holder.
	Susanna Oldberg, Washington, D. C., Rub-
ber boot.
	Florence M. Reynolds, Los Angelos, Cal.,
Adjustable Skirt-holder and Rack.
	Harriet W. R. Strong, Oakland, Cal., Win-
dow-sash holder.


Never deceive your children. The most
essential point in our intercourse with our
children is to be perfectly true ourselves.
Every other interest ought to be sacrificed to
that of truth. When we in any way deceive
a child, we not only show him a pernicious ex-
ample, but lose our own influence over him for-
ever. Parents cannot be too guarded in this
respect.—Mrs. J. M. Brining.


