EDITOR EXPONENT:
	MY DEAR SISTER:—I feel it my privilege,
as well as my duty, to write a few lines to our
little paper. I have taken it ever since it was
published, and I am sure I would not know
what to do without it, but I find several have
had the paper discontinued because of hard
times. It seems to me this had not ought to
be. I think we should exert ourselves to sus-
tain the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, not only by sub-
scribing for it, but in writing to the paper.
There are many gifted women among us, that
have language to express their views and senti-
ments on subjects of very great importance,
and they should let their light shine through
the EXPONENT. I feel, for one, willing to lift
my voice in defense of truth and right.
	Shall we not protest against the falsehoods
and slanders that are heaped upon us by our
enemies? They say we are serfs in bondage,
and so on. Well, we know better; there is no
bondage in keeping the commandments of God,
which we are striving to do, but it is our ene-
mies that are exerting themselves to the utmost
to bring us into bondage, by trying to take
away every right and privilege bestowed upon
us for our benefit and well being; but the Lord
has said, "Thus far shalt thou go and no far-
ther;" but let them do the work for him they
have listed to obey, the reckoning day will
come, and all will be rewarded according as
their works have been. We know that our
trust is in the God of Daniel, whom the angels
delivered from the lions' mouth, and He will
deliver us if we are faithful and true. To be
sure it annoys us when the marshals come
hunting around, searching not only for men,
but for our sisters and daughters, dragging
them before jurors and into courts to testify
against fathers, husbands and brothers; it is
very unpleasant, but nothing to be compared
to the fate of our accusers; surely they are the
ones to be pitied, for they know not what they
do. As for us, as Latter-day Saints, we expect
to be tried and tested. The Lord has said He
would prove us to see if we would abide in
Him.
	Sisters, let us keep the Spirit of God for our
constant companion, that we may not be over-
come, but endure, for these light afflictions,
which are but for a moment, will work out for


us a far more exceeding and eternal weight
of glory.
	Success to every effort to do good, and to
the EXPONENT.
		N. M. TRACY.
Mariotts Ward, Weber Co., Dec. 3d, 1886.


