HAVE THE MORMONS ANY RIGHTS?

	Joseph Smith, Jun., the Latter-day Saints'
Prophet, predicts, among many other occurrences,
the coming of a time when the Constitution of the
United States would be practically worthless be-
cause of a violation of its principles that contend-
ing political parties might gain a temporary advan-
tage, to make way for subversive expediencies,
and to satisfy the clamor and unrighteous appetite
of a headstrong nation. He predicted further,
that the Mormons would defend that Constitution;
and though driven, persecuted, despoiled and
murdered under its protection, they would even-
tually rescue and rehabilitate it, and offer an asy-
lum to the oppressed and God-fearing of all na-
tions. The painful fulfillment of the greater por-
tion of this prophecy, stamps—if there were no
other proof—Joseph Smith gifted with almost
divine foresight. And this I shall prove section
by section, article by article.
THE FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION
says: "Congress shall make no law respecting an
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free
exercise thereof." Every Act passed by Congress
which directly or indirectly affects the religious
principle of Mormon plural marriage is a clear
and incontrovertible violation of this article of
the Constitution. Polygamy is an integral part of
the Mormon faith. It is a sacrament. The
United States' officers have themselves so declared
it. Not only has the Constitution been infringed,
but, in order to justify the enactments against the
Mormon faith, Congress has been compelled to
declare that "Mormon" polygamy is not religion,
and in that very declaration have legislatively
stated what is religion; for to say what is not is
emphatically to declare what is religion. No
power exists under the Constitution which gives
the right to force Mormons to accept a system of
marriage foreign and repugnant to their faith be-
cause it happens to be the pet method of modern
and existing Christianity.
	In clause 3, Sec. 9, Art. 1, we read,
"NO BILL OF ATTAINDER OR EX POST FACTO
LAW SHALL BE PASSED."
But the Edmunds Law of March, 1882, says that

[Column 2]

"if a citizen believes it right for a man to have
more than one living and undivorced wife at the
same time, or to live in the practice of cohabiting
with more than one woman," this "shall be suffi-
cient cause of challenge to any person drawn or
summoned as a juror or talesman." Thus, without
even the farce of a trial, a man is deprived of a
right that belongs to him as a citizen. This is at-
tainder—this, the Constitution distinctly forbids.
Moreover, the Edmunds' Law forbids any polyg-
amist voting at any election, and declares him
"ineligible for election or appointment to any
place of public trust, honor, or emolument;" and to
carry this out Commissioners were appointed who
"reversing the presumption of law and declaring
the whole population to be guilty, proceeded to
convict individuals by a test oath of their own
fabrication,', and thus, without trial, they are de-
prived of a right, which Judge Black says is the
inalienable part of citizenship. It is both attain-
der and ex poste facto, operating against those
who entered polygamy long before opposing meas-
ures were ever dreamt of. Section 8 of the Edmunds
Law regarding the holding of offices is a most
painful and palpable infraction of the sixth article
and third clause of the Constitutional Amend-
ments. "No religious test shall ever be required
as a qualification to any office or public trust under
the United States."
	Article VI. of Amendments provides that
"IN ALL CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS
the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and
and public trial by an impartial jury of the State
and district wherein the crime shall have been
committed." This provision the fifth section of
the Edmunds Bill contravenes by excluding from
a jury any man who may even believe it right for
another to have two wives living and undivorced
at the same time; and as there are, notoriously,
only two classes in Utah—Mormons, and those
who hate them heartily—an impartial jury is an ab-
solute impossibility. As a result, the arrest of a
Mormon is equivalent to conviction. Proof of the
act which consummates marriage is not necessary
to conviction. If a man has lived apart from his
wives for an indefinite period, but fails to disown
them, he is convicted. Marshal Fred Dubois, of
Idaho Territory, admitted under oath, before the
Court of which he was an important officer, that
he had made use of the language here given: "I
have now got a jury that will convict every Mor-
mon brought before it on a charge of unlawful co-
habitation, innocent or guilty. It would convict
Jesus Christ himself if he were brought into Court
on that charge." The crusade is a religious one,
in every respect. It is not only unconstitutional,
but anti-constitutional; but the United States' Su-
preme Court has sustained and continues to sus-
tain these fatal violations of the Constitution.
JUDGE BLACK, THE GREATEST DEMOCRATIC CON-
STITUTIONAL LAWYER OF HIS AGE, 
referring to this act in a speech before the Judici-
ary Committee of the House of Representatives,
February 1, 1883, predicted: "To carry into effect
the laws already passed, it is necessary and proper
that you should have a police force composed of
spies and delators, who will thrust themselves
into the kitchens and bed-chambers of all families;
employ eavesdroppers, who will watch them at
keyholes and windows; or in default of that,
change the rules of evidence (as a committee of
the Senate has actually proposed), and compel the
lawful husband and wife to testify against one
another in contemptuous defiance of the great
principles which protect the sanctities of the
family, and lie at the basis of civil society." This
warning has been realized to the very letter, not
only as to spies, but to forcing the lawful wife to
testify against the husband. Scarcely a day passes
that does not witness the degrading fulfillment of
Mr. Black's ptediction; against this, also, the

[Column 3]

fourth article of the Constitution stands. It pro-
vides that "The right of the people to be secure
in their persons, houses,papers, and effects against
unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be
violated." Sick women and tender children, at
all hours of the day and night, are dragged by
coarse and vulgar officers from their beds, forced
to give evidence against the husband and father,
and subjected to such vile and indecent question-
ings as would cause the blush of shame to mount
to the cheek of a libertine; and this, too, in open
Court, before vulgar mobs, by the demand of the
public prosecutor, and with the countenance and
sanction of the judge. It is impossible that Eng-
lishmen could comprehend the infamous depth to
which the prostitution of justice has gone in
America where the Mormons are concerned..
	Article 2 of the Amendment says:—
"NO PERSON FOR THE SAME OFFENCE SHALL
BE TWICE
put in jeopardy of life or limb." But Lorenzo
Snow was three times convicted for the one offense,
unlawful cohabitation. The only proof against
him was furnished by himself, wherein he admitted 
having more than one woman to be entitled to the
name of wife. He had never violated the Ed-
munds Law. That was distinctly proven. Yet,
he is now suffering imprisonment under three con-
victions for the same offence. By a system of
segregation, if a man live with two women as his
wives for one month, according to the rulings of
the lesser and sanction of the higher Courts, he
may be convicted, in the discretion of the court,
for an offence for every hour. Thus, allowing
thirty days in the month, a man could be sent to
jail for a period of 360 years, and be fined £34,200
whereas the law puts the extreme penalty at six
months’ imprisonment and £60 fine. Besides, this
action necessarily involves the infraction of still
another constitutional principle (Article 8 of the
amendments) that "excessive fines" shall not be
imposed, "nor cruel and unusual punishments in-
flicted." The first part of this article reads: "Ex-
cessive bail shall not be required." Yet Geo. Q.
Cannon, one of the first Presidency of the Church,
was arrested under three indictments for unlawful
cohabitation. If, on trial, he were convicted, and
the extreme penalty which the law provides were 
inflicted, he could have been imprisoned for
eighteen months and fined £180. He demanded
to be admitted to bail, but before being released
the judge required him to furnish the unimpeach-
able security to the sum of £9,000. The custom-
ary bail in cases of manslaughter, assaults, and
forgery is from £100 to £300; but, because of his
prominence, Mr. Cannon had to give £9,000. The
Constitution says: "Excessive bail shall not be
required." And this is a country where liberal in-
stitutions and freedom are the basis upon which
the Constitution and Government are founded,
and where all men are equal!
THE MORMONS,
though citizens of the United States,
ARE ALLOWED NO MILITIA.
The legislation against them is special and class;
the rules of evidence have been outrageously per-
verted and practically destroyed; the fundamental
right of local self-government is largely denied
them; attempts are being made to rob and despoil
them as a religious community, and this with the
weight of sanction which the United States Con-
gress gives, and to deprive them of the last ves-
tige of citizenship; the organic law which the
parent Government gave them has by that authori-
ty been viciously violated; test-oaths are imposed,
no constitutional provision behind which they
could take the slightest refuge has been respected.
They are harassed, and worried, and hounded,
and despoiled of liberty, property, peace, and
character, by a set of impecunious, incapable,


ignorant, fanatical and dishonest, blackguards;
who, under the sanction of the "greatest Govern-
ment on earth," would rob, malign, and assassin-
ate them literally as they have done to their-
characters.'
	To crown all, a new proposition has been made
in Congress with the approval and applause of the
leading newspapers, to pass an amendment to the
Constitution, making it constitutional to deal with
the subject of polygamy. If the laws already
passed, and now doing such effective work against
polygamy, are constitutional, why this proposed
amendment? But if the proposed amendment be
necessary to justify anti-polygamic legislation,
what becomes of the enactments already passed,
now in full operation, and which the United
States Supreme Court has held to be constitu-
tional? If these acts are constitutional, the pass-
ing of the proposed amendment is like saying,
"We did right in doing what we have done, and
now we will make it more right by saying we did
right in doing right;" which is sheer and unmiti-
gated idiocy. Inconsistency is the inevitable and
invariable result of departure from principle. The
inconsistency may be long delayed, but it is of
unerring certainty. No truth could be more clear-
ly exemplified than in the dealing of American
statesmen (save the mark!) with the Mormon
problem.
	How long will a Government last, when men
who profess to love it can sanction its prostitu-
tion.
	How much respect can a Government claim
where it shakes its angry locks over the imprison-
ment of a common brawler, and threatens a war
unless he is released, as in the case of the man
Catting held recently by Mexico, and yet pays no
heed to the wail and petition of 200,000 of its op-
pressed and down-trodden citizens at home,
whose only desire is that their charge of insuffer-
able grievances may be investigated? In this un-
hallowed and unconstitutional persecution the
Mormons, in defending their own rights, are fight-
ing the battle of human liberty and constitutional
rights, and seem to be the only friends the Con-
stitution has left. When grave and thoughtful
men, who live in and love America, who are
among its chief intellectual and literary lights,
freed from the prejudices and the excitement inci-
dental to active political strife, hold it to be merely
a question of time, when it shall be disrupted and
overthrown because, of internal and political im-
morality, the weight of, Joseph Smith's prophecy,
that the end hastens, receives a weight of testi-
mony that should make those who are wise in
their generation pause.
		D. H. Wells.


