IN MEMORIAM.

	At a meeting of the Relief Society of the Fourth Ward,
Salt Lake City, held Dec. 8th, 1886, the following resolu-
tions were unanimously adopted:
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Ann
Jenkins, First Counselor in the Relief Society of the
Fourth Ward, Salt Lake City, who died suddenly at her
residence, Nov. 13th, 1886, aged fifty-three years.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from us by the hand of death our beloved and respected
sister and co-laborer in the Relief Society, therefore,
	Resolved, By the members of the Relief Society of the
Fourth Ward, that in the death of Sister Ann Jenkins, we
have lost a wise counselor, true friend and faithful laborer
in the Relief Society; one who was ever patient, zealous in
her religion and faithful to every duty, and her many good
qualities will ever remain as a monument to her memory.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family in the loss of a true and loving wife, a kind and
affectionate mother.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed
on our minutes, printed in the WOMEN'S EXPONENT, and
a copy given to the bereaved family.
		Jane S. Smith,
		Susan M. Sperry, Committee.
		Mary A. Lambert,

	Thomas Biggs, son of Johnathan Biggs and Elizabeth
Edwards, born October 29th, 1815, in Bona, Inverness
Scotland. Married Syrina Billings Piercy in London
England, Dec. 25th, 1847. Baptised into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at Welling, Kent, Eng-
land, March 24th, 1848. Ordained a Priest April 16th,
1848, at Woolwich, Kent, to which branch they belonged.
Ordained an Elder August 29th, 1849. Emigrated to the
United States the same year. Came to Utah from Council
Bluffs in 1852. Settled in Provo that year and built a house,
then came to Salt Lake City and was ordained a Seventy,
and received into the Twenty-fifth Quorum of Seventies
April 17th, 1853, and moved his family to Salt Lake City
in May, 1853. Worked at blacksmithing on the Temple
Block. Received his endowments March 17th, 1854.
Moved to Sugar House Ward and worked with George
Bywater and others in building and fitting up Sugar House.
he came again to Salt Lake City and labored in the
Tithing department until the fall of 1858, then joined his
family in Provo, and worked in the Tithing Office, 1859,
then moved to Salt Lake City and again worked in the
Tithing Office, then moved again to Provo, and from
there went to the Promontory and worked on the railroad;
then to Weber Canyon; and labored on the Union Pacific
R. R then to the C. P. R. R., having worked on the
different railroads in all about four years. In 1873 moved
into the 16th Ward, Salt Lake City, and worked at his
trade, being a boiler-maker, and had charge of that depart-
ment for the Utah Central, which position he filled for
about four years, then being called on a mission to Arizona,
leaving Salt Lake City in 1877, and arriving in Arizona
March, 1878.
	Having had poor health for the last four years, he left for


Logan to continue his temple work, which he left unfinished,
but his health being so poor, on reaching Salt Lake City,
he stopped with his son-in-law, John Wm. Keddington, in
August, 1886, and departed this life Dec. 1st, 1886, having
labored faithfully for the cause of truth from the day of his
baptism until his demise, believing in the principles and or-
dinances of the Gospel as revealed through Joseph Smith
the Prophet.  He died like one going to sleep, without
even a gasp, in the hope of a glorious resurrection, leaving
a loving wife, eight children and twenty-nine grandchildren.
He was a devoted husband and a wise and tender parent.
