	CHRISTMAS TABLEAUX.
		
	I sat and looked into the fire on Christmas
Eve, when all the folks in the house were fast
asleep, and I saw some queer things, and heard
some strange noises, and shadows flitted about
me, which made a very great impression upon
me, and I scarcely knew if I was awake or
dreaming.
   I heard the prattle of little children, and
the merry laugh, that rang through the rooms,
and the silvery echoes of childish voices seemed
to vibrate in the air, and picture after picture
framed themselves so vividly that I could al-
most fancy they were real.
   One was a very large kitchen, with an im-
mense fireplace, and great pine logs were
blazing high, and on the ceiling overhead, on
long strips of wood, there were rows of yellow
pumpkin cut in rings and hung to dry, and on
the wall, bright pewter pans and cups, polished
until you might see your face in them.  A long
handled, brass warming-pan, and many other
things familiar to my childhood were there,
and the little children were playing hide and
seek, and calling out of corners and closets
that seemed innumerable.  They had such a
jolly game! and an old man, very old—they
called him grandpa—was watching them and
laughing as heartily as any of the crowd when
one was caught and dragged from the hiding
place.  The wind was whistling shrill outside,
and the great elms fairly groaned, but the
children heeded it not, only now and then they
stopped for a moment to listen to the music of
the night wind.  Such rare music borne on the
wind in a winter night!  What voices there

[Column 2]
are, and what wonderful things they tell to
those who listen.	
   I pause, and close my eyes to shut out the
sight, for it is all too real, and another, just as
true to life, but different, presents itself on the
instant.
   I wander in the woods.  A crowd of boys
and girls are there, and they are gathering
long trailing vines of evergreens and twining
them round each other.  How beautiful they
look!  They have filled their baskets with
these woodland trophies, vines and boughs kept
green all the long, cold, dreary winter, and they
laugh and talk and sing snatches of songs, and
their notes die away in the distance among the
rocks and trees, and I listen for the last faint
echo, and start again, trying to remember the
words of the song I once knew so well, and I
ask myself, “Where are those boys and girls”
—companions of my youth?
		"I call to mind, but cannot find
		   The forms I once loved well;
		Where have ye fled ye vanished?
		   I ask, ye do not tell;
		I search, I roam, abroad, at home,
		   I seek each much loved spot;
		My labor ends, but ye, dear friends,
		   Like Rachel's babes, are not.”
I reach out my hands in utter unconsciousness,
but they fall heavily down, and a great sob
swells up in my throat, and I feel as though I
were stifling.  Outside the wind is moaning, and
every now and then the dry leaves come whirl-
ing up in little clusters like a flock of living
things, and beat against the windows of my
room.  My pen has fallen from my hand—I
was trying to write, and breathless I listen, as
though some one were coming long expected.
My heart beats quickly, and solemn thoughts
of loved ones long departed to that other, bet-
ter land stir my soul to its inmost depths.  But
they come not, even though we long to get but
a glimpse of them, a clasp of the hand, a sign,
a word, a token only of their love and recogni-
tion.  We almost feel their presence near us
when we are quite alone with our own commun-
ings, but there is no visible, no tangible form
or figure.  Memory can recall their faces and
their loving words, and it is blissful even to
recollect the saintly guise they wore on earth,
and feel that now they are freed from the sor-
rows and trials through which we who remain
are passing.
		“Life is real, life is earnest,”
and so we find it, with much that is painful to
bear, and many disappointments, but now and
again, in the sharpest suffering of mind, there
comes a respite, given in mercy to the weary
soul; hours when God seems near in a living
presence to soothe and comfort.  It comes some-
times in answer to prayer and supplication,
and we are strengthened unconsciously for the
renewal of the battle of life.  But more often
we are left to grope our way along, calling in
vain for help, because our Father wills that we
should walk alone, that we may learn to be a
guide to others.
   How still it is, this house once so full of life
and gaiety.  What a change has swept like a
burning, scorching fire over the place.  No
wonder I sit like one entranced; and yet the
fire burns just as brightly as it did when all
was happy and joyous, years ago.  I hear the
night wind shriek and howl, and then the low,
mournful dirge that follows is like a hymn for
the dead, plaintive and thrilling.

[Column 3]
Once there was so much noise within we
could scarce hear the sounds outside, but now
they mock me with their incessant din, when I
am soliloquizing as to-night, and all alone with
my own thoughts.  And yet the wind is a relief,
I would not have it otherwise; a dead calm is
monotonous; there is no poetry, no romance in
it.  But I have been digressing, talking of my-
self; let me come back to the tableaux, that
come for a moment, and then vanish one after
the other.
   The room is full of beautiful young faces,
and there’s a sound of music, now soft and
sweet it ripples along, and I distinguish two fa-
miliar voices, that blend in perfect harmony,
and a voiceless melody, that keeps perfect time
to these,played with a lovely hand.  I can even
see the sapphire gem upon it, that sparkles in
the faint light; that hand, thin and white,
sweeps across the strings of the guitar, and not
a discord mars the sounds that float around
me like enchantment; but they die away slowly,
growing fainter and more indistinct, and other
music, not so dreamy, but more bold and full
in tone, strikes upon my ear, and with it there’s
a sound of whistling; can it be the wind?  Per-
haps it was, but I fancied it was more human
and not quite so weird withal.  O memory!
what sanctity thou bringest with thee, when the
mind is “thrown back upon the past;” what
hallowed reminiscences are those that accom-
pany the shadowy tableaux from out of the in-
visible.  A sweet influence, a holy peace is
diffused around me, and for the moment I am
so absorbed that I take no note of the present.
   Yet there are many happy homes to-night,
where mirth and festivity reign, and little
children look for Santa Claus, and with the
enthusiasm of mystery, question and listen and
peep here and there for tokens of his coming.
The children’s Christmas! Their full happiness
is more than aught else to the older ones, save
it may be to those who sit and dream like me,
and live over again the scenes that waken such
delightful retrospections.
   Hark! there comes a low rich music like that
of an aeolian harp, so tender and pathetic that
it brings the tears, soft tears, that fall like
summer rain, and do me good.  I pause and
listen; there is no one else astir.  I creep care-
fully up the stairs; the music is above me still,
but it is weird enough to frighten one more
courageous than I am.  I climb another flight,
and the wind puts out my light.  The moon-
light streams in pale upon the bare, cold floor,
and the wild, irregular melody comes, as it
were, from some unknown source.  I look
around me; there are many quaint old things,
that have been thrown here from time to time
as useless rubbish, and the night breeze plays
in and out the broken window panes, and the
loose casement rattles, but ’twas none of these
that brought me to the garret at this unseemly
hour.  Again the trembling, quivering notes
sweep past me, like what we read of in old
castles among the towers and turrets, rude, per-
haps, but more thrilling than the exquisite
touch of one accustomed to the finest ivory
keys; and though I have a taste for the mysteri-
ous, yet I discover--and it pleases me as well--
the music comes from the guitar so often
played upon by one now known no more among
the living; the wind has strayed in through
some crack or crevice, and has swept across
the threadbare strings and through the time-
worn instrument, and in the stillness of the
night, when one's nerves are overwrought with


emotions that flood the soul to overflowing, one
might well mistake it for a strain of music out
of the unknown realms, played by a seraph's
hand.
	While I retrace the way to my corner by
the fire, to resume my soliloquy, my thoughts
have flown far, far away to another land, to
one, an exile, who sits alone, perchance, and
out of the solemn silence of the night fancies
he hears the music of the past over again, and
the dry leaves rustling and "the voices in the
wind" may be to him, as to me, not only re-
minders of the past, but prophetic harbingers
of the future, when those now cruelly separated
may clasp hands again, and the desolate homes
be filled with glad songs of praise and thanks-
giving.
