COMMENTS.

	It is a sort of query in the minds of the people,
why the President of the United States has not
specially singled out and mentioned Utah in his
late message. Those most deeply interested in
the welfare and prosperity of Utah and its people,
accept it as a specimen of the good sense and
sound policy of the Chief Executive of the nation,
that he refrained from joining in the general out-
cry against this already much abused and maligned
Territory, in his annual message. Surely there are
laws enough already against those deemed fit sub-
jects for his special measures, and officers author-
ized to enforce them, and a court that interprets
the laws to "fit the cases." What more, in all
conscience, can anybody want? The representa-
tives of the "Liberal" party were on hand at the
great capitol before the message was completed,
no doubt, and would have been more than willing
to give Mr. Cleveland advice in regard to what he
ought to say about Utah.
	Congress don't seem to be fixing up Utah affairs,
either, and unless something is developed soon,
what will become of the two dignitaries who went
away so jolly-hopeful of impressing Congress and
the President with the immediate necessity of hav-
ing something done to give them and their clique
an opportunity to display their patriotism and
loyalty in defense of the rights of the "liberal"
party as against the veritable citizens of the Terri-
tory, who came here when there was no vestige of
civilization, and planted the American flag on the
Rocky Mountains in this vicinity.
	While the home-loving and industrious "Mor-
mons" are defending their rights, human and
divine, to the best of their ability, and trying, in
the midst of an accumulation of difficulties, to
facilitate the growth and progress of education,
manufacture and agriculture, and using their best
endeavors to maintain a footing in the land to
which they came a band of poor, humble exiles,
men who have lived in their midst, and who have
partaken liberally of the advantages accruing from
the economic manipulations of the early pioneers,
are ready and willing, yes, even anxious to go
down to Congress and rob the Mormons of the
few rights not yet taken away. Why these few
men in office here should so vigorously pursue
the "Mormons to the death," would seem incredible
if one had not strong and unmistakable evidence.
If  there were not so many meddlers in Utah
affairs, it is barely possible the people of Utah
might have a short respite, a breathing space in
the attack the opposition is waging, but every now
and then one of the political clique pops up with
some new remedy for the terribie evils that they
represent exist here in Utah, when the fact is that
the people are not at all in need of a remedy where
all is peace and tranquility, or would be, were it
not for such men and women as have come here
on purpose to despoil the people of their rights
and possesions.
	And not content with seeking to wrest political
power and influence, and "lobbying at Washing-

[Column 2]

ton, women, have professed great interest in
reforming the morals of the Mormon people,
whereas, at home, in their own towns and cities,
their moral influence is doubtless greatly needed;
and the money they are so anxious to obtain could
be used to good advantage in actually relieving
want; it certainly could in the District of Colum-
bia. The combined efforts of those ladies who
have associated themselves together, and incor-
porated articles to establish an "Industrial
Home," will fail to have any effect upon the religion
of "Mormon" women; Congress and the President
may rest assured of that, and plural wives will
never place themselves under their direction, and
their HOME will stand empty unless filled by
others than women who can be induced to re-
nounce any principle of their religion.
	The same disappointment awaits all those who
are advocating their various methods to overthrow
a principle and order of marriage, that is as eter-
nal as the heavens, and as far above their compre-
hension.
	There has been a great disappointment in the
ranks of the enemy lately, in their failure to con-
vict President Angus M. Cannon, and that is
only a beginning of the crosses they will have to
endure in seeing their wisdom come to naught.
They have woven a fine web to catch the silly
"Mormons," so they think, but it is flimsy and
will break in pieces; it has no strength nor solidity.
It is a web of lies and deceit, which they have set
as a snare, but though here and there one may get
entangled in its meshes, the Lord will stretch
forth His hand, as He has promised, and the evil
they desire to do will be averted, and they will fall
into the snare they have set for the Saints of God.
If such people would observe the Mormon creed
—"Mind your own business"—peace and happi-
ness might be restored in the homes of the Saints,
and the government of the United States might
save the money now expended in employing men
to hunt down Mormon men and plural wives. It
is a marvel that the tax paying public of these
United States are willing that public money
should be appropriated for such unnecessary pur-
poses as establishing a home for women who are
already better off than the great majority of the
women of the nation; but they will see, by and
bye, how foolish this scheme is, and wish the
money had been kept for some laudable purpose.


