DEAR EXPONENT:	
	I have intended for some time to send you
some leaves from my journal hoping a few ex-
tracts will be interesting to your readers.
	My parents joined the Church in Ohio and
came to Nauvoo when I was four years old.
Since then my life has been identified with 
this people. I came to this valley in 1847, the
first year of its settlement, consequently my 
knowledge of the great world outside of the
mountains has been somewhat limited.
	It had long been my darling ambition to 
visit once more the land of my nativity and
the relatives of my parents. I had held cor-
respondence with the older ones of the families,
but those of my own age I knew very little
about. They were passing away one by one
until all were gone but one on each side of our
house. My father's sister and my mother's sis-
ter were all that remained of that generation.
	On the 14th of April, 1885, I started out
with a company of missionaries to visit my
friends in the east. It seemed a great under-
taking to start alone on such a journey. I felt
safe as far as New York and after that I would
trust to providence. With my husband's bless-
ing and the kind wishes of my friends, I left
the depot at Provo at one p.m. Spring was
early, and the fields were already green with
grain and lucern, the orchards were in bloom, 
and the valley looked like a vast garden, and
the air was laden with perfume. Passing into
Spanish Fork Canon, the change is soon felt.
The air is quite cool and snow is on the
ground.
	Soldier's Summit, 3 p.m. We have passed
through the snow sheds and left an engine—it
required two engines to bring us up the hill.
We leave Spanish Fork River, after which the
water sheds the other way and we are over the
rim of the basin. Rain is falling, and the
mountains are white with snow.
	Castle Gate, 4:15 p.m. Raining hard; the 
scenery is grand; the rocks look as if they had
been broken open on purpose for us to pass
through. Immense cliffs rise above the track,
and look as though they might fall and crush
us in atoms. The rocks and hills as we pass
look very picturesque. One can imagine them
feudal castles. Terraces and battlements rise
one above another, solid and impregnable—
huge monuments of God's power, contrasted
with man's feebleness and decay. The scenery 
is wild and grand, and baffles my powers of
description. The tops of the mountains are
flat, and extend back as far as the eye can
reach, only broken here and there by additional 
castles and turrets or towers. We pass a set-
tlement of seven houses.
	Another small town called Price. There is
a nice station house. We are in Castle Valley.
It seems mostly hills and hollows, interspersed
with the gigantic castellated rocks, from which
the valley is named, and which impresses the
idea that it has at some period of time been
inhabited by a race of Titans or giants, and
that these have been their fastnesses or strong
holds. 5:35, Sunny Side; so called because the
sun shines there sometimes. The valley grows
narrower, and we enter a canon.
	Grassy Trail, 5:45. A few spears of grass
are said to grow here. Water runs down the
rocks from snow melting on the mountains, and
Price River is very muddy. Lower Price is a
very pleasant station, terraced rocks rising on
one side to a great height. Looks as if it had
stormed here all day.
	Wednesday, the 15th, 5:35 a.m. Cimeron.
Twenty minutes for breakfast. Bro. Nelson
makes some tea in our tin cups on the heating
stoves for Sister Harrison and I. We eat
breakfast from our lunch baskets and feel re-

[Column 2]

freshed. We made ourselves as comfortable as
possible in our reclining chairs, but I think
none of us slept very soundly. It stormed
hard and was very dark, and many a yawning
chasm waited the least misstep of our iron
horse. The fires went out and we were rather
cold. Every little while some one would speak
then a general conversation would follow.
Some complained of cold, some asked the time,
while others turned over and tried to look out
into the darkness. After three o'clock I went
to sleep, and waked at daylight to find that we
were on the tops of the mountains, the ground
covered with snow. 
	Leaving Cimeron, we came to the Royal
Gorge, where the rocks tower to a great height
on each side of us. A rock has fallen on the
track, and the train is run back behind a curve
while it is blasted and cleared away. It is
marvelous how the ingenuity of man could
make a road over these awful mountains; and
to think that we should travel so quietly along,
up and down, where the rocks almost meet
over our heads, and look as if they might drop
on us any moment and crush us from existence.
It is called the Black Canon of the Gunnison;
and black and dismal it looks, except the tops
of the mountains, which are covered with snow,
The road seems cut in the side of the rocks,
while the river foams and dashes below us.
The telegraph wires are fastened to the rocks,
it being impossible to set poles for many miles.
It is not storming to-day, but the wind blows
so cold that we cannot use the observation car,
where we could get a better view of the scenery.
Some of the men button their overcoats and
go out a little, but I do not venture.
	Stop a few minutes at Curicanto. We hear
another blast, and suppose there must be
another rock in the way. An engine runs
ahead of the train, presumably to look out for
danger. 
	Sapinero, 8:10. Cloudy, but not storming.
We are out of the gorge or canon, which is fif-
teen miles long. The mountains are low, but
look high ahead of us. There is quite a distin-
guished company in our end of the car. It in-
cludes an artist, a poet, two bishops and a
professor. Gunnison, 9:15. Croylan, snow
covers the ground and is still falling. Crocks,
10:15. Ground covered with snow. It grows
monotonous. Sargent, 10:25, a mining town.
Shawano, 11:15. We are winding around the
tops of the mountains, so high. Away above
the clouds are some of them, for there are still
plenty above us. Such a fearful height can 
only be realized by looking at the awful chasms 
below us. Here are snow sheds; twenty-three
in succession, with scarcely a minutes ride be-
tween them. It is called "Marshall Pass," and
seems on the very tops of the mountains, but 
there are higher mountains in the distance to
the left. We look down on the tops of tall
fir trees. It is fearful to look down so many
thousands of feet. I shall never forget the im-
pression.
	To be Continued.


