NOTES AND NEWS.

 A ROYAL Marriage is shortly to be con-
summated in Spain.  King Alfonso and
Princess Mercedes are to be joined in the
holy bonds of matrimony on the 2d of Feb-
ruary next.
STANLEY, THE African explorer, is being
"feted" everywhere on his return home,
and loaded with honors.  He is at present
in Rome.  His success as an explorer has
won the admiration of all interested in dis-
coveries.
 THE GREEK politician, Demetrins Bul-
garis, died Jan. 11.  His death will pro-
duce a great change, no doubt, in the affairs
of Greece, as he was the leading spirit of
the liberal party in that Country—the land
which was once the seat of learning and of 
fame.
 A LARGE number of women's petitions
have been presented in Congress since its
session, representing a great many thou-
sand names, praying Congress for a com-
mission of inquiry regarding the alcholic
liquor traffic.
 THE TURKO-Russian war is spreading
devastation and distress over the whole of
Eastern Europe, and it is scarcely possible
now for England to remain neutral.  Adrian-
ople is now open to the Russians.  Con-
quest after conquest by the Russians leaves
little doubt but the Turks must eventually
be overpowered.  The Turks have fought
desperately to maintain their possessions.
England is naturally very much excited;
and fears are entertained that Russia, em-
boldened by her success, will force England
to measures of antagonism.
 VICTOR EMANUEL II, late King of Italy,
died in the royal palace, Quirinal, in Rome,
on Wednesday, Jan. 9, of malarial fever, a
disease which is quite common in Rome at
this season of the year.  The death of this
celebrated monarch will have an important
bearing upon the Roman Catholic Church,
undoubtedly and very probably upon the
war now raging in Eastern Europe.  Vic-
tor Emanuel II has effected wonderful
changes in the kingdom of Italy; has made
some powerful conquests through his daring
diplomacy and political tact.  Prince Hum-
bert, the eldest son of the King, and his
rightful successor, has already issued a pro-
clamation to the Italians, in which he says,
among other things, that his "sole ambition
will be to deserve the love of his people."
The Pope, who is himself very ill, sent two
prelates to the King during his illness, with
the papal benediction: it is said, too, ex-
pressing his regrets that he was not able to
attend in person.  The Pope is suffering
seriously from paralysis.  Victor Emanuel
II was the life-long enemy of His Holiness
Pius IX.
 THE FORTY-FIFTH Congress re-assembled
after the vacation of the holidays, on Fri-
day, Jan. 11, and among other items of
business presented almost immediately, was
the Sixteenth Amendment petition, offered
by the Honorable Mr. Sargent, Senator
from California.  Mrs. Sargent, wife of the
Senator, is Treasurer of the National Suf-
frage Association.  This gentleman has
shown his nobility of character, in undertak-
ing to represent the cause of the women of
America in the Halls of the National Con-
gress, knowing as he does how unpopular
said cause is.
	"Section 1. The right of the citizens of
the United States to vote shall not be de-
nied, or abridged, by the United States, or
by any State, on account of sex.
	"Section 2. Congress shall have power to
enforce this article by appropriate legisla-
tion."
	To-day has been appointed by the Senate
Committee on Privileges and Elections, to
consider, in connection with arguments
presented, the proposed Sixteenth Amend-
ment, offered by Senator Sargent in behalf
of the representatives of Woman's Suffrage
from the various States and Territories.


