				LETTER V.

	What are the hopes that have grown with the years,
	Nourish'd in pain, and born of our sorrow—
	Christen'd by grief, baptized with our tears,
	Cloth'd with resolve and faith in the morrow?

	Since I addressed my last letter to the
readers of the EXPONENT another year has
rendered up its record, and a balance sheet
has been struck, and a new, clean page has
been presented on which to write our
names, and enter the list with our fellow-
workers and companions for the champion-
ship in bravery and heroism (if we will) in
the good cause of self-improvement and
progression. How many vows have been
recorded in the archives of the angels to

[Column 2]
begin anew, to redeem the past, to pay off
the old debts of neglect of duty, or indul-
gence of self—by adding to each day some
good, in recompense for the unfulfilled ob-
ligations of the former year. These are
some of the thoughts suggested by the ad-
vent of the New Year. Each successive
year brings us its changes, and its peculiar
retinue of hopes, desires and ambitions, in-
spired by the conditions of the times, and
their bearing upon the individual organiz-
ation.
	The circumstances and conditions of
countries and nations control the thoughts
and aspirations of peoples. We are more
or less susceptible at all times to the influ-
ence of surrounding elements, which act
and react upon our organizations, and pro-
duce their corresponding results. There-
fore we cannot be sure of anything but our
trust in God—for events of importance fol-
low each other in such quick and unlooked
for succession, that the most ingenious
plans may be frustrated, and hopes blasted
by the changes which may transpire sud-
denly.
	Any person of reflection must find much
food for thought in recalling incidents
which have had a serious bearing upon the
most important events in one's own person-
al history. Our lives are made up of chap-
ters, each one having its own peculiar open-
ing clauses or paragraphs. Some of these
are rich and racy, full of all that is most
hopeful, most desirable, and most pleasant,
and anon just turn the page and there ap-
pears sad and sorrowful events, which we
shudder as we recall, and thank God the
ordeal has been passed, and we have had
strength and courage given us sufficient to
endure, though we may not have overcome.
The trials which we pass through make our
joys rich by comparison, and teach us "to
feel another's woe" more vividly than we
otherwise could. Difficult lessons are only
mastered by great efforts and earnest appli-
cation, and this rule applies admirably to
the lives of individuals. When we have
exerted all our faculties and used our best
endeavors, there is always One to whom we
can look for inspiration to help us, and if
our faith is sufficient we shall not beseech
in vain.					AUNT EM.


