CORRESPONDENCE.

	OXFORD, Jan. 7th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Like the widow mentioned in the New
Testament, I wish to cast in my mite with
my sisters. Although living away out here
in an almost isolated place, so far North
that our beloved sisters did not reach us
when on their recent Northern visit, yet
we are trying to blend our works with those
who labor for the cause of Zion. We have
on hand sixty bushels of wheat, and some
means to procure more, but there seems to
be no surplus grain here, as the wheat
turned out so light last fall. The sisters
are liberal in their labors and donations,
etc.; we labor under quite a disadvantage,
as many are living out on their farms. On
the first Thursday in this month at our
monthly meeting, the article in the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, No 14, of the report of
the First Annual Grain Meeting, held in
the Council House, S. L. City, Nov, 17, was
read and listened to with much interest.
The instructions there given by our beloved
Sister Eliza R. Snow and others, especially
the brethren, enlivens our energies in the
wonderful work in which we are engaged.
Surely, as an ancient prophet once said, it
is "a marvellous work and a wonder." A
few days since we had a visit from a rela-
tive who resides in Oregon, formerly from
Canada. He soon began to ask questions,
and said to me, "I suppose you are Mor-
mons?"
	Answer—"Yes, we are what is termed
Mormons."
	Question—"Do you believe Mormonism
as it used to be taught in the beginning?"
	Answer—"Certainly we do."
	Questiou—"Well why is it that so many
apostatize from the Mormon faith?"
	Answer—"Because the Gospel is like the
net cast into the sea—it gathers the bad
and the good." I then referred him to the
parable of the sower of the seed.
	Question—Well, do the Mormons work
miracles?"
	Answer—"The Almighty Father works
miracles with this people; miracles are
wrought by the power of His Priesthood
only."
	"If," said he, "I should ever see a mira-
cle wrought, I could never turn from it and
apostatize." I then said, "First trace the
history of this church from the beginning
to the present time—its travels, persecu-
tions, being robbed and driven, and as


exiles cast among the wild savages of the
Rocky Mountains, &c., is it not all a mira-
cle that you find us as we are to-day (hav-
ing been brought out of so much distress,
as is spoken of in the hundred and seventh
Psalm)?" "Yes, that is very true," was
the reply.
	After reading and talking with Brother
Boice three days und three nights, he asked
for some church books, which we gave him,
and said he should go home, dispose of his
property, and bring his family out in the
spring. He went away rejoicing that he
had been so happily disappointed.
	I often think how thankful I ought to be
that I have life and blessings with the Lat-
ter-day Saints. When we realize this it
elevates our spirit, and enables us to sur-
mount our trials. It is then that I can say
to myself. "Do what is right, let the conse-
quence follow; God will protect you do
what is right."
	As ever, your sister in the cause of Zion,
