		L. E. WASHBURN, Cor. Sec.

		WEST JORDAN, Jan. 4th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Annual Report of West Jordan Relief
Society for 1877:
Donations received..................... $181.90
Disbursed to the poor................    173.13
Stock in West Jordan Woolen
	Mills.......................................    700.00
Dividend on Stock.......................     169.51
Assessments on Stock................       86.85
Paid on Assessments..................       56.85
Amount in Treasury—Temple
	clothes...................................       20.00
Cash, sundries, &c........................       31.10
	We are trying to do all we can to help
the cause of Zion and to administer to the
wants of the poor and the needy among us.
We have our monthly meetings and we
meet together to make clothes for the poor
in our Ward and we have quite a number
here to support.
	The EXPONENT is an ever welcome mes-
senger among us, and we wish it success.
	We haven't stored much grain yet, for
the brethren are building a granary for the
ward, and we are going to have a share in
it, and expect to lay up more wheat next
year.
	Our sincere prayer is for the prosperity
of Zion and all her institutions, and our
desires are to do all the good we can. We
remain your sisters respectfully,
		ALTHEA GARDNER, President,
		LOUISA EGBERT,	}	Counselors.
		AGNES COOPER,	}
		DELILA GARDNER,	Secretary,

[Column 3]
			CLARKSTON, Nov. 3d, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place were
blessed with the presence of some of the
good sisters from Salt Lake City, and re-
ceived from them some valuable instruc-
tion. Meeting opened with the usual ex-
ercises, after which Mrs. Zina D. Young ad-
dressed the assembly. Mrs. Young said
she felt very much gratified in meeting
with the sisters in their new Meeting
House. She felt to ask the Lord for a bless-
ing in our meeting together. She advised
the sisters to lay up wheat for a time of
need; supposed they had already com-
menced, and explained that what they did
store up no one had any right to use, until
those who had counseled us to store it up
should advise us to disburse it. She said
if there was nothing more in our religion
than "Baptism for the Dead" and "Celestial
Marriage," it was worth living for. The
Prophet Joseph Smith in his lifetime said
the Relief Society was not only to adminis-
ter to the needy, but to save souls. She
spoke very instructively in regard to dress,
said we should dress so that we can feel
comfortable, without regard to the fashions
of the world; she also made some good re-
marks in regard to our food; gave some
good counsel to young men on the subject
of using tobacco and stimulants, and to the
young sisters on various subjects pertain-
ing to their mission here on the earth. She
advised the sisters to take the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. She thought those sisters who
were willing to live in plural marriage had
made a step towards loving their neighbors
as themselves. She bore testimony that
the principle of Celestial Marriage was true,
and advised the sisters never to say a word
against it. She told us how to bring up
our children, and said never to correct them
in anger. She also said the sisters could
enjoy themselves without doing anything
to grieve the Holy Spirit; God did not
wish us to be sad, but to be cheerful. She
concluded by asking the blessing of God
upon us. She afterwards exhibited some
specimens of home-manufactured silk arti-
cles.
Mrs, E. Davis said she felt thankful for
the privilege of meeting with the sisters of
this place; she was sorry that Miss Snow
could not be with us, but she would read
one of Miss Snow's poems, which she com-
posed in Palestine, concerning the curse
which rested upon the Jews. She advised
the young to seek unto the Lord in their
youth; their parents would not always be
with them, and it was necessary for them
to have a knowledge for themselves of the
divinity of the work in which they are en-
gaged. She related some of her experiences
in the church, which were very interesting.
She gave some very good instruction in re-
lation to home industries, and mentioned
the articles made by the sisters for the
Centennial Exhibition in Salt Lake City.
She said strangers visiting the city said
the articles compared very favorably with
those they had seen elsewhere. She en-
couraged the sisters to go to work and
manufacture all the clothing they could for
their families, and solicited them to sub-
scribe for the EXPONENT and assist in sus-
taining that paper, and by so doing aid the
Elders in spreading truth to the world.
She closed by invoking the blessings of
God upon all, both old and young.
	Some other excellent things were said
for our comfort, and the meeting was ad-
journed. Prayer by Elder W. O. Carbine.
		MARY GRIFFIN, President,
			JANE GODFREY, Secretary.


