A HIGHER EDUCATION.

	The cultivation of the human mind to its
fullest extent is one of the subjects upon which
very much is being said and written. Colleges
and institutions of learning are being estab-
lished on all sorts of improved plans and meth-
ods, designed to produce the best results.
Young ladies and gentlemen graduate with a
complete knowledge of various sciences and
languages, to say nothing of superior accom-
plishments, and are launched into society to
fill the higher places and positions among the
"elite" of the land. This is an improvement
certainly, upon the time when ordinarily peo-
ple were only taught the simple rudiments of
their own language, without any knowledge of
the history of countries or their geographical
boundaries; but after all, is there not in many
instances a neglect of that cultivation of the
heart which gives to its possessor a generosity
and kindliness of feeling, and draws out the
Godlike affections that make us feel for one
another's woe, and overlook in each other de-
fects of nature and of character. Are men and
women not apt to be too much engrossed with
one idea and lose sight of others of equal, or
more importance? Some eminent persons dis-
tinguished for their learning and ability have
become so enraptured with the beauty of
knowledge that they become totally oblivious
to the duties and obligations of social life.
	Diogones, the great scholar of his day, the
great philosopher, not only ignored all the laws
of living properly, but despised them. Men
called him a cynic, he was certainly an ex-
tremist; but there is assuredly danger of the
mind's exclusive cultivation of neglecting
the superior attractions of the heart and the
affections which help to make up the sum of
human happiness for the cultivation—the in-
tellect, which however noble it may be when
properly balanced, will be of comparatively
little value when weighed against the heart
and affections which are the very highest
source of happiness next to the comforts of re-
ligion. It is true that in many instances the
mind is cultivated at the expense of the heart.
The little child is sent away to school, to learn
grammar, arithmetic etc., and too often it is
the case that the fond, proud mother in encour-
aging him to excel in all that will qualify him
for position forgets to enjoin upon him the cul-
tivation of the heart.
	The mothers have this part of the education
of the young mostly in their own hands; and
if they would have their sons grow up with
that affection in their natures, which partakes
of the elements of tenderness and charity, of
peace and good-will towards all mankind, then
they must cultivate these sentiments in those
under their influence. The Savior in all His
teachings and instructions sought to instill the

[Column 2]

principle of love for the human family.  The
Golden Rule is a good illustration of the neces-
sary cultivation of love, "To do unto others
even as ye would they should do unto you."
If this injuction is carried out in the lives of 
individuals then is it not essential to cultivate
those peculiar gifts and graces which make
men and women susceptible of all the finer
feelings, qualified or designated as the noblest
attributes of humanity; and though one may
possess all knowledge the world can bestow,
and however practical he or she may be, yet
lacking the higher and holier attributes of 
character, such an one can never participate
in that full and complete enjoyment which
has its source and fountain within the human
heart.  Is the charity of which St. Paul
speaks, the giving of alms?  No! Does he not 
say "And though I bestow all my goods to feed
the poor, and though I give my body to be
burned, and have not charity it profiteth me
nothing.
	There is a loving, tender influence which is
more understood than expressed, yet is percep-
tible in gentleness of manner, harmony of
voice, and a mild and soothing demeanor,
which seems inherent and natural in some per-
sons, and is most charming in a companion, or
associate.  It would be better conveyed to the 
mind of the reader by the word womanliness but
is sometimes imparted to sons as well as daugh-
ters, and although the word effeminancy in
men is almost offensive yet gentleness and
deference are highly commendable.  These at-
tributes can only exist in reality with true no-
bility of character, though they are sometimes
feigned.  Men in this age are too much afraid
of being classed as womanly and assume an
arrogance that ill becomes them, lest they
should fail in dignity or superiority.  Many
men seem to fear being demonstrative, and
thus they stifle those finer feelings and affec-
tions that give such a charm to home-life, to
the daily intercourse of those who dwell un-
der one roof, who surround one fireside.  What
a p[-]culiar fascination there is in the exchange
of tender and gentle expressions, when they
flow from the heart; when one feels it is not
only the lips that speak but the heart that
prompts.  Solomon said "with all thy getting
get understanding;" and when the time comes
if it ever does, that men and women arrive at
a better understanding of how to promote each
other's happiness, how to dwell together in
love, then peace will reign, where now dis-
cord and confusion predominate.  When men
and women have learned the art of cultivating
the affections, the divinest attributes, then will
they have arrived at one method of a higher
education.
