STAKE OF ZION, GREETING!

	Beloved Sisters:—Through revelation
from God the Prophet Joseph Smith organ-
ized the first Society of sisters in this last
dispensation, saying to the people that the
Priesthood was not firmly established on
the earth, without an organization of this
kind. He gave the sisters much valuable
instruction, and predicted a great future for
this organization. In consequence of the
exodus from Nauvoo, this Society was brok-
en up. After the Saints were located in
these valleys of the mountains, President
Brigham Young counseled the organization
of branches of this Society, in all the Stakes
of Zion; and as the kingdom of God pro-
gresses in a more complete organization
throughout all the different Stakes of Zion,
so by the counsel of our late President are
the Relief Societies being organized with a
Presidency over the several Stakes of Zion,
to meet once in three months and have Re-
ports read from the different branches of
the Relief Society through the county. As
we have been elected to preside over this
county, we feel much need of the Spirit of
God to enable us in our weakness to dis-
charge our duties in this position. We feel
truly thankful that through the blessing of
our Heavenly Father, we, His handmaid-
ens are called to be co-laborers with our
brethren in building up the kingdom of 
God upon the earth, in assisting to build
Temples, wherein we can receive blessings
for time and eternity. In all the ordinances
received in the House of the Lord, woman
stands beside the man, both for the living
and the dead, showing that the man is not
without the woman nor the woman without
the man in the Lord. Then what manner
of women should we be? Faithful in per-
forming all the duties devolving upon us as
daughters of God. Sisters, do we appre-
ciate the privileges we enjoy, and the re-
lationship we sustain to God, to each other,
and to His kiugdom on the earth? We
know there are very many faithful sisters,
striving with all their might to do all that
is required of them. To all such we say,
God bless you, sisters! and give you strength
to do all your hearts desire to do in right-
eousness.

[Column 2]

	We shall be pleased to visit the different
Societies whenever it is convenient to the
Societies for us to do so. We would say to
the Presidents, Be diligent in laying before
the sisters the necessity of doing all they
can to promote the interests of Zion, by
sustaining our institutions of home-indus-
try, as well as our own literature. We are
convinced that there are hundreds of dol-
lars sent out of this country every year
for trashy literature in which there is no
profit. Sustain our own publications—the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, the only woman's
paper published in Zion, our chnrch works,
Sister E. R. Snow's poems, and the Wo-
man's Book, the Life of Brigham Young—
all these works will give the youth a know-
ledge of what the Saints had to endure
while trying to establish the gospel on the
earth. Much will be required at the hands
of the parents, for the teachings and exam-
ples they give their children.
	May peace and the blessing of God be in
the hearts and habitations of all who are
interested in the work of the Lord, is the 
prayer of
	M. ISABELLA HORNE, President,
ELMINA S. TAYLOR,
SEREPTA M. HEYWOOD,	Counselors.


