BY ELLEN SIMS.

Fit mate for Clara Vere de Vere,
	You sought our hilly homestead brown,
To find the health that you had lost
	In winter's wild campaign in town.
For trout you sought our crystal streams;
	You sketched our hills and valleys wild;
In idle moments sought to win
	A maiden's pure heart, undefiled.

Though knowing naught of worldly guile,
	She saw your soul with truthful eyes;
Beneath your studied speech and smile
	She saw the serpent in disguise.
"Recall," she said, "your foolish vows;
	It is not love you bear for me;
To-morrow you'll regret these words,
	Prompted by wounded vanity.

"What think you Newport's belle would say,
	If she her own sworn knight conld see
In rustic arbor, on his knees,
	Make love to country lass like me.
Conceited, useless, fickle, vain,
	Why should you play so vile a part?—
Merely for wantonness to strive
	To break a country maiden's heart.

I scorn you, that, with power and wealth,
	And your vast opportunity.
You sit content to spend your life
	In the soft lap of luxury.
Go choose a bride with lily hands,
	To wear your lace and jewels rare;
Of stately step and studied grace,
	Soulless and useless, vain yet fair.

Return to town; and when you find
	Such bride, midst fashion's devotees,
Reflect your worth would not suffice
	A simple country girl to please."
I saw the scene and heard the words
	As I lay concealed amidst the wood;
He plead no more his hopeless love,
	But turned and left her where she stood.

Yet backward glanced, as well he might,
	For fairer picture ne'er was seen—
In wild and gipsy grace she stood
	Within a frame of living green;
Her chestnut hair o'er broad full brow,
	In smooth, bright waves came floating down,
But backward thrown did not conceal
	Her graceful shoulders, bare and brown.

The bust of Physche could scarcely match
	Her bosom's perfect form and grace;
Her red lips wreathed in scornful smile,
	Her eyes the glory of her face;
She smiling stood, till winding path
	His form concealed among the trees;
Then turned and sought our humble home
	With heart as light as summer breeze.

Beaver, July, 1875.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			AFTER LONG YEARS.
