	ERFORD B. HAYES.

	To Mrs. Hayes—Respected Madam : The
members of the Citizen's Suf[-]rage Associa-
tion of Philadelphia desire to express the
pleasure they have in seeing your name
coupled with that of the revered President's
in the introduction of social and other re-
forms tending to moral improvement and
elevation. They believe no warmer heart
or more earnest and active mind can be
found among the male advisers of your re-
spected husband than your own; and they
can conceive of no good reason why this
spiritual and moral worth should not be
publicly recognized and utilized for the na-
tion's good.
	To those honored with a nation's trust
great responsibilities and duties attach, and
great opportunities as well, for advancing
human rights and correcting human wrongs.
In this light they respectfully ask your fav-
vorable attention to the subject of the right
of women to a voice in the laws which gov-
ern them and their property, and to which
they are held amenable, to the end that
your word and influence, though unofficial,
may prove, as frequently happens, that the
"power behind the throne is greater than
the throne itself."
	Women are the only citizens wholly un-
represented in this government, the only
class not guilty of crime that is taxed with-
out representation, tried without a jury of
their peers, governed without their consent;
and yet even the opponents of woman suf-
frage must allow that in this class are many
of the most intelligent, virtuous and law-
abiding citizens, possessing all the requisite
qualifications of voters. This state of
things, you will admit, is a total denial of
the principles upon which this govern-
ment is based, and which, if not remedied,
must inevitably lead to its overthrow. It
cannot be supposed that "men" in the Dec-
laration of Independence stands for one
sex only and not for human beings, or that
the "governed," whose consent is the only
source of just power, means that half who
assume the position of governors.
	This contradiction between practice and
principle cannot be explained away, and,
far from being expedient, it is an unquali-
fied evil, perverting and demoralizing to
both men and women, and forms an insup-
erable obstacle to vital improvement in the
character or social condition of the country.
The claim of custom is on the unjust side


[Column 1]
﻿while reason, humanity and justice are on
the other.  There ought to be valid reasons
why that which is most prized by one class
of human beings as the ground of their
peculiar civilization equality of rights,
should be denied to another class that stand
in precisely the same relation to the gov-
ernment, with the same interests and
needs.
	Men cannot have keener sympathies or
greater practical activity for the common
welfare than the wives, mothers and sisters
of men; and the power to enforce social re-
forms, which by common consent are as-
signed to woman’s sphere can only be found
in the ballot. Can one see it to be just or
right that a man owning a certain amount
of property should have a vote in respect
to that property, while a woman owning
the same amount, and perhaps many times
more, should have no vote? The women
of Massachusetts pay more than one-tenth
of the whole tax on property in the State,
and yet have no power to decide the use
and distribution of a single dollar of it.
The best means for self-protection and de-
fence is the ballot; and reason and con-
science would say, if but one class can have
it, it should be granted to the weaker, rath-
er than to the muscularly stronger.
	Not the noblest and most generous of
men can feel as a woman must for the mis-
ery of an ill-used wife, the anguish of a
mother deprived of her children. Woman’s
sympathies in these things must be deeper
and more intense than the best man can
feel, and the suffrage is hers by Divine
natural right to help correct this vicious in-
difference of men, and bring the power of
legislation to the rescue of the weakest and
most neglected of mankind, who are now
thrown upon brute force as their champion
when their personal rights are invaded, or
left to dishonorable submission.  Apart
from the fact that we want the feminine or
mother element recognized in the functions
of government, there is to-day pressing
upon the attention of the people a great in-
dustrial problem which deeply concerns
thousands, may, millions of working-women
of the nation.  In this now momentous
question they deem it essential that these
women should have a peaceful and poten-
tial voice.
	A social revolution is threatening the
land. Ignore in this contest, the voice of
women, generally for peace, until the hour
of desperation, and you have left in the
problem man’s ferocity alone.  Women now 
invoke your aid to place them in that posi-
tion of political and social honor wherein
their influence may be most successfully
exercised.  Especially in the department
of education, now occupying so large a
share of public attention, do they ask you
to lend your aid to give women that politi-
cal status, whereby they shall not only be-
come the teachers of children, but, still
more important, where they shall aid in di-
recting and controlling the course of edu-
cation as well.  They cannot possibly do
this while debarred from those political
rights, by the exercise of which the con-
trol of our great public school system is
now lodged with men, who, however wise
and learned in scholastic knowledge, are
deficient in a knowledge of the wants, ca-
pacities and needs of children—boys as
well as girls. England’s action in this mat-
ter is well worthy our imitation.
	The home is the safeguard of the nation,
and that force in the family which harmon-
izes, brings into subjection the coarser and
rougher passions; which warms and softens
the heart, drawing each member into for-

[Column 2]
getfulness of self and corresponding
thoughtfulness of others, is the element
most wanting in the exercise of political
functions—civil, legislative and judicial.
This force, you will allow, resides domi-
nantly in the mind and heart of woman—
leading to the activity which requires pa-
tience and perseverance, rather than
strength of muscle.  The advocates for the
equality of rights before the law neither
ask nor desire special advantages or excep-
tional legislation for women.  They only
claim that, standing in precisely the same
relation to the state that men do, the same
powers and rights should be accorded them.
It Is only rational that, in a population con-
sisting of both sexes, the united agency of
both should be more efficient than of one
sex alone.
	In all the scenes of life, circumstances
are ever arising which demand a peculiar
cognizan[--] that the sympathy and judg-
ment of sex can only supply.
	The ballot, then, being the means of self-
government, and in a direct line with na-
tural enlightenment, prosperity, justice and
goodness, they feel free, dear madam, to
ask your influence with the wives, mothers,
and sisters who are making every laudable
effort to share in this system of self-gov-
ernment by force of their own intelligence
and elevation of character.
	That this administration, so earnest to
establish justice and equality between the
North and South, may not close without
wise and rational consideration of practical
means to speedily bring about this equit-
able and highly conservative condition;
wherein a true republic can exist upon the
earth, fulfilling the grand idea struggled 
for in the ages and proclaimed by the fathers
whom we honor, is the sincere and earnest
prayer of the undersigned.
	For and in behalf of the Citizens’ Suf-
frage Association of Philadelphia, and of
our countrywomen and countrymen who
value the rights and privileges of free gov-
ernment.
	CAROLINE H. SPEAR,
	MARY BYRNES,		Committe.
	JOHN M. SPEARE,
To Mrs. Hayes, Executive Mansion, Wash-
	ington, D. C.
	Lucretia Mott,			Susanna M. Curby,
	Sarah Pugh,			Emma A. Rohdes,
	Ellen Mellon,			Lavinia J. Palmer,
	Jane E. Sobers,		Clara Blodget.


