			HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON SUNDAY a fire broke out in the second
story of the building occupied by Mr. Camer-
on, called the New York Store, on the west
side of Main Street. The roof and upper
rooms of that and the adjoining store were
badly burned.

	"THE AMATEUR" published in Ogden by the
Y. M. M. I. A., has entered upon the third
month, and pursuant to their plan for improve-
ment it has now another editor, Austin C.
Brown. This little volume contains some good
articles from the pen of its members and indi-
cates the progress which is steadily being
made by those who are associated together in
these organizations for improvement.

	MISS MAYTIE Van will take pupils in lace-
work. She understands making several pat-
terns of the Smyrna lace and will teach six

[Column 2]
patterns to pupils finding their own materials
for $5,00. The number of lessons will depend
upon the aptitude and ingenuity of the learn-
er. This is a very useful branch of home in-
dustry and ladies desirous of making their own
laces would do well to take advantage of this
opportunity for learning. Residence on 4th
South Street between East and West Temple
Streets.

	THE DESERET University is at the present
time in a prosperous condition. This academy
of science which has been many years estab-
lished, has at the present 137 pupils enrolled.
Dr. John R. Park is President, and Professors
Toronto and Kingsbury his assistants. All the
higher English branches are taught at this in-
stitution, also Latin and Greek. Young peo-
ple wishing to become teachers should avail
themselves of the opportunity of studying un-
der Prof. Park, the Theory and Practice of
Teaching, as his ideas and suggestions on the
subject are the result of long years of experi-
ence as a practical educator.

		11th WARD, S. L. CITY Jan. 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We forward for publication, the following re-
port of a meeting held in the 11th Ward
school house, of the Relief Society which
opened with the usual exercises of singing and
prayer. The minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted. The yearly report read as
follows: Donations received $273,90, Disburse-
ments, 261,42, Wheat on hand, twenty-five
bushels, Flour, seven hundred lbs., Money, $13,
15.
			MRS. M. MCRAE, President,
			M. BIDGOOD, Secretary,
	[Minutes of this meeting will appear in our
next issue.]

	WE HAVE received a copy of the book recent-
ly published in this city containing the names
of all persons indebted to the Perpetual Em-
igration Fund from 1850, the time of its com-
mencement, up to the close of emigration for
1877. There are over 19,000 names published
in the pamphlet of which we speak, and the
indebtedness amoun[-]s to over a million of dol-
lars. The Latter day Saints know upon what
basis this P. E. Fund stands, and that every
person who is brought here by that Fund is ex-
pected to pay as soon as they conveniently can,
in order that others who are anxious to come
may have the privilege of being gathered out
from Babylon. People are too apt to neglect
their duties in these matters, and to postpone
from time to time and finally forget their ob-
ligations. The publication of this book will be
a gentle reminder to many, no doubt, who will
now settle immediately, or as soon as their cir-
cumstances will permit them to do so.

