REMONSTRANCE.

	So they want to take away our right of
Franchise do they, and why? will you please
tell me? A few years ago they wanted us
to have the right of franchise, crying the
women of Utah were such down-trodden
slaves to men that it was necessary to give
us the right of the ballot box to free our-
selves. Our legislature granted their de-
sires and for eight years we have exercised
our rights; what have we done that the
privilege should be taken from us? We
have not even abused our enemies in the
only paper we publish, viz., the EXPONENT,
we have never noticed in any way the
abuse and slang of our enemies, but treat-
ed it with the silent contempt it deserves;
we have been moderate in all things, re-
joicing in our emancipation, thankfully ac-
cepting the blessing as a precious right, too
precious to be trifled with, or abused. Those
who have observed will tell the women of
the world that the women of Utah have
improved rapidly since receiving that bless-
ing; so much so as to astonish any think-
ing mind. They have leaped upward tak-
ing their place side by side with man, not
in antagonism but as helpmeets. The fran-
chise here in Utah is developing powers
in women that will astonish the world, and
that soon. It will settle the vexed ques-
tion as to the superior intellect of man over
woman. Since the women have voted the
Territory has not gone backward, neither
have we forced ourselves into public notice
by abusing the men nor elbowing our way
regardless of their rights, we have endeav-
ored to act as sensible women, by voting for
those whom we felt best qualified to fill the
offices. Judging from what I have observ-
ed no man should be afraid of women hav-
ing the right of franchise, if eight years of
freedom has not begun to develop any evil
tendency I think it will be a piece of cru-
elty to deprive us of that right. In con-
tradiction of all the lies written and spoken
about us, we are among the most law-abid-
ing and virtuous women on the face of the
earth, for we truly try to live above the
law.
	We are thankful to the women of the
States for their noble efforts to stop the pas-
sage of any bill that will deprive us of our
rights; and are willing to do anything con-


sistently to help them obtain theirs. If
they should take the right of Franchise
from us, it wi[-]l be the death blow to the
women of the States ever obtaining that
right.						MARY.
	Grantsville, Dec. 31st, 1877.


