			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General meeting of the Retrench-
ment Associations was held in the Council
House, Saturday, Jan. 5th, 1878. The
meeting was a large one. Mrs. M. I. Horne
presided, who, in her opening remarks
wished the sisters all "A Happy New Year,"
and that peace, joy and prosperity might
be in their households during the present
year. She sought to impress upon the
minds of her hearers the duty devolving
upon woman, of seeking to make home
happy and pleasant, adding many items
relative to the subject of making a heaven
for ourselves, and concluded by saying she
would like the sisters to begin the New
Year by testifying to the goodness of God.
Counselor E. R. Snow in her remarks al-
luded to the promises made to the House
of Israel, and referred to the map of the
promised land as given by Ezekiel the Pro-
phet; also made some interesting remarks
about the Woman's Store, and the great in-
terest she had in the success of the efforts
made to establish home manufacture. She
also spoke earnestly upon the remonstrance
of the women of Utah in circulation,
against the bills now in Congress, which
are calculated to deprive us of rights and
privileges of citizenship in almost every
respect, politically, socially and religiously.
Counselor P. Woodruff said the sisters who
had spoken had expressed thoughts and
ideas which were in harmony with hers.
She felt it was necessary for all to live their
religion, and be prepared for all things, for
great events were at hand; we were daily
approaching a time of great importance.
She referred to the plain manifestation she
had received in the special meeting of Dec.
22, that if the sisters were united there
would be no danger of anything being done
to seriously injure our cause, but every-
thing would be in our favor. Mrs. E. S.
Barney spoke of many of the duties of life
being of special importance, small as well
as large ones; compared our position here
to a map with its latitude and longitude, its
smaller and larger points and so on. Spoke
earnestly and emphatically upon home-
manufactures, and especially silk culture,
the necessity of our energetic action in be-
coming self sustaining. Counselor E. How-
ard made some good remarks upon the
duties of life, and spoke of President
Young's farewell words to her on a certain
occasion: "Peace be with you;" said it
made a very strong impression upon her,
and ever since she had sought for peace by
cultivating it, and the Lord had blessed her
with it greatly. She spoke of observing
our fast-days, and gave some good counsel
to the sisters in regard to each Society
adopting some special branch of home in-
dustry, which it seemed to her would be
very beneficial.
	Counselor Zina D. Young spoke of the
Medical Lectures by Mrs. Romania B. Pratt,
M. D., and Mrs. Ellen B. Ferguson, M. D.
These lectures she thought should be at-
tended by our young ladies, who are to be
the future mothers of the race. She said
that she recently heard an Apostle say, that
if the education of either boys or girls was
necessarily to be neglected, it should be the
boys; for girls were to be the mothers of
the coming race, on which would rest the
building up of Zion. She also spoke upon
Celestial Marriage. Counselor B. W. Smith
wished the sisters a Happy New Year, and
made a few remarks, encouraging the sis-
ters to persevere. Several others made ap-
propoiate remarks, and a spirit of union
and good feeling prevaded the hearts of

[Column 2]
the sisters. Meeting adjourned until Sat-
urday, Jan. 19, at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms.

