YORK "INDEPENDENT."

	"Woman's Day" in the Senate. The an-
nouncement in the journals was made with
dignity and without comment. In the Sen-
ate the petitions were presented without
dignity, and with a few exceptions, with
comments which reflected deep discredit
on those who uttered them. It is a disgrace
to the United States Senate which cannot
be wiped out, that it will not receive a pe-
tition coming from thousands of honorable
women in the land without laughter, ridi-
cule, and sneers. No matter what the per-
sonal opinion of a Senator may be, the hon-
est petition of any citizen, black or white,
man or woman, is entitled by that citizen
ship to his "respectful consideration." At
least, he should be gentleman enough and
have self-respect enough, if he have ever so
little for the petitioner, to present her peti-
tion with the manner and in the tone of a
gentleman. If we needed any added proof
to the already too evident fact that, as an

[Column 2]

aggregate, the Congress of the American
people does not consist of gentlemen, we
have it in their tones, words, and manners
when they present a woman's petition.
Judging by these, you must believe that
nothing on earth is quite so "funny" as that
a tax-paying citizen—often the widowed
head of a family, an intelligent, educated,
thoughtful being—should ask that she have
some voice in the laws that govern her;
that she should, at least, be free to give
that "consent of the governed" on which
even the man-framed Constitution declared
all just government rests, which is not denied
the lowest creature that crawls, if so be he
happens to crawl in the shape of a man.
A woman of great nature could afford to
pity the men, Senators of the United States,
who that day made themselves look so small.
Had she not been sure that, as a creature of
God, she was greater than they, she might
well have bowed her head in humiliation
and covered herself with sackcloth and ashes
that more than ten thousand women, her
peers, have come to sue at such a court as
that. Is the caste of sex so all-pervading, so
omnipresent, that a man cannot read even
the petition of a woman without at once
dissolving into sneering laughter and inane
ridicule?
	In autocratic Russia to-day a woman sits
regent on the imperial throne, while her
husband and her four sons, beyond the
Danube, fight the battles of their religion
and their race. The third volume of the
"Life of the Prince Consort," just issued in
London, refutes forever a favorite assertion
of men that the Queen of England is but a
puppet in the government of her vast realm.
In pouring light upon the general manage-
ment of public business in England, it
shows us in unerring outline the Queen,
from the beginning of her reign to this day,
for forty years, attending personally with
the minutest attention to the routine busi-
ness of departments, "carefully studying
and weighing every subject, small or great,
which affects in the slightest the well-being
of her people." Let the women of the
world arise and bless her, that she, a wo-
man pre-eminent in station, has for forty
years proved herself equal to her opportuni-
ty. Not only wife, mother, woman among
the best, but "every inch a queen."	*	*
	Forty Senators presented petitions, signed
by thousands of men and women, asking
for a constitutional amendment enfranchis-
ing women. A few read the petitions as
they would any other, with dignity and
without comment; but the majority seemed
intensely conscious of holding something
unutterably funny in their hands. They
appeared to consider it a huge joke. The
entire Senate presented the appearance of a
laughing school practicing side-splitting
and ear extended grins. Mr. Wadleigh
leaned back in his chair and shook with
laughter, after portraying to his next neigh-
bor, Pinkney Whyte, of Maryland, the ap-
parition of Pinkney's landlady descending
upon the polls like a wolf on the fold, to
annihilate Pinkney's election—an avenging
landlady, of terrible repute for executive
temper, who, it is declared, imprisoned
Pinkney in his own parlor, and barricaded
another descendant of a signer of the De-
claration of Independence, Hiester Clymer,
till, to save him from starvation, food was
lifted to him from the street on poles. The
heir of the Pinkneys leaned back in his
senatorial chair and quaked at this vision
of the coming woman, while Wadleigh
laughed and laughed at the mental havoc
he had created. Oglesby, erst warrior of 
Illinois, spake with such endearing gallan-
try of his "dear constituents," whom he


did all his wit could do to make ridiculous
till the whole Senate laughed, and even
Roscoe Conkling, who never condescends
to sneer at a woman in public, turned and
listened and smiled his most sardonic smile.
Then Thurman blew his loudest regulation
blast—sure portent of approaching battle—
and rose and moved that the petitions be
referred to the Committee on Public Lands,
of which Oglesby is chairman. At this propo-
sition—intended to be equally humorous and
contemptuous—the whole Senate laughed
aloud. There was one Senator, man enough
and gentleman enough to lift the petition
from this insulting proposition. It was Sena-
tor Sargent, of California, the husband of the
woman who, though a Senator's wife, is
brave enough to be the treasurer of the Wo-
man's National Suffrage Association. He
turned to Mr. Thurman and demanded for
the petition of more than ten thousand wo-
men, at least the courtesy that would be giv-
en to any other petition. Whereupon Thur-
man, with a flippancy of which I would not
have believed him capable, if I had not seen
it, blew his nose anew, and declared that he
"only wished the petition referred to the
Committee on Public Lands that the wo-
men might have two strings to their bow!"
Then the craven Senate declared "the mo-
tion," which was only an insult, carried.
Let it be recorded of the Senate of the Uni
ted States of the forty-fifth Congress, that
the one petition which it received as a pre-
posterous joke, and treated with utter con-
tempt and outrage was the petition of tens
of thousands of the mothers, daughters, and
wives of the land; that the one petition
which they received and dropped with ut-
ter indifference was the petition against in-
temperance—the petition that seeks to
lighten the heavy load of degradation, mis-
ery, and murder that lies upen the land
and most heavily upon the hearts, the lives,
the homes of women.	*	*


