THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.

	Sitting alone, on this  last night of
the old year, my cogitations are somewhat
peculiar; my mind reverts back to many
events of the past year, and also in my past
life, from my earliest recollections to the
present time.  It is a familiar saying, that
coming events cast their shadows before;"
and to my mind it is no less true that past
events cast their shadows behind; for cer-
tainly if we do a mean action, it looms up
before us from the dim, misty past with
great prominence, casting a shadow of gloom
over our feelings, and putting a damper
upon us, at times when it would seem we
should feel most cheerful and light-hearted.
	Having been taught from childhood to
look upon the advent of a new year as the
turning over of a new leaf in the book of
life, in which I should profit by my past
experience, and strive to improve, my re-
flections are, consequently, of a somewhat
serious nature.
	Though we all have our peculiarities, and
are, constituted differently in many respects,
and all differ more or less from each other
in experience: still I believe that our med-
itations in their general outlines, at certain
times resemble each other, to a greater or
less extent, though they may vary greatly
in the little minutiae and details.  We
glance back over the past year and try to
sum up our lives and conduct, and find out
how our accounts stand, and, if the balance
is in our favor, we feel a degree of satisfac-
tion which money cannot buy; but, if the
contrary is the case, we are apt to feel that
our time is misspent, and some, whose dis-
positions are not the most hopeful, feel to
despond; this we should not do, but re-
member- it is never too late to improve;
thus we should take courage, aud feel a de-
termination to more than make up for our
past deficiencies before the next time of
settlement.  Our maxim should be "never
fail" in anything which we undertake that
is right and consistent.  The grand secret
of the success of many people is perseve-
rance; a strong, decisive, indomitable will
can accomplish much, especially if the per-
son possessing these qualities will allow
herself to be directed by the Spirit of God.
We learn by the teachings which we re-
ceive, that there is "a book of remem-
brance" kept, in which is recorded our ac-
tions, both good and bad, while we sojourn
here in the flesh, and out of this book shall
we be judged; and this should be an incen-
tive to us to do right, though it is certainly
not the only one, for the path of duty and
rectitude leads to happiness; and, more-
over, we cannot enjoy true happiness unless
we do live lives of honor and virtue.
	Life is but short at best, and filled up
with care and sorrow, pain and sickness, for
the most part, interspersed with here and
there a streak of brightness, a ray of sun-
shine, with a beacon of light in the far,
dim distance.  What is this beacon of 
light?  It is the hope of a glorious future;
something which we can scarcly under-
stand, or form any true conception of, but
which serves to encourage us on in the
journey of life.  And what are these bright
spots in our existence, which shine forth
with such glorious brillancy, illuminating
the darkness surrounding it, as would a
streak of lightning on a dark night?  They
are the kind words and actions given and
received, and it is said in the Scriptures,
"It is more blessed to give than to receive,"
and it certainly has a blessing attending it,
which, when once in possession of we could
not be induced to part with.  A kind word
cheers the lonely heart, and gives us cour-
age to bear up under the most trying cir-
cumstances, and lives in the memory for-
ever.  Then is it not best for us to do what
little good we can while life lasts, that we
may at least have the satisfaction of know-
ing that we have not entirely wasted our
time and the talents with which God has
endowed us.  Are there any of us but has
an ambition to be able to feel assured that
when we shall be called to leave this stage
of action, be the time long  or short, we shall
be missed by some one, that there shall be
some one in the wide world who can speak
a good word for us?
	If we have anything against another,
now is the time to have it righted, and 
start with a clean sheet, so that when we
shall stand, as it were on the eve of another
year, as we do to night, we may be able to
look back with still greater satisfaction than
we can at the present time, that there may
fall to our lot more of joy, and less of sor-
row, and that we may at last be greeted
with that welcome plaudit, "Well done
thou good and faithful one, enter into rest,"
is my desire.				KATE.


