					S. L. CITY, Jan., 1858.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Perhaps it is interesting for you to know how
the Young Ladies Retrenchment Association
of the 17th Ward is progressing. At the re-
quest of Sup't. M. E. Kimball a Special Meet-
ing convened at the residence of Mrs. Julia
Howe, on the evening of the 9th inst., where a
few, mostly officers, met. Sister M. E. Kim-
ball then stated the object of the meeting; a
committee was then formed to present the
thirty yards of carpet which they had made
for the benefit of the Temple of this City, and
all present felt grateful for the privilege of con-
tributing that much for so good a cause. Sis-
ter Kimball and Sister Howe made some con-
gratulatory remarks upon what we had accom-
plished, and gave some wise counsel for our fu-
ture conduct, after which they bid adieu to the
Juvenile Retrenchment Society—expecting


[Column 1]
one organized on a larger and improved plan
to take its place.  A pair of beautiful vases
were then presented to Assistant Superintend-
ent Howe, at whose house we have convened
so often for more than two years.  Dismissed
in the usual manner.
	EMMA F. BROWN, Pres't.
	EDITH SMITH, Sec'y.
	The Annual Meeting of the Young Ladies'
Society of the Tenth Ward was held on Thurs-
day Jan. 12, in the Ward Meeting House.  A
goodly number of ladies were present.  The
house was very beautifully and artistically
decorated with festoons and bouquets of ever-
greens and artificial flowers, made by the
young girls of the Wad, which gave a most
pleasing appearance to the hall.  Mrs. M. J.
Pierce presided.  Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs.
M. I. Horne, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. E. How-
ard, Mrs. E. A. Whitney, and Mrs. E. B. Wells,
each addressed the meeting.  The subjects were
duties of women, the necessity of being self-
sustaining, home-manufactures, home litera-
ture, and the promotion of all things which
are a help to the Latter-day work.  These sub-
jects and the minuti[-]e which make up the sum
of the whole matter, were spoken upon by the
sisters earnestly, and in the spirit of the Gos-
pel.  The sisters who visit from time to time,
the various wards and settlements in the inter-
est of the Relief Society and Mutual Improve-
ment Associations, well deserve the appellation
of home missionaries for they are exerting a
powerful influence for good in the midst of
Zion.
	THE TWENTY-THIRD session of the Territor-
ial Legislature Assembly convened in the City
Hall, Nov. Jan. 14, at 2 o'clock and were duly
organized in both Houses.  President of Coun
cil, Hon. Lorenzo Snow:  House of Representa
tives, Hon. Orson Pratt, Speaker.  Secretary
L. P. Luckey administered the customary oath
to members and officers.  Chaplain for the
House Elder Helaman Pratt.  Two young la-
dies are employed as clerks in the House, Miss
Joan M. Campbell and Miss Dora Pratt.  All
the counties of Utah are represented except
Tooele, which has no representatives as yet.  A
Committee of both Houses waited upon the
Governor of Utah to inform His Excellency
the Assembly was organized.  This Committee
reported, the Governor would communicate
with the House, Tuesday at 2 o'clock.  Some
special business relating to suitable materials
for use of the members during the session,
newspaper, stamps, etc., also public printing
mail matter, etc. was transacted; minute
were read and after these and other prelimi-
nary arrangements, the Assembly adjourned
until Tuesday, 1 o'clock p. m.
	DESERET SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret
Silk Association met in the Fireman's Hall,
Jan. 11th, Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young said she was very well satisfied
with what had been done.
	Father Graves said he had met with good
success in his travels. The meetings he held
were well attended. Prospects for the future
were encouraging.
	Mr. A. C. Pyper said we had more skill than
we had leaves to feed the worms.  He urged
the people to plant out mulberry trees; also
showed the necessity of co-operating, in order
to make the work lighter and enable learners
to get a better knowledge of how to manipulate
the worm to better advantage.  He advised
those planting out trees to put them as near
as possible to the cocoonery and avoid a great
amount of extra labor.  The ladies in the
Twelfth Ward were going to plant out two

[Column 2]
thousand trees behind the school-house next
season.
	There being no business, a motion was made
to adjourn for one week, then to effect a per-
manent organization, to which meeting all in-
terested in silk raising are cordially invited,
more especially in Salt Lake County.
	R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


