				[CONTINUED.]

	Now I want to guide and direct to our bene-
fit. I want these my sisters to take into con-
sideration what we can do with regard to sus-
taining ourselves. Say you, "Let us go to work
and lay the foundation of it." In a great many
places there is a foundation of it laid out,
which is very good. Now, I want you to go to
work and say, we will make all our head dress-
es, we will make all the hats the men need to
wear; we have plenty straw and materials, we
will do this. "Now you have an object, Broth-
er Brigham." Yes, I have, more than one ob-
ject; and the great object is to show our Heav-
enly Father that we have come out from Baby-
lon, and are capable of taking care of our-
selves. When we come to finances, I want the
people to be rich instead of poor. The course
we are now taking is beggaring the people—
running into debt for this folly and that folly,
and for everything that they can see. Why,
let the merchant come and bring the follies of
Babylon, we want them immediately. "Why,
yes, we can make all the straw hats, if you
will take them." I will tell you what else I
want, I want the sisters to say to themselves,
and then to their daughters, sisters and friends,
"We will wear that which we will make, or
we will wear nothing; we will make what we
wear on our heads; we will make our own hats
and bonnets." Now men, will you patronize
this? "Yes." Then get our husbands to say,
"we will not buy one of the hats from these
stores, if they bring them by the car l[-]ad."
Well, there will be a great deal saved to this
Stake of Zion; probably more than twenty
thousand dollars. Then say to your husbands,
"now go and build a tannery, that the hides
that come off our beef cattle can be made into
leather." And then, say to your husbands, "I
want you to understand that I am perfectly, ab-
solutely opposed to your course of life, unless
you make some leather." Then, sisters go to
work and make up this leather, the labor is in
the shade, and a great deal of this work can be
done by machinery; but it can be done by
hand. We have one sister in Salt Lake City,
who started twenty-three years ago boot and
shoe making; she has made herself a little for-
tnne; she has plenty to live on; she has worked
with her own hands until she has accumula-
ted property enough to sustain her. My young
sisters instead of sitting continually at the
piano and getting the consumption, take hold
and build up Zion. The first thing is to do
something for yourselves, and learn to labor;
and when one thing is done, take up another
item, and con[-]inue until we manufacture
everything that we need here.
	I will say to those who are raising sheep,
do not send your wool away. "Why, it will
be said, "a fool and his money are soon part-
ed." Save your wool and send it to the factory.
If we want a little cotton cloth, we can raise it
in the southern country; and we can raise

[Column 2]
some here, as well as in some other places. We
can raise about two gatherings. In the best of
the States they will gather from three to four.
We can raise our cotton in the south, and save
our wool here. Go to and save your wheat.
Tell the people of this Stake of Zion not to sell
their grain. "We are in debt," says one.
What brought you in debt? "Oh, I wanted a
thresher and a mowing machine." Where do
you live? How much grass have you to cut?
"One hundred and fifty acres." How many
mowing machines have you got? "Only eight."
Buy another and another machine, and cloth
from the stores that is nothing in the world
but shoddy, with but enough of wool to hold it
together—buy these, and buy more than you
can pay for. Go into debt and pauperize the
whole community, instead of building up Zion.
I want you to stop. When we are in a posi-
tion to build up ourselves, we are building up
Zion. Let us sustain ourselves.


