VOL. 2.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1873.		No. 11.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	ACCOUNTS OF the bankruptcy of men of for-
tunes are becoming more and more frequent
in the news columns of the daily papers.
	KATE STODDARD has been indicted for
the murder of Goodrich. Being a woman,
and not wealthy, she will likely be con-
victed.
	PERE HYACINTHE, they say has aban-
donded the clerical garb. So he don’t
abandon his wife wo can overlook the
other.
	A WESTFIELD, Mass., post-office clerk
has been arrested for stealing registered
letters. Why will young men place them-
selves in the way of temptations?
	A NATIVE of Japan was lately arrested in
San Francisco; his crime was burglary.
He was the first of his race ever arrested in
that city, but will probably not be the last.
	A FAVORITE actress of New York, Miss
Agnes Ethel, was lately married to Fran-
cis W. Tracy, of Buffalo. The most sensible
part perhaps, ever played by the winsome
maiden.
	AIR EXCHANGE publishes as an item of
news, that “Currency is scarce.” We won-
der at this, for the story is so old, we
thought oyery body knew it, almost every-
where.
	THE CHINAMEN at Mokelumo Hill, Cali-
fornia, quarrelled  got mad, and want
to burn up the town; but the white citizens
stand guard and don’t let them. Cruel
white men!
	A WAR has lately broken out in Panama,
between Nerra, the present President, and
General Cornoza, recently deposed from
that office. They can’t both fill the same
position, so they quarrel about it.
	SINCE THE financial panic, which com-
menced in New York, it is estimated that
from 8,000 to 10,000 persons have been
thrown out of work. And no work moans
no bread for most people who will work
now-a-days.
	THE AMERICAN Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion held its fourth anniversary meeting on
the 13th ult., in Boston. A large audience
assembled, of which, fully two thirds are
reported tn have been men. The women’s
cause progresses.
	REPORTS of the  Farmers’ Convention,
organized in Chicago lately, show that
favorable results are likely to accrue from
the resolutions adopted and the questions
discussed, which will prove advantageous
to farm laborers generally.
	THE CARLISTS of Spain have been carry-
ing off women at Vera for seamstresses, to
make uniforms.  Among those stolen, was
a young woman, who was the owner of a
dowery of $35,000. The Carlists are evi-
dently no respecters of persons.
	BISHOP DEVERE, of the French scttle-
ment, St. Pierre, was recently assassinated
while at prayer in the sacristy of the chapel
of St. Jean de Dieu. Safety from violence
is not to be anticipated, even in what is con-
sidered the most sacred sanctuary,
	AN ACCOUNT is given in a late paper, of a
[Solumn 2]
little boy living some where in New York,
who went to Sabbath School in the morning
and recited two hundred verses from the
Testament; and in the afternoon caught fish
enough to stock a river. If that boy lives,
he will, without doubt become a minister,
or an officer of public trust some day.
	DR. MCCREADY testified in the Stokes
trial lately that he believed Fisk died of
the narcotic drugs administered and not of
the wound. And Dr. Carnochan testified
that whether the wound was fatal or not,
the immediate cause of death was coma.
Couldn’t they prove that Charley Goodrich
came to his death by  an over dose of
whisky?
	IT HAS been understood that after
the present instant, in conseqlittlee of
the late financial failures, the wages of em-
ployes on some of the railroads in the
States will be reduced from 15 to 20 per
cent. If care and responsibilities de-
crease in proportion with the wages, there
will be a continued round of accidents to
record.
	THE “MARY E. Poe,” a large stern wheel
vessel, was recently burned on the Missis-
sippi river, ten miles above Osceola, Arkan-
sas. The pilot, Hans Cowan, was burned
badly before he left his post. Out of 65
passengers, only four were reported missing
after the occurrence. That speaks better
for the officers of the “Poe,” than if the
clerk’s report had been “all lost.”
	GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN arrived in New
York a short time since, from Europe;
remained about a week, and having become
disgusted with the ways of the country in
that time, sailed away again, leaving for-
ever, he said. But the world in its revo-
lutions will be most likely to roll him back
again.
	A LITTLE five year old daughter of Wes-
ley Bennett was at play with her brother in
a stubble field that was being burned, in
Cana, California, on the 17 ult., when the
flames overtook her and burned her so
badly that she died soon afterward. Every
accident of the kind above stated, should
be a warning to others, to avoid the ap-
proach of danger.
	A MEMBER of the Homeopathic Medical So-
ciety of the State of Pennsylvania, Dr. Jacob
G. Wiestllng, lately tendered his resig-
nation; announcing that he would not
belong to a society which admitted women
to membership. His resignation was read-
ily accepted on the condition that his dues
for the current year should be paid. Any
society might congratulate itself on so
happy a riddance.
	AN ENGLISH stock raiser paid $40,000 for
one cow at a recent sale, at New York Mills,
near Utica, N. Y. and another man lately
paid $50,000 for a trotting horse. To en-
courage improvement in the quality of
stock is praiseworthy, to say the least; but
the extravagance of woman need not longer
be hooted at, since some men can afford to
gratify their own ambitious vanity by pay-
ing such prices as the above, for a fancy
cow and a fine horse.
	MEMPHIS STILL groans under the burden
of the terrible plague with which she is
{Column 3
afflicted. As late as the 22nd ult., loud
calls for help were made by officers of the
city, they testifying that the yellow fever
was not abating and that more help than
ever was required. Donations were re-
qested from all sympathizers with suffering
humanity, to assist in paying the expenses
of the sick; to be sent to A. D, Longstaff,
President of the Howard Association, Mem-
phis, Tennessee. Helping hands should not
be withheld. What city can judge when
her own time of suffering may commence?
	A CORRESPONDENT at Lake George,
writes thus of a sensible girl: “We have
a young lady here, the daughter of Colonel
Montgomery, U. S. A., who can row a boat
better than most men She is a girl of
splendid physique and healthy tone of
mind. Without regard to her complexion,
she goes out on the water morning, noon
and evening. Fortunately for her, the sun
beautifies and does not disfigure, for she
only looks fresli and rosy, without any tan
or redness. The girls who are passing the
season in fine dresses and only take piazza
exercise because their dress unfits them for
any other, may well envy Miss Montgomery
the pleasurable recollections she will carry
with her of her summer at Lake George.”
	AT PROSPECT Park Brooklyn, the colossal
bust of John Howard Payne, author of “Home
Sweet Home,” was recently unvailed and
presented to the Park, in the presence of a vast
concourse of people. The bust is mounted
on a highly polished granite pedestal, being
itself a bright bronze. On the occasion of
its being unvailed, exercises of a pleasing
and appropriate nature are reported to have
been performed; among which is mentioned
the singing of “America” by a chorus
of six hundred children accompanied
by music; the reading of a poem com-
posed for the occasion by John George
Saxe and an address by Mr. Do Witt. The
song of “Sweet Home,” short and simple as
it is, has been the single, beautiful, uncon-
scious immortalizer of the name of its
author.
	IT IS always worth while to interest chil-
dren and teach them good principles by
telling them good, sensible stories, or talk-
ing with them about the beautiful lives of
the pure and honorable who have lived
upon the earth. The following instance is
related in the “Floral Cabinet:” A gentle-
man tells that many years ago, he was on a
visit to the Isle of Man, and during his
walks he strolled into the quiet church-
yard, where reposed the bodies of many a
faithful anil humble Christian. Near a
grave in the corner of the church-yard he
noticed a lady with a little girl (the latter
about twelve years of age), to whom she
was relating the story of the dairyman’s
daughter, whose remains lay beneath their
feet. As the lady proceeded with the nar-
rative, he noticed the little girl lift up her
eyes filled with tears, and heard her say
that she would try and be as good as the
dairyman’s daughter had been. After
planting a beautiful lily on the grave, they
walked slowly away. The gentleman, upon
making inquiry, found that the lady was
the Duchess of Kent, and the little girl her
daughter, The latter is now the Queen of
England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE DEAD SEA— A MONUMENT.
	
	Though “dead,” it is a living Monument.
'Tis peerless, archless. towerless, and though
Devoid of every architectural
Embelishment, it justly claims to be
The prince of monuments in Palestine.
	It is a monument of Justice, and
Of righteous doom of crime and wickedness—
A speechless, speaking monument of wrath
Divine poured out on guilitines
Of dark abominations Monitor
Of warning to the generations past—
The present, and to all that are to come
	It stands where stood the “Cities of the Plains"—
Where Sodom and Gomorrah, steep'd in sin.
Were first devoured by fire, then swallow’d up!
	Its dense, saline preserving properties
Are morally significant of the
Great purpoes of God concerning sin—
Whene’er iniquity attains its full,
To sweep it with destruction’s bosom, and
To ultimately purity the earth.
	O’er cliffs precipitous—thro’ winding trails—
Rocky activities and frightful steeps—
At times, in zig-zag course, to cut the heights
That otherwise were inaccecssible,
O'er looking dark abysses—gaping chasms,
And sometimes beautiful sequstered deals,
Where Nature most successfully has made
Attempts at wild and grand sublimity;
We went in search of this strange monument,
And found it nestled quietly beneath
Judea’s mountains, on a sterile plain,
Where solitude in solemn silence reigns.
	This Sea, when seen as we beheld it—’neath
The cloudless monday sun, “is beautiful.
The lucid rays appeared on crystaline
To fall, creating myriads of gems
That sparkling, glowed with dazzling brilliancy,
As though the Sea’s smooth crest were overrpressed
With little shining pearls—most bounteously,
To crown with gaiety the briny deep.
	We gazed upon the Sea: ’Twas motionless,
As in reverence for the Almighty power
Of Deity, whose awful mandate called
It into being. In deep silence wrapped—
Without a sound of moving waters, or
The gentle murmur of a stirring wave,
All, all is silence, and this silence speaks
Far more impressively than uttered tones.
	"'Tis God’s own Monument, and proof against
The wreck of Ages, and the waste of Time.
					MISS ELIZA R. SNOW
JERUSALEM, March 3, 1873.


R.S. REPORTS.

	Secretary Miss M. A. Jenkins reports the
sixty-eighth meeting of the Senior and
Junior C. R. A., held October 11th, 1873,
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms. The
secretaries of the Young Ladies Associations,
of the 4th and 8th Wards read reports of
meetings held. Pride and extravagance
were spoken of, and the sisters were warned
against them. Improvement in knowledge
and grace was the principal subject upon
which instructions were given.


[Column 1]	
			I CAN'T.

	"I Can't" is a word we often hear, some-
times from the lips of a poor, tired body,
sometimes from one whose care and mental
labors have almost exhausted the brain. "I
Can't" we hear, as mother lays down her
unthreaded needle, "I Can't," says a non-
active one, whose powers have always
depended on another, and has idly lain.
"I can't, toil as you do, if I never have
a home," are the words of your borrowing
neighbor.
	"I Can't," never wrote a piece for the
paper. "I Can't" pay you, now sir, when
the banks have all broken. "I Can't help
it now, I did it when I was mad;" and "I
Can't" we hear every day from some people.
Then, what is the matter with "I Can't?"
"I Can't" the father, mother, and son, are
for ever idle and nothing is done. But
shall we all be called idlers? No! Mother,
tired body, rest! Let me assist you to

[Column 2]
accomplish your wise plans, that you may
long live to bless your child. Let me share
your cares, to ease your brain. Let me
sew and read for you, to rest your eyes.
But Mrs. Idler, braid your straw, and
make your hats, and be a producer of the
comforts of life; if you do not like to
be called lazy. And do not snuff up your
nose at "I'll Try," till it is so puggy that
you are ashamed to look in the glass.
	Get at your work early in the morning,
if you want to put money in the Savings
Bank. and save your paper rags if you want
papers to read. Build a fence around your
farm if you do not want your crops har-
vested by your neighbor's cows; and be
always well employed if you want a friend
in need; and write for the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, if you have better ideas than these;
and remember the Mormon Creed, "Mind
your own business." Pull your own garden
weeds. Controll your ugly temper. Don't
provoke your neighbor. If you will do all
this, dear reader you will have a friend in
misfortune, respect in old age, and a hope
beyond the grave. Make friends with "I'll
Try," who will do better than "I Can't."
	Let us hear from "I'll Try."
	Dear Reader, I am sorry that I am so busy
just now, but "I'll Try" will take the time
to see if she can find something that will
interest you. Suppose I tell you something
of myself. When I was a little child, it
was very hard for me to learn, but necessity
compelled me, and a thought, "I'll Try,"
came to my mind, and to wake the mind
from a stupor and lethargic state, was the
work I set about. Hard tugging, and slowly,
I gained the ascendency, little by little
only.
	There was a feeble whispering within my
heart, that said, "There is a future that you
must prepare for;" and then Pride stepped
forth and said, "I'll Try to finish my work."
Perseverance was the only chance for the
salvation of an existence I already had, and
to live was a visible fact, upon which I
could not shut my eyes. Then reason
taught me, that it was better to live pro-
perly, to be a vessel of honor, than one of dis-
honor, and many a lesson I've learned by
bitter experience which was the result of
"I'll Try." I was not cradled in riches
from a child to womanhood! Had I been,
perhaps my hands would have been too
white to soil, my frame too delicate to bear
burdens, and my petted and pampered
spirit, too morose and pompous to be
chided, and taught and trained, in a proper
manner; and thereby my propelling powers
against the tide of life would have been
blunted. I was bereft of parents at an early
age. Was this a misfortune, or a blessing
in disguise?
	Dear reader, I have since learned to
acknowledge the hand of God in all things,
although I have always felt that the sweets
of my existence was then abstracted and
supplanted with stern realities. Parents
generally remove the brambles and briars
from beneath the little one's feet, and place
beneath their aching heads downy pillows.
I have often thought of parents, when I
have stepped upon the thorn. By their
loss I've  learned a self-support. Did my
brain still sleep? No; it had to waken to a
life of activity. I learned A, then B, and
that twice two was four; I then chewed
the corners off the book called grammar,
and left it to digest—looked at the geogra-
phy, and concluded that the best way to
learn it was to travel. But I have tried to
sail in my own latitude. I did not like to
go too far North, because it was too ice-

[Column 3]
burgy, and I did not like to go too far
South for I always had a dread of too hot
water, and I did not like to go too high up,
for I was afraid the air would be so light
that my brain would be troubled with
vanity. I thought, "I'll Try, to seek my
own level." I never studied romance, for
I concluded there was enough of that in my
own nature. "I'll Try" has surmounted
many difficulties, and is still waring with
the flesh, in hopes to maintain her expecta-
tion sof her parents who left her to try.
	But, dear reader, before I leave you,
I will tell you that by my own industry, I
am furnished with a comfortable home, and
am wrsting by a warm fire which are the
results of
					"I'LL TRY."
Oct. 18th, 1873.


RULES OF CONVERSATION FOR
		YOUNG LADIES.

		CONCLUDED.
	There is great danger of the young and
ardent doing injustice to their companions,
by magnifying trifles, drawing large con-
clusions from small premises, and judging
from a partial knowledge of facts. How
often have we seen a young girl, all eager-
ness to tell some extraordinary thing about
a companion, and representing some trifling
occurrence as the most atrocious ill conduct;
when, the very next hour, perhaps, has
brought to light some circumstance that
changes entirely the whole aspect of the
case, and shows that all her excitement was
wasted on a mistake. It is a good rule nev-
er to believe anything on mere report, that
is inconsistent with what you already know
of a person. Consider how much more prob-
able it is that there is some error in the state-
ment, than that a trustworthy man or woman
should do something entirely out of charac-
ter. When some false rumor about yourself
or family reaches your ear, instead of being
provoked by it, lay it up as a lesson against
believing what you hear reported of others.
	Talking ironically is sometimes indulged
in to such an excess as to become very tire-
some to the hearers. A little dash of irony
enlivens conversation, and when well and
sparingly introduced it is pleasant enough;
but some girls have such a habit of it, that
on all occasions, to persons of all ages, all de-
grees of intimacy and acquaintance, on all
subjects, whether grave or gay, they will
answer you in that strain. All reverence for
age and superior wisdom, and all sense of
propriety are sacrificed to the indulgence of
this propensity, whilst they are unconscious
of its being in excess. To make the whole
strain of conversation ironical, is like serv-
ing up a dinner composed wholly of gravies,
sauces, and condiments without one substan-
tial dish. In like manner all jesting, banter-
ing, and quizzing should be very sparingly
indulged in, and with constant reference to
the feelings of others, or you may inflict a
wound before you are aware of it.—"English
Paper."


HUSBANDS AND WIVES.—Happiness can
only be secured by that constant tenderness
and care of the parties for each other which
are based upon warm and demonstrative
love. The heart demands that the man
shall not sit reticent, self-absorbed, and
silent in the midst of his family. The
woman who forgets to note and provide for
the peculiarities of her husband's tastes and
wishes renders her home undesirable for
him. In a word, ever-present and ever-
demonstrative gentleness must reign, or
else the heart starves.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[First column]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	CHILDREN EATING.—Whenever a parent
sees a child come to the breakfast-table, nib-
ble a little, then go away, there is solid
ground for apprehension of coming ill in
some form or other. This want of appetite
for breakfast may come on very slowly; it
may be weeks before it is decided enough to
be marked; so much the worse for the child,
because greater will be the difficulty in right-
ing things.
	If children are going to school, eating
should be made compulsory, or brain diease
will follow, sooner or later, for the brain
must be nourished, or restless sleep follows,
and in its train dreams, nervousness, cold
feet and hands, with severe debility.
	All school children should have plenty of
good wholesome food for breakfast and din-
ner, with all the fruit and berries they can
get afterwards as desert; if not these, then
no desert at all. A speedy and easy way to
remedy meal-time nibbling is to begin with
a supper of bread and butter, and one cup of
hot milk and water, and nothing else; allow 
not an atom of anything to be eaten between
meals, and compel them to be in bed by nine
o'clock. Within a week a hearty breakfast
will be the result, with an increasing vivac-
ity, activity, life and enjoyment.—"Chris-
tian Weekly."
	THE HOUSE will be kept in continual tur-
moil when there is no toleration of each
other's feelings, no meek submission to in-
juries, and no soft answer to turn away
wrath. If you lay a single stick of wood in
the grate, and apply fire to it, it will go out;
put on another stick, and they will burn;
and half a dozen and you will have an effec-
tive blaze. There are other fires subject to
the same condition. If one member of a
family gets into a passion, and is left alone,
he will cool down, and possibly be ashamed
and repent. But oppose temper to temper,
let one harsh answer be followed by another,
and there will soon be a blaze which will
enwrap them in its burning heat.
	WHAT COMSUMPTIVE NEED.—The late
Dr. Marshall Hall, of England, said: "If I
were seriously ill of consumption, I would
live out doors day and night, except in rainy
weather or mid-winter; then I would sleep
in an unplastered log-house. Physic has no
nutriment, gasping for air cannot cure you,
monkey capers in a gymnasium cannot cure
you. What consumptives want is air, not
physic—pure air, not medicated air—plenty 
of meat and bread."
	HOW TO IRON PANTS, COATS, ETC.--Pants
can be made to look very nicely after wash-
ing them by brushing clear from all particles
of line, turn wrong side out, press all the
seams with a hot flat over a press-board,
turn back to the right side, wet a piece of
white muslin in clear water, rinsing out,
spread over a portion of the pants (which
have previously been folded smoothly), iron
over the muslin until completely dry, re-
move, wet again, put over a new place and
iron again; do this until the whole surface
has been gone over.
	GREEN TOMATO PICKLES.—To every gal-
lon of sliced tomatoes add two tablespoons-
ful of salt, and let them stand over night.
Do not pour off the liquor, but add two-thirds
of a pound of sugar, one pint grated horse-
radish, two tablespoonsful of mustard. Put
a weight on the top and set near the fire or
in a warm place until they become sour,
when they should be kept in a cool place.
The juice of the tomatoes forms the vinegar,
and if some are partly ripe it is all the bet-
[Second column]
ter. No scum rises on the top, and they will
keep a long time.
	LEMON JELLY CAKE.—Two cups of sugar,
one small cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet
milk, two and one-half cups of flour, four
eggs, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-
half teaspoonful of soda. Bake in thin layers.
For the jelly take the juice and rind of three
lemons, or five if small, one pound of sugar,
one-quarter pound of butter, six eggs; beat
together and scald like custard. When cool
spread between the cakes. Ice the top.
	DEAD SHOT FOR INSECTS.—Strong alum
water is a sure death to bugs of any descrip-
ion. Take two pounds of pulverized or crys-
tal alum, and dissolve in three quarts of
boiling water, allowing it to remain over the
fire until thoroughly dissolved. Apply, while
hot, with a brush, or, what is better, use a
syringe to force the liquid into the cracks of
the walls or bedstead. The pulverized alum
is worth about 50 cents a pound, and that
in crystal from 15 to 20—a cheap remedy.
The latter requires a little longer time to
dissolve. Of course an experiment to verify
the claim above made, can be made by ap-
plying a mere fraction of the quantities above
named. A less perfect cure for insect pests
is to scatter the powdered alum freely in
places where they abide. Powdered borax,
scattered thinkly where Croton bugs and cock-
roaches travel or abide, will expel them at
once. It is a sure expulsion for the Croton
insect. Almost all strong saline solutions are
efficacious in the destruction of these house-
hold pests, which are both destructive and
annoying, and the mixture of alum or any
other material need not necessarily be hot.


TO TEACHERS.
	The following hints which may be prof-
itable to many young teachers, and scholars,
also, for they should be as suggestive to the
latter as to the former, we clip from the
"American Journal of Education."
	Take care of your health. By this is
not meant only avoidance of severe colds,
for every person will be careful here, nor
caution against dangerous and contagious
diseases.
	It is the "little foxes that spoil the
vines." it is the little irregularities that
interfere with the success of teacher or
pupil.
	Improper food, improper times or quanti-
ties, resulting in dyspepia or any form of
indigestion, will prevent clearness of men-
tal activity and success in any study.
	If every member of school or college had
at the start a good knowledge of himself
hygenically, so as to guard against constitu-
tional ailments, half the labor in getting
an education would already be accomplished.
	"Do not worry!" It is easier to say this
than it was for the writer to practice it
when he first taught school!
	Night after night was passed without
sleep; visions, before the morbidly excited
brain, would pass and repass, as the battles
of the school room were fought over again.
The result was bad on teacher and scholars.
And yet there is no royal road to self-con-
trol in this respect.
	One suggestion, however: The teacher
should have got cheerful company out of
school hours, and not shut himself up like a
hermit to brood over troubles! Take out-
door exercise; go among the people; visit
the homes of the pupils; seek congenial
society at all events, and have faith in your-
self and your God, and troubles of this kind
will vanish.


[For the Exponent.
		SING TO THE BABIES.

	Sing to the babies! lay upon the cool pil-
lows or cuddle them tenderly upon your
breast, and sing soft and low the gentle
strains which shall linger in the soul, when
childhood, with all its appealing helpless-
ness, its confiding innocence, its sweet won-
derment at seeming vastness of the opening
life which in youthful eyes looks so alluring,
has flown forever.
	When all that seemed so desirable has
come to appear as worthless clay, when care-
worn and world-weary, what untold sweet-
ness is in the memory of the songs which
lulled to sleep in infancy when mother hung
over the cradle with eyes filled with celes-
tial tenderness, and voice laden with such
soothing softness that baby grief fled far
away and earth seemed a veritable paradise.
	When the sun sets and languid twilight
makes little eyelids heavy, and the day's
unceasing activity has wearied the pattering
feet, then all other matters should, if possi-
ble, be laid aside, and mother should be able
to give her entire attention to the children.
Lave the tired limbs in tepid water, robe in
sleeping-garments, fold the little hands lov-
ingly and teach the lisping voice to give
thanks to God, or confess the little indiscre-
tions. Do not fail to teach the little one to
pray, for, were there truly no tender angels,
no kind Heavenly Father to listen, prayer,
the utterance of his own peculiar and per-
sonal needs and aspirations, sets the child
face to face with himself, and is one great
step toward the all-important and oft-repeat-
ed lesson, "Know Thyself." Then sing in
the spirit of thanksgiving and meekness and
the child, sinking to sleep in so holy and
peaceful an atmosphere will imbibe a rever-
ence for the Creator, a purity of soul which
all the varied scenes of after life can never
wholly obliterate.
	Even vice and misery cannot drown the
sweet influence which, under such circum-
stances, will be the pearl to redeem the mire
of a mistaken life; and in the happiest con-
ditions a memory so sweet that wealth and
fame could not buy it.
	It will bear with it, for mother's sake, a
deeper tenderness and respect for woman-
kind, a firmer trust in Divine Providence,
than years of study and observation. And
Oh, the lonely infant hearts cheered, the
doubting ones comforted, the rebellious
ones soothed by being folded close in moth-
er's loving embrace and listening to the low
music of her voice!				L. L. D.


KNOWLEDGE OF COMMON THINGS.—Car-
lyle laments that when he was a boy he had
no teacher to instruct him as to the nature
and qualities of the things about him, such
as trees, rocks, grasses, water — to talk
to him about the stars, and show him
about the constellations, etc. That lamenta-
tion is one very many have to make. In-
deed, we sometimes think that education
ought to begin somewhat at the other end
of it. That is, that we should be taught
earlier of the things that are nearest to us.
Here is the ground we tread on, and the
dust we kick up when we walk. What
child, yes, or what man, can tell us of what
it consists, where it comes from, or how
made? The grass we walk over, the stones
which boys throw at the geese, what do they
know of the substance of these stones? These
are the last things we learn. Ought not
this method to be reversed? Should we
not learn, first of all, about the things which
are right under our eyes, and under our
feet?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

[Column 1}
	THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horn, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

			SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 1, 1873.


     AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.

	Like most journals of distinguished aims for
good and useful ends, the EXPONENT has met
with difficulties in struggling to establish a
permanent basis, by awakening the sympa-
thies and securing the co-operation of those
who should feel most interest in its behalf.
Yet, notwithstanding all the besetments it has
had to encounter, its course so far has been un-
usually successful, and its present prospects
are bright and encouraging.
	The following list of names should imply
that already its friends are not few. It is de-
sired however, that others be added, until at
least one lady in each settlement in the Terri-
tory, shall be known as an acting agent for the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Officers of Relief Socie
ties, where no agents, or insufficient numbers
have yet been appointed,are politely solicited to
select capable,active women, who will be pleas-
ed to act and forward their names as agents.
Bishops, postmasters, and all good men, will
please remember and consider that an especial,
respectful and standing invitation is extended,
for them to use their influence to increase the
circulation and assist the progress of this little
journal.
	Should mistakes appear in the following list,
corrections will be cheerfully received and
published.
			AGENTS.
			Salt Lake Ctiy.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
  "	Margt. P. Young,	  "	Amanda Kimball
  "	Lily Staines,		  "	Elizabeth Davis,
  "	Sarah Smith,		  "	Hampton, 16th
  "	Mary J.Tliomson,				Ward,
  "	Margaret Steel,	  "	Sarah E. Smith,
		   Miss Sarah E. Russell.
[Column 2]
		CORRESPONDENTS.
  "	Laura Miner,		  "	E.B. Wells,
  "	A. B, Smith,		Miss Mary A. Cook.
		   Oneida County, Idaho.
Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
  "	Mary Rich, Paris.
			 Rich County. 
  "	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
			Cache County.
  "	M. A. Mauglian, Logan,
  "	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield. 
		    Box Elder County.
  "	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			Davis County.
  "	Ann Clark, Farmington
  "	Aurelia Rogers,
  "	Margaret Randell, Centreville,
  "	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
  "	Susan Grant,		     "
  "	Sylvia Clark,		     "
		    Salt Lake County.
  "	–––– Higgins, West Jordan,
  "	Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot- 
		tonwood.
			Utah County.
  "	–––– Brown, Pleasant Grove,
  "	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
  "	–––– Harrison,			     "
			Juab County.
  "	Amelia Goldsbrough, 
  "	Ann Pitchforth, Nephi. 
		     Sanpete County.
  "	M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
		City,
  "	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
  "	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
		     Millard County.
  "	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
  "	Belinda M. Pratt,	"
Miss Mary Callister,	"
		     Beaver County.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
  "	L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
			Iron County.
  "	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
Miss Josephine Smith,	"
			Kane County.
Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
  "	Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
		Cedar City.
		   Washington County.
  "	Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
		St George,
  "	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.


SPLINTERS.

	In Savannah, Georgia, they are experi-
menting with female street car conductors.
......It is said that base-ball professionals are
better paid than nine-tenths of the minis-
ters......In Lake Minnetonka, Minnesota, a
valuable guano island has lately been dis-
covered......The hair is worn very plain
and low on the neck by ladies just returned
from Europe and it is said to be a style "all
the rage” in Paris......The Agricultural
College of Ohio has one female student......
Great varieties of game abound in the fields
of Louisiana, and more abundant this season
than at any previous time since the war......
Lately, two babies were sent by express
several hundred miles in Oregon, arriving
all safe......The Emperor of Brazil is cred-
ited with standing six feet, four inches, in
his boots......President Grant and three
Generals, Sherman, Sheridan and Hooker,
narrowly escaped being run over by a coal
train in Pittsburg the other day......General
Beauregard met with a slight accident by
his horse falling under him, while riding
over the Bull Run battle field recently, for
the first time since the war......A woman in
Paris keeps ball dresses to rent out by the
day, week or month, and makes money at
it..........Queen Victoria and ex-Empress
Eugenie have been visiting together at
Inverlock Castle and the summit of Ben-
Nevis......The yellow fever is said to be
subsiding at Memphis Tennessee.........A
grand evangelical conference of religious
men has been in session in New York; all
Protestant sects, and all lands where Chris-
tianity has been preached were represented.
......Immense amounts of gold have been
sent to America from the Bank of England.
......Strong hopes of a monarchy are enter-
tained in France......The total number of
paupers in London on the last day of Au-
gust of the present year, was 98,707......
There is a singular natural curiosity in a
Lake in Vermont, consisting of one hun-
dred and fifty acres of floating land, which
is covered with cranberries and has trees
growing upon it fifteen feet high.........The
Paris man "Modiste," Worth, employs
twenty women to make toilets; he never
cuts, fits or sews himself, but merely super-
intends......Russian female students are
refused the right of pursuing the study of
medicine......The “Daily Globe," of Boston,
as discharged all its female compositors,
nd is now, for the first time, run exclu-
sively by males......Spain demands of
England the Vittoria and the Almanza......
Thirty women are employed on the daily
press of New York.


IMPORTANCE OF READING

   No matter how obscure the position in the
life of an individual, if he can read, he may,
at will put himself in the best society the
world has ever seen. He may converse
with the greatest heroes of the past; with all
the writers in prose and poetry. He may
learn how to live, how to avoid the errors
of his predecessors, and to secure blessings,
present and future, to himself. He may
reside in a desert, far away from the habita-
tions of man; in solitude where no human
eye looks upon him with affection or
interest, where no human voice cheers him
with its animating tones, if he has books to
read he can never be alone. He may
choose his company, and the subjects of
conversation, and thus become contented
and happy, intelligent, wise and good.
Young people should heed these truths.


﻿ON “GETTING UP.”

	Once you have fixed your hour of rising,
keep to it with more firmness because of
the difficulties to be overcome; for this
troublesome couch of ours contains in the
morning such an amount of magnetic fluid
that it keeps us back, I do not say against
our will, but with a not unpleasing force
which seems to fasten us to the pillow. I
acknowledge we are now in the presence of
our most terrible enemy, and our pillow is
that enemy. When we would quit it in
the morning, it lulls us with the artful tones
of a siren, and caresses us with the utmost
tenderness. It seems to say, Why leave
me? Are you not well off here? It is so
cold out of bed! There is but one way to
secure a victory, and that is a prompt,
decisive act, a military charge, a jump out
of bed. Route the enemy by a vigorous
"sortie," and victory is yours. When I
meet a man who has the courage to rise at
an early hour every morning, I straight-
way conceive a high idea of the firmness
of his character.—"Archbishop of Rheims."


PHYSIOLOGY.

	It is not the object of the writer to present a
code of physiological laws; but to call attention
to the necessity of having this branch of sci-
ence more generally taught in our schools.
	Human physiology is a history of the func-
tions (uses) of the various organs which 
constitute the human body, of their mechan-
ism, their dependencies upon, and relations to
each other.
	Great need exists with a majority of people of
all localities, of a knowledge of a correct system
of physiology. No person can understandingly,
apply gramatical or mathematical rules which
they have never learned. Neither can a per-
son make the most and best of life without
learning life's science, physiology, and under-
standingly applying its rules. To derive from
life the happiest results, is the object of all 
rational beings. The condition of  "the house
we live in” (the body) so materially affects all 
our life-interests that an understanding of its
parts and functions is of more than ordinary 
importance.
	A thorough system of co-operative education
would require iniatory lessons to be given at
home. Where can mild words be found in which
to refer to the inexcusable ignorance of so many
parents upon subjects which so vitally con-


cern their happiness and well-being, in their
present lives, and in their future generations?
	We study the biography of noted men and
women with interest, sometimes with profit;
but if one study must be neglected, it should
not be the study of our inner-selves, on which
depends so much of life, health, happiness,
longevity, and consequently so much of the
power of usefulness in earth-life.
	Reader, if you are acquainted with the laws
above referred to, you are required by the debt
you owe to humanity to teach them. Hygenic
table arrangements are among the most admir-
able and effective first lessons in this depart-
ment of science. Other reforms which these
laws require may be advantageously introduced
at the fireside, and in social neighborhood in-
tercourse.
	“The field is white and the laborers are few."
Dear reader, will you study and labor to help
to improve the condition of our kindred—the
human family? If so, you have the co-opera-
tion of
				   SARAH M. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿AN EYE OPENED.

	A lady writer in the East, gives an account,
of a recent visit to this city and an interview
with "Mrs Brigham Young No. 17." Her let-
ter commences thus; "Fresh from the blue
laws of the East, imbued with the idea that
"no good thing can come out of Nazareth," I
visited Salt Lake City with all my sympathies
enlisted for the woman that was struggling to
free herself from the hateful yoke which en-
thralled her. Calling, with some friends, one
evening, I found her at the best hotel in the
city—a hotel which for luxury, though not
for size, would compete with the Fifth Avenue
Hotel of N. Y. City. Mrs. Young No. 17 is
tall, has a good figure, fine features, black
hair and eyes, complexion rather pale, and at
first sight would be called a fine looking wo-
man. She wore a dress of gray, much trimmed
—would pass anywhere as a finely dressed
woman, and looked, altogether, not at all the
martyr I had expected to see."
	And after giving minute particulars of what
was said and what transpired during a visit of
some length, the writer thus concludes; "I
came away from Salt Lake City feeling that
my sympathy for No. 17 had been wasted; and
although I do not blame her for wishing to be
free from 'her' married life, I cannot help
thinking it would be 'just the same' were she
the 'only wife' of a 'good' and 'true' man."
	Many others who are wasting sympathy on
poor dejected women at Salt Lake, would do
well to call, and get their eyes opened.


TOO CHEAP.

	Woman has so long been regarded as either a
kitchen drudge, or a mere parlor ornament,
according as her position in society would allow,
that she has, generally speaking, come to great-
ly under value her own genuine worth. She
fails to realize that to an immeasurable extent,
the wealth, ambition, pride, strength, beauty and
glory of future generations, of future nations,
and in short, the future world, is based exactly
upon the price at which she values herself.
She is too easily won by the magnetic influence
of man's masterly power, and does not suffi-
ciently weigh the importance of bestowing her
woman's self upon one who is entirely worthy.
	The man who woos her may indulge occa-
sionally in a pipe or cigar, or even "a glass too
much!" But he loves her—at least he says he
does—and to her it sounds so sweet to hear him
declare it, that she "cannot spare the luxury of


believing." He visits the billiard saloon some-
times; but then, he praises her charms, her
voice, her beanty, perhaps her talents. He
spends his Sabbaths in running races instead of
attending church, yet is sure to throw aside
everything else for the sake of spending the
evening with her. He speaks irreverently of
honorable aged people, and often uses profane
language. But he is always polite and most
gentlemanly in his words and manners toward
her. Though his dress and the perfumes and
personal dainties in which he indulges, indi-
cate that he is something of a fop and a spend-
thrift; yet to her he is not at all selfish, and
lavishes upon her splendid, costly gifts and
is delighted to gratify her most extravagant
desires. No matter what he may appear in
the eyes of the world, he "lays himself out"
to please and entrap her; and she is vain and
foolish enough to be pleased and caught.
	O, Woman! why are you so weak! Why do
you not stand erect and free, the true being
which God designed you to be. It is your pre-
rogative, your legitimate right to make your
own choice in answering who shall be your
soul's companion, the father of your children.
How can you be so blind to your own interest
and the progress of humanity, as to allow your-
self to be so cheated and hoodwinked as to ex-
change the one priceless jewel with which God
has entrusted you, your soul-wealth, your queen-
ly self, for worse than nothing, the mere pledge
of love from a being worthy of your respect
and confidence!
	Better, a thousand times better, never to
marry at all, never think to fulfil the holy mis-
sion which it is your sacred right, under proper
circumstances, to fulfil, better to return to the
Heavenly Father as pure and spotless as He
sent you, than to become the mother of offspring
by a debauchee and a deceiver.
	When God had finished His work in forming
the world, He saw that it was good. He like-
wise would see all the works of His children
worthy of being pronounced good; and His
daughters have no license to run the risk of
doing poor work, by bringing to earth sons and
daughters begotten of inferior fathers.
	In brief, we simply mean—Young lady, do
not sell yourself so cheaply as a majority of
women have done and do. Do not marry
a man who is not really worthy of you, and be
sure that you are indeed worthy of one of the
best.


﻿	HOME AFFAIRS.

	AT A meeting of the EXPONENT Committee
of Consultation, held October 21st, Mrs. Ma-
rinda Hyde and Mrs. Phebe Woodruff were
chosen members of the Committee; also a num-
ber of ladies were appointed to act as agents.
	THE FINE hotel, known as the Clift House,
was burned on the night of the 24th ult. A
defective flue is said to have been the cause.
At ten minutes past ten the fire bell, at the
City Hall, rang out the alarm which speedily
brought fire engine, firemen and spectators to
the scene. The flames had already made so
much progress that though the firemen worked
nobly through the night, they barely saved
the walls from falling. The total loss was
supposed to be about $70,000.
	AMONG THE recent deaths in this city, is
brought to our notice that of little Julia Horne,
infant daughter of William S. and Julia Horne
Burton, which took place on the 24th ult.
Not quite a year since, we chronicled the death
of its mother, which occurred but a few hours
subsequent to the birth of the child. Now, as if
in answer to a call from her sainted mother, the
little one has thus early fled the scenes of morta


life. The sympathies of a large circle of friends
are newly awakened for the bereaved husband
and father and other near relatives, in conse-
quence of this second sad loss.


For the Exponent.
			MOTHER.

	TO THOUGHTLESS CHILDREN
	What name in the English language
brings such tender feelings with the mere
sound, as that of “Mother?” The most har-
dened person, when hearing or speaking it
at times, cannot help a flow of warm, loving
thoughts springing into the heart. When
sickness is in the family, whose untiring
hands are ever willing to perform every
little act of kindness that will lessen the suf-
ferings of the afflicted? Whose love soften-
ing every pang, makes smooth the thorny
path of life? It is Mother’s hand and Moth-
er’s love which sooth and lighten all the
burdens. It is to her we are indebted for the
good there is in us; for she sows the good
seed in the hearts of her children. Where
is the daughter who can be ungrateful to her
Mother? If there is one such, what an un-
happy life she must lead!
	Do not the great men of this world attri-
bute their success in a great measure to the
good teachings of their Mothers? The his-
tory of their lives will tell if they err in so
doing. Many persons seem to think that
her strength, like her love, is inexhaustable,
and that they can draw therefrom forever,
but take no pains to do anything that will
soften her labors, or smooth her path in life.
Let such a one lose her Mother. Oh! what
thoughts rush into the mind! Every unkind
word, every angry look, every ungrateful
act, will come thronging into the memory,
crushing the already breaking heart. Where
can a more heart-rending scene be witness-
ed, than the father and children standing
beside the corpse of the wife and Mother?-
The memory of that sainted being will ever
be fresh in their hearts. In the solitude of
night they will see her loving face, hear her
gentle rebuke,or sweet words of praise; every
little act of kindness ever performed by her
will then be remembered and rendered
doubly dear, Her place can never be filled
by another; no matter how obliging, how af-
fectionate, a woman maybe, it is not Mother!
	Oh! then, take care of Mother while she
is with you. Every step that can be taken
to save her, let it be taken willingly; and in
her old ago, be to her a “friend” in every
sense of the word. Do not be afraid of over-
paying the debt of gratitude you owe her.
It can never be cancelled, worlds without
end.
	Are you a sou? remember, if you can, the
immeasureablo acts of kindness she has per- 
formed for your comfort. Are you a daugh-
ter? Who has planted in your heart the
seeds that will make honorable, virtuous
womanhood? Who is it, when you feel
tired, that will say, Oh, so gently! “Sitdown,
my child, I know you are tired; I will finish
now.” Who is willing to forego pleasure
that you may go out and enjoy yourself?
Every daughter in the 1 and, if asked these
questions, would answer, “My Mother!”
Oh, blessed word! what solemn thoughts
awaken at the mention of that holy name.
Girls, too much on your part cannot be done
for your Mothers. Listen to their counsels,
obey them implicitly, and they will make
you not only honorable members of society,
but, better still, honorable members of the
Kingdom of God.				P.A.M.
	RICHMOND, Oct. 1st.


﻿IF rich, be not elated; if poor, be not de-
jected.


.					WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE AUTUMN WIND.

			I.
Speak for me, wind of Autumn,
Blowing over the moorland,
Over the crested billows,
Over the mountain summits,
Over the forest branches,
And chimneys of the town!
Speak for me, melancholy wind,
And say to suffering human kind::
The hopeful things that I might tell,
Had I a voice to fall and swell,
Like thine, upon the land and sea,
As all-pervading and as free..

			II.
Breathe gently in the cottage,
Murmur through door and keyhole,:
Or pipe in the oozy ingle,
Where, sitting with his loved ones,:
The poor man dreams of Fortune,
Or mourns his low estate!
And tell him, ere he goes to rest.
Of all Earth’s blessings, Love is best.:
That honest bread and strength and health
Are better than a Prince’s wealth,
And good men’s sleep a richer boon
Than all the gold beneath the moon.

			III.
Breathe soft in shady alleys.
Where lovers at the twilight
Sit under hawthorn branches
And paint the rosy future,
And tell them Youth and Beauty
Pass over like the spring;
But that if Love on virtue lean,
Time shall not dim its golden mean,
But light it on its earthly way,
Until the mortal shall decay;
Then lead it through the immortal door.
Where Love is young forevermore.

			IV.
Breathe gently, wind of Autumn,
To the exile and the captive,
Heart-smitten and desponding,
Dreaming of distant landscapes,
And joys forever vanish’d,
And home they love so well!
Tell them, whatever tempests roll,
To keep their summer in the soul,
And that the wrong which seems to stand
And overshadow all the land,
Is but a breath of vain endeavor;
While Right is Right, and lasts forever.


[Column 1]
						﻿[For the EXPONENT.
		WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	Many predict utter failure of the Woman
Suffrage movement because it has not al-
ready been accomplished, and because it
moves slowly. They argue that were it
a necessary step, and one destined to be
adopted at all, it would have been accom-
plished ere this.
	But I have proved to my own satisfaction,
from this very delay, that it is necessary
and inevitable, and when once adopted,
destined to be permanent. The gourd
which grew up in a night withered in a
day, while things which live long grow
slowly. In the natural order of things a
person must be prepared for responsible
positions before occupying them, for unless
her capacity is equal to her needs, she will
fail in her undertakings.
	Woman's long exclusion from educational
advantages and participation even by
unrestrained conversation in political affairs,
would argue an unqualified condition. Hav-
ing neither experience nor teaching, neither
practice nor theory, neither personal nor
general responsibility, the chances are that
had they been admitted to the full privi-
leges of citizenship at the first asking,
without argument pro or con, a great portion
of them would have been as fearful of
accepting their new privileges as certain
members of Congress are appropriating their
"back pay." They would so have dreaded
to be called "strong minded;" which
dreadful scandal affrights so many of Eve's
daughters and proves beyond argument
how low is the standard set up for them by

[Column2]
—I will not say men because they are so
sensitive about being "attacked" but no one
can find fault if I say by—Society.
	Again thousands would have gone on in
mammon and fashion worship, refusing to
arouse themselves to the dignity of their
new position; and many who did accept
willingly their privileges would seem much
like children playing with fire—knowing
not what to do with it. But the strong
opposition which the movement has met,
will arouse the idlest and most ignorant to
a sense of her important position, and
each new point at issue will educate and
prepare her for the responsibility which is
coming upon her, each new rebuff will make
her more determined and each fresh evi-
dence of her unprotected condition will
arouse her dormant energies and fit her, step
by step, to be her own guide, guardian and
defender.
	The friends of woman are right to be-
siege the doors of schools and colleges here-
tofore closed against her, for as fast as she
is fitted to bear them ably, there need be no
fear that she will not be called to new privi-
legs eand responsibilities; and surelyt hat is
fast enough to satisfy the most sanguine.
	This is speaking of woman in general but
suggests a particular case; the women of
Utah. Were they fitted and prepared
to appreciate and wisely use the franchise?
Can they claim superior education or natural
abilities? At least they do not, and yet I
think them quite able to make good use of the
ballot. Whatever the Territory affords of
educational facilities are open alike to men
and women, but their chief preparation for
the ballot lies in having so long and so
keenly felt the need of a weapon of self-
defense. The long years in which they
have borne the scorn and contumely of the
world at large, have matured them fast; for
suffering is a powerful teacher. The ladies
of Utah thus have been prepared to fully
realize the dignity and authority which the
franchise bestows, and none will dispute
that whosoever thoroughly realizes this
may be safely trusted to use it wisely.
	The new facilities afforded the press in
this Territory by the railroad, have brought
that also within the reach of woman; and
gladly does she avail herself of this means
to educate and vindicate herself. She is
justly tired of being misrepresented, mis-
understood and misjudged. She never
asked for the franchise but when it was
offered to her she accepted it gratefully,
and will now cling to it as to her life.
	Had the ladies of Utah made one tenth
of the exertions to gain citizenship that
their Eastern sisters have done, it is but
fair to conclude that the whole civilized
world and half the heathen would have
informed of the fact, and called to witness
the terrible state of tyranny on one hand and
rebellion on the other between the men and
women of Utah. And, truly, there would
have been nearly (though not quite) as much
truth in it as if applied to the Eastern States
to-day; for men in general do oppress
women in general even if unintentionally,
because the frame work of laws and the
network of customs under which they
live will have it so.
	There is a gradual improvement in the
code of laws for which women are truly
thankful; but they never can be quite just
until man and woman stand on a true level,
having equal rights, equal honor, equal
self-sovereignty. This, and not a reversion
of the old order, as some pretend to think—
is the aim of the so-called Suffrigists, and
it is a noble aim truly. That they will
eventually succeed is just as certain as that
their cause is just and their claims reasona-

[Column 3]
ble; but, to some, the joyful time may seem
slow of approach.
	If so, let them not wearily count the hours
and lengthen them with suspense, but to
lighten and hasten them, do something!
make preparation! lift themselves out of
the degradation of unthinking, unreasoning,
useless existence which some lead. Even if
you make mistakes and do things you would
like to recall, better that than sit with folded
hands and never learn what to do.
	Above all things do not be a slave to
fashion! She is a most despotic queen and
lays upon her subjects most grievous bur-
dens; in return for which graciousness she
demands the time, the talents, the con-
science and the health of her victims. Her
rewards are a restless craving for adulation
in youth, a sense of loss instead of gain in
middle life and a regretful, empty old age.
Poor wages truly.
	None need feel degraded by the necessity
of toil, for labor is honorable in the sight of
God who made it at once our expiation and
our elevation; but a life of idleness and
frivolity is degrading to man or woman;
and so long as idleness and helplessness are
the standards by which to measure woman's
ladyhood, just so long will she be a slave to
ladyism.
	All honor to the brave souls who would
correct this state of things, by putting into
her hands, and teaching her to use the
weapons of self-government.
	And here I cannot forbear a word in favor
of that able sheet "The Woman's Journal."
	It condemns fashion-worship, mammon-
worship and—man-worship. It advocates
perfect equality and not tyranny from either
man or woman; a mutual concession of
privileges; co-education of the sexes and all
such needed reforms; and while doing so,
discountenances all over-zeal and all incli-
nation to exhibit only one side of the
question; teaching temperate ardor and a
most unselfish devotion to the cause of
woman's advancement. 
						L. L. D.


﻿THE BEST LEARNING.—The learning 
which makes us acquainted with ourselves,
with the faculties of the human mind, with
Divine truth, which is plainly revealed,
with its power on the mind and heart, with
the concatenations of cause and effect, and
to understand our every-day duty, which
grows out of our wants and the want of
those about us, is learning of a better quality
than that which only enables us to call
things by different names, without giving
us a knowledge of their qualities for either
good or evil.


A CHILD'S FAITH.—In the Highlands of Scot-
land there is a mountain gorge 20 feet in width, and
200 feet in depth. Its perpendicular walls are
bare of vegetation, save in the crevices, in which
grow numerous wild flowers of rare beauty. Desir-
ous of obtaining specimens of these mountain beau-
ties, some scientific tourists once offered a Highland
boy a handsome gift if he would consent to be low-
ered down the cliff by a rope, and would gather a
little basket full of them. The boy looked wistfully
at the money, for his parents were poor, but when
he gazed at the yawning chasm he shuddered,
shrank back and declined; but filial love was strong
within him; after another glance at the gift, and at
the terrible fissure, his heart grew strong, and his
eye flashed, and he said, “I will go if my father
will hold the rope.” And then, with unshrinking
nerves, and heart firmly strong, he suffered his
father to put the rope about him, lower him into
the wild abyss, and to suspend him there while he
filled his basket with the coveted flowers. It was a
daring deed, but the faith in the strength of his
father's arm, and the love of his father's heart,
gave him courage and power to perform it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A BIT OF ITALIAN HISTORY.
	In spite of the disastrous defeat at Novara
by the Austrians in 1849, when Charles
Albert abdicated and was succeeded by his
son, the present King, the Sardinian mon-
archy retained a large fund of latent energy,
which displayed itself in judicial improve-
ments, and in the alliance against Russia
during the Crimean War. In 1859 came
the-wished-for opportunity, France, in con-
junction with Sardinia, defeated Austria on
the fields of Magenta and Solferino, and a
large portion of Italian soil was freed from
foreign sway, in spite of the treaty of Villa-
franca, which was signed before half the
aims of Cavour and other Italian pa riots
were accomplished. Next year came Gari-
baldi's romantic and most unsuccessful inva-
sion of the South, after which Victor
Emmanual was saluted as King of Italy.
In the Seven Week's War in 1866 Italy
sided with Prussia, and, though individu-
ally worsted at Lissa and Costozza, shared
in the success of her ally by receiving the
kingdom of Venetia. Finally, during the
Franco-German War of 1870, Rome was
occupied by Italian troops, the capital of
the kingdom was removed to the Eternal
City, and the long-deferred promise of Napo-
leon III. was realized, namely, that Italy
should be free, from the Alps to the Adri-
atic.—"R. N. Y."


[Column 1]
					[For the Exponent.
SCENES ON THE ISLAND OF TUBUAI
	SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN.
	Walking one morning, along the pleasant
footpaths on Tubuai, I was struck with the
beauty of the scenery. Large trees were
growing on either side of the narrow roads,
loaded with foliage of vivid green. Some
with large leaves the size of breakfast plates
and used by the natives for that purpose.
It is winter, thought I, at home; and here,
in this isolated world, nature dwells in all
her splendor and beauty! While thus in-
dulging my admiration, I found myself
standing near a bridge, built over a stream
of beautiful fresh water, a little distance
from the sea shore. A crowd of native chil-
dren had jumped from the bridge into the
water, and were diving about like so many
fishes. I was gazing upon them with sur-
prise and delight, when my eyes caught
sight of a little white girl among the dark
children; she looked like a lump of shining
gold in the dirt. I called her to come out
of the water; they all came to me, and I
inquired whose child she was. One of the
children answered, "Tamahina na Tavana,
na Tahiti." (Daughter of the Governor of
Tahiti.) I asked, "why is she on this
Island?" They replied that she was kept
by Metua fua amue," (Feeding mother.)
I told them to go and tell the woman to
come to the Mission House.
	Accordingly, she came, and brought the
child, about four years old. I inquired, (I
could then speak well in the Tahitian
tongue,) if it would not be good for the mis-
sionaries to take the little girl, and teach
her. She was pleased with the suggestion,
and consented at once. I then asked her to
tell me the child's history, and how she
came in possession of her. She said she had
learned from natives in Tahiti, that, when
the French Governor first came among the
Islands, he left a wife in France, Soon
after assuming the duties of his office he
took a native woman to live with him as a
wife, by whom he had two daughters. In
process of time he went home, and returned
with his lawful wife. On a certain occasion
[Column 2]
they were walking in the balcony, in
the upper story of their dwelling; a crowd
of natives were assembled about the house
below. The lady looking down among
them, espied a colored woman with a white
child in her arms. She was struck with
the appearance of the child; and charged
her husband with being its father! their
conversation was overheard; he dared not
deny it. She said to him, "Had you in-
formed me before my arrival that you had
children born here, I would have taken and
raised them as my own. But as you thought
to deceive me, I will have nothing to do
with them, and you must send them away
from this Island, to be raised." He heark-
ened to her voice; (as Abraham did to
Sarah s,) and sent them away. The little girl
was left with me. She wept sorely, for
being left with strangers, but soon became 
reconciled.
	While listening to the history, I thought
(though I dared not say it,) "That woman,
would believe in polygamy; she is a true
woman." I became greatly interested in my
little charge; a more beautifully organized
child I never saw! beautiful in form and
features; jet black hair, and eyes, fair skin,
with the slightest tinge of yellow. She was
introduced into a new life, which arroused
all her latent sensibilities. She was re-
quired to sit at the table and eat with a knife
and fork instead of sitting on the ground,
and handling her food with her fingers.
It was pleasing to see how fast her ideality
developed. The house was full of toys and
pictures which were given us in San Fran-
cisco. It was more than theatrical to listen
to her inquiries and remarks; every
thing must be explained or she would not be
satisfied. She soon learned to speak a little
English, and O, how amusing she was!
Her attachment to me, grew every day
stronger and she would not be happy out of
my sight. I had other children of native
birth, some half, some quadrnoos, some pure
blood whom my daughters were teaching.
I often walked out at the close of day, to en-
joy the cool sea breezes, while Sarah, (as I
called her) was playing with the other chil-
dren. I would slyly steal out, thinking
she might not miss me; never could I get
more than ten rods away ere I would hear
the patter of her little feet behind me. She
would not quite approach me, unless i
turned and gave her a smile of approbation;
then she would bound like an antelope!
First she would run ahead, then turn and
come back to meet me gamboling like a pet
lamb; crazy with joy, because I was not
displeased that she had followed me. We
changed her dress from a single slip or
"cooler," drawn around the neck with a
string, to dresses of our own fashions, short,
with pantlets. She felt the improvement,
as sensibly as any little human could;
and I remember the remark my daughter
Frances made, when we had dressed up the
children in our keeping, and taught them
to speak a few words in English; "Why,
realy," she said, "it seems like having 
visitors from Salt Lake!" They could sing
like nightingales! it was equal to having a
piano in the house when they would all
sing together. The time drew near for us
to leave that Island, go to Tahiti, and pre-
pare for our return to America. I was
pained at my heart, to leave the children;
I urged their parents and guardians to let
some of them come with us. "Oh no."
They would shed a flood of tears at the bare
idea; unless we would have let them come too;
which we gladly would have done, had the means
been at hand. I returned my little Sarah to her
guardian, having learned that the design of the
[Column 3]
Governor, was, to send both "daughters" to France,
to be educated.
	Twenty-two years have passed away; if she is
living I can comtemplate her in no other light
than a brilliant French lady, the admiration of all
who know her. Never does my mind revert 
to that Island but I think of the patter of hte
little feet and the golden child I saw in the water.
	Extract from the journal of Mrs. L. B. Pratt,
kept Feb. 1851. Copied October 18th, 1873.
BEAVER


IGNORANT MOTHERS.

	Science? Oh yes! and art too. There is a
great deal of both to be studied out in mak-
ing bread and washing dishes, and still more
in listening to and answering the questions,
the continuous, countless questions of the
children.
	Ever busy observers of natural objects, it
requires parents and teachers of good sense,
coupled with first class educations, to answer
their daily questions correctly. And because
parents and teachers, generally, are not in
possession of the necessary information for
the guidance of children in the observation
of nature, their innocent and natural inquis-
itiveness is commonly repressed instead of
being encouraged and directed aright.
	I confess my ignorance of the commonest
things about me, and that my eldest boy,
when not yet four years old, had often puz-
zled me in propounding questions which I
could not answer, concerning the simplest
things in daily use in my domestic work.
	"How is the water made, mother?" he
asked me one day. "It is made by Our
Father in Heaven, the great God, who made
us, and the earth we live on, and all things
by which we are surrounded," I answered
him. "Well, what does He make it out of?
What kind of stuff is in it?" were the next
inquiries made. And I was obliged to ac-
knowledge that I did not know, and could
not tell him. I could'nt even say as to
whether it was considered by scientific peo-
ple to consist of one substance, in its pure
state, or to be composed of a mixture of ele-
ments.
	That shows, I presume, that I have not
taken the time to read "Beth's Chemistry
of Common Things," in the children's paper,
for that, doubtless, has told all about the na-
ture of water, as well as many other useful
things that I know nothing about. How
many other mothers are raising up families
who are quite as ignorant in the way of
properly instructing them as I am? Is there
not a general need for a reformation in the
domestic realm in regard to the education
of mothers? Shall we not all, or nearly all,
agree that we have fallen into the way of
too much hard work, and too little genuine
study—of nature rather than of books? We
send our children to school and require that
they should be taught. Is it more requisite
that they understand things than that their
mothers should?				LINA.


WEBSTER said:—"If we work upon mar
ble it will perish; if upon brass, time wil
efface it; if we rear temples they will crumble
into dust; but if we work upon our immor-
tal minds—if we imbue them with princi-
ples, with the just fear of God and love of
our fellow men—we engrave on these tab-
lets something which will brighten through
all eternity."


HUMILITY does not consist in telling our
faults, but in bearing to be told of them; in
hearing them patiently and even thankful-
ly; in correcting ourselves when told—not
in hating those who tell us of them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES FROM MILLIE

		(Gathered for the Exponent,) 
	We mostly,too often forget the consequence 
of not keeping our mouths shut at proper
times. If we cultivate a habit of breathing
through the nostrils rather than the mouth
the latter will naturally be less frequently
opened, and we will thus become more
healthy, and as fewer things of a disagree-
able nature will be uttered, we shall be more
happy. Try it. Keeep your mouth shut.
	Nearly all the annoyances from which spring
the heart-burnings and strife with which
the world is vexed, are petty trifles which
arise from ominous nothings. They are but
forgotten seeds, which, scattered by the
wayside, spring up in after life in the shape
of apathy or distrust. They are little sparks,
which smoulder and heat, and when least
expected, kindle into a flame.
	And these peace disturbers, heartrenders,
and sometimes soul- destroyers, might be
avoided, mostly altogether, if people could
learn that wisdom which would tell them
when to keep the mouth shut.
	But, then, there are some hearts so over-
sensitive that nothing can be said which
does not in some way chafe or wound them,
no matter how pure the intentions of the
speaker may be. A great deal of discomfort
arises from this diseased state of mind, it
being far too prevalent. It should be blunt-
ed. There are actually those who fancy that
they form the especial theme of every pas-
serby; and if, in conversational circles, gen-
eral hints are given, they are sure to imag-
ine themselves particularized, and always
insist on being unjustly evil spoken of.
Whereas, they might, at least, give their
friends credit for feeling after their interest
And if, as is often the case, they must listen
to imaginary colloquies about themselves,
they might set the old proverb at defiance
and determine on hearing something good.
Another thing, these oversensitive people
are not the most cautious about opening
their mouths at the expense of the feelings
or credit of others. If compliments are of-
fered them in a kindly manner, they have
a way of defalcating them, and only half ac-
knowledging their real worth, And most of
us are not pleased with such discounts on
our pretty sentences, and are apt to look
well to our compliment in-those direc-
tions in future.


CHINESE MARRIAGE

	The Chinese mode of marriage is original.
The calendar is invariably consulted for a
lucky day to solemnize the nuptials; and in
the intermediate-time, letters pass between
the young couple, presents are exchanged
betwixt the two families and the bride-
groom purchases some jewels for his bride.
When the day appointed arrives, the bride
is locked in a close palanquin, the key of
which is delivered to a trusty domestic,
who must deliver it to none but the husband;
and the lady is carried to her new home, pre-
ceded by a band of musicians, and followed
by her relations. Everything that composes
her portion is also borne before and after her,
by persons of both sexes, while others walk
on each side with flambeaux and lighted
torches. The bridegroom, richly dressed,
waits the arrival of the procession at his
gate, on receiving the key, eagerly opens
the palanquin. If he be contented with his
new spouse he receives her with many ex-
pressions of joy; but if he be much disap-
pointed he suddenly shuts the chair, and
sends her back to her relations. If, how-
ever, the bridgroom once receive her into
his house, the marriage is irrevocable.


SLEEP.

	The necessity of sleep, it may be admit-
ted, is a disagreeable necessity. To turn
aside from all the pleasures of life, from the
sweet consciousness of existence, to give
over thoughts and love and memory and
hope—all plans and pursuits—and go down
to unforgetfulness or unconsciousness, is,
or seems to be, an unspeakable loss. It is a
death, temporary, but imperious and ever
recurring. Yet it is so universal, so gradual,
so natural, that we yield to it not only with-
out dread, but with delight. In the silent
splendor of star-lit nights, which seem to
put us on a footing with the whole universe,
in the blackness of nights that knew no star,
when we seem to be standing alone in the
solitude of eternity, life is too fascinating,
and we begrudge a moment lost; but even
then, without will, against will, the heavy
eyelids droop, and, all unhindered, the shy
soul slips away into some remote recess of
the brain to lie in ambush for the rising
dawn and the strong new world.


NEVER AGAIN.

	There is a touch of pathos about doing
even the simplest thing for the last time.
It is not alone kissing the lips of the dead
that gives you this strange pain—You feel
it when you look your last upon some scene
which you have loved—when you stand in
some quiet street where you will never
stand again unless you come back some day
to the old "haunts," and wander among
them an unwelcome ghost.
	The actor playing his part for the last
last time—the singer whose voice is cracked
hopelessly, and who after this once will
never stand before the sea of upturned
faces, disputing the plaudits with fresher
voices and fairer forms—the clergyman
who has preached his last sermon—these all
know the hidden bitterness of "never
again."
	How they come to us on birthdays as we
grow older! Never again young—always
nearer to the very last—the end which is
universal, the "last thing" which shall fol-
low all the other last things, and turn
them, let us hope, from pains to joys.
	We put away our boyish toys with an odd
heartache. We were too tall to walk any
longer on our stilts—too old to play marbles
on the pavement. Yet there was a pang
when we thought we had played with our
merry mates for the last time, and life's
serious, grown-up work was waiting for us.
	Now we do not want the lost toys back.
Life has other and larger playthings for us.
May it not be that these, too, shall seem in
the light of some far off as the boyish games
seem to our manhood, and we shall learn
that death is but the opening of a gate to
the new land of promise?


ORNAMENTAL TREES.—As a rule it is
much better to use native trees than those
of foreign extraction. Native trees are
generally more hardy, and put out their
foliage sooner, and retain the same later in
the season than the foreign. The maple
tree makes a beautiful shade, but is a slow
grower. The American linden is not, prob-
ably, as fine a tree as the English, but
preferable in some other respects. The
mountain ash is a favorite and is regarded
as among the most beautiful of the decid-
uous trees. Its form is graceful, and its
general appearance striking and elegant,
either in bloom in early summer, or when
loaded with its rich scarlet berries in the
autumn. It is very hardy, and will grow
thriftily in an exposure that would kill other
deciduous trees.


STOKES' FATHER testifies to insanity
affecting members of his family. Of course
Stokes was "affected" when he shot Fisk.
Of course he "lived in dread of his life"
while Fisk lived. But if he had been
born a Modoc, the lawyers would have had
less trouble in deciding his case.


MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
		Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS,
		No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agent for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.	jel5

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75. First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES: OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices Special dicounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand. 

			NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter 
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  20 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12X16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent. 
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.
	


		

----
MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours-10a m. to 3 p m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room  No. 50

CALDER & CARELESS

	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Masom & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stich Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods. 		je15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and 
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First 
South street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionar in the Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern 
Prices Special disconnts made to all who purchase. 
A Splendid Stock on hand. 
			NEW CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of 
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an 
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, ad its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their 
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as 
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of 
the paper with the beginning of the next volume, 
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00	
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 		-	-	-	-	  20 00	
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham 
	Young, selling price, $2.50	-	-	  34 00	
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham 
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	- 		  48 00	
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by restered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿
