VOl. 2. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, September 1, 1873.	 No. 7.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Political meetings, held in different
States of the Union, indicate that the wars
of the politicians are not yet an end.
	A sad story is told of a fire, which de-
stroyed the “Widows' and Orphans' Home"
in Kansas City, Missouri, a short time since,
rendering its inmates houseless.
	Shooting is becoming about as common
as divorces were a short time ago.  What
will be the next sensational strike of the
fashionables, by way of settling accounts?
	That Queen Victoria is a “liberal” in
politics, the English Tories, it appears, have
but lately discovered.  Yet why the belie
should have been entertained that she was
ever anything else, is not made manifest.
	Maggie Elphick, the Greenwich heroine,
has been presented with an elegant gold
watch and chain, by the father of the boy
she lately saved from drowning.  So much
more, for being a swimmer and cool headed!
	Miss Lottie Moon, has been selected as a
missionary to China, from Catersville,
Georgia. Doubtless the selection was a very
appropriate one, and Miss Moon will do
great good among the "children of the
Sun."  
	The advocates of “woman suffrage” in
England, as well as in this country, still
persevere in their efforts to obtain for
women their just privileges and rights.
We hope, ere many years, to see the subject
of “Woman’s rights” generally  understood
far more correctly and fully than it is at the
present time. 
	A Senator elect, declares that members
of Congress will have families in Washing-
ton, and it is better that they have their own.
That will do, provided  the people are not
taxed for the support of those families; and
if Congressmen have become so attached
to their home circles that their hearts
cannot bear separation for a few months.
	The fair taxpayers of San Francisco
have determined on having fair play in
future. They have met, and “resolved”
that until they are represented in the legis-
lative assemblies of the nation, they will
pay no more taxes.  Why should they?
They have right to a voice in making any
law which they are expected to respect and
help to support.
	Miss Nelly de Matamarre de Treby,
a young French lady—who during the war,
plunged a knife into the breast of a Prussian
officer, who, in her father's house, ventured
to put his arm around her waist—has lately
taken the veil. Had it been the "bridal
veil” there would have been more cheeri-
ness in the thought than there is in the con-
templation of her being a nun.
	The first instance, so said, in which a
white man has been sentenced according to
law, to suffer death for killing an Indian,
has occurred in Idaho. The criminal James
Picket, about a year ago, killed an Indian
woman almost instantly with a miner’s
pick.   He was  tried, convicted and sen-
tenced to death by the civil court of Idaho.
The Attorney General refuses to recommend
that he be pardoned;
	Several newspapers are now published
[new column]
in the United states, of which, portions are
under the editorial control of ladies. This
is as it should be. But when women thus
favored, make mention of “those naughty
men,” they should never forget to make
exceptions; keeping in mind that the men
are not “all” selfish braggarts. They call
for “fair play”—they should, then, be care-
ful not to manifest a disposition to take
more than their own just rights.
	Party feeling among politicians is pre-
senting rather foreboding aspects in different
localities. The Liberals, Democrats, Repub-
licans and all kinds of office seekers in
nearly all the States are shaking fists and
making grimaces at each other. Bickering
and backbiting will continue to grow worse
and worse, apparently, until a Wasington,
or some kind of a washing machine can
be obtained, of sufficient force to cleanse
the country of some of its corruption.
	One of the most fearful railroad disasters
yet recorded, recently occurred on the
Chicago and Alton railroad, from the collid-
ing of a freight train and a passenger train.
Many souls were instanttly hurried into
eternity, and many others died subsequently
from injuries received—as recorded, not
less than one hundred in all! And this
time, the recklessness of the conductor of
the freight train, whose name is Bean, is so
strikingly apparent that officers are in search
for him; and he will likely be brought to
justice 
	Pioche has had one of the most terrifiic
storms we have lately seen recorded. In
ten minutes from the time the storm com-
menced, a dispatch states, that “a sheet of
water three feet deep was boiling and cut-
ting through the entire width and length of
Main street, sweeping everything in its
path.” And the rain continued pouering
incessantly for two hours! Some of the
sins of the Piochers ought to be washed
away, certainly, quite an amount of their
property went at any rate.
	Mayfield, Santa Clara County, Califor-
nia, has an ambitious man, Mr. William
Paul, who is likely to do good service to the
country, and also enrich himself by engag-
ing rather extensively in the silk manufac-
turing business. He has now a great
number of mulberry trees four years old,
and has lately erected a large cocoonery in
which a party of experienced silk growers
will be employed. A considerable amount
of means might be profitably invested by a
few Utah capitalists in the production of
silk, and thus furnish suitable employment
to a goodly number of females.
	The Prince of Wales has occasion to be
prouder than ever of his royal title, since
the great triumph of the chorists at the
Christal Palace—the sweetest if not the
most glorious and famous victory which has
been recorded for ages. On the 10th of
July, a grand trial of musical abilities was
made at the above named palace in London,
by English and Welsh singers, the latter
proving greatly superior to the former, and
carrying off the £l,000, which was the prize
offered to the winners.  Marked attention
and honors were afterwards bestowed upon
them by the Prince himself and his royal
consort.
[new column]
	It is scarcely realized by most readers
how the slightest omission or misapplica-
tion of a point in punctuation, a word or
letter may completely change the meaning
of a sentence. Or what great care must
necessarily be taken by those who write and
prepare copy for the press, and also by the
compositor, not to mislead their readers.
An instance occurred in one of our editorial
notes, in the last sisue of the Exponent,
in which, by the omission of a quotation
mark, we made it appear that “Grace Green-
wood” is almost a believer in the “Mormon
system of marriage,” which, we think is
not the case, though she is really a sensible
woman in most respects.
	“The Balance” says, “The Salt Lake
Exponent doesn’t tell us anything about
the divorce suit of Mrs. Brigham Young No.
17.”  By way of explanation for this seem-
ing omission, we beg to inform our Chicago
friend that our columns have been crowded
with other matters which were of greater
weight in our estimation. We believed,
at the beginning of said suit, it would all
end in “nothing,” and considered that
a journal as young as ours is, and as popular
as it is becoming, should yet continue to
treat its readers to “something.” We,
however, take pleasure in referring “The
Balance to the “Deseret Evening News,”
or Salt Lake “Daily Herald,” papers of
longer standing and greater experience
than the Exponent, for information con-
cerning the Ann Eliza Webb Young divorce
suit, if it is really wanted.  We venture to
suggest, too, that “The Balance” should
learn the truth before publishing news con-
cerning matters of importance, as the fol-
lowing statement which it has is entirely
incorrect: “Brigham claims that she has a
living husband from whom she is not
divorced—this was no objection to her
while she was content to remain an inte-
grant Mrs. Young.”


Grand Rapids, Mich., has a woman sex-
ton.


THE LATEST CASE OF MONMANIA.—A
very “fast” young gentleman, who fancied
himself a pendulum, and always went upon
"tick," went on so long that he never dis-
covered his delusion until he found a "turn-
key," by whom he was carefully wound
up in the Queen’s Bench.—“English Paper.”


A MISAPPREHENSION.—"Are you fond of
novels, Mr. Jones?”—“very,” responded the
interrogated gentleman, who wished to be
thought by the lady questioner a lover of
literature. “Have you,” continued the in-
quisitive lady, “ever read "Ten Thousand
a-Year?"—“No, madame; I never read so
many novels in all my life.”


YANKEE "ENTICEMENT.—An American
sailor lately gave evidence before a court of
law at Boston in case of assault. He stated
that “ Jack” (the traverser) had powerfully
enticed Sam (the complainant). Jack's
counsel asked him to explain what he meant
by the word entice. “ Why, sir, I mean
this—Jack took a big handspike, and drove
it plump in Sam’s back. That’s what I calls
enticing.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the Exponent.﻿
		A WARNING.

TO THE OVER-WORKING ONES.
				Stop now!
Listen to the working brain—
'Tis trying hard your ear to gain,
List n to its dizzy whirl— 
It seems the steam is in a boil.
And needs a fresh supply of oil,
As if it did most surely try,
Off in a tangent for to fly, 
And get away from toil and sweat,
And leave “unfinish’d rooms to let !”

					Stop now, 
Attend ! and bend your ear to know
That heart’s quick palpitating throe,
That every minute takes a rest— 
Sure this should be a warning test—
And then succeeds the weak’ning limbs,
The warning lamp, that nothing trims,
Repose alone can feed the fire,
That lacking rest, will soon expire,
Be wise “in time”— and if your health,
To you is truly "mines" of wealth
			Stop now!

So I listen'd—and I found
Enough of heart and brain still sound,
		To redeem
		The whole machine, 
If I put “the Brake” upon 
All the work through which I’d gone;
So right there, and then, I dropt
All my labor, and I stopt, 
And shook myself from every chain
And rambled on the mountain plain, 
A free-born spirit once again,
Without an ache—without a rain,
	A world of wealth    
	In luscious health,
	Because I heard
	The spirit word,
	(And did obey
	Without delay)
			Stop now.
				Hannah T. King.
G  S. L. City.


﻿R. S. REPORTS. 
	Spring City, August 5th 1873. We held
our annual meeting, June 6th, which should
have been held May 4th. but on account of
sickness which prevailed at that time,
meeting was dispensed with for fear of
spreading the fever, which seems to have
subsided now. President Olesen was pre-
sent; he spoke very encouragingly to the
sisters, said they had gone for beyond his
expectations, and thought they had done
exceedingly well under their circumstances.
He gave some very good advice.
	We have been taking your paper the
past year and wish to continue taking it, it
is a very good little paper and we wish it
good success.
We remain as ever yours respectfully
				Mrs. P. Benson.
		-------------------
	Meeting at Mendon, August 7th, 1873.
The meeting was openend in the usual
manner, by singing and prayer. After
which, Sister Maughan, of Logan, gave us
a very interesting discourse upon the duties
of the sisters, some of the chief points being
for them to take proper care of their chil-
dren, to train them up in the way they
should walk; to be careful and close their
doors before retiring to rest at night for they
knew not how soon some person, or persons,
who were not honest might make an
attempt to appropriate another’s property to
their own interest, or perhaps do worse; for
the sisters not to labor so hard, so that they
might enjoy more fully the spirit of their
calling. Her remarks were few and to the
point. Our President,Sister Elizabeth Willie,
then made a few very appropriate remarks
upon the principles of the Gospel; endors-
ing the remarks of Sister maughan. She
was followed by sisters Meria Baker and
Sophia Anderson (Counselors) who spoke
upon the necessity of our living our religion
and being obedient to the Priesthood.
[new column]
Sisters Hancock. Graham, Huges, Walker,
Sonne, Baker and Richards, each made
remarks, speaking on various subjects of
interest which were beneficial to those
present. The meeting was then dismissed
by singing and prayer. We wish the EX-
PONENT, success and its Editor prosperity,
	Yours 
		ELIZABETH WILLIE, President.
		E. J. BAKER, Clerk.
			——
	BRIGHAM CITY, August 10th, 1873.
DEAR EDITOR—I appreciate your excellent
paper and know that many of my sisters
receive it it as a blessing, wishing it great
success and considering it an instrument of
great worth, in disseminating light, know-
ledge and truth, with every principle
calculated to enlighten, exalt, and prepare
us for a broader sphere of action; I wish it
a more extensive circulation. The mem-
bers of our Relief Society generally feel
well, and are ready to cast in their mites to
assist in the work which lies before us; we
raised upwards of one hundred and twenty
dollars this spring, for the special purpose
of assisting in gathering the poor, which,
with what we had previously gathered for
that purpose, amounted to over two hun-
dred dollars, this amount we sent to assist
in emigrating Saints this year, while we
are trying to do the best we can with our
means for the benefit of our poor at home
and our Society generally.
		HARIET A. SNOW, President
				--------
	August 11th, 1873. The Tokerville Relief
Societywas organized June 11th, 1868.
Wo have not made as much progress as
some, but as a Society, are trying to do the
best we can. The sisters are united in their
efforts to do good. We have helped the
poor at home and abroad, and donated what
we could for the building of the Temple, we
also have shares in the Washington Cotton
Factory and the Co-operative store at this
place—besides some means in the Treasury.
	Yours respectfully,
		SARAH M. WILLIS, President.
		FANNY SPILSBURY,
		ANN HIGBEE		Counselor
		ANNIE JACKSON, Secretary,
		ANN HIGBEE, Treasurer.
	DEAR EDITOR:—I send you a brief report
of a meeting held August 6th, 1873, at the
residence , of Brother E. R. Young, Sugar
House Ward, President Mrs. Sarah Gibson
presiding. After singing and prayer the
financial report for the past year was read,
and satisfactorily received. Much good
instruction was given and a good spirit
prevailed, many sisters bearing their testi-
monies, and expressing their willingness to
do all in their power for the upbuilding
of the Kingdom of God on the earth.
	With kind wishes for the success of the
EXPONENT, I am.yours affectionately,
		SARAH E. WHEELER, Secretary.
	Miss M. A. Jenkins, Secretary of the
Young Lady’s Rretrenchment Association
of the 4th Ward, favors us with minutes of
their Twenty-Second meeting, held in 4th
Ward Relief Society Room, July 15th, 1873.
	After the opening ceremonies President
Miss Mary E. Bailey spoke as follows: It is
a very difficult task for me to arise and
speak to you; still, I wish to do all that
is required of me; and as I am placed in the
position of President, I know it to be my duty
to set an example by speaking. If we come
to meeting with light hearts and determin-
ation to perform every duty, the Lord will
bless and help us. I would like all to attend
[new column]
the meetings in the 14th Ward as often as
possible. By listening to the instructions
given there, we are better able to speak to,
and instruct others. We miss our late
President much; feel that there is one
missing from the circle and that we have
lost a friend and a leader: for she did lead 
us with kindness: she encouraged and
helped us, and set an example we all should 
strive to imitate, by learning her lessons well, 
and attending our meetings punctually. We
will ask our older sisters to come in occa-
sionally, and talk to us and cheer us up. I
would like to hear each one speak a few
words. I want you to help me all you can, 
and let us be interested and do all the good
that lays within our power to do.
	Counselor Miss Ceelia Condie said: I am
pleased to meet with you again. I often
think of the instructions our late President
gave us, which we should try to remember
and profit by. Let us not indulge in
“novel” reading but rather read our own
Church books. I have neglected to read
good works as I should have done, but with
the help of the Lord I intemd to reform.
	Counselor Mrs. Mahalia Jenkins said:  If
we neglect our duty we are liable to grow
lukewarm and indifferent. I feel to sustain
our President and do all in my power to
assist her. I am satisfied that she will do
her best. Let us all try to speak; the Lord
has said of His servants, that if they stand
up and try to bear testimony, He will put
words into their mouths; and I think He
will do the same for us.
	Miss LoviniaHaigh made a short address.
	Miss Carrie Savill said she was pleased
with the meeting and would like very much
to become a member of the Society. Miss
Lizzie Edwards, Miss Hannah Jenkins; Miss
Sarah Jenkins, Miss Lucy Smith and Secre-
tary Mary A. Jenkins, each made a few 
remarks after Which, some new resolutions
wore read.
	President Miss Mary E. Bailey stated that
about the last request their President made
of them before her death, was to keep their
meetings, and what was said in them, per- 
fectly sacred; and Miss Bailey desired all
to remember it.
	Appointments were made for the next
meeting, and meeting was adjourned for
two weeks.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us," etc.
	Benediction by Counselor,  Mrs. Mahalia
Jenkins.
				——
	Tho following is from Cedar City, Iron 
County, Aug. 12th, 1873.
	On Thursday, the 26th of June we held our
annual meeting in the Social Hall. Meeting 
opened, by singing,“Come let us anew” etc.;
Prayer by Counselor Annabella Haight;
singing, “Arise O glorious Zion,' etc; Min-
utes of previous meeting read and accepted.
The reading by the Secretary of the yearly
financial report showed that there was a
little means still in the Treasury and that
the articles donated had been economically
disbursed. Remarks by President Mrs.
Rachel Whittaker in which she advised the
sisters to donate liberally of their means to
help gather the poor; mothers to set a good
example before their children, to teach
them to pray and send them to Sunday
School, and recommended family and secret
prayer. Several of the sisters expressed
their willingness to help to gather the poor.
Benediction by Mrs. Ann Elizabeth Webster.
				ELLEN LUNT, Secretary.
	Accompanying the above report was an
address composed by one of the sisters and
read at the supper table of a Surprise party
given to their President, Mrs. Rachel
Whittaker, in commemoration of he[-] 5th


Birthday, in which the warmest feelings of
love and confidence towards that lady, as a
worthy pattern, were expressed.

	Report from Centreville, August 15th,
1873. Our Relief Society was organized
June 21st 1869, and reorganized Feb. 12th
1876 with Mrs. Margaret H. Randall Presi-
dent, Mrs. Rebecca Porter and Mrs.
Emeline Smith Counselors, Mrs. Mariette
C. Adams Secretary and Miss Sarah L. Smith
Treasurer. As the place is small we don't
gather in as much as they do in larger
places, but the people have responded liber-
ally to the calls that have been made. The
President is ever willing and ready to
engage in any good work, and the sisters
that attend the meetings are united. We
feel that we have done some good in help-
ing the poor at home and abroad and hope
to do more in the years to come. A small
house with a piece of ground were donated
to us by Mrs. Margaret Cherry. By the
liberality of the brethren the house has been
enlarged and we have a comfortable place
in which to meet. The EXPONENT is a
welcome little messenger to us.
				M.C. ADAMS, Secretary.

	In Ogden on the 14th ult., a Relief Society
meeting was held, at which were present
Miss Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs.
Margaret P. Young and Mrs. L. Greene
Richards, from Salt Lake City; and many
officers and members of societies belonging
to adjacent settlements, forming, in connec-
tion with the Ogden Society, a large congre-
gation. The meeting was held in the 
Tabernacle. President Franklin D. Rich-
ards and other Elders on the stand, also
President Mrs. J. S. Richards with her
Counselors and other officers, and the visi-
tors. The congregation was addressed by
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs.
M. I. Horne, Elders P. Richard, F. D.
Richards and Bishop Thomas, the general
spirit of the teachings being for improve-
ment in all the ways of life. Miss Snow's
address will probably be given in full in
another issue of the EXPONENT.
	
	Minutes of the Sixty-Fourth meeting of
the Senior and Junior Co-operative Re-
trenchment Association, held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, August 16,
1873.
	Meeting opened with singing, "Joy to
the world;" Prayer by Counselor Mrs. E.
Howard: Singing, "An Angel from on
high."
	President Mrs. M. I. Horne remarked
that in looking over the congregation, she
thought how few were present in compari-
son with the number of ladies there were
in the city; considerable talking had been
done to the girls of late, but she thought
the mothers in Zion needed talking to quite
as much as their daughters; if mothers
would set their daughters worthy examples,
they would have all influence with them.
It seemed that the teachings were lost on
many, on account of their indifference, yet
it was the duty of each one who had received
knowledge of the truth, to use all the in-
fluence possible for the benefit of her
neighbor. The speaker referred to a meet-
ing she had lately attended at Ogden, in 
company with Sister Snow and others from
the city, and mentioned the number of young
ladies, one hundred and five, who belonged
to the Society of Sisters in Ogden. She
then gave the meeting into the hands of
the sisters, many of whom bore faithful
and interesting testimonies to the truth of
the Gospel.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow said she believed
[new column]
it right and incumbent upon the sisters to
read good books and get all the useful
knowledge they could in relation to the
cause of diseases and how to treat them; in
as much as the Lord had endowed them
with faculties, it was for them to cultivate
and use them; but their chief dependence
and reliance, they should ever keep in mind
was in the power and spirit of God, and
that He alone was able to strengthen and 
preserve the works of His hands. When
young people could be made to understand
the spirit of the Gospel, they had no more
need to be warned against the influence of
the spirit of the world, it was as uncongenial
to their feelings as to those of older people
who realized its follies. If young ladies
were wanted who could be depended upon,
the Retrenchment Associations were the
places in which to look for them. Speaking
of the importance of the present day, Miss
Snow said, "Let every woman who  has
light within her, warn her neighbor, for
this is a day of warning.”
	The congregation sang “We thank thee
O! God, for a prophet.” Other addresses
were made and meeting adjourned for two
weeks.
	Singing, “Praise God from whom all
blessings flow." Benediction by Counselor
Mrs: Z. D. Young.
		MISS M. A. JENKINS, Secretary.

	FOUNTAIN GREEN, SANPETE Co., Utah,
					August 14th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	DEAR SISTER:—It is somewhat a late
date to report to you.
	Our Society was organized on the 11th of
June, 1868, and has been in a prosperous
condition ever since. We have donated
liberally to the poor in our ward and have
made them as comfortable as our means
would allow. We have also donated to the
Temple at St. George. We own $50 in the
capital stock of Fountain Green Co-operative
Mercantile Institution, and have, in the
Treasurers hands about the same amount.
	We have no poor in our Ward that are in
need. The word "Female" was dropped
from our Society at a meeting held in Decem-
ber 1872 by a unanimous vote of the sisters.
We hold our meetings regularly every
month, and a good spirit has always pre-
vailed, and we hope ever will.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor and
we wish it much prosperity. Our President
is upheld by her Counselors, Teachers and
sisters in general. The health of the people
in these parts was never better than at the
present time.
	Yours in the good work,
		POLLY ANN JOHNSON, President.
		ELIZABETH F. Johnson, Secretary.

	A report is given from the 3rd Ward in this
city, of a meeting held August 20th, at which
Mrs. W. Margarett Steel and Mrs. Emma
Wagstaff from the 1st Ward, and Mrs.Sarah
wheeler from the Sugar House Ward were
present. Mrs. Wheeler spoke of the beauty
and comfort she found in her religion, it
was everything to her and her great desire
was to live it and have her family live
according to its perfect principles.
	Mrs. Steel wished the circulation and
influence of the EXPONENT to be increased,
as she felt it to be a means of doing much
good among the sisters.  She hoped the
3rd Ward all attended the General retrench-
ment meetings held in the 14th Ward, all
should go there and hear the good instruc-
tion which were given. President Mrs.
Weiler said she always very much enjoyed
going to the sisters’ meeting in the 14th
Ward, wanted to see the EXPONENT well
[new column]
patronized and sustained. The members of
the 3rd Ward Relief Society were trying to
be faithful and diligent in the performance
of their duties. She hoped they would all
speak their minds freely, that their visitors
might not go away disappointed. Mrs.
Wagstaff said she felt at home among her
sisters of the Third Ward; spoke of the
calamities which were sweeping the earth,
and of the necessity of instructing the young
in the ways of life and of their religion;
they should be taught great care in regard
to the company they kept. Addresses
followed by sisters Fanny Smith, M. Blythe,
E. A. Gleason, M. A. Angel, Z. G. Eardley,
E. P. Weiler, E. Haynes and Elizabeth
Gregory. One of the sisters said her time
was so much taken up with worldly cares that
she had no time to read or write, and hardly
knew when Sunday came; yet she desired
to live her religion and hoped she did not
do wrong. Secretary Mrs. Eardly asked if
it was right for the time to be wholy spent
in the cares of those things which pertain
to this life alone. She often felt grieved
that she had so little time to spend in read-
ing and studying to gain intelligence and
lay up treasures of which no one could rob
her. The young ladies, meetings and Sab-
bath Schools were referred to and all were
advised to encourage and help them. Meet-
ing adjourned for two weeks; dismissed
with singing, and prayer by Counselor Mrs.
Fanny Smith.
	MRS. ELIZABETH WEILER, President.
	MRS. ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY Secretary.

	From the Secretary of the Relief Society
in Paradise, Cache County, we have
received the following: “Our Society was
organized four years ago; the President,
Sister Jennie James, is energetic in her
endeavors to do good. At out last meet-
ing she spoke upon the necessity of the
sisters seeking to improve their minds and
gain understanding; and also of their useing
the abilities with which the Lord has blessed
them, in assisting to carry on His work.
She urged them all to take and read the
EXPONENT, and to write also, and help to
bear testimony to the world, that the
women of the Latter-day Saints are “truly
free,” that they speak and act and write with
freedom, and are not restrained by any
other power than that of their own con-
science and their own feelings and desires.
	And now I wish to give a few of my views,
humbly and in sincerity; for I believe that
the Lord now requires of His daughters
that they, as well as the Elders, speak in
defense of the Truth which He has revealed,
through His wonderous mercies and match-
less grace. I have been a member of the
Church twenty-five years; I entered it for
the sake of the truth, which I love. I have
lived in plural marriage, ten years, and this
order I know for myself was revealed by
God as a portion of a great plan of redemp-
tion for a fallen world. I do think that
every woman who has received the light and
made covenants in the house of the Lord,
should seek, with all the wisdom wherewith
she is endowed, to aid in spreading the glad
tidings of peace and salvation abroad, and
in allaying and transubstantiating the preju-
dice which exists against the works of God
in the Latter-days. I, for one, shall deem
it a great privilege if I, in my simplicity,
can say or write any little word that may
comfort or encourage, or in any way bless a
sister, or a friend, for my whole desire is
to do good in some way.
	You, dear Editor, and a few others have
braved the storm—God bless you! And
may we, your sisters, have courage to step
	CONTINUED TO PAGE EIGHT.


(CONTINUED FROM PAGE THREE.)
forward and add our little offerings, remem-
bering that mountains are made by the 
unity of many mites, and that altogether, 
we may accomplish great and glorious
works; even such as the enemies of right-
eousness, the vain and ignorant will not
dare to scoff at.
	My thoughts have been awakened, while
my soul sickened with the news of a beloved
friend having strayed into darkness and
wandered away from the Truth! And I felt
that the sisters should be on their guard and
watch themselves closely, that they say
nothing and allow no thoughts to remain
with them which may grieve away the
good spirit. But they should converse and
write freely about those things which per-
tain to eternal life and happiness much more
than most of them do; and they should
strive to reason and reflect understandingly
of their own condition and the condition of
the world; and pray always, that they be not
led into temptation and drawn away from
the light. I hope that all my sisters may be
led to realize the great responsibilities which
rest upon them, and strive diligently to live
in a manner, becoming Saints of God, that
His Spirit may guide them into all truth
and righteousness.
	This is my first attempt at writing for
the press, but, however, it may not prove
my last, for I feel it is well for us to try to
build each other up, and thus by united
efforts to sustain the Priesthood.” 
					SINAH BISHOP.

			PLEASANT GROVE CITY,
						August 21, 1873.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   Knowing the desire and interest you have
for the welfare of the Relief Societies, I
take pleasure in sending you a few lines
from this place.
  At our legular monthly meeting, held on
the 9th inst., as usual the members of the
Society were “generally” present and a
lively interest was manifested in the good
work in which we are engaged. Our
Bishop met with us, and by request ad-
dressed the meeting at some length, en-
couraging the sisters in their efforts to do
good in relieving the wants of the needy,
etc. Although their contributions might
appear to be small they should not be dis-
couraged, large mountains were composed
of small particles, the widow’s mite was an
illustration that it was not the great amount
contributed, but the motive which prompted
the action, that would be regarded, and
according to this, all would be rewarded.
He also gave some excellent counsel in
relation to training children; said that
mothers have, as a rule, more influence
with children in their early years than any
other person.
  Several other persons spoke and bore testi-
mony to the truth of the Latter-day work,
and all seemed willing to do to the extent
of their ability to advance the interests of
the Society.
Financially our Society is in a healthy
condition; in addition to administering to
the wants of the poor here, we have assisted,
this season, one brother to emigrate from
Denmark, whose family came here last year.
  To-day we have a general working meet-
ing of the Society, which is well attended.
Knitting, Patch-work, etc is going on at a
lively rate, giving our large hall the ap-
pearance of a hive of working bees.
  Our President, with several of the sisters
is at Provo to-day, attending a meeting held
by our General President, Miss E. R. Snow.
Wishing the success of every good cause,
[new column]
including your valuable journal, I remain,
very respectfully your sister in the covenant
of peace, 
	MISS PAULINA E. BROWN, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT
L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.
  Published semi-monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
  Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
   SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 1, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.
Several fires have been recently reported
in England......Carlton College, Michigan,
has received a donation of $100,000 from
Mrs. Susan Willis, of Charleston....In the Da-
nish West Indies, "reconciling" courts have 
been established, where opposing parties must 
appear and seek to reconcile their difficul-
ties before they are permitted to commence
a suit at law..... Tea merchants in England,
are being arrested, and paying fines for
selling adulterated teas.... The Sandwich
Islands social system is begining to look
rather dark to a writer in Hawaii, who
says the nation is given over to an early and
dishonorable grave.... Late advices charge
McLellan, the postal agent between Wash-
ington and New York with only $50,000
stolen and also say he has not been arrested
nor is likely to be......Indians and engines,
or Indian raids and railroad quarrels have
greatly assisted in keeping up the sensa-
tional interests of daily newspa-
pers for some months past, but seem to be
subsiding somewhat now....The Duke of
Brunswick willed all his land and personal
estate to the city of Geneva.....The Balti-
more "American" celebrated its one hun-
dredth anniversary last month.....The
"Sunday Morning News" is the title of a
new paper just commenced in Stockson,
California......A veteran of 1812 was lately
tripped up by a little pig in Georgia, the
injuries received by the fall causing his
death.....A school teacher in Vermont,
punishes bad boys by making one turn a
grindstone while another bears on it with a 
stick....Prussian troops are vacating France.
......The Shah is said to be so dainty about
his diet that nothing but certain kinds of
fish will do him......A sorrespondent de-
scribes French painting as it appears in the
art galleries of the Vienna Exposition,
as the most artistic of any......Love and 
politics are stated to be the chief causes of
insanity in Spain, where madness is fre-
quent, some of the female occupants of the
asylumhaving been brought there through
the bad effects of novel reading......Men
and women are said to be quite upon an
equality in Colorado, not only in their free-
dom of opinion but in associations and
vocations as well......Emily Faithful gives
occasional receptions at her residence in
Hyde Park, London...A miner in Pioche had a
rock fall upon him recently which weighed
about one thousand pounds, and twenty-
eight hours afterwards was alive and in
full possession of his senses, though the
spinal column was dislocated and the lower 
limbs paralyzed....A town on Kalmur Sound,
Sweden, called Christianople, has been
utterly destroyed by fire....The Massachu-
setts' Republican State Convention will be
held on the 17th inst., at Worcester....The
ship "Oregon," of Quebec, was lately wreck-
ed at Portland, Richie, in the Straits of
Belle Isle, with a valuable cargo.......Ken-
tucky black bees refuse to make honey.....
Sing Sing prisoners have found a means of
escape from the roof......Carpet worms are a 
new pest in New York, but the papers say
they are not so pety as the carpet bag-
gers......A removal of the Tombs is talked
of......Hartford is said to have more assur-
ance than any other city in the country.......
A number of Iowa men are going to "eat"
for the championship of the State, at Atlanta.
......Hack drivers in Milwaukee, have to pay
five dollars if they fail to light their lamps.
......San Jose papers publish appointments
for Senator Maclay's political speeches under
the head of "Amusements.".....In some
counties in California, the Democrats are
called Modocs, and in other, adjoining
[new column]
counties, the Independents are the Modocs.
......The editor of the Tular "Times" is
likely to get spanked by the editor of the
Mariposa "Gazette," at least the latter
threatens it, though they are about one
hundred miles apart.....The pleasantness
of the situation of Martinez, the county seat
of Contra Costa, is said to be almost unknown
to many residents of San Francisco, while
in natural advantages, the former is stated
to surpass all the towns on the eastern shore
of Suisun Bay, where it is situated....A new
kind of sea monster was lately caught in the
bay, near San Francisco, which has the
head of a shark and the body of a porpoise,
measures nine feet ten inches in length
and weighs five hundred pounds......Wit-
nesses in the Stokes' case are still confined
in prison, nor for any crime, but because
they happen to know something concerning
the shooting of Fisk......A San Francisco
editor considers the question of national
currency exceeds all others, and believes
the want of paper money to be the secret of
the depressed state of business throughout 
the country......Three women have been
arrested in Brooklyn, charged with the
murder of a man, of whom one of the
women is the widow....Hay seed in the
hair and blue drilling overalls, it is said,
will be the prevailing styles for Western
politicans this fall......Favorable prospects
for harvests in France are reported this
year......Lotta begins new scintillations in
Philadelphia this month.....The stock of lace
of the  Princess Josephine, cousin to the
ex-Queen of Spain, was lately seized by a
Paris milliner as security for an unpaid bill
of $1,059......The question is asked, when
Tweed is to be tried for his crimes, but the
answer is not given.


ANOTHER STEP.

	Believing, that if properly and intelligently
conducted, many benefits will certainly accrue
from the consummation of the given proposition
—benefits to woman and consequently to man—
and sincerely hopeing that wisdom and pru-
dence may direct every effort of those who may
engage in this worthy attempt to accomplish
great good, we cheerfully append the following
notice, of a proposed “Woman’s Congress,”
which explains itself:
“The necessity of fellowship and concerted
action among women interested in the ad-
vancement of the race and more especially of
their own sex, is so apparent, that we do not
hesitate to assert that by far the larger portion
of our efforts in that direction are fruitless, be-
cause they are solitary and isolated.
Thousands of noble and beneficent women,
scattered all over our country, are to-day think-
ing, writing and speaking the truths which all
women need, and many are waiting to hear,
and which would, at once, be a renovating
o[-]rce in the land, if the believers could, in a


congregated body unite upon practical methods
for their incorporation into government, busi-
ness and social life.
  Therefore in consideration of the present
demand for unity of method among women in-
terested in like objects, Sorosis, whose purpose
is “to render women helpful to each other and
'useful to society," has determined to take the
preliminary steps for bringing the representa-
tive women of the country together in a
Woman’s Congress, that unitedly we may take
into consideration the more important ques-
tions that affect our Woman's life.
  We send this little messenger to all women
who by voice or pen, or practical work, have
conquered an honorable place in any of the
leading reforms of the day, and we cordially
invite them to signify their approbation and
sympathy with our effort by sending us their
names to affix to the formal Call for a “Wo-
man’s Congress,” to be held in New York, in
October, 1873.
  This Messenger will also be sent to such
Women’s Associations as have for their object
the improvement of women in any direction.
  This Call will be issued as soon as we receive
sufficient number of worthy names to insure
the success of the Congress, and we shall not
issue it until we receive that encouragement.
  It is not the intention of Sorosis to take the
lead in the Congress, after it shall be assem-
bled; it will select its officers and govern its[-]lf.
We, meanwhile, constitute ourselves a local
Committee for the preliminary business. As
we, as an associate body, send out this little
sheet, we append to it the names of the officers
of the society, but we shall not affix to the
Call the names of any persons who have not
formally notified us of their willingness or
desire to have their names appear.
Friend! If after you have carefully read our
Messenger, you are willing to assist in calling
the good women of our country together for a
noble object, please send your name and post-
office address to our President or either of our
Secretaries.
MRS. CHARLOTTE B. WILBOUR, President,
			151 East Fifty-first Street, N. Y.
MRS. JENNIE C. GROLY, Ex-Prsident,
MRS. MARY F. DAVIS, Vice-President,
MISS KATE HILLARD,  		"
REV. CELIA BURLEIGH, 		"
PROF. MARIA MITCHELL, 	"
MISS ALICE C. FLETCHER, Rec. Sec.,
		25 Stuyvesant Street, N. Y.
MISS FANNY HOWELL, Cor. Sec.,
		470 Vanderbilt Avenue, Brooklyn.
MISS ROMELIA L. CLAPP,
		Chairman of Executive Committee.
	Some of the questions to be considered by a
Woman’s Congress will be the following:
Higher Education for Woman; Woman’s
Work in Literature; The relation of Woman
to her Dress; Woman, the Promoter of Peace;
Prison Reform, Woman’s work; The Inviolate
Homestead; Equal Division of the Salary be-
tween Husband and Wife; Woman’s Influence
in promoting Temperance; Co-operative indus-
tries among Women; Woman’s place in
Government Systems of Philanthrophy; Law
as it affects Woman; Enlightened Motherhood;
Woman in Surgery and Medicine.”


HOME MANUFACTURE.

	Where is the individual, the family, com-
munity or nation who, being possessed of true
independence is not justly proud of it. And
in what does independence consist, so much as
in the home production of all articles necessary
for life's comforts and conveniences?
	No family that depends on buying the shoes
and stockings, hats, coats, jackets, aprons skirts
and so on, even to suspenders and garters, ready
made—for all its members from father down
to baby—ever knows anything of the real satis-
faction of being, in a measure, independent.
	A little girl never dons a pair of boughten
stockings with the same pleasure, or feels that
they are so perfectly comfortable, as the ones
she has knitted herself. While even the latter
are more satisfactory, if made of yarn spun at
home, from wool which her own dainty fingers
have assisted in preparing for the machine.
And if the recollection of having taken an
occasional run to look after the dear, old sheep
or pretty playful lambs from which the snowy


fleeces were clipped, happens to occur to her
mind some frosty winter's morning, these soft,
warm stockings appear to her to be "thrice
blessed." No far fetched gaiters ever seem
half so nice to her as do the little neat, white
"buck-skin" shoes, fastened with delicate pink
bows, made by the skillful hands of her own
patient, practical mother. This is personal
experience.
	None are so happily situated as those who
are able to manufacture for themselves, instead
of paying out money in order to hire others to
manufacture for them. This statement is no
less true of a nation or a kingdom, than of a
family or an individual.
	The community that chops its wood with
imported axes, churns its butter in imported
churns, clothes itself with materials brought
from other countries or other parts of a country,
imports its school books and its school teachers
or sends its children abroad to be educated; and
manages all its affairs in a similar manner,
can never thrive and become wealthy like the
one which develops its own resources, and is
able to export instead of being obliged to im-
port the common requisites which belong to
civilized life.
	Co-operation is the one great principle, and
the only one, upon which this saving system of
home manufacture can be profitably introduced
into a community. If tradesmen and trades-
women, engaged in all the various departments
of useful industry, could de induced to patron-
ize and sustain each other, as much as possible
in producing, and using home productions, a
beautiful order would thus be established, in
which home manufacture would produce home
independence.
	But so long as each one demands money of
every one, for his or her work, in order that all
may trade where they will, so long as laborers
refuse to sustain each other in their home in-
dustries, there will be little independence
realized, among the masses of the people.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


HOME AFFAIRS.

	We understand that a new daily paper has
been started at Beaver, entitled "The Beaver
Eenterprise."
	There has been considerable threatening of
heavy storms in this valley of late, but as yet
no results of a serious nature have occurred.
	The report of a ladies' meeting, held at
Provo during a late visit of President Miss E.
R. Snow to that city, has reached us, but too
late for insertion in this issue.
	Mrs. Belinda  M. Pratt, of Fillmore has
recently taken the superintendency of the
Relief Co-operative Store in that city, which
she writes us has fair prospects of doing a good
business.
	It is very gratifying to find that a number
of ladies are becoming interested in writing
for the Exponent. We hope to see their en-
deavors increased, and that others will be
encouraged to engage in like undertakings.
	Some of the Relief Society reports in our
present issue are particularly interesting. There
are a few hints in the one from Paradise,
which might be considered with profit by any
woman connected with the good cause of the
Latter-day work.
	Clear cool nights and mornings have char-
acterized the state of the atmosphere in this
valley for several days past. In some portions
of Cache valley, we learn that slight touches of
frost have been apparent during the last days
of the past month.
	A Party of Editorial Excursionists, from
different parts of the Union, lately visited this
city, and as considerable pains was taken by
the Board of Directors of the Deseret Agricul-
tural and Manufacturing Society, and others.
to make their short stay an agreeable one, we
hope it proved such, and that we may hear
some pleasant reports from it.
	Interesting accounts are given of the late
Cache Valley Conference held at Logan City,
by President Young and party. Large and
attentive congregations are reported to have
assembled, as usual on such occasions, from all
parts of the valley.
	This evening is the one for the Sunday
School Convention, being the first Monday in
the month. Teachers should bear it in mind, 
and be present, that they may keep up with
the growing interests of the Sabbath Schools
in this city, and acquaint themselves with the
progressive steps of the Sabbath School Union.
	Brother John Miller, who has delivered
the Exponent to a portion of the subscribers
in this city since its commecement is desirous
of withdrawing from the services thus rendered,
and wishes to notify any lady who would like
her paper delivered for one year, beginning
with the next issue, that he will receive pay
and be responsible for its safe delivery. He
does not propose to receive any further appli-
cations after the 15th, inst.
	Bishops, Post masters, Presidents of Re-
lief Societies and other prominent citizens in
different parts of the Territory, have been
speaking good words and accomplishing good
works for the Woman's Exponent. We ten-
der our grateful acknowledgments for these
efforts from the journal's many and kind
friends, trust they may be continued with as
much earnestness and sincerity in the future
and even greater success; and that the worthy
example may be followed by many others
	President Young, with a party of Elders
from this and neighboring towns, is now on a
tour through the northern settlements of the
Saints, visiting and holding meetings. Com-
munications from members of the company
state that he is in good health, and enjoying
his labors as usual. Their meetings were ap-
pointed for to-day, to be held at Bennington,
Bear Lake Valley; the company expect to re-
turn to their homes on Saturday, the 6th inst.
	Hon. George Q. Cannon, for some years the
editor of the "Deseret News," has retired from
the position on account of a great press of
other duties, and Elder David O. Calder as-
sumes that responsible situation. Both gen-
tlemen are well known in the community as
men of great intelligence and integrity, well
worthy the confidence and good wishes of the
people. We trust the "News," under the man-
agement of Elder Calder, may continue to in-
crease in usefulness, meeting in the direction
of its calling, the wants of the growing popula-
tion and the desires of its new editor.
	A school for ladies, who design studying
and becoming conversant with the science of 
obstetrics, will be opened in this city, in a few
days, by Mary H. Barker, M. D., whose card
appears in this issue of the Exponent. The
lady, we understand, is fully competent to give
a thorough classical course of that which she
undertakes to teach, and is prepared to open a
class as soon as books which have been sent for
arrive from the East. The class will be held
at her rooms, where she will be found by any
lady wishing to make arrangements with her
concerning the school, during her office hours,
which are designated in her card, also her place
of office.
	The Ogden "Junction" tells us about the
Bear River Valley Railroad, which it shows
will soon prove, in mor ways than one, a very
great benefit to the Territory, if the work on it
continues without hinderance, as projected.
It will run from Hilliard on the Union Pacific
Railroad, Southeasterly for twenty miles to
the head of Mill Creek, a tributary of the river.
And it is believed that through this medium,
the best of lumber can be furnished to the
markets cheaper than it can be imported, as
the line will run in easy distance to not less
than 25,000 acres of excellent timber. Other
important advantages are also stated as bear-
ing connection to this new railroad enterprise.


[For the Exponent.
			REASONING.

	I have been reasoning within my own
mind upon the subject of reading fiction, and
concluded that it is entirely wrong and
detrimental to our best interests. It often
seems a fine way to spend our leisure
moments, and entertain those around us.
But it, is not truth, therefore it must be
falsehood; and it appears that we love, and
if we don't make lies we tell them, and the
Scriptures say that whosoever loveth or
maketh a lie shall have their portion in the
lake that burneth with fire and brimstone.
I can now see that this practice is both fool-
ish and wicked, and am fully resolved that
however highly colored and fascinating the
fiction that comes in my way I will shun it
as I would the coils of a serpent which
would extinguish life. For novel reading,
if persisted in, will uproot our love of truth,
fill our minds with trash, leaving no room
for useful knowledge; useing up money and
our precious time, grieving the Holy Spirit,
and leading us down to death. How different
the opposite picture, if our thoughts are
filled with truth, theology, scientific litera-
ture and all the knowledge of God and
our relationship and duties to Him, that we
are His offspring; that He has given us
organizations in His own image, both phys-
ically and mentally, the right use of which
will exalt us in His presence to thrones,
principalities and powers—imparting all
true knowledge as circumstances may re-
quire.
	If we in our duty to Him do good to all;
if we feed the hungry, clothe the naked,
visit and administer to the wants of the
sick and afflicted, then we shall have our
reward. For the Savior will say as is re-
corded in His word "Come ye blessed of my
Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for
you before the foundation of the world."
For I was hungry and ye fed me, thirsty
and ye gave me drink, naked and ye clothed
me, sick and in prison and ye came unto
me. "In as much as ye have done it unto
one of the least of these my brethren, ye
have done it unto me." Now, the Relief
Societies have done this to all the hungry
and destitute of this Territory that they
could search out, and they will have their
reward. And still there is room. We must
"work while the day lasts."
	The rules given by an ancient philosopher
to his pupils, I think are worthy of applica-
tion to ourselves.
	
	"Nor let soft slumber close your eyes,
	Before you've recollected twice
	Thy train of actions through the day,
	'Where have my feet chose, out their way.
	What have I learned wherer'e I've been,
	from all I've heard from all I've seen—
	What duties have I left undone,
	Or into what new follies run?'
	These self-enquiries are the road
	That leads to virtue and to God."
					Excellette.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

   TO THE MEMORY OF BROTHER JOSEPH W.
				 YOUNG

	He lives in the hearts of the people he loved,
		In the hearts of the orphan, and widow, yes; 
	In the hearts of the aged, the lonely, and poor--
		He lived but to comfort and bless.

	Oh Friend! in the days when friends were so few
		The day of thy rest, and glory has come;
	How “Blessed the dead who die in the Lo d,”
		And their labors do follow them home.

	Though the mantle of sorrow falls heavy and dark,
		And thy loved ones must mourn for their Head,
	God pity them! grant them that Spirit of thine, 
		That will sweeten the tears which they shed.

	For the good of the Kingdom his life has been given,
		'Twill be said, “though his body lies low,
	  In the battle of Truth against error he fell
	With his face toward heaven, his f et to the foe !"
	
	Oh true tender heart! farewell for awhile, 
		We all the dark Valley must tread.
	And the humble and true shall meet thee again
		Through the merits of Jesus our Head.
					Agness S, Armstrong.
Ephraim June 15th 1873


[For the Exponent.
		ASSERTION IS NOT PROOF.

	How tiresome it is to have a person con-
tinually thrusting his opinions into your
face, with all the assurance of an oracle,
without ever condescending to give a
reason. You cannot venture your modest
opinion on any subject whatever, without
coming in contact with one of these unsup-
ported, stonewall “surmises” which pertly
assume to be facts. You think the air feels
damp as if a shower was coming; but Mr.
Positive, with great assumption of superi-
ority informs you that “the atmosphere to-
day is dry as a bone.” You think the
use of tobacco injurious to the health–––
“Madam, it is the very best tonic known.”
	You think the free school system a great
blessing.—“Yes, to parents and teachers,
but perfect robbery of those who are
neither.”
	No amount of persuasion could elicit from
him an argument in support of his mighty
opinion, but he expects you to accept un-
questioningly his most absurd dogma as a
fact incontrovertible. And you meet these
plagues in every walk in life.
	Some gravely tell you on no account
to pet and fondle your children unless you
wish to ruin them; but not being able
to see where the harm is, you venture to
inquire how and why that would ruin your
darlings, “Oh I see you don’t believe it,
but you will when it may be too late,” and
that is all the information you can obtain.
	A physician tells you a certain kind of
poultice is good for that swelling on your arm,
but if you ask “How is it good, Doctor?”
you receive a cold stare and the reply “To
make it well;” and it requires real courage
to persist, “Now, Doctor, I must have a fair
answer; if that poultice is “good’ to scatter
this inflamation through my system again,
I do not want it; I want something to
bring it to a center and throw off this im-
purity while there is a chance.”
	You take an interest in the study of
Phrenology and are curtly told it is a perfect
waste of time. Being only in search of
instruction, you mildly inquire “why” and
are wonderfully enlightened by the lucid
“Because there’s not a word of truth or sound
sense in it.”
	You sympathize with the Woman’s
Rights movement and honestly believe that
the mothers of men and women have as
deep an interest in their present and future
welfare as the fathers, and, therefore, would
be if as well educated, quite as capable of
properly shaping their destinies. But you
learn with wonder and awe that “Woman
never was and never will be capable of un-
derstanding political economy nor of ac-
quiring a man’s education.” Having the
testimony of all sacred and profane history
that women have been chief rulers, high
priests, counselors, commanders and war-
riors, you suppose, in your innocence, that
you are to receive some new light on the
subject, but instead of that, your informant,
looks the picture of injured innocence, that
you ever imagine that statement needed
confirmation. Surely you do not doubt his
veracity?
	Now what “I” want to know is just this:
Am I obliged to swallow all these nauseous
doses of wisdom and call them, “good” for
me, or may I speak my mind, and say “If
you can give me a reason sufficient to con-
vince my judgement, then I will accept your
views, if not, I shall consider myself at
liberty to esteem my own opinion as highly
as yours?”
	If in order to be womanly and keep my
“sphere,” I must do the former, then let
spheres take care of themselves for I’ve no
use for them. I do not feel like “giving
proof" of woman’s inferiority by any such
compliant course. Every person, within
whose soul the least spark of reason exists,
has a right to cultivate that reason and give
it satisfaction before adopting any principle
or opinion; and because my head may be
weaker than yours and my judgment less
reliable, is no reason I should not cultivate
and improve them. And when you give
me your views on any given subject and
withhold the support of these views, you
defraud me of an opportunity to cultivate
my judgment and arrive at a just conclusion
for myself.
	You have no more right to force your
unsupported belief on my acceptance, than
Mahomet to spread his religion at the edge
of the sword. If I cannot see as you do
when you are right, that is my misfortune
and I deserve your pity. If you wish to
benefit me by your opinion, show me kindly
the foundation on which your confidence
rests, and then if I cannot see its beauty and
durability, let me alone until my own
experience and observation confirm your
teachings.
	Even the child, the little one of tender
years and immature faculties, has a right
to expect a reason for anything under the
sun which it is taught; and when one is
not given, the child has a perfect right
to reject the teaching.
	“In my opinion,” if this principle were
more generally acted on, a great amount of
existing bigotry and intolerance would be
swept away, and vastly more brotherly
love and charity possess the hearts of
humanity. 
						L. L. D.
BEAVER, Aug. 8th, 1873.


Phraseology.—A gentleman who had
just completed a tour through the wilds of
the West rode up to a house in Illinois,
around which were more improvements
than were common to the country. On in-
quiring of the owner if he would sell the
premises, he replied he would. “What do
you ask?” was the second interrogatory.
“I ax a good deal.”—“How much is that?”
“A right smart chance of money.” —“What
is a right smart chance of money ?” “A heap
more than I gin for it.”—“Well, sir, what
is your price, now, per acre?”—“I’ll allow
I don’t want to sell it.”


THE GREAT CONFLAGRATION.

	The following vivid description of the
late Oregon fire is from the "New North
West" of August 8th. 
	Portland lay asleep. All over the city
the Peace Angel hovered, and the dreams
of thousands as they slumbered in [--]ied
security, were unbroken by premonitions of
danger. But the incendiary did not sleep.
With his fiendish appetite whetted beyond
its ordinary wont, he prowled among the
sun-dried buildings wherein yet greater
combustibles were stored, and at the silent
hour of four, the hour when sleep is sound-
est and danger and suspicion of danger
is supposed to be at rest, he applied a torch
that laid a city low. Well did he lay his
foul purpose. Firemen, watchmen and
policemen were alike lost in the sweet lux-
ury of a morning knap. The prolonged
whistles of steamers at the docks for many
minutes seemed to only woo the dream god.
But at last a solitary fire bell rang out its
sharp alarm. Portland awoke—awoke and 
flocked to open windows, with drowsy eyes
and disheveled hair, with blanched cheek
and fluttering heart and gazed out upon
the great mountains of smoke, surmounted
by slender spires of lurid flame. Another,
and yet another fire bell rang. Men hurried
on their clothes and darted down the ere-
while deserted streets. Women, scarcely
taking time to clothe themselves, followed
at a little distance. Thousands gathered at
the scene of disaster and gazed and strug-
gled, till lot after lot and block after block
fell before the devouring element, driving
back, with the fierce tongues of fire that
possessed them, or the great billows of
smoke that they sent forth, the frantic
owners who fought for longer mastery in
vain.
	Women, with little children clinging to
their clothes, struggled along under all sorts
of burdens. Men, divested of all thought
of self, fought the arch fiend face to face,
saving property wherever they could.
Brothels emptied the low, vile, horrid life
with which they teem into the open streets,
and filled the air with curses. Ministers
stood upon the steps of costly churches
within a stone's throw of these awful dens,
and lifting up their hands and voices, be-
sought the God of elements to stay His
hand. Men, more practical, enshrouded
buildings in wet blankets and prayed with
hose and buckets, and, we trust, silently as
well. Other men, by dozens, became bru-
tally intoxicated, helplessly leaving their
wives and children to bear the burdens of
the day. Our noble firemen  came from Salem,
Oregon City and Vancouver, and chiefly by
the aid of these reinforcements was the con-
flagration headed off before it could destroy
the St. Charles Hotel, the only brick build-
ing that stood between the conflagration
and the almost entire remaining front. The
loss is computed at $1,185,325; insurance
$258,000. It is a greater calamity to the
Northwest than the Chicago fire was to the
central portion of the union, for it is a far
greater loss in proportion to the age of the
country, its wealth and population. But 
our people are again at work. Nothing
daunted, they will not say die. Already
preparations are being made to rebuild
many business houses. Relief committees
will see that the destitute do not suffer, and
though the years will pass away before Portland
recovers from her shock, she will rise from
her ashes, better built than before.


Lucca has been divorced.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RIGHT KIND OF A FARM HOME.

	[The following pleasant sketch of what a
farmer's home should be is from “Harper’s
Magazine” for February. Farmers as they
build homes will do well to pattern after the
picture first described:] Early in October,
Lance and Laura were married, and moved
into their new home. It was far from being
a fashionable or imposing residence, unless
we except Laura’s one extravagance—the
little bow-window; but it had an eminently
cozy, homelike air. The moment you step-
ped inside, you received a comfortable,
cheerful impression, as if here were a place
where people were in the habit of enjoying
themselves.
	Entering a little square hall--on one side
was the dining-room; on the other, the par-
lor; back of the parlor, the bed-room; the
furnace imparting a summer temperature,
the doors of their adjoining rooms all stood
open, giving good air, and a deal of roomi-
ness for so small a house. The parlor paper
was a green and gilt flower on a light drab
ground; the carpet an ingrain, small checks,
green the predominant color. Through the
bow-window the sun shone brightly in over
Laura's plants, making a summer within,
even if it were winter outside. Each side
of the bow-window, on little brackets, were
Parian busts—Eve and Psyche—wedding
presents, looked out from English ivy that
twined around them, and then met over the
hanging basket in the middle of the win-
dow.  On the walls hung two or three good
engravings and photographs; over them
clusters of bright autumn leaves. A set of
hanging book-shelves, bearing the united
library of Lance and Laura, presented an
odd combination of poetry and works on
Agriculture and "The Horse." Then there
was a lounge which "was" a lounge—not a
rack contrived to exasperate the human
frame to the utmost by its’ knobbiness—an
easy-chair a camp chair, a shaker rocking-
chair, one or two cane-seated chairs, a centre-
table with the big lamp, books, papers, and
Laura's work-basket.
	This was the family sitting-room. Look-
ing in of an evening, you would have seen
Lance on one side of the table in the big
easy-chair, reading his paper, or chatting
with Laura, sitting opposite in her shaker
rocker with  sewing. One great advan-
tage in marrying a farmer is, that you have
him at home with you evenings, provided
you make yourself tolerably aggreable to
him. Laura, even if she were married,
still thought it worth while to fashionably
arrange her hair, wear the bright bow, the
dainty collar, the little et cetras that really
add so much to woman's attractions. Lance
had too much respect for Laura and himself
too to sit down for the evening in his old
frock, tumbled hair, overalls tucked into
coarse boots, savoring strongly of the barn-
yard. He brushed his hair, donned an old
coat and slippers, and so, with a little trouble,
gaining vastly in comfort and his wife's
affections.
	From their windows the light of a happy
home streamed, cheerfully out, a benediction
to the passer-by. People were fond of drop-
ping in there for an evening, it was "so
pleasant," they said. Many a farmer's boy
and girl, after an evening at Lance's, went
home thinking farming wasn't so bad, after
all, and they wouldn't be in such a hurry to
grow old enough to leave for the city, if it
could be as pleasant at home. For fashion in
Knipsic Farms had generally ordained an
entirely different order of things from that
prevailing at Lance's. The parlor of every
respectable farmer must contain a very hard
and slippery hair-cloth, sofa, six chairs, and
a huge rocking-chair possessing the same
qualities in even a greater degree; other
furniture to correspond, arranged at stiff
angles around the walls. This sacred ap-
partment, as well as the whole part of the
house, was kept cold, dark, shut up, and
suggestive to the bold invader who dared
penetrate its dreary shades only of funer-
als. The family lived mostly in the kitchen,
sustained, probably, by the proud conscious-
ness of possessing a best parlor and hair-cloth
furniture. Passing by at night, you would
think the house uninhabited, did not a ray
of light from way back in the L reassure
you. Did company come unexpectedly, so
great a parade was made of building fires,
opening rooms, getting out the best things
that the unfortunate guest felt he should
never dare come again. So Lance and
Laura were unconsciously doing missionary
work that a farmer's home need not neces-
sarily be destitute of any desirable comfort
or refinement.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

ADVICE TO LADIES UPON COSTUME

	In no way has civilized man played more
fantastic tricks, and sacrificed his reason
more entirely to folly, than in the matter of
dress. The clumsy and inconvenient gar-
ments of the savage, are attributed to his
ignorance of domestic arts; but what can be
said in excuse for civilized man, when he
wears shoes that project half a yard beyond
his feet, or exchanges his own locks for
a periwig filled with powder and pomatum;
when the graceful motion of a lady’s head is
sacrificed to the stiff movements necessary
in balancing a tower of linen and wire,
half a yard high, with draperies that flow
from the top of it to the floor; when the
wavy lines of a female form are disguised
under a stff circle of whalebone, which im-
prisons the body from the hips upward, and
a buckram cage so surrounds the lower limbs,
that she can with difficulty walk or sit.
Some false standard of beauty, invented
perhaps to conceal some deformity, is set
up, and then the very bones and mucles of
the perfect body must be made to conform
to it. When this is carried so far as it is in
the case of small feet in China, its absurdity
strikes us at once; but we may find, nearer
home, instances of a standard as false, and
consequences even more fatal to health and
happiness than the little feet of the Chinese.
	The history of national costume in the
civilized countries of Europe shows, that for
many centuries the progress of art and
manufactures only led to greater extrava-
gance in dress, and more preposterous
fashions. One enormity was only displaced
to make way for the opposite extreme, as
in the case of the peaked-toed shoes already
mentioned; these were followed by shoes of
only the length of the foot, but as broad as
they were long. At one time men’s coats
were so short that they resembled boy’s
jackets of the present day, and soon after
they were so long and full that they looked
like female attire. Women's sleeves were
sometimes made so long that they were tied
in knots, to prevent the wearer from tread-
ing on them, and nine yards of cloth was a
moderate quantity for each sleeve; and then
they were made as tight as skin, and
reached no father than the elbow. It would
seem that for centuries the whole ingenuity
of a nation was taxed to invent monstrous
forms of clothing, as well as inconvenient
and useless appendages, and that comfort
and ease were the things most of all to be
avoided in dress.
	After the general fashion of hoops had
passed away, and when they were gazed
after, on gala days only, as a raree-show, it
was difficult to imagine rational beings
reconciled to them, and considering them
an indispensible part of female attire, or to
believe that they were once so universal in
London, that maid-servants were seen
washing down the door-steps in hoop--petti-
coats. Yet such was actually the case before
they were left off by the higher classes.
	This reflection upon past fashions should
make us look with jealous eyes on those
which prevail in our day, in order to dis-
cover whether we are not in the practice of
something which will appear equally absurd
to future generations. The French nation
has long been the arbiter of fashion for most
civilized countries and the political revolu-
tion of the last century was accompanied by
a revolution in dress almost as signal; for it
banished wigs and buckles, powder and
pomatum, stiff stays and full petticoats,
long waists, and high-heeled shoes. One
extreme led to another, and the ladies who
had been encased in whalebone, bukrum.
and abundance of quilted petticoats, stepped
forth as Grecian goddesses, without any
corsets, any petticoats, any fulness to their
garments, or any heels to their shoes.
White muslin dresses of the scantiest
dimensions, drawn closely round the figure,
with the shortest possible waists, and not a
fold or a plait that could form any drapery,
were the order of the day in France and
quickly spread into England. Only look
at the portraits in the historical pictures of
that period—such for instance, as the coro-
nation of Napoleon—and you will be so
shocked at the tight sleeves, short waists, and
narrow skirts of the women, that it will be
difficult to believe that such a style of dress
ever looked well.
	The influence of fashion is so strong in
corrupting the eye, and perverting the taste,
that it has led some persons to doubt the
existance of any true standard of beauty as
applicable to costume; but as long as some
forms of dress, when out of fashion, look
better to us than others, we may fairly con-
clude that there are some immutable princi-
ples of taste connected with the subject,
and that those articles which we admire,
after they have ceased to be the reigning
mode, conform in some degree to true taste.
Such for instance, is the simple cap called
after Mary Queen of Scots. When the pre-
vailing fashions are most opposed to the flat
shape of the Mary-Queen-of-Scots cap, it still
appears to us beautiful; and when adopted
by a modern fine lady, as her costume in a
portrait, or her dress at a masquerade ball, it
is pronounced to be highly becoming. Now,
this is not the case with the monstrous
constructions of gauze, ribbon, and wire,
that was called caps fifty years ago; nor with
any of those head-dresses, which outrage
common sense, and set all proportion at de-
fiance. As soon as the enormous horse-hair
cushions, over which the locks were combed
and plastered with powder and pomatum,
went out of fashion, that style of head-dress
was condemned as hideous.
	Now, if there are principles of true taste
involved in the mysteries of a lady’s toilet,
is not the study of them worthy of a refined
and intellectual being; and would not her
time and thoughts be better spent in con-
forming her style of dress to them, than in
eagerly following every change of fashion
dictated by the love of novelty, apart from
real beauty?—“English Paper.”

	Paint.—To get rid of the smell of oil
paint, plunge a handful of hay into a pail
full of water, and let it stand in the room
newly painted.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


HELP YOURSELF.

	Fight your own battles. Hoe your own
row. Ask no favors of any one, and you will
succeed five thousand times better than one
who is always beseching some one’s influ-
ence or patronage. No one will ever help as
you can help yourself, because no one can be
so heartily interested in your affairs. The
first step will not be such a long one, per-
haps; but carving your own way up the
mountain, you will make one lead to another,
and stand firm in that while you chop still
another out.
	Men who have made fortunes are not
those who have five thousand dollars given
them to start with, but boys who have
started fair with a well-earned dollar or
two. Men who have acquired fame have
never been thrust into popularity by puffs
begged or paid for; or given in friendly
spirit. They have outstretched their own
hands and have touched the public heart.
	Men who win love do their own wooing,
and I never knew a man fail so signally as
one who induced his affectionate grand-
mama to speak a good word for him.
Whether you work for fame, for love,
for money, or for anything else, work with
your hands and heart and brain. Say “I
will,” and some day you will conquer.
Never let any man have to say, “I have
dragged you up.” Too many friends some-
times hurt a man more than none at all.––
“Grace Greenwood."


DIVERSIONS.

	The Shortest Day.––The day before
that on which you have a bill becoming due,
which you are unable to meet.
	An American editor cautions his readers
against kissing short girls, because this habit
has made him round shouldered.
	“Jem, you’ve been drinking.”—“ No, I
haven’t; I’ve been looking at another man
drinking, and it was too much for me.”
	Slow Work— Making an auger hole with
a gimlet, eating soup with a fork, and run-
ning to fires on crutches.
	What are you writing such a big hand
for, Pat?” “Why, you see, my grand-
mother’s dafe, and I’m writing a loud letter
to her!
	To kiss a rosy-cheeked girl and find your
mouth filled with Venetian red, and the
girl grown suddenly pale, is truly awful.
	Refinement. — A servant-maid, in a
small town in Herefordshire, last week left
her situation in consequence of her being
incapable of "reconciling her feelings to the
very bad grammar spoken by her mistress.”
—Country Paper.
	Anecdote of Northcote.—One day Sir
W. Knighton called upon the veteran and
asked him, "What do you know of the
Prince Regent?" “Nothing," said North-
cote; "what should I?" “Why, he knows
you very well," said Knighton. “Who
says so?” "Himself” "Poo!” said
Northcote; “it is only his brag."
	Somewhere in the West, a sable knight
of the lather and brush was performing the
operation of shaving a hoosier with a dull
razor. “Stop!" said the hoosier, “that
won’t do.” "What’s the matta, boss?”
“That razor pulls.” “ Well, no matta for
dat, sah. If de handle of de razor don’t
break, de beard’s bound to cum off!”—
Pittsburg Mercury.


MARY H. BAKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 8 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS, 
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
  	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		jel5

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 81, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.

	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
nd there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the TELEGRAPH WASHING MACHINE, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P.O. Box 474, Salt Lake City."
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

			NEW CLUB RATES.
	
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12X16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4	-	-	-	-		 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1873	    No. 8.


EDITORIAL NOTES.	

	"Dolly Vardens" is the title of
political party that figured conspicuously
the recent California elections.
The Pope has been ill; once such a rumor
might have startled all Europe; now it
forms a brief paragraph for the newspapers.
Such is the change fine brings.
The British government on the 9th
Inst., through its agents Sir E. Thornton
and Mr. Archibald, paid the fifteen and
a half million dollars, awarded by the Gen-
eva arbitration tribunal to the United States
government.
Recently a man in Virginia City, 
Nevada, was fined $25 dollars for striking a
squaw in the face with an orange. We are
glad to see that even an Indian woman can
sometimes have justice done her. 
Trowsers with one leg is the latest
name given to the civilized feminine style
of dress. At least this is the appelation
used by the fair ladies of Persia to convey
their idea of a European lady's dresses.
Garrit Smith presented Susan B. An-
thony with some money towards paying the
fine imposed on her for practically testing
her right to a Constitutional vote; but in
our opinion spoiled the value of his gift by
depreciating fidelity to the Constitution.
Late Telegrams indicate that Peru is
determined to advance in education. Free
schools are established there, and the Peru-
vian Congres has passed a free school law
requiring citizens to school their children
or suffer the penalty of a heavy fine.
The Prince of Wales keeps at Marlbor-
ough House a mark-book in which is noted
the progress of his children in their studies
and their good deportment. One excellent 
plan that was practiced by his father, Prince
Albert, and one which other parents  might
try with good results. 
Severe injuries to a farmer and his
wife, the death of two of their children, a
horse killed and a wagon smashed to frag-
ments, were the results of the farmer's
trying to urge his team across the track just
before a coming train, near Galion, O.,
lately. The danger signal was given but
the engineer could not prevent the fearful
accident. A sad, and we trust a useful
warning to persons who, in their impatience
might attempt to run a similar risk.
A movement is reported [--] foot in St.
Paul, Minnesota, to lessen the social evil by
publishing in the city newspapers the names
of all who are known to visit houses of ill
fame. If the proposed plan be carried out
honestly it would be, we think, much more
likely to effect good results than the infa-
mous plan of licensing such places. And it
would be more likely to strike at the root
of the evil by holding up to public contempt
those who patronize and encourage prosti-
tution. 
Reports of seven fires in as many dif-
ferent places, not including the burning of
seven cars on an Eastern railroad, the loss
of twenty-five lives at Havana, where
parents threw their children from the bal-
conies to save them from the flames; and
the destruction of property loss by one fire
[new column]
not given, valued in the aggregate at
$800,212,00 was noted while glancing over
a morning newspaper; no particular issue
being selected. Is not the above significant
of the signs to appear in the last days?
The following may not be new to some
but we deem it too good to pass over:
M'me Bres has received the degree of
Doctor of Medicine, in France. Her certifi-
cate runs thus: M'me Bres, a married
woman and mother of two children, does
not study medicine as a pastime or by rea-
son of scientific vanity. She fulfils all the
duties of her profession. During both
sieges of Paris she never left the bedside o
our wounded soldiers.”   When woman,
to practical benevolence, courage and gentle-
ness, also adds the requisite knowledge
and skill, acquired by close application, she
may perform, deed that would grace an
angel of mercy."
One of our exchanges, “The Pioneer,”
actively San  Francisco weekly devoted to
the interests of woman has had an editorial
change; Mrs. E.P. Stevens after a five years
successful management retires from the edi-
torship, and Mrs. C. C. Calhoun assumes the
native duties of journalism with the follow-
ing line of conduct marked out, “viz; The
unflinching championship of Woman's Suf-
frage as it is understood before the world in
the right of woman to approach—and partic-
ipation in the privilege vouchsafed in the
imperishable Constitution of the United
States of North America—Only this and
nothing more, and this too, strictly and
“only within the law of the land we live
[--]
Persons should be very cautious about
trying to get on railway cars when in
motion, for even those constantly employed
about a train and who are supposed to be
familiar with its every movement are not
always safe. Several serious accidents in
this Territory have occurred through at-
tempting to get on or off the cars when in
motion, of which we are reminded when
reading a telegraphic account of a terrible
accident that occurred on the Lake Shore &
M. S. R. R. A young man employed as
brakesman jumped on a car which was
moving towards him, but his foot slipping,
was caught in the machinery and notwith-
standing his struggles to save himself he
was fearfully mangled, and death soon came
to relieve him of his sufferings. 
When people are about to build, though 
their means may be limited, they should
consider the probabilities and wants of in- 
door life; and while aiming to adapt their
dwellings as far as they can, to secure
ventillation, roominess and convenience,they
should also remember that the bed-room is
not or should not be the least important part
of the house; that a small back room will not
do as well as any place, while the front, best
and, perchance, the largest room is reserved
for occasional use when entertaining visit-
ors. When people take a proper amount of
sleep they spend on an average, nearly a
third of their lives in bed, and when sick
or perhaps suffering from an accident which
confines them indoors and most likely to
their chambers. they need all the invigorat-
ing influences that nature supplies in the
[new column]
form of fresh air, sunshine and pleasant
prospects. For these reasons, a southern or
eastern aspect should be preferred; the ceil-
ing should be high, and the mode of
ventilation as convenient and ample as is
possble; while the windows should be high
and free enough from drapery to admit
plenty of light and the carpets and furniture
not so good that the sunshine will be ex-
cluded for fear of spoiling them. Light is
a far greater curative agent than many
suppose. It is asserted that Sir James
Wylie, late physician to the Emperor of
Russia, having attentively studied the effect
of light as a curative agent, in the Hospital
of St. Petersburg, discovered  that the
number of patients who were cured in rooms
properly lighted was four times those con-
fined in dark rooms.  This led to a complete
reform in lighting the hospitals of Russia,
and with the most beneficial results." Who
is there that having suffered with protracted
illness does not know the pleasure with
which the weary sufferer longs for, and
hails the coming dawn. Then let the sun-
shine in and with it more health and happi-
ness.


MORE THAN twenty years ago, the "New
York Gazette" published the following
argument, used by a canal stockholder, in
opposition to railways, which might now
be considered to have had a touch of the
"prophetic," in the main, though humorous
in style: "He saw what would be the
effect of it; that it would set the whole
world a gadding. Twenty miles an hour,
sir! Why, you will not be able to keep an
apprentice boy at his work; every Saturday
evening he must take a trip to Ohio to
spend the Sabbath with his sweetheart.
Grave plodding citizens will be flying about
like comets. All local attachments must
be at an end. It will encourage flightiness
of intellect. Veracious people will turn
into the most miserable liars; all their
conceptions will be exaggerated by their
magnificent notions of distances. 'Only a
hundred miles off! Tut, nonsense, I'll step
across, madam. and bring your fan!'—'Pray,
sir, will you dine at my little box at Alleg-
hanny?'—'Why, indeed, I don't know; I
shall be in town until twelve. Well I shall
be there, but you must let me off in time
for the theatre.' And then, sir, there will
be barrels of pork, and cargoes of flour and
chaldrons of coals, and even lead and
whisky, and such other like things, that
have been used to sober traveling, whisking
away like a set of sky rockets. It will upset
all the gravity of the nation. If two gentle-
men have an affair of honor, they have only
to steal off to the Rocky Mountains, and
there no jurisdiction can touch them. And
then, sir, think of flying for debt. A set
of baliffs mounted on bomb-shells would
not overtake an absconded debtor, only
give him a fair start. Upon the whole, sir,
it is a pestilential, topsy-turvy, harum-
scarum whirligig. Give me the old, solemn
straight-forward, regular Dutch canal—three
miles an hour for expresses, and two for jog
and trot journeys—with a yoke of oxen for a
heavy load. I go for beasts of burden; it is
more primitive and scriptural, and suits a
moral and religious people better. None of
your hop-skip-and-jump whims now for me."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE WORLD OF LOVE.

It is sweet as we journey through life.
	So darkened by sorrow and sin,
So full of unbrotherly strife,
	So far from the goal we would win—

To know that a bright world of love
	Surrounds us in every land;
To know that the angels above
	Rejoice to be ever at hand

	To "lift up the lap of the dark
	And speak clearer" of that which they know;
To kindle the heavenly spark
	Which brighter and purer shall glow:

To comfort, to counsel, to warn,
	To lighten the burden of care;
To point to a happier morn,
	To banish the gloom of despair:

To give bread to the famishing soul.
	And freedom to those that are bound;
And still as the ages unroll
	Spread "more light" to the nations around:

To speak of our Father in Heaven,
	To speak of our brothers on earth,
Of the penitent sinner forgiven,
	Of death as the spirit's new birth

In a world more divinely fair
	Than foot of man ever has trod;
No sorrow, nor trouble, nor care.
	In that glorious city of God.

O, 'tis sweet to hold converse with those
	Who have gone to the world of the blest,
Where the tree of life evermore grows,
	And the soul that is weary may rest!
							Selected,


R.S. REPORTS.
	Minutes of the 14th and 16th meetings,
held by the young ladies of the 10th Ward
have been handed in, from the first of which
we select for the present issue, the following
items: Reading from the "Juvenile In-
structor," History of the Church, by Miss
Lizzie Edmunds. Miss Nettie Poll read a
poem from the Exponent, entitled 'Don't
Let Mother do it!" An original essay was
read by Miss Martha M. H. Paul. Presi-
dent Mrs. M. J. Pierce remarked that she
was pleased with the reading exercises,
especially 'Don't let mother do it!' 'Girls,'
she said, 'take heed to what is contained in
those few lines, and don't let mother work
so hard; help her all you can, and strive to
be her greatest comfort. You may not
know what trouble she has passed through
and how much she needs a comforter. And
who can be a greater comfort to a mother,
than a good, affectionate daughter? I have
heard girls say to their mothers, 'I don't
want to do this, it will soil my hands.' How
wrong and foolish! Mother has soiled her
hands many times for us all, and we can
never repay her for what she has done for
us. Instead of going out so often as some
of us do, let us stay at home and help
mother, and we will be blest.' Mrs. Ann
D. McAllister warned the young girls who
had to go out at service, against going to
fashionable hotels to work. It was no dis-
grace to work for a living but girls should
be cautious where and by whom they were
employed in these days. Mrs. A. M.
Pierce spoke of the the great necessity there
was for prayer and watchfulness. Miss A.
Graham felt that great good would result
from the little meetings which were held
by the young ladies; they were thus prepar-
ing themselves for future usefulness. Miss
Lizzie Edmunds knew that it was the Spirit
of God that brought them together with 
such happy hearts, and hoped they would
cultivate that spirit and that it might con-
tinue with them. Miss Charlottie Hile-
stead believed that, if they were united in
their efforts they would continue to improve
[new column]
and that the Lord would sanction and bless
their efforts. Mrs. H. Tout and Mrs. A.
Wilcox made appropriate remarks.
	Miss M. A. Jenkins forwarded a report of
the 23rd meeting of the Young Ladies'
Association of the 4th Ward. The meeting
was opened with singing and prayer;
catechism was recited by the members
present, and the meeting was addressed by
President Miss M. E. Bailey, Counselors
Mrs. Mahalia Jenkins and Mrs. M. A. Care-
less, Miss M. Jones and Miss L. Hague.
Original and selected articles were read and
meeting adjourned for two weeks.
		Provo City, August 21st, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	Yesterday, according to appointment,
Sister Eliza R. Snow, on a visit to the
sisters of this city addressed a large and 
attentive audience of the members of the
Relief Societies at the Meeting House.
Sister Holden, of the 4th Ward, called the
meeting to order, after singing by the
choir prayer was offered by Elder J.P.R.
Johnson. The choir sang "Oh my Father
thou that dwellest." Sister M. T. Smoot
then introduced the speaker to the audience,
who, after expressing her pleasure at meet-
ing so many of her sisters, and her thank-
fulness to God for his protecting care during
her Eastern tour, gave an interesting account
of her travels. In her remarks, the speaker
referred to the principle of plural marriage,
urging mothers to teach it to their daughters;
alluded to the instructions of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, that the Relief Societies
were empowered to create any officers that
were deemed necessary for the well being
of their organizations. Therefore it was
moved and seconded that Sister Margaret
T. Smoot be sustained as President of the
four Presidents of Provo City Relief Socie-
ties, which was unanimous by the vote of
sisters present.
	At the close of Sister Snow's remarks,
Sister Elizabeth Howard, of Salt Lake Co.,
read the following

			ACROSTIO
	Addressed to our beloved Sister
			Eliza R. Snow
On her first visit to Provo City after returning from
			Jerusalem.

	Each faithful Saint, without a doubt,
	Love's courtesies would fain extend,
	In fact, although we may not shout,	Zion would welcome Zion's friend.
	As such no sister that we know,
	Ranks higher than dear Sister Snow.
	Sincerely then, we wish her joy,
	Nor, only wish but would employ.
	Our means, or ought, that joy imparts,
	Within our pow'r with all our hearts.
						Henry Maiben
			On behalf of the ladies of Provo City.
After which the choir sang "Sweet bye
and bye" with chorus, which was most
beautifully and effectively rendered.
	Benediction by Elder J. P. R. Johnson.
	Minutes of the 65th meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation, held August 30th, at the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt Lake City.
Meeting opened by singing, "Arise O
glorious Zion." Prayer by Mrs. What-
mough. Singing, "May we who know the
joyful sound." The Secretary being absent
Miss Hattie Woolly was appointed to act in
her place.
	Minutes of the last meeting were read
and accepted. Also minutes of the 10th
Ward Junior Association. President Mrs.
M. I. Horne observed; that it is gratifying
and interesting to hear the minutes of our
young ladies' meetings. They show, to us
that our efforts, made under the direction
of President Young, have not been lost. I
[new column]
was particularly impressed with the second
hymn which contained a line taken from
the words of the Savior, "Be ye not hearers
of the word alone but doers of it also." It
is by "doing" the things which we are com-
manded that we shall gain blessings. It
appears to me that the people are losing sight
of the object for which they came here, and
that the spirit of the world has taken
possession of them. Our religion is prac-
tical, and unless we obey the principles
contained therein we will not be able to
endure and overcome the  trials which we
must pass through in order to obtain celes-
tial glory. The Lord says, "He chasteneth
every son and daughter he receiveth." We
must not forget that our covenants are just
as binding upon us at the present time, as
they were when we first embraced the gos-
pel. Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said; I
will give a brief account of my visit south.
Mrs. Howard and myself have been visiting
the various Relief Societies of some of the
southern settlements. We had large and
attentive audiences composed of both ladies
and gentlemen. The first meeting we
attended was held last Thursday in Provo.
On Friday we met with the brethren and
sisters of Payson, the former requesting the
privilege of attending, and I really think
the brethren need quite as much instruction
in regard to the design of the Relief Socie-
ties as the sisters. Saturday and Sunday,
attended a general two-days meeting at
Salem. The following day we met the
brethren and sisters at a meeting held in
the Bowery of that place; Tuesday held
meeting at Springville; Wednesday met
with their President and Board at Bishop
Smoot's residence and spent the afternoon
in an organized meeting. Thursday we
visited the Relief Society at Pleasant Grove;
and on Friday attended meeting at Ameri-
can Fork. In all those places I spoke of
our young ladies' organizations and of their
success. I told them the minutes of their
meetings were instructive to the old as well
as to the young, and that in associating to-
gether they have obtained the Spirit of God
which enables them to understand as we do.
I urged the necessity of our young men be-
ing organized. The Bishops seemed to see
that it was necessary tha something should
be done towards their improvement. The
young women of Payson have an organiza-
tion and while there we appointed a good
motherly lady Superintendent to whom the
young ladies could refer for counsel. In
other places they seemed to realize the im-
portance of something being done to save
those born in Zion. I, like Sister Horne,
do not believe in enthusiasm but believe
in being wide awake Saints. I remarked
in Springville that I liked whole hearted
Saints—those who could forget their selfish
interests and seek only for the advancement
of the Kingdom of God. Would we but
look upon things as they truly exist we
should find there should be but one mutual,
general interest. In a city of twenty thou-
sand inhabitants, the majority of whom
profess to be Latter-day Saints this room
should be filled to overflowing. This organiza-
tion, in connection with the Relief Societies,
is one of the aids in assisting the Kingdom
of God to attain unto perfection, and it is a
shame that these meetings are not more
appreciated by the sisters.
	The sisters of the various Wards have
accomplished much but not one tenth of
of their duties has yet been performed.
These Societies in their organization, are
designed to elevate and purify women; to
make our drughters ornaments in Zion, in-
stead of being the trifling, good-for-nothing
specimens of human life that, in too many
instances we see in our midst; to look after


the poor and administer to their wants,
which is an angelic service, is only a tith-
ing of what should be the result of these
organizations. If the people understood
this subject as Joseph Smith did, the moral
character of every woman, who is not a
member of a R. Society would be questioned.
It is the privilege of woman to give charac-
ter to society, and she does do it. As sure
as the sisters arise and take hold of the
work, the brethren will wake up, because
they must be at the head, and instead of
devoting their attention to the gaining of
temporal wealth which is perishable, they
will seek first the Kingdom of God, and let
the Lord add his blessings which he has
promised. Counselor Zina D. Young said:
dear sisters we have been truly blessed 
this afternoon in hearing the words of life
and salvation; they are just as binding upon
us as though they had  been given by pro-
phets. Were it not for tradition many
would hail the sound of the Gospel as a
priceless boon. Woman has much to do;
how active we should be in seeking to carry
out the work which is before us. I feel
grateful to God that our lot is cast in this
land and in this time. We should consider
ourselves blessed above all other women in
the world. Mrs. Howard and Mrs. Pixton
made interesting remarks after which
Counselor Mrs. Woodruff said: I feel like
expressing my satisfaction with the remarks
we have heard. We enjoy many priveleges,
and I would that we could more fully appre-
ciate them. For one I am thankful to be
permitted to have a name among this people,
who are or should be a light to the world.
Counselor Mrs. S. Kimball remarked that;
I am pleased with the privilege of adding my
testimony to what has been said. If I may
select any subject which has been more in-
teresting to me than another it is that
touching upon the necessity of understand-
ing the organization of the Relief Societies.
I know of no Ward that properly sustains
them and if there is a remedy I don't know
where to find it. I have thought the sisters
were benefitted by meeting together and
interchanging ideas. Sister Horne once
suggested that we send missionaries to the
different Wards. Mrs. Mary. R. Thompson
observed, that she had always felt a deep
interest in the Relief Societies and was
pleased to hear so good a report from the
southern settlements. Mrs. Whatmough
spoke of the interest she had felt for the
daughters of Zion. The young ladies of the
19th Ward were once organized into a Re-
trenchment Society, but their President had
now left the city and for some time past
their meetings had been discontinued. She
felt very anxious to have them reorganized,
being willing to open her house for them to
hold meetings in, supplying lights and fire
during the winter. Counselor E. R. Snow
said: My sisters, here is an opening to do
a work of salvation. We all desire to do
good, but we have got to take some tangi-
ble points. It is good to fast and pray but
we must combine some particular acts with
our faith. In our efforts to produce a reform
among the young we met the greatest
opposition from those who should have been
saviors on Mount Zion. Let every mother
encourage the movement spoken of by Mrs. Wat-
mough. Our young people know nothing of the
power of the Gospel. In the early days of the
Church, children as well as parents possessed the
Spirit of God. Let every sister realize that she
is called to be a savior on Mount Zion, and en-
gaged in the work of salvation which is needed in
our midst every day. It does not do to only think,
feel, and talk but we have got to succeed in our
aims, and so sure as the young ladies become
Saints, the young men will exert themselves to be-
come Saints. I am thankful that we have one
organization of young men in our city. After short
and very interesting remarks from others...the
meeting adjourned for two weeks, after singing,
"Wake O wake the world from sleeping," and
benediction by Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Take things quietly, friends! and you
will thereby protect yourselves, and those
around you, from much unnecessary trouble.
Doubtless, there are many things in the
world calculated to try our temper, to per-
plex and torment us; but taking them
quietly is the best way of lessening their
power. If a man, carrying a basket of eggs
on his head, meets with an accident, where-
by the basket is overturned, and the eggs
are broken, will the stamping and storming,
his tearing and swearing, lessen his misfor-
tune, or recover one of his broken eggs?
Surely not; then, how vain is the indulgence
of his frenzy, and how much wiser would it
be to take things quietly! There are some
persons who can hardly live on earth unless
they are bouncing and bursting about like
so many squibs and crackers, and who, one
might imagine, would hardly think heaven
itself worth having, unless they went there
in a sky-rocket! Avoid such people as you
would a bomb-shell. What is the use of
going through the world like a volcano,
raging and roaring, spitting and spouting
fire in every direction, annoying others
and spending ourselves to no purpose?
	We have heard of the philosopher who
on observing a man frantic with grief, tear-
ing the hair from his head, exclaimed to
those around, "Doeth this man think that
baldness is a remedy for grief?" There was
much wisdom in the remark. If, by giving
way to passion or ungovernable grief, we
could thereby remove or lessen our afflic-
tions, there would be some sense in our
raving; but if, on the contrary, it invariably
increased our distress, why then, friends:
you will agree with us that it is much better
to take things quietly. By calmness and
self-possession our energies are rendered
doubly effective; and a man with an unruf-
fled spirit does that easily which under the
influence of passion he could not perform at
all.—"Miscellany."
	Seasoning Glass.—Place the glass in a
vessel of cold water and heat the water
gradually until it boils. Glasses of every
description thus prepared, it is said will
afterwards bear boiling water poured on
them without injury.
	Lemon Dumplings.—Mince four ounces
of suet, and mix it with the same quantity
of moist sugar, half a pound of bread-crumbs,
and the juice and peel of a lemon cut small.
Put them into tea cups and boil them three
quarters of an hour.
	Cleaning Stoves.—Stove luster, when
mixed with turpentine and applied in the
usual manner, is blacker, more glossy and
more durable than when mixed with any
other liquid. The turpentine prevents rust,
and when put on an old rusty stove will
make it look as good as new.
	Lemon Pie.—One tablespoonful of corn
starch, wet with a little cold water, stirred
into a cup of boiling water; pour it, boiling;
on a cup of sugar and a tablespoonful of
butter. After it cools, add the juice and
rind of one lemon and one beaten egg.
Bake with a upper  and lower crust.
	Keeping Honey.—To keep honey all the
year round, let it run through a fine sieve
to separate from particles of wax; then boil
t gently in an earthen vessel, skim off
the foam which gathers on the top, and
cool it in jars. After covering tightly set
them away in a cool cellar.
	Dr. S. S. Blookgett, ot Ogdenburgh, N.
Y., writing to the "Dental Cosmos," once
condemned the use of fine charcoal as a
tooth powder. He asserts that it is as
sharp as diamond dust, and soon wears off
the enamel. He says: "The great Denti-
frice that should be used at all times, and
under all circumstances, is soap. Its alka-
line properties serve to neutralize the acids
contained in the fluids of the mouth, and its
cleansing properties will correct the breath
and remove offensive odor sooner than any
article I have seen tried."
	Corn Soup.—Eight large ears, cut off the
grains and scrape the cobs. Cover this with
water (not too much) and boil until perfectly
done. Now add two quarts of milk, let it
come to a boil; stir in two tablespoonfuls of
butter rolled in a tablespoonful of flour, let
the whole boil a few minutes; have ready
the yolks of three eggs well beaten; pour the 
soup on them, stirring hard all the time.
Serve immediately after seasoning to taste.
	Plain Cake.—One cup of sugar, one
of cream, one egg, two and one half cups of
flour, one teaspoonful of soda, a little salt.
Any spice you like.
	Sugar Bread.—Three pounds of sugar,
one and one half of butter, six pounds of
flour, eight eggs, one ounce and three
coppers' weight of baking powder, and one
pint of sour milk. Mix not too stiff, and
bake in a moderate heat.
	Measure Cake.—Six cups of sifted
flour, four of powdered sugar, one cup of
sour cream, one cup of butter and five eggs.
Cream half the flour with the butter, the
other half sift into the eggs and sugar after
they have been well beaten together. Mix
well, and just before baking add the cream,
with one teaspoonful of soda and the juice
of one lemon. Bake quickly.


A FELLOW having been "sworn to the truth"
of a statement he had made, afterwards
confessed that the major part of it was false.
"Did you swear to the truth of it?" he was 
asked. "Yes," he replied, "but I did not
swear to the falsehood of it, and part of it 
was truth."


Scientific Pun. — A gentleman was 
showing a friend a balloon of ox bladder in-
flated with oxygen. "But," observed the 
friend, "if the oxygen should escape, how
can you get it into the bladder again?"
"That is not the difficulty," quoth a by-
stander, "it is not how to get the oxygen
into the bladder again, but how to get the
bladder into the ox again!"


ALMOND custards are thus made: Blanched
sweet almonds, four ounces; beat them to a
smooth paste in a mortar, and add it to one
pint of thick cream, with the yolks of four
eggs, two or three spoonfuls of rose water,
and two drops each of essential oil of al-
monds and essence of lemon. Stir the whole
over a slow fire, until of a proper consis-
tence, then pour it into cups. Some use
milk instead of cream, and two eggs in
addition to the above.


TEN parts of tin, combined with one hun-
dred of copper, form bronze, is the usual
composition for statues. Common bell-
mettle is composed of three parts of copper
and one of tin. For very small bells, a
small portion of zinc improves the tone.
Speculum metal for telescopes is composed
of equal parts of tin and copper.  It is very
white, very hard and close in grain, and
eceives an exquisite polish.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street, 
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to 
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.


SPLINTERS.

	It is estimated that there are 125,000 wo-
men in New York City who earn their living.
.....The weekly wages of female teachers in
Maine is said to be but $3:50. How do
they live?..........There were one hundred
and forty-two babies born in San Francisco
on the 2nd inst..........The "Tulare Times"
describes a wild man seen in the range of
the Sierras, as of being of gigantic stature,
a white man who goes entirely without
clothes and is covered all over with long
black hair. The Indians think it is the
devil or ghost of some wicked dead man......
A little girl in St. Louis lately obtained
access to a bottle of corrosive sublimate
which she drank and died......A Missouri
colored man, named Messenger, being in-
toxicated, a few evenings ago, shot another
colored man, killing him instantly......The
colored people of Ohio want more extensive
political recognition, and are considering
how best to secure it.....Kildare, Ireland,
has had a little disturbance from English
rifles......Mr. Allsop, the son of the cele-
brated brewer, has made a successful run
for the Parliamentary seat for East Stafford-
shire, England......The Count de Chambord 
says France is weary of agitation, and would
be saved and rise from her ruins stronger
and greater than ever, if the real conditions
of safety were rightly understood......The 
Soliders' Orphans Home, of York State, has
a semi-annual appropriation of $2,500......
The hog cholera has made some farmers in
Springfield, Illinois, poorer by several hun-
dred dollars in a few days time this season.
......An English newspaper, established in
1723, recently celebrated its 150th birth-day
by republishing a fac-simile of its first issue.
......The late rain storms in Pioche have
caused much interruption to travel and ren-
der important repairs constantly necessary.
..........A late sensational snake story is of a
reptile 4 inches long, of a greenish color,
which was found in an egg at South Bend.
......An innocent father in Milwaukee, Wis-
consin, carries love notes to and from a clerk
in his office for his daughter, whose com-
pany has been forbidden to the young man;
the funniest part of the joke being that the
father knows nothing of the correspondence,
while the news papers have found it out......
Four miners were occupying a cabin in
Pioche, which was struck by lightning; one
of the men was lamed in both legs; another
had one leg paralized and was struck deaf.
......An Alabama man captured and caged
an owl which its mate came nightly to feed
until it was also captured..A little boy in one
of the Southern settlements was chasing a
rabbit when it entered a hole in the earth,
into which the boy thrust his arm and
brought out a large rattle snake......Prince
Napoleon has been in Corsica and has taken
part in the deliberations of the Council
General of Ajacio......William M. Meredith,
one of Pennsylvania's most eminent lawyers,
recently died aged seventy-seven years......
Clemont County, Ohio, has a man living
who is one hundred and ten years old,
named Elijah Newton......The constables
lately got after Rev. W. H. H. Murray in
the Adirondacks, for killing deer, contrary
to the game laws of the State of New York.
.......A residence in the neighborhood of
Sandfordville was lately robbed and two
Poughkeepsie editors, who had gone there
for a breath of fresh air, were put under
surveillance as burglars......A druggist who
served in the army of Napoleon I, named
Elias Durand, recently died in Philadelphia.
......New York imported 142,877 barrels of
pork, 145,465,447 pounds of lard, 275,306,-
308 pounds of ham, between the 1st of
November, 1872, and the 15th of August,
1873......Virginia exhibits considerable ex-
citement over her "Black Man[-]s Party,"
who are trying hard to over-rule the whites."
A train on an Ohio railroad recently ran
over a farmer's wagon which contained
himself, his wife and two daughters; the
children were killed on the spot and the
mother died from the injuries received......
Terrible storms and lightning are prevalent
this year......A wet winter is predicted by
California conjurers........The Mason and
Hamblin organs got the "First Medal" at
the Vienna Exposition..........The "Daily
Graphic" suggests that "Judges sent to Utah
should first pass a competitive examination
in morals" preferring one who denounces
polygamy but practices bigamy.........The
Grand Central Hotel, in Omaha, is now
called the Pullman House in honor of Mr.
G. M. Pullman, of Palace car fame......
Twelve men were killed in Lincoln mine,
Sutler Creek, California on the 5th inst........
Portland is excited about the increase of
small-pox......Pioche is not as safe as it was
for villains since the late trials and convic-
tion of some of them......The dining table
of the Emperor of Russia is so arranged
that at the touch of a signal like the rubbing
of Aladdin's lamp, down goes the table
through the floor and a new table, loaded
with fresh dishes and viands, rises in its
place......It is estimated that the extent of
new railways built in this country in 1873
will be more than forty per cent. less than
for 1872......A national convention of the
different Italian societies assembled at St.
Louis, Missouri, Aug. 27th......The women
in Ohio want to vote on the new Constitu-
tion........Miss H. Chamberlain has been
elected Principal of the Newark (Del.)
Academy in the place of Prof. Porter who
resigned......A woman lately won her first
case as a lawyer in Chicago.


TO THE LADIES.

	The Thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms have
been secured again this season for the forth-
coming fair. The following notice should be
carefully observed by all whom it may concern:
	TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES.—"Ladies"––The
Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing Society
in last Spring's circular, invited your honorable
Societies to the forthcoming Fair, which will
be held on the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th
days of October next.
	It is desirable that this the eleventh exhibi-
tion should be a true exposition of the indus-
tries of Utah, and for this purpose it has been
deemed proper by the Board of Directors that
the Relief Societies should be again called upon
to respond as far as their circumstances will
permit.
	The Board express their gratitude for the
interest taken heretofore and hope that the
Exhibition of ’73 will witness a crowning effort
in the contributions of the Relief Societies.
	By order of the board of directors.
		ROBERT. L. CAMPBELL, Secretary.


USEFUL STUDY

	It is a pleasing feature in the course of events
that those studies which have long been 
thought of most importance in the education of 
girls, are beginnig to be viewed more exten-
sively in their true light. That is, that al-
though beautiful as ornamental accomplish-
ments, they are not the most essential to life
and happiness. Young women have expended
unmeasured time and means in acquiring fam-
iliarity with arts and sciences suited only to
the embellishment of life without understanding
any principle connected with the subject upon
which depends the exercise and enjoyment of
all else they learn. They have pursued all
other branches of knowledge, giving the least,
if any attention to the laws of health and the
years in learning to sing, neglecting to give one
hour's study to those wonderful instruments,
the ear and lungs.
	There is no other subject upon which, com-
paratively speaking, people are so generally
ignorant as that one which is of greatest im-
portance to their temporal well-being. Yet,
once interested in the study of physiology,
there is none other more charming and elevat-
ing in its nature than this when rightly
pursued.
	The strangely complicated machinery of 
which the human body is composed, with its
intricate and perfect working, is far more
curious than anything the ingenuity of man
could invent; or even comprehend. Yet,
throught the providence of an All-wise Creator,
and by cultivation, enough understanding and
intelligence may be obtained, concerning this
most marvelous piece of workmanship, to in-
sure safety to its various members in passing
through the ordinary vicissitudes of life. And is
there not infinitely more wisdom in procuring
a knowledge of those divine laws by which life
may not only be prolonged, but the enjoyment
of it, and its usefulness increased, than in 
studying ought else to their neglect?
	It is often through ignorance of these laws
that diseases are entailed which prove incura-
ble and terminate fatally or make miserable
and comparatively useless life which might
have been joyous and eminently valuable.
Knowledge which may serve to prevent such
mistakes, cannot be looked upon as superficial
to improfessional readers. It is much cheaper
and safer to take measures of preserving
health, than to trust to means of redeeming it
when lost. But unless it is known what will
and what will not be injurious to the system,
how is a sure course to be adopted to prevent
mistakes in life which may peril and injure
the delicate and wonderful human structure?
The means for obtaining an understanding of
self, of the errors to be avoided, and laws of
life to be observed, so as to prevent disease, to
remove or retain health and vigor, are more
numerous than formerly and more within the
reach of the people! We consider that the
acquiring of such knowledge should be made a
principal feature in our common and high
schools; and would recommend all, so far as
possible, to acquire a correct understanding of 
the organization, laws and needs of their being.
And to seek for the power of self-control that 
they may make use of this understanding for
their best good.
	Considering the great importance of this sub-
ject, especially to women, we thus earnestly
seek to impress it upon their attention; fully 
believing that, in a general sense, there is no
one study so inestimably useful and requisite
to all persons, young and old, of both sexes, as 
that of self.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


POLYGAMY.

	Writing upon this subject, Mrs. Dumway, 
edeitor of the "New North West," hopes to
hear from us "when Mrs. 2nd comes along."
She also ventures that we "will then desire an
interview with Judge McKean."
   We presume the lady is very sincere in her
manner of viewing things. But sincerity in
belief is no proof of correctness.
	If we were wanting to be divorced, we would
be likely to appeal to some one who could
accomplish the matter in a more satisfactory
way, and with less noise than our judges are
in the habit of doing; thinking the instructions
of ancient Paul still worthy of consideration,
in which he says to the Corinthians: "Dare
any of you having a matter against another,
go to law before the unjust, and not before the
saints?"
	Mrs. D. makes farther suggestions, which we
take in good part, as they were intended, and 
will endeavor to meet fairly and honestly. 
She says: 
   "We are not of those who rank the polygamic
women of Utah with adulterers. From their
stand-point they are remarkably virtuous, yet
our short stay of one week among them, while
it endeared us to many for their noble heroism
and genuine hospitality and goodness of heart,
revealed to us in individual cases such poig-
nancy of grief, especially among first wives,
whose husbands had found other loves and
founded other families, as we hope never again
to meet anywhere.  As we write there rises up
before our mental vision the pale image of one
of these victims of the lusts of men, miscalled
religion, whose earnest appeal through us to
her relatives in Portland, for means to get
"anywhere out of Utah," that she might be
able to get her daughters away from the blight 
of polygamy, haunts us yet. Our Utah friend
is a very valuable 'Exponent' of the equal
political rights of women.  Will she be kind
enough to tell why, if polygamy is right for
men, that it is a one-sided institution? Why
is it not as necessary for wives to have more 
than one husband, as for husbands to have 
more than one wife?"
   If "individual cases" may be taken as a stand-
ard by which a people and their principles are
to be judged, it is but necessary to glance
at the news columns of a daily paper to find
sufficient evidence to condemn the world with
no exceptions.
	Are those sympathies which are so accute
when awakened in behalf of polygamic wives,
less alive to the griefs of such women as Kate
Stoddard, Mrs. James Fisk, Mrs. Critteuden 
and thousands of others, the records of whose
wrongs without redress are daily published to
the world, while yet not a fourth is told?
	We wonder if  one pale victim's relatives 
in Portland were ever searched out, and if they
sent her means to get herself and daughters out
of Utah with. We hope they did; for that, 
indeed, would look like sympathy with som-
substance to it.
	Now we are requested to tell why if polgamy
is right for man, it is not right for woman in
the same way.
	Without consulting Christian views in the
least, a little sound reflection upon the laws of 
nature, should be a sufficient reply to such a
question. But taken into a religous considera-
tion, we may answer by asking, when Laban
gave Jacob his second daughter, Rachel, why
did he not furnish Leah with another husband?
We take Mrs. Duniway to be a Christian, and
suppose she believes and understand her Bible.
	We regret that our limited space will not
permit of farther expression now, but we may
refer to the subject again.


IN France there are in use half a million
donkeys, and in Italy 400,000. These hardy
little beasts do all the hardest of the work.


THE BETTER WAY.

	The way in which many "woman suffragists"
bandy the never ceasing and still unanswerable
question of "woman's rights" by depicting
woman's universal wrongs in such a light as
even to seriously prevent the obtaining of her
undisputed natural rights is simply absurd
and ridiculous. Often it is seemingly made to
appear that all women are subjected to tyranny
and degradation because some of them are not
allowed to advance as far and  fast as they
would, and might do, if all viewed their cause
correctly. And from the evidence of some
writers and speakers it would seem that because
foolish and wicked men are to be found, all men
are, in their estimation, fools or rascals.
	Why should the vindicating of so just, and
reasonable an object as universal suffrage for
women be carried to such extremes by its over-
zealous and impatient friends as to disgust men
of sense and make women of refined natures
almost ashamed to vote when lawfully privi-
leged to do so?
	Would it not be wisdom to be more just,
moderate and discriminating in advocating
the rights of woman, when her interests are so
closely enwoven with those of man that they
cannot be separated; while seeking to assume
rights not yet granted to make better use of
those already in their possession? Thus prov-
ing that they not only want their rights but are
as able to appreciate and use them wisely as
are the stronger sex.


﻿			HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Sabbath Schools of Cache county are
preparing to have a grand jubilee at Logan
City.
	The Foundation is being laid for a fine illu-
minated clock, which is to grace the corner of
the Eagle Emporium.
	Madam De Barry has been entertaining
some of the lovers of music in this city with a
charming performance on the piano. Her
musical abilities are said to be excellent.
	A company of young men in the 6th Ward,
have formed themselves into a Mutual Improv-
ment association. It will be well if their
example is followed by many others; and if
rightly conducted, much general good will be
the result.
	On Monday evening, the 1st inst., the Sab-
bath Schools in this county were well repre-
sented at the monthly Convention. The
subject which received most attention was
that of the forth coming Mammoth Concert, the
exact time of which is not yet decided.
	The late visits and missionary labors of
President Brigham Young and party, through
the settlements of Bear Lake and Cache val-
leys, have been of a cheering and refreshing
nature to all concerned. The company returned
to this city on the 6th inst., according to ex-
pectations; all in good health and spirits.
	Work on the Utah Northern Rail Road is
being pushed ahead by the enterprising men of
Cache valley. Excellent grain crops have been
raised in that county this season. But the
people say the greatest difficulty is that there
is no "cash" in "Cache," and they find it rather
embarrassing at times, to have cash accounts to
settle.
	The Salt Lake Theatre has been undergoing
some material changes of late,, under the direc-
tions of its new proprietors, Messrs. H. B.
Clawson, John T. Caine, Joseph A. Young,
Thomas Williams and Le Grande Young,
who purchased it a short time ago, of President
Brigham Young. Many improvements are
being made in the interior of the house, which
is designed to open October 1st.
	There is considerable novelty in sitting
opposite some "strangers" on the cars, and
hearing them talk of what they have seen
during their short stay in Utah. A lady of this
city happened to be thus entertained while
traveling between Brigham City and Ogden a
few days since. It was a well known gentle-
man of Brigham City, who was being described
and the lady viewed the description as a very
flattering one. The stranger who had visited him
declared him to be fifty years old, and the halest,
heartiest man of that age, he had ever known;
adding very suggestively that he was the hus-
band of three wives and the father of twenty-two
children, the youngest of which was ten months
old and his seventeenth boy. The children
were as fine, rosy and nice as he had ever seen
—and it was repeated—the "Colonel" was such
a jolly old soul, as robust and well as any in 
the country.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow and the editor of the
EXPONENT visited Cache valley last week, and
met with the Relief Societies of several of the
principal towns; the object of the visit
being to circulate particular information con-
cerning the two classes being organized in this
city, for the purpose of preparing women phy-
sicians. They were kindly welcomed by
hospitable friends wherever they visited, and
large congregations assembled to listen to the
instructions given; which were varied and
interesting. Miss Snow was warmly congratu-
lated on having so successfully performed her
tour on the Continent and through the Holy
Land, of which she conversed with much ease
and satisfaction. The only inconvenience which
threatened the ladies, during a week's absence
from home, was an appearance of their being
obliged to "ride on a rail" from Brigham
Junction to Coriune. And even this chance for
an adventure was over-ruled by the timely
interference of Mr. Oliver Snow, who appeared
on the scene with horses and carriage. Miss
Snow admits that although very polite and
gentlemanly railroad men are to be found else-
where, those of Utah, surpass all others with
whom she has met. On the evening of the 9th
inst., she and her companion greatly enjoyed
a rich treat of very sweet singing from the
Wellsville choir, by whom they were seren-
aded.


UNHAPPY HUSBAND.

	Perhaps it is your own fault. Too many
men take all the love their wives can
give them as a matter of course, never
thinking to return it till the wife gets tired
of looking for it and ceases to bestow affec-
tion. Court your wife, just as you did in
your wooing. It won't hurt you, and de-
pend upon it, you can win her back in no
other way :– We have known husbands to
never once bestow a word or look of love
for years, and when at last their disap-
pointed wives are caught gaily laughing and
chatting with other company in the very
vein of humor which first enchained these
exacting lords, they have become as cross
and repellant as hornet-stung bears. Don't
be such a noodle, we beg. Women are not
angels, and they can't always endure every-
thing. A man is foolish who expects to
retain the warm, girlish affections of his
wife by indifference when he gained them
only by most attentive wooing. We repeat,
court her. Let her see that you care for
her, that her comfort is essential to your
enjoyment, and if she don't forgive and love
and bless you we know nothing about
women, that's all.—"New North West."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
			MY TREASURES.

	My Mountain Home, dear, honored place,
	  My heart doth fondly love thee;
	I love the light of nature's face
	  Dispensed around, above me.

	The snow hills sunk to murmuring floods,
	  The grave, surrounding towers,
	A floating field of gorgeous clouds,
	  And slopes of waving flowers.

	Ye all have notes that reach my ear,
	   With soft, mellifluous wooing.
	But through my spirit's silent sphere
	  Is music deeper flowing.

	Eternal truth has waked my soul,
	  And chants with sacred pleasure,
	Though nature's charms rare gifts unroll,
	  Faith is my holiest treasure.
									KENT.


AN ADDRESS.
		By Miss Eliza R. Snow.
Delivered in the Tabernacle. Ogden, at a Relief
	Society meeting, Thursday afternoon, August
	14th, 1873.
		Reported by James Taylor.
	[As the first part of the address is of a
descriptive nature, in which the speaker
delineates the course of travel pursued by
President George A. Smith and party, the
lately returned tourists, and as the readers
of the Exponent have been favored with
much the same details through Miss Snow's
letters, we merely make a few extracts, giv-
ing the latter portion of the address in full.]
—Ed.
		In Lyons, we saw them weave silk
of various descriptions. They weave pho-
tograph likenesses and battle scenes, and
delineate countenances plainly as if they
had been painted.
	In the King's Palace in Munich, I was
shown window curtains made of glass, in
brocade and beautiful colors. Without feel-
ing of them, I should not have thought but
that they were silk, but they were glass.
		I visited many churches and cathe-
drals; I visited mosques (a mosque is a 
Mahamedan place of worship;) saw all I
could under the governments where we
traveled. And the more I saw, the more I
felt the necessity of the Lord! having a
government on the earth for the sake of the
people, and thought how well off the Saints
in Zion were; and what blessings they en-
joyed. Blessings and privileges above those
of all the nations of the earth. And, we my
sisters, we have the privilege of being
organized according to the pattern which
God has given for the females in the Church
of Jesus Christ. We are privileged above
all other woman kind on the face of the
earth. I thought when I was abroad, I
thought before I went, and I have thought
much since I returned, how necessary for
the Saints of the living God to be more of a
distinct people than what they are, to be
the Saints of God in very deed––and to be
as different from the rest of the world as
our privileges are more exalted—we should
be a shining light to  the nations of the earth.
But I often say to myself, are we what we
should be?
	I was talking with President Young about
how we were received abroad. He said
that the Saints were growing in influence;
and that if they lived up to their privileges,
their influence would be far greater than
it is now. I told him that I believed that
if we were as distinct a people as the Lord
wanted us to be our influence would be far
greater. He said it would. But instead of
that, are we not trying to gain influence by
assimilating to the habits and customs, and
the spirit of the world?
[new column]
	Now I do not know that this would apply
to my sisters in ogden, for they are a live
people. Their works exhibit that. And 
their reputation bespeaks them to be awake
to their duties. But still we are never to
come to a stand point. We are to be pro-
gressing and growing better. If we have
done well to-day, we must do still better to-
morrow. We believe in eternal pro-
gressing, and growing better. If we have
done well to-day, we must do still better to-
morrow. We believe in eternal progression.
It will not do to say that we have so much
to do that we cannot do any more, because
the works and duties for women in Zion are
constantly increasing. No where on the
earth has woman so broad a sphere of labor
and duty, of responsibility and action, as in
Utah.
	I tried in many instances to make
people believe that women in Utah had
more freedom than women had any where
else on the earth. But they thought that
they knew better than I did. I told them 
how long I had lived with the people, and
that I ought to know better than strangers.
	To be sure we have trials, but what are
they? I want to ask my sisters now a seri-
ous question. When you are filled with the
Spirit of God, and the Holy Ghost rests upon
you—that comforter which Jesus promised
and which takes of the things of God and
gives them to us, and shows us things
to come, and brings all things to our re-
membrance—when you are filled with this
spirit, do you have any trials? I do not
think you do. For that satisfies and fills
up every longing of the human heart, and
fills up every vacuum. When I am filled 
with that spirit, my soul is satisfied; and I
can say in good earnest, that the trifling
things of the day do not seem to stand in
my way at all. But just let me loose my
hold of that spirit and power of the
Gospel, and partake of the spirit of the
world, in the slightest degree, and trouble
comes; there is something wrong. I am
tried; and what will comfort me? You can-
not impart comfort to me that will satisfy
the Immortal mind, but that which comes
from the fountain above. And is it not our
privilege to so live that we can have this
constantly flowing into our souls? To be
sure we have many of the crosses of life,
but what do we meet them for? Are they
for our own good and benefit or do we meet
them all as for Zion's sake? Do we let Zion
take full possession of our desires, our am-
bition?
	Now my sisters, though I took that tour to
Europe and Asia, would I have gone to
gratify my own personal selfishness? I felt
that it was right for me to go. My sisters
sent me. I went believing that good would
result from my going. And I have had
that belief all the time. I never once
regretted starting. I told President Smith
that I did not think that anything could
occur to make me regret that I went. I
try never to allow myself to do anything for
a selfish gratification. Still we are all frail
and weak mortals of the earth, earthy:
But that comforter, which is a legacy that
belongs to every Saint of God, and to
every one who has been baptized for the
remission of sins, will lift our desires to a
nobler aim, and we forget all about self.
We have self all absorbed in the interests of
the work of God. We are here to perform
duties, and to do our part towards establish-
ing God's Kingdom. We, my sisters, have
as much to do as our brethren have. We are
to work in union with them. Every woman
who fills her position as a wife, honorably,
stands as a counselor to her husband. Not
a dictator, a counselor. And what a life it
is to live my sisters! What a noble life,
to live, so as to fill this position, in which
we are blessed, and are honorable as women
of God.
	Paul the Apostle anciently spoke of holy
women. It is the duty of each one of us to
be a holy woman. We shall have elevated
aims, if we are holy women. We shall feel
that we are called to perform important
duties. No one is exempt from them.
There is no sister so isolated, and her
sphere so narrow but what she can do a
great deal towards establishing the King-
dom of God upon the earth.	I am proud to see so many young ladies
associated with the Relief Society in Ogden.
There should be an association in every
settlement, and in every Ward in Salt Lake
City. And wherever there is a Relief
Society, the girls and young ladies should
have as much to do as other women already
in the Retrenchment Association. You
need not be startled at the words Retrenchment
Association. If you associate together,
your minds are improved, you are gaining
intelligence, and you are retrenching from
ignorance. The Spirit of God will impart
instruction to your minds, and you will
impart it to each other. I say, God bless
you my young sisters. Remember that you
are Saints of God; and that you have im-
portant works to perform in Zion.
	How is it with a great many of our young
people? The are baptized when they are
eight years old, and have hands laid upon 
them for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Do
they know what the Holy Ghost is? Do
they ever minister in the Holy Ghost?
Have they ever had the gifts of the Gospel?
Look around you and think how many there
are, children of the Latter-day Saints, who
know no more of the Gospel of Jesus Christ
than the heathens do. Why? because they
have had nothing to do with it. Their
fathers and mothers are good Saints. But
they are children of Zion. They can go
their own way, and do as they list. They
can be full of the spirit of the gentiles, and
be so blind that they cannot see the differ-
ence between the profession of a gentile and
the sincerity of the Saints. They have no
light in them. Why is it? Was it so at
the beginning of this Church? No it was
not. I can bear testimony that in the
beginning of the Church, children and young
people had the gifts of the Gospel, and prayed
and sang. They talked as much as old
people. They knew what the Spirit of God
was. There was no need of cautioning
them about the spirit of the world. They
had that monitor within them, the Holy
Ghost which showed them things in their
true light. I should like to see the effects
of it now in our young people. There is
some cause why it is not so. And I think
it would amount to quite as much, and a
little more, to have attention paid to these
things in such a manner that it would save
the children that are born in Zion, than it
would to go to the trouble of raising money,
and bringing the Saints from the nations of
the earth. Why are there not some steps
taken to save the youth?
	Now, in Salt Lake City President Young,
counseled Sister Horne and myself, and
Sister Smoot to organize the Young girls.
He wanted his young girls organized first.
He dictated who should be president, and
she to choose her Counselors, and start out
right. But how did it work? There was
cold water thrown on the efforts made. It
was turned to ridicule by many. They said
"what is the use of the girls meeting to-
gether, and praying, and talking?" And I
would ask what is the use of our brethren
meeting together? If the young girls and
the boys do not need the Spirit of the Gos-
pel, there does not any person need it.


But, I think the state of society in Salt Lake
City does  need it. You may talk to the
young about the follies of the world and the
unholy influences of the gentiles till dooms
day, and it will make no impression. But,
you place them in a position where they
will get the Holy Ghost, and that will be a
sure protection against outside influences.
Some will say, “our-boys, are sent out on
missions and then they get the Spirit of
God." Some of the boys are sent on mis-
sions, and it is necessary to keep them out,
that they may retain the Spirit of God, if
there is not enough of it at home. Some
of our young men who are sent out on
missions are obliged to seek to God but
when they come home they are laughed out
of it, and perhaps fall into the practices
of those who are here! It is not so with all
of them to be sure.
	In referring again to the organization of
the young ladies, I may say we have aposta-
tized in Salt Lake City, but there are so
many left as to show what that organiza-
tion would have been if carried out as
President Young desired it to be. We have
organizations of young ladiea in Salt Lake
City, who do not need anybody to tell them
about the influences and fashions of the 
world. They have just as much distaste for
them as the older folks have....I do think
to-day that if that counsel had been carried
out among the young girls, and boys, and
they had been organized and got the Spirit
of God, that our society would have shown
a very different character from what it does.
Some of the mothers and fathers, who spoke
lightly of it, now see the necessity of it,
to their sorrow.
	"Well, but now, Sister Eliza, are you not
scolding folks?" I have to talk so loud, as I 
want you all to hear, and it may seem like
scolding.
	There are a great many good things that
I could talk about, but I want to talk about
things that will produce effects, and effects
of salvation. It does not do to fool away
our time, thinking that all is well. It is
necessary for us to be laying that founda-
tion, which will secure the salvation of the
young, as well as of the old, and not leave
it to the exigencies of time, nor to the
chances of circumstances, but each one of us
see to it ourselves, and cultivate those
principles that will tend to salvation.
	Now, I am thankful that these my young
sisters meet together. You will be blest.
Sister Richards will be blest for promoting
these organizations. I understand you are
in connection with the Relief Society. It
makes no difference. But I want to say
one or two things, that I wish you to
remember. It is not only necessary for you
to meet together, you should talk to each
other, and talk of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
You can talk of your every-day concerns,
but accustom yourselves to talking to each
other on the principles of the Gospel. It
will lay a foundation for your being emi-
nently useful hereafter. That is what you
are born for. You might as well have been
born in some other nation or dispensation
unless you can feel that you have a mission
in Zion. Study the principles of the Gospel,
converse on them, understand them, so that
you may be able to cope with any of the
wisest of the world. They are coming
here. They often ask questions of the
young, when they would not interrogate
the older ones. You want to understand
that you are living to be Saints, and never
be ashamed to acknowledge yourselves to
be Latter-day Saints. It is not enough that
you are born in Zion. It is true that the
Prophets said it should be an honor to be
born in Zion; but it is a dishonor not to live
up to the blessings of the Gospel to which
you are heirs.
	I see the Relief Society here has no house
of its own-no house that it can control. I
know the sisters are accomodated. But
each Society needs a house at its own dis-
posal. And if the sisters in Ogden, with 
the sanction of the brethren, undertake to
build a house, the brethren will help them.
It is said that God helps those who help
themselves, land the brethern are so god-
like that they will help you. Bishop Wooley
ley is now stepping forward to have such a
house built in the 13th Ward, in Salt Lake
City.
	There is another thing I want to mention
before I sit down. President Young is
requiring the sisters to get students of
Medicine. He wants a good many to get a
clasical education; and then get a degree
for Medicine. So far as getting the degree
is concerned, there would be no advantage,
but in connection with the degree, the
female practitioner stands on the same
grounds a man does. Are there here, now,
any sisters who have ambition enough, and
who realize the necessity of it, for Zion's
sake, to take up this study. There are
some who are naturally inclined to be
nurses; and such ones would do well to 
study Medicine, if they are inclined to do
so. If they cannot meet their own ex-
penses, we have means of doing so. It is
proposed that the sisters, instead of expend-
ing means to emigrate foreign Saints, spend
that means in educating young women.
Those who go through this course should be
young women. We have, in Salt Lake
City, a Mrs. Barker, who proposes to teach.
But there are many branches you need to 
study before going to the expense of being
boarded abroad to study. You need to study
Physiology, Anatomy, and other kindred
branches. 
	Then, another class of women is wanted
more advanced  in age, who are natural
nurses, and would be willing to study ob-
stetrics; this lady is going to give a series
of lectures for their benefit. If some who
have natural inclinations for nursing would
come and attend these lectures, that would
be fulfilling the requirements, so far. We
are waiting to get up as large a class as we
can. There are some eight or twelve now.
President Young said that he wanted one,
at least, from every settlement. Of course, 
so large a city as Ogden, should furnish
quite a number; so that we can have our
own practitioners, instead of having gentle-
men practitioners. In ancient times we
know that women officiated in this depart-
ment, and why should it not be so now?
The difficulty is in getting the sisters to feel
like undertaking it.
	Now if there are any who will attend
through all of these classes, their expenses
will be met if they are not able to meet
them. Several Ogden women should attend
this course  lectures, and confine themselves
to that particular department.
	We have to get up these classes and 
attend toall these things. Don't you see
that our sphere is increasing? Our sphere
of action will continually widen, and no
woman in Zion need to mourn because her
sphere is too narrow.
	God bless you, my sisters, and encourage
you, that you may be filled with light, and
realize that you have no interests but in the
welfare of Zion. Let your first business be
to perform your duties at home. But inas-
much as you are wise stewards, you will
find time for social duties, because these are
incumbent upon us as daughtes and mothers
in Zion. By seeking to perform every duty
you will find that your capacity will increase,
and you will be astonished at what you can
accomplish. You have been astonished
at what duties you have done. The Lord 
help us. The Lord is with His Saints and 
helps them to do His will and He watches
over them by night and by day. Inasmuch
as we continue faithful, we shall be those
that will be crowned in the presence of God
and the lamb. You, my sisters, if you are
faithful will become Queens of Queens,
and Priestesses unto the Most High God.
These are your callings. We have only to
discharge our duties. By and by our labors
will be past, and our names will be crowned
with everlasting honor, and be had in ever-
lasting remembrance among the Saints of
the Most High God.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHO'S AHEAD

	A gentleman asks the girls the following
questions: “Could you love a man who wore
false hair when he had enough of his own?
Who painted his face and improved his form
as you improve (?) yours? Who pinched
his feet with small shoes, hands with small
gloves, waist with corsets; and then, as if
he had not already deformed himself
enough, tied a huge bustle to his back and
thrust tiny mountains of wire into his
bosom?" In reply to which, a lady re-
sponds: "Could you love a girl who defiled
her mouth with tobacco, and loaded the air
with fumes of cigars? Who staggered home
several times a week the worse for liquor?
Who indulged in fast horses, bet high at
races, and swaggered round the streets with
questionable companions? Which picture
wears the most alluring colors? — "Woman's
Journal."


GEORGE ELLIOT.
	Mrs. George H. Lewes (better known as
George Elliot), formerly Miss Evans, author
of "Adam Bede,' "Middlemarch," and
several other novels, was the daughter of a
poor clergyman, but in early life was adop-
ted by a wealthy gentleman, who gave her
the best education that England could afford.
When she left school, which happened when
she was still very young, Hubert Spencer
became her tutor and friend, and under his
skillful training her mind was developed
rapidly and broadly. He taught her to
think, to reflect, and to reason by scientific
methods. It is said he first advised her to
undertake the writing of works of fiction.
She applied herself to the languages, master-
ing German, French and Italian, and be-
came an accomplished musician, familiariz-
ing herself not only with the fine arts, but
also with metaphysics and logic. While in
this stage she translated, among other
things, Strauss' 'Life of Jesus,' and soon
after became one of the Westminster Review
writers. Here, by her intimacy with John
Stuart Mill and others, she became con-
firmed in their peculiar religious views.
Later on she married Professor Lewes,
under circumstances which are not nuder-
stood, and which are said to have evolved
a great deal of courage on her part. She
and her husband are zealous diciples of
Comte. Mrs. Lewes seldom appears in
society, and resides with her husband in a
retired nook in the north of London, hard
by Regent's Park, in a neighborhood of
pretty semi-suburban villas, her house being
surrounded by a neat garden and tastefully
arranged shrubbery, where the noise and
hum of the street is shut out by a high
wall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the Woman’s Exponent.
	A FAMILY CONVERSATION.

	Husband. Wife, have you read what the
papers say about Miss Smiley of Chicago
making proselytes by preaching? What
do you think women will do next? 
	Wife. Why, go to pleading law, I guess.
	Husband. Well, well! If anything on
earth can disgust me with women, it will
be to see them take the stand and go to
making speeches. I am sorry  it comes in
my day. I love woman in her own sphere.
	Wife. Pray tell me, what is her sphere?
Not to know anything only what her husband
tells her I suppose. I should be sorry to see
any of my girls turn lawyers; but if they
did, they would be true to their clients, and
not be bought and sold as some men are.
	Husband. Just as I expected; you bring
up argument and reason to sustain women
in their wild goose chase after law and phy-
sic and many other absurdities!
	Wife. Well Mr. Brown, you know that
my opportunities have been limited, that I
know but little, and am dependent upon
you for that. I have taken the Apostle
Paul's advice; "Let women learn from their
own husbands at home and be in subjection."
	Husband. Well, Mary, you've acted
wisely by staying at home and attending to
your domestic duties, and letting the out-
side world alone. Women are too pure to
mix up in political strife.
	Wife. Oh! that just reminds me of what
John asked me yesterday. He said, "Mother,
Judge Johnson is in the parlor talking to
father about that suit pending in court.
"What did he say about it?" "He said he
feared they would swindle the widow and
children out of the most of the property.
I could not understand half the judge said."
"Why not my son?" "Because I have never
read law, neither been in a court room, what
do they mean by mittimus and venire?"
"You'll have to ask your father, my son."
"Well mother, I think it is time we were
learning something. Suppose father had
dropped off suddenly like Mr. Grey, and
left his business in the condition it is in,
with those securities hanging over it?"
	Husband. Who ever would have thought
that John, no older than he is, would have
noticed what the Judge was talking about?
I believe I will bring home some law books
and have him go to reading them. Wife.
And Annie too; I don't wish to raise her as
ignorant as I am. We do not know whose
hands she may fall into when we are gone.
	Husband. Oh! Mary, you know I don't
want my daughters contaminated with law
and politics; they have enough to do to
study music and dress. Whenever women
engage in masculine pursuits, it takes away
all other charms.
	Wife. Well, I have found out that
charme will not take a virtuous woman
through the world. Look at your sister
Maud, brought up to know nothing but
to dress and to thump on the piano! She is
a sample of what charms will do towards
rearing a family. She married a man who
has spent all the property her father gave
her, and you went his security for five
thousand dollars. Now he has run away to
get rid of paying his debts and left her
with six little children, broken hearted,
and knows no more about feeling the re-
sponsibilities of wife and mother than our
little Jane.
	Husband. Oh well, you know if women
get good husbands they have no need to
learn anything outside the sphere of women.
	Wife. Why I heard you say last week,
that the heads of the nation were becoming
so corrupt, and dishonorable that they would
be the downfall of the nation; a great num-
ber of men who go to the Senate and House
of Representatives to represent the people
of this once Great Republic, can be bought
and sold for a few thousand dollars. If this
is the case, it is certainly time women were
beginning to study as least the first "Law"
of nature—self-preservation.
							W. E.


FACTS AND FIGURES.
	The total length of railroads in Germany,
at the close of 1859, was 7,949 miles.
	The first trial by jury in California is said
to have taken place, among a party of Mor-
mons at Yerba Buena, 1846.
	Dr. M'Cosh says that there are 20,000
Presbyterian congregations in the world,
embracing a population of 34,000,000.
	Iron boiler tubes in a steamship rust out
very fast when the vessel is laid by, they
endure five times longer when in constant
use.
	The large iron pipes employed in the
Glasgow (Scotland) Water-works were orig-
inally, four feet in diameter, 1 [-] of an inch
thick, and sustained a pressure from about
300 feet of head.
	A Major Colborne backs himself for £100
to walk fifteen miles in three hours on the
Maidstone road, England. He is to carry a
brick weighing six and a half pounds in
each hand, so as to touch his sides.
	Christopher Shearer, a fruit famer near
Reading, Pennsylvania, has probably the
largest refrigerator in the country. It is
fifty-five feet square, and holds, when filled,
about one hundred and forty cartloads of ice
and four thousand bushels of fruit.
	The Ipswich (England) "Journal" states
that on the 12th of May, at Lowestoft, Lady
Smith, aged 100 years, gave a dinner to 107
old people, whose united ages amounted to
8,228 years, or about an average of seventy-
seven to each.
	One-fourth of a share in a London water
company was lately sold for £16,000. The
face value of an entire share is only £1! It
is one of the wealthiest corporations in the
world, but its projector lost his fortune and 
died in the workouse. Its name is the
New River Company.


﻿TAYLOR & CUTLER
Are offering Special Inducements in Prices of
		LADIES' FALL DRESS GOODS
	For the Conference Trade. Store west side East
Temple street.
BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	Books in all branches of Literature and
Education will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand.
LADIES, YOU ARE INVITED TO CALL
	At Mrs. Wilkinson's LADIES' BAZAR for fash-
ionable Fall Millinery and Fancy Dry Goods and
Notions. New and stylish goods continually arriv-
ing.
	First South street, west of Z.C.M.I.
GRAND CHEAP SALES FOR THIRTY DAYS
			NOW GOING ON.
		500 Pairs Blankets,
		300 Soldiers' Overcoats, Cavalry,
	     1,000 Soldiers' Dress Coats, $3.00 each,
		500 Pairs Government Shoes, $1.25 per pair,
		900 Umbrellas, "great variety,"
	 $10,000 worth of Hats,
		  50 Dozen Pairs California Shoes,
	     1,000 yards Home-made Linsey,
		300 Dozen Winter Gloves, variety,
		100 Dozen Home-made Socks,
	I Defy the trade to compete with me in prices of
Jewelry.
	I will positively sell at prices to suit customers, Rich
or Poor, for thirty days.			H.E. PHELPS,
	s15							29 Main Street.
[new column]
MARY H. BAKER M.D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a m. to 3 p m.
MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50
CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
nd there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the TELEGRAPH WASHING MACHINE. which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P.O. Box 474, Salt Lake City."
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.
			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	- 	- 	- 	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	- 	- 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed. selling
	price $4	-	-	-	-	-	 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.	
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
