VOL. 2.  		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1874.		 NO. 15.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE PREVAILING fashion for dressing
ladies' hair in New York, is a wide braid
extending from the top of the head to the
nape of the neck. Though seeming odd at
first, this is better than the great roll on top
of the head, or the idiotic fashion of crimps
or curls reaching almost to the eyes.
	THE WOMEN of Massachusetts are in ear-
nest about Suffrage, and don't mean to fail
in their object if industry, perseverance and
determination can accomplish anything.
They will present a petition to the Legisla-
ture of the State asking for amendments
to the State Constitution, so as to abolish all
political distinctions on account of sex. We
heartily wish them the success which their
ambition merits.
	Guelma Penn, sister of Susan B. Anthony,
recently died, after a lingering illness, in
Rochester, New York. She was one of the
fifteen women who exercised their right of
suffrage in Rochester last year. During her
long sickness, she was almost constantly at-
tended and watched over with unceasing
devotion by her sister. Let people who be-
lieve that great pursuits and noble aims,
necessarily deaden the finer senses, or cause
the gentle, affectionate nature of woman to
become coarser and more austere, notice
this incident in the life of Miss Anthony.
	INDIAN AGENT Ingalls, it is reported,
has made himself conspicuous through hav-
ing swindled the settlers in Southern Utah
and Nevada out of all the grain and goods
he could induce them to sell him, by fair
promises to pay in 90 days. He "settled"
with the farmers by giving them checks on
the First National Bank of Salt Lake, which,
when presented, were rejected, it being as-
certained that he had nothing to his credit
in the bank. The poor Aborigines will like-
ly be some time yet in learning to be strict-
ly honest, with such specimens of civiliza-
tion for their instructors.
	IN OUR last issue, under the title of "Pro-
gress of a Year," we published a brief re-
port of the efforts which have been made in
behalf of woman in this country. In the
present number, we condense from an Eng-
lish paper, a report of an address by Miss
Becker, which touches, in a pithy manner,
on some of the most prominent points of the
Woman Suffrage question among our trans-
atlantic neighbors. We hope the opposition
and difficulties experienced by the friends
of Woman suffrage will result in the better
understanding of and appreciation by wo-
men of the rights, responsibilities and privile-
ges of the elective franchise, when obtained
by them.
	THE WASHINGTON Capitol describes the
proceedings of the first day of the present
sitting of Congress, in a graphic and ludicrous
manner. It states that "Dr. J. P. Newman
resigned his position as the Lord's stump
orator of the Senate." And speaking of
Hon. George Q. Cannon, it says:
	"The next object of interest was the poly-
gamous representative of the polygamous
Mormons, a stout, rather good looking man,
with a face that indicates more culture and
sense than the average congressman. When

[Column 2]
he stepped forward to take the oath one of
the few remaining Christian statesmen moved
that Mr. Cannon be not sworn in because of
certain illegal practices of which he, the
delegate, had been guilty. This was under-
stood to mean that he, said delegate, had
united himself in the holy bonds of matri-
mony to four wives. The consternation that
spread over the House at this announcement
was ludicrous to contemplate. If a member
was to be excluded for possessing four wives
what was to become of the gentlemen of
one wife each and no end of concubines? * *
Right and left started up and denounced
the motion with such vigor that it went out
with great puffs of wind, and the rotund
representative of the saints came to the
front and took his swear at the Constitution.
The ladies craned their fair necks to get a
better view of the member who found wo-
men willing to take a part of him—quarter
him as it were—and quite a ripple of light
laughter ran around the galleries as he swore
to sustain the Constitution, his own being
so sorely tried


[Column 1]
			MISCELLANEOUS.

	The best court of equity is a good con-
science. 
	The color of the wind was discovered by
the man who went out and found it blew.
	Every man stamps his value on himself.
The price we challenge for ourselves is giv-
en us. Man is made great or little by his
own will.—Schiller.
	An editor says that the only reason he knows of
why his house was not blown away the other day
during a severe gale was because there was a heavy
mortgage upon it.
	Gold will turn the intellectual balance when weigh-
ed only against reputation; but will be light and in-
effectual when the opposite scale is charged with
justice, veracity and piety.
	He that lives in perpetual suspicion lives the life
of a sentinel never relieved, whose business is to look
out for an expectant enemy, which is an evil not
very far short of perishing by him.
	The evidences of the value of deep cultivation are
plainly shown wherever a ditch has been filled up,
or where the drains have been deeply placed. There
the crops show to visable advantage for more than
twenty years.
	Our most enduring good comes from the
resistance of evil, and that is the only way
of achieving that very good. All we gain
must be gained by earnest effort, and our
greatest happiness ensues from vanquish-
ing obstacles.
	I have had occasion to observe that a
warm blundering man does more for the
world than a frigid wise man. One who
gets into a habit of inquiring about pro-
prieties, and occasions, often spends his
whole life without doing anything to the
purpose.—Cecil.
	Professor Agassiz’s knowledge of natural
history was probably greater than that of
any other man living. In the pursuit of
that knowledge, inspired by an ardent en-
thusiasm, he had been a most arduous work-
er through a long life.

[Column 2]

	An engraver in Springfield, Mass., has cut
the Lord’s Prayer into a piece of copper less
than one-fourth the size of a silver three-
cent piece, and they say there is room in the
circle for fifteen or twenty words more.
	The Arcade (N. Y.) “Times” says that the
young ladies of the Wheaton Seminary at
Norton, Mass., in view of the panic, have
resolved that they will spend upon them-
selves “no money not imperatively demand-
ed by honesty, health, tidiness or mental
improvement, and will carefully avoid every
species of wastefulness,” which is a very
sensible resolution to make tand o keep.
	A curious law case has recently arisen in
Berlin. A poor apprentice lad was lucky
enough at the last drawing of the State lot-
tery to win one-fourth of the great prize.
His principal, who knew that the lad had
no money of his own, or at least not the
amount required to buy one-fourth of the
ticket, pressed his apprentice to confess
where he obtained the money for this pur-
pose. The winning penitent acknowledged
that it was the produce of the sale of a piece
of goods stolen from his employer. The
principal now claims the lottery prize as his
property. The boy’s relations, on the other
hand, object to its surrender. 
	SILENT INFLUENCE.—We are touching
our fellow-beings on all sides. They are af-
fected for good or for evil by what we are,
by what we say and do, even by what we
think and feel. May-flowers in the parlor
breathe their fragrance through the atmos-
phere. We are each of us as silently satur-
ating the atmosphere about us with the sub-
tle aroma of our character. In the family
circle, besides and beyond all the teaching,
the daily life of each parent and child mys-
teriously modifies the life of every person
in the household. The same process on a
wider scale is going on through the commu-
nity. No man liveth to himself, and no
man dies to himself. Others are built up and
straightened by our unconscious deeds, and
others may be wrenched out of their places
and thrown down by our unconscious influ-
ence.
	GIRL AND WIFE.—Who has not seen with
half wonder the sudden development of a
young couple when once they have become 
father and mother? A few days ago—yester-
day it seems—and they were almost children.
The young wife was a girl, with all the joyous
carelessness and heedless buoyancy of a child;
her older friends—at least those who had not
thought enough—shook their heads dubiously,
and told one another that she was "fit for any-
thing but to be married;" "she would be better
at home with her mother, or even at her
school.”  But the wife becomes a mother, and
a marvellous transformation takes place. There
may be the same vivacity and spirit, but all is
calmer, deeper, stronger. She has entered a
new world, and is endued with new powers. A
wise providence has taken the place of thought-
lessness, a firm self-reliance that of helpless
dependence, an untiring energy that of dreamy
inactivity. The girl has suddenly become a
woman, challenging your respect with your
admiration.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the EXPONENT
					IN MEMORIAM.
	"THE MEMORY OF THE JUST IS BLESSED."—BIBLE.

Complimentary to "Exponent" Party, to celebrate the
	Anniversary of the Prophet Joseph's birth.

	In every land, and every age
		Men honor their illustrious dead,
	And garnish the historic page
	  	With Eulogies, of names who've led!

	In science, war, or realms of thought,
		Though far removed, or hither led;
	No fight so fearful as they fought
		In life,—none honored more when dead.

	Despised, disowned, accounted mad,
		Punished by faggot, dungeon, steel;
	How many a broken heart such had,
		Whose works were for their races' weal!

	No music from the trump of fame,
		No craving for a world's applause,
	No wish to win themselves a name,
		Inspired these Braves in duty's cause!

	But scarcely have they gone to rest
		Than stately monuments are raised;
	And party blazoned with their crest,
		Surrounds the shrines at which they're praised.

	Cities for centuries contend,
		Each wastes its time in nauseous lore,
	And circumstance unjustly bend
		For honor of their birth-place more!

	And many Saviors crucified
		As trators to their age and time,
	Have by their sons been deified
		And worshipped in their land and clime.

	But not for seers and sages old,
		In Christian or in Pagan world;
	Do we in reverence this day hold,
		Or ask a birth-day flag unfurled.

	Here, for "a man" we knew in life,
		Here, for a man we wept when slain,
	Here where his triumphs mark the strife,
		And promise of a future reign.

	Joseph, thy birth we celebrate,
		This day shall consecrated be,
	Till Israel's homes shall reverberate
		O'er Zion's land from sea to sea!

	Thou Prophet of the Latter-Day,
		Thou, in the midst of darkness sent
	By Revelation's power to sway,
		Till Heaven and Earth in one are blent. 

	Thou Faithful, True to thy great call,
		Through persecution, trial, DEATH,
	Then calm, serene, as evening fall,
		Dear martyred one, to yield thy breath!

	Joseph, the Seer, the Man of God,
		The Prophet--Martyr of our day;
	The Savior; if the path is trod
		Which thy example did portray!
	
	May we renew our love to thee,
		On this selected natal day,
	And through a faithful life agree
		To inaugurate the better day!

	When faithful men shall in their time
 		Have all the honors Truth bestows,
	Till earth shall have that genial clime
		Which in the Heavenly Kingdom glows.


R. S. REPORTS.

	Mrs. Christina Lilienquist, President of
the Relief Society at Hyrum, Cache Co.,
writes from that place under date Dec. 9, 1873:
And informs us that the Society there is do-
ing a good work in caring for the sick; and
that the Teachers are very faithful in visit-
ing from house to house. They appreciate
and prize the EXPONENT, and realize that
it is a great help to them as a Society. Their
financial affairs are in a very good condition.

	Secretary Mrs. J. Rickard, of the Second
Ward in this city, reports a meeting of the
Relief Society, Dec. 11th, 1873, which was
attended by Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs.
Zina D. Young. After much good instruc-
tion had been given to those assembled in
meeting, a young ladies' association was or-


ganized according to the proper form; with
Miss Maria Petersen as President; Miss
Maria McGregor, Miss Josephine Johnson,
Miss Mary Lun, Miss Emma Hicks Counse-
lors, (two other counselors to be afterwards
chosen,) and Miss Mary Jensen Secretary.

	A highly interesting report of a special
meeting, held in the Sugar House Ward,
Dec. 10, 1873, is forwarded by Secretary
Mrs, Sarah Wheeler. The aged, and much
respected and beloved Mother in Israel,
Sister Elizabeth A. Whitney, was present
as a visitor, in company with Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. Z. D. Young and several others.
The sweet singing and precious words given
by Sister Whitney, formed a very pleasing
and characteristic part of the meeting.


FROM DIXIE.

	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, Dec. 18th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	This beautiful morning, I take occasion,
according to promise, to address you a few
lines.
	We left Salt Lake City, Nov. 28th, and
arrived here Dec. 15th; had a prosperous 
journey. There were storms and cold wea-
ther after we left Nephi. We were detained
one day at Kanarra on account of wind and
snow.
	Our party consists of Prest. Young, his
wife Amelia, three teamsters and two young
girls; Bro. A. M. Musser and teamster;
my husband and son, and your correspon-
dent. We held twenty-five meetings on
the way. I met with and addressed the
sisters at Nephi, Ephraim, and Richfield;
the audiences were large. At Ephraim, the
members of the Relief Society were build-
ing a fine hall; they had also donated one
thousand dollars towards gathering the poor
Saints from Scandinavia; they are a splen-
did band of sisters, very energetic in all
their movements; they take about thirty
numbers of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
calculate to increase the number of subscrib-
ers, although many cannot read English.
In Richfield the same difficulties occur, many
not being able to read English. Richfield is
a new settlement, but enterprising; I had
a good time with the sisters there.
	The new road from Richfield across the
mountain to Cove Creek Fort, thirty-five
miles, passes through some very romantic
scenery. This road is a great improvement.
	Sevier County contains five hundred en-
terprising families; though the settlements
are all new, the irrigating canals are on a
scale that would do credit to the oldest coun
ties.  The red soil of this valley is very 
rich and is capable of sustaining a large
population.
	Sanpete County has sent ninety-three men
to assist in building the St. George Temple,
finding their own supplies. They com-
menced work to-day.
	Success attend your enterprise.
				BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.


A WORD TO THE WISE—Christian women,
do not begin the new year by putting an oc-
casion to stumble in a brother's way. Do not
tempt your guests with wine. Give them a
cordial welcome, your kindest wishes, your
brightest smiles, and whatever of "good-
cheer" your hearts may prompt; but offer
them nothing which can by any possibility
be a destruction and a snare. Let not your
deeds belie your words, and make for any of
your friends an unhappy new year.


MISS BECKER ON WOMAN SUFFERAGE

	On Tuesday evening, Oct. 1st, at Oakfield,
England, Miss Becker delivered the follow-
ing interesting address on Woman Suffrage.
Mr. Thomasson occupied the chair.
	Miss Becker commenced with a few com-
plimentary remarks, and then referred to
the political position of women, and said
that if they considered for a moment the va-
rious propositions that were made for the
welfare of the nation, they could not fail to
be struck with the omissions of all distinct
reference to women in many important
branches of legislation. There were certain
matters—such, for instance, as those rela-
ting to food and sanitary science—in which
the reference to women was not material,
because it was universally admitted that
in such matters the welfare of women was
included in that of men. But when they
came to consider the moral, intellectual, and
political welfare of the country, they would
find that all reference to women was omit-
ted, not because women were included, but
because they were excluded. It was admit-
ted that women had the same physical wants
as men, but as far as their intellectual and
social needs were concerned, it was thought
that what was desirable for the one was un-
desirable for the other. It was the object of
the movement they had the honor to repre-
sent to secure for women an equal share
with men in moral, intellectual and social
needs. All women labored under certain
political disabilities. They had no votes in
the election of the Government under which
they lived. It was true that very many
classes of men had no votes, but their dis-
qualification was very different indeed from
the disability under which women suffered.
At one time all who professed the Roman
Catholic faith were excluded from represen-
tation in Parliament, and were subjected to
a series of severe penal laws, but in the
course of time doctrines of civil and religi-
ous liberty prevailed and then Catholics
were enfranchised, because it was thought
that nothing short of that would secure
them such liberty. There was no mention
in the old Acts of Parliament of the franchise
being limited to men, the first enactment
in which it was limited to male persons be-
ing the Act of 1832. In the Act of 1867
the word "man" was used, and she contend-
ed that the word had a higher meaning than
was attributed to it by many, and included
humanity at large. In saying this, she was
not without authority, for in an Act of Par-
liament which had been brought in by the
late Lord Brougham it was expressly de-
clared that words imputing the masculine
gender should be taken to include females
in all the clauses of that Act. Before the
passing of the Act of 1867, it was stated in
the House of Commons that it was intend-
ed to give the franchise to all householders
rated for the relief of the poor, and many
poor women were hardly able to pay the ex-
tra rates imposed under this bill, but when
they applied to the courts in 1868, to claim
the votes given under the Act, they found
that the words imputing the masculine gen-
der applied to them in the clauses imposing
the burdens, but excluded them from the
clauses conveying the privileges. There
were certain classes of men, viz., minors,
idiots, lunatics, and criminals that were not
permitted to vote, and surely it was not
very wonderful that women should desire to
escape from such a category. But when 
they enquired into the question, they found
that the condition of women was worse. A
minor would be entitled to the franchise in
a few years, but a woman was never able to
acquire the right of voting. A learned


[Column 1]
judge had laid it down that "infants cannot
vote, and that women are perpetual infants."
She would ask them to bear in mind the
influence of women in the civilization of the
world, and say if that judge was right in
thus speaking of women, was it not true
that the most important lessons a man could
learn were learned at his mother's knee?
And was it right that the law should teach
him when he grew up, to regard his mother
as a perpetual infant? It had been proposed
in the House of Commons that when a man
was convicted of felony and sentenced to
penal servitude he should be disfranchised,
but Mr. Gladstone replied that it was not
right to punish a man by giving him "life-
long electoral incapacity." But although
this was thought too severe for criminals, it
was inflicted without compunction on a class
of beings who had never broken the law.
In effect, therefore, a man might rob his
mistress, go to prison for the offence, and
then come out of gaol and help to make
laws to govern the mistress he had robbed.
It had been laid down by authority that if
a lunatic had a lucid interval at the time of
an election, and was sufficiently "compo-
mentis" to distinguish between the candi-
dates, he was entitled to vote, but the law
regarded women as never having a suffi-
ciently lucid moment to vote; so that the
law placed them intellectually below luna-
tics, and morally, below felons. As to the
illiterate voter, they all knew the wonder-
ful pains that had been taken to secure his
vote. Yet, strange to say, an educated wo-
man was not allowed to record her vote.
There was an old maxim that taxation and
representation should go together, and that
was all she asked for. In 1868 it was found
that there was so much corruption in the
borough of Bridgewater that a Royal Com-
mission was sent down to report on the sub-
ject, and the committee found so much cor-
ruption that they disfranchised the borough.
Now the people of Bridgewater discovered
that a Royal Commission was a very expen-
sive luxury, and a rate of 3s. in the pound
was levied on the rate-payers. This rate fell
very heavily on a number of poor ladies in
the borough who were rate-payers, and they
sent a memorial to the Home Office, stating
that as they had no votes they should not be
called upon to pay for the faults of the men.
But Mr. Bruce replied that it was not in the
power of the Government to release them
from the imperial and local taxation to which
their property was liable. That perhaps was
a right answer to give, but what they asked
for was that women, who owned or occupied
property, should have the vote the proper-
ty would carry with it if they were men, in
addition to the monetary liabilities. It
might be said that their claim was a just one,
but that it was necessary to show more rea-
sons than the one that it was just. She could
not admit that. When a thing was clearly
put they might rest assured that good would
accrue from giving it, and that evil would
follow its refusal. Miss Becker then referred
to the speech which Mr. John Bright deliv-
ered in 1868, on the first occasion on which
he addressed a public meeting after his re-
covering from a severe illness. Mr. Bright
said: "I do not wish to endanger or remove
any of the ancient landmarks of our Consti-
tution. I do not wish to disturb this ques-
tion of the franchise beyond what has al-
ready been sanctioned by Parliament and
the country. I do not want to introduce any
new principle or theoretical opinion which
it may be found difficult to adopt.	*	*
*	*	*	*	*	What have we at
present in the way of franchises? We have
the parish franchise. For generations, for
ages past, there has been an extensive fran-

[Column 2]
chise in all our parishes. We have poor-
law unions which have worked on the whole
in a manner satisfactory to the country. We
have a franchise in our poor-law unions.
We have a corporation franchise, and that
franchise may be said to have worked to the
satisfaction of the country. I will ask any
man here whether he believes that in all
parishes, all the poor-law unions, and all the
corporations, men have not conducted them-
selves with great propriety, and managed
the affairs of their parishes, the poor-law
unions, and the corporations, women had
not conducted themselves with propriety;
and whether he would object to have the
same franchise conferred upon them for the
election of the members of the House of
Commons? She argued that in the days of
open voting the influence of women in an
election was greater than it was now when
a man voted secretly, according to his own
will and pleasure, and was responsible to no
one. The idea that the franchise was a
trust, had been done away with by the prac-
tice of secret voting, and it was, therefore,
only just that each class of the community,
who used formerly to influence an election,
should have the secret vote. The passing
of the Ballot Act had removed a great ob-
jection to women's suffrage. Mr. Gladstone
said that his objection to it was that it would
involve women in all the turmoil of contest-
ed elections, but the objection had now been
removed, for whatever else the ballot had
done it had introduced order into elections.
Women were very much addicted to com-
mitting matrimony, but when they did so
the law treated them as if they had com-
mitted felony. A criminal could not hold
property, and a woman from the day of her
marriage became incapable of possessing
property. There was not a large town in
England in which some woman was not
shamefully robbed every day. By the Act
of 1870, a woman, when she married, trans-
ferred all her liabilities to her husband, but
the House of Lords made this arrangement;
they gave the husband the property and the
wife the debts. Miss Becker then proceed-
ed to make a few remarks on the present
position of the movement. The Govern-
ment in encouraging women to come for-
ward as School Board candidates, distinctly
recognized the right of women to share in
the government of the country. How then,
she would ask, could women who sat at
School Board meetings and assisted to solve
such knotty points as the payment of de-
nominational fees, &c. be considered as
unfit to choose between two Parliamentary
candidates? It was too great an anomaly to
last. It was proposed to give the franchise
to agricultural laborers; but could it be said
that women had less political experience and
less capability for the franchise than agri-
cultural laborers? Why was the franchise
to be given to laborers? It was thought
they needed it as a protection. The very
same reason, she need hardly add, applied
to women. The extension of the Municipal
and School Board franchise to women had
worked well, and there was no reason what-
ever why the Parliamentary franchise should
be withheld. If men advance women must
advance. Man and woman must go hand in

[Column 3]
hand, and if man will not bring her forward
she will draw man back, for man cannot ad-
vance himself from woman. After sketch-
ing forth the programme of the Women's
Suffrage Society, Miss Becker concluded her
address by eloquently appealing to the audi-
ence to use whatever influence they possess-
ed to remove an anomaly which was inju-
rious to the best interests of the country.— 
“Bolton Guardian.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LOCAL NOTES.

	WHILE WE CONTEMPLATE
The dawn of the year eighteen, seventy four, we
can only ask, that with the advantage of past
experience, we, and our friends, may stamp
upon its page a better record, than we have left
upon that of any past year.
	OUR KIND CONGRATULATIONS
To Mr. D. A. Swan and Miss M. Cora, who
were married in this city on the 31st ult., Pres.
D. H. Wells officiating. May their peace be
perpetual, and their pathway strewn with flow-
ers.
		MRS. HATTIE MORRIS
Has been elected recording secretary for the
High Priest's quorum.
	"IN BLESSING YE ARE BLESSED."
Counselor Elias Morris of the bishopric of the
15th Ward will this day (New Year's) feast, or
entertain, at his table, the aged, the infirm, the
poor, the widow and the orphan of the ward,
and thus earn multiplied blessings, and honors.
			WE ARE PLEASED
To learn that the Boston centennial Tea Party
was crowned with the success that the occasion
and the times demand. Our sympathies are en-
listed for all earnest workers for the public
weal.
		WE MAKE OBEISANCE
To our next door neighbor, Wyoming. Larimie
County, has elected two women as members of
the Legislature, one third of the six representa-
tives to which the country is entitled. Mr.
Blackwell says that is equitable because women
form one third of the population there.
			WE QUERY
How many women it would require to make
the equitable proportion to which Salt Lake
County is entitled in our Legislature.
			WE LEARN
That the Florence Co., have reduced the price of
their machines from 30 to 40 per cent. That is
business.
			THE GRANGLS.
These organizations must become a power in
the land, and their results must be good, be-
cause they complete no organization without
the co-operation of women. Men and women
are ordained to stimulate each other to good
words, and good works.			S. M. K.


Five hundred millions of frances is the sum to-
tal of the damages inflicted upon Paris by the com-
munists. Add to this enormous aggregate the
amounts paid and still due to Germany, to this again
the incalculable damage inflicted upon the agricultu-
ral districts of unhappy France by the contending
armies, and an idea may be formed of what the
second empire cost the French people. Very dear-
ly have they paid for reconstructed Paris, for Cher-
bourg harbor, for a fleet of useless iron-clads, for
an army glittering and imposing in peace, but ut-
terly inefficient in war. The Bonapartes, uncle
and nephew, have added to the glory of France,
but the price paid for their services must be set
down as an exhorbitant one in the extreme, and,
if Frenchmen consult the welfare of their purses,
they will have nothing further to do with such ex-
pensive rulers.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.

			THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT
		     
			L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.

			   SVLT LAKE CITY, JAN. 1, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	A hundred and sixty young ladies attend
the Cincinnati Wesleyan College............A
daughter of the poet Burns, Mrs. Thomp-
son died at Crossmyloof, near Glasgow, re-
cently, aged eighty-four years............Miss
Yonge is writing a Child's History of Eng-
land......Dr. Elizabeth Pope of Oneonta, N.
Y., has an extensive practice in that village
......Mrs. John P. Croser sent $5,000 as a
gift for the endowment fund of the Baptist
House for aged women at Philadelphia,
which was opened November 8th............
Volunteers for Cuba are organizing in
Louisiana......It is estimated that but half a
crop of anything has been raised in Mon-
tana this year......Persimmmon seeds are used
in Georgia as a substitute for Coffee.........
Wendell Philips lectures on "Labor, Tem-
perance and Woman"......A restriction of
Chinese immigration is favored by Geo
Booth of California.....Zuleika, a Persian
actress, is soon to make an appearance in
London......The hat, cloak and cane of Lord
Byron were lately exhibited at a Scottish
Fair......Watchel, Stanley and Parepa Rosa
return to America next season.......The indi-
go plant is indigenous to Florida......Mrs.
H. M. Tracy Cutler is spending the winter
in Paris......The town of Milton, California,
was recently almost entirely destroyed by a
tornado.


THE PARTY.

		Salt Lake City, Dec. 28th, 1873.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:
	Permit me, through the columns of the
EXPONENT to make known the result of our
party, held Tuesday, Dec. 23rd,
	After paying all expenses, we find a bal-
lade remaining, amounting to twenty-
five dollars, which we feel happy to turn
over for the benefit of the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT. Our Committee did their best to
make the party a success; and only regret
that our friends did not more generally
avail themselves of the opportunity to help
in so good a cause. There are yet, some
thirty tickets, or more, to be heard from, as
we were assured they should be paid for,
whether the purchasers were able to be pres-
ent at our entertainment or not; and I have
not the least doubt but that all who prom-
ised will come forward and pay for their tick-
ets; by so doing,they will give the Commit-
tee the gratification of knowing their exer-
tions were not in vain.
	I also desire, in behalf of our Committee,
to make honorable reference to Gen. D. H.
 Wells, for his kind assistance in procuring
the 14th Ward Hall, from Bishop Taylor,
who kindly gave us the use of the hall gra-
tuitously. Thanks to both gentlemen. Like-
wise to Sister M. I. Horne, the 14th Ward
R. S. and Sisters W. Jennings, E. Townsend,
K. Young and others for their liberality in
providing supper for the band &c. free of
expense to us. Sisters W. East and Eliza-
beth Stephenson, who, together with Bro.
Eddy East, voluntarily assisted in preparing
rooms &c. For all these favors we are truly
grateful. And speaking for myself, I say,
gentlemen and ladies, I thank you one and
all for your liberality and assistance. And
we can promise you, that with the blessing
of God, and your kind support, the Infant
EXPONENT will continue to grow, and speak
for itself, from time to time not as a child
with stammering tongue, but in tones whose
clearness shall penetrate to the hearts of all
who read.
	Leaving further comments to our worthy
Editor, I subscribe myself
		Yours very truly, MRS. E. DAVIS.


REFLECTIONS.

	Often when we hear people talk of trials and
tribulations, which have seemed to humble and
purify their natures, we wonder if such scenes
of suffering and sorrow are really necessary for
the purification and eventual exaltation of such
souls. Why wait for trials to subdue, and thus en-
noble the spirit? Those who study to gain wis-
dom and act upon correct principles, find less
cause for grief in the way of life than others
do; and when troubles do come to them they
are best prepared to meet them bravely and
bear them with fortitude, feeling no cause for
self-reproach.
	There is far more wisdom and happiness in
being humble, and submissive to the will of
God because we love Him and delight in His
ways, than in being brought to acknowledge
His hand through the weight of affliction.
	The commandments which the Lord has
given for the government of his people, are all
plain and easy to be understood and practiced.
Yet thought and attention must be devoted to
these principles which have been revealed, or,
simple and comprehensive as they are, we shall
walk blindly. And, in embracing some of
them, will be in danger, through want of know-
ledge and self-discipline, of finding trouble,
having taken upon ourselves to live by laws for
which we were unqualified and unprepared.
	The sacred marriage covenant, which com-
prehends the keeping of the first great com-
mandment, should never be entered into with-
out due consideration. It is always unwise
and most unprofitable to trifle with things so
sacred, or to treat the subject with little re-
spect. Particularly in entering plural marriage,
the principle should be as perfectly understood
by all parties concerned as possible. To realize
that the doctrine is of divine authenticity is not
sufficient, although to comprehend this is very
essential. Men and women should seek dili-
gently to know themselves. And if one feels
that he or she has not yet sufficient faith to
abide a holy law, in righteousness, first learn to
live before the Lord in such a manner as to
have faith and wisdom increased, until worthy
to live in the highest order in such perfection
as to ensure the highest glory.


﻿ANOTHER YEAR.

	Eighteen-Hundred and Seventy-three is now
with the dull dead past; but upon its pages have
been recorded potent facts, which will live in
history forever. Numerous great events have
transpired and been chronicled in all parts of
the world, during the course of its existence.
Yet even greater things may be contemplated
in meditating upon the year which dawns to-
day. The direful results, of financial crashes
which have occurred in the past year, will only
be fully realized during the reign of its imme-
diate successor. Present indications determine


that the race between reform and folly in every
shape, will be more swiftly and energetically
pursued in the next twelve months than in any
past period of the same length. And the bat-
tle between Truth and Error,—which in the
present dispensation, perhaps more than in any
other since the beginning, is making rapid ap-
proach towards a consummation—it may be re-
garded as a fixed certainty, will rage more
fiercely and bring about greater consequences
in the near future than in any time of the
past.
	To us, the face of the new-born year is truly
bright and joyous as our most ardent friends
could wish. And we feel like saying to our sis-
ters everywhere—Be of good cheer. If mis-
takes have occurred in the past to mar the hap-
piness of a life, let the future prove that per-
fection can be gained through experience. Put
away all jealousies and envious thoughts,
whether of a public or private nature. Be sure
that you are reasonable and just in all your de-
terminations and in all your practices. Seek to
build each other up in every legitimate way.
Pray often; and your faith in God and knowl-
edge of heavenly things will increase beyond
your most sincere anticipations. These things
and these alone can bring, to those who desire
to do good, peace and joy and satisfaction.
	President Wells, in his discourse in the 14th
Ward, last Sabbath, remarked that no Latter-
day Saint could afford to lay off the armor of
righteousness for one moment; for Satan was
ever on the alert, ready to decoy and ensnare
at every turn. This little remark is worthy of
the most careful attention of all Saints—it is a
truth of vast importance.
	Now we wish our friends and readers, one
and all, a happy New Year, and many blissful
returns of the day.


﻿CELEBRATION OF THE PROPHET’S
			 BIRTHDAY.

	The entertainment, concerning which the
above communication has been written—held
on the 68th anniversary of the birth-day of the
Prophet Joseph, instead of the 67th as was an-
nounced in our last issue was one long to be
remembered by those who participated therein.
	Besides the usual exercise of dancing, there
were very interesting addresses made upon the
birth, life and death of President Joseph Smith,
by Elders Orson Pratt and John Taylor, of which
more may be said in another issue of the EXPO-
NENT.
	The singing of the well known hymn "Hail to
the Prophet,” the recitation by Mrs. Davis of
Elder Jaques’ poem on Plural marriage and a
cvoal duet by two young ladies, with organ
accompaniment were very pleasant inci-
dents of the evening’s entertainment. Con-
siderable merriment was excited by the presen-
tation of a fine “artificial” baby, very plainly
and neatly dressed, as a representation of the
EXPONENT in its infancy. The little unconcious
creator of innocent mirth, reposing in a cozy,
home-made cradle, first appeared before the
company, in the hands of Elder Taylor. After
making a very spicy and most befitting speach
upon the subject, he submitted the “precious
charge” to the care of Miss E. R. Snow, who
in turn made appropriate remarks and then
handed it over to the Editor.
	We take pleasure in choosing the present fa-
vorable opportunity for offering our heart-felt
thanks, which we had not words to express at
the time, for the kindness manifested by our
worthy friends,towards us individually, as well
as in behalf of the enterprise in which we are
engaged.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A large and beautifully ornamented "birth-
day cake" bearing the date of birth, and name
of the Prophet—made for the occasion by Mrs.
E. Davis—was presented to the company. And
every individual present, had the privilege of
being personally satisfied, that the splendid ap-
pearance of the cake was fully equaled by its
eating qualities.
	Miss Snow being unable to deliver an address,
on account of a severe cold, penned the follow-
ing, which was read by Miss Mary E. Cook—

	ANNIVERSARY TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF
		PRES. JOSEPH SMITH.
			BY E. R. SNOW.
Brothers and Sisters,
	We are now celebrating the sixty-eight anni-
versary of the birth-day of a great and good
man.
	The birth and mission of Joseph Smith, the
man whom God called in childhood, to be His
chosen instrument in opening the long predict-
ed "Dispensation of the fulness of times," con-
stitute an event which will be perpetuated when
nations and their histories shall have been bur-
ied in oblivion. No greater prophet, except Je-
sus Christ, ever lived on earth.
	As a philanthropist, his soul was broad as
Eternity. In the cause of truth and righteous-
ness—in all that would benefit his fellow man,
his integrity was as firm as the pillars of Hea-
ven. He knew that God had called him to the
work, and all the powers of earth and hell
combined, failed, either to deter or divert him
from his purpose. With the help of God and
his brethren, he laid the foundation of the
greatest work ever established by man—a work
extending not only to all the living, and to all
the generations to come, but also to the dead.
	He boldly and bravely confronted the false
traditions, superstitions, religions, bigotry and
ignorance of the world—proved himself true to
every heaven-revealed principle—true to his
brethren and true to God, then sealed his testi-
mony with his blood, and left his faithful suc-
cessor, his brother philanthropist, Brigham
Young to lead forward in the mighty work
which he had commenced. How successfully
Pres. Young, in connection with his brethren,
has labored in fulfilling the designs of the first
leader, living facts demonstrate more forcibly
than the power of language.
	The names of Joseph Smith and Brigham
Young are like their works, interwoven in
wreaths of Immortality. The memories of
these men will never perish.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THANKS, FOR kind complimentaries on
Christmas, from friends in the 1st Ward,
and from Mrs. Mary L. Morris of the 15th
Ward.
	TO DAY, a Sabbath School and Ward pic-
nic is held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms. Elder John Taylor and Miss Eliza
R. Snow honor the company with their pre-
sence. We shall be able to give more par-
ticulars concerning the pleasantries and
good times of the day in our next.
	THE UTAH Northern R. R. which was
blockaded a short time since between Logan
and Hampton's Station, has, through the
energies and perseverence of the President
and men of the road, again been rendered
passable. Along a considerable length of
the track, a snow fence has been made, and
where it is necessary, sheds are being put
up. The trains  run now on time.
	THE SALT Lake Fire Department advances
rapidly in the line of progression. On the
26th ult., a new company, consisting of more
than one hundred men, was organized by
chief-engineer McAllister. Its station will
be at, or near the depot. This makes the
sixth company belonging to the department.
Last evening we met with a most agreeable
company at the Fire Brigade Ball, held in
the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms. The hall
and withdrawing room, which were fitted


up by the Company, with articles mostly
belonging to itself, were as neatly and com-
fortably furnished as any we have had the
pleasure ot entering this season. Works of
art of various kinds, from their library,
which graced the tables of the withdrawing
room, spoke well for the good taste and love
of refinement which is cultivated and en-
couraged by the officers and members of the
department. The ball is to be continued
this evening,so as to give all the firemen an
opportunity to participate in the festivities,
and enjoy themselves.


FROM JUAB.
		NEPHI, Dec. 15th 1873.
Dear Sister Greene Richards:
	I will not say Editor WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT, because I never learned to write for
the press, neither can I put my ideas on pa-
per in a manner to please myself.  But if
you can, at any time, cull an item from my
writing to you, that will be of any use to
your paper, you are at liberty to do so.
	Two weeks ago yesterday, Prest. Young
and party arrived here, and stayed over Sun-
day. During the time, we had much valua-
ble preaching. Prest. G. A. Smith, wife
and son stopped with us. We had a fine
time visiting with Sister Bathsheba. She
requested me to write a few lines about her
visit here. We had a meeting called of the
Relief Society. There was a general turn
out, to listen to the good advice and whole-
some counsel of Sister Smith. She spoke
on the subjects of Sunday Schools and the
interest we as mothers, should take in get-
ting our children ready to go, in teaching
them to pay tithing, to help build temples
and every other good work. Said the sis-
ters should sustain their husbands in every
good thing; they should be careful to ob-
serve the words of wisdom. She spoke to
the young ladies on retrenchment, and on
educating themselves, that they might be
able to fill important stations in the King-
dom of God.
	Prest. Smith also gave us some good
teaching, also Br. Musser, Sister Hartley
Prest. of the Relief Society at Levan, and
also our own Prest., Sister A. Goldsbrough,
who felt so much blessed at having the privi-
lege of meeting with Sister Smith and the 
other visitors, in which I felt to heartily join.
Taking it all together, we had a glorious
time.
	I believe it is a general time of health
here, at present, although I am not quite
well myself. The weather has been very
unfavorable of late. Money is very scarce.
	Wishing you success in every laudable
pursuit, I subscribe myself
		Yours sincerely,
				      AMY C. BIGLER.


﻿SPEND WISELY.—Look most to your
spending. No matter what comes in if more
goes out, you will always be poor. The art
is not in making money, but in keeping it;
little expenses like mice in a barn, when
they are many, make great waste. Hair  by
hair heads get bald; straw by straw the
thatch goes off the cottage, and drop by drop
rain comes in the chamber. A barrel is soon
empty if the tap leaks but a drop a minute.
When you begin to save, begin with your
mouth; there are many thieves down the
red lane. The ale-jug is a great waste. In
other things keep within compass. In
clothes, choose suitable and lasting stuff, and
not tawdry fineries. To be warm is the first
thing; never mind the looks.


HUMOROUS.

	A SMART THING —A mustard plaster.
	AN UNPOPULAR "ism" —The rheumatism.
	HOW TO raise beets—Take hold of the
top and pull.
	THE CONNECTION link between the ani-
mal and vegitable kingdoms—Hash. 
	OF ALL the birds that please us with
their lays, the most popular is the hen.
	IT IS very easy to say, Take things as
they come; but suppose they don't come.
	SINGULAR AFFECTION—It is rather odd
that so many horses should run away and
smash vehicles to which they are so much
attached. 
	A MARYLAND paper, in speaking of the
death of a lady, says "she lived fifty years
with her husband, and died in confident
hope of a better life."
	JUDGE (to prisoner convicted of grand lar-
ceny)—"Have you anything to offer to the
court before sentence is passed on you?"
Prisoner—"No, judge, I'm broke. I had ten
dollars when I came in here, but my law-
yer's got that ten dollars now."
	A BOSTON paper says that a homesick San
Franciscan, who is visiting his friends in
Massachusetts, finds occasional relief by hav-
ing sand squirted in his face and down his
back with a bellows, somewhat as the wind
does it in San Francisco.
	Brother P——, of Concord Presbytery,
is fond of certain stereotyped expressions,
which in the excitement of the moment, he
sometimes applies rather inappropriately.
Once, preaching a funeral sermon, while the
corpse lay before him, he excalimed: "Here,
brethren, we have before us a living witness
and a standing monument of the frailty of
human hopes!"
	A WITNESS in a divorce suit kept referring
to the wife as having a very retaliating dis-
position. "She always retaliated for every
little thing," said the witness. "Did you
ever see her husband kiss her?" asked the
wife's council. "Yes, a great many times."
"Well, what did she do on such occasions?"
"She always retaliated, sir." The wife's
retaliating disposition didn't hurt her any
with the jurors.
	"NOW THEN, madam, please look steadily
at this place on the wall," said a photo-
graphist to good old Aunt Hepzibah, when
he had put her in position and the plate in
the camera. The dear old lady looked hard
at the designated spot from her seat, then
got up and walked across the floor and mi-
nutely inspected it, and then turning to the
photographer, gently remarked, "I don't
see anything there."
	AS SOME lady visitors were going through
a penetentiary, under the escort of the Su-
perintendent, they came to a room in which
three women were sewing. "Dear me!"
one of the visitors whispered. "what vicious
looking creatures! Pray, what are they
here for?" "Because they have no other
home; this is our sitting-room, and they
are my wife and two daughters," blandly
answered the Superintendent. 
	IT IS said when the Greek Archbishop of
Syros and Tenos attended the other day in
the Senate House at Cambridge, England,
for the purpose of receiving his honorary de-
gree of L. L. D., he dropped his pocket
handkerchief, and as he stooped down to re-
cover it, one of the graduates in the gal-
lery exclaimed, "Hurrah for the Grecian
bend!" The effect was so intensely ludicrous
that the whole assemblage was convulsed 
with laughter.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
		NEW YEAR'S GREETING.

	SONG. Tune, "The Mistletoe Bough:"
The glad New Year—the glad New Year!
In varied guises it doth appear:—
Eyes of beauty and eyes of light;
Looks of gladness and love unite;
While many a form in reverence bows
To hail old Time with his fresh young spouse;
And the sorrowing heart, and the anguished tear,
All greet the glorious, glad New Year.
			CHORUS: O! The happy New Year—
					      Joyous glad New Year!

The mother meets fondly her new-born's breath,
And kindred weep o'er the bed of death:
There are sounds of mirth 'round the festal board,
With luxurious dainties in fulness stored;
While the miser, unmoved, hears the plaintive calls
Of famishing souls by his grim, cold walls;
But the blest and the wise with their bounteous cheer,
Forget not the poor on the glad New Year.
			Chorus: O! The happy New Year!etc.

The clattering hoof and the chiming bell,
Of out-door merriment boldly tell;
In sportive haste glide the skaters by,
Bowing and smiling as eye meets eye;
'Mid blithsome music and dance and song,
The young folks are speeding bright hours along;
And the laughter of little ones gleeful and clear,
Greets gaily the dawn of the glad New Year.
			Chorus: O! The happy New Year, etc.

But of all good things, of all things blest,
Thanks and praise to our God is best!
No other light can the day impart,
T' compare with the bliss of the grateful heart;
O! dearest hope, He will guide us still,
O! sweetest work to perform His will!
His Spirit and blessings and gifts are here—
O! praise ye His name on this glad New Year!
			Chorus: O! The happy New Year, etc.
										LULA.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	MUFFINS.—One quart of sour buttermilk,
one teacupful of sour cream, two eggs, one
tablespoonful of soda, a little salt, flour
enough to make quite as thick as pound
cake. Bake in muffin rings placed upon tins
in the oven, from twenty to thirty minutes,
according to the temperature of the stove.
	BEESWAX.—Melt the comb by boiling it
in water. When cool it will form a cake on
the surface, which may be taken off and re-
melted. The impurities will settle to the
bottom, and may be scraped off. If the first
melting is not sufficient, remelt until clear.
This makes the yellow wax of commerce.
	BOILED CUSTARD.—Take two table-spoon-
fuls of corn starch, one quart of milk, three
eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a small
piece of butter; heat the milk to nearly
boiling, and add the starch dissolved in a
part of the milk; then add the eggs well
beaten, with four table spoonfuls of powder-
ed sugar; let it boil up once or twice, stir-
ring it briskly, and it is done. Flavor with
lemon or vanilla to your taste.
	THE BOSTON "Journal of Chemistry"
says: "It is a well known fact that a soft-
boiled egg is more easily digested than a
hard boiled one; but the difficulty is in the
white, not in the yolk. Experiments have
shown that the gastric juice will not act
readily on the tough, tenacious structure of
firmly coagulated white of egg, even when
cut in pieces as small as peas—or as fine as
people usually chew their food—while it
acts with facility on the more brittle yolk.
To cook eggs so that they will easily be di-
gested, put them into boiling water sufficient
to cover them and let them remain ten or
fifteen minutes, keep the water nearly to
boiling point, but do not let it reach that
point. Fresh eggs will cook sooner than old
ones. By this process the yolks will be well
cooked, while the white does not become
tough and hard to digest."


HOMEMADE YEAST.—Grate four large
potatoes; while doing this, have a handful
of hops tied up in a cloth boiling in two
quarts of water. When the strength of the
hops is well boiled into the water, which
will take about twenty minutes, remove
them. Put into the water a small teacup
half-full of salt, the same amount of sugar,
and thicken with the grated potatoes. Boil
five minutes, stirring steadily. Turn into a
crock large enough to admit of rising, and
when just cool enough not to scald, stir in a
teacup-full of brewers yeast, or about a pint
of common home-made hop yeast. One tea-
cup-full of this yeast will rise two or three
loaves of bread; and it will keep two or
three weeks without souring. Bread made
from this yeast is remarkably sweet, light
and white.


[Column 1]
					[For the Exponent.
		REAL WOMEN.

	Who and what are they? Not the paint-
ed dolls and votaries of fashion, whose sole
earthly happiness seems to consist in being
elaborately dressed, and daintily perfumed,
and who so disfigure themselves, and dis-
arrange and 		up their apparel that it
is difficult to tell whether they are real or
imaginary beings: counterfeits of woman-
hood; false to nature, false to God who made
them perfect. Everything which tends to 
make them false, hypocritical and untrue,
perverts their own real nature; God made
woman beautiful, if not in face and figure,
yet the very nature of her mission on the
earth, helps to make her "a thing of beauty."
God intended her for a real comforter, a real
help-meet, what could be more charming,
more satisfying than this, were it carried
out to the very letter as he designed it
should be?
	How few there are who understand (even
in part) the importance of the position they
occupy, and for which they were specially
created, and strive to preserve their own
identity, their own individuality by being
real; it is a very simple, common-place word
yet it comprises so much.
	What man who possesses pure, manly in-
stincts, but in his heart were he left free to
choose, untrammeled by worldly tradition
and distinction, would prefer a real wo-
man to an artificial one; one who would be
content to fill a home-sphere, proud and
happy in the consciousness of being really
worthy her husband's love and esteem.
	Every day we hear it repeated, "a stylish
woman," "a magnificent woman," "a supe-
rior woman," "a literary woman," or "a
strong-minded woman." A hundred and
one adjectives are applied to the sex, but
whoever stops to think of the Real Woman
—the real living help? She who quietly,
without ostentation or parade, fulfills the
small, home-duties, cheerfully, patiently,
heroically and hopefully, unknown save to
those who constitute her own immediate
circle, and often unappreciated even there:
She has not wealth perhaps, or even a supe-
rior education, but if she has strong com-
mon sense, and an active mind, she is just
as capable of filling her mission here, and of
standing in her own real place hereafter,
as though she was a favorite of fortune or
the idol of the people.
	One of the popular writers of the present
day says "Man is what woman makes him;"
and I would kindly beg leave to add, "wo-
men are what men have made them." A
quiet, unpretending domestic woman is a
nobody nowadays, in the sight of the world.
A woman feels compelled to distinguish her-
self in some way or other, in order to elicit

[Column 2]
even the smallest share of attention from
these would be "Lords of Creation." In
the estimation of her own husband, (if she
happens to be favored with one,) she is sim-
ply a necessity in his establishment, to man-
age his house, to cook his dinner, to attend
to his wardrobe, always on hand if she is
wanted and always out of sight when not
needed. He does'nt mind kissing her occa-
sionally, when it suits him; but he never
thinks she has any thoughts of her own, any
ideas which might be developed; she must
not have even an opinion, or if she has she
must'nt express it, it is entirely out of place;
she is a subject, not a joint-partner in the
domestic firm.
	If men are really superior to women, let
them show themselves so; prove themselves
"pre-eminent," "akin to God." This is
what a real woman craves; something wor-
thy of reverence, of worship even, second
only to her Creator. But failing to find this,
she betakes herself to other things, finding
no superiority in her "Lord and master" nor
even acknowledgement of wifely duties, she
seeks for happiness through another chan-
nel easier of attainment. If a woman is
real enough to let her husband know she is
devotedly attached to him, in nine cases out
of ten, he only makes use of it to her dis-
advantage; consequently it has become gen-
eral among women to advise each other to
disguise their real feelings, afraid to ac-
knowledge them out of policy.
	Where can be the real happiness, the one-
ness? Is not this teaching women to be false
to their own hearts?
	Man, with all his boasted knowledge,
and practical skill in reading character, is
still in comparative ignorance of how wo-
men feel, or what they are. He regards
them as toys, to be picked up and cast aside
at will; very well for pastime playthings, or
for housekeepers; but to consider them real,
genuine, rational beings, is a novel idea; they
are vain, frivolous, fickle and deceitful, inca-
pable of performing any important part in
life creditably.
	I must acknowledge the real genuine ar-
ticle is hard to find, in this enlightened nine-
teenth century; but shall we succumb to
this foul aspersion upon our sex? Shall we or
be content with a false life, a counterfeit? shall
we be real women? We Latter-day Saints,
who profess to aspire to something purer,
higher, nobler and better than the world? We
are seeking to understand ourselves, our
own organization, our own individual life;
making a real use of our time, having a
real purpose in all that we do, in all that we
say, living a real life; laying up real treas-
ures in the kingdom of heaven;  not copy-
ing the fashions of the world, or their man-
ners, but improving for ourselves, guided
and directed by the best talent, judgment
and skill we possess. It is very easy to copy,
there is nothing real in that, not even a
freshness about it, it is only imitation; like
the silly school-girl, who, too idle to exer-
cise her own dormant faculties, copies from
her class-mate's slate, forgetting it will be
of no benefit to her in future; it serves her
purpose for the time being, it is sham, she
passes it off for real information.
	Let us be more cautious—let us know for
ourselves—that will make us real. We shall
then be better qualified to accomplish that
we are striving to attain to, not following a
shadow, or a phantom, but that which is
real; a real Gospel, which will elevate, re-
fine and purify, bringing us back into the
real presence, of Him whose aim and design,
in our creation was to make us real women.
				BLANCE BEACHWOOD.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 13th 1873.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		AN INTERESTING EXTRACT.
From a report of the New England Woman's Tea Party.

	SPEECH OF HENRY B. BLACKWELL.

It is written that "Faith without works is
dead." You have shown your faith by
crowding this hall to-night. I ask you to
show your works by passing a resolution
which I hold in my hand.
	You are all aware that Woman Suffrage
has been for several years an established
fact in the Territories of Wyoming and
Utah. In Wyoming, women have voted
and served on juries for four years. We
have had from year to year, the repeated
testimony of Chief Justice Howe, of Judge
Kingman, of Gov. John A. Campbell and
other prominent citizens, that the effect of
Woman Suffrage there has been "only good
and that continually." Indeed the citizens
of Laramie Co. have just signalized their
approval by electing two women as members
of the Legislature, being one third of the
six representatives to which that County is
entitled. That is equitable because women
form one-third of the population there. In
a message which Gov. Campbell has just
submitted to the Legislature of Wyoming,
he pronounces Woman Suffrage, after four
years trial, "an unqualified success." In
Utah, no evil results have followed the vo-
ting of women, nor would it be repealed by
the vote of the people of that Territory.
	A year ago the National Republican Plat-
form declared that "the republican party is
mindful of its obligations to the loyal women
of America for their noble devotion to the
cause of freedom, their admission to wider
spheres of usefulness is viewed with satis-
faction, and the honest demands of any class
of citizens for additional rights should re-
ceive respectful consideration." Yet, will it
be believed that Senator Frelinghuysen, a
Republican Senator, has actually introduced
a bill which makes it punishable by fine and
imprisonment for a woman to vote, forbids
her to serve on a jury, and even goes back
to the semi-barbarous ages and deprives
every married woman in all the Territories
of her rights of person, property, children
and earnings, and makes her a helpless de-
pendent in the house of her husband? In
express terms it subjects the women of the
Territories to the provisions of the "English
Common Law as it existed at the time of
the Declaration of Independence." But this
is not all. This same bill actually passed the
U.S. Senate last year, and would be a law,
to-day, if it had not been for the Suffrage
ladies of Massachusetts. They learned the
astounding fact, and wrote and telegraphed
to reliable Woman Suffrage Representatives,
to George F. Hoar and Benjamin F. Butler,
to A. A. Sargeant of California, to C. W.
Willard of Vermont, and half a dozen oth-
ers, and these gentlemen defeated the bill.
Now, at the very commencement of this ses-
sion, Senator Frelinghuysen again brings
forward this infamous bill, and in the name
of the Administration urges that it may be
put upon its speedy passage.
	Is this the reward that Republican Sena-
tors propose to confer on the women of
America for their noble devotion to the cause
of freedom? I can have some charity for
men who hesitate about conferring Suffrage
upon women. But I can have none for those
who seek to take it away where it is in the
full tide of successful experiment, by arbi-
trary Congressional interference with local
self-government. I call upon you therefore
to unite with me in the unanimous passage
of the following resolution:
	A verbal amendment was suggested by a

[Column 2]
gentleman on the floor of the house and one
by another in the gallery, both of which
were accepted by Mr. Blackwell.
	Lucy Stone reminded the women of New
England that here at least they had the
power to vote upon a question where the
honor and interests of Woman were in-
volved.
	The resolution was then adopted by a ring-
ing vote—only two voices being given
against it.
			RESOLUTION.
	WHEREAS, A bill has been introduced into 
the Senate of the United States, by Senator
Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, which pro-
poses to disfranchise the women of Utah and
to subject the women of all the Territories
to the provisions of the English Common
Law, as it existed before the Declaration of
Independence, therefore
	RESOLVED, That this assembly of men and
women of New England, convened in Fan-
euil Hall to celebrate the 100th anniversary
of the Boston Tea Party, hereby call upon
our Senators and Representatives in Con-
gress to secure the defeat of the bill.
	Col. Higginson congratulated the audience
that the vote was practically a unanimous
one. The two who voted against it were
very young men. Although the hour of ad-
journment had arrived, the audience would
not willingly disperse without hearing from
that brave and steadfast reformer, Stephen
S. Foster.
	Stephen S. Foster, said that the resistance
of the Colonists in 1773 was a plain violation
of the law of the land, and urged women
to resist the tyrannical laws of to-day which
deprive them of the ballot. He intended to
resist to the last the oppression resulting
from taxation without representation. He
had refused to pay taxes on his own proper-
ty, and had said to the officers of the law,
"I have paid the last cent of taxes volunta-
rily that I shall ever pay to a government
that puts its foot on the necks of my wife
and daughter."
	Mrs. Wallace sang the "Star Spangled
Banner," the assembly joining in the chorus,
after which the audience dispersed, leaving
the hall amid the inspiring strains of
"Yankee Doodle."


PRAYERS IN THE LEGISLATURE.

	The "Stockton Leader', says of the sit-
ting of the Legislature of California:
	The most interesting event in the Senate
was the debate upon the motion to elect a
Chaplain. Lane, of Santa Clara, did him-
self credit by opposing the system of pay-
ing for prayers, but "declared himself a be-
liever in the efficacy of prayer, and would 
gladly join any Senator in asking a blessing
from Almighty God. He believed that the
prayers of pious men and women which
went up in closets were of more efficacy than
prayers paid for at $5 a day." Of course
such old-fashioned Christianity as that was
too unpopular with our meek-minded Legis-
lators, and a Chaplain was duly elected at a
salary of $5 per diem.
`	We regret this, for the experiment was
well worth trying; to dispense with paid
prayers and invite the benevolent clergymen
of Sacramento, or the State at large to sup-
plicate the Throne of Grace in behalf of our
Representatives without hope of pecuniary
reward. It would have tested the zeal of
ministers who profess anxious solicitude for
the safety of the unsanctified; and beside it
might not be a waste of time—judging from
the record of Legislators in general—if the
prayers of two or three, or even a dozen holy
men should ascend daily in their behalf.


USELESS WOMEN.

	It is an unfailing theme—old as creation
—the faults of women!
	No doubt Adam harped on it rainy days,
when there was nothing to be done at gar-
dening, and perhaps he had some cause for
complaint, for every intelligent person will
admit that he was sadly taken in by that
metamorphosed rib of his.
	Now-a-days, wherever you go, you hear
the same doleful story.
	Young men are afraid to marry because
the young women are so useless. All they
are fit for is to dress up like dolls, and sit in
the parlor, and thrum the helpless piano.
	Well, who is to blame?
	Not the young ladies themselves, most
assuredly.
	Somebody says it is their mothers, but we
don't think so.
	Don't everybody know that the young
men of the present day want the young wo-
men to be useless! Don't they want them to
dress up and sit in the parlor! Don't they
praise their unsunned foreheads and their
lily hands and admire the sweep of  their 
silken trails, and the glitter of their jewel-
ry?
	The pretty talk that we hear sometimes
about girls helping their mothers in the
kitchen is beautiful on parper, but who ex-
pects anything of the kind from a young
lady?
	Baking bread, and coddling preserves, and
sweeping, and making beds are not condu-
cive to white hands and delicate complex-
ions; and when it comes to washing clothes
and scrubbing floors—why, good gracious!
that is all!
	Young men never go into kitchens to
watch their darlings make pies and black
stoves—anywhere out of novels; they don't
want to, and the girls don't want them to!
They all know that Maggie looks like any
scullion without her powder; and smut on
her face is not becoming; and sweat and
steam will take her hair out of curl; and
strawberries and peaches, however delicious
they may be to the palate, put one's finger
ends in hopeless mourning.
	No; the young man of the present day
when he calls on the young lady, expects to
sit in the softest corner of the sofa, and Mag-
gie is expected to bedressed like one of the
last fashion-plates, with at least twenty ruf-
fles on her dress, and a bustle as large as
Sallie's, or Jennie's, or Annie's, or else she
isn't stylish.
	You just listen a moment to the conversa-
tion of our young men as they smoke
their cigars in front of their club-room and
watch the ladies pass by.
	"There goes Miss B. Dused stylish-look-
ing girl; grooms her hair well; dresses in
elegant taste; plays a tip-top game of euchre,
too."
	"There comes Miss C. Drab and wine-
color; striking costume; got a handsome
foot, and not afraid to show it. By George!
a fellow needn't be ashamed to drive out
with such a stylish-looking woman!"
	When little Miss D. passes by in her plain
dress, with nobody's dingy hair on but her
own, and a hat full a year behind fashion, all
the "fellows" stare at her, and make remarks
about one's grandmother, and Noah's Ark,
and wonder Barnum isn't after her. Not
one of them says anything about the fact
that she is a sensible woman, and has spent
her life in the kitchen cooking and mending
for her father and half-a-dozen young broth-
ers and sisters. Oh, no. And yet men are
all the time crying out that they want sensi-
ble women for wives.
	Why dont they get them then?


﻿W O M A N ’ S   E X P O N E N T .


   AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.
				––––
			    AGENTS.
		         Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
  "	Margt. P. Young,	  "	Amanda Kimball
  "	Lily Staines,		  "	Elizabeth Davis,
  "	Sarah Smith,              "	Hampton, l6th
  "	Mary J.Thomson,			Ward,
  "	Margaret Steel,	  "	Sarah E. Smith,
		   Miss Sarah E. Russell.
		   CORRESPONDENTS.
Mrs. Laura Miner,		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
  "	A. B. Smith,		Miss Mary E. Cook.
			     AGENTS,
			Weber County,
  "	A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
		   Oneida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	  "	Mary Rich, Paris.
			   Rich County
	  "	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
	  "	Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
			  Cache County.
	  "	M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	  "	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
	  "	H. A. Shaw, Hyrum. 
		        Box Elder County.
	  "	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			   Davis County.
	  "	Mary Clark, Farmington, 
	  "	Aurelia Rogers,	"
	  "	Margaret Randell,Centreville,
	  "	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	  "	Susan Grant,		     "
	  "	Sylvia Clark,		     "
			Salt Lake County.
	  "	–––– Higgins,West Jordan,
	  "	Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot-
			tonwood.
			    Tooele County.
	Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
	Mrs. E. Clegg,			"	"
	Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
			     Utah County.
	  "	–––– Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	  "	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	  "	–––– Harrison,				   "
	  "	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
			     Juab County.
	  "	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi, 
	  "	Ann Pitchforth,		"
	  "	Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
	  "	Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
			     Sanpete County.
	  "	M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
			City,
	  "	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
	  "	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
	Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
	Mrs. Mary Thorpe, 		"
			     Millard County.
	  "	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
	  "	Belinda M. Pratt,	"
	Miss Mary Callister,	"
			     Beaver County.
	Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
	  "	L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
				Iron County.
	  "	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
	Miss Josephine Smith,   "
			       Kane County.
	Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
	  "	Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
		 Cedar City.
			Washington County.
	  "	Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
		St. George,
	  "	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.


The sensible girls of this generation will
mostly be old maids, because men go in for
the girls who giggle the most, who are dash-
ing, who sport the most false hair, and who
pad the most atrociously. And really it has
been so long since a real woman, as God made
her, has been in fashion, that we doubt if
the men of to-day would know to what spe-
cies she belonged if they should suddenly
behold her.
	Gentlemen say: "Oh, ladies ought to dress
with more simplicity!" and then they quote
Paul, etc.
	Suppose you try the sweet simplicity
dodge, young ladies, and go to a ball or a
party in the traditional scant-skirted white
muslin with blue ribbons, and your hair "au
naturel."
	You will have the pleasure of playing
wall-flower to the end of the chapter.
	If anybody thinks dress is of no conse-
quence, just let her get into a railway car
with a faded calico gown, and an old shawl,
and a last year's bonnet on. All the men
will be reading newspapers. They will be
very deeply absorbed. The papers that day
will be particularly interesting. Credit Mo-
bilier or the last murder trial farce will be
especially facinating. They will sit near
the end of the seat next the isle, and never
see you. You may stand there with your
arms full of packages, and shift from one
foot to the other, and stagger against their
backs at every lurch of the engine, until
the crack of doom, before any of these gen-
tlemen who are crying out for plainly dressed
women, will give you a seat.
	Next day you just go and dress up in
your new spring silk, with its frills and
flounces, and your stylish Dolman, and your
charming Paris hat, and your delicate gloves,
and your floating curls, and go into a rail-
way car, and half-a-dozen gentlemen will
forget that a newspaper ever existed, and
insist that they greatly prefer standing to
sitting.
	Don't we know? Haven't we tried it?
	Gentlemen, reform yourselves! If you
really desire women to be sensible, encour-
age them to be so. Have courage to be po-
lite to ladies who are not dressed in the
hight of fashion. Don't be forever talking
about style. Show the ladies by your con-
duct that you want them sensible, pure-
minded and useful, and you will have them
so, for they will do anything to please you.
					KATE THORN.


REMEMBER YOUR RELATIVES AND
			FRIENDS.

	There is an old and true saying, which runs as
follows: "No man knows what good friends are
worth until he lives without them."
	How soon some men forget this—good men, too,
who were once highly esteemed by their relatives
and friends for their loving kindness and consider-
ate ways. Men who have begun to change in this
way usually continue to grow worse, little by little,
until in the course of years they become so churl-
ish, that they are apt to disagree and quarrel with
almost everybody on the slightest provocation. In
fact, they cultivate a habit of ill-nature until it
seems as though it were impossible for them to act
in a friendly manner toward any one. In this way
such a man is pretty sure to alienate all his friends,
and at last find himself alone in the world.
	It is not only unfortunate but weak for a man to
fail to appreciate the value of good relations and
friends, and if he has fallen into the bad habit which
we have described, he should, by all means, try to
eradicate it, and always keep in mind the old saying,
"No man knows what good friends are worth until
he lives without them."—Solected.


﻿A young physician in Portland, Me., who
recently had come, as he said, from Rich-
mond,Va., attempted to poison a young lady
patient by giving her pills made of corrosive
sublimate. She was made violently ill, but
finally recovered. It is thought the physi-
cian is insane.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
		Electricity administered when cases requre.
	Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main 
Street. Office hours—10 a m. to 3 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.   
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.    	je15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.	
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	Books in All Branches of Literature and
Education will find at JAMES DWYER’S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand.  

		NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:

10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club  - 	-	-	-$18.00

15 copies, 1 year with a copy to the getter :
	up of the club	-	-	-	- 26 00

20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00

30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			  48 00

	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
