Vol. 2.   		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1873.		No. 5


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	TO “KILL time” without danger of disad-
vantage to self, use it up.
	TO GET rid of despondency, perplexity,
and the “blues,” think much of others but
as little as possible of self.
	NO WONDER brooks and rivers can afford
to dance and laugh constantly, and always
sing merry tunes—they have no "up-hill"
work to do.
	PHILADELPHIA has had a lightning
stroke which demolished some of the build-
ings and injured several inhabitants. Such
strikes as that are more to be feared than
those of desperate laborers.
	HIS ROYAL Highness, Prince Alfred
Earnest Albert, Duke of Edinburgh, and
second son of Her Majesty Queen Victoria,
it is announced is to marry a Russian Prin-
cess, the Grand Duchess Mary E. Alexand-
rovona.  And why not?  The Prince is
twenty-nine years old, and his "Mother” has
given her consent.
	SINCE the formation of the Worcester
StateNormal School,Massachusetts,four years
ago, forty-four young ladies have received
diplomas from that school. Forty years
ago, it would have seemed almost an
absurdity for a woman to make an attempt
to graduate at a high school. But woman
advances to the front.
	THE RAVAGES of the cholera in Evanston
Indiana, have been so intolerable as to
nearly depopulate the town, every one flee-
ing from the scourge who could, and vast
numbers perishing, from it. Out of some
large families, it is reported that not more
than two members have been spared alive.
Sympathy is awakened by such suffering
among fellow creatures.
	ONE OF the saddest stories contained In
modern history, is going the rounds of the
newspaper press, concerning a beautiful
maniac murderess of New York, known as
Kate Stoddard, but whose real name is
Lizzie L. King. She is said to have been
united by a mock marriage to Charles Good-
rich, who, after a few years, deserted her and
their baby. Maddened by his cruelty and
neglect, she is supposed to have fired the
fatal shot which ended his earthly career:
yet there hangs a mystery over the circum-
stance of the murder in which a man ly the
name of Roscoe is involved. 
	QUEEN VICTORIA thus answers an address
of the Commons, showing Her Majesty’s
queenly views and womanly feelings on the
subject of international arbitration; “I have
received the address of my faithful Com-
mons, praying that I would be graciously
pleased to instruct my principal secretary to
enter into communication with foreign
powers with a view to further improve in-
ternational law, and establish a general and
permanent system of arbitration.  I am
sensible of the force of the philanthropic
motive dictating that address. I have at all
times desired to extend the practice of
closing international controversies by their
submission to impartial friends, and to
encourage the establishment of rules in-
tended for the equal benefit of all. I shall
continue to pursue a similar course with
due regard to time and opportunity, where-
ever it is likely to be attended with advan-
[-]age."
[new column]
	THERE IS a lady in Plymouth by the name
of Southworth, who lately celebrated her
ninety-sixth birthday; and who in all her
life has neve employed a doctor or known
what it was to be seriously ill. She has
ever entertained a religious horror of idle-
ness, and still works busily for others as well
as herself; having this season spaded and
planted her own garden. This worthy old
lady has evidently been a prudent and wise
laborer, neither going too far and overwork-
ing herself, nor allowing her health to
decline for want of employment—following
none of the extremes so common to the
women of to-day.
	“THE BALANCE,” a woman’s paper pub-
lished in Chicago says in its issue for July:
“The editor of the Salt Lake City EXPONENT
was married on the 16th ult. We are not
informed whether she is Mrs. No. I or No.
12.  If it is a matter of congratulation, we
congratulate her.” We are pleased with
this opportunity for stating that had our
number, in entering upon the matrimonial
stage been Mrs. 2nd 3rd or 12th, we should
have been as prould and happy in acknow-
ledging the same as we are now in ac-
quainting our Chicago friend with the fact
that our position happens to be that of Mrs.
No. 1,—just the next thing to 0. But we
are satisfied—there must be No. 1’s, and
there must be 0’s too, but—poor things!
We hope that does not touch any of our
Chicago sister contemporaries, but are not
informed. Now, we suppose “it” is “a
matter of congratulation,” and that we may
accept the compliment.
	ENGLISH ARTISTS, it appears, are some
times badly treated, notwithstanding the
celebrity of that country for its appreciation
of poetic genius and artistic skill. An
enthusiastic writer on the subject says:
“The Royal Academicians distribute their
favors with a sublime disregard of merit,
and it is half suspected that they judge of
pictures by their knuckles rather than their
eyes. It is said that many of the most
eminent artists in England have had their
pictures rejected by the hanging committee.
Armstrong, Henry Moore, Hennessy, Story,
and even Whistler, are said to be among
the sufferers this year, and if such shall
prove to be the case, we shall have a row
in artistic circles such as has never been
known before. The Royal Academy has
not a history calculated to inspire great
confidence. Some of the magnificent pic-
tures of Turner, which have been eagerly
bought within the last year or so, at from
one thousand to five thousand pounds were
rejected by the Academy; others were badly
hung in the old darkened apartments; but
when the Academicians have been taunted
with thus throwing out of the music so long
frozen in the air by their neglect, they have
replied to the public that they allowed these
pictures to the number of two hundred and
fifty, to be taken away from the walls
because he could not get the small sums at
which he held them, until, during the last
years of his life, Ruskin proclaimed him a
great genius. However, the public affirm
that a royal academy is but a burden, unless
it lead the public taste; whereas, in the case
of Turner, David Cox, and others, it has
been, a follower of the public.  Nor has its
recent history been much better. It never
[new column]
recognized the genius of the late Georg 
Mason until he was dying. And recently
one of the most powerful, though very rea-
listic landscape painters (William Wilson),
died, whose works should have made him
an academician, but will now be sold to
maintain his family.”

	DRESS REFORM is occupying much of the
attention of sound minded women in differ-
ent parts of the world, and different opinions
on the subject are put forth for the consid-
eration of the masses. While some of our
American ladies hold that a woman’s cloth-
ing should, like that of a man’s, be suspended
from the shoulders, a lady in Manchester,
England, writes thus:  “In a man, the
shoulders are the broadest and strongest
parts of his body and his muscular develop-
ment is greatest there. But in a woman,
nature has provided for the burden incident to
womanhood by a great development of the
pelvis arch and surrounding muscles which
are larger than in man.  The center of
muscular and nervous force in a woman lies
in her hips; and weights bearing on the
pelvis arch can be carried more easily than
if they press on any other part of the body.
A woman’s shoulders are weak compared to
those of a man, and the burden of dress laid
upon them would be intolerably oppressive.
I speak from experience, as one whose aim
in dressing is to comply with conventional
requirements at the minimum of inconveni-
ence, and I find that light soft skirts, rest-
ing on the hips and supported by the pelvis
arch, and loose upper clothing that does not
drag from the shoulder or restrict the
freedom of the arms, fulfils the desired
conditions and combines comfort with ele-
gance.” In partial contrariety to this, one
of a committee on dress, of New England
ladies says: “I have said, in referring to our
plan of proceeding, that it seemed to us neces-
sary to define explicitly the evils we deplore,
before seeking their remedies. Of course,
we should all agree that our attire ought
first of all to be healthful; then it should be
beautiful, serviceable, and simple. Tried
by this standard, our present dress is most
unsatisfactory. And, first, it violates health
by its compression of vital parts of the body;
by its weight and the faulty suspension of
this weight; and by the unequal temperature
which it induces. Health would say, “if
your dress is to be tight, let it be tight any-
where but over the region between the
upper, ribs and the hips. If its weight
is to be great, let it hang from the
solid frame work of the shoulders, not from
the sensitive central region where there is
nothing to support it; if any part is to be
overheated, let it be the extremities, and
not this. For here lie the vital organs
whose unimpeded action is essential to your
very life,—the lungs, the heart, the liver,
the stomach and the abdomen, that they
may have the fullest opportunity to expand
and move, they are covered only with loose
flesh and a few moveable bones.” Both
positions are worth reflecting upon, to
women of sense who desire health and
happiness; and the conviction doubtless will
be, of most of them, that the dress should not
be tight, anywhere, and that the weight
suspended from any portion of the body
should be light as possible.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the EXPONENT.
					﻿GRIM DUTY.

		Duty's pathway leads away
		Toward the rising sun;
		The misty morning shadows gray
		Enfold the mountins dun;
		Their hoary peaks long shadows throw,
		Quaint echos dwell among,
		Deep hidden vales send from below
		Wild waters’ ringing song.

		But though the way seems lone and rough,
		'Tis but to waken z al
		In those whose love is warm enough
		True ardor’s fire to feel.
		Though clouds may lower and thunders roar 
		The timid to affright,
		Fa r faith breathes calmly evermore, 
		“Byond this all is light.”

		And Duty’s self, so seeming grim
		Looks ever to the sun;
		Her face is not by pilgrims seen
		Until the goal is won;
		Kike carven stone she pointing stands,
		Unheeding anguished cries;
		The rod she holds in ridgid hands, 
		Affrights the pleading eyes.

		Imagination flutters near,
		Each plain thing to distort,
		To change high courage into fear,
		To smite each heavy heart,
		To paint all things in darkest shade,
		To magnify all ills,
		To bid all hopeful visions fade
		And break the bravest wills. 

		The pearly shades of infant morn 
		Appear foreboding gloom;
		The joyous echoes, sound forlorn
		As wailings o’er a tomb;
		The deeptoned thunder’s mighty peal—
		Majestic voice of power,
		The false one saith are raging fiends
		Wayfarers to devour.

		The gurgling waters in the vales.
		She saith are roaring floods;
		The softly sighing upland gales,
		Storms not to be withstood;
		The gentle slopes appear too steep
		For weary feet to tread,
		And shadows sweet, by mounds asleep,
		Like precipices dread.

		The rustle cool of smmer leaves
		seems like a serpent’s hiss.
		The kind caress which friendship gives,
		A very Judas kiss.
		She weaves her spell for human woe, 
		To turn them from the way,
		That they may not triumphant go
		Through to the land of Day. 

		And busily she flits between
		Weak human eyes and faith
		In duty, who, if fairly seen,
		Is not a mocking wraith
		Delighting in her foll’wers pain
		And smiting with her rod,
		But promising eternal gain
		And pointing up to God.

			And those who follow her sure guide
		Unto the utmost height,
		Behold, entranced, the prospect wide—
		The source of living light,
		The risen sun, the perfect day,
		The glorious halo thrown
		Around the toiler who can say 
		“My work is nobly done.”

		And Duty’s face, with smiles aglow,
		Now meets his ’raptured gaze—
		A “scepter” is the rod she bore!
		And pleasant look the ways
		Which had before so dreadful seemed
		As faintly he toild on;
		The full light sparkles on the streams
		Which sang through misty dawn,
		How vain! how needless were his fears!
		How blind his groping eyes!
		How false that everything was drear
		Which wore sweet duty’s guise!
		A shining angel, there she stands,
		Endowed with beauties rare,
		And points the way with tireless hands,
		To those who struggle there.

		O, Pilgrims! heed the faithful guide 
		Who will so kindly lead
		Your footsteps up the mountain side 
		From fancied terrors freed.
		The mornig breaks, the sun appears,
		No gloom before him dwells;
		Be steadfast through the night of tears
		Which mornig light dispels.
									LU DALTON


R. S. REPORTS.

	Report from Lehi, July 11th 1873: Our
Society is still prospering; the sisters are
united, not only in helping the poor at home,
but alsp doing their best to assist the poor
brethren and sisters in other lands, that
they may come and enjoy some of the bless-
ings we enjoy in these peaceful valleys.
The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor among
us, and we wish more of the sisters could
realize its value. 
	REBECCA STANDRING, Secretary.

	The following comes to hand from Rich-
mond, bearing date July 3rd, 1873; The
Richmond Relief Society was organized
June 4th 1868. We held our annual meet-
ing June 4th the present season and found
our donations to the poor had been liberal,
besides donations to the P. E. Fund and
other purposes, in the last year. We have
"working bees" in Richmond as well as
quiet, listless ones who only attend to their
own household duties and leave the cares of
the Society to the few who are willing to 
work for their own interest and that of the
Kingdom of God. Accept, sincerely our
best wishes in behalf of your worthy enter-
prise
			SARAH ANN MERRILL, Prest.
			BETSY BROWER, Secretary.

			SOUTH COTTONWOOD WARD
						July 15th, 1873
	The following is a brief synopsis of the
minutes of our fourth annual meeting, held
May 17, 1873. Singing, "Arise my soul
arise." Prayer by Bishop Rawlins. Sing-
ing, "How beautious are their feet." The
minutes of the previous meeting were read
and accepted; also accounts of receipts and
disbursements for the year ending May 17th,
1873, which made a very favorable showing.
The Bishop, brother Rawlins, and his
Counselors were present, also sister Kimball
and sister Zina Young from Salt Lake City,
and other sisters from the adjoinging wards
who offered good instrucitons and encourag-
ing words. The spirit of the meeting was
to impress upon the minds of the sisters,
the importance of each one seeking diligently
to carry out the commandments of God,
given in words of ocunsel by President
Brigham Young. They were advised to
take an interest in saving their rags and
assissting to make their own books and
papers, unitedly commencing and maturing
those plans suggested by President Young.
The EXPONENT was also spoken of favorably
and the sisters were advised to aid in sus-
taining it. The subject of educating
children,the way to bring them up in the
ways of truth and righteousness, was treated
upon. All were counseled to have their
children learn some good trade; the boys to
learn stone cutting, farming carpentering,
blacksmithing, and any other good and useful
trade; and the girls to be taught type set-
ting, how to print, dressmaking and such
suitable works. The Bishop said the sisters
were to go ahead in the great work they
had commenced and he would give them en-
couragement and help them all he could.
The President, Sister Cahoon, is a good,
faithful Saint, striving to carry out and 
perform all the duties belonging to her.
The sisters are united in good feelings and
are striving to do all they can to prove they
know that it is woman's portion to be full of
charity, to seek out the oppressed, the ppor
the widoe and the orphan and impart to
them of her substance. The meeting was
adjourned untill the second Thursday in
June at one o'clock. Singing "The Spirit of
God like a fire is burning." Benediction by
Brother Maxfield.
	Counselor MRS. ANN E. LABRUM, Secre-
tary.

	At Ogden, July 10th, 1873, Professor
Monch’s School Examination and the meet-
ing of the Relief Society being held the
same day, it was thought best by President
F. D. Richards, that they should unite and
both lx conducted in the City Hall.
	The ladies of the Society met at two
o’clock. Also some of the leading men of
Ogden. The classes of the school were
brought in in their respective orders under
the supervision of the Professor. Much of
the reciting was done in consert, in a man-
ner highly creditable to both Teacher and
scholars. After the recitations of the
classes, the audience listened with much
interest to the singing of some of the girls
and a declamation by Mr. C. Richards, which
were promptly and well executed. Also a
piece, “The Modocs,” by a young gentle-
man which deserved credit. A dialogue
was read by Mr. Brown and Miss Hill with
spirit and energy and received much ap-
plause. The “School Paper” was read by
Miss Delecta Ballantyne. Remarks were
made by President F. D. Rishards, W. W.
Burton, D. H. Peery and others; expressing
pleasure and satisfaction with the afternoon’s
entertainment, also congratulating Professor
Monch on his success and abilities as a
Teacher. Professor Monch made some ap-
propriate remarks to his scholars and vistors.
He has been energetic and untiring- in
establishing a first class school in Ogden;
and deserves the warmest thanks of the
residents of that place.
	The afternoon exercises were closed with
prayer by President F. D. Richards. 
	The scholars were left in charge of their
Teacher, and the Society under the direction
of Mrs. J. S. Richards, President, to trans
act any necessary business. The meeting
of the Society was adjourned for two weeks.
								A. M. F.


	From Nephi. Editor Woman’s Ex-
ponent,—June 23rd was the day for our
annual meeting, but owing to the house
being occupied, our meeting was postponed
till the 28th, when we met according to
adjournment. Order was called by Counse-
lor Elizabeth Kendall; after singing and
prayer, many good remarks were made by
the brethren and sisters present, exhorting
all to faithfulness and diligence and en-
couraging all in every good word and work.
Our financial report shows that we are pro-
gressing but slowly; still we are trying to do
the best we can, not only in worldly matters
but also in trying to give a word of advice
to those who are in need. We realize that
it is the faithful few who will gain the
promised blessings, while the larger portion
neglect the duties that belong to them, and
seem to think them of miner consequence.
Sucli must inevitably come short of obtaining
the glory that the faithful will attain ito.
Our much loved President is upheld and
sustained by her counselors, the Board of
Teachers, Secretary and Treasurer, with
many more faithful sisters in the Society
AMELICA GOLDS BROUGH, President.
ELIZABETH KENDALL, 
JANE PICTON,		Counselors
A. L. BIGLER, Secretary, 
SARAH ANN ANDREWS, Treasurer.

	Report of the Fifth Annual Meeting of
the Relief Society of Wellsvillo, Cache Co.,
July 11th, at 2 o’clock p. m. Bishop William
Maughan with several other brethren, and
President Mrs M. A. Maughan of Logan


City were present. The financial report for
the year was read and approved.  We have
given to the needy, one hundred dollars and 
seventy cents, and have three shares in
the Co-operative Mercantile store, four
shares in the Co-operative Milliners store and
a balance in the Treasury of two hundred
and thirty-five dollars and eighty-five cents.
Bishop Wm. Maughan said he was very
thankful to the sisters for their labors since
the organization of the Society, and hoped
they would continue in doing good; spoke
of the great privileges they enjoyed and
gave good counsel.  Sister M. A. Maughan
said she would exhort the sisters to faithful-
ness, to attend meetings regularly and be
diligent in attending to the wants of the
poor.  Several of the brethren made encourag-
ing remarks.  All present seemed to be
satisfied with the meeting, and we con-
cluded our Fifth Anniversary with a party
in the evening which was a decided success.
MRS. ELLEN WHITON, President,
MRS. MARGARET WOODWARD,
MRS. MARTHA HOWELL,         }Counselors,
MRS. MARIA PARKINSON, Secretary, 
MRS. ANN JONES, Treasurer.
		    _____
		CENTERVILLE, June 21st, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At our first meeting of the Relief Society,
after receiving notice, we took a vote which
was unanimous, to drop the word “Female”
from our Relief Society.
				 M. C. Adams, Secretary.
				    —
	The 62nd meeting of the Senior and
Junior Co-operative Retrenchment Associ-
ation of Salt Lake City, was held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms on the afternoon of
Saturday, July 17th, 1873, presided over by
Mrs. M. I. Horne, President.  After the
usual ceremonies of singing, prayer and
reading of the minutes, Sister Horne made
remarks: She presumed all present felt the
same as she did, rejoiced at having Sister
Snow again in our midst. They all had heard
what President Young had counseled at
the April Conference in relation to women
and girls being taught to set type and learn-
ing to prepare their own school books,
nothing yet had been done in the matter,
but it was desired that the Presidents of
Relief Societies should ascertain who in
their Wards would come forward and learn
to set type as a stepping-stone to greater
things.  The Retrenchment girls were as
reliable as any the speaker knew of.
	Counselor Mrs.  B.  W.  Smith said the
President had suggested to her that three
women from each Ward in the city be
chosen to form a class for studying physi-
ology and obstetrics.  Also that one woman
from each settlement be sent to the city to
study the same branches, and that the
Bishops see that such women be supported.
	Counselor Z.  D.  Young said she would
like to have the Spirit of the Lord, that what
she said might go to the hearts of her sisters.
They should all consider themselves mission-
aries in the Kingdom, the things which had
been suggested were not trifles, they were
principles that meant “work,” and must be
laid hold of in- earnest.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow made remarks. She
was looking upon a congregation belonging
to a people who were blessed above all
others on the face of the earth: she felt
more honored than she had done when
walking through princely palaces. When
she looked at the superstition of the world,
she thought if the sisters could realize their
high position and be awake to their duties,
they would, many of them, be more ener-
getic and seek more for faith and unity.
Was thankful that so many were proving
[new column]
themselves faithful.  It was hard, some-
times, to convince persons who had been
prejudiced against the Mormons, that they
did not know more about the people here, 
and their doings, than those who had been
associated with them for forty years; they
would have it that the women of Utah were 
enslaved and trodden down. She had many
times remarked to gentlemen of the press
that no where on earth had women so broad
a sphere of action or so much liberty as in
Utah.  She remarked to an editor in New
York that it was disgraceful for men like
himself, whom people looked to and had right
to look to for enlightenment and the truth,
to publish so many falsehoods about a people
so well known as were the Mormons; there
was no excuse for their doing so, any one
might learn the truth of a people so much
talked about. She was ashamed of the
American press. She wished the sisters to
appreciate the freedom they had, and when
a convention was held for the purpose of
electing officers all the women should go
and join their votes. Each of their votes
counted one the same as that of any
man, of however great importance. She
was proud of her sisters, those who were
seeking to know and perform their duties
in assisting to build up the Kingdom of
God; urged upon them the necessity of their
being studious and active, and encouraging
and strengthening each other; thanked and
blest them all for their kind faith made
manifest in her behalf, and the love they
had shown her.  Hoped they would all be
on hand to help carry out the requirements
which had been made of them.
	Some business matters were attended to,
after which meeting adjourned for two
weeks; dismissed with singing, and prayer
by Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young.
					M. M. Groo, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

  Keeping Children Busy: These rest-
less little mortals are quiet only when they
are asleep, and often not even then, for in
dreams they are playing croquet, or gallop-
ing on horseback, or fondling their dolls.
They need playthings just as much as they
require bread and milk, and shoes and
clothes. Many parents, thinking they can-
not afford time or money to provide amuse-
ment and occupation for their little ones,
leave them to shift for themselves and hunt
up their own toys. So Jhonnie gets into
mamma’s bureau or closet, and enjoys the
muss he makes there more than he sorrows
over the punishment that follows it. As he
grows older, jack-knife and foot rule, ham-
mer and saw, gimlet and drawing knife,
screw driver and pinchers, will be in requi-
sition to make his bows and arrows, his
ships and carts. Little Susie will take her
mamma’s needles and thread, her buttons
and scissors, and leave her work basket in
sad disorder unless all these article are
given to Susie for her own special use. With
a work-box and needle book, a pair of scis-
sors, and occasional supervision of her
mother, Susie may gradually be initiated
into all the mysteries of darning, overseam-
ing, hemming, and back stitch. We all
know that children are very anxious to do
what they cannot do, but this inclination,
which is frequently quite annoying, may be
turned to good account. Instead of driving
them away, let them be taught the difficul-
ties of what they wish to undertake, the
best way of overcoming them, and let them
lend a helping hand In doing the coveted
thing till they can be intrusted to do it
alone. Every boy should learn the use of
tools, and be able to drive a nail properly,
[new column]
to push the saw and shove the plane, to
make a button for a door, and exercise his
ingenuity in the manufacture of hanging
baskets, brackets, rustic benches, sleds and
bows. Though what he does may be a
failure, it may lead to ultimate success.-Ex.
  Tender Feet. The following is said to
be a remedy for tender feet: One table-
spoonful of carbonate of soda disolved in a
half pint of cold water. The feet are to be
sponged with the solution night and morn-
ing.
Potash Water is the quickest cure for
wasp stings: a small quantity should be kept
in a glass-stoppered bottle. Open the sting
with a needle, and put on one drop of the
potash water.
Cure for Sore Throat.—Mix a quarter
of an ounce of saltpeter, finely pulverized,
with three ounces of pure honey. Dilute it
with vinegar, and use it as a gargle. Or
take a small spoonful of it into the mouth
occasionally and let it disoive slowly.
Cement for Filling Cracks in Furni-
ture.—Moisten a piece of recently burnt
lime with enough water to make it fall to
powder; mix one part of the slaked lime
with two parts of rye flour, and a sufficient
quantity of boiled linseed oil to form it into
a thick plastic mass.
To mend China, take a thick solution
of gum arabic in water, and stir it into
plaster of Paris, until the mixture is of a
proper consistency. Apply to the fractured
edges of the China, and stick them together.
In three days the articls cannot be broken
in the same place. The whiteness of the
cement renders it doubly valuable.
The following rule for churning will seem
an absurdity to many, but it is given by an
experienced dairy tender: The night before
churning, put the cream in a tin to stand in
a furnace of warm water, which should gradu-
ally reach boiling heat, until the cream is
scalding hot, stirring it occasionally while
it is heating. Then take the tin out of the
water, pour the cream into another vessel,
and let as much as possible of the steam
from it escape. Stir it also once or twice
while cooling; keep it in a warmer tempera-
ture than in the dairy until churned next
morning. This removes all disagreeable
taste from any kind of food taken by the
cows, and was never known to fail in mak-
ing good butter come in from twenty to forty
minutes’ churning.


﻿A widow lady sitting beside a cheerful fire
in a meditative mood, shortly after her hus-
band's decease, sighed out, “Poor fellow!
How he did like a good fire! I hope he has
gone where they always keep good fires.”
	Young mother: “Don’t” give the baby
soothing syrup. When he cries undress
him and rub him gently all over. Give
him plenty of room to kick and expand.
We are afraid you fasten his clothes too
tightly. Give him clear cold water freely
this hot weather. He won’t need medicine
if you don’t overwork yourself and will
abstain from nostrums and late hours, and
will indulge plentifully in plain, nutritious
food. Mush and milk and graham bread
and butter will make better food for the
baby both in quality and quantity than all
the tea and ale and beer and other slops you
can swallow. Learn a lesson from the cows
that roam the prairies and the calves that
play in the barn-yard. Your baby needs no
more nostrums than your calf and you need
beer and other slops of the kind just as badly
as old brindle does, and no worse. Don’t
get angry. We only mean what we say.
—“New North West.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

			    L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 	Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City. 
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
		
		SALT LAKE CITY, August 1, 1873.


SPLINTERS.

	Copenhagen is agitated over the presence
of an American woman, who claims con-
nection by marriage, with the royal house
of Denmark and Great Britain......A Mis-
souri Marshal has a young lady in custody
who has for two years, off and on, passed for
a boy. She was arrested for horse stealing,
but her virtue is unquestionable......Taxpay-
ing women of New York have had an
indignation meeting in consequence of the
adverse decision of Judge Hunt in the Susan
B. Anthony case......Rebecca W. Eastbrook,
a well known writer for Harpers Monthly
and other periodicals, died July 11th..........
Victoria Woodhull is convalescent and has
been for some time hard at work again in
the purlieus of high places......The wardrobe
of a theatrical performer in St. Louis was
recently seized and sold on account of a
failure on his part to fulfill a contract for
playing......A number of counties in Ohio,
Indiana, and Illinois have lost by recent
storms as high as $100,000 each......Frank
Walworth has been taken to Sing Sing.......
In Alcoy, Spain, three thousand factory
hands have struck for less hours and higher 
wages......The Lincoln club of New York
has ordered a copy of the bust of Horace
Greeley, lately furnished by Miss Edmonia
Lewis, and greatly admired......Records of
crime and calamities fill more columns than
all other subjects.......Mile Beccari, an Italian
lady, is the editor of the Woman’s Rights
paper published at Venice......London has
opened a laboratory for the use of ladies
studying experimental chemistry.........M.
Faure of Paris, has had a sale of pictures,
which brought him the sum of half a mil-
lion francs......The Chinese have a custom
of throwing rice after a newly made bride.
......The Malta opera house has been de-
stroyed by fire......The Right Rev. Samuel
Wilberforce fell from his horse and broke
his neck, while riding with Earl Granville,
in London, recently......An attempt to assas-
sinate a French Marshal while he was walking
on the grounds of his villa at Birrittz, was
made a few days since, but was not success-
ful, the guilty party being arrested......On
the gulf coast of Mexico, the yellow fever is
making sad ravages......Judge Wright, of
Washington is charged with having nine-
teen times, misappropriated money which
was put in his hands for Indian purposes.
......Kate Stodard of New York, arrested for
the murder of Charles Goodrich, is said to
be a beautiful woman, wan and weary look-
ing, with pensive blue eyes and golden
tresses......A Chinaman in San Francisco,
whose washhouse was broken into by
rioters, fired three revolver shots among
them, when they fled in dismay, not being
prepared for such a reception......Vera Cruz
has caught the cholera......In Virginia the
school population is 411,021, of whom
247,002 are white.......Mr. and Mrs. Fleming,
of San Francisco, have sued the California
Pacific Rail Road Company for $25,000, for
a son of theirs being killed through the
carelessness of an agent on the road......The
Captain of a ship, lately landed on the
pacific coast, has had to pay $17,000 for
bringing a number of Chinamen more than
the size of the vessel allowed and $50 more
for ill treatment to one of his seamen......A Mr.
Richardson is exploring Vancouver Island,
with a view to the ultimate construction of
a branch railroad to Albernia......It appears
that the medical virtues of fish oil for lung
complaint have been known among the
Chinese for centuries, but they make use of
the chad instead of the codfish........A new
method for making boot and shoe heels
has been invented by a man of Leeds,
England; it will be well if they are to be
formed in a more common-sense style than
those in use at present......A man in Califor-
nia walked off the Railroad Exchange in
his sleep and woke up fifteen feet below;
his injuries were severe, probably fatal......
Cincinnati, Ohio, will have an Industrial
Exposition to open, September 3rd and
close October 4th......A Louisville policeman
named Gannon recently shot his wife, kil-
ling her almost instantly......An extensive
collection and preparation of mosses, made
by the late William S. Sullivant was
bequeathed to Harvard University........
Phineas Allen, Jr., for many years the
editor of the Pittsfield, Mass., “Sun,” died
in that town on the Fourth of July. The
“Sun” which was established in 1800, was
founded by and preserved in the Allen family
for a period of seventy-two years.....A Balti-
more machinist, Thomas Winans, is build-
ing for his private music hall, a gigantic
organ, to be worked by steam power and
tended to far surpass the great organ of Boston.
The Newton gas well, discovered last year, six
miles from Titusville, Pa., issues at the rate of
three millions of cubic feet of gas every ay of
twenty-four hours; it is pronounced the
greatest gas well in the world......It has been
discovered that tin possesses many considera-
tions of fitness for stopping carious teeth,
not held in gold........A fossil corn shuck was
lately found in Missouri, 30 feet below the
surface, imbedded in clay......Some of the
women lecturers on the Pacific coast are
taking strong grounds against Chinese im-
migration.......The real name of Kate Stod-
dard, the alleged murderess, is Lizie L.
King.


LADIES’ ASSOCIATIONS.

	A PLEA FOR THEIR HOLDING MEETINGS.

Not unfrequently do we hear such expressions
as the following, from the lips of unreflecting
ladies, more especially the young and noncha-
lant. “I think a woman’s place is at home,
looking after her own affairs, instead of being
off at these meetings.”
	However, these thoughts do not appear to
trouble them while they are “somewhere else,”
gossiping, perhaps, or idling precious time
away in some light manner.
	The questions may be propounded with pro-
priety, have such ladies ever attended the
meetings, held hy the Relief Societies and
Retrenchment Associations, in this city and
the settlements throughout the Territory? Have
they any ideas concerning the teachings given,
or the benefits to be derived from the many
wise suggestions made by women of experience
and profundity? Benefits in all forms which
the gaining of understanding comprises. Do
they realize that by attending these meetings,
they may learn in a few moments time, things
that may prove to be of the greatest value to
them at some future period? Or receive some
intimation that may help them out of present
difficulties if they happen to be in them?
	All young children are liable to take cold
and be choked with croup. If a child be so
afflicted whose mother attended the Retrench-
ment meeting where a remedy for it was stated,
that little one is spared the pain of suffocation
for the seemingly long time it would take to
send for “grandma” or “auntie.” For its
mother knows as well as another, that pulver-
ized alum mixed with honey and given to her
child, and a piece of thick brown paper satu-
rated with oil and placed upon the lungs, will
afford it relief. Then, there is so much time,
trouble and suffering, and probably the life of
an infant saved by a mother’s having gone to
meeting. 
	She might have learned so simple a lesson at
home, had some one chanced to acquaint her
with it. But it should be remembered that
while she was learning it at meeting, a hun-
dred others, perhaps, were learning it at the
same time, who otherwise might never have
heard of it.
	“The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
wisdom.” Does a woman, professing to belong
to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, manifest fear of offending the Lord
when she treats lightly the commandments
which He gives for the guidance of His people,
through the mouths of His Prophets? When
cast down and troubled in spirit, can she go to
Him for strength and consolation, with the
same faith she might have enjoyed had she 
joined with her sisters in seeking wisdom from
the only proper source, and given a portion of
her time to instruct and bless others? All may
seem bright and fair with her at times, but it
will not always be so. And when her trials
and temptations come, she can call on others
for aid and sympathy much more graciously
if she has imparted freely of the light with
which she was blest formerly. Or if she has
associated much with intelligent women possess-
ing the Spirit of God and full of integrity,
holding sweet counsel with them, and treasur-
ing up wisdom, she will be better prepared to
sustain herself and to assist others in hours of
adversity.
	Want of time is the excuse made by many
for neglecting these important social duties; but
time is saved more frequently than lost by
observing them.
	“Work! work! work!” has been too long a
motto not clearly understood. Labor is honor-
able in all, but not constant, unmitigated
drudgery, performed with the idea of laying up
treasures and amassing a fortune.
	Application to work is healthful training for
every individual. But there should be a diver-
sity of employment; and there is no better
change of work for woman, than that from
household cares and duties, to social industry,
of an instructive and enlivening character,
such as will aid in all other labors, cheering
and blessing, and quickening all the faculties,
so that after requirements are performed with
greater ease and more satisfaction.


﻿SALUTATION TO THE LADIES OF
				UTAH.

		SALT LAKE CITV, July 14, 1873.
Beloved Sisters in the faith of the Gospel of the
Son of God:
	It is impossible for me to express the joy and
gratitude of my heart, in being once more in
your midst; in the gathering place of the
honest of heart. While absent, I have ever
felt a degree of pride and thankfulness, that
my home was in Utah—in the valleys of the
Rocky Mountains of America. Whatever
others, in their ignorance might imagine, we
“know,” that in Utah, are associated the best
and noblest spirits that are tabernacled in the


flesh—that here, the highest order of intelli-
gence is obtained, and society organized in a
purer and more perfect form than anywhere
else on earth.
	With what sacred feelings I now realize that
I am at home, surrounded by, and associated
with the Saints of God, many of whom I have
already met with warm, affectionate greetings,
and now avail myself of the medium of the Ex-
ponent, our excellent household paper, for
extending to many others, with whom oppor-
tunities may not soon admit of personal
interviews, my most cordial greeting, accom-
panied with love and blessing.
	Thanks, my dear Sisters, for your faith and
prayers, through which, in a great measure, I
attribute the blessings of God in the wonderful
prosperity which, from first to last, attended
the party of tourists, of which I have the
honor of having been a member. We have
traveled twelve thousand miles by water, and
nearly or quite, thirteen thousand by land,
without accident, and without a single failure
in making connection, either with steamer or
railroad; and safely home.
	What an honor to be associated with those
who are co-workers with God in establishing a
Government of peace and purity! The more I
see of the world, the more I realize the necessity
of a more perfect form of Government than
exists among the nations of the earth; and how
gratifying it is to a sympathizer with oppressed
humanity, to “know” that God has now intro-
duced His own authority and is establishing
His Kingdom, and that all who will, have the
privilege of assisting in this great work. A
work of the most important interest to the
living and the dead—one which confers on
living men and women, the highest possible,
responsibilities.
	While abroad I often encountered the absurd
idea, which many seem unwilling to relinquish,
that here, woman is held in a state of vassalage
—“down-trodden,” etc., etc., to which I invari-
ably, opposed the “fact” that nowhere on earth,
woman has as large responsibilities, and wields
as much influence as with the Latter-day
Saints. You, my Sisters, who are awake to
your callings and your duties, will readily sub-
scribe to the foregoing; while perhaps, a few,
who have no other thought of the object of their
present existence, than that they are born to be
idle curiosities, or playthings of human life—to
trifle away time in selfish vanity; see no good
and noble position for woman to qualify herself
to fill; and make light of the most important
labors.
	We know that inasmuch as we labor for the
Kingdom of God, our reward is sure, though all
else should perish. Let us work on—laboring
for "the things which make for peace,” faith,
hope, charity and perseverence in the path of
perfection, until we shall be prepared for the
presence of holy beings.
	Your Sister in the New and Everlasting
Covenant, 
						Eliza R. Snow.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE COMING FAIR

	The Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society, offers suitable premiums for the finest 
specimens of workmanship and home industry
which may be presented at the Territorial Fair,
to be held in this city on the days of the 2nd, 
3rd, 4th 6th, 7th and 8th of October next; a
considerable portion of which are designed to
particularly interest the ladies and aid in
eliciting their broadest endeavors to do their
best in assisting to render the forthcoming
occasion a brilliant success.
	The following are lists of prizes intended for
﻿best specimens of work mostly performed by
ladies, accompanied by names of committees:

		CLASS T.—Ladies’ Work.
Supervisory Committee.—ENOCH REESE.

		AWARDING COMMITTEE,
Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs. W. B. Wilkin-
son, Mrs. S. Young, Mrs. Merinda Hyde,
Mrs. Bulah A. Beattie, Mrs. L. W. Rich-
		ards, Miss M. E. Cook.

Best collection of useful and ornamental
	articles produced by any Relief So- 
	ciety..........................Diploma
"  		specimen of ornamental needle-
	work .....................................................$2 00
“  	specimen of Ayrshire needle work.........2 00
“  	ottoman cover ........................................2 00
“  	worked lace collar..................................2 00
“ 	worked cushions.....................................2 00
“ 	specimen of silk embroidery,.................3 00
“ 	specimen of worsted embroidery...........2 00
“ 	crochet work.........................................  2 00
Best knit work................................... ..........  2 00
“	specimen bead work..............................2 00
“      "  of tatting..,..........................................2 00
“.     " braiding...............................................2 00
“      " of transferred needle work..................2 00
“ 	specimen toilet mats,.............................2 00
“     "      lamp        ".......................................2 00
“ 	fancy card basket,..................................2 00
The most neatly dressed doll by a girl
	under 14 years.......................................3 00
The best specimen hand sewing, by a girl
	under 14 years.......................................2 00
The best specimen of darning, by a girl
	under 15 years of age,...........................2 00
Best display of dress making,...................... 3 00
"        "          "   millinery,.............................3 00
" 	suit of boy’s clothes,................... .......  3 00
“	patch-work quilt.................................  3 00
“	woolen quilt.......................... ............  2 00
“	white quilt,.........................................  3 00
“	ladies straw hat, .......... .....................  2 00
“	gent’s straw hat,.................................  2 00
“	ladies straw bonnet, .............. ...........  3 00
“	assorted straw braids,     ..... .............  2 00
"	vase of wax flowers...... ...................  3 00
“	boquet of wax flowers,......................  2 00
"	colored artificial flowers,..................  2 00
“	shell work,.........................................  3 00
“	woolen socks,....................................  1 00
“	cotton socks,.....................................  1 00

		CLASS U.—Produce.

SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE. - JOHN READ-
				ING.

		Awarding Committee,
	Myron Tanner, Daniel Grenig,
		   Robert Campbell.
Best cheese one year old and not over
	two, ................................................... 8 00
“	cheese under one year old, ............... 5 00
"	and largest display of cheese.......Diploma
"	lot of ten pounds of butter in rolls....  5 00
“	tub or firkin of butter not less than
“	twenty-five pounds and three months
“	old ....................................................  5 00
“	and largest display of butter.......Diploma
“	four loaves of baker’s bread, not less
“	than 48 hours old, ....... ....................  2 00
“	butter crackers, five pounds,.............  2 00
“	sweet soda biscuits,...........................  2 00
Best bread made by a girl under 16 years
	old,........................ ...........................  2 00
"	domestic corn bread made by a girl
  	under 16 years old,........ ................... 2 00
"	domestic white bread made by a girl
	under 16 years old,...........................  2 00
"	one quart from ten quarts of wine,.... 3 00


﻿THE GENERAL ELECTION.

	A Convention composed of gentlemen and
ladies was held in this city on the 19th ult., for
the purpose of nominating candidates for Coun-
selors to the next Legislative Assembly,
and also other officers to be elected at the forth-
coming general eletion. A committee of
nine, comprising seven gentlemen and two
ladies, after consultation, presented for candi-
dates the following names which the Conven-
tion unanimously accepted.
	For Commissioners to locate University lands:
John Van Cott, Lewis S. Hills and John Row-
berry.


﻿For Counselors: Wilford Woodruff, William
Jennings, William H. Hooper and John T.
Caine.
	For Selectman for Salt Lake county. E. M.
Weiler.
	For Coroner for Salt Lake county: George J.
Taylor.
	Appropriate speeches were made by Messrs. E.
L. Sloan and George Q. Cannon. We do not go so
far on the woman suffrage qeuestion as does Hen-
ry Ward Beecher; that is, to say that it should be
not only the right but the duty of women to
vote, and if any woman does not want to vote
she should be compelled to do so. But we
think those women of Utah act wisely, who
seek to understand, and show their appre-
ciation of the rights granted them. And on
Monday next, the 4th inst., which is the day
appointed for General Election throughout the
Territory, every woman who has arrived at
the proper age specified for voting, should go to
the polls, taking care she does not get tricked
by any plan which may be laid for the decep-
tion of the inexperienced and unsuspecting,
and vote the People’s Ticket.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	Mrs. M. J. Woodward, writing from Foun-
tain Green, Sanpete County, informs us that in
that vicinity good health and a good spirit
generally prevails; the meetings held by the
home missionaries being well attended. Crops,
this season, are going to be light there.
	No Public notice was paid to the Twenty-
sixth Anniversary of the entrance of th[-] Pio-
neers into the valley of the Great Salt Lake, by
the people of this city. Yet, due respect was
shown to the never-to-be-forgotten day, as it
was generally observed as a holiday, and passed
off in a peaceful and orderly manner, private
parties, pic-nics and quiet excursions being
indulged in by many, who as formerly, d light
in remembering the “Twenty-Fourth.”
	Ogden made a pleasant demonstration in
honor of the entry of the Pioneers into the val-
ley, 25 years ago, on Thursday, the Twenty-
Fourth ult., a number of denizens from this
city and adjacent settlements participating
There was firing of cannon, hoisting of national
Colors with salute, music and all the prelimin-
aries, followed by an assembling together of
citizens and visitors at Jones’ Grove, where an
entertaining season was spent in the enjoyment
of music, songs, speeches, prayer, etc., and danc-
ing in the afternoon and evening. The hospi-
tality of the good people of Ogden, it may be
remarked, is unsurpassed.
	Two serious accidents have but recently
occurred on the Utah railroads, one on the
Southern, by which Mr. Philip Lewis, of Lehi,
suffered the grievous loss of an arm, the other
on the Northern, at or near Ogden, which was
the cause of a like affliction to an emigrant
lady, just arrived, who, we understand to be
the widowed mother of two or three children.
And both these accidents we are informed were
the results of trying to get on or off the cars
when the trains were in motion. Too great
care cannot be taken by persons in going about
so firy and unscrupulous a steed as the iron
horse; lessons should be gleaned from observa-
tion, and much suffering might be thus avoided.


Remember that a raw egg will clear your
throat of fishbones. Put one in a little hot
wine, add some sugar, and the fishbones
will slip down all the easier. P. S. You
can take the egg, wine and sugar anyhow.
They’re good as a preventive; and you
don’t know what moment you may get a fish
bone in your throat.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

				ST. LOUIS, June 20, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	Dear Lula.—When writing you last,
which was on the ocean, I did not anticipate
either time or opportunity for communica-
tion with you again, while on my way home,
but, in consequence of the extreme piety of
this infidel age, we are in this great, live
city, detained over Sunday. We arrived
here yesterday morning from Kansas, where
we found our youngest brother, whom we
had not seen for more than twenty years—
he was then a boy, now the father of a large
and promising family, and located on a farm
one half mile square, in a beautiful rolling
prarie country, commanding a view both
grand and magnificent, extending as far as
the eye can reach. I think I never saw a
finer or more picturesque landscape scenery,
while the soil is rich and very productive,
situated five miles from Osage Mission, the
R. R. station for that section.
	But more about St. Louis. We, i. e. my
brother Lorenzo and I intended leaving last
evening, but are detained till 10 to night,
the hour admitted as the close of the Sab-
bath, which, despite the sacred rest alloted
the R. R. trains, is decidedly a day of bustle
recreation and hilarity. While writing, my
ears are saluted with almost every sound
imaginable-bands of instrumental music
playing in various directions—the rumble of
street cars, which are loaded to their utmost
capacity, constantly on the track, conveying
gay pleasure seekers to different points—
picnics by land and picnics by water being
a prominent order of the day—groups of
people are promenading the sidewalks, while
processions are marching on the streets; but
the R. R. trains must not profane the Sab-
bath.
	When we left New York, my brother and
I proceeded directly to the place, in the
State of Ohio, where he was born, and where
both were brought up—the place of our
childhood and our youth—also neighboring
towns and countries. I had been absent
thirty-seven years; my brother had returned
once, within that time. Very many of our
relatives and friends have “gone the way
of all the earth” since we left, and every
thing of remembrance has yielded to the
strokes of the battle-ax of changeful Time.

	Our former, loved associates,
		Have mostly pased away;
	While those we knew as children
		Are crowned with locks of gray.

	We saw Time’s varied traces,
		Were deep on every hand— 
	Indeed, upon the people,
		More mark’d, than on the land.

	The hands that once, with firmness, 
		Could grasp the ax and blade,
	Now move with trembling motion, 
		By strength of nerve decay’d

	The change in form and feature,
		And furrows on the cheek;
	Of time’s increasing volume,
		In plain, round numbers speak, 

	And thus, as in a mirror’s
		Reflection, we were told,
	With stereotyp’d impressions,
		The fact of growing old.

	Those of our relatives and acquaintances
who remain, received us with affectionate
cordiality—indeed it was one continued
ovation from first to last, through the
counties of Portage, Granga, Cuyahoga and
Loraine, where we went; even children,
born since we left that country, came dis-
tances to see and converse with us, the
former friends of their deceased parents.
Having been so long abroad, we felt anxious
to return home; at the same time, being
anxious to see as many of our friends and
relatives as possible, we visited night and
day—going from place to place in rapid
succession. I am inclined to think that so
much visiting, was never before, done in so
little time.
	We succeeded in gathering many genealo-
gies both of the dead and the living; and,
we think, in many instances, have renewed
friendships—revived and created associa-
tions that will extend into eternity. We
feel that God is with us, and humbly trust
that His blessing will attend our efforts.
					Eliza R. Snow.
	P. S. By mistake, the foregoing failed
of being mailed in St. Louis, and when the
mistake was discovered, it was loo late to
precede our arrival. If you find anything
in it worthy of notice, it is at your disposal.
							E. R. S.


EVER THINE, WISHES TO SPEAK.

MY DEAR MRS. GREEN RICHARDS:—
	Will you permit Ever Thine to address a
few words in behalf of the young ladies
through the columns of your paper? Of
course it is not to be presumed that the
gentlemen will read it, so she is quite safe
in saying whatever she pleases about them.
And, girls, you must not tell any of your
beaux or brothers, of some suggestions Ever
Thine may make before she finishes this
article; for if she had cared to let them
know her sentiments on certain points, she
could have spoken through the "Evening
News" or "Morning Herald" more than
a month ago, when her indignation was first
aroused upon the subject of which she is
about to treat. Ever Thine was provoked
by reading a little item in "Home Affairs"
in the EXPONENT for June 15th, at finding
therein illustrated the inexcusable ignorance
of gentlemen who are styled "sensible."
Reference is made to the following:
	"A lady of this city speaks of having
accidentally overheard a group of sensible
gentlemen, commenting on the taste dis-
played and the waste indulged in by a 
portion of the 'coming women.' They 
counted over their wages and then the cost
of supporting a wife, and concluded they
could not marry."
	Now, dear editor, does it occur to your
mind that so foolish a conclusion could
be arrived at by gentlemen of good sense?
It looks as though they had eyes that could
only see the vain and silly ones among
women, that's certain. Concluded “they”
could not marry because there were girls in
the world, and in this city even, whose
extravagance would consume more than
their—the young gentlemen’s—income! It
is no more absurd to infer that because there
are men, and many of them, who smoke
cigars, drink whisky, and allow the women
folks to support their families, that all men
do, or would do the same, than it is to sup-
pose the leading trait in the character of
every woman, to be vanity and love of dis-
play, because too many women give occasion
by their manner of dress and conversation,
for the opinion to be formed that they care
for nothing else. But Ever Thine knows
better than to believe either one. Your
paper says farther, as if in commendation of
the superior taste and judgement of these
stayed gentlemen:
	"Besides, it is disgusting to them to see
so little sense manifested by beings who
should be intelligent."
	Well, admitting that the dress of certain
female classes now-a-days is most disgusting,
is that any reason why a man should be
disgusted with all woman kind and conclude
not to marry? Why don't more of these
[new column]
"sensible," modesty loving specimens of
masculine propriety, look after the genuine,
whole souled, pure minded, marriageable
women, who are waiting on every hand for
"some one to love, and to love them”—for
husbands? Do they know that a portion of
the censure that falls upon many a lovely,
virtuous girl, who meets the misfortune to
be wooed and wiled away by some villainous
wretch, wearing the appearance of a man,
and a gentleman, is often due them for their
calm indifference and indisposition to marry?
Girls will be courted and women will marry.
They must have something to love. This
element is as innate with them as is the
instinctive clinging to life. If some have
resolution sufficient to control, and, perhaps
deaden this native inhabitant of the heart,
some also can become so distracted as to
commit suicide. And as almost any style of 
living will be generally endured, ere the
latter is resorted to, so also an inferior
marriage will often be preferred to no
marriage at all.
	But Ever Thine need not sermonize the
girls, who know every word she has written
to be truth so far as it extends. She would
exhort them, though, to be wise, and
patient and charitable; and while the young
men who might be worth having stand aloof
and consider no woman near enough perfect
for them, to let such straightforward fellows
choose their own way, but not to throw
themselves away on wine-bibbers or idle
"good-for-nothings." A prudent girl need
have no fears but that she will marry well,
if she only waits in quiet trust. By and
bye a great many of these "sensible" young
men will find there are no wives for them,
for they would not marry fashionable but-
terflies if they could, and could not if they 
would, and all the other girls will have tired
of waiting and married in plurality. There,
how's that for an indignant school girl?
					EVER THINE.


IDEAL HUSBANDS.

	A writer in the "Saturday Review" says:
Of course one would not like to see women 
give themselves to any one, no matter who
he be, for the sake of getting married; but
the solid things of life should be taught
them as well as its poetic beauties; and false
hopes, false ideals, unsubstantial loves,
should be rigorously excluded. A bad
marriage or a loveless life is not a pleasant
"coda" to that never-acted romance; nor is
the disenchantment which comes with such
cruel certainty on the heels of the lovesick
and unsuitable marriage a blessing to be
desired. Beauty fades, passion cools, the
blindness of romance gets couched when
seeing is too late; poetry does not pay the
butcher; and gallantry of bearing of the
"long sword, saddle, bridle" kind is apt to
lose itself in domestic bad language when
the pot is empty of pudding, and half a
dozen children swarm about the musty
lodgings or dingy quarters to which love
and folly have reduced the gay lieutenant
and his bride. On the whole, Prince Pret-
tyman is a dangerous fellow either to get or
wait for, having the trick of unsubstantially
throughout. Romantic girls would do well
to reflect that, if they are to have only one
gown in a life-time, they had better buy one
that will wash and wear creditably to the
end, rather than a flimsy bit of finery that
looks well only in the beginning, and goes
to pieces before the first year is out


THE Empress of Japan has set the fashion
of wearing uncolored teeth and eyebrows.
It is generally regarded as a shocking in-
novation.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FLOWERS EOR THE SICK.
				      —
	“Daisy Eyebright,” the lively correspon-
dent of the "Country Gentleman," and the
wife of a physician, writes:
	"It would be selfish in us to cultivate
flowers merely to adorn our own homes, or
to gratify our own love of the beautiful.
The flowers are generous, their fragrance is
not pent up in themselves, but is wafted on
over the tiny current of air, and is shared by
every one who passes by our grounds, or
enters our parlors; and we doubt not that
many wistful eyes admire the bright color-
ings and desire to hold some of them in
their hands as their very own. It is a sad
thing to be sick and disabled from walking
out. It is a great privation to be shut up in 
the house, a feeble, wasting invalid, when
there is so much brightness out of doors, so
much to fill the heart and eye with joy and
happiness. We that rise early and employ
ourselves with daily cares and labors, can
hardly sympathize with those who are
unable to enjoy these privileges, which we
can really never appreciate until they are
lost and gone beyond our recall. And in
every community there are those who
highly prize the green things of the earth'
and yet are not able to enjoy them, but are
forced to struggle for life with pain and
sickness day and night. To such sufferers a
fragrant bunch of flowers comes like a mes-
senger of hope and comfort from the outer
world—even a simple rosebud or a bunch of
pansies is fraught with a blessing, and such
slight tokens of remembrance will brighten
many a dark hour, and give a cheerful
appearance to many a gloomy room. Far
better than pills and powder, sometimes, are
the bright, sweet flowers of our gardens to
those who are denied many comforts; and
even when their illness is so severe that
only the physician and nurse can enter their
sick room, the lovely, fragrant flowers will
remind our friends that we are mindful of 
their sufferings, and will do all in our power
to alleviate them. Amid the dull array of
phials of medicine, it is almost a blessed
relief to see a few flowers, which can cheer
the patient in his bitter pain; and if death
is the only physician that can heal. the
flowers will speak to the suffer of brighter
skies and purer airs, where no griefs nor
graves are known; and sin and sorrow never
enter. In time of fruit, a luscious peach or
pear, or a glowing bunch of grapes will be
relished by the sick for their own sake, and
also for the givers; for intense gratitude is
often felt for such kind remembrances, such
little tokens of affection and interest. Dear
friends, let us bestow of our abundance not
only upon the sick and suffering, but also on
those who are denied such blessings."


THE BEAUTIFUL BLUE DANUBE.
				    ——
	The banks of the Danube for many miles
after leaving Vienna are flat and uninterest-
ing. Here and there a rough wall of loose
stones has been thrown up to resist the en-
croachment of the water; but the general
character of the landscape betokens the im-
possibility of cultivation, and the fields seem
scarcely yet to have recovered from the
devastation of the wintery floods. Stunted,
shock-headed, palsied willows, with an
occasional poplar, are the only trees; the 
grass is long and rank, and flags and bull-
rushed thickly fringe the stream. No
attempt at division seems to have been
made—all is common property; though here
and there, where the herbage is of better
quality and more fitted for grazing purposes,
one comes on a vast herd of dun-colored,
long-horned cattle, or a drove of small, wiry,


shaggy horses, some browsing, some gallop-
ing wildly about in terror at the snorting
steamer. At intervals of every two or three
miles we glide past a long row of barges,
some of which have been formed into water-
mills, while the others are converted into
residences for those who look after the
grinding of the meal. According to the
tradition of song, millers are a joyous, lively
race, but it would be difficult to imagine a
more solitary, cheerless life than the lot of
these men, "one side water all around"
them, and such land as they can see, barren,
desolate and forbidding. Of active life on
the river there is scarcely a sign. The
stream is split into so many branches, and 
winds its way through so many devious
channels, between islands teeming with
rank vegetation and high sand banks, that
anything like a distant prospect is impossible.
Occasionally we come upon a steamer tug-
ging a fleet of heavily laden barges against
the stream, and then there is an interchange
of courtesy between the two crews which is
perfectly Eastern in its profuseness. Each
captain on the barge raises his gold-lace cap
and lays his hand on his heart; each mate
half way down the companion ladder does
ditto; even the helmsmen are so intent upon
bowing and saluting that they let go their
hold on the wheel for a moment, heedless
of the dangerous navigation.—“St. Louis
Paper.”


﻿RESPONSE TO A LETTER WRITER.

	A letter dated Fountain, Indiana, July 14,
1873, and addressed "To any lady of good
standing in the Mormon Church" having
reached the EXPONENT post office box,
through the courtesy of the postmaster of
this city, demands notice. The writer
claims to be a physician, expresses his de-
sire to emigrate to Utah and become "a
member of the Mormon Church;" says he is
"a strong advocate of the Mormon doctrine
and principals;" but he is very anxious to
know whether, if he were to come to Utah,
"engage in practice, and goin the Mormon
Church" the Mormons would lend him "a
helping hand" and assist him in getting
a practice by giving him "their patronage
and influence!" Evidently the writer's
devotion to"the Mormon doctrine and prin-
cipals" is to be materially influenced by the
amount of patronage he would receive in
his "specialty of doctrine the eye." Were
his pretentions of belief sincere and honest
he would accept the truth for the truth's
sake, independent of all considerations of
"patronage and influence;" were he an
honest gentleman he would have addressed
his letter to "Any gentleman in good stand-
ing in the Mormon Church" instead of to
"any lady;" for although he says he has
written to several gentlemen in Salt Lake
City and received no answer, we are satisfied
he has not written to any of the authorities
of the Church, nor to any leading Latter-day
Saint in the Territory. We notice the letter
as a specimen of what some men can
attempt. This man has a small family, yet
proposes to leave them behind in Indiana;
and endeavors to open a correspondence
with some "Mormon lady;" asking advice 
of her as to what course he should pursue.
His pretentions are too flimsy. To our
mind he is neither honest, sincere nor a
good man, but one who would try to work
evil under a thin covering of religious pre-
tention.


A man named David Nesbit, in Lindsay
Ontario, proved his unlimited devotion to a
lady, Miss Mary A. Hopwood, the other
day, by shooting her dead—not by accident.


FACTS AND FIGURES.
				——
	BASS, the English Brewer, pays yearly
$700,000 to the railroads for transportation.
	MOSES Dupont, of Holyoke, Mass., and
his twenty-three brothers, have between
them 322 children. 
	THERE are in Chicago's new hotel—the
Grand Pacific—59 flights of stairs, 38 miles
of wire, 999 windows and 1,070 doors.
	THE Pope and Czarina, and the Pope and
ex-Queen Isabella of Spain have been inter-
changing elegant and valuable presents. 
	ABOUT 2,000 years ago Ptolemaeus Philo-
pater built a ship at Alexandria 420 feet
long, 57 broad, and 72 feet high. Tonnage,
6,445 tons.
	A RUSSIAN lady, Lydia Rodelrena, has
given $40,000 to endow a department for
medical instruction for women in St. Peters-
burg Academy of medicine.
	The Episcopalians of Chicago are building
two new churches, respectively named St.
John's and Trinity, at a cost of $150,000 for
the former and $175,000 for the latter.
	THE Danbury News has reached a circu-
lation of eleven thousand copies, four thou-
sand of which are sold through the New
England News Compay, of Boston.
	IT is a notable fact that the first victim
of cholera in Indianapolis was a bar tender
who wore a diamond pin, and had taken other
precautions against the plague.
	AT Des Moines, the liquor case of Mrs.
Priestly against Hierb has been settled by
Hierb giving her a homestead valued at
$1,500 as damages for selling liquor to her
husband.
	STATISTICS show Georgia to be the leading
Southern Baptist State, both in respect to
contributions and numbers, one in every
eight of the population, it is said being a
Baptist.
	THE Washington dispatches now say
there were certainly nearly one hundred
thousand dollars of the bonds that were
stolen from Vice President Colfax, last
winter, and afterwards recovered.
	A DECISION which will have an important
bearing upon the rights of passengers in
street cars, has just been rendered in the
General Term of the New York Superior
Court, in the case of a suit for damages.
	VERY laconic is the report of Captain
Chaw, of the London Fire Brigade, regard-
ing the destruction of the Alexandria Palace
by fire. It is as follows; "A brick building,
about 900 by 40 feet, burned out and the
roof off."
	MR. John McAllister, who lives a short
distance from Dover, Maine, reports that on
the 5th of June there was a snow-bank at 
least four feet deep on the south side of a
hill near his dwelling. He has lived on his
farm fifty-seven years and never before saw
snow upon the ground in June.
	THE leading citizens of Portland, Oregon,
have raised a purse of $5,400 in gold, and
presented it to Mrs. Canby. General Canby
is said to have died poor, leaving his widow
with nothing but a pension of thirty dollars
per month. The charities of the deceased
general are said to have been without stint.
	THE manufacture of rails by a new sys-
tem, which does away with manual labor to
a great extent, is to be carried on by a rail
mill which is now being erected at Louis-
ville, Ky., at a cost of $500,000. In the
process of making rails the iron passes
through thirteen sets of rollers, without a halt
and is turned over five times for side rolling.
The iron is taken from the heating furnace
and transformed into a rail in half a minute.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN IN AUSTRIA.

	﻿The correspondent of the Baltimore
“American” says, “I have before alluded to
the fact that women perform the hardest
kind of laboring work in Germany, but was
not prepared for the sights I have witnessed
to-day in Vienna. In America, mixing
mortar and carrying the hod is considered
such hard work that few white men can be
found willing to undertake it at the present
day. An immense building near our hotel,
occupying a whole block, is in course of
erection, on which not less than 400 persons
are employed, fully 200 of whom are women.
All the hard laboring work is done by
women, such as making and carrying mor-
tar in buckets on their heads to the work-
men handling the brick. They are not
allowed a moment’s leisure, several overseers
being on guard to keep them constantly in
motion. We found the same proportion of
women at work on all the new buildings,
and there must be many thousands of them
to-day doing this species of laboring work
in Vienna. They are both young, middle-
aged and old, but all seem to be strong and
healthy. At dinner-time they swarm into
the shops to purchase a piece of brown bread
and fat bacon and a mug of beer, and eat
their dinners sitting on the curbstones.
Their wages are one florin, or 48 cents per
day, and I am assured by a gentleman resi-
dent here that most of them sleep about the
buildings on shavings, or in barns or sheds,
having no homes. Amidst all the splendor
and wealth of this great city, with its mil-
lion of inhabitants, there is, perhaps, more
destitution, want and suffering than in all
the cities in America. Still, we frequently
hear some of our countrymen praising and
preferring the governments of Europe.
Whilst viewing this scene, the Emperor and
Empress, with his staff and outriders,
glittering in gold and precious stones,
dashed along the Ringstrasse, on the way to
the palace, whilst a short distance off stand
the royal stables, a magnificent structure,
covering at least four blocks of ground, as
large as Franklin square, the meanest ani-
mal of which is better cared for than these
women. It is not to be wondered at that of
the 8,000 births annually in the lying-in-
hospital in Vienna, less than 500 are of
children born in wedlock.


THE WIFE OF GENERAL CANBY.

	More than thirty years ago, in the little
town of Crawfordville, Ind., there was a
merry, old-fashioned wedding, and Captain
E. R. S. Canby and Louisa Hawkins were
married. Both were young, the bride was
beautiful, gifted with a reed-like grace of
movement, and a rich and exquisite voice,
that still haunts my ear with the echo of its
remembered music. The old people shook
their heads that night, and said she was too
tender for a soldier’s wife; it would not do
for her to brave the hardships and dangers
of the new countries. His calm, earnest
way of loving, won her whole soul, and
throughout the shifting changes of all this
tract of years she has gone with him, and
where he was, there was her home—her
only home. Along the lonely frontier,
at desolate outposts, in Florida, in New
Mexico, in California, even on the rough
edge of the battle, that gentle, delicate
woman has hovered near her husband, and
the banner overhead was love. In the fruit-
less march to Utah, under Buchanan’s
administration, her tent was pitched among
the mountains where the troops wintered.
And I recollect a letter, written to kindred
at home, describing their camp, and how


gladly she ate the wild garlic, as a preven-
tive to scurvy, when it started under the
melting snows of a late coming spring.
What the husband gained in moral hight by
the companionship of the Christian wife,
how much he owed to her, and we through
him, has not been recognized. His inherited
tendency to gloom was charmed away in
that serene presence. There was healing
in the wings of the guardian spirit, and
through her vigilence, whatever could
annoy was smoothed from before him as if
by the unseen agency of fairy hands. Partly
to this unfailing care is due that even poise
of brain which kept his judgment so nicely
balanced that, as has been said of Washing-
ton in action, “he never failed to observe all
that was possible, and at the same time to
bound his aspirations by that which was
possible.” Nothing could exceed the
knightly tenderness, the courtly deference
of his manner to her. He learned—as
sooner or later all must learn—that a little
love is much better than fame, and those
who knew him as merely the silent, inflex-
ible officer, could not guess how the lovely-
ness of her life was blended with his, and
filled it with an undersong of wonderful
sweetness. Her household was directed
with a wise and elegant thrift, more abun-
dant than any waste, and once when the
General laughingly complained of being
kept on short allowance, she surprised him
with a sum saved from his pay sufficient to
purchase a farm in Missouri. This, too,
was for others. In Richmond she made our
enemies love her, and in New Orleans said,
“I can hardly keep anything, there is such
suffering about us." How many she has
warmed, and cheered, and comforted only
the recording angel has written. During
their first marriage years her early beauty
sprang up anew at their feet, and a little
girl’s caressing chatter filled their house
with music; but the Divine friend of children
took the young child in His arms, even as
he took the child of old, and has kept her
safely housed in heaven—safe from sickness,
from the battle, from the temptation, from
the weight of years. Immortality would
seem but a cheat if with the dust died
our affections.


PASCAL has finely said, “I do not admire
in a man the extreme of virtue, as of valor,
if I do not see at the same time the extreme
of the opposite virtue, as in Epaminondas,
who had the extreme of valor and the ex-
treme of gentleness. For otherwise this
character would not rise, but fall, by the
excess of the one side, A man shows true
greatness, not by touching one extreme,
but by touching, both at once, and filling up
the interval.”
ErRRORS OF THE WORLD.—The little I
have seen of the world teaches me to look
upon the errors of others in sorrow, not in
anger. When I take the history of one
poor heart that has sinned and suffered, and
represent to myself the struggles and temp-
tations it has passed through, the brief
pulsations of joy, the feverish inquietude of
fear, the pressure of want, the desertion of
friends, I would fain leave the erring soul
of my fellow man with Him from whose
hand it came.—“Longfellow.”
SAY "good-night to your little ones as if
you were saying “good-by.”  The angels
may want them before the dawn of morn-
ing. It is hard enough to bear when grief
alone fills the place of your absent ones but
when remorse sits in the empty chair, and
your last memory of the dear little face is
that of a wronged and sorrowful child, it is
a haunting reproach which you may hardly
hope in this world to dismiss.


CALDER & CARELESS,
	No 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for  the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.	jc14

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

		H. DINWOODY,

At No. 31, East Temple Street, a d [-] o 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large[-]t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place or ladies
to purchase.

A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine,
nd there is none better–if as good–we truthful[-]y
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing [-]everal kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Mahcine which is
manufactured in this city. and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City."
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

		NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promotin[-] the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the view of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the follow[-] ng terms t[-] clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
te paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-			-		-	$13 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club -		-		-			  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50		-		  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-		-			-		  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered le[-]ter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the ex[--]nsion of the 
circulation of the Exponent.


About the 20th of the present month, Pro
fessors Wise and Donaldson intend starting
from New York to attempt a crossing of the
Atlantic in the great Graphic balloon. Most
people are fond of adventure and excite-
ment now-a-days, but few would be willing
to undertake such a voyage.


Woman's Exponent.
