Vol. 2. 	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, July 1, 1873.	No. 3.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Terrible scourges in Nashville, Tennes-
see, seem to have polluted the very air; by
which fifty deaths were occasioned in one
day, recently.
	Frank Walworth, the New York par-
ricide, will likely be acquitted, as his
lawyers expect to prove that, he had just
cause for firing on his father.
	Among the late reports of disasters, and
destruction in all portions of the earth, come
those of conflagrations of notable magnitude
in New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.
	Chicago is going to have an Exposition
in September, and anticipates a more suc-
cessful affair than that of her late Jubilee;
and even that—she is not to blame for trying
to prove was not altogether a failure.
	A woman’s college is being built in Chi-
cago, the founder of which donated a quarter
of a million of dollars, and very graciously
and appropriately permitted his wife to
assist in the ceremonies of the occasion of
laying the corner stone.
	The Empress Augusta of Germany has
visited Vienna in the place of the Emperor
who, on account of ill health, was unable to
go himself. Her reception is reported to
have been an enviable one, and she doubt-
less did honor to the commission, assigned
her.
	An interesting history of the early
days of Captain Jack, the Modoc Chieftain,
in circulation through some of the news-
papers; in which he is shown to have been
of the desperado character when quite
young. His career as pictured, has been a
crooked one. 
	“Mormon Life in Utah," is one subject
which Mrs. Duniway of Oregon has selected
to lecture upon, in that State.  We are not
informed in what way she treats the subject,
but one thing we can say; if she understands
and tells the truth about it, there is no
worthier theme that could be dwelt upon.
	A local editor in Georgia, thinks one
evidence of the fact that the Negro race
can never be civilized was shown in the
circumstance of a darkey clerk immedi-
ately returning to thoughtful owner, a hun-
dred dollar bank note, which had been over
paid.  In any case, such a representative of
a race, in these days, is not liable to be pro-
moted. 
	In Portland, Maine, and Lowell, Massa-
chusetts, the Young Women’s Christian
Associations have formed the worthy plan
of opening houses as temporary homes for
women who enter those cities as strangers
in search of employment; and in the former
city, some gentlemen have shown timely
generosity  by giving $5,000 to aid the
cause. 
	It is gratifying to note that the subject of
reform in dress is receiving marked and
increasing attention from women of sense in
different parts of the country; and it is to be
hoped that it will be dwelt upon more and
more elaborately until women become so
bold as to assert their independence by dress-
ing comfortably and reasonably, regardless
of fashion.
	Number 46, volume 2 of Mrs. A. J.
Duniway’s pleasant publication, “The New
North West,” Portland, Oregon, comes to
hand hearing date June 20th, after a little
season of vacation and rest. Mrs. Duniway
is a lady of good sense and feeling, who has
done much for the “Woman’s Cause,” and
the reissue of her paper will receive a
hearty welcome from many.
	As might have been anticipated, Judge
Hunt, in the trial of Susan B. Anthony, for
illegal voting at Rochester, New York, gave
the decision that each State and not the
United States, has the power and authority
to judge for its own citizens in relation to
sex and other qualifications. Miss Anthony
is a shrewd woman, does not give up the
chase and at the next general election, will
probably, be allowed to vote as she deserves
to do without molestation.
	If laws prohibiting the free sale and
use of liquors are not to be rigidly enforced
soon, who is to provide for the helpless
wives and children of the constantly increas-
ing numbers of inebriates throughout the
country? The larger portion of 1,791 appli-
cants, who for three months have received
aid of the San Francisco Benevolent Society,
at the cost of $5,347, were of the above
mentioned unfortunates. Is it to be won-
dered at, that wemen seek for means of
self-support, and desire to have a voice in
the establishment of laws by which they
and their children are to be governed?
	According to a late telegram, the New
York Board of Health is busy in enforcing
proper sanitary measures against a probable
visit from the cholera. As the dread dis-
ease hits already commenced its ravaged in
some of the distant cities, the amount of
travel is so great and rapid, it might even
find its way like the Epizootic, to these
mountain valleys. In any case, the example
of New York in taking precautionary
measures for mitigating and preventing as
far as possible, the destructive course of this
and other contagious diseases, might be
followed with advantage by smaller cities,
especially as the hot summer weather has
come, with its power to increase the threat-
ened evil. 
	Dr. Elisha Harris, of New York, avers,
after careful investigation, that eighty per
cent of the criminals of that State are ad-
dicted to intoxicating drinks; in proof of
which, he cites a number of instances where
men naturally kindly and peaceably dis-
posed, have been led, while under the
influence of the liquor fiend, to commit all
sorts of horrible crimes, such as their souls
would revolt from in moments of soberness.
A little serious contemplation upon this
subject, readily evinces that the above state
ment may be, in all probability, correct of
other States as well as New York. In many
cases, intelligent, worthy men, good and
useful citizens yield to the tempting
demon of intemperance until they loose
their self respect and become reckless, hate-
ful tools in the hands of the evil one,
instead of accomplishing the generous,
noble works which might have been theirs
to perform. There is no reform more neces-
sary, and none that could be more productive
of universal good than that which is
being agitated in relation to the sale, and use
of intoxicating drinks.
	The aphorism “Don’t fret, for fretting
will do no good,” though so often repeated
is worth remembering every day. Worry, 
rather than work wears out and breaks down 
more constitutions, perhaps, than any other
ailment. With some, it seems almost una- 
voidable, this constant care and anxiety, 
which is ever to be found in abundance by 
all who will take the trouble to pick it up,
in passing over the rough places in life’s 
pathway, and endeavoring to climb con-
stantly, instead of falling back. But it 
doesn’t pay to form the disagreeable habit
of looking for difficulties, and eyeing them as
through a magnifying glass, as people do in 
many cases, mourning over imaginary woes, 
if they happen to lose sight of the real ones.
It is not profitable to go about seeking for 
some sympathetic ear in which to pour the
petty grievances of every-day life, nor to 
sit morbidly down and sigh over them.
Rather rise above them, though it should
require, at times, an almost superhuman
exertion. It does not evince unconscious-
ness of pain or pleasure, or an insentient 
nature, the throwing off or casting aside, 
the weight of conflicting, discordant cir-
cumstances, which occur in every life, to 
shut out the sunlight of the soul and mar
the peaceful visions of man’s bright hours. 
It betokens a well balanced and powerful
mind, to be able to see the light through 
darkening clouds, and to be hopeful despite
vexatious scenes of trial and discontent,
although great men have sometimes given 
way to worryment and died of grief over 
things for which there was no help.
	A cotemporary speaks of having been 
a careful and interested reader of the Wo-
man’s Exponent for some months past, 
with the object of getting at the “Mormon 
view of the Mormon question,” and learning 
“on what grounds they justify polygamy;” 
yet acknowledges to having “met with very 
little success, as there are only occasional
allusions to their peculiar institution.” Not
being aware that any one, to whom the
system of plurality of wives is so very 
obnoxious as our friendly cotemporary
expresses it as appearing to herself, could
have any desire to study into the mysteries 
or learn, of its justifyable features, the Ex-
ponent has taken but little trouble to give
“first lessons” on the subject; but thinks, 
however, that sufficient has been stated, to 
throw some light upon it, to the mind of 
the careful and interested reader, possessed 
of anything like a comprehensive and un-
biased nature. The object of the Exponent
is the spread of peace and good-will and 
although it holds to every principle of truth
and right, so far as its understanding ex-
tends, the law of Celestial marriage with
the rest it sees no good to be derived from 
dwelling continuously, or often on one
subject, however worthy particularly the
one so much harped upon, and hated by a
majority who refuse to look at it in a proper
or reasonable light.  Enough has been
written concerning polygamy, before the
Exponent existed, that any one desiring to
know the Mormon view of it, need not he
left in the dark for want of works from
which to glean light.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


AT THE SEA OF GALILEE

	BY ELIZA R. SNOW, SALT LAKE CITY.

	I have stood on the shore of the beautiful sea,
	The renowned and immortalized Galilee,
	When t’was wrapp’d in repose, at eventide
	Like a royal queen in her regal pride.

	No sound was astir—not a murmuring wave—
	Not a motion was seen, but the tremulous lave,
	A gentle heave of the water’s crest—
	As the infant breathes on a mother’s breast!

	I thought of the present— the past: it seemed 
	That the silent Sea, with instruction teem’d;
	For often, sndeed, the heart can hear
	What never, in sound has approached the ear, 

	Full oft has silence been richly fraught . 
	With treasures of wisdom, and stores of thought,
	With sacred, heavenly whisperings, too.
	That are sweeter than roses, and honey dew.

	There's a depth in the soul,that's beyond the reach
	Of all earthly sound—of all human speech, 
	A fi er too sacred and pure, to chime
	With the cold, dull music of Earth and Time.

	'Tis the heart’s receptacle, nought can supply,
	But the streams that flow from the fount on high,
	An instinc divine, of immortal worth
	An inherited gift, through primeval birth

	Again, when the shades of night, were gone,
	In the clear bright rays of the morning drawn, 
 	I walked on the bank of this selfsame Sea, 
	Where once, our Redeemer was wont to be.

Where, “Lord save, or I perish.” was Peter’s prayer, 
Befitting the weak and the faithless elsewhere. 
And here while admiring this Scriptural Sea, 
Th’ bold vista of Time, brought th’ past up to me.

Embos’d with events when the Prince of Life.
Endured this world’s hatred—its envy and strife;
When, in Him, the Omnipotent was revealed.
And, by Him, the wide breach of the Lord, was
	healed. 

The gates, He unbarred, and led the way, 
Through the shadow of death, to the courts of day
And "led captivity captive,” when
“He ascended on high, and gave gifts unto men.”  
Damascus, Syria, March 17, 1873.
								F. R. Snow.

				R. S. REPORTS.

	From the 3rd Ward, Provo City, May
28th, 1873:  We, as a Society, are doing
about as well as we know how. We are but
a few in this ward, but are pressing onward
and working for the good cause, assisting
the poor that are among us, and gathering
means together to build us a house, or a
store, and intend to do so as soon as possi-
ble. As fast as I can raise more subscrip-
tions I will forward them.
			Yours respectfully, 
					M, John, Secretary.

					Coalville, Summit Co.
							June 3rd, 1873 
Editor Woman’s Exponnt:—
	Knowing the interest manifested in the
columns of your excellent paper in the pro-
gress, etc., of the various Relief Societies
organized in Utah, perhaps at this late hour
a few items from the Coalville Relief
Society may not he deemed uninteresting
to your readers.
	The Coalville Relief Society was organ-
ized by Bishop W. W. Cluff on the 9th day
of January, 1868, M. A. Walton, President
A.Cluff and J. Boyden, Counselors; K.
Merrill, Secretary and M. Cahoon, Treasurer.
It grew and answered the purposes of its
organization, under the able management
of Sister Walton’s presidency; but owing to
her continued ill health she resigned and
Sarah Wild was appointed to succeed her;
and upon the demise of Sister R, Merril, J.
Boyden was appointed Secretary “pro tem.”
During Sister Wild’s presidency the Society
was successful in relieving those who were
in need, and prospered under her unceasing
labor.  In October in 1872, Sister Wild
resigned, intending to accompany her hus-
band, Bishop Wild, on his mission to
England; and Sister Eliza Rhead was
appointed in her place, whose attention is
unremitting for the benefit of the Society.
	The word “Female,” pursuant to the
counsel given, was detached from the name
of the Society at our Quarterly meeting, held
December last. The following is a brief
statement of the finances of the Society from
the commencement to May 31st, 1873.
	Amount received from donations and
other sources, $1,140:70 amount from work
done gratuitously by members of Society,
sewing, etc., $420:15;  total, $1,660:85.
Amount disbursed to the, sick, etc., and
paid for emigration purposed, $1,310:85;
amount invested in the Co-operative Store,
Railroad  shares, and Millinery Business,
$200; leaving a balance now on hand of $50.
				Respectfully, 
					 J. Boyden, Secretary.
	
				First Ward, Provo City,
					   June 18th, 1873.
DEAR EDITOR— 
	I can say that I am thankful to my
Heavenly Father that my name is numbered
with the Latter-day Saints; therefore I wish
to mingle my voice with my sisters in bear-
ing testimony to the truth of this glorious
work.  We live in a very important time;
and the Lord has counted us worthy to he
the daughters, of Zion.  Wherefore let us
endeavor to live our religion.  Let us be
prayerful and obedient to the Priesthood,
and to all the commandments of God. I am
thankful I can truly say that I never have
felt to disregard any Iaw which has been
given, not even polygamy which is con-
sidered so great a trial and has been such to
me as well as many of my sisters. But do
we regret it to day? No! I am thankful
that I am in polygamy and have been for
seventeen years and I hope to gain a salva-
tion in the Celestial Kingdom of God, with
the tried and faithful.  Since the Relief
Societies have been organized, we have
been called to act in responsible places.  I
can say to the credit of my sisters in this,
the First Ward of Provo, that they are doing
well, and are trying to live near the Lord
and are willing to assist in any transaction
by which good may come. The Teachers
are diligent in visiting the sisters, and a
good spirit prevails in our midst.
	I am unable to express my ideas in the
English language as I desire to; true I have
been in these valleys twenty years, but
have improved very slowly.
	Respectfully yours, in the Gospel,
		Caroline. M. Johnson, President.

	Meeting of the young ladies of Ogden
City, June 5th, 1878. Meeting was con-
ducted by Sister Jane S. Richards, President.
Present from Salt Lake City, sisters Pris-
cinda Kimball, Zina D. Young, and L. L.
Greene. Minutes of last meeting were read
by A. M. Frodsham Secretary, and accepted.
	Sister J. S. Richards made a few introduc-
tory remarks. Sister Kimball said, I feel
very much pleased to meet with our young
sisters, and also the older ones. Things are
very different now, to what they were
when I joined this Church.  The young
ladies have a great privilege. To see the
work we could do, to bless the poor, asssist
those that need help and, to become true
mothers. The young may die, the old
must.  Seek knowledge; study good books;
be good to father and mother, help them all
you can; be kind to the little ones, be indus-
trious; keep yourselves tidy and clean.  Set
good examples before the young men; have
nothing to say to one who comes smoking
tobacco.  Be kind and merciful; speak well
of polygamy.  You have a good President,
help her and strengthen her, and may God
bless you.  Sister Zina D. Young said I am
happy to see you all, more so than I can ex-
press.  This is the largest congregation of
young Iadies I ever met with, and I am
pleased to say I do not see the excess of
fashion here I see at home. There are many
subjects of interest.  You are building up
the Kingdom of God—a high and holy call-
ing. If we are obedient to the Gospel, we
have nothing to fear. Be united; be firm
in your purpose. Set your minds against
evil. We came up to see your faces and we
say God bless you. Nothing can compare
with what there is before us. If a friend
tell you of your faults, pay attention. Don’t
be afraid of speaking to each other when
you come together.  Educate yourselves.
Make good use of tine; improve the moments
as they fly.  Be careful of your health:
we want to live on the earth as long as we
can; be sure and fill up your cup of happi-
ness hold your minds like a sheet of white
paper, so the Spirit can write upon them.
May God bless you and help you to fill up
your time in usefulness. Miss L. L. Greene
said:  Sister Zina has said the young ladies
should not be afraid to speak. I think it is
our selves we are afraid of, not each other.
We are in a great school. If we are wise—
with the experience and advantages we
have, we can make the future generation
far ahead of this present one. I pray God
may bless you. Several of the elder sisters
made excellent remarks add a number of
the young ladies rose and expressed their
pleasure and satisfaction with the instruc-
tions they had received. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks. Met again June 19th. A
large number present all seemed to enjoy
the meeting together. Sixteen more young
ladies joined Society. 
			A. M. Frodsham, Secretary.

	Minutes of the Fifth Annual meeting of
the Relief Society of Farmington, held June
11th, 1873. President Mrs. Holmes presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing “We
thank thee O God for a Prophet:”  Prayer
by Elder Hector Haight; Singing, “Let
those who would be Saints indeed:” Min-
utes of last meeting were read and accepted.
The reports of the Teachers then followed,
showing that all the districts had been
visited and donations received.  Counselor
Mrs. Ortentia Leonard, President of the
Teachers, expressed her satisfaction with the
reports, and thought the Teachers deserved
praise for their diligence.  A statement of
the financial affairs of the Society was then
read which showed that the whole amount
of donations for the year ending June, was
two hundred and thirty-nine dollars and
thirty-three cents; disbursements to the
poor, and donations for public purposes, two
hundred and fifty-five dollars and sixty-
three cents. Two shares on the Co-opera-
tive store, and forty-eight dollars out at
interest, leaving a balance in the Treasury
of one hundred and thirty-one dollars and
ninety-three cents. President Mrs. S. J.
Holmes remarked that she was glad to see
so many present, and as there were visitors
from Bountiful, Mrs. Barlow, President of
the Society in that place, Mother Sessions
and Mrs. Perigreene Sessions, besides some
of the brethren who had favored them with
a visit, she would not take up the time but
would like te hear from them.  Prest. Mrs.
Elizabeth H. Barlow then made a few re-
marks: She was thankful for the privilege


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


of meeting with the sisters in Farmington
and thought it a good plan to visit one
another, for improvement could be gained
by so doing. She touched on the duty of
wives, said they should be co-workers with
their husbands and in speaking of plurality
said we should uphold it before our young.
Her mind was full but she would give way
for others, asking God to bless all interested
in the work of salvation. Mother Sessions,
who is 78 years of age, next addressed the
meeting. She was highly gratified and felt
that a good spirit was there—had been inter-
ested in hearing the minutes read. In
speaking of the Relief Society she said:
“Thanks be to the Lord who has commenced
this work through the instrumentality of
His Elders.” She felt a timidity in rising
to speak, old as she was, but was determined
when called upon to perform every duty.
She gave some good advice to mothers, tell-
ing them they should never say anything
against their husbands before their children,
but strive to be cheerful and always meet
their husbands with a smile, for no man was
likely to withstand a woman’s smile. She
thought plural marriage would prove our
salvation if lived right; one should never
notice failings in other wives, but speak of
all the good they had done, and give credit
when it was due. Mothers should teach
their children the Word of Wisdom for
over six years the speaker had not used tea
or coffee, and her health was good. The
brethren present, Elders Job Welling, Hec-
tor Haight, James Smith and Levi Thornton,
followed with interesting remarks. Brother
Welling said the Society had done well and
its affairs had been judiciously conducted.
He had been edified in hearing sister Ses-
sions and said it was mothers who formed
the minds of children. In speaking of the
Relief Societies, he said so long as they ex-
isted they would lighten the burdens of the
Bishops, and that President Young knew at
the commencement, the good they would
do. Brothers Haight and Smith in their
remarks said one motive they had in coming
to meeting was to get the sisters interested
in the Sunday School, as the future de-
pended on the rising generation. Other
remarks were made, brother Thornton giv-
ing some useful suggestions. President
Mrs. Holmes felt that they ought to be thank-
ful for the visit of their sisters from
Bountiful and gave notice that the Society
would have a pic-nic party to be held at Mrs.
Stuarts, on Friday, the 20th inst., and
invited all to attend. After which, meeting
was adjourned for four weeks. Singing,
and closing prayer by Elder Job Welling.
				A.S. Rogers, Secretary.


﻿Late in Life.—Stewart has made the
greater part of his wealth since he became a
man of advanced years. It is said that
George Peabody made but little until he
had passed fifty. The same may be said of
Stewart. At fifty he was worth about a
million—now he has probably twenty-five
times as much. This is a lesson which
shows the importance of improving the
latter hours in life. Some men retire from
business as age steals on, This is a great
mistake. No men are so unhappy as those
who abandon the habits of a busy life. No
one should retire from trade until he is sure
of some busy employment in another sphere,
Mr. Stewart knows that he is happier while
at the head of his emmense trade than if he
were doing nothing. Men who retire from
business become nervous and fretful, or else
sink into mere fatuity, from having nothing
to do. Work is the thing for old and
young, if they wish to escape these dan-
gers.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Home should be rendered a pleasant place
to the children, that they may not be driven
therefrom to seek pleasure and amusement
elsewhere, and, as a natural consequence,
mingle with the vain, the frivolous, and
even the vicious. Let their chief delight
be found at home, and they will not easily
be led astray. A mother should strive with
never-ceasing energy to instruct their minds
and their hearts; to cultivate their moral
natures, and by kindness, gentleness, and
love, twine their affections about her, and
forever retain them. She can exert a
greater influence over them than any other
being on the earth, and when that influence
is properly directed, it is their greatest safe-
guard in after life, when the days of trial
and temptation shall come, and they can no
longer claim the protection of the parental
roof-tree. Then how great is her respon-
sibility! Immortal souls are intrusted to
her care to be fitted for eternity! Where
pure love is, there can be no evil, for it
touches with a finger of life the germs of
good, and blossoms of purity lift their sweet
faces to kiss the hand of God’s benediction.
Because her life was so full of real goodness
to us, chastened with suffering, and sorrow
and pain, how beautiful and holy are the
sweet and sacred memories of the mother
of our childhod; with what soft, hazy folds
is her image draped in the consecrated niche
in the temple of our fondest memories! Oft
when kneeling in the deepening shadows,
after the nightly thanksgiving for the day’s
blessings has gone up, while waiting in the
wing-swept hush for the up-raised, trustful
petition to bring an answer down, we
remember the soft caressing touch of her
loving hand, as in old, far-away days, when
her knee was the altar from which our
simple prayers were wafted heaven-ward;
and the thoughts that now go out to her,
across the wide abyss of years, are the pure
white wings of a dove, full of music, cleav-
ing the silver and violet clouds of the
morning, for everything that our memory
touches of her life is full of the radiant
beauty of goodness. And it should be the
aim and delight of every mother, to live so
that her beautiful example may be so re-
membered by her children.
	Ventilation.—Opportunity for the in-
gress of pure air, and the egress of that
which is impure, is absolutely requisite in
the construction of every house. Previous
to the introduction of stoves as warming
apparatus for houses, those were moderately
well ventilated by the open grates and fire-
places which they contained. The pure
air, because cold, rushed down the chimney
and becoming warm by passing the fire,
spread through the house, giving life to its
inmates. Through the same opening the
rarified air, being lighter, ascended, and
thus constantant renewal was had. In those
days ventilation was not studied, because no
additional means were needed for it. Ne-
cessity being the mother of invention, where
no necessity existed, means were not
studied, because additional means for it
were not needed. Hence, in those days
ventilation was not discussed; and yet
men and especially women, maintained a
degree of health and vigor and hardiness of
constitution, which are both the marvel and
envy of modern times. Grandmother’s
vigor and personal endowments are still the
desired, but despaired of prize, of modern
ambition. Wherein consists the remarkable
change since then? Whence the dyspepsias,
nervous derangements, female weaknesses,
consumptions, etc., of our time? Through
the closing of fireplaces by the invention of
stoves. By this change in household
arrangments the inmates of our houses have
been largely deprived of the life-giving
oxygen, the vital air of the atmosphere.
Every breath we draw, every lamp that
burns, every fire that warms us, consumes
this air in large quantities; and if it is not
replenished by constant ingress from the
stores of nature, we must grow dull, weak,
pale, inert and finally succumb to death.
And yearly, millions go down to untimely
graves, and the groans of the dying are
constantly heard, as the result of want of
ventilation. It has taken us a long time to
learn this fact; and even now it is imper-
fectly understood. Men who argue for ven-
tilation are considered as fanatics, and the
idea remains new-fangled to many.
	Houses, then, should be properly venti-
lated. If no other means have been pro-
vided, every window should be arranged
with pulleys and fastenings, so as to be
readily lowered from the top and raised from
the bottom. An opening is necessary, part
of the time at least, in all weathers, if the
room is inhabited. There must be a con-
stant change of air, and this cannot be
effected through closed windows or imperv-
ious doors.—"Science of Health.”
	Flower-Garden and Lawn. Box.—
This beautiful edging must be clipped, to
keep it in proper shape, and in August is
the proper time to do it.
	Climbers require to be neatly tied up
to show off to best advantage. A few small
iron brackets screwed to the posts of the
piazza or side of the house, and galvanized
iron-wire stretched between the brackets,
will make very serviceable supports, as they
allow a free circulation of air between the
house and vines.
	Grass.—Edgings and borders, need a good
deal of attention in order to look well, and
if cared for often, will require but little
time. The lawn needs mowing over at least
every week or ten days, in order to make
it look well.


Hon. John A. Bingham, late member of
Congress from Ohio, has been appointed
Minister to Japan, vice De Long, removed.
	An effort is being made in Paris, to intro- 
duce pattern dress goods into market, in
place of the plain fabrics which have ruled
so long.
	A Western exchange hits the fashionable
church-goers quietly and handsomely and
proposes that the seats in the churches be
arranged on pivots, so that the devotional
portion of the congregation who enter the
church at a reasonable hour, may more con-
veniently turn round and examine the 
elaborate toilets and decorations of the late
comers,  whose entry fifteen or twenty
minutes after service has commenced is
apparently designed to be spectacular and
to attract the notice and admiration of the 
audience, in utter disregard of the annoy-
ance it occasions the minister.
	A Blood Spring in Kentucky.—The
Bowling Green (Ky.) “Democrat” says:
“We understand that Mr. Calvin Liles, who
resides in the Three Forks neighborhood,
in this county, has a peculiar well on his
farm. In the spring of the year the water
that runs from the spring looks like blood.
The bloody looking water runs from it twice
a week, but ony for a few moments at
a time. During the fall the bloody water
runs but once a week; and after the disap-
pearance of the bloody hue, the water 
assumes a purplish one, which soon passes
off. The water is said to be very delightful 
to the taste.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City. Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address a business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
			
			SALT LAKE CITY, July 1, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.

	At Colby University, Maine, a young lady
lately won the Sophomore prize for declama-
tions......A lad in Oregon died the other
day from the effects of a pistol shot in his
hand......“Impressions of America and
Americans,” by Miss Emily Faithful are
soon to be published......Housework is pro-
nounced most admirably calculated to pre-
serve a robust woman and to strengthen one
who is weak, by Queen Victoria’s chief
physician......It has been suggested in Lynn
County, Oregon, that every man or company
in the State, engaged in manufacturing from
raw material, be sought out and assisted by
advertizing......Mrs. Margaret Sangster suc-
ceeds Mrs. Mary M. Dodge who has resigned
her position on “Hearth and Home” and
goes abroad for health and recreation.......
Several ocean steamers leaving port, on the
fifty-fourth anniversary of Queen Victoria’s
birthday, were gaily decorated, and the day
was observed as a holiday throughout Eng-
land......Nevada is reported to have had a
phenomenon in the form of black frost......
Madam De Hazard, a Russian sculptress,
sent her three master-pieces, “L’Esperance,”
“Pace Generosa” and “L’Abbandonate” to
Vienna......Six hundred thousand dollars
was the consideration for which the cele-
brated Mono mine recently changed hands.
......Boise City, Idaho, is said to be the “dead-
est” place in the whole country, on Sundays,
on account of the very stringent enactment
of the Sunday liquor law......A New Jersey
farmer made $125 per cow, in a year, selling
milk at five cents a quart......A first class
unsectarian college for women is proposed
in Wilmington, Delaware..........Montana
has about eighteen millions of fertile acres
wanting occupiers.........A New Orleans
policeman got discharged for running
through the street and crying fire without
good cause for doing so......The State of
New Hampshire has sixty-one starch fac-
tories and makes from potatoes alone, three
thousand tons of starch in a year......The
North Pacific Commercial Company of
Puget Sound has gone into bankruptcy......
More hops are raised in Wisconsin than any
other State, and they are generally considered
to be productive of health......A calf born
without a tail is one of the late wonders in
Oregon......A ball was given in Wisconsin to
raise money to start a newspaper......A
pound of peat freshly dug contains fourteen
ounces of water......A good thing is said of
Illinois in that as a rule her best men are sup-
ported solely on their merits as men,
regardless of politics......Two of the “sur-
prises,” of modern history are protested
against by the Rev. Dr. Samuel Osgood—
the eight hour strikes, and woman suffrage...
It is estimated that $350,000 worth of fish are
caught yearly in the vicinity of Sandusky,
Ohio......“Wilful dishonesty” is the polite
charge which one editor makes of another
for copying his editorials and allowing them
to appear as orignal......Six Americans, five
English men, Six Irishmen, three Germans,
two Hollanders and one Belgian are students
at the college of St. Joseph, Mill Hill, Mid-
dlesex, England, to be educated for the
Roman Catholic mission.......Capy saloon
keepers sometimes take their pay for a
drink by being shot......Boston school girls
play foot ball......A treaty of alliance has
been concluded between Germany and Italy.
....Two thousand, two hundred more Chinese
landed at San Francisco one day recently.....
Six thousand acres of tobacc owere grown
in Rock County, Wisconsin, in one season.
Ex-President Thiers is reported to contem-
plate retiring soon to private life......Miss
Fanny Campbell, of Bozeman City, Montana,
has entered 160 acres of land, fulfilled the
conditions of settlement, got her deed and
is farming successfully......Miss Ray of the
same place, raised on her farm, year before
last, 60 acres of wheat......London journey-
men carpenters threaten a general strike for
higher wages......The glorious Fourth is
close at hand and is much talked of in differ-
ent parts of the country......Dutch cattle are
said to be enormous eaters but good milkers.
......A woman in Greeley, Colorado, has set
out 13,000 forest trees......The products of
California now include large quantities of
caster oil and mustard......A man in Illi-
nois counted up the Canada thistles in
that State and found them to cover ten
thousand acres......Mrs. Martha Everett has
been unanimously elected Superintendent
of the First Parish Sunday School at Dover,
Massachusetts......“Matilda,” a squaw who
has figured in the Modoc war, is said to
be a woman of considerable capacity, who
keeps the domicile of her lord, a white man,
as neat and tidy as any woman could......J.
Whang, a Maine farmer thinks the profits of
ten hens equal to that of one cow........Great
quantities of poor American cheese are said
to be sold in England for hog feed.......In
Tulare Co., California, it costs $18 per acre
to prepare land for a vineyard and plant
cuttings.......An agreement has been signed
by a number of ladies in Nashville,
Tennessee, to abstain from wearing any out-
ward adornment, or other than the plainest
sort of apparel on Sunday......A San Fran-
cisco woman was arrested the other morning
for disturbing the peace, afterwards was
herself disturbed by imaginary rats which
came with delirium tremens.......A Lynn Co.,
Missouri farmer, with only the aid of two
sons, raised, in one season, over 10,000
pounds of tobacco, from which he realized
over $800 net profit......The ladies of Fort
Wayne, Indiana, contemplate founding a
home for the friendless in that city......The
anniversary of the death of the great novel-
ist, Dickens, which occcurred three years
ago, was appropriately observed at Boffins’s
Bower, Boston, during the first week in
June.


﻿DIFFERENCE OF OPINION.

	The realities of life; in a great degree, are
such as people incline themselves to meet.
There are both pains and pleasures associated
with all periods, and all circumstances in which
existence may be valued, or endured. Excesses
in every form are dangerous, being the greatest
sources of regret and misery; but temperance
in all things ensures a life of happiness and
success. The different views taken on various
subjects are interesting to the thoughtful ob-
server. A Chicago lady writing on the
“Mormon question” says among other things:
	“A woman of any spirit and self-respect
would rather live in a garret and eat a crust
earned by her own honest toil than to share
the bounty of a millionaire with one, two, or a
dozen other wives. Such a system of marriage
does away with the sacredness and beauty of


the marital relation. Perhaps you will say
that much of it is done away with now—by
unfaithful husbands, whose victims and their
illegitimate children must suffer the bitterest
part of the consequences. Still, we say, if we
can have but one perfect and happy marriage
in ten, let us, by 'all means,' have 'that one;'
and let us raise up and strengthen our weaker
sisters, and encourage them to become self-sup-
porting, so they shall not so easily fall a prey to
man's lust, instead of degrading 'all woman-
hood' and, in fact, the 'whole race,' to the level
of its weakest specimens."
	The writer who penned the foregoing senti-
ments is evidently a sincere laborer in promot-
ing the welfare of her sex; and although we
do not agree with her in those sentiments, we
would discuss them in a spirit of candor and
generosity.
	Polygamy, as believed and practiced by the
Mormons, is very different in its nature from
that which is practiced in other nations at the
present day, and should not be compared with
that of the Eastern countries, when the differ-
ence is clearly understood. As it is often
repeated, the Latter-day Saints teach and live
in polygamy from a consciousness of thus doing
right and promoting the good of mankind. If
any enter into it merely through selfishness
in any form, they violate the sacred rights which
pertain there to.
	Now, a woman with such ideas concern-
ing polygamy as are entertained and expressed
by our Chicago friend, would certainly be most
miserable were she placed in a family "with
one, two, or a dozen other wives." Yet, some of
happiest, sweetest tempered and most intelli-
gent women  of our acquaintance—and we sin-
cerely believe them to be among the most
hopeful and contented ones in the world—are
those who have received for themselves the
light of truth upon the subject of Celestial
marriage and therefore have willingly and joy-
fully embraced it.
	Instead of being "the weakest specimens of
humanity," they must be possessed of the
highest order of human intelligence and cor-
responding virtue to enter into and live happily
in Celestial marriage, which they consider the
only true system for forming marital relations.
These ideas advanced by our contemporary,
demand farther attention than we have space
to give in the present issue; but we may refer
to them again.


THINKING. 

	In home life, social life, business life, however
rsituated, nothing can be of more vast impor-
tance than sound and considerate forethought.
"I didn't think," is the most common excuse
for all the little blunders, and even errors of
greater magnitude. Yet such an apology is, in
reality, none at all. Why do not people think
more attentively than the masses do, thus
sparing themselves the cause, in ninty-nine
cases out of every hundred, of extenuation and
regret? It betokens a weak mind to seem
ever absent in thought; and it is not until the
power of thinking is somewhat cultivated,
that it may be at least partially under control
of the will, that a person becomes agreeable as
a social companion in any connection. Lord
Chesterfield once said: "I would rather be in
the company of a dead man than with an absent
one; for if the dead man affords me no pleasure,
at least he shows me no contempt; whereas the
absent man, very plainly, though silently, tells
me that he does not think me worth his atten-
tion. Besides, an absent man can never make
any observations upon the characters, customs,
and manners of the company. He may be in
the best companies all his lifetime (if they will
admit him), and never become the wiser; we


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


may as well converse with a deaf man as an
absent one. It is, indeed, a practical blunder,
to address ourselves to a man who, we plainly
perceive, neither hears, minds, nor understands
us.” 
	It is a great thing, the foundation of real and
useful education, to be able to think compre-
hensively, upon varied subjects. Mothers and
housewives, particularly, should have their
minds so disciplined that quick and wise
thoughts, about almost everything in nature
may be readily handed out; for children's heads
are ever filled with radiant yet immatured
fancies, which demand intelligent answers to
knotty questions; and household duties—almost
more than any others, must have that close
attention which enables one to contrive, plan,
measure and determine concerning the most
minute items as well as the greater indispensi-
bilities connected with daily living. The most
material knowledge of the world may be ac-
quired by close application and judicious
thinking; but without this, a correct knowledge
of anything is unattainable.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	The headers of the Exponent, noticing a
change in the name of the editor will doubtless
readily infer the cause. For a fortnigth past, or
since the afternoon of the sixteenth of June,
we have been highly favored with felicitations
and congratulations of a warm and agreeable
nature, from kind and affectionate friends on
every hand, on the event of our union in the sacred
bonds of wedlock, with Mr. W. Levi Richards,
whose name we are now content to wear in con-
nection with our old one. Hereafter we shall
be able to give our young lady readers occasional
hints and words of advice on the subject of
matrimony, which we have lately concluded is,
and should be of interest to them all. If the
present issue of the Exponent should seem a
little prosy, we ask the gracious consideration
of our friends, and promise for the future to be,
always on hand and most happy to do our best
to please and gratify them all so far as our
humble abilities will enable us.
	An insane man named Henry Hampton,
committed suicide in the Insane Asylum of
this city one evening recently.
	Madam Anna Bishop has been making
sweet music for the people of this city and
theatre goers have enjoyed a musical treat.
	We are solicited to say that the sisters, in
saving paper rags, are respectfully requested to
see that all rags they send in are perfectly clean
and ready for use.
	To ensure attention to their communica-
tions, correspondents writing to the Exponent
over assumed signatures must make known
their real names to the editor. 
	The Fourth is now but four days distant;
but there seems to be very little preparation
being made for its reception. The fire com-
panies are apparently the only ones who have
ardor enough this season to create a stir.
	“A Constant reader of the Exponent” has
sent us some good ideas in pleasant language;
and we regret that she withholds her name,
thus obliging us, in accordance with established
rules, to withhold her production from publica-
tion.
	Miss M. E. Cook, with a party of students
of the Deseret University, had a very pleasing
out, on the 24th ult., taking an excursion trip
to Ogden, where the young  folks had a fine
frolic, and returned well satisfied with  the
day’s proceedings.
	President Young and party went by rail
from this city to Logan on the 26th ult., where
they held a three days' meeting; by which the
people of Cache County were blest as with a
feast of good things, and all experienced a very
enjoyable time.
	It will be interesting and beneficial to most
school teachers in and near the city, to attend
the normal class which Professor Park kindly
offers to teach gratuituous for the benefit of
teachers who have not had experience, and those
desirous of becoming teachers; commencing
next Monday, the 7th inst., at 9 o’clock a. m.,
at the University buildings.
	Among the truest and most energetic friends
of the "Exponent," we are pleased to mention
Mrs. Ruth Tylor of Beaver City, who will act
as Agent in behalf of the journal for that county;
also our Agent for Weber county, Mrs. A. M.
Frodsham, who is unremitting in her efforts to
promote the welfare of the paper. The "Ex-
ponent" has many aiders and abetters, to whom
we tender our sincere thanks for their kindness
in contributing so liberally and incessantly to
its interests.
	A Company of emigrants, the first of the
season, arrived at this city on the 26th ult.,
being 22 days from Liverpool. Many friends
were at the Utah Central depot, to welcome
the new comers, who appeared full of life and
vigor—very little like the condition in which
the early pioneers to these valleys were wont
to find themselves after months of hardship and
fatigue, crossing the plains with ox teams or on
foot.
	On Wednesday, June 18th, President George
A. Smith and Mr. Thomas W. Jennings, of the
Palestine party, arrived at Evanston where
they were met, warmly welcomed and escorted
home to this city, by President Brigham Young,
Mrs. B. W. Smith and a large party of friends
and relations. Both gentlemen appear to have
been in all respects benefitted by the travels
and experience they have had, yet, are heartily
glad to be at home again among the Latter-day
Saints. President Smith gave some interesting
accounts of portions of his journey, in a dis-
course delivered in the New Tabernacle, on
Sunday, the 22.
	When our last issue went to press, it was
anticipated that ere another fortnight had past
away Sister Eliza R. Snow would again join
her Friends in Utah, after her long and pleasant
journey to Palestine, and back. In this, how-
ever, her numerous friends here can well, bear
with being a little disappointed, when they
realize that she is still enjoying herself while
yet absent from home, visiting among old
friends and relatives, with her brother, in the
States; while again our readers are favored with
fine productions from her pen, and may feel
certain of having the pleasure soon of bidding
her welcome back to Salt Lake.
	Pleasure excursions to the Great Salt
Lake, and steam-boat trips on its broad bosom,
are becoming noted sources of recreation for
general holidays. The Lake possesses good
natural advantages for those who are fond of 
bathing; and with the increase of population, 
wealth and traveling facilities, we anticipate
seeing fine watering places spring up on the
shores of the “great inland sea” where our
citizens, and visitors from abroad, can enjoy,
in the hot summer time, the invigorating even-
ing breeze that blows from off the Lake,
bathing in its buoyant waters, its delightful
scenery, evening promenades, rides on the
beach, and moonlight excursions on the water.


How often a sound night's sleep changes
our feelings towards those who differ from 
us!  And how cautious, after this experi-
ence, should we be in our hasty, ill-digested
denunciations of the conduct and opinions
of others!


THE SEX.
	Mrs. Smith, of the “Inland Monthly,” is
endeavoring to organize a woman’s printing
company in St. Louis.
	The pension agent at Augusta, Me., pays
twelve widows for services rendered by
their husbands in the revolutionary war.
	The Catholic clergy, of Iglan, Moravia,
induced 400 women to sign a petition
against the appointment of a Jewish teacher
at the village public school.
	An orator, speaking of “woman, lovely
woman,” concluded thus: “Depend upon it,
my friends, nothing beats a good wife.”
“I beg your pardon,” said one of his hearers,
“a bad husband does.”
	A woman in Chester interfered with her
brother’s courtship, and begged him to stay
at home in the evenings. He waited until
the evening, when she expected her own
lover, and complied, and she says fraternal
affection is a heartless mockery.
	Miss Francis E. Willard, President of the
Evanston College for Ladies, has received 
an appointment from Governor Beveridge, as
the Commissioner from the State of Illinois
to the “Women’s Centennial Jubilee” to be 
held in Philadelphia, in July, 1876.
	Lady Shelley, who died recently in Eng-
land, was the person who made a copy of
the confidential letter which the duke of
Wellington wrote to Sir John Burgoyne on
the defenseless state of the kingdom, and
sent it to the London “Morning Post.”
	Mrs. Carey, sister of Senator Stewart, has
been appointed postmistress at her native
town in Ohio, with a salary of $2,200. She
presided over the household of Senator
Stewart during the absence of his family in
Europe, and is a very charming and estima-
ble lady—and a widow.
	Miss Fannie H. Richards, late engrossing
Clerk of the Iowa Senate, has accepted a
position on the editorial staff of the State
Printing Company, and is daily engaged in
preparing copy for the fifty papers now sup-
plied with auxiliary sheets by the Des Moines
institution.
	Every noble and every great man is but
a mirror to reflect his mother’s virtues, and
the noblest sentiments that have fended to 
promote our fame, and honor, and glory as
a nation, are but developments of the simple 
but sacred words which first fell from a 
mother’s lips.—“Smith’s Magazine.”
	Mrs. Levi Woodbury, who was a belle in
President Jackson’s day, when her husband
was Secretary of the Navy, spends her sum-
mers with her daughters, at her old home
in Portsmouth, N. H., and may often be 
seen riding on horseback alone in the sub-
urbs of that delightful old town.
	There are women who love solitude and
live in it, who realize the idea that they 
seek no joy but that which flows from the
depth of their own inner beings. Very few
people understand what infinite advantages
exist in solitude, especially for woman. If 
she be married and have children, her
famiy circle is her solitude; if the contrary
be the case, her solitude is absolute, one “in
which she can actually live alone.”
	In 1848 a French woman, who earned her
living by washing, was passing in the
streets of Paris, when a pistol was fired at
M. Thiers. The bullet missed the intended
victim, and lodged in the flesh of the woman.
She is now in her fifty-ninth year, and en-
joys saying to the ex-President, I received
in my arms the bullet which was destined
for you in 1818.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MADE OF KISSES.

			BY A. H. POPE.

	“What are you made of, Maggie, dear?"
		Maggie turns from Rover,
	With the strictest reverence,
		(Just her grandma over),
	In the truest, bluest eyes 
		Back of sunny lashes,
	While the earnest answer comes,
		"Made of dust and ashes."

	"What you made of, Johnny, boy?"
		Boy stands still a minute;
	If there’s any mischief round, 
		He’s the one that’s in it. 
	“I ain’t dirt!” His brown eyes gleam,
		And he archly reaches
	Toward the basket’s winy board, 
		“Guess I’m cream and peaches.” 

	“What you made of Taddie, pet? ” 
		Taddie’s eyes are glowing, 
	Two white bands push back the curis,
		Two white teeth are showing;
	And the smiles, they twinkle round
		Like a band of blisses;
	“Cause they takes ’em, all the time,
		'Spects I's made of kisses.”


CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW. 
	Steamer Wisconsin, June 4, 1873. 
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	My Dear Lula:—We are seven days out
from Liverpool—have had smooth sea, and, 
thus far, a very prosperous passage. Our 
steamer affords the best accommodations of
any we have patronized on our tour—the
staterooms are more commodious and the
births and lounges broader and less pent up,
giving sufficient lattitude for an ordinary
sized person, at least, to move. Captain
Freeman is a sociable, cheerful man, ap-
parently much liked by crew and passengers,
and we are as well satisfied as possible with
our home in the midst of the waters. 
	I wrote you last at Hamburg in Germany,
the 16th of May; that evening we took
steamer for London, where we arrived
on the evening of the 18th and put up
at "Cook's Boarding House," Great Rus-
sell Street, where we stopped on our outward
tour, and experienced quite a home-feeling
on our return, especially when joined, as we 
were, in the course of the evening by our
excellent mutual young friend and brother, 
Elder Junius F. Wells. Here President
Smith received a letter from brother Paul
A. Schettler, who parted with us at Berlin
to visit his relatives, and collect genealo-
gies, expecting to join us at this point; 
stating that his old aquaintances gathered
around him in great numbers, and were so 
anxious to hear him converse, that he should
require more time than he had anticipated, 
unless President Smith particularly coun-
seled otherwise. The party now consists of 
President George A. Smith, my brother
Lorenzo Snow, T. W. Jennings and myself
being highly favored with the company of
Emigration Agent, W. C. Staines, who is 
returning from Europe to New York. 
	In London we attended Conference with
the Saints, on Sunday, in the Grand Amphi-
theatre, Holborn, where their meetings 
were held and well attended—President
Carrington remarked that the assemblies in
the afternoon and evening were larger than 
he had seen at any previous Conference.
The Spirit of the Lord was free and power-
ful and the Saints rejoiced much on that
occasion—testimonies were borne of a very
interesting nature, and it is to be hoped that
some seed fell on good ground—suffice it to
say, the Saints had a refreshing time. Here
I met sister Mercy R. Thompson, whom we
left in London on our way East. 
	On the 27th we left for Liverpool, where 
we experienced much kindness from Pres-
dent Carrington who accompanied us from
[new column]
London, and also from brother George F. 
Gibbs, of the Millennial Star office; and on 
the 28th went on board the “Wisconsin."
We now feel that we are on our way home,
although my brother and I anticipate spend-
ing a few days in the Eastern States, with
our relatives. Since abroad, I have neither
had time, nor allowed myself to think very
much of home, except in those seasons of
devotion and holy aspirations, when higest
interests, and dearest objects are ever
present with us! but when I shall be per-
mitted to reach that point, I feel it will
superseed every other in interest.
	Woman’s Exponent, of which I have
received a few numbers, is to me, the best
representative of Utah, for in that I see so
many familiar names, and repeated testi-
monies of the continued energies, and stead-
fastness of many of the mothers and
daughters of Zion, in promoting her welfare;
in which I shall be most happy to rejoice
with them, and reunite my weak efforts in
the great, common, glorious cause.

	We’ve sailed on many an ocean,
		And entered many a port —
	View’d many a princly Palace,
		And many a lordly Court.

	Seen many Marques and Churches,
		And witness'd service there
	And how unlike the Gospel,
		Their modes of worship are.

	How long shall superstition,
		Priestcraft and ign’rance bind 
	In chains our fe'low beings
		And dwarf their powers of mind?
	
	By undisputed tokens.
		His favor’d people know
	That God again has spoken”
		From heav'n, to man below:

	And that the glorious Gospel 
		Meets every mortal need;
	While Truth Eternal triumphs
		O'er every human Creed.

	By faith, and works united, 	
		Through Jesus' blood made free;
	How noble, pure, and Godlike,
		The lives of Saints should be!

	Safe from the fierce destroyer
		That on the water rides;
	And "terra firma" dangers,
		The Lord our pathway guides.
	
	From many a stranger country,
		And many a foreign strand,
	We now are sailing homeward,
		Towards our native land. 
	To those who have an eye to see and a
heart to understand, the hand of God has
been manifest in dispensing blessings
to us as tourists: From calamities and 
dangers by storms at sea in front and 
rear, we have escaped; and without any 
interruption, worth of note either by sea or
land, for which we feel truly grateful. We 
expect but a short stay in New York, which
you will accept as an apology for my writing
as I am doing, trying to make the move-
ments of my pen correspond with the undu-
lating motion of the ship, which is not the
easiest thing imaginable, as you will per-
ceive by my tremulous scribbling.
						Eliza R. Snow.


﻿Old Shoe.—Old Shoes have their uses—
a fact which few people realize, as they cast-
off foot covering into the ash-barrel. What
does become of all the boots and shoes?
Many of them are cut into small pieces and
put into chloride of sulphur for a few days.
This makes the leather brittle, and after
it has been washed and thoroughJy dried it
is ground to powder and mixed with a sort
of gum, or glue. It is then pressed into
moulds, and buttons, combs, knife-handles,
and similar articles are the result. So much
for old shoes.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	Watching for good in others, more per-
haps, than anything else, strengthens our
own virtues and lessens our faults; for hav-
ing goodness in our mind, it leaves its im-
press there, and good deeds follow.
	Our labors for Zion will never be lost.
We may reach out after other things which
will pass away and perish; but for whatever
we do for the good of Zion we will not fail
of being rewarded.
	Want of charity for human frailties
betokens narrow-mindedness; a great mind
comprehends how hard it is to be always on
the alert—thinking intelligently, judging
correctly, speaking generously and acting
nobly and wisely.
	According to Professor Fowler, a sensible
woman should be allowed to do just as she
pleases, but she should not want to do every-
thing that a man may, for it is not her
place to do it all, and she is incapable in
many respects if she should want to.
	True joy is a serene and sober motion;
and they are miserably deceived that take
laughing for rejoicing: the seat of it is with-
in, and there is no cheerfulness like the
resolutions of a brave mind, that has fortune
under its feet.
	To many persons it seems a small thing to
sit down and prepare matter for the periodi- 
cal press, but let those inexperienced with
the pen, and whose brains have never been
trained to systematic labor, attempt to
furnish intellectual food and recreation to
their fellows, and they will soon find that
 mental labor is far more destructive to
health than all other toil.
	A curious story of luck on a battlefield is
perfectly authentic. A ball passed straight
through a man’s body, and the man recoverd.
This much is not unparalleled, but there
was something more, highly curious and
lucky. The man was consumptive, and had
formed tubercles. The ball carried away
the tubercles, and the man recovered not
only from the wound, but also from the 
consumption.
	Of all amusements that can possibly be 
imagined for a working man, after daily toil,
or in the intervals, there is nothing like 
reading. It calls for no bodily exertion, of
which the man has had enough—perhaps
too much. It relieves his home of dulness
and sadness. Nay, it accompanies him to
his next day’s work, and gives him some-
thing to think of besides the mere mechanical
drudgery of his everyday occupation—some-
thing he can enjoy while absent, and look
forward to with pleasure.
	Always act on the axiom, that it is better
to have no pictures than poor ones; and that
a realy good thing is worth paying for,
while a poor one is dear at any price. If
you cannot afford a first rate line engraving,
buy a first-rate lithograph; if you cannot
afford a porcelain, buy one of Le blond’s oil
prints. But whatever you buy always keep
in mind to have the best of its class, and
that no one can afford to buy a second-rate
work of art.
	If one is disposed to count the compara-
tive cost of letting children hunt up their
own sources of amusement, and of providing
them with means of occupation, it will be
found that the latter is the more economical
in a monied point of view, to say nothing of
other points in its favor. The waste and de-
struction, the mischief and havoc, that
juveniles, left to themselves, will make,
would, judiciously forestalled, furnish ample
means for their pleasant and profitable recre-
ation, and the forming of habits invaluable
to them in future life.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the Exponent
THE FARMER IS THE KING OF MEN.

	I do not mean the plodding, listless, aim-
less farmer who thinks himself “condemned”
to farming by lack of ability to do anything
else. I think the farmer should have the
best head, heart and frame in the land; and
it arouses my utmost indignation to hear of
a father selecting those he deems most in-
telligent of his sons to be educated for
lawyers, doctors, merchants, etc., and saying
of the one he thinks dull, “He’ll have to 
stay on the farm; he’s not the capacity to
fill a learned profession.”
	Thus they are taught that little intellect
is requisite for a farmer, and if a young
man has any he must seek a broader field
for its display. He thinks the red-handed
butcher of men a hero, but a farmer is
contemptible. I do not mean the farmer
who adopts this opinion and harbors poor
esteem of himself and his occupation, who
goes without animation to his heavy, un-
methodical drudgery. “He” is no king. I
mean the man who chooses to be a farmer 
and makes a fine art of it; who loves to
watch the developments of nature, animate
and inanimate; who loves the smell of the
upturned soil; who takes unalloyed delight
in his substantial barns, stables, paddocks
and their inmates; who breathes the dewy
air of morning or the odor of new-mown
hay with keener relish than he could sip
the wine of revelry or adulation. I mean
the man who has a real paternal love for his
tidy lanes and fences, his billowy expanses
of cereals, his fruit and ornamental trees,
his gravel walks, his commodious buildings,
his thorough-bred stock—his superb horses,
his superior cows and oxen, his fine-wooled
sheep—ah! he is the king of men.
	Full of health and vigor, ready to act his
part in life, thankful to God for all his bless-
ings, he takes large views of life willingly
accords to human and brute all the enjoyment
for which they were created, and never
degenerates into a petty tyrant.
	His gains are not wrung from the scanty
purse of widows and orphans toiling for
him at starvation prices, nor obtained from
the bursting from some speculative bubble
which fills his coffers just in proportion to
the depletion of others.
	None are poorer, but all richer for his
success; because his gains are won from the
still unimpoverished elements and coined in
the mint of Nature with her own divine
impress upon them. He takes no man’s
money without a fair equivalent; by
his labor the world is fed and is also
largely indebted to him for apparel and
luxury. He is the rich foundation on which
the natural superstructure rests; and so long
as this brotherhood is pure, strong, noble,
the combined powers of earth cannot over-
throw that nation.
	He looks up to God, not with guilty fear
but with reverence and love, as to a father
and a friend from whom his most secret
thoughts need not be hidden. He has a
robust body which does not detract from,
but supports his mental superiority. He
cultivates his intellect as assiduously as he
does his fields, and uproots evil habits as in-
dustriously as he does weeds and brambles.
	As grain, standard fruits and other staples
must have his first care in farming, so the
solid acquirements of mind receive first and
best attention; and as he would not be with-
out the variety of fruits and vegetables,
vines and flowers, neither would he pass
over as useless, light and graceful literature,
music and dacing; and while making the
stirling virtue of character his unwavering
aim, he will never neglect the little charm-
[new column]
ing courtesies which make life so sweet.
	Such is my ideal of a man, a gentleman,
“the image of God;” and I would rather be
such a man or the wife of such, than the
proudest monarch thatever sat upon a throne.
And I would teach my son ratther to aim
at such a life as the most blessed under the
sun, than see him eloquent as Cicero and
wealthy as a Rothschild, without this keen
love of nature and all natural excellence,
which are indispensible to the character of
my ideal farmer and king of men. 
							L. L. D.


A WORD ON FASHION.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:—
	We wish to call attention to the subject of
fashion, as there has been but little said
concerning it of late, and as we consider it
one of the most important items pertaining
to the salvation of woman. We would be
pleased to see the serious attention of all,
directed to the “tyranical queen,” that has
so long oppressed and degenerated the
human family. How many kind fathers
and husbands have been involved in debt
through the extravagance and unwise course
of an imprudent family! We often hear it
asked, “What should the fashion be?” We
give the answer of a Prophet, as obtained
from God:   “Let your garments be neat and,
plain and the workmanship of your own
hands.” Mothers, who call yourselves
Christians, who purchase twenty yards of
material for one dress, pay twenty dollars
for trimming and twenty-five or thirty for
making, do you over think of the poor in
every land, putting up their petitions to
their Father, and to your Father and God,
who created all to share in His mercies?
Oh mockery! No more call yourselves fol-
lowers of that meek and lowly Lord, the
Redeemer of the world. Let us question:
Has not one woman, the same right to intro-
duce a fashion that another has? Does not
a woman look more intellectual in a plain
solid colored suit than she does dressd in a
suit part black, part white, green and blue?
We omitted to mention: “red,” which is, of
course, indispensable. Sacred history in-
forms us that God created male and female
erect; and all nations have acknowledged
that any other form than the erect posture
given to them in their natural organization,
is deformity; and historians have admired
the Indians for their upright figures.
Whenever a style of dress is adopted which
will not compress the vital organs during
the development of the body, and the laws
of life are observed in regard to dress, you
will see a decided improvement; and what-
ever improves physically, will add mentally 
to refinement, elegance and strength.


It was “better than a play” what John
Kemble did one night when performing
a favorite part in a country theatre. He
had been interrupted from time to time by
the crying of a child in the gallery. At
length, angered by this rival performance,
Kemble walked with solemn step to the
footlights, and addressing the audience in
his most tragic tones, said, “Ladies and
gentlemen, unless the play is stopped, the
child cannot possibly go on.”


﻿The finger of Galileo is shown under a
glass case in the Florence Museum. It
stands a mysterious-looking bit of parch-
ment, pointing towards heaven. The hand
to which it belonged is supposed to have
been put to the torture by the Inquisition
for ascribing motion to the earth, and
the finger is now worshiped for having
proved the motion.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	Iron, in place of stone, is being used for
memorial tablets over graves.
	In one of the shoe factories, at Lynn,
Mass., a man has used the same bench for
over forty years.
	A boy, aged thirteen years,  committed
suicide by hanging himself in Schuylkill
County, recently.
	In Montevideo, Uruguay, beer is said to
sell for one dollar a glass, while sheep cost
ten cents a piece.
	A flash of lightning singed all the hair
off a man's head in Wisconsin lately, but
otherwise did him no harm. 
	An expert thief, in New Haven, Conn.,
stole a quanty of valuable lace from the dress
of a lady, while in church.  
	The poor taxpayers of New York City
eke out a miserable existance on $1,04,453,-
633 worth of real and personal estate.
	Three-fourths of the women of Boston
dare not sneeze with their mouths open,
owing to their inability, to hold on to their
teeth.
	It is estimated that in Paris more than
2,000 persons of both sexes make their liv-
ing by gathering rags and other refuse in
the streets.
	A young woman from Allegheny, called
at a Pittsburgh book store the other morn-
ing for a "deck of them new posted kerds;
double-headers.”
	A Louisville woman bought a feather
bed the other day and found a shot bag in
it containing four hundred and seventy
dollars in bank notes.
	The price of gold has not declined in the
principal markets of the world, although
the annual product has increased four-fold
within thirty years. 
	Europeans are amusing themselves with
a book, purporting to give the letters the
Grand Duke Alexis received from young
ladies while in this country.
One of the newest rifles submitted to M.
Thiers possesses the advantage that the
cartridges to suit it can be manufactured
even on the field of battle.
	As a gentleman was walking along one of
the streets in Terre Haute, Ind., the other
day, a wild pigeon flew into his face break-
ing its wing and blacking his eye.
	Benjamin D. Emerson accumulated
$250,000 and died at Jamaica Plains, near
Boston. He was for many years a school
teacher, but didn’t save most of his money
at the business.
	Killingly is touched by a recent wed- 
ding, at which the bride wore the beautiful
pink silk stockings which her mother wore
at her own wedding, thirty-five years ago.
	A clock, formerly the property of General
Washington, was disposed of at a sale in
West Philadelphia, recently. The case is
of polished ebony, richly mounted with
ormolu gilt ornaments.
	A Montgomery, Mass., couple in the
neighborhood of seventy-five years of age,
were married the other day at five o’clock
in the morning. The happy old couple took
an early start in order to catch the train
which bore them on their wedding tour.
	A grocer died of small-pox in Washing-
ton the other day, and as no undertaker
could be found to attend the burial, the
widow, being unwilling that the body of
her husband should he conveyed to the
grave in the Board of Health ambulance,
purchased a hearse specials, paying $240
therefor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WHAT NOT.

	Great is the rush for church on Sundays
now—to see the latest fashions.
	When is a lady’s hair like news? When
it is found in the morning papers. 
	“Sam, did you ever see the Catskill Moun-
tains? “No, sah; but I have seen ’em kill
mice.”
	“Are you not afraid that whisky ’ll get
into your head?” asked a stranger of a man
he saw drinking at the bar. “No,” said the
toper, “this liquor’s too weak to climb.”
	An exchange notes that, “in Northwestern
Kansas, there are four men to one woman.”
In New England factories there are often
foremen to one hundred women.
	Billings says: There ain’t ennything
that will kompletely kure lazyness, but I
have known a second wife to hurry it some.
	Subscriber writes to a Western Editor,
“I don’t want your paper any longer.” To 
which the Editor replies: “I wouldn’t
make it any longer if you did; its present
length suits me very well.”
	The kindness of leaving people alone is
one which warm-hearted people find least-
easy to practice; and, in truth, the best
quiet, and completest rest, come with a
sense of kindness waiting, of friends at hand.
when the time is come for them.
	“What’ dis Credit More Biler dat de news-
papers makin’ such a fuss about?” inquired
one darkey of another in the market this
morning. “Dunno," replied the other, “but
I s'pose de gov’ment buildin’ steam-ships,
and wants credit for more bilers dan dey
can get.”
	A lady was engaged in domestic affairs,
when some one rang the street-door bell,
and the servant girl, a Catholic, was bidden
to say her mistress was not at home. She
answered, "Yes, ma’am; and when I con-
fess to the priest shall I confess as your sin
or mine?”
	During an election canvas in Michigan,
a sugeon-dentist was making an excellent
speech in one of the inferior towns. A low
fellow belonging to the other party inter-
rupted him with the question, “What do
you ask to pull a tooth, doctor”? “I will
pull all your teeth for a shilling, and your
nose gratis,” replied the speaker.
	In a Conference Meeting on a recent
Sunday evening, in a Congregational church
not far from Worcester, a colored brother
rose to pray, but before that exercise he
indulged in brief preliminary remarks as
follows: “Brethren and sisters, it don’t do
me a bit of good to hear any of you speak or
pray; I feel as though I must do it for my-
self, for you know, as our Lord an Saviour
Jesus Christ said, ‘Every tub must stand
upon its own bottom!’”
	Their Hearts.—During the late civil
war it was considered necessary in Cynthi-
ana to keep a few soldiers at that place.
One night two of them strayed into the
church of the colored people just as the
minister was concluding an invitation to
any one who was inclined to “come and join
the church.” After he had finished, these
two soldiers got up, walked forward, and
presented themselves for admission; where-
upon the preacher said: “Breddren, dis is
a cullud church, an’ I dunno as I’s any
'thority to take in white folks.” At this
point an elderly uncle rose in the congrega-
tion, and ejaculated: “Take ’em in, Brud-
der Jilson, take ’em in; dar skins is white,
dat’s fact, but dar hearts is jis as black as
our’n, suah.”


FLOWERS. 

	A man that hoards riches and enjoys
them not, is like an ass that carries gold
and eats thistles.
	Neither death nor life is as serious as
marriage. Yet nothing is entered into
more thoughtlessly. 
	Value the friendship of him who stands
by you in a storm; swarms of insects will-
surround you in sunshine.
	To be humble to superiors is duty; to
equals, is courtesy; to inferiors, is nobleness;
and to all, safety; it being a virtue that, for
all her lowliness, commandeth the soul it
stoops to.
	Man is the victim of discontent. He
either looks for happiness in his recollections
of the past, or seeks it in the brilliant visions,
which his fancy has created of futurity;
whereas the present should be the moment
of enjoyment and preparation for the future.
	“When a stranger treats me with want
of respect” said a poor philosopher, “I com-
fort myself with the reflection that it is not 
myself that he slights, but my old and shab-
by hat and cloak, which, to say the truth,
have no particular claim to adoration. So,
if my hat and cloak choose to fret about it,
let them, but it’s nothing to me.”
	Kind words are the bright flowers of
earth’s existance; they make a very para-
dise of the humblest home the world can
show. Use them, and especially around
the fire side circle. They are jewels beyond
price, and more precious to heal the
wounded heart and make the weighed down
spirits more glad than all other blessings the
world can give.
	It is worth noting that civility has always
had luck as an ally. There is a story told
of some gentleman, who, on a battlefield,
happening to bow with much grace to some
officer who addressed him, a cannon ball
just went through his hair, and took off the
head of another one. The officer, when he
saw his marvelous escape, justly observed
that man lost nothing by politeness.
	LOCKE was once asked how he had con-
trived to accumulate a mind of knowledge
so rich, deep and extensive. He replied,
that he attributed what little he knew, to
his not having been ashamed to ask for in-
formation, and to the rule he had adopted,
of conversing with all descriptions of men
on those topics, chiefly, that formed their
own peculiar professions or pursuits.
	You cannot subdue selfishness without a
struggle. You cannot restrain pride with-
out a conflict. You cannot go through life
without bearing burdens. But you are
going to have help under circumstances that
will redeem you from these things. You
are going to experience more victories than
defeats. Your sufferings will be only here
and there little spots in a whole field of
peace and joy.


﻿Horace Greeley remarks a follows upon
fame and his epitaph in his “Recollections
of a Busy life;” Fame is a vapor; popularity
an accident; riches take wings, the only
earthly certainty is oblivion. And yet I
cherish the hope that the journal I projected
and established will live and flourish long
after I shall have mouldered into forgotten
dust, being guided by a larger wisdom,
a more unerring sagacity to discern the
right, though not by a more unfaltering
readiness to embrace and defend it at what-
ever personal cost; and that the stone that
covers my ashes may bear to future ages the
still intelligible inscription: “Founder of
the New York Tribune.”


﻿How well society drills us!—that we
meet with such calm impassiveness, in its
routine, those with whom we have sorrowed,
joyed, loved, and hated, in such different
scenes.—“Oiuda.”


CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		je 15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
	H. DINWOODEY 
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
nd there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Machine, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, "P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City.”
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter 
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
