VOL. 2.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1873.		NO. 14.


REPORTER'S COLUMN.
	MR. AND MRS. FRANK TOWNSEND
left the city on Wednesday, to visit familiar
scenes in St. George; while they drink wine
with cherished friends there, we miss them
at home.
	WE ARE IN RECEIPT OF FAVORS
from R. T. Burton, London, R. Mudge, San
Francisco, and E. Hoffman, San Leandro.
		AND ACKNOWLEDGE	
documentary indebtedness to our Prove cor-
respondents, M. and L. They may look for 
reposnse in the EXPONENT.
	WM. B. FAHNSTOCK, M. D.,
in a treatise on Artificial Somnambulism,
claims that it requires ten different functions
to constitute a faculty of the brain, viz.
Conciousness, Attention, Perception, Mem-
ory, Association, Likes, Dislikes, Judgment,
Imagination, and the Will.
	AN ENJOYABLE CHOIR PARTY
was given in the 15th Ward Hall, on Friday
evening, December 12th, a commendable
feature of which was, that it closed at 12
o'clock.
			WHILE
we bespeak for our friends and patrons a
merry, merry Christmas,
	SANTA CLAUS'S COMPLIMENTS;
the rolling wheels of time bring again the
season specially dedicated to festivity, and
kindest expressions of sentiment, and good
wishes. After providing good cheer for the
least favored in the community, we naturally
desire to make our immediate family, and
kindred, and personal friends feel the
warmth of genial sun-shine that fills our
hearts, and as worldly gifts are always an ac-
ceptable medium of expression, we reflect
upon what will please this one, what will
become that one, and what will fit the other.
Then the money question comes up, and we
wish the J. Cookes, & Co. had all been
honest, and let the currency of the country
do its legitimate work—pay for honest labor.
Then so many more little socks could have
been filled, and so many more hearts made
glad.
	Many a corner that was devoted last year
to the family Christmas Tree, must this year
be vacant; many tables that (figuratively,)
groaned under the weight of luxuries last
Christmas, will stand, neglected by the wall
on the forth-coming gala-day. And why is
it so, while there is as much money in the
country, and just as many good things as
formerly? It is because of dishonesty and
bad management, together with a lack of
financial ability in our country's representa-
tives. Sad realities for a proud, experi-
mental government to present to an approach-
ing Centennial. Shade the picture. And
heed the lesson—that is easier to practice
honesty and voluntary retrenchment, than
to be compelled to eat the fruits of dishon-
esty and to practice compulsory retrench-
ment.
		BRING DOWN THE PRICE.
	Sewing machine monopoly has reached
[Column 2]
the dimensions of a swindle. Our readers
may not all know that sewing machine man-
ufacturers have become immensely wealthy
on their immense profits; and to increase
their wealth-power, they are in league to
maintain the established extortionate prices.
The average cost of machines at the various
manufacturies is estimated at $13, 16.
Agents bring these machines to us for from
$80 to $125,00.  Our sewing machines
should not cost us more than $25,to $35.
While we celebrate the centennial of the
soaking of the tea in Boston Harbor, let us re-
solve to let agents pay storage on machines
until they or their employers bring down
the price.					S. M. K.


THE SEX.

	THEODOSIA BROWN of Whitehall, weighs
400 pounds, and lives on a daily allowance
of one egg and one prune.
	MISS ANNIE Lippincott, a daughter of
"Grace Greenwood," lately made her debut
on the lyric stage at Dowagiac, Mich.
	HAVING NO children, Laura Keene reared
and bore the educational expenses of her
two nieces, and made them her heirs.
	GIRTON COLLEGE at Cambridge, England,
a new institution, founded to promote the
higher education of women, is now open.
	MISS ELIZABETH Ball, a Dublin lady, who
died a few days ago, has bequeathed £6,200
for founding a church and several Protestant
charities.
	MRS. SARAH J. Hale, the editor of Gody's
Lady's Book, is 85 years old and is still vig-
orous in body and mind. She has been a
widow since 1822.
	ATTORNEY-GENERAL William's wife pro-
poses to the ladies of the Cabinet that no
refreshments shall be provided at their en-
tertainments this winter, and that the mon-
ey they would cost be given to the poor.
	MISS EFFie Moore, a great-granddaugh-
ter of the widow of Ethan Allen, is the
leader of scholarship and deportment of the
last freshman class in the University of Ver-
mont and State Agricultural College at Bur-
lington.
	A NEWSPAPER managed by women, has
been established at Pueblo, Mexico, and a
Catholic priest who has recently married, is
contributing to it a series of articles against
the celibacy of the clergy.
	MDLLE. BELOCCA the new prima dona at
the Italian Opera, Paris, is a young Russian
lady, who enters the theatre with a decided
vocation for the stage. She belongs to a
family of high consideration, enjoying an
income of over 100,000fr. a year, and her
father is one of the most distinguished
savants in the empire.
	MISS SARAH E. Fuller has received an
award of merit for wood engraving from the
Vienna exhibition, a very well deserved
tribute to years of patient skill and effort.
Following this good example our own Gov-
ernment gives her no less substantial encour-
agement in the shape of the contract for
illustrating Prof. Raymond's work on min-
ing.—Golden Age.


NOTICE is given in the "Woman's Jour-
nal," of a woman's tea party, to be held to-
day in Faneuil Hall, to celebrate the one
hundred years that have elapsed since our
brave ancestors threw the tea into Boston
Harbor to prove their determination not to
pay taxes, while they had no representation.
The Women Suffragists will use the occa-
sion to emphasize the fact, that to-day, while
women pay taxes on millions of dollard they
have no representation.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Be frank with the world. Frankness is
the child of honesty and courage. Say what
you mean to do on every occasion, and take
it for granted that you mean to do just what
is right. If a friend asks a favor of you, you
should grant it, if it is reasonable; if it is
not, tell him plainly why you cannot. You
will wrong him and wrong yourself by
equivocation of any kind.

	A printing office has been opened in con-
nection with the Vienna Institute for the
blind. The whole cost of this undertaking
was derfayed by the Imperial Government
Printing Office. Er. Frahkl, the superin-
tendent believes that by special tuition his pu-
pils will be enabled to learn the art of print-
ing, so as to equal in dexterity those not so
afflicted.—The Lithographer.

	TWO ROMEOS— During the celebrated com-
petition, in the year 1749, between Garrick
and Barry, in the character of Romeo, it
was observed by a female critic that, in the
garden scene, Garrick looked with such ani-
mation, and was so spirited in his gestures,
that if she had been Juliet, she should have
thought he was going to jump up to her, but
that Barry was so tender, melting, and per-
suasive that, if she had been Juliet, she
should have jumped down to him.

	What we want is strong-minded and large
natured women who will not be the slave
of dress, or of reform, or of any one idea;
who will understand the philosophy and re-
cognize the beauty and adopt the necessities
of dress without staining its possibilities;
who will neither dwarf nor magnify its im-
portance, but will know how to follow fash-
ion with moderation and discrimination, to
lead it with benificince, and make it in all
things a minister of grace. If the woman
is subordinate to the dress, it is not the
fault of the dress but of the woman.—Gail
Hamilton.

	Sara Coleride, whose memoir has just
been published in London, said a good many
bright and sensible things, but nothing bet-
ter than this of Dr. Chalmers: "O, when 
the wordy doctor does get hold of an argu-
ment, what a sputter he does make with it
for dozens of pages. He is like a child with
a new wax doll; he hugs it, kisses it, holds
it up to be admired, makes its eyes open
and shut, puts on it a pink gown, puts on it
a blue gown, ties on it a yellow sash; then
pretends to take it to task, chatters to it,
shakes it, whips it; tells it not to be so proud
of its fine false ringlets which can all be cut
off in a minute; then takes it into favor
again, and at last, to the releif of all the
company, puts it to bed."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the Exponent
	"WOMAN'S SPHERE."
Tell me what is woman's sphere?
What path was she designed to tread?
What may she hope? What must she fear?
What may she do and what must dare
To win her daily dole of bread?

Must she, TO PROVE SHE HAS A SOUL,
Fling gentle attributes away,
And where black war-clouds darkly roll
And death's red banners float, enroll
Her kindred humankind to slay?

Best fitted for the sword or pen
Are woman's slender, stainless hands?
The one devours the life of men;
The other helps him back again
To heaven's bright, celestial lands.

Is woman's mission strife or peace?
Her fittest task to wound or heal?
To rivet fetters or release
Woe's weary victims and increase
Man's power to fight and conquer ill?

Or say you, do I look too high
And ope for her too wide a door?
Must she not turn her longing eye
On anything beneath the sky
Beyond her small domestic lore?

Is she but fit to sweep and sew,
To spread her master's table well,
To go and come, to come and go,
On one unvaried round, and grow
In nothing good if nothing ill?

Has she no mind to cultivate?
No heart for fatherland to glow?
No int'rest in the future fate
Of sons and daughters, that her state
Is almost slavery, vile and low?

With heart and hands with petty cares
So overfull, she cannot gain
That culture which alone prepares
To mold Humanity's sweet heirs
Fit to adorn a lofty plane.

Since on the souls of men her seal
In fadeless characters is set,
Oh let her know, behold and feel
The glorious crown of mortal weal
Her God, upon her brow has set.

In woman's hand her God has placed
His dearest and most sacred care;
With lofty aspirations graced,
While attributes and motives chaste
For her high destiny prepare.

As idle tools will surely rust,
Neglected harps lose perfect tone,
So human powers howe'er august,
When left without improvement just
Dwindle till usefulness is gone.

As plants untended droop and fade,
And weeds choke out most precious seed,
So woman's mind, a desert made
By long suppression, needs the aid
Of cultivation broad and deep.

Her wisdom makes her son more wise,
Her courage makes her daughter brave,
And in the light of her fond eyes
Whose hope, in their bright future lies
Will loftier thoughts their spirits lave.

Let woman,s sphere, then, not be small;
Her powers developed, not confined,
Her intellect, will, body, all
Emancipated from the thrall
Which far too long has round them twined.

Whatever she can well perform,
Whatever she aspires to do,
Whate'er expands, protects from harm
Or gives her life an ample form
Is well, O man, thrice well for you.

When your mind's culture is complete,
Your nature polished and refined,
For mate in life t'is surely meet
You have a soul, not simply sweet,
But strong and noble, heart and mind.

No shadow, charming toy nor slave
Can ever be companion true;
To fit her for her duties grave,
More light and room must woman have—
To walk side by side with you.

Your children thus will nobler be,
Their powers thrice be multiplied,
For turn to history's page and see
The hero's mother; it was she
Who made him worthy of our pride.
							LU DALTON. 
[Column 2]
			R. S. REPORTS
	The Secretary of the Farmington Relief
Society, Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, reports
that the young ladies of that place, under
the supervision of President Mrs. Holmes
have been organized into an association;
with Mrs. Lucy A. Clark as President;
Mrs. Mary E. Robinson, Mrs. Pheobe Peart,
Miss Julia Haight, Miss Elizabeth Cowley,
Miss Emma Holmes, Miss Ellie Rogers
Counselors; and Miss Lousia Stayner and
Miss Minerva Richards, Secretaries. Miss
Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Zina D. Young were
present at the organization, and the report
of our correspondent shows that a very inter-
esting meeting was held.
	On the 27th of November, "Thanksgiving
Day," Miss Eliza R. Snow and a number of
other visitors met with the Relief Society
of the 19th Ward of this city. The meet-
ing was presided over by President Mrs. A.
A. Pratt, who announced that it was held
as their Annual meeting, which was post-
poned in July, on account of her being ab-
sent from the city. One very pleasing point
made in Miss Snow's remarks to the 
assemblage was, that whatever advance-
ments might have been made by the sisters
of the Society since its organization, of
which she was unable to judge, its members
had just occasion to be proud of the marked
improvements which had been made by
their President and Secretary; she was proud
of the progress of her sisters in different
parts of the Territory where she had visit-
ed, and thankful for the interest manifested
in the cause of enlightenment. She was
followed by several other speakers, includ-
ing Bishop Raleigh. In the evening the vis-
itors attended a meeting of the Young La-
dies' Association. Altogether, the ladies of
the 19th Ward considered that "Thanks-
giving Day" had been to them a very pleas-
urable and profitable one.


HOME CORRESPONDENCE.

		Salt Lake City, Dec. 14th 1873.
Mrs. L. Greene Richards—
	Allow me, through Mrs. Adelaide Ridges,
to renew my subscription for your valuable
paper. My husband, who is in England at
present, wished me to be sure and mail the
EXPONENT to him, as there was no paper
printed in Utah that he would miss more
than that. You see your efforts are appre-
ciated by the gentlmen as well as by the
ladies.
	I had an opportunity lately of handing a
volume of your paper to Mrs. Brown of
Omaha; she read them all, and was so much
pleased with them that she told me she
would subscribe for two numbers, one for
herself and one for her sister who resides
in Chicago.
	My attention was forcibly drawn to a little
circumstance that occurred between my
little ones in their play yesterday. My five
year old daughter had carefully broken a
slice of bread and placed it by the side of
a cup of water on their little table; her bro-
ther drank of the water and she exclaimed
—"Did you drink that? that was sacra-
ment! I questioned her and she said they
were playing meeting and they had blessed
the bread and water. "We did not kneel
and bless it as they do at church but we
asked a blessing on it," said she. I asked
her if she knew why they used sacrament.
"Yes," said she, "they eat because they
are hungry and drink because they are thirs-
ty–and we do it because you do." I then 
took the chance offered to explain to her


why those emblems were used, wondering
if older people did not often eat and drink
because others did, without knowing for
themselves why. I think the time has real-
ly come when the young, both boys and
girls should have a knowledge and testimo-
ny for themselves, and not rely on father's
or mother's belief.
	Please accept my very best wishes, for
yourself and every success for your excellent
paper.	Respectfully,		H. C. M.
						19th Ward.


[For the Exponent.
		THE WORD OF WISDOM.

	Are we, as a people, devoting the time
and study we should to our religion, or are
we wasting our precious moments on the
vain things of the world? I fear, in many
instances the latter course is pursued. The
Lord has said, "Let your garments be plain,
and the beauty thereof be the workman-
ship of your own hands." Is not simplicity
pleasing in the sight of God? Did not His
Son set us this pattern while here on earth?
And shall we not be held accountable for the
use we make of the teachings he has so
kindly given in former, as well as in latter
days?
	After we have made all the efforts our fee-
ble powers enable us to make, to carry out
his precepts, shall we be any to well pre-
pared for his coming? Or are we any to
strong to battle with the trials and tempta-
tions which every day beset us?
	There is another item that forces itself
upon my mind; that is, a portion of a dis-
course of President G. A. Smith, delivered
during the late Conference, in which he
urged us to cease using tea and coffee, and,
furthermore, said that we were not to make
it for our guests unless in cases of sickness;
and then we were to offer them herb tea
first. This was right, he said, it was sensi-
ble. And added, that if we did not observe
these things "our glory" would "be clip-
ped!" The Spirit of God bore testimony at
that moment and does at this, that it was
the truth of heaven. Shall the servants of
God lift their warning voices in vain? Is
it not grievous that they should feel oppress-
ed by the weight of our sins, which we do
not, but should feel ourselves? It is a pity
that at this late date, after having passed
through and suffered what we have as a peo-
ple, that we should fall back into the grovel-
ing ways of the world, and lose all we have
been striving for, many of us from ten to
forty years.				M. L. M.
	P. S.—I would suggest that all who have
not done so, read the article called "True
Independence," in No. 10 of the present
volume of the EXPONENT. It is worthy of
being printed in letters of gold.	M.


OF ALL the religionists and moralists who
ever taught, Fenelon is the only one who
has distinctly formulated the duty which a
self-educator owes to himself. "Have pa-
tience with yourself" is a direction often
occuring in his writings, and a most impor-
tant one it is, because patience with our-
selves is essential, if we would have patience
with others. Let us look through the
world. Who are the people easiest to be
pleased, most sunny, most urbane, most tol-
erant? Are they not persons from consti-
tution and temperament on good terms with
themselves—people who do not ask much
of themselves, or try themselves severely,
and who, therefore, are in a good humor
for looking upon others?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column1]
		PROGRESS OF A YEAR.
THE FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECU-
	TIVE COMMITTEE OF THE AMERICAN WO-
		MAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.
	The American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion is a representative body, composed of
auxiliary State associations. The main work,
therefore, devolves upon these State socie-
ties, and will be reported in detail by them
this morning.
	The principle work of this Association is
to create auxiliary societies, to stimulate
them to activity, to watch for opportunities
to forward our cause in every State and Ter-
ritory in the Union, and to prevent all hos-
tile legislation, both by the States or by
Congress.
	I am happy to report that during the last
year we have formed two new auxiliary
State societies, one in Maine and one in New
York. In accordance with a vote adopted
at our last annual meeting, we have co-op-
erated with auxiliary State societies in pre-
senting Memorials to the Legislatures of
Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massa-
chusetts, Rhode Island, New York, New
Jersey, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Virginia,
South Carolina, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana,
Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, Kansas, California,
Oregon and Nevada.
	In this work Mrs. Tracy Cutler and Mrs.
Margaret V. Longley, gave most effective
and valuable service. We have also corres-
pended with members of Congress, and
worked actively to defeat the effort to merge
Wyoming in Colorado, and to abolish Wo-
man Suffrage in Utah.
	The Judiciary Committee prepared and
carried through the United States Senate a
bill to suppress polygamy in Utah, which
also prohibited women from voting, and
established the English Common Law con-
cerning wives in the form "in which it ex-
isted at the time of the Declaration of In-
dependence." The common law, as con-
strued at that date, gave to every husband
the "custody of his wife's person," the right
to "give her moderate correction," the right
to keep her by constraint, the right to all
her money. It took from the wife every
thing, rights of person, rights of property,
blotted out her legal existence; and left her
with the one right to be maintained. A
right which is accorded to idiots and town
paupers.
	For this enormity Senator Frelinghuysen,
of New Jersey, is especially responsible.
Under the covert expression, "The common
law as it existed at the time of the adoption
of the Declaration of Independence," he
struck a dastardly blow at every right of the
married women of that Territory. The bill
passed the Senate but was defeated in the
House by the active opposition of Mr. Sar-
geant of California, (now senator from that
State) and by other representatives, so the
women of Utah still vote.
	"A Memorial, in behalf of Woman Suffrage,
was presented to the Massachusetts Legis-
lature, signed by Lydia Maria Child, Eliza-
beth Stuart Phelps, Louisa M. Alcott, Abby
W. May and many others; also a Memorial
headed by John M. Forbes, Ingersoll Bow-
ditch, Dr. Samuel G. Howe, Gov. Claflin,
Wm. Boyd Garrison, and a long list of
worthy names. Both were refered to a joint
special committee. Nearly a week's time
was devoted to its discussion, and at each
session the galleries, aisles, and all available
standing space in the House of Representa-
tives were literally crowded with men and
women, eager listeners to the debate. The
vote was taken on the same day, and imme-
diately after the vote for the United States
[Column 2]
Senator, and was lost, 77 Republicans voting
for and 121 against it; 17 Democrats voting
against and 2 for it. This action was taken,
in spite of the square and complete endorse-
ment of Woman Suffrage in the platform of
the Republican party.
	Since it thus appears that men will allow
themselves to accept nominations to the
Legislature, while they feel no moral or hon-
orable obligation to support the platform on
which they were elected, the Massachusetts
Woman Suffrage Society have voted to form
Woman Suffrage Political Clubs, united by
the following pledge:
	"We, the undersigned men and women,
citizens of Massachusetts, of all political
parties, believing that Woman Suffrage is a
vital political issue, do hereby organize our-
selves into a WOMAN SUFFRAGE POLITICAL
CLUB, for the purpose of forwarding the
Movement, morally and politically—by the
systematic circulation of tracts and newspa-
pers, by holding public meetings, and espe-
cially by helping to elect the friends of suf-
frage to the Legislature and to defeat its op-
ponents."
	Two such clubs are already formed, one
in Dorchester and one in Lawrence. Thus
is begun the seed sowing for a new party,
by those who know that God works with
those who work for principle, and that every
law of the universe is on the side of those
who side with justice.
	The Massachusetts society has circulated
a large number of tracts the past year, and
added to its former list three new tracts by
Geo. F. Hoar, T. W. Higginson and Mary
F. Eastman. It is now arranging for a se-
ries of Conventions to be held in most of the
large towns and cities of the State, with a
special view to forming Woman Suffrage
Political Clubs.
	The growth of public sentiment in favor
of the interests of Woman is steady, every
day growing wider in its scope.
	The higher education of Woman was
very ably discussed at the Social Science
meeting in Boston, and the subject was
more widely noticed and considered by the
newspaper press of the country than ever
before. Perhaps the most noticeable fact on
this point is the establishment of the Boston
University on the basis of equal opportuni-
ties for men and women in all its depart-
ments. Four ladies, who passed excellent
examinations, are already members of the
Classical course. Every College or Univer-
sity, which has admitted Woman, reports
good results, and in no instance where they
have ever been admitted have women after-
wards been excluded.
	A convention of Woman ministers was
held in Boston last May, with very satisfac-
tory results. Twenty ladies were present
who had been regularly ordained, most of
them are settled in charge of congregations
and are laboring with much acceptance as
ministers. A Woman's Peace Meeting was
also held, about the same time, giving the
voice and influence of Woman for peace.
Both these meetings were under the special
care of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.
	Several ladies are in successful practise of
the law. Mrs. Hapgood Nash is the law
partner of her husband in Maine; Phebe
Couzzins in St. Louis; Miss Hewlett in Illi-
nois, and Mrs. Lockwood in Washington, are
each admitted to the bar as regular practi-
tioners. Four women in Michigan Univer-
sity are in the law department. Dental col-
leges in Philadelphia, Baltimore and Cincin-
nati admit women.
	Women physicians are more numerous ev-
ery year, and are as successful as men. In-
deed, Woman's place in the medical profes-
sion is so well established that efforts are be-
[Column 3]
ingmade to give her access to greater advan-
tages for study, as a matter of necessity.
	Training schools for nurses have been es-
tablished in Boston and New York.
	In New Jersey women have been made
eligible to the office of school trustee, and
several have been elected, while in Massa-
chusetts a large number have been elected
members of the school committees. The
Legislature of New Hampshire voted that
the women of that state were not competent
to vote on school committees. One is not
surprised at this, when we know that the
same Legislature passed a law giving any
married man whose wife had been insane
twelve months, a right to sell her real estate.
The insane married woman, in New Jersey,
whose reason is restored after thirteen
months, returns to find her property confis-
cated and with no power to get it back. Is
it strange that a body of men who could pass
such a law should think that women were
not competent to serve on school commit-
tees?
	Quite a number of women have been
elected County Superintendents of public
instruction in Illinois and Kansas. The law
making women eligible to this and other of-
fices connected with public instruction in
Illinois, was enacted at the instance of Hon.
J. B. Bradwell. The Supreme Court of
Illinois has decided that a wife may con-
tract, sue and be sued, may earn, own and
enjoy property on an equality with her hus-
band.
	The Common Council of St. Louis reject-
ed the petition oi one thousand women of
that city, asking for the repeal of an odious
city ordinance by which houses of prostitu-
tion are licensed,and women subjected, legal-
ly [?] to the grossest indignity. But the
Rev. Geo. Eliot brought suit in the courts,
and obtained a decision declaring the ordi-
nance unconstitutional. It is understood
that those who desire to continue the license
of this sin, will appeal to the Supreme Court.
	The circuit court of the state of New
York decided, in the case of Miss Anthony
and other women, who claimed their right
to vote under the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
amendments, that their votes were illegal,
and a fine was imposed on Miss Anthony.
Thus the law holds that to be a crime, when
done by a woman, which is praiseworthy and
right when done by a man.
	"Scribner's Monthly," the "Churchman,"
and other conservative publications have
lately attempted to revive the fading idea
of the ownership of wives by their hus-
bands. But the great Methodist church has
stricken out the word "obey" from its mar-
riage service. and all the Protestant sects,
except the Episcopal, are fast following the
example. And in many of our States, the
past year has witnessed important modifica-
tions of the property laws for wives, all in
the direction of equality in the marriage re-
lation. Nowhere has there been any re-
verse legislation. The High Courts of Hin-
dostan have affirmed the right of a widow
to the independent use of property inherited
from her deceased husband. Everywhere,
spite of Dr. Holland and the "Churchman,"
the tendency is to equality of rights between
husband and wife, and between man and
woman in all the relations of life.
	LUCY STONE.	Chairman Ex. Com.


California, it is stated, pays more Internal
Revenue tax than five of the New England
States together.

	The nomination for the Chief-Justiceship, of
Attorney-General Williams is not popular.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR,

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonparcil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, 1873.


SPLINTERS.

	Mrs. Livermore arraigns "The Hub" city
for spending, last year, $41, 000 for refresh-
ments for the city government while only
$4,000 was paid for soup for the poor......A
young girl, of Peoria, Ill., lately became
hopelessly insane through over study and
anxiety to secure a first prize at school...The
college at Greencastle, Ind., which admits
women, lately received $100,000, donated by
a citizen of that place......The king of Siam
has established two English schools in his
dominions where the sons of his nobles are
to be educated......The three great Moslem
sovereigns, the Sultan of Turkey, Shah of
Persia and Viceroy of Egypt were born in
1830......Nilsson patronized Worth, the Paris
dressmaker......Mrs. H. Pendleton, the au-
thor of "Human Development" is President
of a Woman's Medical College......The late
Mrs. Alfred Gatly, of England, produced a
considerable number of very delicately exe-
cuted and tasteful etchings which were
published in book form......Sir Edwin Land-
seer, the celebrated English artist, was late-
ly buried in St. Paul's Cathedral. A large
number of members and associates of the
Royal Academy, artists, literary men, and
lovers of art attended the obsequies......The
Emperor William of Germany intends to
present a painting of the grand review of
the Prussian troops at Potsdam, to the king
of Italy who was present. The picture is to
be executed by Prof. Menzel......The death
is announced of the celebrated Italian sculpt-
or, Constantino Corti......In Brooklyn, New
York, travel on the horse railways is said to
have greatly diminished...It has lately been
discovered that iron filings are put into tea
as an adulteration, not so much to increase
the weight as to give color to the infusion
......In the southern part of the Russian Em-
pire, a female Savior is said to have appeared,
who claims to be the daughter of God, and
to have come to suffer for the redemption of
her sex, as Christ did for the world.


BE POLITE.

	WE do not see why some of the students
who, as well as the rest, are making great
exertions to acquire knowledge and fit
themselves for high positions in the world,
should be so ignorant of the common rules of
politeness as not to be able to reach their
hands to their hats. 'Tis true, such ceremo-
nies are of the least importance in the edu-
cation of a true gentleman, for the practise
of hat tipping may be acquired by one de-
void of all principle; yet it denotes good
breeding, and as it is a custom so identified
with a courteous gentleman, it affects us dis-
agreeably to receive a stiff nod instead of
the greater exertion acquired by politeness.
	The fact of wearing a gold watch and
the "abandon" of manner affected, does not
point out the gentleman; for the true gen-
tleman can only grow out of true manhood,
whose purity of thought and high princi-
ples dictate the course of action.
	As we are receiving a universal education,
would it not be beneficial to have introduced
a little instruction in the rules laid down by
Chesterfield, whereby we may imitate the
best of our professors?—Ex.		M.


The Royal Academy, England, instead of
holding the usual winter exhibition of pic-
tures by Old Masters, will devote their rooms
to a complete collection of paintings, draw-
ings, sketches, etc., by Sir Edwin Landseer,
combined with a few works of other artists
of the English school.


THE LIVING SOUL.

	As the soul is the man, and the material
body only his house while upon the earth, a
man is never really buried. No human
being since the beginning of the world has
ever yet been buried, no, not even for the
space of a few moments—buried! How
can a living soul be buried? Man is where
his conscious being is—his memory, his love,
his imagination; and since that cannot be
put into the grave, the man is never put
there. So far from being our last home, the
grave is not our home at all, for we are
never laid in it, nor go near it. Happy the
day when all shall learn that corpses are the
departed garments of living men and wo-
men—Temples of God, in which divine ser-
vice is over and finished, the chanting hush-
ed, the isles deserted, and to be contempla-
ed with as little terror as the dilapidated
walls of some ancient, time-worn cathedral.
—Rex.


ANNOTATION.

	In the present issue of the EXPONENT, will
be found a lengthy report of the doings, for the
past year, of the American Woman Suffrage
Association. We give place to it, believing
that it will be perused with interest by our
readers.
	The fact that the women of Utah enjoy, in
many respects, more freedom than is granted to
women in other parts of the world, does not
give to the intelligent ones among them any
disposition to boast of the advantages they
hold over the less favored of their sex. But
rather creates within them a sympathetic de-
sire to see all others possess as many valuable
privileges and blessings as are enjoyed by them-
selves. We would also have it understood that
the women of Utah are not unappreciative nor
ungrateful for the interest which was mani-
fested in their behalf by the American Woman
Suffrage Association, in its active efforts to de-
feat the Frelinghuysen bill, which was intended
to deprive them of the right of suffrage. Al-
though the action on the part of the Associa-
tion was made in the common cause of women
throughout the Union, yet its immediate bene-
fits were none the less realized by the ladies of
this Territory in the maintaining of their right
to the elective franchise. We consider the ac-
tion displayed a liberal and unsectarian spirit,
strangely in contrast to many who would either
manifest indifference, or, what is still worse,
take active part in seeking to deprive their fel-
low citizens, by unjust legislation, of their con-
stitutional rights.
	In concluding we offer, in behalf of those inter-
ested, our cordial acknowledgments, both, to
all the ladies who so truly befriends the wo-
men of Utah, and also to Senator Sargent for
his able opposition to the gross wrong intend-
ed.


ANNIVERSARY OF THE BIRTHDAY
  OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH.

	Tuesday, the 23rd instant, will be the 67th
anniversary of the birthday of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, first President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. On the
evening of that day a Social Party, under the
supervision of Mrs. E, Davis, will be given in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms in this city, in
commemoration of the day. Dancing will be
interspersed with appropriate songs and short
speeches from some of the senior Elders of the
church, who were associated with the Prophet
during his life. The proceeds of the party will
be devoted to the interests of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT.


ACKNOWLEDGMENT.

	In a large assembly of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association, on the
6th of December, 1873, the following resolu-
tions were read and unanimously adopted:

	Resolved, That inasmuch as Mrs. Lambert
(late Miss Mary A. Jenkins,) has cheerfully,
faithfully and efficiently discharged her duties
as Secretary of this Association, we deem this
acknowledgment due as a just tribute to un-
assuming merit.
	Resolved, That while we manifest our appre-
ciation of her services, which were only with-
drawn on her departure with her husband on a
mission to the Sandwich Islands, we also ex-
press our commendation of this young lady's
amiable deportment, which has been in every
respect exemplary, irreproachable and worthy
of imitation.
	Resolved, That we unite our faith and
prayers in behalf of this, our young sister, her
husband and all with whom they are associ-
ated as missionaries.

	On motion it was decided that the foregoing
resolutions be published in WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT and a copy forwarded to the Islands.
	MRS. M. I. HORNE, President,
				MISS ANNA SMITH, Secretary.


EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT.

	Improvements in the arrangements  of
schools, methods of teaching, and in the choice
of teachers, are taking a decided and pleasing
prominence in the grand march of progress, in
this Territory as well as in other portions of
the world. No changes which are marking the
present era of time, can be of a more satis-
factory nature, and none could be more neces-
sary.
	In time past, it has been with the teachers
of youth here, too much as with the clergy
abroad. Parents have thought that their chil-
dren must go to school, no matter what sort of
a school was taught; neighborhoods have con-
sidered that schools of some kind must be es-
tablished within their precincts, even if they
had to pay high prices to persons totally unfit
to fill the positions of teachers. Just as men
having no ability for accomplishing anything,
have been installed in the pulpit, in different
parts of the world, as teachers, of the gospel.
	Often, in consequence of a want of educa-
tion and reflection, parents and guardians have
thought that one would do very well as a tutor
and overseer of little children, if he were so un-
fortunate as not to be naturally gifted with a
common portion of good sense, or even though
his moral character might be questionable.
	Utah however, as probably many other por-
tions of country when newly populated, until


late years has been in a great measure excu-
sable for the supporting of schools of inferior
quality. When all the inhabitants of her com-
munities who could and would work at man-
ual labor, were compelled to do so for the sub-
sistence of themselves and their families; how-
ever much natural abilities or education might
have enabled many of them to excel as in-
structors of the young, there was little room
for choice as to who should be the common
educators of the children.
	But happily, that period is passing away, and
brighter ideas of better methods are being
molded into practical shape. Men and women
of superior talents, great force, energy and
strength of character are coming forward to
aid the genuine cause of real advancement.
And present appearances indicate profitable
and gratifying results.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


HOME AFFAIRS.

	LATE COMMUNICATIONS from Cache Val-
ley, inform us, that very severe cold weather
has been experienced there during the past
few weeks,and that a greater depth of snow
has fallen than has been known for several
years.
	PRESIDENT YOUNG has again retired to
his Sonthern home in St. George, where,
we are pleased to learn, he is in the enjoy-
ment of good health.
	CHRISTMAS is again "at the door," and
will have made his cheery call and passed
by before another number of the EXPONENT
is issued. So we take the present opportu-
nity of wishing our friends, one and all a
"Merry Christmas."


[Column 1]
	LOVE LETTERS OF EMINENT
			PERSONS.

	In one of his celebrated essay, Lord Ma-
cauly discusses the love letters of Sir Wil-
liam Temple. He says he would very wil-
lingly exchange tons of State papers for a
very moderate amount of these love letters.
The letters of William Temple to his Doro-
thy are certainly interesting enough, and at
this time of the year especially, may be as-
sociated with wider and deeper sympathies
than the Triple Alliance. Macauly says he
would very much like to know what proofs
of tenderness a young lady would be per-
mitted to give her lover. We should for
our own part have thought that this was a
dangerous and distracting subject for his-
torical investigation, fraught with decided
peril to the historic mind. The first idea is
that the manners and customs of lovers do
not greatly vary in any age. This, however,
would perhaps be a mistake. In the dia-
logues of Erasmus the young lady refuses
to give her betrothed a single kiss, classically
observing, "Ut me totam iilibatamaque tibi
trodam." In some shades of society cares-
ses have been strictly inhibited, and it is in-
teresting to see that Lord Macaulay had di-
rected his powerful mind toward the eluci-
dation of the subject. In the opinion of
another great writer, with whom Macaulay's
mind had much in sympathy, we mean
Alexander Pope, love letters lay at the
foundation of all literature. He describes
how they “speed the soft intercourse from
soul to soul:"
Heaven first taught letters for some wretch’s aid—
Some banished lover, or some captive maid;
They live, they speak, they breathe what love inspires,
Warm from the soul, and faithful to its fires;
The Virgin’s wish, without her fears impart,
Excuse the blush, and pour out all the heart.
	Most of us know by heart Tennyson's 

[Column 2]
pretty little poem about "The Letters,” how
“she gave my letters back to me,” which
the young lover refused to receive:
	She told me all her friends had said,
		I raged against the public liar;
	She spoke as if her love were dead,
		But in my words were seeds of fire.
	I spoke with heat, and strength and force;
		I shook her breast with vague alarms—
	Like torrents from a mountain’s source—
		We rushed into each other’s arms.

	Love letters form part of the choicest ma-
chinery of the poet and the novelist. Pope’s
own letters, whether to Lady Mary Wortley
Montague, or to Erinna, or to Martha Blount,
are probably love letters, and we shall watch
with much interest their elucidation by
Whitwell Elwin. One of our most popular
novelists discusses with much force the great
value of these letters, and how men who
are unable by word of mouth to do them-
selves justice can nevertheless thoroughly
reveal their whole nature in their love let-
ters. This is probably very true. Many
men get on much better in paper work than
in a viva voce examination. At the same
time it must be very puzzling to many
young ladies of the present day to have
highly intellectual letters from their lovers.
They must be greatly puzzled when gentle-
men of a speculative tone of mind, or some
sucking young “lion” of the press of the
future, sets forth his whole nature for Aman-
da or Amata. As a rule the letters of any
genius with a gift of utterance must cause
decided wonderment to the fiancee who will
probably mainly rely upon the endearing
expressions at the beginning and end, or
any wax kisses that may be discovered on
the envelope. We have heard it suggested
that young ladies in such difficulties had
better apply to their brothers at college.
That the subject of love may not loose its
power over the minds of young men, ob-
serve that the sapient authorities of the
University of Cambridge have given as the
subject of a gold medal this year,
	"Hominun Divuugue voluptas
	Alma Venus."
	The love letters of eminent persons are
generally letters written before they became
eminent. A great author will not confine
his intellectual efforts to the penny post
when a publisher will handsomely remuner-
ate him for revealing them to the world.
In the case of poets a large part of their ef-
fusions might without much straining, be
brought within the category of love letters.
But then other “eminences" mostly write
their love letters before they achieve great-
ness or have greatness forced upon them.
This is a great consolation for the lawyer
that can get no briefs, the doctor that can
get no practice, the young politician who can-
not get a seat, and the young writer who has
his articles rejected. They can take it out
in their love letters. I am sorry for any
eminent man who has to engage in this de-
scription of correspondence. According to
the old joke the lawyer might tie up his let-
ters with red tape, and the physician may
make a muddle of his prescription. Love
letters must take it out of a man, and, in
point of fact, love-making requires an
amount of time and concentration of pur-
pose that can be ill-spared from professional
pursuits. Eminence generally means effort,
and a man in full work cannot afford time
for such ludibria lunce. They form the glo-
rious privilege of leisure and youth.
	Among the more remarkable love letters
is the celebrated volume of “Foster’s Es-
says.” We believe that all these remarka-
ble essays were originally written to the lady 
to whom he was engaged. McDonald makes
one of his novels simply autobiographical;
love letters written by a man to vindicate

[Column 3]
his character in the eyes of the woman he
loved. Literary men are not always so vol-
uminous in this description of epistle. We
once detected a very able reviewer in the
weakness of writing a love letter. “I’ll
not detain you long,” he observed; “I never
give the young women more than a 'short
notice.'" The young reviewer ought to have
written his letters a year or two before; he
had now too much work on hand. There is
a glorious old poet, Thomson, the author of
“The Seasons,” who shows a sad gleam of ro-
mance in his verses to Amanda.—From
London Society.


﻿FORGET-ME-NOT.—In the'Gardner’s Mag-
azine is related an interesting incident of
a lady gardener who gathered a handful of
the world renowned flower forget-me-not,
and to preserve them as long a period as pos-
sible, they were put in a soup-plate filled
with rain-water. The flowers were placed
near the window. In a surprisingly short
space of time threadlike roots were emitted
from the portion of the flower-stalks in the
water, and they ultimately formed a thick
net-work over the plate. The flowers re-
mained quite fresh, excepting a few of the
most advanced, when gathered, and as soon
as the roots began to run in the water, the
buds began to expand, to take the place of
those which faded, and up to the middle of
November the boquet— if it may be called
—was a dense mass of flowers, and a more
beautiful or chaste ornament for the indoor
apartment cannot be imagined.


HUMOROUS.

	A HEAD-wind—A sneeze.
	SKY-LIGHTS—Sun, moon and stars.
	YOUNG LADIES economy—never throw
away a good match.
	A GOOD-NATURED spinster used to boast
that she always had two good beaux; they
were elbows.
	Jones got trusted for that hat, and he now
feels a consciousness of being in debt, “over
head and ears.”
	A POLITICAL Orator, speaking of a cer-
tain general whom he admired, said he was
always on the field of battle where the bul-
lets were the thickest.
	“Where was that?"
	“In the ammunition wagon."
	A QUAKER gentleman riding in a carriage
with a fashionable lady decked with a pro-
fusion of jewelry, heard her complain of the
cold. Shivering in her lace bonnet and
shawl as light as a cobweb, she exclaimed,
“What shall I do to get warm?" "I really
don’t know,” replied the Quaker, solemnly’
“unless thee should put on another breast-
pin.”
	AN ENGLISH officer was present with the
King of Prussia at a review of his gigantic
regiment: “Would an equal number of your
Englishmen beat my guards?” asked his
Majesty. “I dont know, sire; but half the
number would try."
	A WEALTHY parvenu lately gave the
church which he attends two tablets of stone,
with the Ten Commandments engraved
upon them; whereupon a witty lady mem-
ber of the church remarked that his reason
for giving away the Commandments was
that he could'nt keep them.


The Erie Canal is closed!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIFE.

There's a poison drop in the purest cup.
That earth born mortals are doomed to sup;
There are piercing thorns on the brightest rose,
Which beauty and fragrance on earth bestows.

There are darts of death in the fleecy clouds,
And they're changed too oft into deathly shrouds
As they gather in storms on the ocean wide,
Where thousands are sunk in its foaming tide.

The brightest smiles and most joyous throbs
Change alas! too often to tears and sobs;
And aching hearts in deep anguish cry
As their shattered idols in ruins lie.

The frost still kills the fairest flower,
And the sunshine's hid by the passing shower,
And flinty stones the pathway line,
That leads to the haven of love's pure shrine.

Yet would you shrink from the nectar's brink
Afraid of the poison deep to drink;
Or withdraw your hand from the blushing rose,
When pierced by the thorn that near it grows?

Would you bid the thunder cease to roll
And silence the death knell's solemn toll?
These bid the poisoned mists depart,
And life and vigor anew impart.

Would you cease to smile because tears are shed,
Because joy so oft is to sorrow wed?
If idols are shattered and torn away,
we will find them again in the Brighter Day.

Would ye cease to sow the germs of life,
Because the seeds of death are rife?
Or cease to seek for love's pure shrine?
Life's thorns are planted by hands divine.

Howe'er so bitter may seem the cup,
'Tis a voice of love that bids us sup;
And a gentle hand will guide us still,
If we but bend our own, wild will.

Our will to His, our God and Friend,
Who doth love's purest blessings send;
And guides us in the narrow way,
That leads to Life's Eternal Day.
							HOPE.


[Column 1]
	       
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	ORDER.––Never leave things lying about
–– a shawl here, a pair of slippers there, and 
a bonnet somewhere else, trusting to a ser-
vant to set things right. No matter how
many servants you have, it is a miserable
habit, and if its source is not in the intel-
lectual and moral character, it will inevita-
bly terminate there. Children should be
taught to put things back in their places as
soon as they are old enough to use them.
If each member of the family were to ob-
serve this rule, the house would never get 
much out of order, and a large amount of
vexation and useless labor would be avoided.
	TABLE CONVERSATION.––A great deal of
character is imparted and received at table.
Parents too often forget this; and therefore,
instead of swallowing your food in sullen
silence, instead of brooding over your busi-
ness, instead of severely talking about others, 
let the conversation at the table be genial,
kind, social and cheering. Do not bring dis-
agreeable things to the table in your conver-
sation any more than in dishes. For this
reason, too, the more good company you
have at your table, the better for your chil-
dren. Every conversation, with company at
the table, is an educator of the family.
	WHAT MAKES A CHEERFUL TEMPER.––
If by chance one stumbles on a  household
where the woman does not disdain house-
wifery work, and especially the practical su-
perintendence of the kitchen, there we may
be sure we shall find cheerfulness and con-
tent. There seems to be something in the 
life of a practical housekeeper that answers
to the needs of a woman's best nature, and
that makes her pleasant and good-tempered.
Perhaps it is the conciousness that she is do-
ing her duty––of itself a wonderful sweet-
ener of nature; perhaps the greater amount
of bodily exercise keeps the liver in good

[Column 2]

tone; whatever the cause, sure it is that
homes of the active housekeepers are more
harmonious than those of the reckless and
do-nothing sort.
	TO DETECT COPPER IN PICKLES OR
GREEN TEA.––Put a few leaves of the tea
or some of the pickle, cut small, into a phial,
with two or three drachms of liquid ammo-
nia, diluted with one half the quantity of
water. Shake the phial, when, if the most
minute portion of copper is present, the
liquid will assume a fine blue color.
	ICEING FOR CAKE.––One pound of pul-
verized sugar, the whites of five eggs. Beat
the whites until very dry, to which add the
sugar very gradually, a teaspoonful at a
time until all is added. Put on the first
coating without thinning. Make the second
sufficiently thing with lemon juice or rose-
water to go on smoothly. Put in a warm
place to dry.
	ANTIDOTE FOR POISON.––A poison of any
conceivable description and degree of poren-
cy, which has been swallowed intentionally
or by accident, it is said, may be rendered
almost instantaneously harmless by swal-
lowing two gills of sweet oil. An individ-
ual with a very strong constitution should 
take double the quantity. The oil will neu-
tralize every form of vegitable or mineral
poison with which physicians are acquainted.
	SPICED TOMATOES.––To four pounds of
large, red tomatoes, take two pounds of good
brown sugar, a pint of cider vinegar, half
an ounce of cloves, and half an ounce of 
stick cinnamon. Stew all together in a pre-
serving kettle over a slow fire, until the to-
matoes are nearly cooked. Take them out
and put them on dishes to cool, letting the
syrup go on simmering slowly. When the
tomatoes are cold, return them to the syrup
and finish cooking. Let them become cold 
before putting them into jars. The syrup
must be boiled down as thick as molasses,
and poured cold over the tomatoes. Tie them
down with bladder or waxed paper.
	A VALUABLE CEMENT.––The following is
a useful cement to fasten objects of wood to
others of metal, glass, stone, etc. Good
cabinet makers glue is warmed up with wa-
ter to the consistency necessary to connect
wooden objects; then add enough sifted ash-
es to bring it to the thickness of a varnish.
The cement should be applied to the surface
of the objects to be united when warm, and
then they should be pressed together tight-
ly. After cooling and drying, the surfaces
are so strongly united as to require great 
force to separate them. Grinding stones
fastened on wood, and handles to painters'
stones for grinding colors' have been used
for more than a year without exhibiting any
appearance of fracture.
	LEMONS FOR FEVER.––Says Dr. Hall;
When persons are feverish beyond what is
natural, indicated in some cases by a metallic
taste in the mouth, especially after drinking
water, or by whitish appearances on the 
greater part of the surface of the tongue;
one of the best "coolers," internal or exter-
nal, is to take a lemon, cut off the top, sprin-
kle over it some loaf sugar, working it down
into the lemon with a spoon, and then suck
it slowly, squeezing the lemon, and adding 
more sugar as the acidity increases from be-
ing brought up from a lower point. Inva-
lids with feverishness may take two or three
lemons a day in this manner with the most 
marked benefit, manifested by a sense of 
coolness, comfort, and invigoration. A lemon
or two thus taken at tea-time, as an entire
substitute for the ordinary supper of Sum-
mer, would give many a comfortable night's

[Column 3]
sleep, and an awakening after rest and in-
vigoration, with an appetite for breakfast to
which they are strangers who will have their
cup of tea for supper, or "relish" and "cake,"
and their berries or peaches and cream.


MORNING.

	How many times has my heart been glad-
dened by the rising of the sun over the hills
of the old homestead, where the corn and
clover sparkled with the dew, and the new-
ly headed wheat nodded lazily to and fro in
the enchanting breeze, as spring and sum-
mer joined hands for the coming harvest.
I looked upon the broad fields with a proud
eye then, for I thought every speckled corn-
tassel and budding kernel gave promise of
much happiness. But as the brightest
morning may be darkened by the clouds
that seemed so beautiful when far away, so
our lives may be shadowed by the approach
of that which was wont to dazzle our eyes
with its deceptive glory. But however
darkly the gloom may gather, we know
there is always "sunshine above the mist."
	It is natural for us to look back upon our
childhood, and liken it to the morning; be-
cause the horizon of our life has never since
seemed so bright, nor music of the birds by
the wayside so sweet, nor the breath of the
flowers so fragrant; and our friends, un-
masked of our childish confidence by the
noonday sun, have never since proved so
true.
	There is always a charm hovering over
the morning; and its magical presence lends
beauty to every thing we see or hear.
Would you listen to music? It may be
grand at night—it is sublime in the morn-
ing! Would you know a friend? Meet him
in the morning. You will then find him
more as God made him, than after the en-
chanted hour has passed. Would you look
upon Niagara, or some old silvery-browed
mountain? Go, while yet the darkness lin-
gers near, and see how they smile upon the
morning.
	Glorious morning! We can almost im-
agine heaven nearer as you approach; for in
heaven it is almost morning.—Hebrew.


SCENES ON TURUAI.

	      SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN.

	On the 4th of January, 1851, Elder B. F.
Grouard, Br. Pratt's missionary companion,
made a great feast, to celebrate his 33d birth-
day. It was at his own dwelling house; a
building 70 feet long, without a partition;
in which three families lived, one at each
end, and one in the centre, each knowing
its own boundaries: room plenty, cooking
all done outside.
	The manner in which the house was built;
showed taste and ingenuity. Timbers up-
right, sticks woven between, like a willow
basket, plastered out side and in, with lime,
made from the coral rock, white as new fall-
en snow. The roof, a thatching of the leaves
of the "Farra" tree, a foot in thickness, im-
pervious to both rain and heat.
	To this feast a hundred guests were in-
vited. The food was purely native, with
the exception of fifty mince pies, made by
four American women, who were there with
their families, belonging to the mission.
The pies were made for the special occasion,
and acknowledged to be of superior quality.
The ground floor of the house was first cov-
ered with long coarse grass, thickly lain;
then broad mats spread through the centre,
from end to end, answering the purpose of


both table and seats. Then table cloths of
plaited leaves, on which the food was lain,
independent of dishes. Then large leaves
the size of dining plates were placed in or-
der around; these last were in the place of
china. The cocoa nuts, containing the sweet
milk, which we were to drink instead of tea,
were made to stand erect, so as to be used for
drinking cups; (one to each plate,) plucked
at an early stage, when the milk is delight-
ful drink. The rough bark taken off, the
shell of a pale yellow, contrasted beautifully
with the dark green leaves. The pigs, fowls
and fishes, were cooked whole, by the na-
tives, in ovens made in the ground; served
up as neatly, unbroken, and unbruised, as
any white woman in the world could have
prepared them. Then the fruits of the Island,
a score of varieties, were interspersed, giving
a charm to the whole.
	I have seen tables adorned with the costli-
est dishes, but never did my admiration rise
so high on any like occasion, as at the sight
of that table! When all were seated around,
Brother Grouard called on the Lord in the
Tahitian tongue, which we could mostly un-
derstand; and rendered thanks, that he had
lived to see that day; for which he had so
fervently longed, for eight successive years,
when Elders would come to his relief, and he
be at liberty to return to the church. It was
truly an affecting scene, cheerful as everything
appeared. Those of us who knew him best,
knew what he had mentally suffered, in that
secluded world, among a people who, though
they clung to him with the devotion of chil-
dren for a parent, were incapable of com-
panionship for a man in every way consti-
tuted to enjoy society of a high order; and
though he might love them for their artless
innocence, there could be no interchanging
of corresponding sentiments between them to
satisfy the longings of an aspiring mind.
	After the dinner was over, the lord of the
feast made an appropriate and pathetic
speach in his own language, (interpreting to
the Island guests,) relative to his joy in greet-
ing so many of his old friends on that for-
eign shore—the missionaries with their fam-
ilies had but newly arrived—and how he
felt repaid for his years of solitude, in see-
ing our faces once more in the flesh. A strong
sense of duty had bound him there, as he
had been instructed previous to leaving Nau-
voo, not to build up churches, and leave them
without an Elder to preside: he had been
true to his trust. After receiving hearty con-
gratulations; he further remarked, that if he
lived 33 years more, which would bring him
to his 66th year, he would make another
feast, and invite us all, if we were living
on the earth. We all expressed wishes that
it might be so, however great the uncer-
tainty.
	A few words, I must say about the dresses
of the native sisters: Their dresses were
principally of fine bleached domestic; there
were a few pink muslins; long, lose robes,
reaching below their feet, which were bare:
these robes were as neatly washed and ironed
as they could be done. The younger women
wore wreaths of flowers about their heads
and necks, and flowers in their ears for jewel-
ry. Flowers in January, natural ones; fine-
ly scented; and the only kind prized by the
native women. "Oh," thought I, "here in
this little world" (I could walk around it in
a day,) "stern winter does not come! No
biting frost, no ice or snow. The God of na-
ture has set their bounds—'Thus far canst
thou come and no further'"	L. B. P.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The Empress of China and her mother were
lately thrown from their carriage into a pond
but escaped unhurt.


FEMININE BEAUTY.

	The loveliest adornment of perfect wo-
manhood is unconsciousness of self. If the
woman possessed of this rare virtue be lack-
ing in physical beauty, nay, even plain, there
is an air in her innocence and simplicity
more potent than the smiles of the fairest
featured siren that ever deluded the sus-
ceptible heart of man. There is something
in the presence of a vain and pretentious
woman that, be she ever so fair, repulses
rather than attracts admiration. She is re-
garded only for the symmetry of her form
and features, and like a cold and senseless
statue of stone, her eyes never change or
lose their fixed and soulless expression; they
never lighten up with the beauty of thought
nor sparkle with the conception of any new
and sublime idea; their changeless look is
not the repose of peace, nor the steady gaze
of unchanging happiness—it is only the
fixed stare of a heartless, worldly woman,
whose only thought is of self; who is ever
insensible to the pleasure of doing good to
others—an expression of unchangeable
selfishness.
	True beauty lies in the hidden perfections
of the soul. The most lovely type of per-
fect womanhood is the being whose heart is
not insensible to refined and tender feelings
that mingles and blends itself with every
act and deed of her life. No feminine face
is truly beautiful that does not wear, to a 
certain extent, an expression of content-
ment and repose. Ruskin has said: "Do
not think you can make a girl lovely if you
do not make her happy. There is not one
restraint you can put on a good girl's nature—
there is not one check you give to her in-
stincts of affection or of effort—which will
not be indelibly written on her features with
a hardness all the more painful because it
takes away the brightness from the brow of
virtue. The perfect loveliness of a woman's
countenance can only consist in the majestic
peace which is found in the memory of hap-
py and useful years, full of sweet records;
and from the joining of this with that yet
more majestic childishness, which is still
full of change and promise, opening always,
modest at once and bright with hope of bet-
ter things to be won and to be bestowed.
There is no old age where there is still that
promise—it is eternal youth."—Ex.


[For the EXPONENT
		LITTLE GRAVES.

	Little graves—they are sacred things,
holding through all the long vista of years a
hallowed spot in our memories. Our minds
are carried back to a time that seems but
yesterday, as we contemplate the little
mound of earth which covers what we once
considered our chief treasure. How we
clasped the little forms to our hearts, fondly
thinking that our holy love could protect
them from every harm; but sickness and
pain laid hold of them, and all our strongest
efforts were unavailable. Death, grim and
relentless claims them and we can only
weep over the icy forms which but a few
short hours before were warm, breathing,
loving human beings. And we are fain to
acknowledge the strength of that grim
hand, that can change to lifeless clay the
glowing beauty and bright impulses of the
treasured forms. How quickly the hand of
decay marks its progress! All too soon the
lovely form must be robed in the habiliments
of the grave. The cold, clods fall upon the
coffin lid; and colder yet upon our hearts is
every sound that shuts them from our sight
forever! Forever? No! it is not forever!


Only a few short days, or years perhaps,
and we shall all be gathered to that un-
known land, to meet the angel forms that
wait to give us welcome there. And yet,
in those short years, what changes come!
New ties spring up around us, and other
little forms claim our love and care. New
joys surround us, new sorrows cross our
paths: and often when we kneel in fervent
prayer, we feel to say, Heaven's will be
done; 'tis better thus, our little ones should
sleep, and know no care, nor grief of life's
dark hours. God is all merciful, and in his
care no pain or toil or dark unhallowed pas-
sions fix their impress on the immortal soul.
No taint of crime, or guilt can reach the
heart that went so innocent and pure.
	Oh Thou great power supreme! Who
holdest the destinies of our poor, erring
hearts, say, hast thou seen some merciful
providence, in strewing thus our land with
little graves?
	Let us gaze with reverence on these way-
marks of our mortality; and when our long-
ing hearts are filled with high ambitious
thoughts, and love of gold or fame or emi-
nence shall fill our minds, we'll kneel beside
our buried hopes, and know that all our
cherished plans, our worldly hopes and fears,
our pleasure or despair, must end in this—
the grave.—
	Kneeling beside those little mounds, we
may shed grateful tears, and ask in prayer
the holy power that guides our daily walks,
that our paths may all be filled with peace,
and love, aud righteousness; that we may
so live that when our souls are called hence,
we may join the angel bands, and rejoice
with the faithful where sin and sorrow en-
ter not.						M. J. T.
	Provo.


For the EXPONENT.
			WHAT I LIKE.

	I like to see a countenance calm, pleasant
and intelligent; in which one can behold a
buoyant, confiding spirit, beaming forth,
bright as the morning sun. A soul joyous as
the lark, when, rising from her nest with the
early dews upon her wings she sallies forth
in search of food necessary to sustain her-
self and her young; chirping, singing, fill-
ing the air with her sweet notes of gladness.
	I like a home pleasant and lively. Where
there is a place for every thing, and every
thing is kept in its place. where all the in-
mates perform their duties with alacrity and
delight. Where peace is cultivated and
nourished, as carefully as a judicious gard-
ener would nourish a very choice plant.
Where truth is held in honorable remem-
brance, cherished in every heart, lisped by
every tongue. Where confidence reigns,
and frankness and honesty pervades the cir-
cle. Where slander with her vile tongue is
cast out and trampled under foot as a nox-
ious weed. Where trouble and gloom are
neither invited nor harbored, but vanish
like false shadows. Where industry is
taught, cherished and put into every-day
practise. Where labor instead of being mur-
mured against, is considered healthful exer-
cise, of which a reasonable amount must,
necessarily be taken, in order to expand and
strengthen the various members of the bo-
dy, as well as to enliven and enlarge the fa-
culties of the mind, and keep all the pow-
ers of active being in delightful harmony.
				    HARRIET A. SNOW.
	BRIGHAM CITY.


Agassiz the Famous Naturalist died on the
14th inst.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.
					AGENTS.
 Salt Lake City
Mrs. Zina D. Young,  Mrs. Elvira Barney,
 	          ,, Margt. P. Young,   ,, Amanda Kimball
	          ,, Lily Staines,         ,, Elizabeth Davis,
	          ,, Sarah Smith,         ,, Hampton, 16th
	          ,, Mary J. Thomson,        Ward,
	          ,, Margaret Steel,	    ,, Sarah E. Smith, 
			       Miss Sarah E. Russell.
				CORROSPONDENTS
Mrs. Laura Miner,    Mrs. E. B. Wells, 
 		  ,, A. B. Smith,        Miss Mary E. Cook.
					   AGENTS
Weber County, 
		  ,, A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
				  Oneida County, Idaho.
		Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
			Mary Rich, Paris.
				Rich County
		  ,, Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
		  ,,  Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
				Cache County. 
		  ,, M. A. Maughan, Logan,
		  ,, Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
				Box Elder County.
		  ,, Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
				Davis County.
		  ,, Mary Clark, Farmington,
		  ,, Aurelia Rogers, 	   "
		  ,, Margaret Randell, Centreville,
		  ,, Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
		  ,, Susan Grant,               "
		  ,, Sylvia Clark,		"
				Salt Lake County.
		  ,, — Higgins, West Jordan, 
		  ,, Barbara Moses, agent & cors . Big Cot-
			tonwood. 
				Tooele County.
	Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
	Mrs. E. Clegg,			"	"	
	Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
				Utah County.
		  ,, — Brown, Pleasant Grove, 
		  ,, Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
		  ,, — Harrison,         "
		  ,, Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
				Juab County.
		  ,, Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
		  ,, Ann Pitchforth, 
		  ,, Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
				Sanpete County.
		  ,, M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
			City,
		  ,, Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
		  ,, Helena Madison, Gunnison.
	Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
	Mrs. Mary Thorpe,		"
				Millard County.
		  ,, Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
		  ,, Belinda M. Pratt,        "
	Miss Mary Callister,		"
				Beaver County.
	Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
		  ,, L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors. 
				Iron County.
		  ,, Mary Weimer, Parowan, 
	Miss Josephine Smith,	"
				Kane County.
	Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
		  ,, Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
		Cedar City.
				Washington County.
		  ,, Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
		St George,
		  ,, Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.


AMATEUR COOKERY.

	There is a kitchen millennium approach-
ing, when the occupation of domestic croak-
ers will be gone, and they will have to search
elsewhere for employment, because the ques-
tion of service is to be speedily settled.
"What shall we do with our daughters?"
questions Mrs. Livermore of nearly every
lyceum audience in the country. "Make
cooks of them," answers Mrs. Howe tri-
umphantly, and sets to work at once on her
plan of reformation. It has had a small be-
ginning in the "Girls Club." They meet
every Saturday during the winter. When
it was time for the meetings to cease for the
season, they resolved themselves into a num-
ber of small clubs for work during the sum-
mer. There was a French class formed, an
Italian class, a class in mental philosophy,
another in social analysis, and at Mrs. Howe's
suggestion, a cooking club.
	This is by many the largest class of all,
and decidedly the most enthusiastic. All
manner of experiments are tried; old fami-
ly recipes are hunted up that have been
hidden away because they have been utter-
ly useless, and yet were kept in the family
like a tradition. French cook books are stu-
died with more earnestness than was ever
given to French grammar. The regulation
cook looks on aghast, but as yet says nothing.
She is a trifle more supercilious; she is very
skeptical; she does not believe that this new
enthusiasm will last; she does not dream
that her scepter is falling from her hands to
the dainty white ones open to receive it.
Isn't this the beginning of a social revolu-
tion?
	Every week a supper or dinner or a break-
fast is given at the house of one of the
members, and every one has to contribute
something to the feast: The mysterious
"something" comes in a hand-basket care-
fully packed, and is given into the hands of
the ones who arrange the tables. Then there
is such a flutter of anticipation and eager-
ness until the doors are opened into the
dining-room, when they all flock eagerly out,
first to test each other's cooking. "How
nice that bread looks. Who made it?"
	"Oh! these delicious almond cheese cakes,
where did they come from?"
	"I brought them," calls one; "and what a
time I had with them. I didn't butter my
tins enough, and they broke dreadfully when
I took them out; but I mended every one,
and you never would know."
	"Parker House rolls! Who is up to that, I
wonder?"
	The blonde beauty of the club acknowl-
edges the rolls, and her sister, a young ma-
tron, lays claim to the bread, while the
chicken croquettes are owned by a bright,
black-eyed girl, who, when her duties as act-
ive member of the Cooking Club permits
her, translates biographies from the German
and writes pretty letters for the papers. Of
course these girls are very careful of criticism,
and they praise everything that comes to the
table, as they feel in duty bound to do. But
there is, beyond all this, a test by which
everything is really tried. After the sup-
per is over, a general talk on cooking ensues,
and recipes are exchanged. If a recipe is
not asked for, the unfortunate dish is never
again offered at the table. One of the young
ladies has already determined on gathering
together the nicest recipes, those that have
been tested, and publishing a cook book—a
cook book for girls, to be used for all practi-
cal purposes by the coming cooks. It will be
designed for those young house-keepers, too,
who are going to begin their domestic in
the old-fashioned way—of caring for their
houses themselves and making them really 
homes.—Boston Post.


CHEERFULNESS IS an excellent wearing
quality. It has been called the bright
weather of the heart. It gives harmony to
the soul and is a perpetual song without
words. It is tantamount to repose. It ena-
bles Nature to recruit its strength; whereas,
worry and discontent debilitates it, involv-
ing constant wear and tear.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electrically administered when cases requre.
	Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a half
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		je15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,
At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand. 

			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 		-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

