Vol. 2.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, April 15, 1874.		No. 22.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WHATEVER may be the result of the
Temperance Movement—the woman’s war
on whisky in different parts of the country—
the object for which it was inaugurated was
a good one, and still deserves commenda-
tion, even though its votaries may go to the
extreme in advocating it.
	A NEW York cancer doctor says that can-
cers are the result of our having been a pork
eating people; and he recommends an ab-
staining from the use of pork or lard in any
form. He also states that he never knew
of a Jew or an Indian having a cancer.
Would it not be worth while for other peo-
ple to try the experiment of adopting the
Jewish system in regard to swine?
	THE PRINCE Imperial, according to French
law, attained his majority on the l6th of
March. The day was an important one at
Chiselhurst, where the Prince and his
mother, ex-Empress Eugene reside. Im-
perialists from all parts of France attended
the festivities in celebration of the event,
numbering in all, it is estimated, over, 4,000.
The affair was considered of so much signifi-
cance that the French Government issued
orders to have those who attended,“spotted."
France should look well to her futue.
	HONORABLE CHARLES Sumner, United
States Senator from Massachusetts, died in
Washington on the 11th ult., at 2:47 p.m.
The day before, he was in his seat in the
Senate when Boutwell presented the resolu-
tions of the Massachusetts Legislature, an-
nulling its previous vote, censuring him—
Sumner. He dicd quietly, twenty-four
hours after his last appearance in the Senate
Chamber. Near the time of his expiration,
he several limes repeated to Judge Hoar, an
injunction not to let the Civil Rights bill
fail. He also seemed to regret his depar-
ture before his book was completed, saying,
“My book, my book is not finished but the
great account is closed!” His last words
were, “Tell Emerson that I love and revere
him."


VEILS.

	Alas for veils! From the tiny infant in
the nurses arms to the ancient widow in her
weeds, the whole sex is veiled. Veils an-
swer many purposes. They conceal defects;
they heighten beauty; they cover grief, and
so we see a whole race of women of every
age, style, and condition laying foundations
for diseases of the eye through an almost
needless fashion. These blinders are of
every conceivable style, from the white dot
on the child to the English crape on its grand-
mother. The best oculists give testimony
against this wholesale wearing of veils, and
we think they should make protest against
it, even at the risk of injury to their calling.
At least let the mothers of to-day look to it
that they will be held responsible, in anoth-
er generation, for suffering their little ones
to go veiled, as the matrons of a past gen-
eration were for allowing tight lacing and
all the evils which that distressing practice
entailed.


﻿EXAMPLES.

	[The EXPONENT is so essentially a family paper, a
home friend, tnat I feel it almost a duty as well as a
privilege to add my mite in my humble way. So here
is my first effort of the kind. The little anecdote has
one reccommendation at least—it is GENUINE.]
	We do not always realize the importance
of the examples we set before our children,
or the effects of the same upon their minds,
even before we think them capable of “tak-
ing notes.”
	Some time since, I became acquainted
with a family, consisting of father, mother
and three little ones. Having been brought
up in the Church, the parents had always
been accustomed to family prayer. At the
time I knew them they lived on the outside
of Utah, where, although in one of our
settlements, “Mormonism” is rather slack.
	Last summer, “Grandpa” came out from
an inside city to visit them. The son gave
way for his father to lead in prayer during
his stay of three months.
	When “Grandpa” returned home, prayer
was neglected in the little household the
first and second morning; breakfast passed
off without a word upon the subject. But,
the third morning, little Miss Bright Eyes
of five years old, could stand it no longer.
“Pa,” she said, “why don’t you pray as you
used to before Grandpa came? I do not
like to eat without praying, and if you can-
not pray I will try!” The father needed
not a second reminder.
	“Out of the mouths of babes and suck-
lings thou hast perfected praise.” 
							E.A.B.


For the EXPONENT.
	ENERGY AND FIRMNESS. 

	Energy and Firmness are traits of char-
acter that may almost be considered the
motive power of our existence. They con-
stitute the leading principle of success; with-
out them all good resolutions and beautiful
imaginary problems fall to the ground, un-
executed, and lost. Energy aids action, and
action is life, inaction is death. Energy is,
as it were, the germ that produces, or
brings forth its concomitant traits, such as
order and cleanliness; and without Firmness
where is execution? We may not question,
who has, or has not, these desirable traits of
character. Our eyes are given us to see
with; and people’s actions are as a looking
glass to their character; and if our neigh-
bors do not want us to read a chapter from
their book, the title page of which is
stamped with “fickleness and instability,”
let them measure strength with Energy and
Firmness, and spring forth to light and life, 
How natural it is for one to remark when
occasion is given, “How untidy that per-
son’s working department is!” or “How or-
derly, and cleanly, their entire surround-
ings are!” Every action depicts some one
or more traits of character. The langauge,
the voice, the gesture, the walk, &c.
	View the figure that forward propels
itself with lengthened strides, eager to get
over the measured ground—you can read
energy in the very foot-marks; such esti-
mate that time was not made to hang on
rusty hinges; they do not allow the mind to
wander on a thousand trivial things. One


having an object to accomplish, fixed and
firm in purpose, has no time to reconnoiter
through all space, and view with elaborate
exactness, and give a general detail of the
neighborhood gossip. The one who feasts
on gossip to-day, may have to fast to-mor-
row.
	Order and cleanliness are not the results of
noon-day rising from nightly slumbers.
Mortals may substitute, but it is not in their
power to render an equivalent for the bril-
liancy of the morning sun, its beauties and
freshness. Then why should we let slug-
gishness, and inactivity rob Energy and
Firmness of their power?
	The selfish one says, “I intend to take it
easy.” I would ask, at whose expense?
Surely, labor must be done; the helpless
must be provided for; even those who will
not work must eat, and somebody must
“foot the bill.”
	While Ease is dying, has not power to
draw his breath, Energy and Firmness can
dig his grave. But the drone is not needed
in the hive; and by-and-by, “The idler
shall not eat the bread of the laborer."
						I'LL TRY.


A NEW STYLE IN WOMAN’S DRESS.

	Long white trousers, for ladies are very
much worn on the Continent. These trou-
sers should be quite plain for wearing in
the day-time and in the street, but those
for evening wear should be made of fine
cambric or muslin, ornamented with em-
broidery, lace insertion or heavy rich lace
frills or flounces, according to the taste and
means of the lady herself. What could
look prettier or more modest than to see
a pretty, small trousered foot in silk stocking
and a neat sandled shoe appearing under
the skirt of a muslin dress, the ankles buried,
as it were, in several rows of the lace frills
or flounces of fine cambric or muslin trou-
sers? Surely, also, when a young lady of
eighteen or nineteen is dancing it is more
modest, as it is certainly very becoming, to
see the limbs hidden in lace-frilled trousers
of cambric than the present fashion. As I
said, this mode is very much seen on the
Continent among French, Spaniards, and
especially Russians. When at Barcelona a
few years ago I remarked that every lady
wore trousers, some plain, some richly
trimmed with lace frills or flounces, Two
or four inches of the trousers were visible,
setting off the small Spanish foot to perfec-
tion. I knew a very pretty French lady
who used to wear most becoming trousers
in the evening, which were made of fine
cambric or muslin, with rich lace frills up to
the calf of her leg and insertion between
each frill. The lace frills of her trousers
just touched the instep, but the rest of the
trousers was visible under and through the
transparent skirt of white muslin.—“Spring-
field Republican”


“Employment so certainly produces cheer-
fulness,” says Bishop Hall, “that I have
known a man come home in high spirits
from a funeral because he had the manage-
ment of it.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


REST.

Rest is not quitting
	This busy career:
Rest is the fitting
	Of self to one's sphere.

'Tis the brook's motion,
	Clear without strife:
Fleeing to ocean
	After its life.

'Tis loving and serving
	The highest and best;
'Tis onward, unswerving:
	And this is true rest.—GOETHE.


A WIFE.

	HUBERT. 		Now thou art mine!
My love, my beautiful, thou art mine own!
Henceforth the partner of my every joy,
Which sharing, thou wilt double.

	EDITH. 		Nay, my Hubert!
Thou art but envious. Am I not thy wife—
And shall I be content to share thy joys?—
In every sorrow, too, I'll have a part,
And sharing makes each less than half its weight.


﻿R. S. REPORTS.
			    ——
	From Provo, we have received cheer ing
reports of the Relief Societies of the 3rd
and 4th Wards, by Secretaries Mrs. Mary
John and Mrs. L. W. Kimball. Notwith-
standing the present hard times, these
Societies have through the blessings of God,
and their own industry and prudence, man-
aged to present ,all the while, a fair and
liberal showing of .their financial circum-
stances, and the good they are doing in
their philanthropic efforts to aid and sus-
tain those in their midst, who feel the
stings of poverty or are in any way aflict-
ed. They also exhibit strong desires to
move forward in the march of progress, and
improve in all the ways of purity and wis-
dom.
			———
	From St. Charles, Oneida Co., Idaho, Sec-
retary Mrs. Isabella W. Davis writes: Our
Society was organized August 30th 1868
with the following named sisters as officers.
Annie Laker, President,
Christina Williamsen }Counselors
Mary Jacobs
I. W. Davis, Secretary,
Elizabeth Pugmire, Treasurer.
	Besides these officers, we have at present
a Teachers quorum consisting of seventeen
members, and an appraising committee of
three. We have had no trials or serious
difficulty in our Society. We have lost three
Teachers by death, likewise our eldest mem-
ber Sister Lydia Jennings. The sisters are
improving in speaking and acquiring more
confidence in themselves.
			———
	In a brief report of the Relief Society of
Willard City, Box Elder Co., Mary Hub-
bard gives an account of the death of Mrs.
Phebe Harding, who was appointed Treas-
urer of the Society at its first organization,
which office she faithfully sustained until 
her departure by death, on the 19th ult.
She was sixty-four years of ago, had lived
a life of honor and respectability, and her
loss is deeply felt by her remaining friends.


MRS. Mary Ollenhausen, of Lexington,
the widow of a German baron, but an Ameri-
can by birth, has been engaged as Superin-
tendent of the new Training School for
Nurses at the Massachusetts General Hos-
pital. She has served as nurse both in the
Union and German armies.


[Column 1]﻿
TO THE YOUNG SISTERS IN PROVO.

	This address is prompted by a feeling of
deep interest in your welfare. Realizing
more than you possibly can at present, the
great future which is before each one of you,
I have an intense anxiety that you should,
in youth, pursue that course which will re-
sult in the greatest good to yourselves as in-
dividuals, and to all with whom you may be
associated.
	Youth is the springtime of life, and very
early those seeds are sown, either for good
or for evil, which will not only yield corres-
ponding harvests in the autumn of this
present existence, but also in the life to
come. How important then, are the fleeting
moments of childhood and youth, and how
necessary that they should be wisely em-
ployed, and with a reference to future re-
sults! Your positions in society depend
much, very much upon your own efforts and
determinations while young—either to be 
despised by the good, or to be honored and
respected by them.
	You each possess the germs of every fac-
ulty that constitutes noble, dignified and
exalted womanhood; and their develop-
ment, much, if not altogether, depends upon
your own exertions. No young ladies else-
where on earth, have so many advantages 
and good opportunities for becoming emi-
nently useful, as those of Utah; and I hum-
bly and earnestly entreat you to avail your-
selves of every privilege afforded you, that
will aid in accomplishing this great and
grand purpose. You can choose, and mark
your own destinies—either to become hon-
orable women, and co-workers in the king-
dom of God, with those whose names will be
venerated from generation to generation, or
to become tools for the adversary—go down
to your graves with dishonor, and let your
memories perish.
	In these last days, the adversary has great
power, and will entice from the path of im-
provement, all those who do not, with fixed
and noble purpose, set their faces as flint
against the pride and follies of the world.
This you cannot do, without the Spirit of God
in your hearts; to cultivate which, you are
called upon to enter into a mutual, social or-
ganization—one devised by the wisdom of
God, and which if properly entered into,
and wisely conducted, will prove of great
worth to those who wish (as every young
lady in Zion should do) to become wise and
loving wives and mothers, and active and
efficient members of society—prepared to
officiate in all womanly departments.
	Such is the object of all the Retrenchment
Associations that have been organized in
Salt Lake City; but their aims and workings
are as little understood, and as unapprecia-
ted by many who profess to be saints, as the
fulness of the gospel and its benefits are by
the people of the world abroad. Many seem
to think that these organizations and assem-
blies are only aiming to establish a plain
style of dress; but, whatever the ignorance
of some may prompt them to think, does
not change the facts as we know them—that
much good has already resulted from this
co-operation, in which many earnest women
are working in union for mutual improve-
ment for the benefit of Zion, not only re-
trenching table extravagance, and what is
ludicrous and disgusting in the fashion of
dress, but, also retrenching ignorance, the
spirit of the world, and everything else that
is opposed to noble womanhood, and pro-
gress in the path to perfection. We are
uniting our faith and works, as fellow-help-
ers with our brethren, in the great work
of salvation, and while many of our young

[Column 2]
sisters, by co-operating in their exertions in
an associated capacity, are making great im-
provement, we want the young ladies of
Provo to step forward—avail themselves of
the opportunity, and not be a whit behind
this noble class of sisters who are struggling
for physical, moral, intellectual and spiritual
progression.
	You need not fear being obliged to dress
plainer than you wish—by associating in ac-
cordance with the design of this organiza-
tion, you will get the Spirit of God, which
is the spirit of intelligence that leads into
all truth, and as you learn to cherish it,
you will understand the mind and will of
God—it will instruct you in the true princi-
ples of beauty and loveliness, and, in fulfill-
ment of the words of an ancient prophet,
you, as daughters of Zion, will become as
“polished stones,” and far more beautiful
than the devotees of worldly fashion. We
do not wish you to discard all ornament, but
we want you to possess that independence
of character that will prompt you to culti-
vate correct tastes, and each one wear what
is most becoming to her own person, and not
feel compelled to wear precisely what others
do, which many times is done at the sacri-
fice of better judgment. It is to be hoped
that none of you are so destitute of good
solid sense, as to waste that time on dress,
which should be spent in enriching and or-
namenting your hearts and minds, and en-
dowing them with all that is truly useful,
ornamental and imperishable.
	We want you to retrench in every thing
that is uncomely—whatever approaches to-
wards vulgarity in speech and manners;
and, at home and abroad, study refinement
and correct habits, for by so doing, you will
at all times be prepared to associate with
ease and self-possession, with the most re-
fined and intelligent. By meeting together
in an organized capacity, you can assist each
other in all that tends to purify, elevate and
qualify you to become useful and influential,
instead of worthless members of society—
to beautify and happify home—to be happy
yourselves, and make all happy around you,
and to honorably discharge the high duties
and responsibilities, which, as Latter-day
Saints, await you. I hope you possess en-
ergy of character sufficient to determine to
BE SOMEBODY and to DO SOMETHING—ascer.
tain the object of your birth in this momen-
tous dispensation, and prepare to accomplish
it. Never flinch from a wise purpose, neith-
er fear the insinuations and taunts which
you probably will meet from those who con-
descend to be nothing but butterflies that
gaily shine and flutter for a short period, and
then disappear forever. I trust, young la-
dies, you will so honor your organization,
that the brethren in Provo will be stimula-
ted to organize the young men and boys.
You may lead out in the right direction, but
they should not stay long in the rear.
	I am happy in recommending Mrs. M. T.
Smoot as the Superintendent of your Socie-
ty. She is truly a woman of God—has had
much experience, and her counsels and in-
structions will be in wisdom, and she will
do honor to her position as a mother to your
Association.
	May the Spirit and wisdom of the Most
High direct you in all time to come, that
you may honor Him and your own beings.
	With much love,
					ELIZA R. SNOW.


﻿A MAN in earnest finds means, or, if he
cannot find, creates them. He who deliber-
ately adopts a  great end has, by this act,
half accomplished it—has sealed the chief
barrier to success.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the EXPONENT
	GOVERNMENT, PEOPLE AND
			PRIVILEGES. 

			(CONCLUDED)
	No! even though it is an admitted fact
that a father can scarcely even understand
the height, the depth, the beauty and the
strength, the utter devotion of a mother’s
love, yet, the law, as a simple deduction
from the fact of his ownership of the
mother, gives the child to the father alone.
So, in case of separation, the father, unless
he can be proved a lunatic, a dangerous
drunkard or a felon, has the authority of
law to tear his child from its mother’s arms.
Indeed, though the two parents may have
lived as harmoniously as two doves in a nest,
the father, dying, may execute a will even
without his wife’s knowledge, giving his
child, even if unborn, to the care of a stran-
ger,and the mother has no redress. But let it
be remembered that her death and forty
wills could never disturb HIM in possession
of his child.
	This, friends, is the land of boasted equal
rights! This is the SOVEREIGNTY which
woman inherits. This is the “protection”
which the STRONG extend over the WEAK.
Allow me to say, without intending disre-
spect to any, that it reminds me of the
wolf's protection of the lamb, when he ate
it and thus placed it inside of himself out
of all danger.
	The husband absorbs the wife’s name,
person, property &c.,and then boasts of be-
ing woman’s protector. I admit that many
of them do so innocently, not knowing how
laws really stand, but it is time that they
were informed on the subject that they may
choose their course with their eyes open.
	Is not this a sorry showing for the most
liberal and enlightened government on the
earth? the nation foremost and unrivaled in
the scale of civilization?
	And there is yet another point in this
case worthy of attention.
	Could a woman consent so far to sacrifice
her conscience and her sense of honor, she
might enter into private contract with any
man, and so long as she did not bear his
name nor claim marriage, she might live with
him, rear children, possess her own prop-
erty, buy and sell, give legal deeds, make
a legal will, and more than all, possess her
own children.
	Now what has the wife to compensate her
for the loss of all these? A name; the ap-
proval of the public; things quite necessary
to happiness certainly; but are they not
dearly bought at the expense of all else
worth living for, including things more
precious than they?
	I would not for a moment be understood
to advocate any laxity in morals, for con-
science must be kept pure even if it be at
the expense of ALL else dear and precious;
but I would recommend it to the consider-
ation of those who could amend these things,
that since they make marriage a civil con-
tract, and since one civil contract is as good
as another if only as well adhered to, it
might be well to make the recognized and
honorable one a little less bitter in its
exactions.
	I do not wonder that men who are sat-
isfied with such laws should be shocked at
seeing a woman peep into a law-book or
evince any interest in political affairs. They
have good cause to dread that she might
learn the depth and extent of the degrada-
tion in which the law dooms her to live. I
remember the slave owners of the South
thought it necessry to the security of their
property that their slaves be kept in ignor-
[Column 2]
ance; and a remnant of their logic is warmed
over for use in woman’s case.
	“Keep woman to her needlework her
housework, her frills and her flounces, and if
possible, satisfy her with them, and we may
still blame her for extravagance and sneer
at her for incapacity, and she will endure it
all; but once educate her as highly as our-
selves and remove her legal disabilities, she
would become as self-conceited an dobstinate
as to think herself fully equal to us; and she
might even decline to marry on our terms.”
	Very likely, dear brothers, and all the
harm I wish you is that every maid in the
land were at this very hour in possession of
a first-class education, and were particularly
well posted on all points relating to the mat-
rimonial question. The former would place
within her reach some higher pursuit than
mere fashion-worship, and if the latter
brought every soul of them to the resolu-
tion never to marry until these laws were
so much remodeled as to make marriage
quite as advantageous to them as to you, so
much the better for you and for posterity
as well as for them.
	Some fear that giving man’s latitude to
woman would make her fractious, overbear-
ing and unwilling to be advised; but I differ.
I believe ninety-nine women out of a
hundred would consult their husbands
and accept advice in all just and reas-
onable things, for the sake of love
and respect, were such Inducements of-
fered them. And all experience teaches
that blind and forced obedience is a dry
skeleton compared with the strength and
beauty of obedience or rather agreement of
opinion and efforts obtained with the full
consent of conscience, judgment and affec-
tion.
	Set women on a true equality with your-
selves, and I venture to assert that the
frivolity and instability of which you com-
plain will speedily give place to thrift and
sagacity, foresight and sound judgment, in
addition to a happy contentment with her
lot in place of the burning sense of wrong
which an intelligent, well informed woman
must feel when seeing the honest and faith-
ful wife shorn of all those dear and proper
privileges for which the wife in all but name
cannot be deprived.
	Look at a large class of women in Utah
to-day. Your laws do not recognize them
as wives, and many have sadly mourned the
loss of their former friends’ respect. In
some cases it took all the strength of their
faith in their holy religion and their trust
in God to give them courage to endure the
scorn of the world, even though they knew
the tie that bound them in the sacred rela-
tion of wife, to be strong enough to endure
beyond the bounds of earth and time;though
they know the law which sanctioned their
nuptials to be authorized by God Himself
and as far above human law as the heavens
are above the earth.
	But your laws choose to disapprove that
heavenly law, and therefore these women
enjoy rights for which your own wives,
whom you admit to be pure and upright,
scarcely dare to hope. Even if you repeal
the rights of suffrage, they in Utah can
still buy and sell, hold and convey titles
and transact business of any kind; their
persons are their own and neither father nor
law can deprive them of their children.
	Since they honestly believe they are do-
ing right, since their consciences are pure
before the God they worship, and they have
within no gnawing conviction of guilt to
sap life at its fountain, what cause have they
to regret the loss of a name which is to them
but a name, while they hold in lieu of it
such extensive and proud privileges?
[Column 3]
	What sublime faith must law-makers
have in woman’s docility and meekness
when they expect her to live within the
bounds of laws by them manufactured, and
the code of morals by them laid down for
her, (and which differs so utterly from the
code they follow,) while they demand of her
all but life itself and the privilege of LOVING
and SERVING THEM, as the price of so doing!
	For shame! how can they ask a woman to
share their life on such terms? how dare
they advocate such accumulated injustice as
is all but sufficient to drive their daughters
to abjure marriage alltogether? I wonder
the fathers of this nation, in view of the
tremendous publicity and majority they
themselves are giving to the so-called Mor-
mons—I say I wonder they do not hasten to
give woman more of her natural rights even
if but through fear that their daughters
may be driven in very desperation to inves-
tigate the Mormon faith. And if once they
do that with pure motives, they will be al-
most certain to embrace it for itself; besides
choosing to become “seconds” for the sake of
enjoying at the same time the approval of
conscience and the unequaled joys of mother-
hood, without being robbed by law of per-
son, property, time and offspring.
	No doubt this would be to law-makers a
new, undreamed of and startling possibility;
but I would it could be squarely presented
to every influential citizen outside of Utah;
and that all might not be only startled by it,
but so thoroughly alarmed as to feel com-
pelled, if but for their own sakes, to give—
no! not GIVE but YIELD to woman what is
so justly her own—the right to stand as
man’s acknowledged equal. 		L. L. D.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THERE are about 6,000 Mormons living in
the southern part of Idaho Territory.

	Every white man in the Indian Territory,
who marries a squaw, is given 100 acres of
land.

	THE Texas cattle crop of the present year
is estimated to have brought $8,000,000 into
the State.

	IT is said that Edward I planted the cot-
ton-shrub on the banks of the Thames about
the year 1296.

	THE numberof hares and rabbits produced
annually in Great Britain, is said to be 30,
000,000, supplying 40,000 tons of food.

	THERE are over sixty thousand Protestant
churches in the United States, and about
three thousand Roman Catholic churches.

	A CHEESE weighing 2,200 pounds,made to
order in Oneida Co. N. Y , was shipped to
London a short time ago 27,000 pounds of
milk were consumed in making it.

	BIG brains seem to produce a great varie-
ty of results. Fisk’s brain weighed fifty-
eight ounces. Daniel Webster’s weighed
but fifty-three ounces and a half. Cavier had
sixty-four ounces and a half, while Prof.
Abercrombie possessed sixty-three. Ruloff,
the murderer, who was executed at Bing-
hamton had fifty-nine ounces of brain.

	LAST year 4,000,000 acres were taken up
by homestead entries. There is yet 1,200,
000,000 acres of public land unsurveyed,
but this includes mountains, alkaline plains,
sand and sage deserts, swamp and shoal
lands, railroad grants, etc. After deducting
these, it is estimated that it will take 90
years to exhaust the good government land
in the United States.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GEEENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne. Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah
	SALT LAKE CITY, April 13. 1874.


﻿SPLINTERS.

	Stockton, Cal., is to have a street railroad
......It is said the lawyers on the Boston
School Committee voted to admit the lady
members to seats, while the clerical mem-
bers voted against them......A boiler explo-
sion at Blackburn, England, lately killed
twenty persons and severely wounded many
others......The steamer “Grace Darling,”
went ashore off the Scotch coast during the
recent gales, and fifteen of her crew were
drowned; also four men belonging to the
life-saving station, lost their lives in the at-
tempt to rescue the crew......The Legisla-
ture of Ohio has passed the bill allowing
women the right of suffrage 48 to 30. The
people will have to vote upon the question
at the next election, when, if a majority
vote in its favor it will become a law,......
The Free Medical College for women, con-
ferred the degree of M. D. upon fourteen
lady graduates, eight from New York, one
each from New Jersey, Maine, Massachu-
setts, Rhode Island, Wisconsin and Mis-
souri.


﻿SENATOR SUMNER.

	SALT LAKE CITY, March 26th 1874.
SISTER L. G. RICHARDS.
	I have now before me a picture of the
late Hon, Charles Sumner. He has been
eulogized by the American Nation, also by
the dwellers in the old world for his native
goodness, integrity, and fearless firmness in
defending every move, or measure against
injustice and wrong.
	I feel a desire to say a few words to the
readers of the EXPONENT, concerning this
great, and good, man. After the Cullom Bill,
in its modified form had passed the House
of Representatives, every effort was put
forth by the "ring,” to have the Cragin Bill,
passed in the Senate.
	I was residing in Washington at the time.
I had never met or been introduced to Mr.
Sumner; but determined to call on him and
get him enlisted on our side if possible.
On arriving at his residence, his man-ser-
vant said I could not see Mr. Sumner, that
he had positive orders to admit no one that
day, I told him, my business would admit
of no delay: he said he was sorry, but he
dared not take my card to Mr. Sumner. I
replied, ‘Then I will go in unannounced, if
you will show me the way.' He hesitated,
then said “If you dare go, I will show you.”
After being shown, I just stepped inside his
Office door. Mr. Sumner arose from his
desk with a paper in his hand, and looked—
not at all pleasant—at the intruder. I bowed
—gave my name, and told him that my busi-
ness was imperitive and I hoped he would
pardon the intrusion. His answer was
quick and sharp, “Madam I can give you
thirty seconds.” said I, ‘Thank you Sir, I
can do with fifteen’—He placed me a chair
and took out his watch; I laid my business
before him, and rose to take my leave, he
looked at me, and said, “Thank you, you
have accomplished it in fifteen seconds—
now, be seated; what are these people, the
Mormons, to you?” I told him they were
my people. “How long have you been a
Mormon?” I told him nearly twenty years.
He said, “Then you ought to know them.
I promise not only to defend them now, but
will defend them in all future time.” He
assured me that the bill would not leave the
Committee Room, that he would oppose it
to the best of his ability.
	He held his hand to me, and said, “Do
not fear for your people, that bill, will never
trouble them.” He thanked me for having


faith in him, also for persevering to see him;
and after detaining me fifteen minutes over
the fifteen seconds, he arose from his chair
and escorted me to the door.
	In conclusion, let me say, whilst the out-
side world lauds his fame, it would seem to
me to be ungrateful, to the illustrious dead,
to let his kindness to us, and our cause, be
buried in oblivion.
				ELIZABETH DAVIS.
					Fourteenth Ward.


[Column 1]
		THE NEW TEMPLE.

	The following interesting items have appeared
in the daily papers, and may not be new to
many of our readers. But feeling desirous of
preserving the account as an important link in
the history of the church, we give place to it
in our journal.
	On the 31st of March, at 12 o'clock midday, a
deposit of records, plate containing sketch of
the organization of the church, etc., was made
in the wall of the Temple at St. George. Presi-
dent B. Young deposited the box containing
the records in the place prepared at the south-
east corner of the building, and offered the
dedicatory prayer.
	There were present on the occasion, besides
President B. Young, Presidents George A.
Smith, Erastus Snow, Joseph A. Young, and
John W. Young; Elders Robert Gardener, A.
F. McDonald, Jacob Hamblin, James G. Bleak,
Henry Eyring, A. M. Cannon, Miles Romney,
assistant architect, and Edward L. Parry, chief
of the masons, and others.
	The following is the inscription engraved up-
on the silver plate and placed in the box depos-
ited, as above stated, in the foundation of the
Temple:—
		“HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
	“The Church of Jesus Christ, of Latter Day
Saints, was organized and established agreeably
to the laws of our country, by the will and
commandments of God, on the sixth of April,
1830. Which commandments were given to
Joseph Smith, Jr., who was called of God, and
ordained an Apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the
first Elder in the Church.
	“Joseph Smith, Jr., President, with his bro-
ther Hyrum, Patriarch of the whole Church,
suffered martyrdom in Carthage,  Illinois, June
27th, 1844, and the Church was driven into the
wilderness in 1846.
	“Brigham Young, President of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.
		  "HIS COUNSELORS.
     "George A. Smith and Daniel H. Wells.
	   "ASSISTANT COUNSELLORS.
     "Lorenzo Snow, Brigham Young, Jr., Albert
Carrington, John W. Young and George Q.
Cannon.
		   "TWELVE APOSTLES.
	"Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt, John Taylor,
Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Charles C.

[Column 2]
Rich, Erastus Snow, Franklin D. Richards,
George Q. Cannon, Brigham Young, Jr., Joseph
.F Smith and Albert Carrington.
		"PRESIDING PATRIARCH.
	"John Smith, the eldest son of the martyred
Hyrum Smith.
"FIRST SEVEN PRESIDENTS OF THE SEVENTIES.
	"Joseph Young, Levi W. Hancock, Henry
Herriman, Albert P. Rockwood, Horace S. El-
dredge, Jacob Gates and John Van Cott.
	"These seven constitute the Presiding Coun-
cil over all the Seventies. Each quorum of
Seventies has seven presidents to preside over
the quorum.
	       	       "PRESIDING BISHOP.
	"Edward Hunter, President of the Aaronic
Priesthood.
	         	"HIS COUNSELLORS.
	"Leonard W. Hardy and Jesse C. Little.
	"St. George Temple Block was dedicated,
November 9th 1871.
			"Engd. by David McKenkie."
	The following is the list of books, papers, etc.,
placed with the plate in the box, namely:—Bi-
ble, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants,
Hymn Book, Compendium, Catechism, Spen-
cer's Letters, Voice of Warning, E. R. Snow's
Poems, Orson Hyde's Tour to Jerusalem, Three
Sermons on Polygamy, Answers to Questions,
Two Volumes of Millennial Star, I and XIV,
One Volume Journal of Discourses, One copy
"Mormon" Question, One copy Plural Mar-
riage, one Volume Juvenile Instructor, One
copy Laws of Utah, A file of the Woman's
Exponent, A few numbers of Deseret News,
containing organization of the Church, One
copy of Acts of First Legislature, A few num-
bers of Ogden Junction, A few numbers of Salt
Lake Herald, One number of the Utah Posten,
Synopsis of Description of the Temple at Salt
Lake City, by Truman O. Angell, Church
Architect, Abstract of the History of Southern
Utah, by James G. Bleak, historian of the
Southern mission.


CONFERENCE.

	On the 6th inst. the fourty-fourth annual Con-
ference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints was held in this city: President
D. H. Wells, Apostles Orson Pratt, John Taylor,
Wilford Woodruff, and Albert Carrington, and
a large number of presiding Elders were present
on the stand. After the opening exercises El-
der O. Pratt delivered an able and instructive
discourse on the progress and nature of the
Kingdom of God that has been established in
these latter times. Also the necessity of con-
tinuous revelation from God to enable a people
to build up His kingdom, and do his will. Fol-
lowing Elder Pratt’s discourse, Pres. Wells
moved that the Conference adjourn till 10 a.
m. Thursday, May 7th, in the New Tabernacle,
which motion was carried unanimously.  After
an anthem by the choir, Elder Woodruff pro-
nounced the benediction.


﻿LITERARY NOTICES.

	"The Homestead," a literary journal for
women, is edited and published by Dora Dar-
moore, at Oakland, Cal. We have received No.
2 of Vol. 1, and judging from that, we should
say the journal will be lively and well edited. 
	Laura De Force Gordon's paper, the "Stock-
ton Leader," we are pleased to learn, is to be
issued daily, on and after the 1st of May, the
editor having increased her facilities, and
moved into new quarters. This little sheet is


one which bears acquaintance well, becoming
better as it grows older.
	The "Ogden Junction" is one of the best edi-
ted papers in the Rocky Mountains, always
spicy. On the 4th inst., the "Junction" moved
into the new establishment built expressly for
its accommodation, situated on Fifth St., Ogden.
	"The Crusaders," a small sheet published in
New York, appears in behalf of the crusade
against liquor. It is strongly opposed to intoxi-
cating drinks and tobacco, and—in the last
number received—advocates the use of the
“Turkish Bath.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BE READY

	Never, perhaps, has there been recorded in
the annals of history, a period when sudden
death, without violence, visited so  frequently,
unexpectedly the inhabitants of this earth,
as in this, our day. The young, the middle-
aged and the aged are alike stricken down, often
with scarce a moment's warning; the learned
and the ignorant, the great and popular among
men and those whose lives are obscure and un-
known, are all alike liable to share the same
fate.
	Should not a moments contemplation of these
facts as they are daily spread forth in bold re-
lief, be a sufficient admonition to every one,
that the present action may be the last on earth?
And with this view, should not the humblest
who have a desire to accomplish some good in
this life, "be doing" to-day, instead of dream-
ing away the present hours in deliberation of
what they intend to set about to-morrow, or at
some future time? And should not those things
which are likely to be of most importance in
the great future, be first considered, rather than
put aside for things of less moment?
	"If I could live but five years longer—if I
could even live for one year more, I could ac-
complish much that I must now leave undone,"
said a good man recently, upon his death bed.
He wanted to call his family together and bless
them, and there were other things he regretted
leaving unfinished. But it was too late.
	Just now word comes to us that Mr. Robert
L. Campbell of this city, well known as the
Superintendent of common Schools for the Ter-
ritory, and holding other public offices, passed
away from the busy scenes of this life, at four
o'clock this morning, April 11th.
	While we feel to condole with his family in
this, their hour of sad bereavement, we wish
also to state that the EXPONENT looses in Bro-
ther Campbell, a personal and valued friend.
Since its first appearance upon the broad stage
of action, he has ever been one to give encour-
agement, and evince a kindly interest in its be-
half.
	To the young daughters of the diseased, who
have lately accepted positions of public trust,
we wish to offer a few words of sisterly sympa-
thy. We would say to them, be not disheart-
ened although deprived of so able and worthy
a friend, a father so judicious and faithful. He
has left you great legacies in the education he
has given you, and the bright example of his
well spent life. Seek diligently to honor your
inheritances.
	Returning again to the subject upon which
this article was designed to be written, we will
briefly add.—Let those who feel secure to-day
leaning upon supports, be also prepared for
what may come in an hour of which they think
not— for they are, each one, liable at any mo-
ment to be left standing alone. And those who
have a work to do, be admonished not to defer
it till a more convenient season, least they be
also "too late."


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
  MRS. ABBA C. Haven, of Morgan Co., Utah,
is agent for the EXPONENT in that vicinity; and
Mrs. Julia A. Hales of Spanish Fork, for that
settlement.
  AGENTS FOR the EXPONENT, and all others
interested in its welfare and advancement, will
please bear in mind that two numbers after the
present will complete the 2nd volume; and that
volume 3 should commence with many addi
tions to the subscription list, and brighter pros-
pects than have ever yet opened before it.
   MRS. ISABELLA W. Davis, writing from St.
Charles, Bear Lake Valley, informs us that the
past winter has been the most pleasant in that
portion of country that the inhabitants have
ever known. They have had but little snow
and very little hard winds. Sabbath Schools,
Sunday,and Thursday evening meetings are all
well attended. Sister Davis also notices the
death, on the 24th ult., of Frederick Oleson of
that place, who drove a nail into his brain and
cut his throat, after which he lingered about 13
hours. The cause of the suicide is said to have
been disappointment in love affairs.
   ON THE 6th inst. the snow lay about 18 inches
deep around some of the settlements in Cache
Valley. Some of the first settlers say, the past
winter has been the most severe ever experienced
in that valley.
   BEAR LAKERS send the consoling word to
the dwellers in Cache, that if the Rail Road
only extended through their country, they
would send over some hay for the poor cattle
which are starving in Cache. They are more
accustomed to long, hard winters in Bear Lake
Valley, and were better prepared for it this time,
though it did not visit them.
   THE CITIZENS of Ogden are raising means to
lay a planked sidewalk from the Depot to the
central part of the town.
   THE RELIEF Society at Ephraim, Sanpete
Co., lately purchased a handsome Sacramental
Service for that place. It was obtained through
Bro. C. C. Asmussen, and cost $114.
   THE FIRST company of Saints for this season,
are to leave Liverpool, England, on the 6th of
May.
   THE UTAH Northern R. R. has lately receiv-
ed five new narrow guage cars; one mail and
baggage, and four flat cars. About two hundred
men, under the direction of Superintendent
Moses Thatcher, are engaged on the road, and
are doing good work. Mr. Thatcher calculates
that early in May, the track will be completed
and the trains running from Ogden to Franklin.
   A SUNDAY School Union for Weber County
was organized at a meeting held in the second
ward school house, Ogden, on the 4th of this
month. Following are the names of the offi-
cers elected:
   R. Ballantyne, President.
   David M. Stuart and Thomas Wallace, Vice-
Presidents.
   R. A. Ballantyne, Secretary and Treasurer;
   L. F. Monch, Correspondlug Secretary.
   A number of resolutions were unanimously
accepted, out of which we select the following:
   Resolved.—That the officers of this Union
are hereby constituted a Board of Directors to
transact business pertaining to the interests of
Sunday Schools in the county.
   Resolved.—That the Corresponding Secretary
shall communicate with the Territorial Sunday
School Union in relation to a history of the
Church suitable for Sunday School libraries,
also concerning a primary Catechism and other
matters.
   Resolved.—That we hold a musical festival
for all our Sunday Schools in the county, be-
tween the 15th of May and the 15th of June
next.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	No other living thing can go so slow as a
boy—on an errand.
	A barren rock—When the cradled baby
refuses to go to sleep.
	A little girl in Des Moines wants to know
why there are no “he dolls.” Sure enough
why not?
	An interesting little boy, timid when left
alone in a dark room, was overheard recently
by his mother to say in his loneliness, “Oh,
Lord, don’t let any body hurt me, and I’ll
go to church next Sunday, and give you
some money.”
	A teacher,questioning little boys about the
graduation in the scale of being, asked,
“What comes next to man?” A little shaver,
who was evidently smarting under a pre-
vious defeat, immediately distanced all
competitors by promptly shouting, “His
undershirt, ma’am.”
	A lady teacher inquired of the members
of a class of juveniles if any of them could
name the four seasons. Instantly the chubby
hand of a five-year-old was raised, and
promptly came the answer, “Pepper, salt,
vinegar, and mustard.”
	A Church deacon laid his hand upon the
shoulder of a little urchin who was playing
in the church porch, and thus addressed
him: “My son I believe the devil has hold
of you.” “I believe he has, too!” was the
urchin’s significant reply.
	“Papa will soon be- here,” said mama to
her three-year-old; “what can Georgy do to
welcome him?” And the mother glanced
at the child’s playthings, which lay scattered
in wild confusion on the carpet.
	“Make the room neat,” replied the little
one, understanding the look, and immedi-
ately beginning to gather his toys into a
basket.
	“What more can we do to welcome papa?”
asked mama, when nothing was wanting to
the neatness of the room.
	“Be happy to him when he comes,” cried
the dear little fellow, jumping up and down
with eagerness, as he watched at the win-
dow for his father's coming.
	Now, as all the dictionaries will testify,
it is very hard to give good definitions, but
did not Georgy give the very substance of a
welcome? “Be happy to him when he
comes.”
	Senator Sprague’s Boy.—one day lately
at the breakfast table Senator Sprague said
to his son, “You must understand, my boy,
that you are the son of a poor man, and will
have your own way to make in the world.
I have fifty cents in my pocket, not a cent
more; so after breakfast I think I’ll take you
out and get a boot-blacking apparatus for
you. You must learn to black your own
boots, like a poor man's son, you know.
The little fellow listened intently, then
said: "Well, papa, can't I black your boots
and save you something?” “Oh, certainly,
if you wish?” his father answered. After
breakfast the investment was made. The
next day the enterprising youngster arose
at daylight, and before anybody was up and
could interfere, had blacked every boot and
shoe in the Sprague mansion, including a
pair of his mother’s, which had been bought
recently for nineteen dollars, and which, of
course, were utterly ruined.—“Washington
Letter.”


BOOKS to mankind are as the flowers to
the bee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the EXPONENT.]
				APRIL.

Yes, April again with her sweet winsome face,
Comes forth, through the valleys grim Winter to chase;
Her light, fariy foot-steps with gladness we trace,
	As she revels the hill tops among;
She smiles on the brooklet, and lovingly dares
To laugh at the white cap the mountain peak wears,
And tune to her own sportive notions the airs
	Which the brisk, chilly, March winds have sung.

O! fair, sunny April, why hast thou not power
To wake the loved ones, who in winter's dread hour,
Have fallen asleep, like the leaflet and flower
	Thou sweeetly revivest again?
Me thinkest, in sympathy's kind, gentle tone,
Thou answereth “Such is HIS power alone,
Who lendeth of light, life and beauty, His own,
	To me and to children of men.

Thou wilt shortly remember, O frail child of earth!
I have no commission for life, death or birth:—
My power indeed! Ah! how meagre its worth,
	But for the Great Ruler on high:
Soon May with her charms and her graces will stand
Where I now appear to be Queen of the land—
And would ye regret the Wise Ruler's command?
	Like mortals, fair April must die,”
										LULA.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Observing Birthdays.—Why is not the happy
custom of observing birthdays more common?. Love
is rich in devices, and a full purse is not needed
on such occasions. Johnny will wear his new boots
the more proudly if he puts them on first the day
he is five years old. What sweeter music than Su-
san’s surprised laugh when she finds the breakfast-
room decorated with wreaths on her birthday morn-
ing? To me water-lilies will never cease to be
something more than lovely flowers; for once, upon
my birthday, years ago, I found them in my room,
the gift of a dear brother, who had obtained my fa-
vorites after a long walk and a hard row on the
pond. Ah! the fragrance of those lilies will never
perish. Will you miss regretfully the rich trimming
from your next new dress, if you deny yourself its
cost to buy a microscope, which will prove a source
of entertainment and instruction to the whole house-
hold? To keep out bad thoughts and. crush evil
tendencies, give food for good thoughts and happy
memories, and foster their growth.
	To Take Ink Stains out of Cloth—Tie a little
Cream of Tartar up in the cloth where the spot is.
Then pour on boiling water. Then untie it and put
it in the wash. It will come out clear.
	A medical writer in an English Journal says that
rheumatism and gout can be cured by the free use
of asparagus, the active principle of the plant hav-
ing the effect of neutralizing the lithic acid in the
system, which is the cause of all inflammatory
rheumatic ailments.
	To Prevent Clothes From Catching Fire.—Add
one ounce of alum to the last water used to rinse
children’s dresses, and they will be rendered so
nearly incombustible that they will not flame. Bed
curtains or other articles may be treated in the same
way. This simple precaution may save serious ac-
cidents.
	Airing Night Clothes.—It seems to me that the
only proper receptacle for a night garment of any
kind, after being worn, is a hook or nail where the
sun can shine upon it and the breezes can blow over
and under and through and through it, carrying
away whatever matter may have been absorbed
from the body during the night; that the old way of
rolling up a night-dress so tightly that it might be
used as a formidable weapon of offense or defense,
and tucking it under the pillow, or of folding it up
and putting it away in the dark, out of sight, is un-
clean and unhealthful, and should have long ago be-
come obsolete.—G. G. in the R. N. Yorker.
	Hints on House Cleaning,— All carpets do not
need to be taken up those which do not, can be
loosened at the edges, the dust brush pushed under
a piece, and a clean sweep of all the dust can be

[Column 2]
made. Wash the floor thus swept with strong
soapsuds, and spirits of turpentine after. Then
tack the carpet down. The odor is soon gone, if
you open your windows, and you can feel safe for
the summer, at least. Upholstered furniture can be
treated to the same bath, if applied with a soft,
clean cloth, and the colors will receive no injury.
But before using it, brush the cushions with a stiff
hand brush and a damp cloth, so as to take away
all the dust.
	Economical use of Nutmegs.—If a person begins
to grate a nutmeg at the stalk end, it will prove
hollow throughout; whereas the same nutmeg gra-
ted at the other end, would have proved sound and
solid to the last. This circumstance may thus be
accounted for: The center of a nutmeg consists of
a number of fibers issuing from the stalks and its
continuation through the center of the fruit, the
other ends of which fibers, though closely surround-
ed and pressed by the fruit, do not adhere to it.
When the stalk is grated away, these fibers, having
lost their hold, gradually drop out in succession, and
the hollow continues through the whole nut. By
beginning at the contrary end, the fibers above men-
tioned are grated off at their core end, with the sur-
rounding fruit, and do not drop out.
	Open Your Windows.—A house that is never
aired has every nook and corner filled with stale
odors of cooked meats, boiled vegetables, especially
cabbage and onions, which, as the weeks go by,
literally reek in their hiding-places. Who has not
wished sometimes to hang a new servant’s clothing
out of doors some frosty night until it should be
thoroughly aired? But I have seen the fine ladies
come sweeping into church with their velvets and
silks, when said velvets and silks gave unmistakable
evidence of having been housed in just such shut-
up chambers. There is death in such unaired
chambers. Better a swarm of flics or a cloud of
dust; better frost and snow in a room, than these
intolerable smells. Dear girls, the first thing in the
morning, when you arc ready to go down ‘ stairs,
throw open your windows, take apart the clothing
of your beds, and let the air blow through it as
hard as it will. There is health in such a policy.
It helps to keep away the doctors with long bills.
It helps to make your eyes sparkle, and to make
your cheeks glow, and to make others love your
presence.—Country Gentleman.
	Cloth made Water-proof.—A writer in an English
paper says:—Good Scottish tweed can be made en-
tirely impervious to rain, and, moreover, I have
learned how to make it so; and, for the benefit of
your readers I will give the recipe:
	In a bucket of soft water put half a pound of
sugar of lead, and half a pound of powdered alum;
stir this at intervals, until it becomes clear; pour it
off into another bucket, and put the garment there-
in, and let it be in for twenty-four hours, and then
hang it up to dry, without wringing it. Two of
my party—a lady and gentleman—have worn gar-
ments thus treated in the wildest storms of wind
and rain, without getting wet. The rain hangs up-
on the cloth in globules. In short, they were really
waterproof. The gentleman, a fortnight ago, walk-
ed nine miles in a storm of rain and wind, such as
you rarely see in the South; and, when he slipped
off his overcoat, his underwear was as dry as when
he put them on. This is, I think, a secret worth
knowing; for cloth, if it can be made to keep out
wet, is, in every way, better than what we know as
most water-proofs.


TEA.—the use of tea is steadily increas-
ing year by year, in Great Britain. In 1873
the amount consumed had reached one hun-
dred and thirty-two million pounds.
	IN New England only seven per cent. of all
the inhabitants above the age of ten are
unable to read or write; yet out of that
small minority of illiterate persons comes
eighty per cent. of the criminals.—"Am.
Jour. of Education."


FLOWERS.

	HAPPINESS is always a home-made arti-
cle.
	HAPPY remarks are often made by very
unhappy men.
	HE is never alone that is in the company
of noble thoughts.
	IDLENESS is hard work for those who are
not used to it, and dull work for those who
are.
	THE cultivation of pleasant associations
is, next to health, the great secret of enjoy-
ment.
	A MAN too busy to take care of his health
is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his
tools.
	PURE affection must be combined with
good sense to produce the greatest amount
of true happiness.
	CITY life forces growth, and makes men
talkative and entertaining, but it also tends
to make them artificial.
	GOOD is slow; it climbs. Evil is swift, it
descends. Why should we marvel that it
makes great progress in a short time?
	HE gives twice who gives quickly, accord-
ing to the proverb; but a gift not only given
quickly, but unexpectedly is the most wel-
come of all.
	FUN is the most conservative element of
society, and ought to be cherished and en-
couraged by all lawful means. People never
plot mischief when they are merry.
	THE sinner may offend much against oth-
ers, but he always sins most against himself,
every iniquity falling with morally-debasing
and destructive force upon his own soul.
	WHEN will people learn that education is
a composite process, not confined to books
and teachers, but made up of the varied in-
fluences of home, fortune, and early asso-
ciation?
	IN a smiling region the man of money sees
only the relations of hay, grain, and wood;
his admiration, radiant with calculation, re-
duces nature to figures, and adds up the
scenery.
	LAUGHTER is an enemy to malice, a foe to
scandal, and a friend to every virtue. It
promotes good temper, enlivens the heart,
and brightens the intellect. Let us laugh
when we can.
	TRUE generosity rises above the ordi-
nary rules of social conduct, and flows
with too full a stream to be comprehended
within the precise marks of formal precepts.
It sanctifies every passion, and adds grace
to every acquisition of the soul.
	LET everything around you as far as you
can with honesty, wear an air of prosperity,
and you will, with God's blessing on your
honest endeavors, be sure to prosper. To
secure this end, you need not be extrava-
gant, nor make such a show as will not allow
of anything being put by in the savings
bank against a "rainy day."


AN Illinois farmer, determines the age of
a horse as follows: After the horse is nine
years old a wrinkle comes on the upper
corner of the lower eye lid, and every year
thereafter he has one well defined wrinkle
for every year over nine. If for instance a
horse has three wrinkles, he is twelve years
old.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿AN OPEN LETTER.

TO ANY GIRL WHO MAY CLAIM IT.

	They tell me you are what the world calls
a flirt, and you have openly boasted of the
conquests you have made through the power
of coquetry. Pause, I beg of you; it is not
yet too late; you cannot know whither this
tendency is leading you, or you would never
have entered the path. There are many
reasons why you should pause. The fact
that you are so debasing your womanhood
proves conclusively that you never could
have known the power of a passion that has
many times made demons of angels.
	Oh! you blush. It is well; it gives hope
for the future—it tells that you are not dead
to reason and shame. Shall I tell you why
you are on the brink of terrible danger?
Does not your own heart tell you that some
time, as there enters into the heart of every
man and woman, sooner or later, a love
stronger than death and true as truth, so it
must come to you, and in your soul of souls
you must feel that only the man worthy the
admiration and love of any woman is one
that would not for an instant trifle with the
affections of another? Do you think that
the true man whom you could honor as a
husband would care to take to his embrace a
wife whose lips had been sullied by careless
and promiscuous contact with any one who
had chanced to be the favorite of the hour?
	You may plead, in extenuation of your
fault, that you were engaged to those whose
caresses you permitted, but in the several
instances referred to discovered before it
was too late that you had mistaken a pass-
ing fancy for a lifelong affection. It is no
excuse at all. Indeed, it proves you weaker
than before. You have no right to promise
yourself in marriage to a man whom you
are not sure you can love until death. These
are not to be made matters of haste; and
when you so far forget your womanly dig-
nity as to snap at any chance bait that may
be offered, to find out later that you are mis-
taken, you must not wonder that  your name
is bandied carelessly about among your mas-
culine acquaintances, and the better kind of
men begin to shun you.
	There is a difference, my young friend,
between prudishness and womanly self-re-
spect, and you will always find that any
man, high or low, pure in thought or thor-
oughly debased, will not forget the defer-
ence due to a true woman. You ought to
know instinctively that familiarity is no
evidence of manly regard, and the proffered
caress too often springs from a motive so
base that I need not name it. Guard your-
self, then, that when the time does come in
which you can truly say to any man that he
is more to you than all else, you will have
no reluctance to lay before him the history
of your past life, unspotted by the breath of
suspicion, untarnished by practices not open
to the world; and, when the time does
come, as you would have true sympathy and
happiness in the future, give each other
your confidence regarding the past; let there
be no sealed pages, no forgotten details,
whose ghostly presence will haunt you ever
after, and, if discovered, cast a shadow be-
tween you and him who has trusted you.—
Ex.


The latest precious saying is by a little
girl on the Pacific Coast. She had torn one
of her nails to the quick, and going to her
mother, while the pain filled her eyes with
tears, said holding up the wounded finger,
"Mamma, I dess I shall have to go up to
Heaven and det anozzer put on."


﻿ENCOURAGING TO WOMEN.

	It is not many decades since Charles Lamb,
that gentle and charitable soul, said: "A fe-
male poet, or female author of any kind,
ranks below an actress I think." Mrs. Som-
erville, Harriet Martineau, Mrs. Mill, Fran-
ces Power Cobb, Margaret Fuller, Mrs.
Howe—scores of women of our time are the
sufficient refutation of the unworthy sneer.
When the brilliant Fox stopped Dr. Aiken
in the street to praise his volume of essays,
and, approving one after another, was told,
"That one my sister wrote," the wit and
gallant shifted the subject, not being pre-
pared to concede to a woman any powers of
original thinking. But our ablest critic
reads George Eliot with profound respect,
bending the best powers of his mind to com-
prehend her subtle yet bold thinking.
Grave theologians and eminent casuists are
set at naught by the audacious wit of Gail
Hamilton. And teh Ithuriel's spear of a
woman's genius, touching the hideous
wrong of slavery, which was above law, re-
vealed it to its swift destruction.
	It is not two generations since the laws of
every State in the Union bore most une-
qually and unjustly upon married women in
the matter of property, of wages, of divorce,
of the custody of their children or of the
claim to their services. In at least nineteen
of these States the influence of the agita-
tion about the "woman question" has modi-
fied the statutes to absolute or approximate
justice. Moreover, wives themselves have
not only obtained admission to the bar, but
have even delivered from the bench expo-
sitions of that science in whose own words
"the very being and existence of the woman
is suspended during the overture (of mar-
riage), or entirely merged and incorporated
in that of the husband."
	Elizabeth Blackwell took her reputation
in her hand, when, twenty years ago, she
went to Europe to walk the hospitals. Fash-
ionable women feared to lose caste if they
employed her on her return, and the college
of physicians looked askance at her. But
Dr. Mary Putman comes home from Paris
with a European reputation for scholarship
and capacity, and finds confidence, admira-
tion, competence, and the professional esprit
du corps awaiting her.
	It is not twenty years since Lucretia Mott
was refused permission to preach in Federal
Street Church, Boston. We do not remem-
ber how many women preachers to-day have
congregations. But counting those who
speak from that broad Church pulpit, the
Lyceum platform, the list is not small.
	When Florence Nightingale wished to
take charge of the Female Sanitarium she
could find no opportunity of instruction in
England. Now there is a model training
school for nurses in Liverpool, which is but
the predecessor of others; while our own,
though but in their inception, give promise
of great usefulness.
	When a school of design for women was
proposed in England, a petition was present-
ed to the authorities praying that women
might not be taught, at the expense of the
Government, occupations which would take
the bread out of the mouths of the men al-
ready engaged therein. Schools of design
give sufficient employment to many women
in France, Germany, England and America
to-day.
	Eighty years ago Mary Wollstonecraft
published her "Vindication of the Rights of
Woman." It was a book laid under ban as
irreligious and immoral. Yet it consists
simply of a forcible and logical plea for the
higher education of women, an exposure of
the false sentimentality of Rosseau and

[Column 2]
Gregory, and a claim that morality should
mean the same thing in both sexes. Half
of her demand has been conceded, and the
rest, if still denied, is not denounced.
	The question of co-education and of equal
education obtains more prosperous answers
day by day. The question of wider employ-
ments is almost lost in concession. The
question of wages, though far enough from
fair solution, is debated by a whole commu-
nity instead of by a handful of needy
women. 
	The question of suffrage alone seems not
to command the public thought, and seems
only. The Churches pay a modern respect
to the capacity, intelligence and business
aptitude of women unknown before our day
The Grangers, Good Templars and other
powerful societies recognize the eligibility
of woman—“Ch. Union.”


THE SEX.

	LADY Burdett Coutts is leading the cru-
sade against cruelty to animals in England.
	THE SUPREME Judicial Court of New
Hampshire has a new clerk, a lady.
	A YOUNG lady in Vermont is six feet
seven inches high, and she isn't stuck up,
either.
	MISS Emma S. Eastman, of Worcester,
was the first lady graduate of Cornell Uni-
versity.
	THE first lady ever appointed a collector
of internal revenue is Mrs. S. N. Parker, of
the fourth Indiana district.
	MADAM Camilla Urso's first exclamation,
when she was burned in Boston, the other
day, was, “Oh; shall I never play again?”
	MRS. Sibley, of Chelsea, Mass., has in-
vented a rotary loom, doing three times the
work of an ordinary loom in one-third the
space.
	IT is said that Mrs. General Sherman is
very much opposed to round dances, and
will not permit her daughters to participate
in them.
	MISS Jewell, eldest daughter of our min-
ister at St. Petersburgh is said to have been
the prettiest skater in the rink at a recent
skating festival over there.
	MISS Annie C. Howells, sister of the edi-
itor of the "Atlantic Monthly," and for-
merly literary editor of the Chicago "Inter-
Ocean," is engaged as literary editor of the
St. Louis "Globe."
	MRS. Betsy Dodge, of McConnellsville,
O., has added to previous and liberal dona-
tions to Buchtel College, a recent gift of $1,
000 for the benefit of the Woman's Profess-
orship,
	THE wife of Mr. John L. Shorey, pub-
lisher of the "Nursery," has served on the
School Committee of Lynn for three years.
She has proved to be a very influential
member of the board. Her services have
been saticfactory to all.
	A FEMALE graduate of the medical de-
partment of the Iowa University has taken
the first prize for the best performed dissec-
tion in surgical anatomy, in a class consisting
of twenty-two young men and one other
young woman.
	MISS Lucia W. Peabody has applied to the
Massachusetts Supreme Court for a writ of
mandamus against the Boston School Board
to show cause why she should not occupy the
seat in the Board to which she has been
elected.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿DIVERSIONS.
			——
	TABLE of interest—The dinner-table.
	NOT a case of necessity—A cigar case.
	A BLUNDER BUSS—Kissing the wrong girl.
	IF you are out in a driving storm, don’t
attempt to hold the rains.
	IT is remarked that wood will last much
longer if left for the women folks to saw and
split.
	IF a tailor agrees to put braid on a coat,
does he always consider the agreement bind-
ing?
	Q.—What piece of coin is doubled by tak-
ing away its half?
	A.—A half-penny.
	WHILE witnessing a game of base ball out
West a boy was struck on the back of his
head, the bawl coming out of his mouth.
	IN Decatur, Ill., when a young lady de-
clines an offer to convey her home, he asks
permission to sit on a fence and see her go
by.
	SOME people are easily satisfied. A Ken-
tucky lady recently had her arm amputated
by two surgeons “in a manner creditable to
the profession and satisfactory to the pa-
tient.”
	"KISSES," says Sam Slick, "are like crea-
tion, because they are made out of nothing,
and very good." "They are also," says the
Galaxy, "like sermons, requiring two heads
and an application."
	A CHAP from the country, stopping at one
of the hotels, sat down to dinner. Upon the
bill of fare being handed to him by the
waiter, remarked, that he didn't care
'bout readin' now—he'd wait till after din-
ner."
	"WHAT is a more exhilarating sight,"
asks a Vermont paper, "than to see eighteen
handsome girls sliding down hill on an ox-
sled?" "Nineteen," says the experienced
editor of the Boston "Post."
	A PRETTY and well dressed young lady,
after looking at several pairs of lavender
colored gloves in a shop, lately, shocked the
assistant by asking him which pair he
thought the "lavenderest."
	AN old minister enforced the diffence of
opinion by this argument: "Now, if every-
body had been of my opinion, they would
all have wanted my old woman." One of
the deacons, who sat behind, responded,
"Yes, and if everybody was of my opinion, 
nobody would have had her." 
	A JUSTICE, better versed in law than gos-
pel, not long since married a couple in this
way: "Hold up your right hands. You sol-
emnly swear that you will perform the du-
ties of your office, jointly and severally, ac-
cording to your best skill and judgment, so
help you God. Fee, one dollar."
	 FOOLISH Questions—"Will you take this
woman to be your wedded wife?" asked an
Illinois magistrate of the masculine of a
couple who stood up before him. "Well,
squire, you must be a tarnal green hand to
ask me such a question as that ar'. Do you
think I'd be such a plaguey fool as to go to
the bar hunt, and take this ar' gal from the
quiltin' frolic, if I wasn't conscriptuously sar-
tin and determined to have her? Drive on
with your business, and don't ax foolish
questions."
	A "RUNNER" for a Milwaukee house, a
few days ago, in La Crosse, was anxious to
cross the river on the ice, but was told itwas dangerous, so he got on his hands and
knees and crawled across, hauling a skiff on
the ice to get into if the ice broke. After
he had crawled about half way across, and
was all tired and dicouraged, he heard a
noise behind him, and, thinking the ice was
breaking he got on his knees, just as a load
of wood came up behind him. The ice was
a foot thick, and some other 'runners' had
played it on him. He is searching for the
fellow who told him the ice was thin.


ANECDOTE.

	In Cincinnati they tell a little story about
Mrs. Chief-Justice Waite. About a month
before General Grant had broached Mr.
Waite’s name to the Senate, Mrs. Waite
wrote an article on cookery for the Cincin-
nati Gazette. The article was signed “Yan-
kee Cook Girl.” It was full of sound sug-
gestions on the cookery question, and replete
with good advice to housekeepers. The ar-
ticle from the “Yankee Cook Girl” attracted
so much attention that finally a rich widow-
er in Cincinnati, wrote to Sam Reed, the
editor, that he would be glad to give the
“Yankee Cook Girl” a situation—not as a
servant, but that she might preside over his
household. In fact, he offered marriage.
Mr. Reed had to answer in a paragraph that
the “Yankee Cook Girl” was not in the mar-
ket, she having obtained a situation in a
neighboring city. The people of Cincinnati
don’t know even now that the “Yankee
Cook Girl” was Mrs. Waite, the sensible and
practical wife of the new Chief Justice, and
that her new situation is to be the highest
in the land—chief mistress in Uncle Sam's
household of law and justice.


WOMEN ON SCHOOL COMMITTEES.

	The majority of the Committee on Edu-
cation in the Constitutional Convention of
Ohio have reported a provision making
women over twenty-one years of age elegi-
ble to any office under the School laws of
that State. The Cleveland Herald is enthu-
siastically in favor of the change. It says:
“The convention should adopt it. The
movement for giving woman a fair share in
the government of the school system, as
they have to bear nearly all the burdens of
its execution in detail, is spreading over
the States. Ohio should not lag behind.
There is no sense in the idea that women
are the most competent to train children in
the family and make the best teachers in
the school-room, but are not fit to sit in the
body that frames the system of education
and makes the rules for the government of
schools. The absurdity of the present sys-
tem is shown in the fact that Boards of
Education now are frequently made up of
men who have no practical acquaintance
with the science of education, some of whom
have never been inside of a public school as
teacher or pupil before sitting in the Board,
and most of whom have no children in the
public schools, while the most judicious
mother, the most efficient woman teacher,
or the woman of large experience and ripe
judgment in matters of education is exclud-
ed from a seat in the board solely because
she is a woman.”


IN the Society of Friends where intem-
perance is not a predisposing cause, one
person in 1590 is insane. In society at large,
where intemperance is added to other pre-
disposing causes common to both, one person
in 745 is insane.


FROM DENMARK.

	Elder C. G. Larson writes us from Copen-
hagen; March 6th. He says:
	All is moving on harmoniously in the
Scandinavian Mission, and the work of God
is steadily progressing. Trusting also that
every thing is well in Zion; and notwith-
standing the efforts of political combination
of the “ring” and Congress to make special
legislation for Utah, we hope that the Saints
may be wide awake to their duties, and
live their religion that the Lord may deliv-
er His people and bring them off victorious
over sin and evil and over all that are
fighting against God and His Kingdom.


﻿MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
		Electricity administered when cases requre.
	Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.
MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m. 
MRS. CARPENTER, 
			Physician and Surgeon
Office at the Townsend house, Room No. 50.
		H. DINWO0DEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store on
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF.CO-OP. CORNER,
		Where he is prepared to do a
WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large-t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
		NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall he wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting.the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to this getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham- 
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
	30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-	 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time and addi-
tions can he made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


Woman's Exponent.

