VOL. 2.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1874.		NO. 18.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A RELIGIOUS man in Oregon refused to
join the Grangers because "they had let
women in." It is a great pity such men
have not a world to themselves.
	THE CORCORAN Art Gallery is built of
brick and brown stone and is said to be one
of the handsomest buildings in Washington,
D. C. It was opened to the public, as a fine
art exhibition on the 19th ult.
	DR. DIO Lewis thinks a baby should not
sleep with its parents because it must, when
placed thus, be constantly enhaling the im-
pure breath and poisonous emanations from
the bodies of the adults. The objection ap-
pears to be a reasonable one.
	DENMAN, THE School Superintendent of
San Francisco, has suspended nineteen
teachers, for repeated tardiness in entering
upon morning duties. This does not speak
so well for the enterprising spirit in the
cause of education in that city.
RACHEL, THE French actress, is said to
have received a salary of only $7,200 a year,
in her best time. If that [---] [--] [---] sal-
ary for "playing," what estimate should be
placed upon the labors of those who work
hard, many of whom receive less than half
that amount?
	ONE OF the sadest stories of recent date,
is told by a young woman who was saved
from the "Ville de Havre." She gives
her name as Miss Edgar. Being an expert
swimmer, she was able for a long time to
support herself and her mother in the wa-
ter. But at last becoming numbed and ex-
hausted, she could no longer cling to that
one—her best and dearest of all earthly
friends—and unable to assist her farther,
saw her slowly sink away and settle under
the water, scarcely a moment before the
boat appeared, by which she was rescued.
	TRAGEDIES ARE now transacted as fre-
quently, or nearly so, at the home hearth,
in some parts of the country, as upon the
stage of the theatre. Within three days,
but recently, we have found cases recorded
of as many wife murders, in news jour-
nals from different localities. In giving a
moment's reflection to these terrible state-
ments, we are led to wonder why Utah and
her domestic institutions, in which rarely
if ever any thing of a like nature may be
chronicled as local, should be derided or con-
demned by any other portion of the world—
more particularly by any woman.
	A LADY writer has stated that twelve
years ago she came west with the prospect
of speedy death, according to one of New
England’s best physicians. But she now re-
joices in perfect health restored. And this
happy result she attributes to the interesting
occupation of "bee tending," which has
kept her much of the time in the open air.
She recommends this healthy vocation to
women, especially those delicately inclined.
Whether the "bee tending" is beneficial as
a health restoritive or not—and we doubt
not it would so prove in many instances—
open air exercise is what thousands of peo-
ple suffer for, when believing themselves
in need of other, less simple remedies.
[Column 2]
	WE FIND the following in the "Washing-
ton Capital" of a late date. "A good, or
rather a bad story has leaked out and is in
active circulation regarding a famous sena-
tor, whose name has figured extensively in
these columns, as it has throughout the
country. It seems that a very respectable
lady, once a belle and yet quite handsome,
finding herself beggared by the present fi-
nancial crisis, sought employment from the
Government. She brought a letter of in-
troduction to our able-bodied senator and
had an appointment made with him, at his
request, in a committee-room of the Senate.
They met alone, and the solon soon shifted
himself from the chair to the sofa upon
which the lady sat; and then, as he grew
interested in her, put his senatorial arm
about her slender waist and attempted to
bring the orifice of his intellectual edifice,
called, through courtesy, a head, to bear on
her mouth. The poor woman, struggling
from his brutal assault, started up and asked
the man what he meant by such an insult.
"Insult! insult Madam!" responded the
solon. "I meant no insult; this is the neces-
sary preliminary to [--] [--] service exami-
nation." We need not say that this neces-
sary preliminary ended there and then, and
the poor, distressed woman was seen to steal
from the Capitol building crying over the in-
dignity and degredation offered her." We
have no authority upon which to mention
the name of the honorable (?) "solon," of
whom this story is related; but we doubt
not that he is a near relative, in spirit at
least, to those generous, pitying souls who
are so anxious to have Congress do something
for the emancipation of the “poor, ignorant,
illused women of Utah.”
	HENRY B. Blackwell, of the “Woman’s
Journal,” has a good deal to say, and says it
in rather forcible language, concerning the
measures taken by certain members in Con-
gress with the view of disfranchising the
women of Utah. We clip the following:
The repeal of Woman Suffrage was not even
alluded to during a long debate in the Sen-
ate upon a bill which disfranchises the
women of Utah and which makes any fu-
ture attempt by a woman to vote, a misde-
meanor punishable with fine and imprison-
ment, and prohibits the men of the Terri-
tory from ever again extending Suffrage to
women. This is, indeed, a conclusive evi-
dence of the necessity of Woman Suffrage!
Think of it! Senator Wilson was present,
who had himself introduced a Bill to give
women Suffrage in the Territories. Half-a-
dozen other Senators, known to be in favor
of Woman Suffrage, were present. And yet
these men all sat silent and several of them
voted for this bill which takes away suffrage
from the women of Utah. Henceforth let
women trust no man to represent their po-
litical interests who is not elected in part by
the votes of women. It is a crowning evi-
dence of the truth of the maxim that "no 
one class can safely be trusted to represent
another." * * * The population of Utah
is divided into two hostile classes, Mormons
and Gentiles. The Mormon voters, even
without the women, largely exceed the
Gentiles in number. But this preponder-
ance is increased by the votes of the women
because almost all the women of Utah hap-
[Column 3]
pen to be Mormons. Indeed, almost all the
resident population, the farms, the homes of
Utah, are composed of Mormons. They are
a peaceable, industrious people, devoted to
their peculiar observances, with a theology
which not only permits but inculcates poly-
gamy as an article of faith, and are charac-
terized by the exclusiveness of social feel-
ing, which sectarianism develops and perse-
cution intensifies. The Gentiles, on the con-
trary, are chiefly composed of miners;
rough, reckless frontiersmen, without fixed
homes, without wives or female relatives.
This floating population is naturally jealous
of Mormon supremacy and impatient of re-
straints, whether salutary or otherwise.
When a Gentile sees a Mormon and the wo-
men of his family cast several votes, he does
not stop to consider that he might neutral-
ize these votes by making a home and in-
viting his female relatives to leave the East
and settle with him in Utah. Nor does he
ask himself whether these women have not
quite as much right to vote as himself, upon
questions which equally concern all [-] [--]
[---] [--] [--] [---] numerical dis-
advantage and appeals to the authorities in
Washington to strike down the women.
And such men as Senator Frelinghuysen are
prompt to do his cowardly bidding. * * *
The utter indifference of Congress to the
rights of the women of Utah is in singular
contrast to its almost morbid sensitiveness in
regard to the rights of colored men. Sup-
pose that the Senate Judiciary Committee,
in view of the very "peculiar condition" of 
South Carolina, had quietly reported a bill,
the effect of which would be to deprive
colored men of suffrage? Would a long de-
bate have taken place without a single allu-
sion to the proposed "limitation of suffrage"
to white men? On the contrary, Mr. Sum-
ner would have exhausted the resources of
eloquent invective, and every Republican
Senator would have denounced the proposi-
tion as a conspiracy against liberty. Let us
hope that the day will come when the rights
of women will find as many and as earnest
defenders in the Congress of the United
States as the rights of colored men find now.
But that day will never dawn until the
women of America are armed with the bal-
lot.


﻿A WIFE’S RIGHTS.

	It is a great mistake for a husband to keep
his wife in ignorance of his business affairs.
In ordinary families it is she who regulates
the out-go, and she ought to know what is
the income. A few weeks ago I heard a
young wife just in the early experience of
houskeeping, say, “How shall I know
whether we are living beyond our means?
I can’t get any idea of what we have to
spend; and while I try to be very careful, of
course, I might spend less on our table if we
were getting in debt.” Surely she ought
not to be blamed if the debt and credit ac-
counts are not prosperous. A loving and
anxious wife suffers untold imaginary fears
if she sees a tired or perplexed expression
on her husband’s face, unless she is assured
of the truest confidence between them, and
knows that no great concern of his is kept
a secret from her.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


THE TOAST.

	The feast is o'er; now brimming wine
	In lordly cup is seen to shine
		Before each royal guest;
	And silence fills the crowded hall,
	As deep as when the herald's call
		Thrills through the loyal breast.

	Then up arose the gallant host,
	And smiling cries "A toast! A toast!
		To all our ladies fair!
	Here, before all, I pledge the name
	Of Stanton's proud and beauteous dame,
		The Lady Gandomare."

	Then one by one the guests sprang up,
	And drained in turn the brimming cup,
		And named the loved one's name;
	And as his cup on high he raised,
	His lady's grace or beauty praised,
		Her constancy or fame.

	'Tis now St. Leon's turn to rise,
	On him are fixed those countless eyes,
		A gallant knight is he;
	Envied by some, admired by all,
	Fair famed in ladies' bower and hall,
		The flower of chivalry.

	St. Leon raised his kindling eye,
	And tossed the sparkling cup on high––
		"I drink to one," he said,
	"Whose memory never shall depart,
	Deep graven on this grateful heart,
		Till memory be dead!

	To one whose love for me shall last
	When lighter passions long have past,
		So holy 'tis, and true;
	To one whose love for me hath dwelt,
	More deeply fixed, more keenly felt
		Than any pledged to you."

	Each knight up started at the word,
	And laid a hand upon his sword,
		With fire flashing eye;
	And Stanley cried––"We crave the name
	Proud knight, of this most peerless dame,
		Whose love you count so high:"––

	St. Leon paused––as though he would
	Not breathe the name in careless mood,
		Thus lightly to another;
	Then bowed his noble head as though
	To give the word its reverence due,
		And gently said––"MY MOTHER!"


﻿R. S. REPORTS.

	Mrs. Matilda P. Killian, Secretary of the
Salem, Utah Co., R. S., reports their annual
meeting held Jan. 7th.  Bishop Joseph Tan-
ner and Brother Henry G. Boyle, from Pay-
son were present; also quite a number of
other brethren, and a full attendance of sis-
ters.  An interesting, pleasurable, and ben-
eficial meeting was held, with which every
one who participated, seemed to be well
satisfied.  The Society in Salem, though
small, is moving forward in good works;
and those connected with it, feel determined
to do their part in assisting to bring about
the great plan of redemption.  Sister Mary
C. Read is President of the Society.
	From Ogden we have received an interest-
ing account of meetings lately held by the
young folks, Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs.
Zina D. Young being present by invitation.
The young ladies met in the afternoon, and
an evening meeting was appointed, to
which the young gentlemen were invited.
Before the time specified for the opening of
the evening meeting, the hall was filled to
overflowing.  After addresses had been made
by the visitors and several senior residents
of the city, twenty-eight young ladies and
nineteen young gentlemen made remarks,
thanking those who had been instructing
them, thanking and praising the Lord and
bearing testimony of his goodness, and the
truth of His Gospel.  In all, the speakers
druing the evening amounted to fifty-nine.
The Secretary, Mrs A. M. Frodsham, con-
cludes her report by saying "A great deal
of good is being accomplished through the


efforts of the sisters.  May God bless all
who are engaged in the good work."
	A report from West Weber, informs us
that on the 13th of January, Miss E. R.
Snow and Mrs. Zina D. young, met with the
Relief Society of that settlement. There
were also several visitors from Ogden pres-
ent.  The assemblage was large, the meet-
ing an interesting and a profitable one.
Mrs. Jane S. Richards was nominated, and
unanimously sustained by the members of
that Society, as President of all the Relief
Societies of Weber Co.  Mrs. Mary Douglas
is President and Mrs. Puah S. Hart Secre-
tary of the West Weber Society.
	The Washington Relief Society, reports a
meeting held on January 28th; at which
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith,Lucy B. Young,
Snow, Ivins, Crosby, Townsend and others
from St. George were present.  An excel-
lent meeting was held, and the Society felt
greatly blessed and benefitted from the en-
couragement and instructions received from
the missionary Sisters.
			B. A. GOODEL, President,
			JANE FREEMAN, Secretary.
	Sister Jane S. Coleman, Secretary of the
Relief Society of Smithfield, writes us that
on the 2nd inst., a very interesting meeting
was held by the Society of that place. The
sisters felt well and spoke good things, and
the Spirit of God was manifestly present in
their midst.


[Column 1]
	     ﻿FROM BOUNTIFUL.

EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT;
	Will you give an "out sider" space in
your columns to make a few remarks?
	Two years ago I came to Utah, sharing
the general prejudice of Gentiles against
an institution they know nothing of. I be-
lieved them—the Mormons—to be ALL that
the most uncharitable had said. I expected
to find them ENEMIES in every sense of the
word to "Gentiles. I found them FRIENDS,
Brothers and Sisters. Kind, hospitable,
charitable and forgiving.
	For two years I have lived in their midst;
their private life is no sealed book to me,
and their extreme forbearance, and patience
under the wrongs inflicted upon them are,
indeed creditable to them.
	Mormon men and women alike, seem to
lean confidingly upon that strong arm that
never faileth, and in all their trials, look
above for wisdom and guidance. As a peo-
ple I consider the Mormons CHRISTIANS in
every sense of the word. A religion which
enables people to go through such over-
whelming troubles, with such serene hope-
fulness, cannot be IMMORAL.
	The Mormon religion calls forth all the
best, holiest, purest impulses of the human
heart. A wholly corrupt, bad person CAN-
NOT BE a MORMON in the true acceptance of
the word.
	Particularly have I interested myself in
the DOMESTIC life of these people of Zion.
	That there are wrongs, and cruel ones, ex-
isting now in Utah, I do not deny; but not
the wrongs—claimed by Mrs. Ann Eliza
Young to be laid upon them by the CHURCH.
The Gentiles (my own people, grieved as I am
to say it) are the wrong doers. They have
commenced a system of persecution against
these people in THEIR OWN LAND, that may
end in sorrow to all.
	I have read Mrs. Ann Eliza Young’s Lec-
ture delivered in Denver, Colorado. I re-
member of once reading—“A LIE that is
PART a lie is a hard matter to fight.” If
this be so, Ann Eliza has not even availed
herself of this weak subterfuge. FALSE is

[Column 2]
stamped upon her lecture from Alpha to
Omega.
	For instance: imagine any enlightened
people giving credence to such a statement
as this:—“In the Presidents household, they
have what is called “ration day,” once a
month; each family receives—five (5) lbs.
sugar, 1 lb candles, a BAR (not box) of soap,
and one (1) box matches.” This paragraph
requires no comments to those who have
seen and know President Young and his
family. It speaks for itself. And if, as she
says,—“The poor and helpless in Utah are
the abject slaves of the rich and powerful,”
from my experience I believe their “sla-
very” to be sweet, and their “ignorance”
bliss indeed.
	I do not wish nor intend to comment upon
Mrs. Ann Eliza’s Lecture; as I said before,
to intelligent thinking minds it speaks for
itself. She may be a very estimable lady,
but nature, in her formation, evidently for-
got two most important ingredients—Truth
and Gratitude.
	I have many dear friends among the Mor-
mons. And I believe these people are sus-
tained by powers not of earth, and that they
will come forth from under this dark cloud
of persecution, purer, firmer in their FAITH
(if this be possible,) and stronger than ever.
I may not believe in all points of their relig-
ion, nevertheless, it is no reason why I can-
not see the good in it. THEY do not believe
in MINE, yet they have never persecuted
me because I saw fit to worship God one
way, they another. And because I may not
consider President Young to be an inspired
Prophet of God, does this prohibit me from
thinking him a most excellent gentleman, a
kind husband and father, a man of principle
and sterling integrity, a man well calculated
to lead a people of sense and righteousness
to God? It does not. And I believe in the
Celestial Kingdom a bright crown of glory
awaits him; and I, a GENTILE WOMAN, hope
to meet him there, after all the turmoil and
persecutions of this life are over, where, I
believe, Mormon, Jew and Gentile will be
rewarded according to the works done here
in the flesh.
	Dear Editor, will you kindly pardon this
intrusion upon your valuable time? I felt
I must write you, if only a few words, to
convey my thoughts and feelings towards
my Mormon friends.
	Your prosperity will always cause me ex-
treme pleasure. Any adversity that may
fall upon your people, the deepest sorrow.
And believe me ever your TRUE friend,
though a				"GENTILE."


A WOMAN FARMER.

	During the past season, Miss Caroline
Jaques, of South Groveland, Mass., raised
from one acre of land, thirty bushels of pop-
corn, and from one-fourth of an acre, thir-
teen bushels of potatoes. From her garden
she gathered two bushels of turnips, two
bushels of beans, and one hundred squashes,
also beets, cabbages, peas, etc., in abundance.
All this was the fruit of her own cultiva-
tion, unaided, after the ground was prepared
for the reception of the seed. In addition
to this Miss Jaques has cleared the rocks
from one-fourth of an acre of ground. The
harvesting was also all performed by her
own hands, and the corn, which is mostly
sold, has been born to market by herself in
small quantities, and on foot. She resides
four miles from Haverhill, which has been
the principle market for her products. Miss
Jaques is fifty-eight years of age, and has
hitherto been chiefly occupied as a seam-
stress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]					﻿
					[For the EXPONENT.
  REFLECTIONS ON CHARITY AND
		   GOOD WORKS,

		BY H. D. COLLINS.

	   True, godly principles evinced
		In actions good and kind,
	   But seldom fail of skill to heal,
		And to reform the mind.

	   The stranger feels the lenient hand
		Of charity and grace;
	   No longer doubt that God is love,
		When thus we learn his ways.

	"Let your light so shine before men, that
they may see your good works, and glorify your
Father which is in heaven." Mathew, 5th
chap. 16th verse.
	I believe that every kind and charitable
deed or act that is wrought by the spirit and
influence of divine grace, or through love
and respect to the word and commandments
of God, the same will be recognized and ap-
probated of God; in all cases where suffer-
ing humanity require those acts, whether
the supplicant be called saint or sinner. Al-
though, I think the latter has sometimes
been vainly substituted as a foundation for
objectionable causes, and excuses for neg-
lect, even in circumstances of special need.
But this theorem, I consider no model for
us, who profess to be the disciples and fol-
lowers of Jesus Christ, for we do not acquire
our moral virtue, or system of practice, pre-
cepts and rules through the crafty and
churlish devices of worldly and wicked in-
fluences where there is neither foundation
nor chance for Salvation. But we have a
prototype of divinely better morals, which
teaches us to love our enemies, bless those
who curse us, do good to those who hate us
and pray for those who despitefully use and
persecute us, that we may be the children
of our Father in heaven. We understand
that Christ came not to call the righteous,
but sinners to repentance, and for this end
should we not labor? "Know ye not," saith
the apostle Paul, “that if ye convert a sin-
ner from the error of his ways, ye have sav-
ed a soul from death, and covered a multi-
tude of sins?” And I believe that Gospel
charity, whether it be of words or deeds
being administered in the spirit of loving
kindness, will, with God’s help, result in
much good. And if the effect does not im-
mediately appear, the administration may,
after many days be brought to remembrance,
and be the very means which God may use
in His providence, to bring about timely
conversion and heartfelt gratitude to Him.
But let faith and works be combined in all
our contributions of charity, and special acts
of kindness, that they may be approved of
God, and attended with divine blessing.
Then we shall see the afflicted rejoice, and
when they find the salvation of God in this
way, our hearts will be made glad, and we
shall be led to rejoice in the riches of his
goodness, being made the hopeful instru-
ments of his grace in saving souls from
death, and of covering or preventing multi-
tudes of sin. If we labor for righteousness’
sake, our reward is sure. Finally let us
strive with all diligence, and pray earnestly
that our hearts become sanctified to God,
pure and holy—that all we do, whether at
home or abroad may be done in righteous-
ness, and with an eye to his glory; for by
our works we shall be judged. I believe
that in this great and last dispensation of the
fulness of times, there will be much requir-
ed of the people of God, both to do and to
endure. And without the whole armor of
godliness, I think we shall be found want-
ing. I feel for one, that I have much to do
and much to gain before I shall be able to
accomplish altogether a good purpose in this
point of view. But by the grace of God, I

[Column 2]
can say that I do not feel at all discouraged;
for the Gospel truth truly grows brighter
and brighter to me. And I am resolved to
press forward “toward the mark for the
prize of the high calling of our God in
Christ Jesus,” keeping this heavenly at-
tainment or prize in view, and closely ad-
hering to my abiding motto, “Faith, Hope
and Perseverance.” I believe there is no
opposite power that shall be able to stay our
onward progress unto victory, nor separate
us from the love of God, which is in Christ
Jesus, if we neglect not our little duties of
each day. And I would here say to my be-
loved friends and co-workers in the king-
dom and patience of Jesus Christ:—Let us
not be slothfull, neither let us be weary in
well doing; for we shall reap in due time, if
we faint not. That we who bear the name
of Christ may so fulfill our missions here, as
to gain an eternal exaltation in the Kingdom
of our God, is my ardent hope and prayer.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN.

	Woman what art thou? A mere weed
which has so cumbersome grown that it is
to be plucked and burned as stuble? Or art
thou from the animal creation of that por-
tion which has become so numerous that it
is worthless because of its number?
	The pearl says, "I am sought from my
hiding place because of my worth." Man,
for what sought ye woman? To gratify the
lower passions of thy nature, the animal
man? Or was it to add more brilliancy, and
more stars to thy crown? Thus a high and
holy nature to gratify, a nature that charac-
terizes a Damon a Pythias a God! The Bible
declares that man (mankind) the noblest
work of God was the last that was placed
on earth, and all other things were formed
first, for the especial benefit of man; also
that God pronounced man and woman one
flesh. God took much pains for man (and
for woman as she is a part of man:) to con-
sider his necessities, to bring from chaos
and organize for his comfort, He toiled six
days, as we read six thousand years. But
woman was essential, and necessary to com-
plete the great design, and He saw that He
had made an aching void in the heart of
man that could not be filled without a com-
panion, and that was woman. He also de-
creed that she should be called by man his
mother, his wife, and they, one flesh. Then
man, what are you doing when you allow
one portion of yourself to go to decay, and
with your own hand kindle a consuming
fire to destroy, or sever from you that which
God designed should be a part of yourself?
That part too in which your glory rests! O
man behold her worth! Think ye there is
no accountability to God for your steward-
ship of this refined portion of his work? Is
there no responsibility on your part, to estab-
lish your identiy as a husband? And when
you have sacredly covenanted before God to
love, and cherish, and to fulfill all duties
and obligations pertaining to the holy order
of matrimony, is there no trust to which
you are bound to be faithful? If not, then
wife thou hast none. But to thy God thou
art bound to ever love and respect, for He
has established His identity in thy organi-
zation.
	Woman with her vine like nature, reach-
ing, clinging, twining, arives at her zenith
if she has a staunch support. Although her
nature feeble and pliant, may be in a state of
apathy for a time, if it has been blunted by
a rude hand, which perhaps has carelessly,
thoughtlessly deprived it of its object.
When it again recovers sufficient strength,
it will reach for another object; for this is a

[Column 2]
law of nature, a law of God. There is a
tie of affection, a cord of love, carded by
acts of friendship, spun by patience, and
sized by the milk of human kindness. And
this woven by continued endurance, will
form a mantle of charity that will cover all
defects of the human heart and make per-
fect union.
	Woman is man's teacher; from the cra-
dle she begins to form his character; and his
future, whether good or bad, is more or less
the result of woman's training. Hence, the
necessity of woman's school. She should
gather wisdom from the fountain of all
intelligence, and her fund of knowledge
should be inexhaustable. If she realizes the
extent of her mission on earth, her moments
will be to her as so many pearls, by which to
ornament the mind. Her bounds should not
be limited to the mere menial duties of life,
she should be allowed a free pass to the store-
house of knowledge, that she may acquaint
herself with facts that will enable her to
mold and frame mechanically, the charac-
ter and consequent course of future genera-
tions. Woman should aspire to dwell on the
pinnacle for which nature has designed her,
as the mother of nations. Heaven has en-
dowed woman with powers so suited to her
calling, she watches the cradle of sleeping
innocence, and with vigilance aids the steps
of youth to manhood; and with gentle train-
ing, with affection, stamps woman, and
mother, on its every thought. She has in-
spired in man's heart a desire to take a part-
ner in life, a "fac simile" of his teacher in
childhood. And as his dreams of childhood
are fraught with such vivid recollections,
how can he fail to behold the beauty of
woman, and love her as his mother, sister
and wife?					"I'LL TRY."


POSTAGE ON PRINTED MATTER.

	By request, we publish the following list
of present postal rates on printed matter,
sent to any part within the United States.
	The postage, per-quarter of three months,
on newspapers and magazines, not weigh-
ing over four ounces each, is, to regular sub-
scribers; for
Dailies, (seven times a week)....................35cts.
		(six times week)...........................30 " 
Tri- weeklies..............................................15 "
Semi-weeklies............................................10 "
Weeklies......................................................5 "
Semi-monthlies............................................6 "
Monthlies.....................................................3 "
Quarterlies....................................................1 "
	These rates must be paid in advance,
either quarterly or yearly at the office where
the newspaper or magazine is received. 
	Books, 2 cents, for each two ounces or
fraction thereof.
	Samples of merchandise, metals, ores, and
specimens, 2 cents on each two ounces or
fraction thereof; limited to twelve ounces.
	Single newspapers and all other printed
or miscellaneous matter; (except books) as
pamphlets, occasional publications, hand
bills, circulars, proof-sheets, book manu-
scripts, photographs, etc., also seeds, cut-
tings, bulbs and roots, 1 cent for each two
ounces or fraction thereof, all of which must
be prepaid.
	Manuscript for publication in newspapers,
magazines, etc. is charged letter postage
rates.
	Stamps cut from stamped letters are of no
use for postage.
	The greatest weight allowed for any pack-
age of printed or miscellaneous matter is
four pounds avoirdupois.


Portland has a population of 10,000 to the square
mile.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		    L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.
		
	       	    SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.
	Judge Guigon of Richmond, Va., has re-
fused to grant a petition of the colored citi-
zens of that place, asking that colored men
be put on Juries when colored criminals are
to be tried.....There are 32,000 citizens
in New York State, under sentence for 
felonies...Henry M. Stanley, who led a small
body of men through Central Africa, two
years ago, in search of Dr. Livingstone the
great African traveler, has recently comple-
ted a book for big boys which treats of the
life and ways of the people of Central Af-
rica......Carlotta Bettini, the Italian revo-
lutionist, recently died at the age of sixty-
one......The ladies of Edinburgh are said to
contemplate presenting in their name, a
suitable gift to the Princess Marie of Rus-
sia, on the occasion of her marriage with
the Duke of Edinburgh.......White coal has
been discovered and is coming into very
general use on the Australian continent......
Colored people are excluded from the grange
movement in Maryland and Virginia......
Corporal punishment has been abolished in
the high schools in Boston......China proper
is said to be the most densely peopled re-
gion of the world, and to contain at present,
one-third of the human race......Miss Stet-
son of Normal, Ill. has been sent as a medi-
cal missionary to India......Mrs. Patterson of
Greenville, Tenn., a daughter of ex-Presi-
dent Johnson, has the reputation of being
the best butter maker in that place.....There
is but one woman editor in Mississippi......
The life of Agassiz, written by his wife, will
soon be ready for publication......A son of
Charles Dickens has recently been called to
the bar......The two rival British statesmen,
Gladstone and Disraeli, are of nearly the
same age, the former being 64, the latter 68
.....Dr. Stephen Smith, the Health Com-
missioner of New York, says that intemper-
ance is alarmingly on the increase among
women in high as well as low life......An
equestrian statue of Joan of Arc, life size
and in bronze, has been ordered of M. Fre-
mier, by the French Government......The
Protestant pastor of Madrid, Don Antonio
Carrasco, was lost in the Ville de Havre......
Mr. John Stuart Mills' Autobiography is
exciting great attention in England......The
"Washington Capital" calls Grace Green-
wood "One of the most admirable corres-
pondents known to our newspaper world."
.....St. Louis has given Nilsson an enthusi-
astic reception.....A widow in Maine burn-
ed her home because the law said she must
give it to the brothers of her deceased hus-
band according to his will.......Mrs. Webster,
a skilled physician, has been appointed pro-
fessor of Hygiene and Physician at Vassar
College......Lady Burdett Coutts leads the
crusade against cruelty to animals in Eng-
land......A lady of Elsworth, Maine, is can-
vassing that city, obtaining signatures to a
petition to the Legislature to have the po-
litical disabilities of woman removed.


LADY MEMBERS OF THE BOSTON
		SCHOOL BOARD.

	The recently elected lady members of the
Boston School Board seem to be well quali-
fied for the office. Miss Abbie W. May has
long been identified with the charities of
Boston. At her home in Exeter Place was
begun the work of the Sanitary Commis-
sion in Boston, and in all the enterprizes
which were set on foot during the war for
the benefit of the soldiers Miss May took a
most active part. In education Miss May
has taken a great interest, and her views on


the subject are to be decidedly progres-
sive. Miss Lucia M. Peabody is a lady of
fourteen years' experience as a teacher, and
knows perfectly not only the system of edu-
cation that prevails there, but is, by her long
experience peculiarly qualified to judge as
to the requirements of education in the fu-
ture. She had in charge many years ago
the excellent school which was begun by
Mrs. Lowell. Miss Lucretia Crocker is the
daughter of Mr. Henry Crocker, President
of the Union Insurance Company. The fact
that she has been for several years one of
the faculty in Antioch College, Ohio, suffi-
ciently explains the unanimity with which
she was chosen to the School Board from
Ward 11. Her knowledge of educational
subjects, in all branches, is said to be great;
she can hardly fail to do good work for the
cause of education. Mrs. Ann Adeline Bad-
ger, of Ward 9, was graduated at Oberlin
College, Ohio, and has for sometime man-
aged a large private school in Boston. She
has devoted her life to educational matters,
and is perfectly competent to perform the
duties which will devolve upon her. She
has assistance in the management of her
school, so that she will be able to spare the
time which the performance of these duties
will require.—"New York Tribune."


NEWS AND VIEWS.

	If any lady expects to make a fortune by
adopting the name of "Young," and "telling
what she knows about Mormonism," in St.
Louis, she had better calculate on doing it in
one night. The people there don't turn out
well to see such a show the second time.
	The present session of the Territorial Legisla-
ture will close in about six days. Judging from
the way in which work was apparently being
pushed through, in both houses, when we vis-
ited them, we should say, the gentlemen com-
posing the legislative bodies will have the sat-
isfaction of feeling that they have done their
part to accomplish much good for their constit-
uents.
	On the 2nd instant, Mr. Mellish, on leave in-
troduced in the House of Representatives at
Washington, the following bill; which was read
twice, ordered printed and referred to the Com-
mittee on Territories: "A Bill to relieve the
women citizens of the Territories from politi-
cal disabilities."
	"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Amer-
ica in Congress assembled, That from and after
the passage of this act no female citizen of the
United States, residing in any of the Territo-
ries thereof, shall be debarred from exercising
the right of suffrage at any election held in
such Territory, anything in the laws of the
United States or in the laws of said Territory
to the contrary notwithstanding."
	There is good sound sense contained in this
little bill, and we trust Congress may see it.


On the 10th and 11th instants, news came
from Xenia and Cincinnati, Ohio, concerning
the Woman's War on Whisky, of a very encour-
aging nature. May their work continue until
the desired end is accomplished. A portion of
a telegram in relation to it, informs us that
in Washington, Ohio, a man named Passmore
opened a new saloon last week and immediate-
ly the whole moral and religious power of
the town turned upon him. Ladies prayed be-
fore the door all day and till half-past ten at
night. During a snow storm an immense pro-
cession marched to Beck's, who had enjoined
the women from using a tabernacle in front of
his place. Those enjoined remained in church
to pray. Beck on seeing the procession, said he
too would stop; only one remains, and he asks for
another day to consider. At Blanchester all of
the saloons are closed. At Logan the ladies
likewise celebrate a complete victory. At Lan-
caster and other places the work is beginning.
At Pomeroy a society has been organized on
the principle that there is enough moral and
religious power in the city to exterminate the
business of trafficking in intoxicating drink,
and will resort to law only when other means
fail.


NEW PUBLICATIONS.

	We have received the Jan. No. of "The Illus-
trated Journal," a periodical printed on fine
tinted paper, said to be better for the eyes than
the clear white paper in general use. The en-
gravings are excellent. It contains an inter-
esting, illustrated article, on "Utah and her
Institutions." "The Popular Science Monthly"
a work valuable to the professional and ama-
teur scientist. Also "St. Nicholas," a maga-
zine full of good pictures and pleasant reading
for the young. The above works are for sale at
Jas. Dwyer's, Main Street.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MISS GEORGIA SNOW has been nominated by
the Governor for Territorial Librarian.

	THE POSTAGE on the EXPONENT is six cents
a quarter, or twenty-four cents a year paid in
advance.

	A PRIVATE communication from Cache Val-
ley, informs that the meetings held by the home
Missionaries, throughout the county are hav-
ing a happy tendency in stirring up the Saints
to renewed diligence in the way of Salvation.

	OUR CITY readers should not fail to notice
that Mr. Moore, the postmaster, has provided
a drop letter box, expressly for city letters. It
is placed near to where the registered letter,
and money order window was formerly, and its
contents are to be distributed every hour.

	BEING EVER ready to pick up items credita-
ble to our sex, we were pleased to hear Bishop
Thos. Callister, of Fillmore, when recently ad-
dressing the 14th Ward Sunday school, say,
that as far as his knowledge extended, every
young lady of that place attended Sunday
school, either as a teacher or scholar.

	THE RELIEF SOCIETY of the Seventh Ward
held a pleasant party in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms, on last Wednesday evening. Mrs.
M. A. Needham, Mrs. M. T. Beatie, Mrs.
Jane Evans, Mrs. S. Dinwoody, Miss Josie
Evans and Mrs. Mary Woodbury were the
ladies composing the commitee. We tender
many thanks for kind remembrance, in the
form of an early invitation.


TRACK LAYING on the Utah Nothern R. R.,
between Ogden, and Brigham cities, was com-
pleted on Thursday, the 5th inst. Travelers can
now take the morning train here and, with
one change only, get to Logan by mid-day.
Which is much more pleasant than by the for-
mer route, with its two changes and arrival
near midnight, at its Nothern terminus. The
energy and public enterprise of those gentle-
men, who have labored so successfully are com-
mendable.
	AT THE monthly meeting of the Deseret
Sunday School Union, held on the evening of
the 3rd inst. considerable attention was direct-
ed to the subject of amateur theatres, in con-
nection with Sabbath School entertainments.
It was considered by a majority of the speakers
that songs, recitations, readings and all exer-
cises comprising Sabbath School entertain-
ments should be of that character only which
is best calculated to carry a good influence,
morally or religiously.
	AT THE Nominating Convention, which was
held in the Old Tabernacle, on the afternoon of
Saturday, the 31st ult., for the purpose of nomi-
nating city officers, we were pleased to note,
that a goodly number of ladies were present.
There are, however, some intelligent women
in this city, having the right of elective fran-
chise, who are too indifferent to exercise the
power they hold in this respect. But with the
opportunities now afforded for the advance-
ment of women, in this Territory, we hope to
see all such weaknesses overcome in the early
future.
	MONDAY, THE 9th inst., was an active day
among the voters of this city, it being the one ap-
pointed for the municipal election. At one time
five different tickets were in the field, but by
Monday morning only two worthy of notice--the
non-Mormon party having withdrawn their
ticket and given their full support to the Mor-
mon-opposition ticket, composed of old resi-
dents and Mormons, several names being the
same as those on "The People's Ticket." As
far as we konw, the day was not marked by
any particular difficulty or disturbance. The
number of lady voters is said to have been
greater than at any former election held here.
Notwithstanding the strong opposition "The
Peoples Ticket" carried the day by a very large
majority. The officers elected were: Mayor: D.
H. Wells. Aldermen: Isaac Groo, Geo. Cris-
mon, Jeter Clinton, John Sharp, A. C. Pyper.
Councilors: Brigham Young, Theo. McKean,
Albert Carrington, J. R. Winder, Henry Grow,
N. H. Felt, David McKenzie Feramorz Little,
Thos. Williams.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PLEA FOR THE WOMEN OF MASSA-
	CHUSETTS AND MOTHER EVE,
		vs. KATE BOWERS.

	All sides of questions of public interest
should be held to the light.
	Opponent says she is "greatly pained to
see Massachusetts women sinking so low as
to be willing to become prostitutes; for their
petition to the Legislature to legalize poly-
gamy simply means this."
	If it means "this" to the mind of the writer
of the article entitled "Polygamy vs. Shak-
erism." It means something very different
to the clear minded, noble and brave women
of Massachusetts.
	Kate Bowers seeks to become an angel
through crucifixion; while the women of
Massachusetts seek to pass by the angels,
and become heirs of salvation through obe-
dience to the command of God; to replenish
the earth; and through obedience to that


law of nature which says, maternity with
personal protection from all abuses, is one of
woman's most sacred and exalted rights.
	Instead of "stepping back to the time
when lust was rampant," as Kate accuses
them of doing, these women ask for room
to step forward into regions of purity and
self preservation—God help them!
	The opponent of the right of Massachu-
setts women, next offers indignity to the
woman in Eden, claiming that she led man
to sin. My client would claim that our
great maternal progenitor is entitled to rev-
erent honor for braving the peril that
brought earth's children from the dark val-
ley of ignorance and stagnation, and placed
them on the broad, progressive plain, where
they, knowing good and evil, joy and sor-
row, may become as Gods.
	Mother Eve, for taking the initiative in
this advance movement, should receive en-
comiums of praise; which should be shared
by our great paternal, who, though reluct-
antly, followed and aided in her heaven or-
dained enterprise.
	Not wishing to detain the Court, the case
is respectfully submitted.		S. M. K.


NATURAL CONDITION OF MAN.

	The natural and healthy condition of man
is one in which he works for what he re-
ceives. Those who contribute nothing to
the general stock ought to take nothing
from it. The accumulation of capital in
private hands is creating, in continually en-
larging numbers, a class of people who have
abundant means to spend on themselves,
while they have nothing to do in return. A
man makes a fortune, as it is called; he
leaves it to his children, who find themselves
to have inherited the services of an army
genii, potent as those of Aladin's lamp to
minister to their pleasures. Fools spend
their share on indulgence. Indulgence is
usually synonymous with vice; and as long
as their purses hold out they do mischief to
every one who comes near them. This kind
of thing happily does not often last long. The
money is soon gone, and there is an end of
it. But the majority have sense enough to
avoid ruining themselves by extravagance.
They live on their incomes, ladies especi-
ally, and having their time to themselves,
and being spared the necessity of exertion,
are considered exceptionally happy—yet
happy they cannot be. Satisfaction of mind
is allotted by Providence only to industry;
and not being obliged to be industrious, they
lose the capacity for it. Enjoyments pall on 
them. Having allowed the period of life
to pass unused when occupations can be
successfully learned, they are unable to take
their places afterwards on the beaten roads
of life. They stray into fancy employments;
they become dabblers in politics, dabblers in
art, dabblers in literature and science. Noth-
ing succeeds with them sufficiently to put
them on good terms with themselves, and
then men and women alike, and particularly
the better sort of them, being without
wholesome occupations, craving for some-
thing which will satisfy the demands which
their minds are making on them, they fly
to the opiates and anodynes of the quack
doctors of the spiritual world.—"James An-
thony Froude."


BRITISH ELECTIONS have been attended
with riots and mob disturbances this season,
more even than generally in former years.
Much diversity of opinion prevails, accord-
ing to late news from London. The British-
ers seem to have forgotton that "union is
power."


A New Rake.—Josh Billings thus speaks
of a new agricultural implement, to which
the attention of farmers is invited: "John
Rogers' revolving, expanding, unceremo-
nious, self-adjusting, self-controlling, self-
greasing, self-righteous hoss-rake, is now
forever offered to the generous public. The
rakes are as easy to keep in repair as a hitch-
ing post, and will rake up a paper of pins
sowed in a ten-acre field of wheat stubble.
These rakes can be used in winter for a hen-
roost, or sawed up into stove-wood for the
kitchen fire. No farmer of good moral char-
acter should be without this rake, if even
he has to steal one.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	A little boy at Green Bay played barber-
shop with his little sister, shampooing her
head with a bottle of pepper-sauce, just as
he had seen them do down town.

	When Arthur was a very small boy his
mother reprimanded him one day for some
misdemeanor. Not knowing it his father
began to talk to him on the same subject.
Looking up in his face; Arthur said, sol-
emnly, "My mother has 'tended to me."

	If a little girl cannot take her grandfather
on her lap as he takes her on his, she can get
his slippers, or put away his book, or gently
comb his thin locks; and whether she thinks
of it or not, little kindnesses, even such as
these, that come from a loving heart, are the
sunbeams that light up the world.

	An Essex lady sitting in her parlor and
engaged in the dreamy contemplation of
the mustache of the young gentleman who
was to escort her and her sister to the con-
cert was suddenly awakened by an ominous
whisper in a juvenile voice at the door:
"You've got Ann's teeth an' she wants 'em."

	A little Irish girl about six years old, liv-
ing in Massachusetts, was lately telling some
of her schoolmates—children of Protestant
parents—what great things the priest could
do. "Why" said she, "if he wishes he could
turn a man to stone!" The other children
laughed and said, "We don't believe it."
"Well," was her reply—beautiful for its sim-
plicity—,'if I were you, I wouldn't believe
it, but I've got to."

	When the Emperor of Germany was lately
on a visit to a village in a distant portion of
his dominions, he was welcomed by the
school children of the place. After the
speaker had made a speech for them, he
thanked them. Then taking an orange from
the plate, he asked: "To what kingdom does
this belong?"
	"To the vegetable kingdom, sire," replied
a little girl.
	The Emperor took a gold coin from his
pocket, and holding it up, asked, "And to
what kingdom does this belong?"
	"To the mineral kingdom, sire," replied
the child.
	"And to what kingdom do I belong, then?"
asked the Emperor.
	The little girl colored deeply, for she did
not like to say "the animal kingdom," as he
thought she would, lest his Majesty should
be offended, when a bright thought came,
and she said with radient eyes:
	"To God's kingdom, sire."
	The Emperor was deeply moved, a tear
stood in his eye, and placing his hand on
the child's head he said most devoutly:
"God grant that I may be accounted worthy
of that kingdom!"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FEBRUARY.

	What's the fun of February?
	Skies that change and winds that vary!
	Freezing flaws, flooding thaws,—
	In and out of Winter's jaws.
	Then we send our valentines
	Billet-doux and tender lines,
	Blazing hearts, winged darts;
	Cupid's king of coazing arts!
	Then each John may choose his Mary,
	Spite of skies and winds that vary,—
	That's the fun of February.
					OLIVE A. WARDSWORTH.
In St. Nicholas.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Mothers, Speak Kindly.—Children catch cross
tones quicker than parrots, and they often become
permanent habits in them. When mother sets the
example, you will scarcely hear a pleasant word
among the children in their plays with each other.
Yet the discipline of such a family is always weak
and irregular. The children expect just so much
scolding before they do anything they are bid, while
in many a home where the low, firm tone of moth-
er, or the decided look of her steady eye, is law, they
always think of obedience, either in or out of sight.
Oh, mother! it is worth a great deal to cultivate
that excellent thing in woman, a low, sweet voice.
If you are ever so much tried by the mischievous
or wilful pranks of the little one, speak low. It
will be a great help to you to even try to be patient
and cheerful, if you cannot succeed. Anger makes
you wretched, and your children also. Impatient,
angry tones never did the heart good, but plenty of
evil. You cannot have the excuse for them that
they lighten your burdens at all; they make them
only ten times heavier. For your own, as well as
your children’s sake, speak low. They will remem-
ler that tone when your head is under the turf.
So, to, will they remember a harsh and angry tone,
Which legacy will you leave to your children?
	Cream Pie.—Cover the pie-tin with a good crust,
but not too rich; then fill with sweet cream; sprinkle
generously with flour and sugar; cover with crust;
bake quick, and you have a pie fit for a king. To
be eaten when cold. 
	A Useful Soap.—The following is commended
by those who have tried it for scrubbing and cleans-
ing painted floors, washing dishes, and other house-
hold purposes:. Take two pounds of white olive
soap and shave it in thin slices; add two ouuces of
borax and two quarts of cold water; stir all together
in a stone or earthen jar, and let it set upon the
back of the stove until the mass is dissolved. A
very little heat is required, as the liquid need not
simmer.  When thoroughly mixed and cooled, it
becomes of the consistence of a thick jelly, and a
piece the size of a cubic inch will make a lather for
a gallon of  water.
	Borax for Cleansing Blankets:—The Boston
Journal of' Chemistry gives the following method
of cleansing blankets: Put two large teaspoonfuls
 of borax and a pint bowl of soft soap into a tub of
cold water.  When dissolved, put in a pair of blan-
kets, and let them remain over night. Next day
 rub and drain them out, and rinse thoroughly in two
waters, and hang them to dry. Do not wring them.
But this is not the only domestic use to which borax
may be put. Says the same journal: Borax is the
best cockroach exterminator yet discovered. This
troublesome insect has a peculiar aversion to it, and
will never return where it has once been scattered.
As the salt is perfectly harmless to human beings,
it is much to be preferred for this purpose to the
poisonous substances commonly used. Borax is
valuable for the laundry; use 1 lb. to about ten gal-
lons of boiling water, and you need only one-half
the ordinary allowance of soap. For laces, cam-
bries, etc., use an extra quantity of this powder. It
will not injure the texture of the cloth in the least.
For cleansing the hair, nothing is better than a so-
lution of borax water. Wash afterwards with pure
water if it leaves the hair too stiff. Borax dissol-
[Column 2]
ved in water is also an excellent dentifrice, or tooth
wash.
Oat meal for bone and muscle:—Liebig
has shown that oat meal is almost as nutri-
tious as the very best English beef,and that
it is richer than wheaten bread in the ele-
ments that go to form hone and muscle.
Professor Forbes of Edinburg, during some
twenty years, measured the bredth and
hight, and also tested the strength of both
the arms and loins of the students in the
University—a very numerous class, and of
various nationalities, drawn to Edinburg by
the fame of his teaching. He found that,
in height, breadth of chest and shoulders,
and strength of arms and loins, the Belgians
were, at the bottom of the list a little above
them the French very much higher the
English and highest of all, the Scotch and
Scotch-Irish, from Ulster, who, like the na-
tives of Scotland, are fed in their early years
with at least one meal a day of good milk
and good oatmeal porridge. Speaking of
oatmeal, an exchange remarks that a very
good drink is made by putting about two
spoonfuls of the meal in a tumbler of water.
The Western hunters and trappers consider
it the best of drinks, as it is at once nour-
ishing, unstimulating, and satisfying. It is
popular in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, two
and a half pounds of oatmeal being put into
a pail of moderately cool water. It is much
better than any of the ordinary mixtures of
vinegar and. molasses with water which far-
mers use in the haying or harvest field.


For the EXPONENT.
THE BALLOT AND THE BULLET.

	A lady conversing with a gentleman upon
the right of woman suffrage, was told by
him that the ballot and the bullet went to-
gether—“will you fight as well as vote?”
"Yes," Was the ready reply, “by hiring a
substitute as you did during the late war.”
Women are for peace, not war: and this is
one of the many reasons why they should
have the right of franchise. Yes, a true
woman is for peace when it can be secured
upon honorable terms; at the same time she
will fight or encourage and sustain those
whose business it is to fight, when it is nec-
essary.—That is when her rights and those
of her friends are invaded, as has been prov-
en in the history of the past; as in the
case of Joan of Arc; also Artimesia the
Queen who joined the immense invading
army of Xerxes. She was in command at
the great battle of Hellespont, on which
occasion the king, seated on a high eminence,
where he could look down upon the engage-
ment said, “See—see Artemesia the Queen!
She acts like a man, while our men act like
women!” But for all this, we are opposed
to woman's going to war when the greatest
battle is fought at home. Ask the man who
goes to the battle field, which he would con-
sider the greatest task, to face the enemy
and be shot down in defence of his country,
or to take the place of the true wife and
mother, who not only lives to mourn the
loss of friends and country, but her husband
also, and her sons. There are thousands of
women who have thus been called to mourn,
who are now asking the right of franchise.
But if such bills as the Frelinghuysen are
to be made law; to disfranchise the noble
women of our land who fill the chair of
state and the halls of Congress with their
sons, and the ranks of the battle field with
the offsprings of their own bodies, the lover
of freedom can but exclaim, mockery! No
longer call this a Republican form of Govern-
ment. Take down the standard of liberty


and cease to mock the Goddess by desecra-
ting her inalienable rights. Fold up the flag
of our beloved country that so proudly waves
over sea and land, and lay it in some sacred
sepulchre; until the mother of Washington,
Jefferson, and the mothers of the framers
of the Constitution of the United States,
shall come forth and demand of their sons
their inalienable rights, the elective Fran-
chise. 				WILLMEITH EAST.
	SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S POWER.
	Junius Henri Browne writes in the November
Galaxy:	Where is the man with parts and princi-
ples that has not been managed by a woman? What
hero of the past (the present is slow to recognize
its heroes) has not had its heroine, even though she
be not so recorded?
	Pericles was managed by Aspasia in everything
that added to the greatness and glory of Greece.
He was proud to admit his indebtedness to her.
She helped him to his pedestal, and drawing her
after him, he crowned her with laurels, and, pro-
claimed her a goddess fit for the Parthenon. He
had no fear to be thought inspired or guided by her,
for he was the lofty leader of lofty men, standing
so high that he uttered the wisdom of Olympus.
	Hyperides, the rival of Demosthenes,  was so
managed by Thyrne as to render his effort in her
behalf the crown of his eloquence. The beauty of
the woman flashed into his thought; the symmetry
of her form swept through his sentences, and she
stood acquitted by the power of her reflected loveli-
ness. Caesar and Antony knew from the first what
a siren Cleopatra was. The great Julius saw her
consummate management when she rose, like a rare
aromatic flower, from the bale the swarthy Sicilian
had brought. He felt the presence of the splendid
apparition kindling a new destiny in his veins, and
he advanced to meet it with open arms. Unfortu-
nate as her influence was in many respects, she
must have answered in some way to his noblest
nature. No woman, not even Egypt's enchanting
queen, could have retained him for years unless she
had awakened that which was best in him and most
promising for the future.
	Antony, magnificient rowdy that he was, detected
the management of Ptolemy’s daughter while she
rode up the Cydnus with silver oars to obey his
summons, as the goddess of youth and love. To
live in luxurious effeminacy with her he sank the
Spartan element that was in him and drew the Syb-
arite to the surface. How supreme must have been
the tact that could rivet to her side the sturdy sol-
dier and enthrall him with voluptuousness, while
he saw his Roman veterans disowning their allegi-
ance in favor of Octavius, and the empire he had
gained by mighty prowess and hardship crumbling
under his dazzled eyes.


﻿A POLITE AND HONORABLE WOMAN.

	“How do you get along?” said a wife to
her husband, in the midst of the panic.
“Oh, I shall weather the storm, but I wish I
had only a few hundred dollars more.”
“Don’t you wish you had married a rich
wife?” said she, in a teasing way; then
going to her room, she returned with rather
more than the amount required in United
States bonds. “Why, where in the world
did you get this?” said the husband. “Well
my dear, you went to a champagne supper
seven years ago, and on finding navigation
around the room rather difficult, deposited
hat, shoes, gloves and a large roll of bank
bills on the carpet. I put the money away
and waited three weeks for you to enquire
if I had seen it, when, finding you were
ashamed to do so, I invested it, and here
you have it.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.

	If we could but cast from ourselves our
burdens of care, realizing that with God is
perfect wisdom and perfect love; and that
He will make all things work for our best
good if we seek diligently and faithfully to
serve Him, how happy we should be! But
sometimes, when little circumstances occur
to annoy and grieve us, we somehow submit
to be tempted, and allow ourselves to be
made doleful and miserable in mind. Then
it is we realize most our mortal weaknesses.
Then it is, at times, we almost feel as though
God had forsaken us, But only think, sis-
ters, He has said, though a mother should
forget her nursing babe, yet He will not for-
get those who trust in Him. Ought we not,
as Saints, even in times of trial and suffer-
ing, to look unto Him with faith, believing
that he is able to deliver us out of all scenes
of trouble; and that He will do so if we
only strive with our might to keep the com-
mandments which He has given us? I
think we should feel thus. And if we have
not received a perfect testimony of His
power and loving kindness for ourselves, we
can fast and pray, in a humble and right
spirit, until we do receive it. And that will
make us satisfied under all circumstances.
For we then feel that God is allwise and
powerful, and that we are in his care. I
know that the more united we can be in our
faith and in our works, the more good we
can accomplish, and the happier we shall
be. It is my daily prayer that we may all
live so that the Holy Ghost, the Comforter,
may delight to dwell with us. Let us learn
to be wise, my sisters, and in all our
thoughts and words, cultivate the spirit of
truth and purity; then all our works will be
acceptable unto our eternal Father.
	S. L. City.			EVA WALSTRUM.

	HARRISVILLE, Weber Co., Jan. 18th.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As an invitation has been extended to all
who wish to correspond with the EXPONENT,
and as I feel it a great privilege which I en-
joy in connection with many others, I wish
to avail myself of it.
	In perusing your paper, I find many sub-
jects of interest, and note among others, the
all important subject of Woman Suffrage,
which at present is occupying so great a
share of attention from Eastern ladies. I
say, God bless them, and continue to inspire
them to go on in their laudable pursuits, un-
til oppression of every kind shall cease!
	I hope soon to see a more general waking
up among our own ladies, that we may no-
tice  “the signs of the times;” and instead
of reading the trashy novels of the day, be
found reading our own good EXPONENT, ob-
serving its wise hints, and learning to write
intelligently for it. Thus becoming better
qualified to fill the every day duties of life,
and also duties of a more public nature to
which we may be called. If some think
ours a dull paper, I cannot favor their judg-
ment: I think all can learn something to
their benefit from reading it. I hail it with
pleasure and rejoice in the day I live; and
I pray my Father in Heaven to bless the
Editor and all who labor to bring to light
precious truths.
	Yours in the bonds of peace,	E. S.

			GOSHEN ,Utah, Jan. 13th. 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	I desire to mingle my voice with those of
my sisters in bearing testimony to the truth.
	I have been a member of this church for
twenty-five years; am one of the number of
which the prophet said, “There shall be two

[Column 2]
in a bed, the one shall be taken and the
other left.” Could I have been taken from
a good husband for any thing else than for
the sake of the Gospel? No indeed! But
I know this to be the work of God, and I
pray that I may ever be obedient to His
voice.
	It is a day of testing. And when I see so
many people regardless of those things
which it has been prophesied should come
to pass in the last days, and which are so
rapidly being fulfilled day by day, I wonder.
Do fathers and mothers, who are neglecting
to teach their children to understand and
walk in the ways of truth, realize the worth
and importance of these things? 	When
they use harsh and unbecoming language to
their little ones, do they count the cost, or
weigh the probable effects?	O! my bro-
thers and sisters, let us be wise in time, and
not be found sleeping with no oil in our
vessels.
	We have a good Relief Society here, in
which I am a teacher. I think we should
all be teachers and learners of the ways of
the Lord, and doers of his work.
					SARAH ROBERTS.


A POET SURPRISED.

	A correspondent thus tells a New York
paper how the Poet Laureate was recently
caught "in the suds" by Queen Victoria:

	"The Queen once sent him word that she
would honor him with a visit on the follow-
ing day. The announcement was received
with full royal welcome from the poet and his
household, which, be it said in all respect has,
with all the attractions, some of the disad-
vantages of poetical atmosphere. Order
does not there reign supreme in outward
things. The house was, however, put under
arms to receive the royal visitor; TENNYSON
arrayed himself in solemn dress-coat; Mrs.
TENNYSON wore an appropriate toilet; the
younger TENNYSONS were snatched from
mud-pies, washed and dressed, and kept in
bondage to the best clothes for the whole
afternoon, while a delicate repast of straw-
berries and cream and flowers was prepared
in an arbor out of doors. But the day
passed, and the next, and the next, and no
majesty appeared. The household drew a
sigh of regret—and lapsed into slippers and
mud-pies once more. But lo! one morning
as the children were at their favorite pas-
time in the garden, and the poet meditating
in his dressing-gown, and Mrs. TENNYSON
on domestic cares intent, a horseman dashed
up to the gate, and shouted ‘The Queen!’
and before TENNYSON could don his coat or
warn his wife, the royal carriage drew up
before the house. With the instinct of a
true gentleman, he went forward to greet his
sovereign, called his family to him, and led
her majesty into the house. Then there
was an awful pause. Suddenly the poet
raised his head and looking at the Queen,
exclaimed, ‘Oh, woe is me! For five days I
waited,ready in suitable attire,to receive my
Queen. My wife was ready, and my chil-
dren were washed and pictures to behold,
and her majesty came not; and now she has
come, and found us in what a plight!’ the
poet groaned. The Queen broke into a
merry laugh, and the ice thus broken so
gracefully and wittily did not form again
during the visit.”


Whittier, Bryant, Lowell, Longfellow, Bret
Harte and Bayard Taylor are the best paid poets,
and receive from $50 to $100 for almost anything
in verse that they write.


EX-MAYOR HALL'S DAUGHTERS.

	The Home Journal says ex-Mayor Hall
has been blessed with five daughters and
one son, and is having each of his children
educated in some special pursuit, that they
may thus be guarded against the vicissi-
tudes of fortune. His son supplements
school duties with amusement at the print-
ing press, intending to learn the art of print-
ing practically, then reporting and journal-
ism. One of the daughters is a designer
and an etcher, having learned all the details
of wood engraving at the Cooper Institute.
Her designs for books and for some of Frank
Leslie's publications have attracted much
attention. Another daughter is a writer of
children's books, as well as an accomplished
pianist. A third is receiving special train-
ing for the lyric stage, possessing a full, round
and sweet chest voice. Another is already
distinguished as a soubrette and character
actress in private circles, while the fifth is
perfecting herself as a modeste and milliner.
These respective pursuits will perhaps
never be utilized while Mr. Hall enjoys so
large and lucrative a practice as at present,
but it must be a comfort to him and his
family to know that if ever occasion arises
there are occupations open to the daughters
beyond the usually forced and precarious
ones of governesses, companions, etc., etc.


LEARN TO KEEP SILENCE.

	Good friends, it is a great and worthy
thing to know when to keep your mouth
shut! Some people live to be 60 years with-
out learning that. Indeed, the older they
grow the wider their mouths open. Carlyle
somewhere says that what people have need
to learn is the art of silence. A man or
woman who is a great gabbler at 45 is a hor-
rid creature: whether the propensity is
hereditary or acquired, it is simply awful.
This age shows an unusual development of
tongue. There are two things this genera-
tion needs to learn—when to say nothing;
and, when they say anything, to say it well.


THE SEX.

	JULIA GARETSON is taking the lead among
the Grange orators, and is said to be very
popular.

	JENNE COLLINS provided a Christmas
dinner for a large number of girls at Boffin's
Bower, Boston.

	MISS GIFFORD, formerly of Syracuse, N.
Y., is studying art in Florence, and is en-
gaged on a bust of Rev. Samuel J. May.

	REV. PHOEBE A. Hanaford, the pastor of
the Universalist Church at New Haven, ac-
cepts her call to Jersey City, but she will
not leave her present church, over which
she has been settled three years, until
April. 

	FOUR WOMEN in France have received
decorations: viz. Madame Dunbar, Superior
of a Convent at Nancy; Rosa Bonheur,
Lady Pigot and Mlle. Berthe Rocher of
Havre, who have lately founded a new
hospital.

	TWO OF the most successful and best paid
editors in New York are women––Miss
Mary L. Booth, of the "Bazar," who re-
ceives $4000 a year, and Mrs. Mary E. Dodge,
of the "Hearth and Home," who has a sal-
ary of $3000. They are both very indus-
trious and capable.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
							Millard County.
					,,	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
					,,	Belinda M. Pratt,	,,
				Miss Mary Callister,		,,
							Beaver County.
				Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
							Iron County.
					,,	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
				Miss Josephine Smith,
					,,	Mrs. Ellen Lunt, Cedar City.
					,,	Mary Ann Lunt, Cedar City. 
							Kane County
				Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra, 
							Washington County.
					,,	Caroline Jackson, St. George.
					,,	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.
				Mrs. Mary Confield, Hamlin’s Fort.


﻿AGENTS.
Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
  ,,	Margt. P. Young,	,,	Amanda Kimball
  ,,	Lily Staines,		,,	Elizabeth Davis,
  ,,	Sarah Smith,		,,	Hampton, 16th
  ,,	Mary J. Thomson,			Ward,
  ,,	Margaret Steel,	,,	Sarah E. Smith,
		     Miss Sarah E. Russell.

Mrs. Laura Miner,		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
  ,,	A. B. Smith,		Miss Mary E. Cook.
Weber Connty,
  ,,	A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
			Oneida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	  ,,	Mary Rich, Paris.
			     Rich County
	  ,,	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
	  ,,	Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
			     Cache County.
	  ,,	M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	  ,,	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
	  ,,	H. A. Shaw, Hyrum.
	  ,,	Maria Parkinson, Wellsville.
			Box Elder County.	  ,,	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			     Davis County.
	  ,,	Mary Clark, Farmington,
	  ,,	Aurelia Rogers,	"
	  ,,	Margaret Randell, Centreville,
	  ,,	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	  ,,	Susan Grant,		     ,,
	  ,,	Sylvia Clark,		     ,,
			Salt Lake County.
	  ,,	— Higgins, West Jordan,
	  ,,	Barbara Moses, Big Cottonwood.
			     Tooele County.
Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
Mrs. E. Clegg,			,,	,,
Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
			      Utah County.
	  ,,	–––– Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	  ,,	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	  ,,	–––– Harrison,		,,
	  ,,	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
	  ,,	Rebecca Standering, Lehi.
			      Juab County.
	  ,,	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
	  ,,	Ann Pitchforth,		,,
	  ,,	Martha J. Coray, Mona,
	  ,,	Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
			Sanpete County.
.	  ,,	M. A. P. Hyde, Spring City. 
	  ,,	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim, 
	  ,,	Helena Madison, Gunnison. 
Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim. 
Mrs. Mary Thorpe,


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	It is estimated that 6,000 of the 8,900 jewelers
in Newark, N. J., are now idle.
	A bar of gold worth seventy thousand dollars is
a curiosity of the day in San Francisco
	There is a great revival among the Shakanese
Indians, 164 of whom have been baptized.
	There has recently been an increase in the de-
posits of the Boston banks of over $1,000,000.
	A very large number of American sewing ma-
chines have been sold in Vienna which were never
made here.
	Fifty dollars have been voted in Waterbury,
Conn., to feed the sparrows through the winter and
build them houses.
	Count Von Moltke, the leader of the German ar-
mies recently celebrated his seventy-fourth birth-
day. He is well, strong and active.
	According to Hudson's "Journalism in America"
the United States has 5871 newspapers and period-
icals, while the rest of the world has but 7642.
	The total attendance at the Vienna Exposition
foots up, according to official count, 5,340,073, of
which 1,603,573 belonged to the noble army of
dead-heads.
	The Union Pacific Railroad Company sold during
the month of October, 1873; 19,351.82 acres of
land, at an average price of $5.68 per acre, amount-
ing to $109,640.86. Sales averaged 134.39 acres to
each purchaser. Total sales to Nov. 1st, 1873; 819
100.55 acres, at an average price of $4,52 per acre,
amounting to $3,705,201.49.
	The Southern Cultivator tells of a great grape
vine as follows—“The Lord Raleigh vine, on Roan-
oke Island, N.C., was 3 inches in diameter in 1610,
when its colony landed there—the first in North
America. It now covers 1 1/2 acres, and last year
yielded 46 barrels of wine, 1,840 gallons, at $2 per
gallon, $3,680. To European or Northern visitors
this statement would be fabulous, but it can be
seen any year; and in Terrell Co., N. C., there is
one which is a great deal more productive—this
one last year produced 63 barrels, 2,520, gallons, at
$2 per gallon $5,040.


﻿THE WOMEN of Ohio have entered a cru-
sade against whiskey. May their heroic ef-
forts meet with deserved success. A late
telegram from Cincinnati anounces the fol-
lowing:—The excitement of the woman's
whiskey war is unabated. Throughout the
State, in the most prominent of interior
towns, prayer meetings are organized in bar
rooms or on the side-walks, and patrols are
kept through all kinds of weather. The la-
dies of Greenfield, Highland county, have
inaugurated evening visits to saloons, at any
hour from six to ten o'clock. The result is
to empty each saloon by the rear door as the
women enter by the front. At New Hol-
land, Pickaway county, twenty-five ladies
have volunteered for the crusade. They
visit every shop daily. At Washington,
Fayette county, where the women initiated
the movement, the liquor traffic has been
entirely stopped. Charley Beck, whose sa-
loon is outside of the corporate limits, has
been visited by ladies every day for nearly
two weeks. He is a jolly German and
treats the ladies kindly, but refuses to accede
to their propositions. The entire country is
being scoured for signatures to the total ab-
stinence pledge. At Gallipot, Gallia county,
the ladies' brigade of active workers num-
bers ninty-one. They work in three divi-
sions, but have made little headway with
saloon keepers, some of whom order them
off their premises and they enter and put
out the lights. In most counties the success
is marked.


﻿CHARLOTTE GUILLARD was the first no-
table woman printer. She was in business
for sixty years in Paris from 1506 to 1567,
and was celebrated for the correctness of
her books. Women were employed and
commended as compositors in Italy as early
as 1481.


A LADY reporter on a news journal, asked
her husband, who had just come in from the
street, to give her an item of “local inter-
est.” He laconically complied with the re-
quest, by replying that he had torn his panta-
loons. That’s all the feeling some men
have.


It would sometimes seem as if mother-
hood were a lovely artifice of the great
Father, to wean the heart from selfishness
by a peaceful and gradual process. The
babe is self in another form. It is so inter-
woven and identified with the mother’s life,
that she passes by, almost insensible grada-
tions from herself to it; and day by day the
instinctive love of self wanes as the child-
love waxes, filling the heart with a thou-
sand new springs of tenderness.—Harriet
Beecher Stowe.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
		ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
    Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.
MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m.
MRS. CARPENTER,
		Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


Woman's Exponent.

