Vol. 2.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, April 1, 1874.		No. 21.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THERE ARE many criminals who are both
educated and intelligent; yet it is estimated
that ten to one of the crimes committed
throughout the country, are done by the
illiterate and ignorant.
	THE KANSAS Legislature has passed the
joint resolution to have the question of
woman suffrage decided by a vote of the
people. Will the men alone conclude the
decision of the question after all, or will the
women be considered as a portion of the
people?


THIS YEAR'S EMIGRATION.

	As many of our readers may be interested
in the forthcoming emigration, we insert
the following items, communicated to the
S. L. Herald by Mr. W. C. Staines, Church
emigration agent:
	The fare from New York to Ogden will be
as follows: For passengers 12 years old and
upwards, $51.00 with 100 lbs. luggage free;
children 5 to 12 years, $25.50 and 50 lbs. lug-
gage free; under 5 years, without luggage,
free. Extra luggage must be paid for at the
rate of $8 per 100 lbs. Fare from Omaha
$35.00: extra luggage, $5.50 per 100 lbs.
  In order to secure passage, you will have
to pay in advance.
	Send your money to procure your ticket
for passage and extra luggage, by post office
order, or draft on New York, payable to
Wm. C. Staines, P. O. box 3957, and your
tickets will be forwarded in time, with in-
structions when and where to join the com-
pany. You must be very particular about
stating the exact weight of your luggage,
as all over the amount not entered on your
ticket will be charged for by the railroad
company at much highter rates.
	You can go at any time after you receive
your tickets.
	It will take nine days to go from New
York to Salt Lake City, Utah, including
stoppages, and you must have means to pur-
chase provisions for that time.
	I have no funds in my hands to assist any
one. 
	All funds raised in Utah for emigration
purposes are forwarded to England to be
used there.


[Column 1]
		  ﻿FLORAL HINTS.

	Our friends who are interested in the de-
lightful pursuit of raising flowers, will find
pleasurable, and doubtless, profitable read-
ing in the selections we propose to offer
from time to time, under the above head.
We also respectfully solicit contributions
from home writers who are capable of giv-
ing information on this subject, suitable to
the practice of floriculture in Utah.
	Sweet-peas should be put into the ground
early, as they will bear the wind and weath-
er, Make a circle round a pole, or some ob-
ject to which they may cling as they rise;
put the peas into the earth an inch deep,
having previously soaked them well. Add
an outer circle every month, so that a con-
tinual bloom may appear. The circle first
sown will ripen and pod for seed in the cen-
tre, while the outer vines will continue

[Column 2]
flowering until late in autumn. When you
have gathered a sufficient number of ripe
pods, cut away all the pods which may
afterward form.
"Every Lady her own Flower Gardener."
	House plants ought to be gently stimulta-
ted once or twice a week. Rain water, so re-
freshing to summer flowers, always contains
ammonia, which also a bounds in all liquid
manures. Take an ounce of pulverized
ammonia, dissolved in one gallon of wa-
ter; it will make spring water even
more stimulating to young plants than rain
water. Keep the soil in the flower pots
loose.––"Field and Factory.
	If our readers knew how easily the White
Water Lily (Nymphia Odorate) could be
cultivated, we believe that very many of
them would be quite as proud of their lily
gardens as of any other portion of their
premises. The roots having been pro-
cured in the fall were kept damp during the
ensuing winter, in flower pots. In the
spring a tub was made by sawing a substan-
tial barrel into, and this, duly painted green,
was set on brick, put in the garden, and one-
third filled with mixture of garden soil,
sand and well rotted manure, The roots
were set in this mixture, water was added
in small quantities, and at intervals of a day
or two, and so gently as not to disturb the
earth, until the tub was filled. Very soon
the handsome round leaves, four or five
inches in diameter, made their appearance
and filled the tub. The loss of water by
evaporation was made good from time to
time, and ere long the blossoms appeared
and delighted every one with their beauty.
	When cold weather came the water was
allowed to dry off almost entirely, and when
it was thus nearly gone, the tub with its
contents, was placed in the cellar and water-
ed at long intervals through the winter. In
the spring the roots were separated, and
about half the increase returned to the same
tub, in a fresh mixture of earth, and they
are now brought out earlier than before,
about April 1st and blossom yet more pro-
fusely. The pure white flowers were as
perfect as the camelia, and delightfully fra-
grant, closing in the night and re-opening
in the morning as is the wont of Water
Lilies. The blossoms were about two inches
in diameter, not quite so large as some of
the specimens in the pond whence these
roots were first taken, but not less beautiful
nor less fragrant.—“Flower Garden.”


[Column 1]
		FACTS AND FIGURES.
	It is estimated that the population of New
Orleans is 239,985.
	Miss Hannah Drury has bought a 2220 acre
plantation in North Carolina.
	A 299-year old newspaper of Stockholm,
Sweden, circulates 15,000 copies daily.
	Many negroes who left Georgia for Missis-
sippi are returning to their old homes.
	"John Smith" of Chicago has sent $600
to the United States Treasurer's Conscience
Fund.
	According to an Ohio mathematician, one
man dies from the use of alcohol every sev-
en minutes.
[Column 2]
	A club of farmers in Chesterfield, Ill., takes
$100 worth of magazines and newspapers
annually.
	A New Jersey man claims a clear profit
on seventy chickens and nineteen ducks,
last year, of $77.
	Five districts in Chester County, Pennsyl-
vania, have elected women to the office of
school directors.
	A tract of land in Missouri containing 40,
000 acres has been bought for a party of
French emigrants.
	There is trouble in the Kansas Agricul-
tural College. Three professors have been
retired by the Board of Regents. The stu-
dents are indignant.
	Minnesota is losing the Scandinavian em-
migration, which is drifting to Kansas, Ne-
braska and Colorado.
	President Grant recommends liberal ap-
propriations by congress of the Philadelphia
Centennial Exposition.
	Upward of 2,500 men have deserted from
the army while stationed in the Pacific States
and Territories since 1871.
	A Mississippi legislator introduced a bill
prohibiting the sale of liquor within five
miles of the State University.
	Mr. Ruskin advocates the purchase by the
National Gallery of a splendid Madonna by
Raphael. The cost will be £40,000.
	Mrs. Sarah E. Beard, Fayetteville, N. Y.,
has given $5000 to Hamilton College as a
fund for the aid of needy students.
	The proudest man in the United States is
in Montgomery, Pa. He carried off 42 pre-
miums at the Doylston Poultry Show.
	Yale College is to have a new chapel, a
plain, but substantial stone structure, seat-
ing 1,200 persons, and costing $120,000.
	A movement to celebrate the Centennial
by a grand exposition in Washington, to be
confined to the United States, is talked of.
	Mr. Gerrett Smith has given, free of con-
ditions, the sum of $10,000 for the benefit of
Hamilton College, of which he is a graduate.
	The Queen, at the recommendation of
Gladstone, has granted a pension of $1,000
per annum to the children of Dr. Living-
stone.
	The statue of Mr. Seward will be shipped
to New York in the spring of 1875. It will
cost $25,000 nearly all of which has been
subscribed.
	Some of the New Hampshire Patrons of
Husbandry are buying flour at $8.25 per bbl.
by the car-load, whereas they had to pay $11
per bbl. for the same article at retail.
	Robert W. Scott of Kentucky states that
he has sold the wool of Angora goats through
the agency of several New York commission
merchants at from 60c. to $1.25 per pound.
	At a recent exhibition in Zanesville, Ohio,
a wedding-dress worn in 1788 was exhibited.
The waist was about two inches long, but
what astonished the ladies most was that
the dress contained only two and a half
yards of silk.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WHICH?

	The following beautiful poem is intended for the fam-
ily circle. It is founded upon an incident where a rich
neighbor offered to make a poor family comfortable, and
provide for the child, if one of seven were given to him.
Some one who has doubtless felt the pangs of poverty,
and yet been a parent, with all the accompanying deep
and holy feelings, has clothed it in poetical attire, and
breathed into it a spirit of love, devotion and faith that
will find a holy response in the breast of every father
and mother.

		"Which shall it be; Which shall it be?"
		I looked at John—John looked at me:
		(Dear patient John, who loves me yet,
		As well as though my locks were jet.)
		And when I found that I must speak,
		My voice seemed strangely low and weak;
		"Tell me again what Robert said!"
		And then I listening bent my head.
		"This is his letter:
							"I will give
		A house and land while you shall live.
		If, in return, from out of your seven,
		One child to me for aye is given."
		I looked at John's old garments worn,
		I thought of all that John had borne;
		Of poverty, and work, and care,
		Which I, though willing, could not share;
		I thought of seven mouths to feed,
		Of seven little children's need,
		And then of this.
						"Come, John," said I,
		"We'll choose among them as they lie
		Asleep;" so walking hand in hand,
		Dear John and I surveyed our band.
		First to the cradle lightly stepped,
		Where Lillian the baby slept;
		Her bright locks lay in pallid light,
		A glory 'gainst the pillow white;
		Softly the father stooped to lay
		His rough hand down in loving way,
		When dream or whisper made her stir,
		And huskily he said, "Not her!"
		We stooped beside the trundle-bed,
		And one long ray of lamplight shed
		Athwart the boyish faces there,
		In sleep so pitiful and fair;
		I saw on Jamie's rough, red cheek,
		A tear undried. Ere John could speak,
		"He's but a baby too," said I,
		And kissed him as we hurried by.
		Pale, patient Robbie's angel face,
		Still in his sleep bore suffering's trace,
		"Not for a thousand crowns, not him,"
		He whispered, while our eyes were dim.
		Poor Dick! bad Dick! our wayward son,
		Turbulent, restless, idle one—
		Could he be spared? "Nay, he who gave,
		Bade us befriend him to the grave;
		Only a mother's heart could be
		Patient enough for such as he,
		And so," said John, "I would not dare
		To send him from her bed-side prayer."
		Then stole we softly up above,
		And knelt by Mary, child of love.
		"Perhaps for her 'twould better be,"
		I said to John. Quite silently
		He lifted up a curl that lay
		Across her cheek in willful way,
		And shook his head. "Nay love, not thee."
		The while my heart beat audibly.
		Then Bess, our second daughter bright,
		Whose dimpled fingers, small and white,
		Whose sylph like form and seraph grace,
		But matched the beauty of her face;
		And these th'external counter-part
		of her gay, guileless, generous heart;
		Coquettish, even in her plays—
		So born, with winsome, coaxing ways:
		"It would not do for her," John said,
		"Temptations wily path to tread."
		Only one more, our eldest lad,
		Trusty and truthful, good and glad—
		So like his father. "No, John, no—
		I cannot, will not let him go!"
		And so we wrote in courteous way,
		WE COULD NOT drive one child away.
		And afterward toil lighter seemed,
		Thinking of that of which we dreamed;
		Happy in truth that not one face
		We missed from its accustomed place;
		Thankful to work for all the seven,
		Trusting the rest to One in Heaven!


The sufferings from the famine in India
continue to increase. The Government will
be obliged to maintain 3,000,000 persons
for three months. The expenditure for the
sufferers amount, so far, to $7,500,000.


The following circular has been handed
to us for publication:
	INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.

		904 WALNUT STREET.

Appeal of the Executive Committee of the Woman's
  Auxiliary Centennial Commission to the Women of
			the United States.
		PHILADELPHIA, July 4th, 1873.
	The International Exhibition of 1876 is
designed to commemorate our National In-
dependence.
	While it seems natural that the spot where
the nation drew its first breath, should be
the point selected by Congress for the proper
celebration of the One Hundredth Anniver-
sary of its existence, it seems also fitting
that Philadelphia should take the initiative
in organizing a systematic plan of work.
	Having this plan in view, the Citizens'
Centennial Finance Committee appointed in
February last, an Executive Committee of
thirteen women—with power to add to their
number if necessary. Their appointment
was confirmed by the Executive Committee
of the Centennial Commission, and their
work approved by the Commission itself,
during its session in this city in May last,
when the formation of similar organizations
throughout the Union was recommended.
	The Woman's Executive Committee
selected a woman in each ward in Philadel-
phia, to act as Chairman of a Committee of
not more than thirty-six women, whose
duty it is to arouse the interest of all in the
success of the Exhibition. The shares are
Ten Dollars each, payable in easy instal-
ments.
	We, members of the Woman's Executive
Committee whose names are hereto append-
ed, now seek the co-operation of the Women
of America, that similar organizations may
be begun, improved upon, and carried to
perfection, in every Village, Township, City
and County in all the States and Territories
of the Union. And in asking this aid and
this interest, we appeal to our sisters
throughout the United States, first on the
ground of patriotism.
	Every good woman desires that her Coun-
try should hold a prominent place in the
family of Nations. Although it may be
that in many respects we are faulty as a
Nation, it is only by contact with others
that we can hope to have our faults correct-
ed. This Exhibition will bring to our
shores, men and women, from all countries,
who, while they may point to our defects,
will carry away with them a proper regard
for what is great and good among us, and
thus promote a feeling of respect for us in
lands where Americans are now, too often
regarded as semi-barbarians.
	Conscious as we may be, that American
women enjoy greater privileges than are ac-
corded to women in any other land, let us
enter on our work, carrying with us the
thought of our blessings. Let us feel as if
it is the birthday of our mother that we are
about to celebrate—a mother with whom
some of us cannot hope to live long. Or,
our land is yet so young, we may almost
imagine that our son will reach his majority
in 1876, and we must help to light the bon-
fires in his honor.
	We would also urge upon the serious con-
sideration of our women, the great advan-
tages to be derived for our sex through this
Exhibition. Through it, women will be
found to possess business qualifications
which may be usefully called forth; the
value of their labour will be raised, and
many who are now struggling for their daily
bread, may be enabled to obtain for them-
selves remunerative positions, by which
they may earn a comfortable livelihood.
[Column 2]
	Every subscription that is gathered will be
but another stone added to the building of
the pedestal on which the American Woman
is destined, through her work, to stand; and
in helping ourselves, we shall help the
women in other lands, where now it is not
uncommon to see a woman and a cow har-
nessed together to a plough and a man
driving them.
	Actuated, then, by our love for our land,
and our ambition for our sex, we go forth
doubly armed to make the exhibition of '76
a grand success. Some may say that the
exhibition will merely affect the interests of
Philadelphia, but this is not so. Just as the
Declaration of Independence brought free-
dom to all the States, so will this Exhibition
bring high consideration for each State in
the Union. Each signer of that precious
document did not insist upon returning to
his own State, there to affix his signature.
It was given here for the welfare of all; and
here shall the products of each State be
brought gladly by her children; while here
for the honour of all shall these commem-
orative ceremonies be held.
	It is true we all have a certain sort of State
pride, which is natural and commendable.
Massachusetts is deaf to the noise of her
shuttles and looms, or finds sweet music in
them. Pennsylvania thinks the soot of her
mines becoming to the complexion of her
people. South Carolina is proud of her
many cotton fields, and Louisiana finds noth-
ing so sweet as her sugar-cane. The West
rejoices, first, in her prairies, and then in the
iron belts which girdle them. But what
citizen from any State is insensible to a feel-
ing of pride on beholding the Capitol at
Washington? And yet the immediate ad-
vantages derived from that Capitol belong
only to those who live in the District of Col-
umbia.
	Which of us can see the harbor of New
York and not feel glad that it is ours, while
the proud pleasure of actually possessing it
belongs only to the citizens of New York.
	Whatever motives actuate us, let us work
together with a will. To you, Chairmen of
State Committees, who will fan our spark
into a flame, we look for help. To you and
to your aids will belong the honour of what-
ever is done. We are ready to aid you in
this, our National Work. When you are
organizing your Committees, if any word of
ours will help or cheer, we stand ready to
go to you at your call. We are one with
you. It may not fall to the lot of all of us
to see that one hundredth anniversary of our
National Independence, but let us pray God
not only for a blessing on our work, but that
those of us who remain on that day, may
have the joy of feeling that throughout these
years all has gone pleasantly in our inter-
course with each other, and that in '76 we
shall have earned the reward which comes
from the faithful performance of any duty,
while at the same time we will have proved
ourselves able coadjutors in this great and
important mission.
	Mrs. E. D. Gillespie, President, 250 S.
21st Street; Mrs. John Sanders, Vice-Presi-
dent, 410 South 15th St.; Mrs. J. Edgar
Thompson, Treasurer, 18th & Spruce Sts.;
Mrs. Aubrey H. Smith, Secretary, 1516 Pine
Street; Miss McHenry, 1902 Chestnut St.;
Mrs. Charles J. Stille, 1505 Walnut Street;
Miss Elizabeth Gratz, 1409 Locust Street;
Mrs, John W. Forney, 618 S. Washington
Square; Mrs. Emily R. Buckman, 567 North
16th. Street; Mrs. Richard P. White, 2113
Pine Street; Mrs. Henry Cohen, 1828 S.
Rittenhouse Square; Mrs. Matthew Simp-
son, 1807 Mount Vernon St.; Mrs. A. H.
Franciscus, 1529 Arch Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿LABOR IN LITERATURE.

	Verses to which a journalist will cheerfully al-
low space in his daily local paper, may be dashed off
by many of the “small harpers with their glees,”
as a pleasant way of killing an idle hour. But
Tennyson was ten years writing “In Memoriam.”
Thomas Grey was, in his day, one of the finest
scholars in Great Britain, and perhaps unsurpassed
in Europe. Very brief is the poem to which he
mainly owes his celebrity, and which will keep his
memory green and fragrant as long as the English
language lasts. It may be read through in five
minutes, but Grey was seven years in elaborating
it. Upon his death bed Daniel Webster called for
this poem. The gallant Wolfe, when, under cover
of night, transporting his brave men to the mem-
orable heights of Abraham, broke the solemn silence
which pervaded the boats, by repeating stanzas of
the “Elegy in a Country Churchyard,” and finished
with the exclamation, “Gentlemen, I would prefer
being the author of that poem, to the glory of beat-
ing the French to-morrow.” Perhaps these words
were prompted to the devoted soldier by the invol-
untary reflection which Rufus Choate expressed,
when he said, “The only immortality is in a book.”
But Grey’s is no solitary case of scrupulousness in
literary work. At the town of Ferrara is still
treasured the ancient scrap of paper upon which
Ariosto wrote one of his stanzas—the description
of a tempest—in sixteen different ways before be-
coming satisfied with it. That stanza is one of the
most celebrated among Ariosto’s remains.
	Petrarch surpassed this. One of his verses or
stanzas he re-wrote six-and-forty times; and Tas-
so’s manuscripts so abound in alterations, that they
are illegible to other people’s eyes. Montesquieu
once remarked to a friend, concerning a particular
part of his writings: “You will read it in a few
hours, but I assure you that it has cost me so much
labor that it has whitened my hair.” Newton,
despite his great intellect and huge stores of learn-
ing, found within himself patience to write his
“Chronology” sixteen times over. Gibbon wrote
out his “Autobiography” nine times, and gave
twenty years’ toil to his “Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire,” When the late Dr. Buckland
was preparing his “Bridgewater Treatise upon Ge-
ology and Mineralogy,” he made such numerous and
frequent changes in the composition, that his wife
copied part of it for him nineteen times, and pen-
ned four separate copies of the whole work. It
was a favorite theory with Goethe, and on this point
the meditative Coleridge agreed with the many-sid-
ed German, that power to conjure up lively senti-
ments is in no measure lost as men grow in years;
whereas ability to utter them forcibly is vastly in-
creased by practice. In harmony with this opinion
was his course in regard to Faust, which he took in
hand at the age of twenty, and completed in the
full maturity of three score years and ten.—“Mary
Granger in the Old Curiosity Shop.”


﻿Queen Victoria Witty.—An amusing but
amiable witticism is attributed to the Queen,
which, in its way, is almost good enough to
have been uttered by one of those recog-
nized humorists who have occasionally adorn-
ed thrones. Some one at court had spoken
disparagingly (of course) of the hostile criti-
cisms pronounced by Sir Charles Dilke on
the civil list. “It is strange,” Queen Vic-
toria is said to have replied, “for I remem-
ber having him as a boy on my knee and
stroking his hair. * * * * * * * I
suppose," added her Majesty, after a mo-
ment’s pause, “I must have stroked it the
wrong way.”


The Toronto Globe claims that Canada,
with a population about equal to New Eng-
land, has in its domain 864,635 children an-
nually, while New England has but 17,561.


[Column 1]
			DIVERSIONS.
	THE man question.—What is he worth?
	WHY is a new-born baby like a gale of
wind? Because it begins with a squall.
	WHAT is that which goes from New York
to Albany every day and yet never stirs?—
The turnpike.
	WHAT is the difference between a jewel-
ler and a jailer? One sells watches and the
other watches cells.
	A LITTLE boy asked a lady who made her
teeth."My Creator," she replied. "Well,"
said the youngster, "Dr. —— made my ma's,
and they beat your'n clean out o' sight."
	A LADY having brought a suit to recover
a chignon from a hair-dresser with whom
she had left it for repair, her little boy
wanted to know "if that chignon was what
is called 'hair-at-law?'"
	MARYLAND girls wont marry in the full of
the moon, believing they would have ill-
luck through life, but a Massachusetts girl
wouldn't let forty full moons stop her ten
seconds.
	A YOUNG dandy, who sported an enor-
mous mustache, asked a lady what she
thought of his looks? "Why," said she
"you look as if you had swallowed a pony,
and left the tail sticking out of your
mouth."
	AT a collection recently made at a charity
fair, a lady passed the plate to a very wealthy
man who was well known for his stinginess.
"I have nothing," was his curt reply. "Then
take something, sir," she answered, "You
know I am begging for the poor."
	"Do you enjoy going to church now?,,
asked a lady of Mrs. Partington. "La, me,
I do," replied Mrs. P. Nothing does me so
much good as to get up early on Sunday
morning and go to church, and hear a popu-
lous minister dispense with the gospel."
	"I DON'T like these shoes," said a lady
customer, "because the soles are too thick."
"Is that the only objection?" blandly asked
the salesman. "Yes," was the reply.
"Then, madam, if you take the shoes, I can
assure you that the objection will gradually
wear away."
	THE first Marquis of Huntley, on his first
arrival at court, forgot the usual tribute of
obeisance, and was asked why he did not
bow? He begged his Majesty's pardon, and
excused his want of respect, by saying, he
was just come from a place where everybody
bowed to him.
	"A MEMBER of our Legislature," says an
Ohio paper, "who was on a dead-head excur-
sion out on the plains, lost his pass, and had
to walk seventy miles before he could find a
man who had sufficient confidence in his ap-
pearance to lend him money to telegraph
home to his wife to sell the cooking-stove
and remit him the proceeds at once."
	A SUBURBAN minister applied to a ticket
agent on one of the railroads for a "clergy-
man's ticket," and on the official expressing
a doubt  to his clerical character, exclaim-
ed, "If you don't believe I'm a clergyman,
I'll read you one of my sermons!" The
agent gave him a ticket without insisting
upon the proof.
	SMART reply.—A humorous fellow being
subpoenaed as a witness on a trial for an as-
sault, one of the counsel, who had been no-
torious for brow-beating witnesses, asked
him what distance he was from the parties
when the assault happened; he answered,
"Just four feet five inches and a half."—
[Column 2]
"How came you to be so very exact, fellow?"
said the counsel. "Because I expected some
fool or other would ask me," said he, "so I
measured it."
	A WASHINGTON paper tells this good
story about Hon. S. S. Cox, the irrepressible
Congressman from New York City. The
other day Cox was unusually active, spurty
and irrepressible in the House. He was
continually at the front, "catching on the
fly," and rampaging round generally. Fi-
nally, when the House came to an agreement
to proceed with the debate on the salary bill
in twenty minute speeches, Cox despatched
a page with the following note:
	"Dear Mr. Speaker.—Put me down for
twenty minutes.				S. S. C.
	To which the Speaker replied;
	"Dear Cox.—I would be delighted if I
could keep you down half that time.
J. G, B,"


PEN AND SCISSORS.
	There is no difficulty where the princi-
ples of action are known to be those of exact
justice, and diffusive benevolence.
	In New York City, single rosebuds cost
twenty-five cents, and carnations twenty
cents. Smilax is sold at one dollar a yard,
and violets by the dozen at twelve cents.
One spray of lilies of the valley costs twen-
ty-five cents.
	If you wanted to teach a person to read,
you would not go to work by depriving
him of all access to books. Be kind, gen-
tle, forbearing as you please, but make every
woman responsible for the performance of
duty, and commence, O men, by doing your
own.
	The late physician to the Emperor of
Russia made a careful study of the effect of
light as a curative agent in the hospital of
St. Petersburg. He discovered that the
number of patients who were cured in rooms
properly lighted was four times as large as
it was when they were confined in dark
rooms.
	“As a man thinketh, so is he.” We see
people nearly every day who consider them-
selves the most unhappy, ill-fated, badly
used people in the world. And certainly
they may be classed among the most miser-
able of the human race, for their wretched
dispositions alone, make them so. Again,
we meet with others who believe that they
are—almost without exception—the most
favored of all God’s creatures. They realize
the peculiar blessings which He bestows up-
on them, and often forget that He may be
doing as great good to their neighbors,
though perhaps in some other way. So, no
matter what their circumstances in life may
be, they still inhabit dwellings among the
most blest of mankind—gratitude and good-
nature place them there.
	The question is asked, how are men to do
business if they must share their receipts
with a wife? But there is no need that they
should share receipts with a wife in that
way. They should appropriate a certain
stated sum to family expenses, which it is
the wife's business to use to the best advan-
tage for the comfort and happiness of the
household. Beyond that it is the man’s
business, as it should be his pleasure, to so
employ his energies as to develop the world’s
resources, increase its wealth, and set the
example of a wise and true use of it, ac-
knowledging always the right of his wife
to a share in the accumulations of his indus-
try, and her prudence in devoting them first
to the enlargment of the comfort and happi-
ness of the family.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2 one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY, April 1, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	The idea is gaining grounds that the fre-
quent use of fish as diet is promotive of
brain power......Gilt and silver buttons for
collars and cuffs, fastening with a spring, are
becoming popular......Two of the gentlemen
composing a Committee of the Common
Council of Boston, to nominate candidates
for Overseers of the Poor, recommend the
appointment of women to such offices......
Disraeli and Sir S. Northcote have been re-
elected to Parliament without opposition.....
Wire netting is being introduced as a sub-
stitute for lath. It is considered better than
lath as it requires less labor is more con-
tinuous and is fire-proof......Dr. Decaisne of
Paris protests against the drinking of blood
as a cure for invalids, pronouncing it equally
absurd and disgusting. We should think 
so......Immigrant wagons from Iowa were
crossing the Missouri river on the ice as late
as March 14th......Considerable excitement
has been occasioned from cinnabar being
discovered near Carson Nevada......Report
says, every white man who marries a squaw,
in the Indian Territory is given 100 acres of 
land......Church property is taxed in Texas
.....Nilsson, Capoul and many others were to
sing at a concert given in March, by a com-
mittee of young ladies, in aid of the build-
ing fund of the Young Ladies' Christian
Association of New York......Oliver Ames
has been elected president, and E. H. Rol-
lins Secretary of the U. P. R. R. Co.......The 
largest rose-bush in America is at Santa
Rosa, Cal.......There are thirty-four cotton
mills in Georgia......Mrs. B. H. Conway of
Fredrick County, Md., is a prominent railroad
contractor......In Southern Indiana the wal-
nut timber is nearly exhausted......Barnett,
Vt., is proud of a young resident named
Nelson, who has spelled down three school
districts four times........On Dunn's Lake,
Florida, Jamaica ginger is extensively cul-
tivated......Santa Anna is seventy-six years
old, and he is going to Mexico, the land of
his birth and early glories, to spend his re-
maining days......Florida gets most of her
butter from Ohio.....Methodism in India,
as elsewhere, it is said, is becoming noted
for its singing......It is estimated that over
14,500,000 children are of school age in this
country......A daughter of the Earl of Gains-
borough, married her music teacher, came
to this country and now resides in Virginia,
where she is known as Mrs. Blanche Mur-
phy.........In Amador County, Cal., a pure
quality of Alum is found in large quantities
in the form of incrustations on the rocks.....
The Legislature of Georgia has repealed all
acts authorizing the granting or loaning of
the State's credit to railroad companies.......
In Troy. N. Y., saloon keepers issue invita-
tions and provide free lunches for the tem-
perance ladies......A new life-boat, called
"The Petrel," has been invented by Mr.
Chapman, an English gentleman........The
remains of Dr. Livingstone, it is reported,
will be transported from Africa to England
at public expense......During a late storm,
the steamship "Sedra" was lost on the way
from Newcastle to Port Said, and thirty per-
sons were drowned.


A MODEL DAIRYMAID.

	Charles Nordhoff, in his California travels,
found some model dairy farms. In most of
them men did the milking and also the
butter making; but, alas! he was captivated
with one pretty face he met by chance:
	“On one farm I found a pretty Sweedish,
girl superintending all the in-door work


with such skill and order in all departments
that she possessed, so far as I saw, the
model dairy on the estate. Here, said I to
myself, is now an instance of the ability of
women to compete with men, which would
delight Mrs. Stanton and all the woman's
rights people. Here is the neatest, the
sweetest, the most complete dairy in the
whole region; the best order, the most shin-
ing utensels, the nicest butter-room—and
not only butter, but cheese is also made,
which is not usual; and here is a rosy-faced,
white-armed, smooth-haired, sensibly-dress-
ed, and altogether admirable, and to my
eyes beautiful Sweedish lass presiding over
it all, commanding her men servants and
keeping every part of the business in order.
Alas! Mrs. Stanton, she has discovered a
better business than butter-making. She is
going to marry—sensible girl that she is;
and she is not going to marry a dairy-far-
mer either. I doubt if any body in Califor-
nia can make such nice butter as this pretty
Sweed. Certainly every other dairy I saw
seemed to me common-place and uninterset-
ing after I had seen hers. I don't doubt
that the young man who had the art to
persuade her to love him ought to be hang-
ed, because butter-making is far more im-
portance than marrying. Nevertheless, I
wish him joy in advance; and hereby give
it as my belief that the pretty Sweed is a
sensible girl."


NOTICE.

	THE ANNUAL Conference to be held in this
city on the 6th of April next, will meet and
adjourn to Thursday, May 7th, at 10 o'clock
a. m.
					BRIGHAM YOUNG,
					GEORGE A. SMITH,
					DANIEL H. WELLS.

	     NOTICE TO OUR FRIENDS.

	In our last issue we published a few hints to
correspondents, which we trust will be received
kindly, and be productive of the beneficial ef-
fects, for which they were intended. Will our
friends please read them, and cease to send us
anonymous contributions? As an article can-
not receive attention except we are in posses-
sion of the author's real name.—We wish also
to state that obituary poems in memory of pri-
vate individuals cannot be given space in the
columns of the EXPONENT, as there are so
many received of that character, that it would
be inconsistent to attempt their insertion in
our limited space. The time draws near which
brings our second volume to a close; and we
hope to find our friends still in readiness to as-
sist in carrying on the undertaking which we
have engaged in for the general good. As many
subscriptions as can be obtained, should be
sent in before the first of June, at which time


the EXPONENT commences its third year. So
that we may be prepared to issue a sufficient
number of copies to meet the demands from
the beginning of the volume. Many calls have
been made for back numbers of the present
volume, some of which we have been unable
to meet, not having risked the uncertain in-
demnity of issuing a large number of surplu
copies. This disadvantage both to the journal
and to its subscribers we wish to guard against
in future; and therefore give timely notice, in
order that those wishing to secure the full vol-
ume may do so by sending in their subscrip-
tions before the time arrives for issuing the first
number of volume third.


A GOOD PROPOSITION.

	Utah produces yearly an abundance of fruit
of various kinds, still thousands of dollars are
annually expended by the people for canned
fruits, jellies etc., which are imported from
California and other places. This is poor econ-
omy. But besides this, by the great quantities
of surplus fruit which is left to rot on the
ground or dry and shrivel on the trees and
bushes, the atmosphere of cities is infected with
impure and unwholesome effluvia, which, as is
well known, engenders disease.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow offers a suggestion, to
the effect that the women might take the mat-
ter in hand, and by co-operating, find measures
for preserving the fruit at home—thus prevent-
ing the waste and curtailing expenses.
	We doubt not, the hint will meet with general
favor, and be productive of good results. If
such a plan were adopted on a large enough
scale, it would follow as a natural consequence
that more pains would be taken and better
qualities of fruit raised. And it would also
cause a necessity for the starting of some use-
ful branches of industry in our midst, which
are now unknown in Utah.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	OGDEN COMMEMORATED St. Patrick's day by a
grand ball at the Junction Hotel.
	A PLANK side walk has been put down in
front of the Post Office; an improvement wor-
thy of notice in these times of slush and mud.
	ST. PATRICK’S day, March. 17th, passed with-
out any public celebration in this city. The
cause has been assigned to the unusually severe
snow storm.
	THE FREIGHTING of ore over the Wasatch
and Jordan Valley railroad has been increasing
lately. This line has a fair prospect for doing a
large business during the coming summer.
	THE HORTICULTURAL Society, a short time
since discussed the question as to which kinds of
trees are the most suited for shade trees in this
climate. They decided that the best sorts for
general cultivation here, are the honey locust,
mulberry, box elder and black walnut.
	OWNERS OF city lots should take advantage
of the present time to clean out or make water
ditches in front of their property, thus prepar-
ing for the abundance of water likely to result
from the melting snows, and also contributing
to the neat appearance of our city.
	THE OGDEN Junction strongly advocates the
necessity and benefit of a public library and
reading room for that city; also the erecting of
a good lecture-hall. An Ogden City Library
Association has been organized and formed
the nucleus for a library but it needs general
encouragement and support to become a success.


[Column 1]	
	THE PEOPLE of Logan, have been energetic
during the past winter season notwithstanding
its severity, in preparing to push forward the
work on their new Tabernacle when the fine
weather opens. Several thousand tons of rock
and a large quantity of sand have been hauled,
about enough, it is believed, for the foundation
and walls.
	THE FALL of snow since our last issue has
been without doubt—one of the deepest that
has occured in this city since it has been settled
being nearly if not quite two feet deep. The
storm, with brief respites, continued for several
days. The last few days of fine weather have
caused the snow, in the valley, to rapidly 
disappear.
	The Z. C. M. I. Retail boot and shoe depart-
ment is being moved from the “Big Boot,” on
Main street, to the Wholesale Dept., just west
of the Eagle Emporium on First South St.
The Retail business is to be carried on in the
front part, and the Wholesale in the south
or rear part of the building. Both departments
will be under the charge of Mr. Rowe.
	A YOUNG Men’s Institute has been organized
in the 19th ward of this city, The following 
brethren were elected as officers—George Neb-
eker, President; James Watson and Geo. D.
Nebeker, Vice-Presidents; A. W. Carlson, Sec-
retary; Wm. Ridd, Treasurer; Millando Pratt,
J. M. Watson, Christopher Alston, Elihu Bar-
rel, Joseph Mathews and Alfred Solomon,
Directors. We hope its members will be as
successful in their efforts for mutual entertain-
ment and improvement as the members of
other kindred societies have been.
	THE LAST two or three weeks has been mark-
ed by heavy storms extending over a wide
range of country, and the snow has been unusu-
ally deep in many localities throughout these
mountains. The Central Pacific railroad was
blockaded twice in the Sierras, when the snow
was reported to be at one time, from twenty-five
to thirty feet deep. The heavy drifting snow
has also impeded travel, over the Utah North-
ren R. R., sleighs having been used to convey
passengers and mails over the blockaded por-
tion of the road. Reports from different coun-
ties show that stock have suffered for the want
of feed; especially where they have been turned
out to subsist on what they could find in the
mountains and on the “ranges,” many have
died through cold and starvation.
	FROM THE “Ogden Junction” we learn that
on the 13th ult., a grand Sabbath School Jubi-
lee was held at Brigham City, Box Elder Co.,
in the Court House hall which was elegantly
decorated for the occasion. The morning hours
were devoted to recitations, songs, and other
exercises by the scholars, and addresses by
prominent citizens. The afternoon and eve-
ning were given to dancing. Superintendents
J.C. Wixom, A. Madsen, C. Kelley and Sec’y
T. H. Wild, with others, doing all in their
power to promote the well being and pleasure
of the participants. Also on Saturday the 14th,
and Sunday the l5th, a Conference for that
Stake was held at the same place. President
Lorenzo Snow, of the Twelve Apostles, presid-
ed over the meetings which were densely
crowded, notwithstanding the inclement
weather. The choir conducted by Prof, Fis-
burn, with their sweet music contributed to
make the occasion a very interesting one. The
different branches of the Church and de-
partments of the Co-operative Institution, in
that county, were represented. Much excel-
lent and practical instruction was imparted by
the various speakers, and the general authori-
ties of the Church, and of the Box Elder Stake

[Column 2]
of Zion were unanimously sustained by vote.
We also note that “A number of young men
were called and sustained by the Conference to
labor in the several departments of the Co-op-
erative Institution,” which, in that locality,
has become one of the most successful and
self-sustaining in the country; and though
money is not very plentiful, the people are
prosperous and comfortable.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE NOISE OF CHILDREN.

	There is too much fussing about the noise of chil-
dren, consequent upon too little knowledge of the
requirements of youth in its effervescing state. If
growth and health are considered in their true bear-
ings, children cannot make too much noise. The
school-mistress who enforces silence on her pupils
is committing, unintentionally, of course, an offense
against reason, worthy only of a convent. Every
burst of laughter, every shout, nay, every moderate
fit of crying conduces to health, by radidly filling
and emptying the lungs and changing the blood
rapidly from black to red—that is, from death to
life. Andrew Combe is a great authority on such
matters, and he tells a story of a great charity school,
where the pupils were forced to be so silent that a
large portion fell ill. Without doubt this is one
good reason why children with delicate constitutions
cannot go through our public schools without break-
ing down. They are kept too still. Often too,
teachers are disposed to insist on a posture so erect
as to be absolutely injurious; for the body has more
parts than one, and while to sit so upright is good
for the chest, it is, if long continued, an intense
strain on the spine. The truth is, children should
not be subjected to monotony of any kind. They
should speak and be silent, sit erect and loll, very
much as nature inclines grown people to do. It is
time that more attention is paid to the Kindergar-
ten system in schools, and less to the State’s prison
one so generally in vogue.—Ex.


﻿STRONG CHESTS FOR WOMEN AND
			CHILDREN.

	Dr. Susan Everett's lecture last week, at Robin-
son Hall, in New York, to ladies, on “Strong Chests
for Women and Children,” called forth a large audi-
ence. Mrs. Everett chained the attention of her
hearers to the last. Her bright sayings and prac-
tical and often unexpected application of her re-
marks to those present, were pleasantly received
and several times applauded. Mrs. Everett briefly
introduced her subject by calling attention to the
Venus de Medici, the proportions of which she ap-
proved, with the exception of the head, which she
called “almost a deformity.” The model head ex-
hibited was after the phrenological pattern—spirit-
ualized. Statistics show that only one man in seven
has a chest proportioned to the rest of his body.
Mrs. Everett hazarded the assertion that only one
woman in twenty possesses a properly developed
chest. Corsets, the most delicate whalebones, she
very emphatically asserted, are deleterious to health.
Large numbers of women are “chest-foundered.”
Women can materially increase the size of their
chests by paying due attention to a proper mode of
breathing. The nose only is the right medium for
conveying air to the lungs. She discouraged the
cultivation of plants in living rooms. She advoca-
ted large supplies of fresh air and gymnastic exer-
cises for chest development. Women who inhale
and exhale correctly, have more enthusiasm; they
possess a fine carriage, provided they do not wear
corsets. Because American women are enthusiastic,
they are the handsomest women in the world.
Foreign women, as a rule, become too stout, are
too phlegmatic, too expressionless.—“Woman’s
Journal.”


YOU may glean knowledge by reading,
but you must separate the chaff from the
wheat by thinking.


THE SEX.

	QUEEN Victoria is said to be writing a
book, the scene being laid in Germany.
	THE Baroness Lionel de Rothschild is said
to be the author of “From January to De-
cember.”
	IT is said of the mother of Chang and
Eng, the Siamese Twins, she was so large
that when she died the sides of the doorway
had to be cut away to enable the coffin to
pass out.
	AT the thirty-fourth Annual Commence-
ment of the Baltimore College of Dental
Surgery, Miss Louise Jacobi, of Berlin, Prus-
sia, graduated with high honor, being
among the first in anatomy and chemistry.
	THE names of the four Swedish girls who
are attracting so much attention in Paris
by their quartet singing of Scandinavian
melodies, are Hilda Wideburg, Marie Peter-
sen, Amy Aberg and Wildelmina Soeder-
lund.
	THE will of Miss Bettie Bates was pro-
bated at Indianapolis. It disposes of a
quarter of a million of property; $150,000
she bequeaths to her relatives and friends,
and she provides a fund of $100,000 for the
benefit of the poor of the city.
	MRS. Dr. Helen W. Webster of New Bed-
ford, has accepted the position of Professor
of Physiology and Hygiene and Resident
Physician at Vassar College. Mrs. Webster
has been very successful as a physician at
New Bedford, and is represented to be well
qualified for her new position.
	MISS Landseer has presented £100 to the
English Lifeboat Institution as a memorial
of the regard her brother, Sir Edwin
Landseer, had often expressed for the Insti-
tution as the means of a great and noble
work on the coast of the British Isles.
	THE Princess Pierre Bonaparte has arrived
in Paris. Having been reduced almost to
poverty by the fall of the empire, she deter-
mined to try and gain her own living, and
so set up a dressmaker’s establishment in
Bond St., London, which is now in a thriv-
ing state. She went to Paris to make pur-
chases.
	A MARYLAND lady, Mrs. B. H. Conway,
of Frederick County, who has established a
reputation as a contractor for “fills” and
“cuts,” has filled several contracts in Penn-
sylvania, been awarded a $100,000 job on
the Western Maryland Railroad, and now
takes the work of excavating a tract in Bal-
timore for building sites.
	QUEEN Victoria is gradually recovering
from the grief of her widowhood. For a
long time after the death of the Prince Con-
sort she could not bear to touch a piano, nor
did she even allow one to be opened in her
presence. Now she has resumed her old
accomplishment, and plays duets with her
last remaining daughter, the Princess Bea-
trice; and Gounod has arranged some of the
music of “Jeanne d’Arc” as a duet for the
Queen and her daughter.
	THE education of native girls in India is
progressing satisfactorily, in spite of the so-
cial prejudices against it. In a recent ex-
amination of the Free Church Orphanage,
six girls out of ten obtained sufficient marks
to have put them in the first division of the
University list, and some of the examiners
were Hindoos. Similar results have been
obtained in Madras, where the girls pass the
government examination for certificated
school mistresses.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE LOVE OF BEAUTY.

	O flower! the sunshine loves to kiss,
	Speckled or streaked, or bright or dull!
	What can we say of thee but this?—
			So beautiful!

	O grass! that has with glory decked
	The land that else were bare and dull,
	This for thy title we elect—
			Most beautiful!

	O star! that gildest all the sea.
	And fill’st the air with splendor full,
	What is there to be said of thee—
			Save beautiful?

	O child! with tresses spun of gold,
	And eyes with heavenly light o’er full,
	What word has half thy beauty told—
			Like beautiful?

	In truth, when any thing is sweet,
	The grass we tread, the flower we cull,
	The star, the child, we must repeat—
			How beautiful!
							ALICE CARY,


[Column 1]
	       HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	The Home of Taste.—How easy it is to 
be neat—to be clean! How easy to arrange
the rooms with the most graceful propriety!
How easy it is to invest our houses with the
truest elegance! Elegance resides not with
the upholsterer or the draper; it exists in 
the spirit presiding over the apartments of
the dwelling. Contentment must always
be most grateful; it sheds serenity over the
scene of its abode; it transforms a waste in-
to a garden. The home lighted by those 
imitations of a nobler and brighter life may
be wanting in much which the discontented
desire, but to its inhabitants it will be a pal-
ace, far outvying the Oriental in brilliancy
and beauty.
	In these days of canned fruits, sauces are
always ready. Fill empty cans toward
spring with sweet apples. They are nice
with a few raisins or spiced lemons.
	Apple Short-cakes.—Make a rich cake of
sour cream, saleratus and enough flour to
roll out; bake, split open and spread on
stewed apples, sugar, butter, and nutmeg.
	Bridgeport Cake.—One cup of butter, two
of sugar, three and one half of flour, two of
currants, one of sour milk, four eggs, one
teaspoonful of soda, juice and grated rind of
one lemon.
	Mucilage of Gum-arabic—According to
R: Rother, the following formula affords a
mucilage which will keep in the hottest
weather:—Gum-arabic, 12 troy ounces; gly-
cerine, 8 fluid ounces; water 16 fluid ounces.
	We sometimes find our store of pickles
growing too small towards spring, and it is
rather a poor time to replenish them; but
apple pickles are about as good as any, judg-
ing from the way people eat them. Pare
and halve the apples, removing the cores
carefully to keep them in good shape,
Steam them and remove to a jar. Heat
spiced vinegar and pour over them.
	Lemon Pie.—Three eggs, three lemons,
three tablespoonfuls of corn starch, three cups
of sugar, one quart of boiling water, and a
little salt. Wet the starch first in cold wa-
ter, then add slowly the hot water; roll the
lemons, cut them open and squeeze out the
juice, peel out the pulp and cut fine. Do
not use the rind. Add the juice and pulp
to the sugar and starch. Beat the eggs and
add them last. This will make five pies
with two crusts each.
	Antidote for Poison.—If a person swallows
any poison whatever, or has fallen into con-
vulsions from having overloaded the stom-
[Column 2]
ach, an instantaneous remedy, more efficient
and applicable in a large number of cases
than any half a dozen medicines we can now
think of,is a heaping teaspoon full of common
salt, and as much ground mustard, stirred
rapidly in a cup of water, warm or cold, and
swallowed instantly. It is scarcely down
before it begins to come up, bringing with
it the remaining contents of the stomach,
and lest there be any remnant of a poison,
however small, let the white of an egg, or a 
teacup of strong coffee, be swallowed as soon
as the stomach is quiet: because these very
common articles nullify a larger number of
virulent poisons than any medicines in the
shops.
	Buckwheat Cakes.—Take 4 tablespoonfuls
of hop yeast, 4 cups of tepid water, nearly
4 cups of buckwheat flour, sifted, and a little
salt. Measure the flour after sifting, or they
will be too thick. Mix in a stone jar, and if
desired for breakfast, let them stand over
night in a warm place to rise, and when
light fry as other griddle cakes. Leave
about a teacupful of batter in the jar, and
add water, salt and flour as before, omitting
the yeast. The second and third mess will
be better than the first. Use no saleratus
in these cakes. If they should become sour
cleanse the jar thoroughly and start again
with yeast. Be sure to keep the jar in a cool
place after the batter begins to rise, or it
will become sour. These cakes are delicious
with nice butter and honey. Very nice
apple griddle cakes are made as above,
only substituting good wheat flour for buck-
wheat, and when ready to fry, stirring gen-
tly among them a quantity of sliced, mel-
low apples (not too acid.)


[Column 1]
		 WOMAN'S VOICE.

			S. L. CITY, March 20th, 1874.
MRS. RICHARDS:—
	Often when reading the spirited, intelli-
gent letters of our sisters, in your paper, I
have been led to ask, 'why do I not say
something in behalf of the kingdom of God
and its principles, through our worthy EX-
PONENT?' For indeed it is worthy the sup-
port of every good woman, and, I believe,
will shortly be earnestly sustained by a large
portion of the brethren. My husband pro-
nounces it one of the best papers he reads,
and I consider him a good judge; and doubt
not that many of my sisters will concede
that I am right in thus thinking. I feel it
my duty to do all in my power to sustain
this enterprise, and am not afraid to say
that it will flourish, as will every other
good work, supported by the people of God.
This has the most noble of women at its
head,—those who are making bright marks
in our midst, not by carrying out the abomi-
able fashions and customs of the ungodly,
but the true and humble ones in the cause
of right. Sisters, let us all try to be USEFUL
ORANMENTS in the Kingdom of God; and
let the world, and those who choose it and
its practices take the downward course, if
they refuse the precious Gospel and its bless-
ings which are offered without money and
wtihout price, to every one. What joy and
happiness we feel when we know we are
doing right! What purer joy exists on
earth, than that which the little girl feels
when she can look in her mother's face and
meet a tender, loving smile, knowing that
she has done all that was required of her
during the day? She can fall asleep at
night and dream beautiful dreams,and awake
in the morning to begin her joyfull task
again: but, should she forget and trifle with
her mother's counsel, as many children do,
[Column 2]
what is the result? At night, there is no
sweet smile from Mother—and the thought-
ful child goes to bed with a sad heart, not
to be blest with cheering dreams, or to rise
in the morning full of joy to meet the par-
ent whom she has offended. Who among
our young sisters then, would not take the
advice of experience, and love and obey
their dear fathers and mothers who, while
in life, bless and protect them from the
snares of this wicked world? And
when death separates loving hearts, is
it not worth worlds, to know that the dear
ones have gone to plead for their children,
and prepare a home for them in the man-
sions of the blest, while their teachings of
obedience to the principles of the kingdom
of our Father in heaven, are left as the rich-
est of inheritances, for those that love the
Lord! Then, let us each one say, 'However
others may do, as for me, I will seek to do
right, and serve God.' Knowing that when
we do this, we feel contented and have a
sweet influence that whispers peace and
comfort in the midst of earthly trials. And
when the sleep of death comes, what a glo-
rious thought to awaken in the realms of
the sanctified, and enjoy the society of the
noble, just and truo that have gone before 
us!					E. F. THOMAS.

		SMITHFIELD, March 14th, 1874.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:—
	This is a beautiful morning, warm and
bright and pleasant, but your correspondent
not feeling first-rate either in body or mind,
concluded, by way of “courting sunshine”
to sit down and address a line to you. Doubt-
less you are aware that when the heart is
a little o’er burdened with care, the mind
restive and anxious, one of the best meth-
ods for producing quiescence, is to pick up a
pen and begin writing. Not hastily, so that
you merely give vent to your unpleasant
feelings by putting them down on paper— 
thus aggravating instead of correcting them;
but writing thoughtfully, carefully, in a
manner that one could feel conscientiously
self-justified in adopting, even in the pres-
ence of angels.
	We have had a long, heavy winter here, 
and I begin to feel almost impatient for the
snow and frost to quit the earth, and let the
sun warm and prepare it for the labors of
the husbandman and the reception of seeds
and plants. You know I must have my
little flower-garden if there is the laest 
chance for such a thing, wherever I am.
	I feel thankful now, to be where I can go
to meeting and have the society of Saints. 
And wherever my lot may be cast, I desire
one thing, and that is to live my Religion 
day-by-day. I am glad to see your paper
improving, and sincerely hope it will continue
to shed forth light both at home and abroad;
and that it may help prove to the ignorant
and benighted, that those who speak evil of
Zion, are bringing themselves under con-
demnation before the Almighty Judge.
	God bless you always and keep you in His
gracious care. Affectionately,
                                                       S. K. G.


MARIE Verdin, a girl 18 years of age, is
attracting the attention of the medical fac-
ulty of Paris. She is afflicted with a strange
infirmity known as "nyctalope," that is, los-
ing the faculty of sight when the sun is
above the horizon, and regaining it in the
night-time. During the day Mlle. Verdin
is obliged to keep her eyes closed and to
wear a thick veil. But in utter darkness
she can see so as to read and write with per-
fect ease.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS.

	The following extract from the “Congres-
sional Record,” of Feb. 17th, will be inter-
esting to those who have not read it before.
	“Mr. Cannon, of Utah. I present a me-
morial of the Legislative Assembly of Utah
Territory, asking for a commission of inves-
tigation to be sent to Utah to inquire into
all alleged abuses in affairs there. I ask
that the memorial be read.
	The memorial was read as follows:
	We, your Memorialists, the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah, respect-
fully represent that, whereas a large majori-
ty of the people of this Territory are accus-
ed of disloyalty, insubordination, and other
violations of the Constitution, and laws of
the United States; and, whereas these ac-
cusations are absolutely untrue, and are
made with malicious intent to procure pro-
scriptive legislation by Congress.
	Therefore, being anxious that legislation,
if upon thorough investigation any should
be deemed necessary, should be such as will
conduce to the greatest good of all, we re-
spectfully and earnestly solicit your honor-
able body to send to Utah a commission of
investigation, with instructions to inquire
into all the alleged abuses in our Territorial
affairs, and with authority to send for per-
sons and papers needed in the prosecution
of their inquiries.
	And we further respectfully ask your
honorable body, for the protection of what
we deem the best interests of the whole
people of the Territory, to suspend all ac-
tion, so far as special legislation for Utah is
concerned, until such time as said commis-
sion shall have had opportunity to investi-
gate and report. And for a course so con-
ducive to wise, and consequently beneficial,
legislation action we, your memorialists,
will ever pray.
	Mr. Cannon, of Utah.—I move that the
memorial be referred to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
	Mr. Merriam.—I think it ought to go to
the Committee on the Territories.
	The Speaker.—The Chair thinks the
points presented in the memorial are judi-
cial in their character.
	Mr. Cannon, of Utah.—I desire that it
shall go to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and have made that motion.
	Mr. Merriam.—I would like a vote on
that.  I think it is very important that this
should go to the Committee on the Territo-
ries and I move to amend the motion of
the gentleman from Utah by substituting
the Committee on the Territories.
	The question being put on Mr. Merriam’s
amendment, there were—ayes 42, noes not
counted.
	So the amendment was not agreed to.
	The memorial was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and ordered to be
printed.
	Mr. Sargent of California, presented the
same memorial in the Senate, on Feb. 18th,
and it was referred to the Judiciary Com-
mittee.


EVERY-DAY Exaggerations.—“I am tired
to death.” So you have said often, and are
alive still, and in good health too. “I had
not a wink of sleep all night.” And yet
your bed-fellow heard you snore several
times. “I would not do it for the world.”
And yet you have done many things equally
bad for a penny. “We were up to our
knees in mud.” You know very well the
dirt was not over your shoes.


[Column 1]
				﻿[For the Exponent
GOVERNMENT, PEOPLE AND
		PRIVILEGES.
	A government, we understand to be a
Regulation, an Executive power; and some
form of executive power must exist among
the children of men for their well being, as
almost any regulation is better than confu-
sion. But it seems that God, Himself fa-
vors some systems over others, for we read
in Holy Writ that He wished His chosen
Israel to be guided by Judges or courts of
equity; but it appears that they could not
bear to be set so far in advance of their age
and murmured until God, in His anger, gave
them a king. They could not realize the
grandeur and vastness of the plan from
which they thus turned away, and which
was left to be developed by later generations.
The very fact that God offered it to His cho-
sen people proves it, without the testimony
of experience, better than Monarchy,
	There should be little need to advocate
Republican institutions before the people of
this country, but I should like to ask what
is a republic? Is it a government BY THE
PEOPLE? Then who are the Rulers? Judg-
ing only by the definition given of a Repub-
lic, one would say the people rule; but in
common speech, the men called, chosen and
sent by the people to manipulate the machi-
nery of government, and paid in dollars and
cents, from the people’s money, are called
“Rulers.” But according to this precedent,
the hired workman in a manufactory is the
head of the firm and the hired cook or house-
keeper, the head of the house.
	However, some maintain that the people
rule, because they have power to appoint
the way—I believe they call it “platform”
on which their paid agents shall walk; and
I am disposed to think these are right or at
least, they should be.
	Then, the next question which presents
itself is Who are the People? That is a
stupid question, for any child can tell you
that the men, women and children who live
permanently in any country, are the people
of that country.
	MEN, WOMEN and CHILDREN! each and
all three indispensible to the existence and
interests of a people! Man, the right hand,
woman, the left, and child the dear object
for which they both toil. Or, man the founda-
tion, woman the wall and child the roof of
the social superstructure, crowning both, but
resting more immediately on the wall,
woman; though neither could stand without
the support of the sturdy foundation, man.
	I am aware that this figure of speech
places the child above both parents, and that
is my intention; because the world yearly
grows riper and rises in the scale of intelli-
gence, and even as we inherit the garnered
wisdom of the past, so will the children be
richer for every step we can take in the
grand march of improvement; and just so
far as they have better land marks in life,
will they be above us. My smile also marks
the welfare and interests of the human
trinity, one and inseparable; for if roof, wall
or foundation be wanting, of what possible
value can the others be?
	He is not the greatest statesman who in-
augurates the most imposing ceremonies,
displays the most glittering pageantry or
lifts himself to the most giddy height; but
he who looks farthest beyond his own brief
day to the time when his children and his
children’s children shall engage in life’s
busy warfare; he who lays the deepest
foundation under, and rears the most un-
yielding walls around knowledge, sobriety
and progress; thus leaving behind him the

[Column 2]
brightest example of pure, unselfish patriot-
ism and liberal views.
	And the very first step in that direction
must be to live to the letter and the spirit
of our fundamental principle of “Equal
rights for all.” Let each individual find
his proper station in life by his innate ten-
dencies and powers; not by any accident of
birth or station. Keep not millions of Af-
ricans in bondage because they are not
white, nor millions of sisters in equal sub-
serviency because they are not brothers.
	The world seems to gather impetus in its
course, and reforms tread faster upon each
other than formerly. The nation has scarcely
ceased panting from the exertion of freeing
its black children from their shackles, when
lo! its daughters hold up their manacled
hands and plead to have their fetters, also,
broken. The sons cry out in direst amaze-
ment, “THESE are NOT fetters, but the costly
bracelets which we gave them, to make
them more beautiful in our eyes! They in
bondage! They are our idols, gems who
rule over us by the power of their beauty,
their grace and all their little clinging, ca-
ressing, timid ways!”
	Is this so, gentlemen? Even if it is, you
ignore such as have no beauty, are not tim-
id and clinging nor skilled to flatter; but
even passing by this grave omission and
considering only those mentioned who do
possess these qualifications, let us see, with-
out desiring to question the purity of your
convictions or the kindness of your inten-
tions, how far facts will bear out your state-
ment. Let us examine the quality of the
allegiance you pay your pretty sovereigns.
	The lady must live in this world some
fifteen or twenty years before she comes in-
to full possession of those royal prerogatives
by which she is to maintain her despotism.
And how does she fare, meanwhile? Not
just as her future subject does. He is dress-
ed in a way that does not impede his move-
ments nor occupy his attention. He is al-
lowed to live much in the open air, run,
shout, whistle, wrestle, stand on head or
heels at his own sweet will. Thus he builds
up for himself those strong muscles and
nerves, that vigor of body and mind which
in after years are his boast and the grounds
of his self-asserted SUPERIORITY.
	SHE must be dressed so that she will look
pretty, whether she is comfortable or not.
She must live mostly indoors for fear of em-
browning that fair face which is her strong-
est claim to future sovereignty.(?) She
must not take boisterous exercise nor make
a loud noise, because these are not ladylike;
but if her lungs are weak, her muscles feeble
or her information concerning the common
objects of nature and art very limited, so
much gained, because all these ARE lady-
like.
	What exercise she does take, must be in
picking up things after her brother, making
his bed, darning his stockings or cooking his
dinner, besides doing all these things for
herself; and although he is too young to ap-
preciate and reciprocate her little services,
trust me, he is not too young to revel in his
freedom and secretly, if not openly despise
her—as all free creatures do confined ones—
for her imprisonment. And be sure this is
a lesson much more easily learned, than un-
learned.
	When they begin to study, he is encour-
aged, urged, almost compelled to delve
deeply into all solid sciences; not only math-
ematics and astronomy, natural history and
chemistry, but financial and political econo-
my, the laws of his country and the history,
policy and destiny of nations.
	She is expected to learn style in dress and


[Column 1]
manners, singing, dancing and a smattering
of some foreign tongue, besides the lesson
of “sweet dependence;” and so far from be-
ing urged to persue those deep and satis-
factory studies, she is ridiculed, blamed and
even persecuted if she attempts it. Then
her pampered brothers, ignoring all this,
taunt her all her days with her "intellectu-
al inferiority."
	By the time they get only started on the
stair of intellectual cultivation, she is ex-
pected, while he continues climbing, to
abandon it forever, to don those jeweled
handcuffs, bracelets, those shining badges of
slavery, ear-rings, together with the whole
bewildering array of pretty(?) things,and re-
port herself in the matrimonial MARKET. 
	The very word implies a degradation, but,
thanks to her careful education, she does
not know it; she is docile and does what is
expected of her gracefully. For the sake
of that "fellow feeling which makes us
wonderous kind," I decline to mention the
numberless tricks and arts which she is
taught and often uses to attract attention;
and look upon her again when she is "settled
in life," a wife, a mother, the idol and sov-
ereign of some poor, subjugated man's heart
and life.
	In the first place, did we not see her, we
should not recognize her as the same; be-
cause—perhaps to evince her supremacy—
she renounced her own name, at marriage,
and now wears her husband’s. However,
rather than have confusion in children’s
names, I am disposed to consent to that
sacrifice, even though, because of it, her
father gave her less of his property than he
did her brothers. He wishing to aggran-
dize his name among his fellow men.
	The portion she did inherit, by virtue of
her marriage, became her husband’s, and he
is now sole master of it—not joint owrner,
but sole owner. Now if this, were recip-
rocal—if that same ceremony placed her in
possession of his property, it might be en-
durable; but even then I fail to see any
beauty in it.
	But that is not the case. He is owner of
all during his life, and at his death, he may
give, by will, to others two thirds of all his
possessions, leaving her only one third.
And even without a will, if he die childless
his relatives may, according to law, claim
two thirds of his property even if all were
hers before marriage, or earned by her after
marraige.
	And this is another rule which works only
one way. If she die first she may not be-
queath even her one third. Some States
however, have very lately passed laws to
the effect that a wife may bequeath her
third, provided—she first obtains her HUS-
BAND'S WRITTEN CONSENT; which amounts
to simply this: The law mildly recommends
the husband to give away certain property,
just to please a departing wife.
	Then again, her body, this very conve-
nient framework of flesh, blood and bones
which she inherited at her birth by the di-
vine right of her humanity, is no longer
hers. She may not use it as she pleases,
but as he pleases; and rebellion against his
supreme will in this matter is so severely
condemned by law, that many divorces
have been granted to husbands on this com-
plaint alone. Think of it, dear sisters, your
persons are not yours but your husband’s
and so far from having exchanged your own
for theirs, they own both themselves and
you.
	But that is not the worst yet, for she is
a mother. That beloved child whose fragile
life she nourished with her own through
months of pain and suffering, and which,
possibly without one ray of sympathy, one

[Column 2]
gentle word, one expression of tender solici-
tude for her welfare, she brought into the
world—this sweet bud of promise is not her
own. 						L. L. D.
		CONTINUED IN OUR NEXT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿TIGHT DRESSES.

	“Oh, I should die; why, I am so weak I
can’t hold myself up when I loosen or take
off my corsets,” said a young married
woman to us. So you think you could im-
prove upon God’s plan of constructing the
trunk of the body? He curiously adjusted
and balanced the machinery of life inside of
a framework of bones—some of them firm
others flexible—all clothed with flesh con-
taining veins, arteries and nerves. Even
the covering we call the skin is more deli-
cate and beautiful in its structure than satin
or silk. But God’s wisdom is nothing to
you! Oh, no! you know best, of course! and
therefore attempt to improve upon His
plan by putting ribs of bone and steel on the
outside of this delicate network of pulsing
veins, throbbing arteries and flashing
nerves,
	Do you not remember how the Chinese
woman swathes, and wraps, and binds up
the feet of her daughter until she is com-
paratively crippled, and in our eyes, pain-
fully deformed?
	Systematic compression of the foot or arm
will not destroy life, but cripples the arm or
foot. The vital functions of life are carried
on in the trunk of the body. The lungs,
liver, heart and stomach are vital organs.
When their vigor is impaired we are sick
or ailing; when the functions of one or more
of these organs cease we die. Compression
of these is destructive of life, just in the
ratio that it impairs the vigor of these vital
organs.
	You do not breathe naturally in a corset
or tight waist. In natural respiration the
diaphragm contracts at every inspiration,
and forces the liver, stomach and bowels
downward and outward—this outward mo-
tion, and the vigor and tone it gives to
outside muscles, you have, in a large de-
gree, for years prevented; hence, when re-
leased from steel ribs, your stomach feels
weak. At each expiration, or outward
breath, the diaphragm relaxes, and the ab-
dominal muscles contract, forcing these or-
gans back to their former position; thus
keeping these vital organs in constant and
perpetual motion. This, dear, little,
thoughtless woman, is the reason you are
weak. This is the way and why you have
torpid liver and sallow skin. This is the
reason you are debilitated, and don’t know
what to do with yourself.
	Motion and room to breathe in are neces-
sary to good digestion. You have gradu-
ally compressed the size of your waist, and
pressed these vital organs back, until they
are weak and flaccid—torpid. You are only
a burlesque on a healthy woman, who runs
over with energy, and cheerfulness, and
health.
	Repent—prove yourself by your works-
burn up your corsets. Of firm drilling
make short, loose fitting waists, high in the
neck, short on the shoulder, with long
sleeves. Place a large button every three
inches around the bottom of the waist, and
hang every skirt and pair of drawers to this
waist. Do not allow anything to be tight
enough to make a crease, or print in the
flesh. You will very soon regain vigor and
bloom.—“Journal of Health."


[Column 1]
	NOTHING is so tiresome to the busy as the
visits of the idle.

[Column 2]
MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
		Electricity administered when casos requre.
Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p.m.

MRS. CARPENTER, 
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.


			H. DINWOODEY 

Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store on

	FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,

			Where he is prepared to do a

WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
pat of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do
19 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club		-	-	-	-	26 00
20 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham 
Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	34 00	
30 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club, and a superior first proof,
steel engraving of President Brigham
Young, handsomely framed, selling
price $4		-	-	-	-			48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


SUCCESS in Life.—The men who com-
mence their career under the most favorable
auspices, and the most flattering prospects
of success, do not always obtain the emi-
nence they seek. The race is not always to
the swift, nor the battle to the strong. There
is a certain ordeal which all men must un-
dergo in their passage through life; and it
is very questionable whether he succeeds
the best who commences under the most ap-
parently advantageous circumstances. There
is such a thing as a man depending too much
upon his means, and too little upon himself
—small certainties, it has been observed, are
often the ruin of man.—Jameson.


Woman's Exponent
