VOL. 2. 				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1874					NO. 24.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ATTENTION IS called, by the Rev. Dr.
Griswold, to a marked distinction between
the ideas and practices of ancient Christians,
and many worshippers of modern times in
relation to the object of people meeting to-
gether at the House of worship. He says,
"Now, the prevalent idea is that the great
feature in public services is a carefully-pre-
pared sermon; and that all the services prior
to that, are, as it were, subordinate and pre-
paratory to the discourse from man's lips
which is to follow. Then the idea of public
service was prayer and worship. Now, with
many, the sermon is uppermost, the central
service of the sacred assembly, and all other
services preparatory to that office. Then the
Supper of the Lord (which, in apostolic
days, was always celebrated on every Lord's
Day,) was foremost and the central service.
All other services were then preparatory
to that service. Then a presbyter in the
Church of Christ was appointed "to feed"
and "to govern" the Church of God. Now,
among many, a minister of Christ must be
chiefly known as a 'preacher." Is it not
clearly evident, that in these, as in number-
less other cases, the old sentiments, the old
ways are by far the wiser and happier? Yet,
where they have been restored by the power
of the Priesthood how few have accepted
them?
	THE AMERICAN palace sleeping cars have
been lately introduced into England with
success. In this country, which might be
called one of "magnificent distances," they
are considered not so much a luxury as
an indispensable comfort. And while, seem-
ingly, everything has been arranged that
could be done for the convenience of travel-
lers on the sleeping and eating cars, we do
not believe perfection has yet been attained,
nor will it be, until such suggestions as the
following, made by a lady traveller, be at-
tended to by inventors, for the comfort of
women.—"A woman's toilet, to be satisfac-
torily performed, demands some other posi-
tion than prone upon the face. Likewise,
it is somewhat more agreeable to perform
portions of the toilet unobserved by the
multitude. Men either are not burdened
with modesty, or they have minds that soar
so far above the feminine that they give no
thought to the embarrassment attendant up-
on the method and manner of disrobing
one's self in those close quarters. A woman
carefully extinguishes herself behind the
curtains, slyly unloosens a lace, envelops
herself decorously in a large waterproof,
not daring to lay aside her chignon for fear
of a surprise, and proceeds to stow herself
away uncomfortable and depressed. The
stranger in the bunk above leisurely divests
himself of his outer garments, pulls of boots,
loosens suspenders, and bounds into bed
with graceful ease, rather enjoying the situ-
ation! I think if there could be a lady's car
for sleeping and toilet, exclusive of gentle-
men, it would be a great advancement in
wayfaring civilization. I thought so this
morning, especially, when I awoke from un-
easy slumbers to find the foot-board fallen,
and a group of serene-browed men gazing
smiling upon my sleeping beauty. Let us

[Column 2]
have separate cars, good people, and we can
ask nothing more of you in the way of lux-
ury and restful ease."


THE SEX.

	AN Albany woman is going to found an
asylum for cats.
	JENNIE Lind wants to visit America this
season but her husband objects.
	HELEN Dickens, a daughter of Charles
Dickens, is creating quite an excitement in
England from her writings.
	THE woman of Iowa are rapidly prepar-
ing for the ballot by instruction in parlia-
mentary debate and general business.
	THE health of the Empress Charlotte,
widow of Maximilian, is excellent, but there
is no improvement in her mental condition.
	A MODEST Cincinnati belle, upon being
asked her father's profession, said he em-
balmed pork, she believed. He was a hog-
packer.
	THE late Mrs. Lincoln, widow of Colonel
Frederick W. Lincoln, of Canton, Mass., has
left the noble bequest of $200,000 to the
Massachusetts General Hospital.
	MRS. Arnott, the widow of the late Dr.
Neil Arnott, has offered to give $5000 for
the purpose of promoting the study of nat-
ural philosophy in the University of Edin-
burgh.
	MRS. Lucinda Marsh, widow of Major
David Marsh, of Litchfield, Conn., left a
will giving her property to trustees to di-
vide the income among the needy poor of 
that town.
	QUEEN Victoria will be formally invited
by the corporation of the city of London to
participate in the entertainment to be given
by the city to the czar, and it is possible
that the Queen will take this opportunity to
emerge from her long seclusion.
	MRS. Lowry, an actress, having recently
become a convert to Methodism, was ap-
pointed to the ministry at the conference
lately closed at Baltimore. She was a
prominent feature at several of Mrs. Van
Cott's revivals, while that lady figured in
the Monumental City.
	A FARMER'S wife in Animosa, Iowa, be-
ing exasparated at the tardiness of the fire
in the kitchen stove about dinner time, the
other day, applied the great American obit-
uary promoter. She immediately retired
through the west window, while the whole
house was aglow with the light and redo-
lent with the fumes of the burning oil.
Her show of wisdom was no credit to "the
sex," though an angry man might have com-
mitted just as foolish an act.
	THE young Empress of Japan, Haruko,
who recently set her people the example of
letting her wifely eyebrows grow and her
wifely teeth remain white, now appears in
public, visits schools, encourages teachers
and scholars in the capital, and shows her
"divinity" in a manner not very different
from the divine ladies of other lands. She
is eminently a fitting spouse for the brilliant
and progressive Mikado.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	MR. Alexander Mitchel, M. C., from Wis-
consin, is reputed to be worth $16,000,000.
	The Choctaws and Cherokees of Indian
Territory raised 5,000 bales of cotton last
season.
	THE Khedive of Egypt paid £40,000 as
the cost of Sir Samuel Baker's African ex-
pedition.
	REVERDY Johnson has won his $5,000 fee
case against the Baltimore and Ohio Rail-
road Company.
	According to returns and estimates, the
number of sheep in France and in England
is about equal—35,000,000 in each.
	COLORADO, which had not a mile of rail-
road less than five years ago, has now ten
lines, having a total length of 668 miles.
	According to the last returns the aggre-
gate income of the English life insurance
offices is $77,000,000; their total accumula-
ted funds amount to $560,000,000, and the
policies in force represent nearly $1,750,000,
000.
	MRS. C. W. Haskins has laid the "corner
stone" of the Orphan Girls' Free Home, at
385 Warren avenue, Chicago where she pro-
poses to take young girls of from 12 to 15
years of age, and provide for them a home,
where education and industry may save
them from destitution and sin.
	A CONNECTICUT school boy (H. L. Andrews)
is the inventor and owner of some half doz-
en patents on school desks and ink wells, in
addition to the "Patent Gothic School Desk
and seat," and the "Triumph Desk and
seat," which are said to be unequalled by
any school desks ever made. More than
three quarters of a million of these desks
have been sold.


COMET'S TAILS.—A paper was read before
the Hackney, England, Scientific Associa-
tion recently by Mr. J. A. Reeves, advancing
an entirely new theory with regard to com-
ets. By the use of diagrams, he showed
that the part of the comet termed the tail
being always in a direction from the sun, and
therefore as often in advance of, as behind
the nucleus, is not really a tail. That as
comets are transparent, and all matter is
known to be either solid, liquid, or gaseous,
comets must be the latter, for solids and
liquids are opaque. That the only known
power by which this gaseous matter can be
held together, is gravity, which must nec-
essarily have a centre, and every part of the
body being free to move, resolves itself into
a sphere, the centre of which is in many
cases exceedingly dense, gradually thinner
towards the circumference. That the rays
of the sun are refracted in their passage
through this spherical comet, thus illumi-
nating the portion beyond the centre or nu-
cleus, which illumination forms the tail.
Mr. Reeves then explained how the various
and peculiar phenomena of comets arise;
and that they are entirely in accordance with
the universal laws of nature.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			     NATURE.
	Thou, beauteous Nature, art my worthy them:
But language fails me when I sing thy praise:
My soul is full—it has no words to tell
How, at thy blessed shrine I find a God.
What rapture swells my heart and thrills my veins
With admiration when on thee I gaze!
For in thy beauties, ever new and strange,
And wonderful, my God, I can discern—
In every leaf and flower and clinging vine,
In running brook and rill, my God I see:
In winds that moan and wail—in thunder peals—
In ocean's angry waves, I hear His voice.
So in the zephyrs, with their soft embrace
And balmy breath of Spring, I feel Him near.

	In flowery vales, in mountains, glens and streams—
In rugged rocks, and caves, and waving trees;
In sunset scenes, and ever varying skies,
Each day, new beauties live, to charm my sight.
Whatever changing garb thou e'er might don,
I only love thee Nature, more and more.

	Roll on, ye thunders, and ye lightnings flash—
Break o'er thy crags, O sea—ye winds moan on:
Ye cannot strike one pang of trembling dread
Through this fond heart of mine, that knows no fear;
For I love God, and trust his love for me.
He may chastise, but yet, I still, shall feel,
'Twas rightly done—"He doeth all things well."

	O Nature that with thee, I more could dwell,
To keep my soul from earthly dross and sin;
That I might thus be bless'd and purified
And God, my Father, ne'er forget, or grieve;
And everywhere I chance to turn my eyes,
In all His glorious works, behold my God.
S. L. City.							J. E. D.


R. S. REPORTS.

	From Springville, April 20th, 1874
	Our Society has enjoyed several pleasing
and instructive meetings during Sister Z.
D. Young's visit. We appreciate her kind
words of counsel and comfort, which will be
long remembered. We have organized a
school to teach the young girls plain and
fancy needle-work, knitting, chrochet, em-
broidery, &c., articles made to be sold in the
Relief Society's Co-operative Store; the
profits derived therefrom, to enlarge the
Society’s Funds for the benefit of the sick
and the needy.
	Cynthia Clyde, President,
	Hannah Harrison,
	Mary Ann Royland,	Counselors,
	Hannah Carter, Secretary,
	Sarah L. Mendenhall, Treasurer.
			EPHRAIM, April 26th 1874.

Editor Exponent:—
	The Ephraim Branch Relief Society held
its yearly meeting on Thursday, April 2nd.
The transactions of the year were reviewed,
Secretary’s and Treasurer’s reports read,
showing the Society to be in a prosperous
condition. This branch of the Relief So-
cieties was organized on the first of April,
1869. Since which time, the receipts have
been as follows:
For the year ending April 1st, 1870, $443.40
	"		"	April 1st, 1871,   361.18
	"		"	April 1st, 1872, 1085.06
	"		"	April 1st, 1873, 1033.05
	"		"	April 1st, 1874, 1216.95
Exclusive of this, are the profits obtained
from the Sunday Eggs which are devoted
to gathering the poor from Scandinavia;
amounting to....................................$1328.90
Making a total of..............................$5468.64
The sisters have also donated 138lbs of
Cheese, value $34.50, butter, eggs, &c.,
amounting to $50 to assist in building the
St. George Temple; and purchased a Sacra-
mental Service which cost $114.
	   AGNES S. ARMSTRONG, Secretary.


A SINGULAR FACT.—To-day will be yes-
terday to-morrow.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	SOUTH COTTONWOOD, April 21st, 1874.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:—
	The Lord said he would help them that
would help themselves. So I have put faith
enough in Him to try and write a little. I
think by trying to say something to my sis-
ters through our EXPONENT, I shall be blest,
and given knowledge and light, that I may
be able to give a little advice, or say some-
thing that will be of use to some one. When
we get upon our feet to bear testimony, in a
meeting, we feel incapable of saying any-
thing that will do good. I believe that is
the very reason why we can not say some-
thing that will be of benefit; but if we will
put our faith in God and cultivate the gifts
which He has given us, we may become
good speakers and perhaps good writers. If
we truly trust in God, whatever we ask
Him for, with a righteous desire He will
grant. It is right for us to seek to build
each other up, and try to instruct each other.
	God bless all who seek to keep His laws.
							E. E. D.


For the EXPONENT.
		"MAN, KNOW THYSELF."

	There are many people who are very ig-
norant of that injunction, “Know thyself.”
I love the study of nature, for it leads to na-
ture’s God. No study is to me more inter-
esting than that sublime one, the machinery
of the human system. So complicated, so
ingeniously fitted up, as a tabernacle for the
spirit to dwell in! This is the place for the
immortal spirit to inhabit while preparing
for those higher regions, where knowledge
is gained without so much laborious study,
and every branch is learned so perfectly and
so easily that it does not take years to ac-
complish almost nothing, as it does here.
Still, I am thankful for what little I have
learned. And daily, as I grow older, I
thirst more and more after knowledge.
There is no study more interesting to me or
more beneficial to every one, than that of
Physiology, which teaches of man, the mas-
ter piece of creation and the likeness of the
Deity. It was what I learned of this study,
when a girl, over forty years ago, that has
kept me from doing things that would offend
that great Architect who framed this case-
ment of flesh and bones, which baffles hu-
man skill and ingenuity. We should learn
of what elements these bodies are composed,
how they are nourished, preserved and con-
tinually built up. And we should consider
well the importance of properly understand-
ing, in order that we may properly provide
for these living temples of living souls, than
which there is nothing greater or grander,
save the Creator himself.
	The world of nature is divided into three
kingdoms—the animal, the vegetable and
the mineral. All within these three king-
doms is again divided into, either living
bodies or dead matter. A mineral has
neither life nor fixed arrangement. A vege-
table has both; so also has an animal, and
in a still higher degree. This distinction
between animal and vegetable structures,
and mineral substances—between living
bodies and masses of dead matter, is, in
some instances not very easy to trace, and
yet it is most fixed and certain. For a long
time coral was thought to be nothing more
than a mineral; but when on examination,
it was found to be a growth, it was taken
from the mineral into the vegetable king-
dom and still more recently, having been
discovered to be a congeries of animals, it
has been recognized as belonging to the ani-
mal kingdom. The human body is made
up of hard or solid parts, such as the bones
and the teeth; of soft parts, such as the
muscles, the brain, &c., and of fluids, such
as the blood. It is said that God formed
man out of the dust of the earth: and won-
derfully do the minute atoms of the earth’s
surface most perfectly correspond with the
materials of which the human body is com-
posed. In no living body has any element
yet been found which does not also exist in
the very matter on which we tread. Else
how could man return to his mother earth,
from which he was taken? The earth was
created first, as an habitation for man. Not
immediately, but gradually was it fitted up
for man’s dwelling place and when the
time came for the creation of man, God
caused that he should partake of the nature
of the earth, that there might exist a rela-
tionship between the earth and the man
whom He designed for its inhabitant. This
subject is an exhaustless one, and to me, one
of unspeakable interest; and I shall be
pleased to contribute some of my thoughts
concerning it from time to time, hoping
that by so doing I may, at least draw the
attention of some, and awaken an inter-
est for a most useful study which I consider
has been very much neglected. 
                               M. A. E. WATMOUGH
Salt Lake City.


HOME TALK

	"What ponderous thought is occupying
your mind now, sweet one?" asked a fond
mother of her young daughter.
	"I was trying to think, mother, why it is
that my head feels so comfortable, so per-
fectly at ease in aunt Wells' square room.
It cannot be her affectionate influence over
me, because there are many friends I love
as well as I do her. Can you tell me what it
can be mother?"
	"Perhaps I can. Did you ever notice
that no two windows in your aunt's room
are opposite each other? Thus the rays of
light which illuminate it, through not be-
ing direct are not so powerful and oppres-
sive to the brain as they would be other-
wise.
	"Oh! how plain that seems to me now
mother. But why are not all houses so 
built?"
	"Perhaps, my child, the present style of
architecture governs in this matter. But
look still further. In the summer-time
when our systems yield to the enervating
influence of the heated atmosphere, how
kindly has our Heavenly Father arranged,
that solid or dark colors are immediately
around us, for the well-being of our eyes.
while as we raise them to look into the dis-
tance, lighter shades are blended, that our
sight may be strengthened as well as inter-
ested by looking through an equalized at-
mosphere."
	"I see ma, and that is why you always pre-
fer to have light curtains across our win-
dows, so that the room may  not be shaded
above and light below."
	"Exactly so my child. Now learn from
this to arrange even your bedroom with
thought and design. I see our friends are
coming now, but we will talk again some-
time.				AZURETTA.
	Washington, April, 1874.


﻿A MAN out West brags that all the furni-
ture and flooring in his house is made
of live oak, but his wife, who does the hard
work of the house, says it’s nothing but
scrub oak.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DRESS.

A YOUNG LADY'S FIRST ATTEMPT AT ESSAY
                           WRITING.

	I have chosen this subject, not that it is
an uncommon one, but because I think it a
fit one for young ladies to consider. I will
notice the unreasonable extravagance of the
lady who “alamode,” wears costly silk
dresses either trailing upon the ground or
else trimmed up to the waist with ruffles,
laces, velvet, fringe &c. Then in addition
to this, the false curls, frizzes, puffs and
other varieties of unreal and often shabby
looking hair; the stylish hat or the “love of
a bonnet” from Paris; the powder to make
the face nice and white, and the paint to
give color; the tight lacing to make the waist
small and round; and the little shoes, ever
so much smaller than the feet which are
crowded into them.—you know it requires
all these things to complete the toilet of a
fashionable lady. And often, much more
than this is necessary to satisfy her ambition
to attract attention and “out shine” her asso-
ciates in regard to dress.
And the general excuse for such folly is,
“Oh! one might as well be out of the world
as out of fashion.” I think they might bet-
ter all be out of the world than to follow
such ridiculous and injurious customs.
	Another lame excuse that some of them
make for their vanity, is, that they do so to
please the gentlemen. Well, I would let
the gentlemen be displeased with me and
my ways before I would be such a slave to
fashion. But if some of them could hear
the "side speeches" made about them by
the very gentlemen they strive so hard to
please, they would want to hide themselves,
and never again be guilty of such foolish-
ness.
	Were I a man and wanting a wife, I would
wait and search long and patiently to find a
good, plain hearted girl who was content
with being dressed neatly and sensibly be-
fore I would marry one of these butteflies
of fashion. It is a real fact that “beauty is
but skin deep;” and after all, a beautiful
soul is worth more than all the fine clothing
or beautiful faces in the world. There is
another trite saying which I think a very
true and logical one. It is simply this,
“Pretty is that pretty does."
	I do not wish my young lady friends to
misunderstand me. I would not like to see
girls of sixteen or twenty trying to appear
like women of forty or fifty, by making their
dresses to look odd and old fashioned.
Though even that would be better than en-
couraging the uncomfortable modes belong-
ing to the present fashions for ladie’s dress.
I think girls should cultivate good taste and
dress neatly and modestly, taking some
pains to wear whatever they find most be-
coming to them, regardless of prevailing
fashions.
	Now, if I may venture, I will say a few
words to the gentlemen. I can make little
distinction between old and young, for in
such respects as I shall allude to, age seems
to make but little difference.
	For instance, a coat must be of the latest
style, of course, and made by a fashionable
tailor and the material must be of broad
cloth or some other imported goods.—Once
some of them at least, were glad to get
homespun.—The shirt must be just so nice,
without a crease or a spot, and finished off
with a satin gloss. Ten cents is nothing to
pay for having a pair of boots polished in
the finest order. Oh no! But I think it
would be more to the gentleman’s credit if
he did it himself. And I know something
else about them, many of them pinch and
cripple their feet just as badly as the ladies
do, to make them look small and genteel.
Then the hair must be cut and perfumed in
just such a manner, and topped off with the
very latest style of hats. And Oh! that
darling mustache how tenderly and carefully
must that be caressed and petted!
	I do not pretend to say the men either
young or old, are all like this. But too
many of them are; and I believe that such
are the very ones that have so much to say
about the absurdities of the fashions and
the extravagance of women. They don’t
see that there is anything of more impor-
tance for them to trouble their poor, empty
heads over, after they have made them-
selves to look as exquisitely "beautiful" as
possible.
	I needn't say, sensible girls will never al-
low themselves to be “taken in” by any
such dandified fop, because everyone knows
that.—I hope I haven’t offended any one,
or intruded too long on any person’s time.
                                  MISS MARY D.
14th Ward.


INEXPENSIVE HAPPINESS.

	The most perfect home I ever saw was in
a little house into the sweet incense of whose
fires went no costly things. A thousand
dollars served for a year’s living of father,
mother and three children. But the moth-
er was the creator of the home; her relation
with her children was the most beautiful I
have ever seen; even a dull and common-
place man was lifted up and enabled to do
good work for souls by the atmosphere
which this woman created; every inmate of
her house involuntarily looked into her face
for the key-note of the day; and it always
rang clear. From the rose-bud or clover-
leaf; which, in spite of her hard house-work,
she always found time to put by our plates
at breakfast, down to the very story she had
on hand to be read in the evening, there
was no intermission of her influence. She
has always been and always will be my ideal
of a mother, wife, home-maker. If to her
quick brain, loving heart and exquisite face
had been added the appliance of wealth and
the enlargements of a wider culture, here
would have been the ideal of home. As it
was, it was the best I have ever seen.—Hel-
en Hunt.


MRS. J. A. Duniway edits and is the pro-
prietor of the "New Northwest," a weekly
newspaper published at Portland, Oregon.
She earned the money, on a sewing ma-
chine, with which to purchase the material
for the paper, and she raised the boys who
do the work of the office. She is at present
lecturing on the subject of temperance, and
she shows herself to be a woman of good
strong sense, pleasing all who hear her.


DIVERSIONS.

	THE dress circle—Crinoline.
	TO curb a fast young man—Bridal him.
	A. T. KETTLE is the only singer who never
had a cold.
	A SHOE dealer advertises "Woman's
Rights and Lefts."
	THE woman question—How shall I have
my summer suit made?
	"HUSBAND, where shall I get the ticking
for our new feather bed?" "Any place
where you can get the tick."
	HOW long ought a lady's crinoline to be?
Not too much above two feet.
	Everybody complains of his gas bill,
yet it is a light expense.
	THE ladies are having ruff times since the
Elizabethan fashion in neck gear has been
introduced.
	WHY does the eye resemble a schoolmas-
ter in the act of flogging? It has a pupil
under the lash.
	A MAN who had been to a crowded ball
said he was fond of rings on his fingers, but
he didn't like belles on his toes.
	IN Mississippi, when one is insulted, in-
stead of threatening to "put a head" on the 
offender, it is a stylish thing to say, "I'll
put your nose in a parenthesis."
	A WESTERN bridegroom sent an account
of his wedding to the village paper, and
was mortified when "the wedding trous-
seau" came out in print "the wedding
trousers."
	"YOU Swiss always fight for money; we
French for honor," said a pompous French
officer to a Swiss gentleman. "Yes," re-
sponded the latter; "it is natural for people
to fight for that which they most need."
	DURING Curran's last illness, his physician
remarked one morning that he seemed to
cough with more difficulty, he replied, "that
is surprising, as I have been practicing all
night."
	THE best definition to scandal ever given,
according to Arthur Helps, was that of a
little girl who described it thus: Nobody
does nothing, and everybody goes on tell-
ing it everywhere." That is better than
a dictionary.
	A JUDGE reprimanding a criminal, called
him a scoundrel. The prisoner replied;
"Sir, I am not as big a scoundrel as your
Honor"—here the culprit stopped, but fi-
nally added—"takes me to be." "Put your
words closer together," said the Judge.
	A MAN in Ohio was acquitted of a murder
on a plea of insanity, a year ago, and secured
his lawyers by giving them a mortgage on
his farm. He repudiates the mortgage now,
as he was insane when he made it, accord-
ing to the showing of the same lawyers.
	A YOUNG lady at Council Bluffs, being in-
formed by her "feller" that he intended to
cease his attentions, cowhided him around
the room, and as he was leaving, told him
that would teach him to be more careful for
the future  not to trifle with a gentle and
loving heart.
	YOUNG Simpson beginning the study of
natural philosophy, became fond of applying
technical names to common objects to im-
press hearers with a sense of his profound
knowledge, and tried the game with his 
father one evening. When he mentioned
to him that he had swallowed some "marine
acephalous molusks" the old man was much
alarmed, and he suddenly seized Simpson
and threw him to the floor, and held him
and screamed for help. When Mrs. Simpson
came with some warm water, and the hired
man rushed in with a garden pump, they
forced half a gallon of water down Simp-
son's throat, and then held him by the heels
over the edge of the porch and shook him,
while the old man said "if we don't get them
things out of William he will be pizened."
And when they were out, and William ex-
plained that the articles alluded to were
merely oysters, then his father fondled him
for half an hour with a trunk strap for scar-
ing the family.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months,$1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office  hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMEN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, May 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	Boydtown, Va., has a colored postmistress,
her name is Mary E. Jones......Mrs. Eliza-
beth C. Norris is Assistant Register of
Deeds in Barnstable......It is estimated that
the Patrons of Husbandry saved nearly six
million dollars by co-operative purchasing
last year......Mr. R. B. Forbes suggests calm-
ing the sea by means of oil; the idea is said
to have originated with Benjamin Franklin,
who saw the effects produced by the acci-
dental upsetting of a barrel of oil while
crossing the Atlantic......Mark Miller, an
agricultural Editor, who was the founder of
the "Wisconsin Farmer," and afterwards
published the "Northwestern Farmer," re-
cently died at his home near Des Moines....
Ten or twelve young men in Louisiana have
placed themselves under the supervision of
a competent man, and have secured land,
teams, seed and implements necessary for
carrying on the farming business, which
they intend to learn......A proposition has
been made for the construction of a railway
from Naples to the crater of Mount Versu-
vius.........In California, Chinamen are now
employed as draught animals.........Joseph
Arch contemplates coming to America in
June......It is reported that at and around
Hernando, Miss., it rained brimstone the
other day.........A history of American cur-
rency is soon to be published by Prof. Sum-
ner, of Yale College......Only three dollars'
worth of damage was done last year by the
well behaved students of Michigan College
......Patrons of Husbandry, it is said, are dis-
approved of by the Archbishop of San Fran-
cisco, and the sentiment is reciprocated......
Ex-Governor Claflin of Massachusetts is go-
ing into the shoe manufacturing business in
New Hampshire......The French Prince Im-
perial is said to look like his mother.........
Governor Ames of Mississippi has become
popular for having dispensed with wine at
his late reception......The wig which Lord
Brougham wore when he was Lord Chan-
cellor of England, was found among the
many rare curiosities owned by the late
Senator Sumner......The ex-King of Naples
lost with his throne, the possession of four 
splendid palaces, and now he lives in a hum-
ble dwelling near Paris......Texas, with all
her cattle, sells milk at one dollar a gallon
......Kansas prints one hundred and eighteen
newspapers...........A Wisconsin dairyman
wants to learn something about this "crema-
tion" (burning of the dead) business,......A
new disease called "the pink eye," has ap-
peared among the horses in New York and
Brooklin. The discharge in this case is from
the eyes instead of the nose as in cases of
epizootic, and for a time the horse afflicted
is quite blind......A report from the Russian
Co-operative Manufacturing and Trade So-
ciety, is in favor of the construction of a 
railroad between Russia and China,
through Siberia.


﻿PLEA FOR PICTURES.

	"Too many pictures?”  No, no;—who-
ever you are making such an assertion, I
meet it with a most emphatic no, sir! If
you had a pair of bright eyes in your house-
hold, like the ones that make sunshine in
mine, and a two-year-old voice full of baby
sweetness asking “So pitters, mamma,”—
if the kitten in your Rural bore such un-
mistakable marks of petting and smoothing
the wrong way, by fat dimpled fingers, as
mine does,—and the little baby standing on
the table (in the paper of Jan. 10th,) had
his dress rumpled and his pouting lips
somewhat moistened as results of an every-


day hugging and kissing,—I don't believe
you could protest against the pictures, my
friend; for to me, at least, it is well worth
the price of the paper to watch the brown
eyes sparkle and see the eagerness with
which these same pictures are greeted by
the little wide-awake baby of our house-
hold.
	I suppose you wouldn't let the children
have your papers for fear they would soil 
them. Well, I let my little baby girl look
at them all she likes. That is, I show the
pictures to her and talk about them, and she
loves and pets them as if they were really
real. The only harm my papers receive is
a slightly worn look where her favorite pic-
tures are. And this—oh! how precious
would these finger marks be to me should
those dear little fingers be laid away lifeless
and still, where I never more on earth
could feel their velvet touch.
	I think it is no harm to encourage a love
of pictures in a child—pretty, innocent pic-
tures. You will be repaid, believe me, in
days to come, if you live, by seeing the lit-
tle minds grow up with a refined, cultivated
taste for all that is beautiful and good, if in
their early years you call forth such a taste
by teaching them to love what is pretty and
pure in nature and elsewhere.—R. N. Y.


CONFERENCE ITEMS.

	Another general Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been
held in this city; and again, as ever before on
such occasions, has the Spirit and power of God
been richly poured out upon His Servants in
their endeavors to prompt, stimulate and in-
struct the people.
	From the many timely subjects treated upon
by the various speakers during the Conference,
we design selecting and connecting a few, which
may be considered of most importance to be
kept in memory, hoping that some good to our
readers may be the result. If not to those who
enjoyed the great privilege of listening to the
teachings and exhortations given, at least to
some who were not so highly favored.
	The grand movement for an increase of unity
in the church, was, as a matter of course, the
principal theme discoursed upon. At the open-
ing of the Conference, President Young made
a request that the Elders who should speak
would give expression to their feelings and
views concerning the “United Order.” And
much which was calculated to inform the minds
and strengthen the confidence of the Saints up-
on this subject, was spoken.
	Allusions were made to the Latter-day Work
in early times; when the Lord gave the law
and would have instituted among His Saints
the Order of Zion. But while some could com-
prehend the benefits and blessings which would
certainly prove the results of a unity of pur-
pose and action among a virtuous and indus-
trious people, others were so blinded by their
own selfish views, and their fears of loosing
property which the Lord had loaned them—for
no one was really the owner, though he might
be the possessor of wealth—that the Order could
not then be established. But now, it WOULD
be established.  Continual instructions and ex-
hortations had been offered to the Saints pre-
paratory to their receiving this principle. They
had gone as far as it was possible for them to go
in patterning after the vain fashions of the
world, and still stand as a distinct community.
Now, those who were desirous of serving God,
must turn round and pursue a different course.
Babylon would fall, and the Saints must be
prepared for it by having become a self-sustain-
ing people. Nearly every necessity of life could
be produced in Utah and, as for many of the
luxuries to which the people had become hab-
ituated, they would be healthier and happier
without them. One great object to be attained
was to get the people to understand the laws of
life, and the principles by which health and
longevity may be promoted. 
	There were among the Latter-day Saints, just
as good business men and mechanics of all kinds
as could be found in any part of the world. It was
not good, therefore, for such a community
to import much and export comparatively
nothing. It should produce and manufacture
more than it could consume, that it might have
something to sell, instead of buying. To
bring school teachers from other places are quite
unnecessary, as there were young people here,
who were naturally adapted to that calling; and
when boys and girls evinced a love of order and
study, and also displayed a power for governing
others in a proper manner, they were the ones
to select for the future school teachers. Books
could also be made by the people of the Terri-
tory, which would be far more advantageous to
them than sending for those manufactured
abroad. The work of type setting, and much
connected with the printing business belonged
to the women; and it was the design of the au-
thorities of the Church, to have an extensive
establishment prepared for the purpose of giv-
ing employment to women and girls who were
desirous of learning and following such pur-
suits. The efforts which the ladies had already
made in that direction, as well as the great
amount of good they had accomplished in ma-
ny other respects, were highly commendable,
and significant of what they were likely to per-
form when in possession of greater advantages
and opportunities. The experience of the past
also plainly showed that without the co opera-
tion of the women of a community, the pro-
gress of the men would amount to but very lit-
tle.
	Great willingness was unanimously manifes-
ted on the part of the people, to comply with
the counsels given and the requisitions made.
	The music of the Tabernacle choir during
Conference was appropriately chosen, well per-
formed, and in all respects, very excellent.
	At the close of the Conference, which con-
tinued four days, President Young thanked the
musicians for the part they had taken, the El-
ders who had prayed, those who had spoken,
also the people for coming together, and blest
them all. After which he adjourned the Con-
ference till the 6th day of next October.


﻿TO FRIENDS AND SUBSCRIBERS.

	We designed giving in this issue a new list
of club and subscription rates for the coming
year. But not having yet been able to com-
plete some desirable arrangements, we are
obliged to defer it until our next number. Our
terms will therefore continue the same as before
until further notice.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE WOULD call attention to L. L. D.'s "Talk
with the Sisters," which appears in this issue.
Read it Sisters, many of you are needing such
hints as are therein given, and it contains good
food for every intelligent mind.

	WITH THE present issue, closes the second
volume of the EXPONENT. To all who have
evinced a kindly concern in its behalf, during
its two years' progress, we tender grateful ac-
knowledgments, and extend a cordial invita-
tion to all lovers of truth and co-workers in the
cause of progression, to use their influence to
aid in its future support and augmentation.

	DURING THE past week, we have been favored
with calls from many friends, who, coming in-
to the city from different parts of the Territory
to attend the adjourned Conference, have man-
ifested their interest in the EXPONENT by "drop-
ping in" to speak words of good cheer; and, in
some instances, to offer even more substantial
and necessary avails than pleasant words. We
return them, one and all, our thanks and kind
wishes.

	THE FIREMEN had a torchlight procession on
the evening of the 8th. They numbered about
two hundred, and appeared in full uniform,
with banners, a band of music, engine, hose
and hook and ladder carriages gaily decorated,
and the occasional firing off of rockets. The
effect was enhanced by a dark, cloudy sky, and
altogether they formed a picturesque and ani-
mated scene.

	FROM THE annual report of the Superintend-
ent of St. Mark's Hospital, we learn that 353
patients have been received during the year,
and the total cost for each one has averaged
about $1.28 a day. Thirty patients who were
destitute had been treated without charge.
The Hospital began the year free from any
permanent indebtedness, but needs more means
and a more commodious building to properly
meet the demands that are made on it. We
think the subject a worthy one for the consid-
eration of the benevolent.

	THE PEOPLE of Salt Lake have lately had
the opportunity of seeing and hearing the fa-
mous lecturer, the wonderful woman, Victoria
C. Woodhull. Whatever her former life may
have been, or wherever herself or her senti-
ments may be met with reproach or ridicule,
there was nothing in her appearance, or in any-
thing she uttered in the Salt Lake Theatre, to
justify such a reception. She simply appeared
and spoke there, as a plain spoken, earnest,
honest woman, and was as such received. Our
want of space precludes further notice.


FROM KANAB.

				May 2nd, 1874.

MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:--
	To-day has been one of those beautiful
Sabbath days that comes to us once in a 
while, so pleasant and peaceful—when the
Spirit and presence of God are manifest near
us. I have not been to meeting, but have
kept house and let all the girls go. I have
been reading, and I have had a little time
of quiet to think.
	Brother John R. Young is our President
of the "Family Order" here; he has moved
his family to this place; He is now out to
help the brethren over the river. We feel
very anxious about them; the water is fast
rising, so if they can only get over the river,
on this side, there will not be much danger
from the Indians for a while; and, in the


mean time I hope we shall become stronger
here. I intend writing every week, that
you may know how we get along.
	My eldest daughter is helping in the
school. Just now she is sitting before me
at the table reading, and such a lovely pic-
ture! She has her hair in curls, and to my
mother heart she is beautiful. My girls are
so great a comfort to me all the time! In
what shall a mother find joy and rejoicing
if not in her children?
	I have been hoping that the mail would
bring me a letter from mother, but it did
not. I look so anxiously for letters every
mail, and when none comes, the weeks seem
very long.
	If I could write such a letter as you can,
I would write you a nice long one; but this
I know you will receive as I send it—in love.
From your affectionate cousin
						H. M. B.


MARK OF A GENTLEMAN.

	No man is a gentleman who without prov-
ocation, would treat with incivility the
humblest of his species. It is vulgarity for
which no accomplishment of dress or ad-
dress can ever atone. Show us the man
who desires to make all around him happy,
and give cause of offense to no one, and we
will show you a true gentleman, though he
may never have worn a suit of broadcloth,
nor ever heard of a lexicon. We are proud
to say, for the honor of our species, there
are men in every throb of whose hearts is a
solicitude for the welfare of mankind, and
whose every breath is perfumed with kind-
ness.—Selected


﻿WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.

	Our veteran Bryant—we will not say Nestor of
the poets, for classical as Mr. Bryant’s tastes are,
he must be heartily tired of this comparison—is
now in his eightieth year, but is scarcely inferior in
physical vigor to what he was in his prime. The
other day we watched him walking down Broad-
way, with a step as firm as that of a young man,
and with a pace that outstripped every one else on
the pavement. The poet, with his slight, little
figure, the mass of white hair that fell upon his
shoulders, and the white beard that swept his
breast, stalked on, a most picturesque figure, passing
old men and young men, slow walkers and swift
walkers, without the slightest indication of age,
infirmity, or fatigue. We watched him until he
was lost in the crowd, but to the last we saw him
keep up his active step, overtaking and passing not
merely the slow loiterers, but all the hurrying busi-
ness people of our thronged highway.—“Apple-
ton’s Journal.''


THE LAW OF LOVE.—In 1647, the General
Court of Massachusetts enacted, that if any
young man attempted to address any young
woman without the consent of her parents,
or, in case of their absence, of a neighbour-
ing magistrate of the County Court, he
should be fined five pounds for the first of-
fense, ten pounds for the second, and impris-
onment for the third. In 1660 Captain Daniel
Blake was fined the first named sum, but
let off for four pounds, conditionally, “for
making love to Edmund Bridg’s daughter,
without her parents consent.”


FLOWERS.

	NO man is free who does not command
himself.
	THE tongue,--the latch-key that lets out
the mind.
	HE is rich whose income is more than
his expenses.
	THE trials of life are the tests which as-
certain how much gold is in us.
	POETRY.—The music of thought convey-
ed to us in the music of language.
	NONE should despair; God can help them.
None should presume; God can cross them.
	WHAT men want is not talent, but purpose;
in other words,not the power to achieve, but
the will to labor.
	ALL men can perceive the vanity of past
pleasures; but how few discover the vanity
of those which are to come.
	MANY a child goes astray not because
there is want of prayer or virtue at home,
but simply because home lacks sunshine.
	THE Hindoos extend their hospitality to
their enemies, saying: “The tree does not
withdraw its shade even from the wood cut-
ter."
	THE spectacle of a field of battle after the
combat, should be sufficient to inspire prin-
ces with the love of peace, and the horror of 
war.—Napoleon.
	LORD Chatham, who was almost as re-
markable for his mannners as for his elo- 
quence, defined good breeding to be “Be-
nevolence in the little daily occurrences of 
life."
	THE chief secret of comfort lies in not
suffering trifles to vex one, and in prudently
cultivating an undergrowth of small plea-
sures, since very few great ones are let on 
 ong leases.
	THE last, best fruits which come to late
perfection, even in the kindliest soul, is 
tenderness toward the hard, forbearance to- 
wards the unforbearing, warmth of heart 
towards the cold, philanthropy towards the
misanthropic.—Jean Paul.
	AVARICE has been termed “the vice of
little minds.” And so it is, in the sense in
which it is generally understood. But
though the vice of a little mind, it is by no
means a little vice, but one of the largest,
as it is insatiable in its desire and unlimited
in its cravings.
	A PERSON is not worth anything that has 
not had troubles. You cannot subdue self-
ishness without a struggle.  You cannot re-
strain pride without a conflict. You cannot
expect to go through life without bearing
burdens. But you are going to have help 
under circumstances that will redeem you
from these things. You are going to expe- 
rience more victories than defeats. Your 
suffering will be only here and there—little
spots in a whole field of peace and joy.


MARK TWAIN ON THE SANDWICH ISLANDS.
—"you cannot find as much climate bunched
together anywhere in the world as you can
on the Sandwich Islands. You take a ther-
mometer and mark on it where you want
the mercury to stand permanently, with
the privilege of ranging five or six degrees
at long intervals, and you may select the
spot that will exactly accommodate you.
At Honolulu it is always about 82 deg.; five
hundred feet up the mountain yon can have
it 70 der.; go higher, and your mercury falls
to the exact point you like. If you want
snow and ice forever, go to the summit of
Mauna Kea; if you want it hot, go to Lah-
aina, where they do not hang the thermom-
eter on a nail, because the solder might
melt.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿BETTER THAN GOLD.

		  SELECTED.

Better than grandeur, better than gold,
Than rank and titles a thousand fold,
Is a healthy body, a mind at ease,
And simple pleasures that always please;
A heart that can feel for a neighbor’s woe.
And share his joy with a genial glow,
With sympathies large enough to enfold
All men as brothers, is better than gold.

Better than gold is a conscience clear,
Though toiling for bread in a humble sphere,
Doubly blest with content and health,
Untried by the lusts of cares and wealth;
Lowly living and lofty thought
Adorn and ennable a poor man’s cot,
For mind and morals in Nature’s plan
Are the genuine test of a gentleman.

Better than gold is the sweet repose
Of the sons of toll when their labors close;
Better than gold is the poor man's sleep:
And the balm that dro[-]s on his slumbers deep,
Brings sleeping draughts to the downy bed
Where luxury pillows his aching head;
His simple opiate labor deems
A shorter road to the land of dreams.

Better than gold is a thinking mind,
That in the realms of books can find
A treasure surpassing Australian ore,
And live with the great and good of yore,
The sage’s lore and the poet’s lay, 
The glories of empire’s passed away,
The world's great drama will thus enfold. 
And yield a pleasure better than gold.

Better than gold is a peaceful home,
Where all the fireside charities come,  
The shrine of love, the haven of life, 
Hallowed by mother, or sister, or wife,
However humble the home may be,
Or tried with sorrow by heaven’s decree,
the blessings that never were bought or sold, 
And, centre there, are better than gold.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Keep the birthdays.—They belong exclusively to
and are treasured among the sweetest memori[-]s of
home. Do not let anything prevent some token,
be it ever so slight, to show that it is remembered.
Birthdays are great events to children. For one
day they feel they are heroes. The special pud-
dings are made expressly for them; a new jacket,
trousers with pockets, or the first pair of boots is
donned, and big brothers and sisters sink into in-
significance beside "little Charley" who is "six to-
day," and is soon "going to be a man." Fathers
who have half a dozen little ones to care for are apt
to forget birthdays—they come too often. Some-
times they are too busy, and sometimes they are
bothered; but if they only knew how much
such souvenirs are cherished by their children years
afterwards, when, away from the hearthstone, they
have none to remind them that they have added
one more year to the perhaps weary round of life,
or to wish them, in the good, old-fashioned phrase,
"many happy returns of their birthday," they
would never permit any cause to step in between
them and a parent's privilege.—R. N. Y.
	How to Restore old Writing.—Writing which
has become illegible by age, may be restored by
moistening it with an iufnsion of galls.
	A Good Bread Pudding.—Take five slices of
dry bread or their equivalent in broken pieces,
pour over them three quarts of sweet milk, let them
soak, then add four or five eggs, beaten well with
one large’cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, and
spice or nutmeg to suit the taste. Do not crumb
the bread, but just brake the slices in several pieces,
letting them float in the milk.  Bake in a moder-
ately hot oven; the pudding should be nicely brown-
ed, with a rich custard beneath the bread. To be
eaten warm, with no dressing except butter. Very
good cold.
	Here is an excellent recipe for making genuine
erasive soap that will remove grease and stains from
clothing: Two pounds of good castile soap; half a
pound of carbonate of potash, dissolved in half a
pint of hot water. Cut the soap in thin slices,
boil the soap with the potash until it is thick enough
to mold in cakes, also add alcohol, half an ounce;
color with half an ounce of pulverized charcoal.
	Remedy for Earache.—There is scarcely any
ache to which children are subject so bad to bear
and so difficult to cure as the earache; but there is
a remedy never known to fail. Take a bit of cot-
ton batting, put upon it a pinch of black pepper,
gather it up and tie it; dip it in sweet oil and in-
sert in the ear. Put a flannel bandage over the
head to keep it warm. It will give immediate re-
lief.—"Exchange."
	The feet being covered from the view, are less
important to beauty than to comfort. A neat foot
is, nevertheless, a great addition to personal beauty.
The preservation of the feet is so essential to the
daily purposes of life, that every care should be
taken of them. Corns are formed by the harden-
ing of the cuticle under pressure of the shoe.
Loose shoes, by moving and rubbing upon a partic-
ular point, are as apt to produce corns as tight
shoes. There are various remedies: A little sweet
oil rubbed upon the scat of the corn has been
found to check its development. The oil should be
applied after the corn has been pared.
	Oat chaff Beds.—A most soft, comfortable and
wholesome filling for beds or for matrasses can be
procured in most country places by getting a far-
mer to allow oat chaff to be saved. It is soft,
light and elastic, and very sweet. The cost is very
little, only the labor paid to the farmer for the men
saving and sifting it. As oat chaff is rarely used
for cattle food, it is easily obtained. It is so very
light that a slighter kind of bed-tick than is neces-
sary for other kinds of filling is quite sufficient for
oat chaff. Another advantage is that it can be
changed every year with so little cost that it is
within the reach of any one. For children's beds it
is perfectly satisfactory. It is only necessary to
keep a sack or two stuffed full of oat chaff in a dry
place, and then new and fresh filling is at hand to
make a sweet bed, whatever accident may have be-
fallen the cot mattress.


FLORAL HINTS.

	DAHLIAS, as soon as they commence their
growth must be tied to stakes.
	SOW seeds of Sweet-pea, Cypress-vine,
Morning Glory, etc., where a screen is need-
ed and for covering trellises.
	EDGINGS around walks and beds should be
kept neatly cut, and no grass or weeds al-
lowed to grow on the paths.
	SET out Gladiolus, Tiger flower, and Lily
bulbs in rich soil Tuberoses do best if plant-
ed in pots and started in the house before
setting out.
	EVERGREENS succeed best when planted
some time during this month, May. Great
care must be taken not to allow the roots to
dry by exposure to the winds.
	SOW annuals as soon as the ground becomes
warm. Perrennials should be sown in sepa-
rate beds from the annuals. Sow the seeds
of those now coming into flower, as soon as
they are ripe.
	LAWNS should be cut often in order to
keep the surface neat and smooth. If the
grass is not too thick, allow it to remain on
the ground; it will serve as a fertilizer, and
also prevent the sun from drying out the
roots. Shrubs flower better if properly
pruned.
	REMOVE THE FLOWERS.—Lovers of flow-
ers should know that one blossom allowed
to mature or "go to seed," injures the plant
more than a dozen new buds. Cut your
flowers, all of them, before they fade. Adorn
your room with them, put them on your ta-
bles; send boquets to your friends who have
no flowers, or exchange favors with those
who have. All roses, after they have ceased
blooming, should be cut back, that the
strength of the root may go to forming new
roots for next year, and on these bushes not
a seed should be allowed to mature.—Ex.
	RULES FOR JUDGING THE BEST CARN-
TION.—Miller, Abercrombie, Maddock, and 
others have written on the properties re-
quisite to characterize a first-rate Carnation;
but it is to Mr. Glenny, as a standard au-
thority, that we are indebted for concentrat-
ing and improving the rules of his prede-
cessors in floral criticism. From the latter
gentleman's "Standard of Perfection," with
trifling alterations, we extract the following
properties of the Carnation:—
	1. The flower should not be less than two
and a half inches across.
	2. The guard or lower petals, not less than
six in number, must be broad, thick, and
smooth on the outside, free from notch or
serrature on the edge, and lapping over
each other sufficiently to form a circular
rose-like flower: the more perfectly round
the outline the better.
	3. Each layer of petals should be smaller
than the layer immediately under it; there
should not be less than five or six layers of
petals placed regularly; and the flower
should rise in the centre so as to form a
semi-globular shape.
	4. The petals should be stiff, free from
notches, and slightly cupped.
	5. The ground should be pure white, with-
out specks.
	6.The stripes of color should be clear and
distinct, not running into one another, not
confused; but dense, smooth at the edges,
and well-defined.
	7. The colors, whatever they may be,
must be bright and clear; if there be two
colors, the darkest one cannot be too dark,
or form too strong a contrast with the light-
er. With scarlet, the perfection would be a
black; with pink there cannot be too deep a 
crimson; with lilac or light purple, the sec-
ond color cannot be too dark a purple.
	8. If the colors run into the white and
tinge it, or the white is not pure, the fault
is very great, and pouncy spots or specks
are highly objectionable.
	9. The pod of the bloom should be long
and large, to enable the flower to bloom
without bursting it; but this is rare. They
generally require to be tied down about half
way, and the upper part of the calyx opened
down to the tie; yet there are some kinds
which scarcely require any assistance, and
this is a very estimable quality.
	10. Decided superiority of perfume should
obtain the prize, when competing flowers
are in other respects of equal merit.—En-
glish Paper.


DUTCH CLEANLINESS.—If cleanliness can
ever be carried to excess it is in Holland.
The very servants have such caps and ker-
chiefs and aprons and lace, and so beauti-
fully got up, I can compare it to nothing
but a laundress on a pleasure party taking a
days’ wear of her mistress’ best things.
Of course, they have a wash every week-
day, besides the grand one on Saturdays,
when they really wash everything in the
place, except the water. As an instance of
their particularity, at almost every house
there is a sort of double looking-glass out-
side the window, as if for seeing up and
down the street but Frank says it is that
the Dutch ladies may watch, before being at
home to a friend, whether he has dirty boots
or shoes.—“Hood”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A TALK WITH THE SISTERS.

	The Bible severely condemns a "gadding
woman;" and this fact, conjoined with some
others, makes some of our conscientious sis-
ters backward even to attend their Society
meetings. The are not to be blamed for
disliking to be the recipients of so disgusting
a title as "Gadder," but I insist that they
greatly mistake its application.
	Gadding is wandering idly in the neigh-
borhood, with no higher aim than the pur-
suit of gossip; and if any sister attends
gatherings of the sisterhood with this aim
only, she would do as well to remain away.
But I am proud to doubt that any fall so far
short of a realization of their high calling.
	For the benefit of those who deem they
can always spend their time better at 
home, let us discuss the question.
	While we all admit that it is our duty to do
the very best we know, many seem to think
that what we do not know will never be
counted against us. But how will it be if
we are wilfully ignorant? if we purposely
avoid the means of gaining knowledge
either of temporal or spiritual things? Shall
we not then fall under condemnation for our
ignorance? If we fail to cultivate the tal-
ents we possess, shall we not fare as did the
unprofitable servant who hid his talent in
the earth and improved it not?
	Besides the disbursement of charity, it is
the duty of each member of a Society of
sisters to improve herself; and she may be
sure that whatever she gains in vigor of
thought and understanding, happy expres-
sion or self-possession, her children will in-
herit. The mother's looks, ways and forms
of speech are unconsciously copied by her
children, and for their sake it is her duty to
cultivate every worthy attribute of her na-
ture to the utmost extent of harmonious ac-
tion, that she may have the ability to set for
them a copy worthy of imitation.
	If she never undertakes to address sev-
eral persons connectedly, how shall she over-
come the habit of speaking in the fragmen-
tary, unfinished style of the ignorant and
timid? When shall she cease to be morti-
fied at hearing her children hesitate, repeat
and stammer when trying to narrate any
passing incident? If she never expects to
impart her thoughts to others, what stimu-
lus has she to cultivate habits of deep and
continuous thought? and if she has not that
power herself, how can she give it to her
children?
	If she strengthen not her own faith in
the glorious plan of salvation which God
has revealed to His children, how can she
build up theirs? If no noble enthusiasm
for the good of humanity warm her own
heart, how can she impart such to them?
	Dear sisters, may it not be that God is
testing us in small matters preparatory to
calling us in labor in great ones? or, rather,
does not He  allow great matters to appear
small in our eyes, that we may prove wheth-
er we are willing to live up to our privileges
and avail ourselves of every opportunity to
educate ourselves, and be prepared to oc-
cupy any position, however important or
responsible, to which we may be called?
	How can we guess what all-important
duties the near future has in store for us?
There are yet portions of the Gospel unre-
vealed, and in view of what it may disclose,
how heedful should we be that the dark day
finds us not with dark and empty lamps like
the foolish virgins.
	We are women; and the day has yet
scarcely dawned when the name woman is
not a synonym of ignorance and weakness.
We are gathered from the midst of all na-
tions, and in every one of these nations, the
education of woman was almost ignored.
	Being, then, only children in acquire-
ments, even though now our lot is cast
among a people who believe it only just that
woman should be as highly educated as man,
it is necessary that we begin climbing at
the foot of the ladder, and if we never
reach the top in this world, let us not falter,
for whatever we gain is ours, and to every
step we ascend we may lift our children with
far less trouble to them, than if they were
climbing alone.
	Our society meetings are excellent schools
in which to gain, if we will, a knowledge
of passing events, the situation and progress
of the different stakes of Zion, the real
character and features of the religion we
profess, something of finance, an interest in
public enterprises, lessons of sympathy for
fellow-creatures, a social, sisterly feeling for
each other, the steadiness of nerve requisite
to stand on our feet and address a company
of our peers, and many other good and nec-
essary lessons.
	Among other things, it is necessary to
learn discrimination between good and evil
for ourselves, and not be dependent on
others for information on such subjects.
Then we should no longer be in such un-
wholesome fear of being sneered at as
'strong-minded," "blue-stocking" &c., and
if we go about on legitimate and honorable
business we cannot be frightened out of it
because some unworthy child of Adam
chooses to accuse us of "gadding."
	Although woman's first, and most likely
her last, duty is at her fireside, she has in-
termediate ones elsewhere. She should
visit the sick to surprise the weak appetite
with some dainty of her own preparation,
to lighten a heavy hour with her gentle con-
versation, or win for the sufferer a refresh-
ing slumber by fixing the attention of noisy,
neglected little ones with a pleasant story
or a new game.
	She should attend lectures, concerts, libra-
ries, art galleries and whatever means is
within her reach to inform her mind, relax
her nerves, and quicken her relish of life;
for by these means she gives her children
happy tempers, quick understandings and
healthy bodies.
	Be it remembered only, that recreation,
like labor, should be taken in such quanti-
ties as will invigorate, not weaken. And
no manifest duty should be set aside for
something more agreeable; but let us imi-
tate the school-boy who plays to rest from
study, and studies to rest from play.
	The great point which I wish to urge is
that the child of a cultivated mother is
more likely to be intelligent than the child
of an ignorant mother—a moral mother's
child will be moral, a capable woman's child
will be capable, a religious mother's child
religious &c. My firm belief is that the
mother who keeps home more strictly than
necessary, thus leading too narrow a life, is
farther from her duty than she who studies
to save labor that she may have time to
mingle with her kind, to inform her mind
and refresh her body. Indeed the latter
course is the duty of every mother so far as
it extends. It is foolish almost to wicked-
ness to consume time, strength and temper
in embroidering, tucking and ruffling what
we wear, when plain, neat garments are
just as pleasant to look upon, and far more
comfortable; or to spend the long fervid
hours of a summer's day over a roaring
stove, stirring, beating, frothing, mixing
unhealthful compounds to stimulate still
more our already vitiated appetites, and im-
pair still further our weak digestion, when
plain, simple diet is what we so much need
for our health's sake and to spare the blister-
ing, melting, laborious process of prepara-
tion.
	Let us examine all things in the light of
reason, and on each separate occasion go or
stay, do or leave undone, as our best judg-
ment dictates; and when duty says stay, do
so without a sigh for outside pleasures; but
when she says go, step forth in all the dig-
nity of conscious rectitude, heedless alike of
the fears of the timid and the scoffs of the
scornful.
						L. L. D.
	Beaver, April 2nd, 1874


POPULARITY.

	It is pleasant to be popular, but popularity
must not be gained at the expense of truth
and duty. None of the Old Testament
prophets were popular, nor was Christ. Their
mode, office and utteracnes gave offence.
When Phocion in the delivery of an oration
was warmly applauded, he asked his friends
what he had said that was wrong. Our
Savior told his disciples, "Woe unto you
when all men shall speak well of you, for
so did their fathers unto the false prophets;"
and when a Christian minister is popular
with "men of the world who have their
portion in this life," and they commend his
daily deportment and sermons, he may well
doubt whether he is doing his duty and
faithfully preaching the whole counsel of
God; for according to the ancient adage, “a
compliant temper makes friends, truth ex-
cites odium.” The pure doctrine and pre-
cepts of Christianity are humbling to proud
and earthly hearts, and therefore repulsive
to them.


A HAPPY THOUGHT.

	A story is told of Governor Chiltendon;
who was one of the early Governors of  Ver-
mont. He was quite an extensive farmer,
and in those days to be a Governor did not
greatly interfere with the incumbent's ordi-
nary vocation. He had two sons. One of
them a boy of bright intellect and the other
decidedly dull. The old gentleman thought
that nature had done enough for the young-
est and that he would make his way in the
world without more than a common-school
education, but that the elder one would need
all the aid of a liberal education to make up
the natural deficiency, and he was accord-
ingly sent to college, while his brother was
kept on the farm. It happened one spring
that among the fruit of the Governor's herd
was a very stupid calf. It would not suck
or drink, and no amount of effort on the
part of the father, son, or hired man, could
induce him to take his sustenance. After
repeated trials the good man’s patience
gave out, and he said to his son, “Freeman,
what on earth shall we do with this stupid
fool?” “I don’t know father,” was the ready
response, “unless we send him to college
with Martin.”


Would a man know himself, he must
study his natural temper, his constitutional
inclination, and favorite passions; for by
these a man’s best judgment is easily per-
verted, and a wrong bias hung upon his
mind. These are the inlets of prejudice,
the unguarded avenues of the mind, by
which a thousand errors and secret faults
find admission without being observed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿DICKENS AND HIS WIFE.
	The history of Charles Dickens' marriage
is simple enough.  He was at that time earn-
ing about thirty shillings a week, and met
Mrs. Dickens, then a moon-faced, fair-haired,
even-tempered, round-waisted, good-na-
tured, but very common-place English girl;
one of those women the height of whose
ambition is a large family, a little cottage, a 
new dress, a big bow and a merry Christ-
mas.  She was an honest, virtuous, simple-
minded, slightly romantic woman, whose
heart was in her home.  Charles Dickens
at that time was a young man of very ner-
vous temperament, with unbounded self-
esteem, and would have made a good hus-
band had he not been successful.  It was
after the birth of their second child that
Dickens began to realize the importance of
doing something to add to his "pot au feu."
He himself has often described with what
fear and trembling—having a wife and two
crying babes to provide for at home, and an
unlimited number of small creditors watch-
ing him—how he approached the great, big, 
yawning editor's box of Chapman & Hall,
and threw in his first two chapters of
"Sketches by Boz."  How astonished he was
a few days after to see an advertisement re-
questing "B[-]z" to call on the editor, and 
with what joy and trembling he returned
home and told his wife that he had been of-
fered £20 a chapter for his "Sketches."  The
era of Dickens' "Sketches" constituted the
happiest days of Mrs. Charles Dickens.
Often has the writer heard how Dickens
would read them to his wife and dance
wildly around the room.  With the close of
the "Sketches" began Mrs. Dickens troubles.
To better understand the gradual change in 
Charles Dickens' treatment of his wife, it is
necessary to analyze the character and train-
ing of the so-called common-place English
girl.  In this country the women easily 
adapt themselves to their positions in life.
In fact, in this country the woman generally
rises superior to the man.  Not so, however,
with the dull, good-natured, loving English
girl.  She, from her earliest childhood, is
brought up in a circle whose views are nar-
row and whose education is extremely lim-
ited.  The monotony of her existence is 
only broken by her regular attendance at
church and the counting of the household
linen on wash-day.  If she goes to the Crys-
tal Palace she will stare vaguely at the Cor-
reggio and make quaint remarks when
brought in contact with a "chief d'œuvre."
Her eyes will only sparkle as she sits in the 
buffet, or dining-room.  Her circle of acquaint-
ances will be among her own class, and that
class of society, like herself sees no beauty
in art, nor can appreciate true genius.  This 
is the character of Mrs. Dickens—a truly 
good-natured, loving, motherly woman.  So 
long as Charles Dickens had to buffet against
adversity, so long was he contented with
his little wife.  But as soon as Charles Dick-
ens began to be courted; as soon as he found
he was on the road to immortality and for-
tune; as soon as he began to mix in society,
and realized the extraordinary fascination
of mixing among the upper ten, then 
Charles Dickens, for the first time, looked
down upon his little wife, who could not do
justice to the name of her husband.  There 
is no mystery attached to the separation.—
"Cor. New York Hearld."


THE SEAT OF WAR.—A correspondent
asks if the seat of war is cushioned. If it
is not it ought to be; for it is not a very soft
seat at any time.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	SOME people have their thinking, like
their washing, done out.

	AT the laying of the corner stone of the
new capitol of Iowa no speeches were made
except a few brief and pointed remarks by a
workman who got his fingers pinched.

	THOSE who are continually wanting the
most are likely to prove, on investigation,
to be those who are wasteful and careless
with what they possess.

	"HARD Times" sociables are fashionable
in Western Pennsylvania. The guests are
compelled to appear in patched clothing,
and the refreshments consist of mush, milk
and potatoes.

	A HAPPY CUSTOM.—In Switzerland there
is a law which compels every newly mar-
ried couple to plant six trees immediately
after the ceremony, and two on the birth of
every child. They are planted on the com-
mon and near the road, and being mostly
fruit trees are both useful and ornamental.
The number planted amounts to 10,000 an-
ually.

	A WONDERFUL discovery has been made
at Corralville, Iowa. In the lime-pits,
while making a drill hole for a blast, the
tool struck something hard. It proved to
be a bronze shield,similar to those found in
the Island of Silt and Denmark. Although
much corroded, marks of blows can be seen
on it, and some remains of zigzag metal-
work.

	THERE are dangers ahead of us. We
should be maniacs, rather than patriots, to
think so well of our country as to suppose it
incapable of taking harm. We are threat-
ened by dangers from the increase of crimi-
nals, from the enlargement of the pauper
class, and from the decay of political sense
and political virtue among us. True wisdom
consists in frankly admitting these dangers,
and in honestly searching for the best means 
of counteracting them.

	CAUSE OF INTEMPERANCE.—One cause of
the commonness of intemperance in the
present state of things, is the heavy burden
of care and toil which is laid on a large mul-
titude of men. Multitudes to earn subsist-
ence for themselves and their families, are
compelled to undergo a degree of labor
exhausting to the spirits and injurious to
the health; of consequence, relief is sought
in stimulants. We do not find that civili-
zation lightens man’s toils; as yet it has in-
creased them, and in this effect I see a sign
of deep defect in what we call the progress
of society. It cannot be the design of the
Creator that the whole of life should be
spent in drudgery for the supply of animal
wants. That civilization is very imperfect
in which the mass of men can redeem no
time for intellectual, moral, and social cul-
ture. It is melancholy to witness the deg-
radation of multitudes to the condition of
beasts of burden. Exhausting toils unfit
the mind to resist temptation. The man
spent with labour, and cut off by his con-
dition from higher pleasures is compelled to
seek a deceitful solace in sensual excess.
One thing seems plain, that there is no ten-
dency in our present institutions and habits
to bring relief. On the contrary the, poor
seem to be more and more oppressed with
incessent toil, exhausting forethought, anx-
ious struggles, feverish competitions.—Dr.
Channing.


﻿DOCTOR CROCKWELL.
	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.

MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
		   ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
    Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.
MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m. 

MRS. CARPENTER,
		     Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.

			H. DINWOODEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store on

FIRST SOUTH ST., ½ BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,

			Where he is prepared to do a 

WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.

H. WALLACE 
	Has the best, large[-]t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
   up of the club          -          -         -        -       $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
    up of the club         -          -         -        -         26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
    up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
    ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
    Young, selling price, $2 50          -       -	     34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
    up of the club, and a superior first proof,
    steel engraving of President Brigham
    Young, handsomely framed, selling
    price $4      -          -       -       - 			    48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.

