VOL. 2.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1873	No. 13.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE REEDSBURY "Free Press" is said to
employ only women and girls to do its work,
and to comment thus: We have a calico
"foreman", two dimity. "compositors" and
the sweetest little "devil" in pink muslin,
that can be found any where.
	The HON. George Q. Cannon has been
admitted a member of the House of Repre-
sentatives at Washington. Possessing the
confidence, and being assured that he has
the faith and prayers of the people he rep-
resents, his labors there will, undoubtedly,
be efficient in their behalf.
	A FOND mother is said to have carried home
a bundle of lace ruffles, a bolt of silk, some
ribbons and skeins of worsted, the other
day, from a store in one of our western
cities, where she left her baby lying on the
counter. We don't credit the story. Babies
are not so stupid as to admit of such a 
blunder if a mother might be.
	MR. JOSEPH ARCH suggests in a letter to
the Commissioners of Immigration, that an
emmigrant house be established, combining
cleanliness and comfort with protection, in
which newly arrived immigrants, who may
be obliged to wait in New York for employ-
ment or transportation west, may be pro-
vided with a home without resorting to the
swindling boarding houses of the city. It
is a praiseworthy suggestion.
	"THE BOLTON GUARDIAN" (England,)
has been publishing interesting letters from
Mr. Birch, and one signing himself "Equal-
ity," the former defending, the latter con-
temning polygamy. In one of his commu-
nications, "Equality" says, "As an English-
man, my indignation naturally arose to see
such an ungodly thing as polygamy defend-
ed." As an Englishman, then, how would
"Equality" deal with the wretched practice
so common in England, by which hundreds
of women become mothers who are never
acknowledged by any man as wives?
"Equality's" views upon the subject of mar-
riage, appear very one sided, as do the opin-
ions of most of the so-called Christian world,
which would deny more than half its wo-
men the privilege of marrying at all.
	A VERY extraordinary accident by which
the Persian gulf cable was broken, has been
recorded in late papers. The cable between
Khurrachee and Gwadur, about 300 miles
distance, suddenly failed to work one eve-
ning. It was found necessary in order to
make repairs, to wind in the cable, in per-
forming which, more than usual resistance
was experienced. After a considerable
amount of time and perseverance, an im-
mense whale was brought to the surface,
and found to be firmly secured, immediately
above the tail, by two and a half tons of the
cable. The body had been partly eaten by
sharks and other fish, and was rapidly de-
composing. The tail, which measured 12
feet across, was perfect, and covered with
branches at the extremities; and it was sup-
posed that with a sudden fillip of this tail,
the fish had twisted the cable about him, and
been unable to extricate himself.
[Column 2]
	AN EXCHANGE has the following concern-
ing Woman's Rights in Russia. Form-
erly their sole public employment was the
sweeping of the streets under the eye, or
rather under the whip of the Police, and
this was a privilege confined to drunkards.
But now all is changed; and at a time when
Britain is trying to exclude them from its
medical colleges, an edict has been issued
by the Czar to afford them facilities for ac-
quiring a thorough knowledge of midwife-
ry, and the other branches of Surgery and
Medicine. They are also to be admitted as
workers in telegraph offices. They are en-
joined to "avoid negligence and sauciness,
and above all, to propagate no scandal."
They are not, however, to be intrusted with
the privilege of voting, or of meeting in
public for the purpose of discussing philo-
sophic questions." Apparently, the cause
of woman is progressing favorably in nearly
all parts of the world--the United States
should be no longer slow to perceive wo-
man's needs and grant her justice in all re-
spects. 
	OF THE "Virginius" affair, which has
caused so much talk and excitement of late,
we find no account of the particulars more ful-
ly given in few words, than which appears in
President Grant's Message. He says, "The
steamer "Virginius" was, on the 26th day
of Sept., 1870, duly registered at the port of
New York as a part of the commercial ma-
rine of the U. S. On the 4th of October, 1870,
having the certificate of her register in the
usual legal form, she sailed from the port of
New York, and has not since been within the
territorial jurisdiction of the U. S. On the
31st of October last, while sailing under the
flag of the U. S., on the high seas, she was
forcibly seized by the Spanish gunboat "Tor-
nado," and was carried into the port of San-
tiago de Cuba, where many of her passen-
gers and crew were inhumanely and, at least
as related to those who were citizens of the
U. S., without due process of law put to
death. It is a well established principle,
asserted by the U. S. from the beginning of
our national independence, and recognized
by Great Britain and other maritime pow-
ers, and stated by the Senate in a resolution
passed unanimously on the 16th of June,
1858, that American vessels on the high seas
in the time of peace, bearing the Ameri-
can flag remain under the jurisdiction of the
country to which they belong, and therefore
any visitation, molestation or interference
with such vessels by force on the part of a
foreign power, is in derogation of the sov-
ereignty of the U.S. In accordance with
this principle, the restoration of the "Vir-
ginius" and the surrender of the survivors
of her passengers and crew, due reparation
to the flag, and the punishment of the au-
thorities who had been guilty of the illegal
acts of violence, were demanded. The
Spanish government has recognized the
justice of the demand, and has arranged for
the immediate delivery of the vessel and
for the surrender of the survivors of the
passengers and crew, and for a salute to the
flag, and for proceedings looking to the pun-
ishment of those who may be proved to have
been guilty of illegal acts of violence to-
wards citizens of the United States; and
[Column 3]
also towards indemnifying those who may
be shown to be entitled to indemnity."


A GIRL HERO.

	Acts of heroism are not alone performed
by men. They are not limited to battle fields
or to the deck of sinking vessels. Lottie
Dougherty, of Millville, New Jersey, a
young school girl, studied telegraphing last
summer, and in August accepted a situa-
tion at Randor, a station on the Central Penn-
sylvania Railroad, boarding at Eagle Sta-
tion, a mile or more distant. One evening,
a thunderstorm came up. The lightning
tiruck the instrument and burned out the
magnet. She supplied another and was
ready for business. Going to the door she
noticed by the light of a flash of lightning,
that a large tree had been uprooted by the
storm and blown across the track. An ex-
press train was due in a few minutes, and
local trains would follow it. She compre-
hended the situation in a moment, and op-
posed by several men in the station, she
seized a signal lamp, ran through the fear-
ful storm up the track, and swung her lamp
till she heard the engineer whistle down
brakes. The speed of the train was checked,
so that the cars were not thrown off the
track, though the locomotive struck the
tree with such violence as to hurl a heavy
branch against the girl’s shoulder, throwing
her down the embankment into a deep ditch.
She was taken out and carried to the office
where she telegraphed the news of the ac-
cident and remained on duty all night. A
large sum of money was collected for her
by the passengers, which she refused. Six
months after, the brave girl died from the
injuries received in saving the train. Men
and women, whose lives were saved, a great
corporation, whose property was saved, took
little thought of the poor girl who had ha-
zarded so much. Struggling for home and
parents, she remained at her post of duty
almost to the time that death came to her.
––EX.


﻿Illinois has lately elected eleven ladies to
be School Superintendents.
	REMAINS OF A MASTODON.—Mr. Litt, re-
siding some six miles north of this place,
not long since, whilst sinking a well, and
after having passed through the hard pan
and several stratas of sand, at forty-five feet
reached a bed of gravel, and with it an
abundance of good water. Embedded, how-
ever, in the top of the gravel, he passed
through the skeleton of a mastodon. Sev-
eral of the bones, in a good state of preser-
vation, were brought to the surface. In
one of the bones was discovered a flint ar-
row-head, such as is in common use by the
present Indians of this continent. The ar-
row-head was so completely embedded in
the bone that there can be little doubt  that
it was shot into the monster animal near the
time of its death. This fact carries with it
the reflection that these monster animals,
the remains of which are now visible, do
not antedate the present Indian race inhab-
iting our continent.—[Modesto News.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the Exponent
	     LIGHT FROM THE GRAVE. 

		DEDICATED TO A. E. T.

My soul is strangely stirred this Sabbath morn,
Within her silent chambers Memory sings,
My thoughts seem of ecstatic rapture born,
The air is sweet as fanned by angel wings;
Thus cheered, through Mem’ry’s solemn haunts I’ll stray
And seek the grave which in my soul was made;
From that sad sepulchre I’ll roll the stone away,
Where youth’s bright dreams so long ago were laid.

In childhood sweet, one chosen friend was mine;
Years coming found, and flying left us true;
Time only made our spirits closer twine
And o’er us shed sweet Faith’s ambrosial dew.
But when our childish feet approached the door
Where womanhood, the lovely, holds the key,
Another came and, where no doubt had been before,
Sowed cold distrust in her warm heart for me.

Alas! love, ’twas a bitter thing to learn
That our twin spirits thus could sundered be,
And oft deep scorn would in my bosom burn
When you as some cold stranger looked on me.
But ah! my love was rooted far too deep
To be thus rudely torn and thrust away,
Its anguished moans disturbed my fitful sleep,
Its pleading voice rang in my ear by day.

It urged, you must BELIEVE you had just cause
(Though I, perhaps, its nature ne’er might know,)
To harbor doubt of me; ’twere well to pause
Nor judge in haste: 'twas that which wounded so.
Love conquered; and long years I meekly bore
The cross of your unmerited disdain.
Still hoping truth revealed would bring once more
My heart’s lost idol to my side again.

My hope was vain! for soon pale Death drew near
And claimed in youth’s sweet pride and glorious bloom
My sister soul, who, void of guilty fear,
Descended meekly to the grave’s soft gloom.
Your cherished friends received with your farewell
Sweet words to save fond Memory from despair,
But me no dove-winged message came to tell
You e’en forgave my unknown error there.

None ever shed such bitter tears as mine
On this cold stone above thy bright young head,
Hope’s fairy light was quenched, no more to shine
On my sad soul for silent are the dead.
O cruel stone! to hide those glorious eyes
Which kindled to all truth, save only mine;
Now must they never pierce the deep disguise
Which round my love did envious falsehood twine.

So mourned I deeming all forever lost,
In my blind grief forgetting God is good;
But whence, upon my soul so sorrow-tost,
Comes this sweet peace in bright, celestial flood?
Hast learned, at last, the truth, my peerless one,
That changeless, guileless was my love for you?
And in that fairer life, so late begun,
Dost pay with love the sorrow I’ve passed through?

Oh, God be thanked! in other life than this
Deception cannot find a lurking place,
And, heart to heart, we two may bathe in bliss
And see and know each other face to face.
I seem to hear her low voice in my ear,
To feel her hands caress my lowly head;
Oh, happy day! that led my footsteps here,
Through these sweet walks and silent aisles to tread.
LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS

A TEACHERS' monthly meeting was held
Nov. 6th, 1873, at the Third Ward School
House, Salt Lake City. Very few attend 
the meetings, compared with the number
that belongs to the Society; but those who
do attend are punctual and diligent and ex-
press a willingness to do all they can for the
advancement of the Kingdom of God.
	The word Female we have dropped from 
our Society.
	Several of the Sisters take the EXPONENT
and are pleased with its contents; we wish
it great success.
		ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Secretary.

	The Relief Society of the Fifth and
Sixth Wards, Salt Lake City, is reported by
Secretary Mrs. Catherine Anderson.
[Column 2]
	An annual meeting was held in the 
Sixth Ward school house, Wednesday, No-
vember 12th, 1873.
	It has been resolved to omit the word
"Female" from the name of the Society.
	The Society is in a prosperous condition; 
meetings well attended; the sisters, energetic
in attending their duties, besides reliev-
ing the needy, have assisted in erecting a
new school house. Mrs. Rhoda A. Fullmer
is President.

	From Santaquin, Nov. 19th, 1873, Sec-
retary Julia D. Wilson writes:
	Our Relief Society still flourishes, and is
doing a good work in helping the poor and
comforting the sick. The sisters are gener-
ally united.
	We held our fifth annual meeting Nov.
6th. Our President is a worthy woman,
alive to the interests of the Kingdom of 
God.
	A Young Ladies' Retrenchment Associa-
tion, now numbering thirty-five members,
has been organized here.

	Mrs. B. A. Goodel, President of the
Relief Society at Washington, sends us a
report of that association. It was organ-
ized the fourteenth of October, 1868. Its
members have labored under many disad-
vantages with cheerfulness and zeal; striv-
ing to do their part in honorably sustaining 
the noble cause they represent in connection
with the Relief Societies elsewhere. They
have a fine hall nearly completed in which,
ere long, their meetings will be held. Their
fifth annual meeting held the fourteenth of
last October, was favored with the presence 
and good teachings of the Presidency in
that portion of country.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Matthews and Mrs. M. G.
Whitehead are counselors to President Mrs. 
Goodel.

	The Relief Society of Ogden City, held 
a meeting Nov. 27th, in the New City Hall.
There was a large attendance, many spoke,
the spirit of God was made manifest not
only by their speaking but through what
had been accomplished the past week in
taking care of the poor.
	God bless all who are willing to assist the 
needy. 		   A. M. FRODSHAM, Secretary.
	Secretary Mrs. Agnes S. Armstrong writes
from Ephraim, Sanpete Co., that the Relief 
Society of that place is in good condition,
"all the good sisters" belonging to it and
each one striving to do her very best. Their
young ladies were organized into an associ-
ation last March, with a President, six Coun-
selors and a secretary; namely:
	Miss CAROLINE JENSEN, President,
	  "	C. M. WILLARDSEN, <} Counselors.>
	  "	K. E. MADSEN, <} Counselors.>
	  "	A. MARTENSEN, <} Counselors.> 
	  "	JULIA THORPE, <} Counselors.>
	Mrs. ANNA PETERSEN, <} Counselors.>
	Miss JULIA DORIMUS, <} Counselors.>
	  "	HELEN E. ARMSTRONG, Secretary.
	Our correspondent speaks of a very agree-
able visit made to the settlement by Elders
Joseph, Lorenzo D. and William G. Young,
during which the people felt greatly blest
by the good instructions which the mission-
aries gave. At time of writing, the weather
was delightful and the general health of the
citizens good, though some cases of measles
were in town.


Mrs. McIntosh, of Joliet, Illinois, has been
elected County school Superintendent by a
handsome majority over three male com-
petitors.


[For the Exponent.
		HOME WORK.
How often we hear the quotation "Charity
begins at home;" perhaps when we are en-
gaged in some kind act of benevolence, and
all the better feelings of our natures are
roused to do good to a fellow-creature,
some one will throw a damper upon our
glowing enthusiasm, by repeating this world-
wide saying.
	Sisters, do not let this hinder us from do-
ing good to others, nor cause our souls to
contract into a nut-shell, fearful lest we
should be of some use, or benefit in the
world, aside from our own individual home-
circle; but let us be sure and satisfy ourselves
thoroughly that our work has begun at home,
by our own fireside.
	There is something for parents to do be-
sides providing food and raiment for their
children, and sending them to day and
Sunday school; there is also a home educa-
tion which commences one can scarcely de-
fine when, in the absence of which there is
a lack in the character and life of a child that
extends over to mature years. Let us then
make our homes happy ones, bright and
cheerful by kind words and sunny smiles,
play with the children, romp with them
occasionally, tell them pleasing and simple
stories, sing with them, pray for them,
impress upon them the love of truth, teach
them the spirit of forgiveness, and charity
one for another, make everything pleasant
and inviting around them, that the recol-
lection of their childhood's home may linger
in their memories forever. Home may be
ever so poor or humble, but if father and
mother dwell in love and strive together
for true happiness, the children will grow
up in an atmosphere of gladness, and sun-
shine, and the remembrance of the beloved
ones, with whom they associated there, will
be held sacred in their heart of hearts.
	One may get the finest education possible
to be obtained in our modern schools, but if
he or she has never had a home of peace
and comfort there will be a feeling of regret
that will never wear away. "I had a hap-
py home," you will hear remarked by some
good tempered, genial man or woman, and
we almost knew it before from, the happy
disposition.
	Let us teach our little ones the gospel of
Jesus as we understand it—tell them how
the Savior loved little children—many of
us have been too careless in regard to our
children in times past—let us be wide-awake
now. The Lord has abundantly blest us
with peace and plenty, we have time, if we
will use it wisely, for the instruction and
benefit of our children and each other, and
to make our homes truly homes of piety,
intelligence, culture and refinement.
	But O! the magnitude of the work devolv-
ing upon us, if we keep in any wise the
golden rule, "To do unto others as we would
that they should do unto us." Our sisters
are gathered from all countries nearly, and
many of them have never known what a
real genuine home is. They have been
compelled to work early and late in order to
obtain even the common necessaries of
life; consequently they know nothing about
instructing their children at home. Here
in Zion, if they are industrious, they will
get homes of their own, they will have time
for the cultivation of their minds, for the
development of their intellects, and is it
not our duty to assist them in this work of
improvement by all the means in our power
and to give them, as much as possible, the
benefit of our experience?
	The question naturally arises, how can we
do it? We cannot go from house to house


prying into other people's affairs and search-
ing out their home life; Oh no, certainly not;
but we can, each of us, use all our influence
in doing good, giving good and sound advice
to those around us wherever and whenever
there is an opening, take especial pains to
encourage a spirit of home-culture, and to
procure a wide circulation for the EXPONENT
which will be a great blessing and advantage
to the home-circle; never neglecting an op-
portunity to do a home-work. Zion is our
home, as well as our own fireside; we are
brothers and sisters all; then let us be co-
workers in our labor of love at home, and
though we are not called upon to preach the
Gospel to the nations, let us diligently and
faithfully fill our home-sphere, using all the
talents God has given us for the dissemina-
tion of truth and light.
	Let us be earnest workers, zealous for "to-
day;" never shrinking from duty; patterns
of propriety and consistency in all our
efforts to prepare ourselves and our children,
for lives of honor and practical usefulness;
never "weary in well-doing," whether our
efforts are appreciated or not; we may be
misunderstood but if our motives are pure
and our consciences' clear, we shall "in no
wise lose our reward."
				Blanche Beachwood.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 21, 1873.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
	MORTAL AND IMMORTAL ELEMENTS
		OF THE HUMAN BODY. 
 
A PHILOSOPHICAL OBJECTION TO THE RESUR-
		RECTION, REMOVED.

	BY MISS ELIZA R. SNOW.

	The subject of the resurrection of the dead, 
although of inexpressible interest to all of the 
human family, is very little understood by 
man in the flesh, and will not be explained 
until he who holds the keys pertaining to it 
for this dispensation, shall develop its prin-
ciples. 
	Although we cannot penetrate the cloud
of obscurity which envelops this subject; 
knowing, as we do, that death is certain, it
is natural that we should enquire in the 
depths of our souls, What and where is our
future? Shall the spirit and the body again be
united? Who, that does not altogether ig-
nore the idea of a resurrection of the body, 
but experiences at times, a bewilderment of 
thought concerning it?
	Realizing that, in accordance with estab-
lished laws of nature, the substances which 
now compose these bodies of ours, will, 
after death, become identified parts of in-
numerable other human bodies, also be incor-
porated into the bodies of beasts, insects, 
fowls &c. and through them bequeathed to
others; the question naturally arises, 'How
can they be again restored to us? And, if 
restored to us, from what source will the 
deficiency be supplied to other bodies?'	This is a problem which neither the rules
of science nor the wisdom of man, unaided
by revelation, can solve–a problem which
infidelity very plausably applies as a settled
refutation to the doctrine of the resurrec-
tion–one in which the worldly wise phi-
losopher finds a palpable inconsistency, and 
one which in the face of sound reason
amounts to the impossibility of a reorgan-
ization of a human body: for what reflecting
mind does not see that the laws of nature
which apply to the decomposition of the
elements which constitute the living body, 
preclude a possibility of the same material 
being restored, at one and the same time, 
to all bodies of which it has comprised com-
ponent parts in millions of instances, at dif-
ferent times; and, believing God to be a
consistent Being, and acting in accordance
with eternal, unchanging laws, and admit-
ting that these laws are harmonious- that
the higher operate in consonance with, and
are never antagonistic to those of a lower
order, is it a matter of surprise that think-
ing people of a highly intelligent class, in
many instances, yield to infidelity and adopt
the humiliating conclusion that the resur-
rection is only a phantom of the brain: while
others, with little or no reflection, content 
themselves by admitting that, "with God 
all things are possible," without questioning 
in what manner, or by what means the re-
sult will be effected. 
	His communications to, and the dealings
of God with man, so far as they are made
known to us, are characterized as those of
an intelligent Being conversing and dealing
with intelligent beings of the same order, 
but in a vastly lower state of development. 
	In His works, order is every where strik-
ingly apparent, and we find law, or rather
codes of law regulating and governing, not
only every department of life, but also every
grade and variety of matter. From the 
smallest speck that glitters and dances in 
the bright sunshine, to the glowing galaxy 
above us, representing system on system of 
worlds in the mighty distance, order is
everywhere manifest. Each department, 
whether of life or inanimate matter, is gov-
erned by laws particularly adapted to the 
peculiarities of its own identity, and in regu-
lar gradation from the smallest atom and
the most diminutive animalcule to the high-
est intelligences above; and all, whether 
assigned to different localities or interming-
ling in countless varieties- all operating in 
harmony, and not interfering with, or tres-
passing on each other. 
	Just so far as those laws are developed to
our understandings we pronounce them nat-
ural principles; and what, with us consti-
tutes a miracle, is nothing more nor less
than our ignorance of the process or law by
which the result is produced: for instance,
when our Savior in Cana of Galilee, chang-
ed water into wine, it is evident that he 
manufactured the wine through the agency 
of chemical laws of a higher order than
those who taught in the schools, hence the peo-
ple were filled with astonishment, for to
them, the performance was a miracle, they
probably being as ignorant of the laws
through which the result was obtained, as 
we now are concerning the resurrection of 
the dead. 
	In relation to the objections urged against
the reorganizing of the human body, we 
are in  possession of a very important and 
beautiful principle which pours a flood of 
light into the mind—obviates a heretofore
insurmountable difficulty, and disarms infi-
delity of its strongest plea against the resur-
rection, and puts impossibility to silence.
	By this we are instructed that the resurrec-
tion of the body is independent of all gross, 
divisible and transferable matter, and this
removes every rational objection against the
reunion of body and spirit, based on the in-
controvertible laws of nature pertaining to
the decomposition of the body, and the sub-
sequent transformations and reproductions
of the material of which it was composed. 
These are substances borrowed for this pro-
bationary use—to subserve the necessities 
of this mortal existence—to render us tangi-
ble to gross tangability, and for which, after
death, our bodies will have no further use.
	As soon as the spirit leaves the body, and
frequently before, nature's great work of
decomposition commences, and continues
till every particle of gross, volatile matter
is disengaged and by natural laws of affinity
passes into other forms, combining with oth-
er substances through an affinitude of
changes; and co-operating in an endless va-
riety of reproductions: as, for instance, the
grass that grows over the grave incorporates
a portion of the gross substance escaping
from the decaying body beneath: the cow, 
the sheep and the goose devour the grass
which, through the natural laws of nourish-
ment produces flesh—people eat the flesh of 
the cow, sheep and goose, and thus we may
trace the same identical matter, perhaps 
divided and sub-divided into infinitessimal
particles and passing into every form of hu-
man, brutal, insect, vegetable, and atmos-
pheric existence- going onward from gen-
eration to generation. 
	But thanks to God for the key which solves
the mystery. Every organized human 
body, independent of the spirit, (which is a 
separate organization) is composed of two
distinct classes or grades of matter, and in
such mutual combination as to subserve the 
purposes of this lower existence. One is
gross, volatile—subject to change and decay
through a precarious union of earth, air, fire
and water—tangible to mortal sight and
touch, and subject to all the laws of decom-
position. The other is pure, invisible, in-
tangible and capable of resisting every law 
of infraction or dissolubility. This, when
the spirit leaves the body, remains INTACT—
never being incorporated with other bodies
or substances. This is the precious material
that will be resurrected in perfect form, and 
compose the immortal tabernacle of the im-
mortal spirit. 
	It is well understood that resurrected be-
ings are invisible to these gross organs of
sight except when they are quickened by
immortal vision—that if the dead  were
brought forth within viewing distance of us,
we should not see them. Why not? The
resurrected body being composed of this
pure material, can only be seen by organs of
sight formed of the same pure matter, un-
clogged with gross substance.
	While the gross portion is disorganizing
and reorganizing, being perpetually chang-
ing and in motion—while the disembodied
spirit is associating in the world above; the
pure substance, the precious germ of an
immortal tabernacle, the jewel's casket,
quietly sleeps in the bosom of mother Earth,
awaiting the eternal mandate, which, in
accordance with the higher code the celestial
law, shall reunite it w[---] the joyous spirit
filled with eternal intelligence, no more to
be separated.
	The Earth also, combines in its present
organization, both of the above mentioned
classes of elements; and [---] well as man, will
yet experience a process of purifiation
before it can become the h[--]itation and ever-
lasting inheritance of resurrected, immor-
tal, embodied intelligen[----] "The elements
shall melt with fervent heat." After hav-
ing passed the the purifying ordeal of fire, and
having been cleansed from all combustible
and volatile properties, the earth will pass
from its present orbit, to the position among
the creations of God, from which it has fall-
en in  consequence of man's transgression:
and then will that prediction of our Savior
be fully realized—"The meek shall inherit 
the earth."


Boston requires her entire Fire Depart-
ment to sign the total abstinence pledge.
	Richter is painting a portrait of Maria
Alexandrovna of Russia, which is to be giv-
en to her future mother-in-law, Queen
Victoria.


[Column 1]

 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
L. GREEN RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
 One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager, Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1873.
AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.

			  AGENTS.
			  Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
 ,,	Margt. P. Young,	 ,,	Amanda Kimball
 ,, 	Lily Staines,		 ,,	Elizabeth Davis,
 ,,	Sarah Smith,		 ,,	Hampton, 16th
 ,,	Mary J. Thomson, 			Ward,
 ,,	Margaret Steel,	 ,,   Sarah E. Smith,
		    Miss Sarah E. Russell.
		    CORRESPONDENTS.
Mrs. Laura Miner,		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
,,	A. B. Smith,		Miss Mary E. Cook.
			       AGENTS.
			  Weber County,
,,	A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
		      Oneida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	  ,,	Mary Rich, Paris.
			    Rich County
	  ,,	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
	  ,,	Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
			   Cache County.
	  ,,	M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	  ,,	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
			  Box Elder County.
	  ,,	Mary Clark, Farmington,
	  ,,	Aurelia Rogers,	,,
	  ,,	Margaret Randell, Centreville,
	  ,,	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	  "	Susan Grant, 		     ,,
	  "	Sylvia Clark,		     ,,
[Column 2]
		 Salt Lake County.
  ,,	–––– Higgins, West Jordan,
  ,,	Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot-
		tonwood.
		 Tooele County.
Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
Mrs. E. Clegg,
Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
		 Utah County.
 ,,	–––– Brown, Pleasant Grove,
 ,,	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
 ,, 	–––– Harrison,		   ,,
 ,,	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
		 Juab County.
 ,,	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
 ,,	Ann Pitchforth,
 ,,	Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
		 Sanpete County.
 ,,	M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
		City,
 ,,	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
 ,,	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
Mrs. Mary Thorpe,		,,
		 Millard County.
 ,,	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
 ,,	Belinda M. Pratt,	,,
Miss Mary Callister,	,,
		 Beaver County.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
 ,,	L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
		 Iron County.
 ,,	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
Miss Josephine Smith, 	,,
		 Kane County.
Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
 ,,	Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
		Cedar City.
	   Washington County.
 ,,	Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
		St. George,
 ,,	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.


[Column 1]
		ASKING FOR MONEY.

ON first reading the following, which we clip
from "The Woman's Journal," it did not strike
us as being anything particularly appropriate
for the consideration of husbands in general;
and until we had complied with a request to
read it aloud in the presence of some half
dozen experienced ladies, and heard their united
opinions that it was exactly the right thing to
be presented to most men, we did not imagine
one young husband, who, since the day of their
marriage, has had the good judgment to hand
his wife a liberal share of all his earnings, not
merely for safe keeping, but as her own, so
great an exception among men. We are pleased
to allege, however, that there is one such exam-
ple, and hope, if there are but few such now,
that the many will take pattern by the few;
for as it not only saves a wife the annoyance of
asking for money, but the husband the annoy-
ance of being asked also, it is most consistent
with justice and harmony in family life.
	One of the very best wives and mothers I
have ever known once said to me, that when-
ever her daughters should be married, she
should stipulate in their behalf with their hus-
bands for a regular sum of money to be paid
them, at certain intervals, for their personal
expenditures. Whether this sum was to be
larger or smaller was a matter of secondary
importance,—that must depend on the income
and the style of living—but the essential thing
was that it should come to the wife regularly,
so that she should no more have to make a
special request for it than her husband would
have to ask her for a dinner. This lady's own
husband was, as I happened to know, of a most
generous disposition, was devotedly attached
to her, and denied her nothing. She herself
was a most accurate and careful manager.
There was everything in the household to make
the financial arrangements flow smoothly. Yet
she said to me, "I suppose no man can possibly
understand how a sensitive woman shrinks
from ASKING for money. If I can prevent it,
my daughters shall never have to ask for it.
If they do their duty as wives and mothers
they have a right to their share of the joint
income, within reasonable limits; for, certain-
ly, no money could buy the services they ren-
der. Moreover they have a right to a share in
determining what those reasonable limits are."
	Now it so happened that I had myself gone
through an experience which enabled me per-
fectly to comprehend this feeling. In early life
I was for a time in the employ of a kind friend
who paid me a fair salary but at no definite
periods; I was at liberty to ask him for money
whenever I needed it. This seemed to me, in
advance, a most agreeable arrangement; but I
found it quite otherwise. It proved to be
very disagreeable to ask for money;—it made
every dollar seem a special favor; it brought up
all kinds of misgivings, as to whether he could
spare it without inconvenience, whether he
really thought my services worth it, and so on.
My employer was a thoroughly upright and
noble man and I was much attached to him.
I do not know that he ever refused or demurred
when I asked for money. The annoyance was
simply in the process of asking, and this be-
came so great that I often underwent serious
inconvenience rather than ask. Finally, at the
year's end, I surprised my friend very much by
saying that I would accept, if necessary, a lower
salary, on condition that it should be paid on
regular days, and as a matter of business. The
wish was at once granted, without the reduc-
tion; and my employer probably never knew
what a relief it was to me.
	Now if a young man is liable to feel this pride
and reluctance towards a mere employer, it is
easy to understand how many women may feel
the same even in regard to a husband. And I
fancy that those who feel it most are often the
most conscientious and high-minded women.
It is unreasonable to say of such persons "Too
sensitive! Too fastidious!" For it is this very
quality of finer sensitiveness which men effect
to prize in a woman and wish to protect at all
hazards. The very fact that a husband is gen-
erous; the very fact that his income is limited;
—these may bring in conscience and gratitude
to increase the restraining influence of pride,
and make the wife less willing to ask money of
such a husband than if he were a rich man or

[Column 2]
a mean one. The only dignified position in
whicha  man can place a wife is to treat her
at least as well as he would treat a housekeeper
and give her the comfort of a perfectly clear
and definite arrangement as to money matters.
She will not then be under the necessity of
nerving herself to solicit from him as a favor,
what she really needs and has a right to spend.
Nor will she be torturing herself on the other
side, with the secret fear lest she has asked too
much, and more than they can really spare. She
will, in short, be in the position of a woman
and a wife, not of a child or a toy.
	I have carefully avoided using the word
"allowance," in what I have said; because the
word seems to imply the untrue and mean as-
sumption that the money is all the husband's,
to give or withhold as he will. Yet I have
heard this sort of talk from men who were liv-
ing on a wife's property or a wife's earnings;
from men such as keepers of boarding houses,
who worked a little while their wives worked
hard,—and from men, such as farmers who
worked hard and made their wives work hard-
er. Even in cases where the wife has no direct
part in the money making, the indirect part she
performs, if she takes faithful charge of her
household, is so essential, so beyond compensa-
tion in money, that it is an utter shame and
impertinance in the husband when he speaks
of "giving" money to his wife as if it were an
act of favor. It is no more an act of favor than
when the business manager of a firm pays out
money to the unseen partner who directs the
indoor business or runs the machinery. Be the
joint income more or less, the wife has a claim
to her honorable share, and that, as a matter of
right, without the daily ignominy of sending
in a petition for it.			T. W. H.


STILL AGREEABLE.

THE "Balance" concludes that enough has
passed between it and the EXPONENT upon
the subject of polygamy. It says:
	"Unless we are tempted beyond what we are
able to bear, by our Mormon friend of the EX-
PONENT, these are the last words we shall have
to say upon polygamy, as we fear we shall tax
the patience of our readers."
	Now, as we have not the least desire to
tempt the "Balance" in any conceivable
manner, to anything unpleasant for itself or
unprofitable to its readers, we will proceed
to answer its questions and remarks, so far
as we consider them in the slightest degree
applicable, or holding any connection with
the subject under discussion, as plainly and
candidly as our abilities will permit. And
then we are as willing that the discussion
should close as we were that it should com-
mence. We are asked:
	“Did Joseph Smith claim that the doctrine
of plurality of wives was revealed to him?
Persons who were with the Mormons at Nau-
voo, have told us that Joseph Smith never
taught the doctrine—that it was first broached
by Brigham Young, and that some of the mem-
bers prophecied trouble when he preached his
first sermon on the subject; and we have al-
ways understood that polygamy was the cause
of the separation of the Jo Smith Mormons
from the Brighamites— at any rate they do
not practice it.”
	The testimonies of hundreds of most re-
liable men, and women also,who were famil-
iar with the life and teachings of the mar-
tyred prophet, Joseph Smith, are given in
connection with his own inspired words,
which have been faithfully recorded, to
prove that the law of Celestial marriage,
embracing plurality of wives, was given by
divine revelation through him.
	We are aware that some persons who were
with him at Nauvoo say he never taught


[Column 1]
the doctrine; while others who had belonged
to the Church, but separated themselves
from it before his death, declare that they
forsook him and the cause they had espoused
because he taught this doctrine. He did
teach and practise polygamy, and it was re-
ceived by many honest hearts through his
teachings.
	The "Balance" next asks if we can tell
"How Joseph Smith came to name the sect
Mormons, or his bible the Book of Mormon?"
	Joseph, himself, under the direction of
his master, Jesus, designated his followers
as "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints." They are generally known as
"Mormons," however, because of their be-
lief in the Book of Mormon—so written
upon the plates from which Joseph transla-
ted the work—the name "Mormon," among
the ancient prophets by whom the plates
were made, and the records they contained
engraven upon them, signifying "More
Good."
	Speaking of marriage for eternity, our
Chicago friend queries thus:
	"Are a majority of our Mormon sisters anx-
ous that their connubial relations should last
throughout eternity? Would not many of
them be glad to look forward to death as a
blessed release?"
	We believe we can safely answer the for-
mer question in the affirmative; a great ma-
jority of the Mormon women prefer being
married by the law of God rather than by
laws of men, which should be sufficient evi-
dence.
	The other question is one which may
quite as appropriately be asked concerning
wives in monogamy. In our experience, we
have seen more unhappiness in monogamic,
than we have ever known in polygamic
families.
	Our friend thinks if we accept the Bible
and its doctrine, the plan of marriage for
time and for all eternity is not allowable.
As Jesus answered to those who asked him
concerning a certain woman who had been
married to seven brothers in succession, "In
heaven they neither marry nor are given in
marriage, but are as the angels of heaven."
This saying, however, is in perfect accord-
ance with the revelations given to the Pro-
phet Joseph, in relation to the marriage cov-
enant. If in heaven, there might be mar-
rying and giving in marriage, there would
be no necessity for the ceremony pronounced
here to reach farther than the extent of
mortal life. But as no such ceremony can
be performed there, it is vastly important
that it be properly attended to before en-
tering that sphere.
	If it might be supposed, that a country
was upon the earth, where it was under-
stood that to marry was not possible—a
country most desirable as a dwelling place,
but from which no person ever could come
back—would it not look absurdly foolish for
a crowd of young people, of both sexes, to
emigrate thither unmarried, or united in
couples by an order which remained good
only till they reached that country? Par-
ticularly after there had been directions
sent by the governor of the country, inform-
ing them of a plan by which they might be-
come true husbands and wives, and remain
so there, as well as in the country they were
leaving. And would not those who observed
the instructions of the governor, if there
were such, appear far more discreet in judg-
ment than those who did otherwise? In
our estimation they would, even if there
were many more very wise and good women
than men—as there certainly is in the world
to-day—and if; in consequence of a com-
mandment from the governor, the few
[Column 2]
worthy men should unite in marriage with
the many worthy women.
	We next find the following little sentence
in the "Balance," which is worthy of no-
tice:
	"Just how the apparent tangles of our earth-
life will be straightened out, we cannot say;
but if we seek to know the truth, and do the
very best we know, not recklessly making these
tangles more complex, God will doubtless help
us unravel them."
	God has indeed, instituted measures by
which all the mistakes and misunderstand-
ings of His children may be rectified. But
they must diligently "seek to know the
truth and do the very best they know."
The great Father has, in His infinite wis-
dom and mercy, devised a plan of salva-
tion, known as the Everlasting Gospel, which
the Latter-day Saints joyfully accept in its
fullness, and by which all those of His chil-
dren, who will listen to, and learn of Him,
may not only be saved, but exalted in his
presence. But he will only teach, and give
them power to act—the labors they must
themselves perform.
	We have a word to say in relation to the
following:
	"A lurking fear has always beset us that there
might possibly be physiological reasons in sup-
port of polygamy, but we are pleased to find a
statement by one who is regarded as a standard
authority by the medical world—Dr. Napheys,
A. M., M. D., member of the Philadelphia
Medical Society and corresponding member of
the Gynaecological Society of Boston, and au-
thor of the "Physical Life of Woman"—that
	The man who has several wives has usu-
ally a weakly offspring, principally males. Na-
ture attempts to check polygamy by reducing
the number of females, and failing in this, by
enervating the whole stock. The Mormons of
Utah would soon sink into a state of Asiatic
effeminancy were they left to themselves."
	Has any person, learned or otherwise, a
right to impose upon a world, whether igno-
rant or intelligent, the vindication of a
thing for truth, which he has not carefully
tested and proven by close observation to be
correct?
	The idea that weakly offspring, either in-
tellectual or physical, is the result of poly-
gamic marriage, is repeatedly confuted by
learned and intelligent people, who come
here and witness for themselves, and com-
pare the results of this system with those
of monogamy. And again, Dr. Napheys
is certainly laboring under a sadly mistaken
opinion when he concludes that the children
of the polygamist are principally males. A
sight of the multitudes of young, blooming
misses who throng the Mormon communi-
ties, should be an evidence to any one, ob-
serving for the truth's sake, or even out of
curiosity, that the statement of that learned
Dr., quoted by the "Balance", is most de-
cidedly erroneous. But if examples were
wanted as a proof of the fallacy of his
words, we need look no farther than into
some of the largest and most prominent
families of Utah, to find illustrations by
which to judge. And the decision could
not be other than that Dr. Napheys had
made a blunder, and that those trusting his
assertions as being correct, were deceived.
	And now we come to an article headed
"An Ally." in which the "Balance" repub-
lishes the "New North West's" article on
polygamy, to which we referred some time
since. We were led to presume that our
replies to Mrs. Duniway were satisfactory
to herself, as she has not touched the subject
again, to our knowledge. But the "Balance"
makes a mistake in one instance, which we
would hardly feel justified in passing with-
out correction. It gives one of our answers
to Mrs. D. in altogether a wrong sense, mak-
ing, in reality no sense at all of it; and
[Column 3]
leaving our explanation to the question quo-
ted, which we gave in the subsequent num-
ber, unnoticed. It says:
	"In answer to Mrs. D.'s question "Why
religious revelations always come to men,"the
EXPONENT asks, "Why when Laban gave Ra-
chel to Jacob, he did not provide another hus-
band for Leah."
	Our question here quoted, was offered as
an argument in part, against the absurd no-
tion advanced by the "New North West,"
that if it was right for a man to have more
wives than one, it was also right, and as
reasonable for a woman to have more than
one husband. While in answer to Mrs. D.'s
question. "Why religious revelations always
come to men," we gave a very different an-
swer, which appeared in number 9 of the
present volume of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FROM DIXIE.
	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, Nov. 25th, 1873.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Our warm sunshine and balmy air are
delightful luxuries, after returning from the
busy North, with its rain, snow and pinch-
ing frost. And we appreciate them all the
more, since our late return to dear, sunny
Dixie, where the fragrant flowers are still
blooming, the hum of the bee is heard dai-
ly, and the joyous, ringing laughter of the
merry-making children is echoed from the
hillsides, as rosy and barefooted, they scram-
ble about in search of new pleasures and
varied amusements. There are, however,
now, some four or five schools in our city,
which captivate most of the big "little ones,"
and make things more quiet, except at re-
cess and noonings. Our men folks are mak-
ing many improvements here this year, and
the music of saw, hammer and plane echoes
daily around us.
	We have still in bloom many hardy and
late-blooming plants, such as petunias, phlox,
marigolds, verbenas, Chinese chrysanthe-
mums, antirrhinums, &c., which usually
continue to bloom until Christmas. Al-
though the taste for flowers is improving,
we often wonder that so many deny them-
selves the pleasure of so cheap a luxury, and
one so easily attained. A few pots, or
little boxes, a sunny place in a window; a
trifle or nothing for the plants, common va-
rieties of which, any florist or gardner will
freely give those who ask; and one may have
flowers, and the green verdure of plants each
day through the winter: then in spring they
may be planted around the door for renewal.
"A thing of beauty" and "A joy forever."
To have these floral companions is a light
labor of love, and lovers of flowers may stu-
dy their own tastes, and have the varieties
they most fancy; for if out of season for the
plants, seed of quick blooming plants may
be sown whose flowers may soon adorn their
parlors, kitchens and boudoirs.
	We always doubt the gentleness and re-
finement of any woman, old or young, lady
or housemaid, who does not exhibit a taste
and love for flowers: we sincerely pity chil-
dren, who are raised without the daily in-
spiration of these heaven-sent blessings—
the smiling flowers.				FLORA.


Susan B. Anthony and Olympia Brown
are announced as speakers at the Annual
Convention of the Connecticut Woman suf-
frage Association, at New Haven.
	Mrs. Ellen S. Tupper of Des Moines,
Iowa, has assumed the charge of the "Na-
tional Bee Journal," as editor and proprie-
tor.
	The women of Rochester, New York, pay
taxes on seven millions of dollars.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent
	A MOTHER'S MISSION.

I have stood within the ballroom,
	Listening to the music's flow,
When my heart was gaily beating,
	And my cheeks were all aglow:
Then I thought that I was happy,
	As I joined the merry throng,
While with dance and pleasant pastime
	Sped the evening hours along.

But I since have felt a pleasure,
	Purer than the ballroom's joy,
When I gazed upon the features
	Of my first-born baby boy;
And I felt my husband's kisses
	Lightly pressed upon my brow,
Heard him whisper, "Oh my darling,
	We're a happy household now!"

Many years have come and vanished
	Bringing sons and daughters too;
Teaching me, a mother's mission
	Is to love, to hope, to do!
Love will make her duties easier,
	Hope, her future pathway bright,
And 'tis doing checks each evil,
	Guides the youthful soul aright!
					LAURA M. MINER.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	FROSTED FEET may be cured as follows:
White oak bark, taken fresh and boiled in
water to a strong liquor. Bathe the feet in
the liquor. It is pronounced the best of all
remedies. 
	FURNITURE OIL.—Mix half a pint of olive
oil with one pound of soft soap. Boil them
well and apply the mixture to your oiled
furniture with a piece of dry cotton wool.
Polish with a soft dry flannel.
	CHILDREN, and all persons attending
school, should take all the sleep they can get
and should never be waked up in the morning
after having gone to bed at a regular hour.
Every humane parent will make it a reli-
gious duty to arrange that every child shall
go to bed in an affectionate, loving and glad
spirit.
	QUAKER PLUM PUDDING.—Take slices of
light bread, spread them with butter and
lay them in a pudding-dish, with alternate
layers of raisins, until within an inch of the
top. Five eggs are then beaten with a
quart of milk, and poured over the pudding;
salt and spice to taste. I bake it twenty to
twenty-five minutes, and eat with liquid
sauce. The raisins should be boiled in a
little water before using, and the water and
raisins put on the pudding.
	CHILDREN.—Children can do a great deal
more than they are usually supposed to be
capable of. It doesn't weary a child to set
the table any more than it does to roll a
hoop, and at six years of age a boy or girl
can be made responsible for this task. Boys
can learn housework just as well as girls.
We know a boy of twelve who makes ex-
elent bread, compounds cake of faultless fla-
vor, and frosts it, washes dishes quickly and
clean, sweeps, makes beds, milks the cow,
feeds the chickens, takes care of the baby,
helps regularly about the washing and iron-
ing and holds his own in all respects with
any boy of his age. He is no prodigy, he is
only the result of judicial training. We
know a girl of 14, modest, pleasing, entirely
feminine, who takes care of the horse and
cow, washes the buggy when necessary, drives
the double team to market when the hired
man can't be spared, weeds in the garden,
rakes in the meadow like Maud Muller, and
is altogether feminine, though from neces-
sity she does the work of a boy.
	SALT-RISING BREAD.—To one pint of

[Column 2]
boiling water add 1/4 teaspoonful salt, 1/4 tea-
spoonful soda, one tablespoonful sugar, (brown
is best); when cool enough to bear the fin-
ger in it, thicken with flour to the consis-
tency of jelly cake; put into a vessel of
warm water, and keep it just as warm as
the batter will bear without cooking it. It
will rise about the middle of the day, if
started about six in the morning; this, with
water added, will make two small loaves.
	BAKED FRESH FISH.—Bake like meat in
a pan, with salt and a little water, and when
partly cooked, pour over it half or a whole
cup of cream, according to the quantity of
fish. It will bake in about an hour, and a
thickened gravy should be made in the pan,
after the fish is taken up. Cut halibut in
thick slices, but other kinds like haddock,
shad, etc., are best baked whole, and may
be stuffed if desired. This is a nice way of
cooking, if one cannot eat fried fish, as it
preserves the flavor much better than boil-
ing. 
	MEDICAL VALUE OF ASPARAGUS.—A
Medical correspondent of an English journal
says thatthe advantages of asparagus are not
sufficiently appreciated by those who suffer
with rheumatism and gout. Slight cases of
rheumatism are cured in a few days by feed-
ing on this delicious esculent; and more
chronic cases are much relieved, especially
if the patient avoids all acids, whether in
food or beverage. The Jerusalem artichoke
has also a similar effect in relieving rheu-
matism. The heads may be eaten in he
usual way, but tea made from the leaves of
the stalk, and drank three or four times a
day, is a certain remedy, though nor equal-
ly agreeable.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN REMOVING its composition and press
work from the office of the "Salt Lake Her-
ald," the EXPONENT, in simple honesty,
owes and extends many and sincere thanks
for the kind treatment it has there received;
for courteous encouragement and assistance
offered when most needed, and the good
feelings always, and still manifested in its
behalf. We might particularize, but feel-
ing that our gentlemanly friends would pre-
fer that we make no such demonstrations,
we forbear to mention, though we do not
forget any favor which has been so kindly
extended.
	OUR KIND readers will, we trust, accept
our apology for the lack of punctuality at-
tending our present issue, when they learn
that the delay has been unavoidable. The
printing of the EXPONENT, which has hith-
erto been done at the "Salt Lake Herald"
office, has, since the last issue, been transfer-
red to the office of the "Deseret News,"
where the type setting will, hereafter, be
done by Young Ladies. And as the present
issue is a specimen of their work in that
line, our readers will be able to jndge if they
will likely be satisfied with the change
which has taken place. The making ar-
rangements for, and completion of this
change, has taken up so much time that our
first of December number reaches our pat-
rons at a late date—an occurrence which we
very much regret and truly hope will not
again transpire.
	THE "JUVENILE Instructor" is to be en-
larged to twelve pages, and is to be publish-
ed without additional charge. Parents
wishing to make their little ones handsome
Christmas or New Year's presents, can do no
better than to give them two dollars to sub-
scribe for this valuable little work.


ONE of the most enjoyable occasions we
have witnessed this season, was an "append-
age" to a Birthday Party, recently given by
Mrs. M. I. Horne, The guests comprised
most of the leading ladies of this city, and
instead of careless jesting and light conver-
sation, which are so common at social gath-
erings, the afternoon and evening were spent
in a sort of intellectual,blessing and prayer
meeting. Among the Birthday presents
sent in, was a finely expressive, original
poem, written by one of the worthy lady's
sons, who is now a resident of Beaver City.


THE PIUTE QUEEN,—The far West boasts
of a modern Pocahontas, in the person of
Sarah Winnemucca, the daughter of the
chief of the Piutes, which Indian tribe do
her homage, as monarchial nations do their
queens and kings. She is said to have ac-
quired some education, reads English, writes
poetry, wears the dress of civilized femi-
ninity, and is reported friendly to the
whites.

	STORMS.—A smooth sea never made a skill-
ful mariner, neither do uninterrupted pros-
perity and success qualify for usefulness and
happiness. The storms of adversity, like
those of the ocean, rouse the faculties and
fortitude of the voyager. The martyrs of
the ancient times, in bracing their minds
to outward calamities, acquired a loftiness of
purpose and moral heroism worth a lifetime
of softness and security.
	A fond father in Rochester, says The
"Courier," had suspected his daughter of
having stolen moonlight walks with a lover
whom he had refused her seeing, and, in
coming home the other night at a late hour,
thought he saw his daughter's arm linked
in with the hated lover's. The indignant
father took the young man by the collar, and
was giving him a good shaking, when he
found he had hold of the wrong man, and 
soon learned that the parties were a highly
respectable married couple, who were com-
ing home from prayer meeting.

	At the students' annual debate at Re-
gent's Park College, England, March 25th,
many prominent Baptists were present and
took part in the discussion of the question,
Ought women to preach? A young lady
closed the discussion in an eloquent speech
—and the question was decided in the af-
firmative.

	WHEN AND HOW TO SING.—A writer on
the preservation of the voice says, the most
important things to be observed are the con-
ditions of the body when singing, and the
manner of singing. Never sing when in-
disposed, particularly in the organs of the
voice; never sing immediately after run-
ning fast, or after riding, lifting, or similar
bodily exertion; when the voice is not at
command, is wavering, incorrect, or panting,
which may have very bad consequences
withal. Never sing immediately before or
after meals, for it hurts both the health and
voice together. Never talk or sing too long;
it will raise an irritation, a burning, a prick-
ling in the throat or chest, which are always
signs of the approach of indisposition. Du-
ring singing stand free and easy, and do not
hold anything before the mouth which
might prevent the free flow of the breath,
and thus weaken the chest and deaden the
tone. The chest must always be held freely
erect, that the lungs may expand, strength-
ening the breath and giving more ease to
the song. Never, or at least very seldom
touch the extreme limits of your power of
voice. Frequent repitition of this over-
singing might produce a sudden and entire


loss of voice. Do not sing in a place either
too cold or too warm, so as to lose the proper
proportion of warmth between the breath
inhaled and exhaled. A singer must be
more moderate than anybody else in eating
and drinking, for the sake of the preserva-
tion of his voice: and this precious treasure
is well worth such a privation. This is
particularly applicable to tenor, soprano and
alto voices; the base is not so delicate.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
			AN APPEAL.

To the People of the Territory of Utah, con-
	cerning a Petition to the next Legislature to
	pass a law providing for a better organization
	and supervision of our Public Schools.
	FELLOW CITIZENS: The undersigned
Commitee appointed at the last session of 
the Territorial Teacher's Association, begs
leave to call your attention to the subjoined
Petition to our next Legislature. The Teach-
ers of the Territory would be lacking a due
appreciation of their duties, if they neglected
to assume the initiative in this matter, inas-
much as the people have a right to expect, 
that they, to whom are intrusted in a great
measure the educational interests of the
Territory, will attend to the proper develop-
ment of this department under the sanction
of the people. We therefore ask the signa-
ture of every citizen throughout the Terri-
tory, who wishes our educational affairs to 
be raised to a status adequate to the spirit,
interest and destiny of our people.
		COMMITTEE ON PETITIONS.
KARL G. MAESER, Chairman.

To the Honorable, the Legisltaive Assembly of
	the Territory of Utah.
	WHEREAS, Your petitioners, realizing the
inefficiency of the condition of our educational
affairs, although fully aware that the circum-
stances of the people of this Territory, for
the time past, scarcely enabled them to do 
more than they have done towards school-
ing the rising generation, and,
	WHEREAS our rapidly increasing popula-
tion finds itself placed in new conditions,
which demand not only particular talent and
ability, but make the general education of
the masses a matter of the utmost necessity:
	THEREFORE, we ask your Honorable body
to pass, during the present session of the
Legislature, a school Law, which, taking
into consideration the circumstances and
financial abilities of the people, shall meet
their just expectation, by securing to them
a more efficient organization and supervision 
of the public schools of our Territory.

			A CARD.

	To the People of Utah Territory

	The Territorial Teachers' Association, at
its last session, appointed a committe for the
purpose of drafting a petition to our Legis-
lature for the passage of a school law which
might secure to the citizens of the Territory
a better organization and supervision of our
common schools, the inefficiency of the
present system having become obvious to 
everybody. The committee appointed for the
above-named purpose is now about to circu-
late this petition among the people, and
has prefixed an appeal to all citizens
throughout the Territory to give weight and
countenance to this petition by their signa-
tures. Inasmuch as many inquiries have
been made concerning the nature of our
propositions, this public explanation has
been deemed necessary.
	The Territorial Teachers' Association fore-
seeing this appointed, during its last spring
session, a committee for the purpose of draft-

[Column 2]
ing a bill for a school law, to be presented to 
our Legislature. This committee has acom-
plished its task by drafting a bill providing
for all the details of a perfect school organi-
zation and supervision throughout the Ter-
ritory, with due consideration of the cir-
cumstances of our people. It is impossible,
in the limited space of this card, to give
more than a few of the leading ideas of this
bill, for the information of the citizens.
	The whole Territory is to be organized
into three school districts, corresponding
with the already existing judicial districts.
For each of these districts the legislature
is to elect two members, which six members,
with three others at large, similarly elected,
are to constitute a Board of Education.
This Board is to have control of all educa-
tional matters, not otherwise provided for.
It is to elect a Territorial superintendent,
who shall be its executive officer, and who
shall devote his entire time to his duties.
His salary is to be fixed by the Board. The
members of the Board are to receive no
salary.
	Each county constitutes a county school
district, controlled by a board of five trus-
tees, elected by the people; it elects a county
superintendent, nominated by the Territo-
rial Superintendent, who also has to devote 
his whole time to his duties. It has to sub-
divide the county district into subschool
districts, and nominate, for each subdistrict, 
a local director as agent for the board.
	There are also independent school dis-
tricts, consisting of all towns and cities of
5.000, or more, inhabitants; they are par-
allel to the county school districts.
	The Territorial Board of Education elects
a board of examination for the Territory,
and the county boards for their respective
counties.
	Provisions are made for the establishment
of a Normal School; for building of school
houses; for obtaining school furniture; for
rates of tuition; for teacher's salaries; for
the education of poor children; for methods
of instruction; for teachers' institutes; etc.
	It provides for the Territorial school funds
by claiming one-half of the liquor tax, all 
fines for drunkenness and disorder, the pro-
fits from sales of estrays, the revenue from
corporations for valuable franchises allowed
them, all property that shall escheat to the
Territory, and one mill of all taxable pro-
perty throughout the Territory. This to go
for the salaries of the officers, and current
incidental expenses; and the remainder to
be appointed to the subdistricts.
	The county funds shall consist of one-
fourth of one per cent. of the taxable pro-
perty, out of which to pay the county school
superintendent, the remainder to be appor-
tioned to the subdistricts of the respective
county school districts, for the purpose of
repairing schoolhouses, and for fuel and
other contingent expenses.
	Each subdistrict can assess itself, by a two-
third vote, not to exceed 3 per cent., for the
purpose of erecting school houses.
	These are some of the leading ideas of the
proposed bill, and our fellow-citizens can
easily perceive from them the spirit and
purport of the whole.
	The Territorial Teachers' Association thus
places its labors before the people, feeling
confident of having done its duty, and
leaves the result to the guidance of an over-
ing Providence.
	In behalf of the Territorial Teachers' Asso-
ciation.				KARL G. MAESER:


Miss Virginia Vaughan, the authoress,
has made her debut as an actress in New
York.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	A little girl was asked what was the meaning
of the word happy. She gave a pretty answer,
saying, "It is to feel as if you wanted to give
all your things to your little sister."
	Freedom’s indeed not doing as we like, not
everybody followiug his or her own way (even
if that were possible), but "self-control." Self-
control, plus a control or command of our sub-
ject, gives "freedom," but a person who has no
control over any subject, or right use of any
faculties, cannot have freedom.—Miss Nighin-
gale.
	Girls who are properly educated, who are
early taught the lessons of self-reliance, who
have placed before them a high standard of ex-
cellence to attain, will never stoop to be mere
dolls for the display of the latest fashions, the
butterflies of life, gaudy but worthless, but will
become sober, earnest women, who are fitted
to work out the high mission intrusted to them.
	God bless the cheerful people!—man, woman,
or child, old or young, illiterate or educated,
handsome or homely. Over and above every
other social trait, stands cheerfulness. What
the sun is to nature, what God is to the stricken
heart that knows how to lean upon Him, are
cheerful persons in the house and by the way-
side. They go unobtrusively' unconsciously,
about their silent mission, brightening up society
around them. We love to sit near them; the
expression of their eye, the tone of their voice
is an inspiration.
	Training Girls.—Training girls for house-
hold duties ought to be considered as necessary
as instruction in reading, writing and arith-
metic, and quite as universal. We are in our
houses more than half of our existence, and it
is the household surroundings which affect most
largely the happiness or misery of domestic
life. If the wife knows how to “keep house,”
if she understands how to "set a table," if she
has learned how things ought to be cooked, how
beds should be made, how carpets should be
swept, how the furniture should be dusted, how
the clothing should be repaired, and turned,
and altered, and renovated; if she knows how
purchases can be made to the best advantage,
and understands the laying in of provisions,
how to make them go farthest and last longest;
if she appreciates the importance of system,
order, tidiness, and the quiet management of
children and servants, then she knows how to
make a little heaven of home; how to win her
children from the street; how to keep her hus-
band from the club-house, the gaming-table
and the wine-cup. Such a family will be train-
ed to social respectability, to business success,
and to eficiency and usefulness in whatever
position may be allotted to them.
	It may be safe to say, that not one girl in ten
in our large towns and cities enters married
life, who has learned to bake a loaf of bread, to
purchase a roast, to dust a painting, to sweep a
carpet, or to cut, and fit, and make her own
dress. How much the perfect knowledge of
these things bears upon the thrift, the comfort,
and the health of families, may be conjectured,
but not calculated by figures. It would be an
immeasurable advantage to make a beginning
by attaching a kitchen to every girls' school in
the nation, and have lessons given daily in the
preparation of all the ordinary articles of food
and drink for the table, and how to purchase
them in the market to the best advantage, with
the result of a large saving of money, an in-
crease of comfort, and higher health in every
family in the land.—Hall's Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	DRESS FOR FARMERS' WIVES.

MRS. S. B. BRUCE has recently read a paper
before the Washington Grange of Patrons
of Husbandry from which we make the fol-
lowing extracts:—I have prepared a few
suggestions conveying my own peculiar
ideas, hoping that you will bear with me
when I have a woman’s work to do, and my
time is pretty much occupied about my own
household affairs. In the first place, let us
dress within our means, and for comfort and
convenience, instead of fashion. First in
order let us dress the head. God in his
infinite wisdom covered the head with hair,
and the good book says that long hair is an
ornament to a woman, and since God’s works
are perfect and no work of art can compare
with his, let us then arrange our natural hair
in a tasty manner, and not let fashion load
our heads with hemp or borrowed hair.
Then the covering for the head; of what
real account is the present style, except for
ornament. Our husbands and brothers wear
a hat that protects their heads and faces
from the hot rays of the sun in summer, and
in winter a fur cap or hat which is both warm
and comfortable to shield them from the cold
blasts, while we place upon our heads a cu-
pola, erroneously called a bonnet or hat, held
in position by guy ropes and stays, and if
we wish for comfort we must carry a para-
sol to protect our heads from the scorching
rays of the sun in summer, and in winter,
over this cupola, wrap some extra fixings to
keep out the cold, which is neither handy
nor convenient, especially when the team is
waiting for us. Oh for the good, old-fash-
ioned days when a bonnet was made to cov-
er the head, light and cool for summer, and
warm and comfortable for winter. I could
hardly adopt the quaker styles, yet I think
they are far preferable to the fashions of the
present day. Perhaps a medium between
the two would suit my taste.
	And our dress, of whatever fabric it may
be composed, let it be made in a becoming
style, easy fitting and convenient, and not
counterfeit deformity by carrying a pack
upon our backs to the inconvenience of our-
selves, and to the utter disgust of all sensible
men and women. Deformities will come to
us fast enough at best; let us, then not tempt
our Maker by ridiculously attiring ourselves,
lest He in his vengence may deal with us
or our offsprings. If we had been born thus
deformed, Oh, what a pity it would have
been! then why do it for fashion’s sake?
And then again, how much more convenient
it would be, if, when a dress is made, it
would stay made and look well until it is
worn out, and how much it would lessen our
labors. And then how much good could be
done with the time and means now spent
in useless display. My tastes are plain and
simple. I consider such an over-loaded,
puffed out concern as you see at the present
time for a dress, not only ridiculous but
vulgar.
	The question arises, What are you to do
with the girls? they want to dress in style
or as others do. I will answer, as the twig
is bent so the tree inclines.
	And our under dress, let it be sufficiently
warm, as many of the aches and pains that
we have can be traced to insufficient cloth-
ing. Let our shoes be such as will keep our
feet dry and warm, as our health depends
much upon this point. I would recommend
a thick woolen stocking for winter, and cot-
ton only for summer wear. And, finally, let
our whole apparel be for comfort and con-
venience. Let there be a variety in our
wardrobe, for variety is the spice of life.
	These views I would recommend for the
following reasons;—First, It would lessen

[Column 2]
the burden of many who now find it hard
to maintain their place in society. It would
lessen the force of temptations which often
lead men to barter honesty and honor for
display. If there was less strife in dress, it
would enable people in moderate circum-
stances to go more into society. It would
enable all classes to attend church. It would
save valuable time. It would relieve our
means from a serious pressure, and thus
enable us to do more for good enterprises.
						     R. N. Y.


PROVO.

	WE congratulate you on being linked by
iron rail with the jarring, traveling, trading
world. We had our reporter's pencil all
sharpened to pay tribute to Directors and
General Officials of the road, as well as Con-
ductors, &c. But as
		NOTE OF INVITATION
failed to reach reporter, she says she knows
nothing about the courteous manners, effi-
cient labors or eloquent speeches that she
had on the end of her pencil, before her fond
hopes of being invited to participate in your
late celebration were blighted.
			REPORTER
thinks EXPONENT ought to pronounce said
officials or semi-officials, or whoever engin-
eered the occasion, ungallant and impolite.
It is
			GRATIFYING
to note that when we have a spare V we can
come to your newly linked city, greet friends,
sponge our dinner and return home to the 
evening meal.
			TIMES CHANGE,
so do modes of conveyance and modes of
thought, and in the "good time coming"
EXPONENT'S reporters will have no occasion
to complain of slights offered to the paper
they represent.
				ALTA.
	Alta City was thrown into consternation
Sunday evening by the cry of fire, which
was found bursting from a board building a
block to the right of Main street; the flames
rapidly devoured the building and its con-
tents. As soon as the fire had abated a little
search was made, and two human bodies
found under circumstances that led to the
supposition of murder, and fire to consum-
mate the
TERRIBLE DEAH OF A FALLEN MAN AND
			WOMAN,
Captain Hart and Madam Miller. We reflect
a moment on the sad tragedy, and mentally
ask, Who was Captain Hart? He was, in all
probability, some fond mother's son, whose
relatives and personal friends mourn his loss
and deplore his untimely and criminal death.
Who was Madam Miller? Sad to write, she
was a fallen, degraded, besotted woman,
whose early life was one of purity, beauty
and promise. Her version of the reason of
her accepting a life of degradation was, that
in her early married life, her husband made
her the subject of unjust jealousy. We
cannot admit that any cause could furnish
justification for her lamentable career.
	COTTONWOOD KANYON
has been scourged with characters of the
above class, until a scourge seems to be visi-
ble in the atmosphere. If nought but the
devouring element of fire can cleanse Alta,
let the ashes, as far as possible bury the re-
membrance of her past pollutions. We have
			FRIENDS
in Alta and on its surrounding hills, and
we look hopefully for the dispelling of the
cloud and a return of moral and financial
sunshine.					S. M. K.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M.D.
		ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
   Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a half
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a m. to 3 p. m. 

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		jel5

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and  
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
	
BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand.

			NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which  larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$13 00
15 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		    48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-  
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
