Vol. 2.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, July 15, 1873.	NO. 4.


EDITORIAL NOTES
	New York talks of having a State Park,
in the Adirondack district, to cover 834,000
acres of ground.
	The Present date is the third anniver-
sary of the day in which Napoleon declared
war against Prussia.
	The health of Vice-President Wilson
is reported to be in bad condition, he having
become a paralytic invalid.
	The earth has been shaking at Buffalo,
making three alarming attempts at a quake
within four and a half hours.
	The cholera plague has abated in Nash-
ville, Tennessee, and late reports represent
the city as being in a healthy condition.
	The Fairbanks, now worth $3,000,000,
borrowed five dollars to make their first
scale. Few young men could get a "respect-
able," dinner with such a beginning now-a-
days.
	Full Grown frogs are reported to have
been rained down in Columbia, S. C., the
other day. Are the plagues of Egypt to
visit our country with all the other novel-
ties?
	Unprecedented rain storms are re-
ported in Illinois, Ohio and Indiana, great
damages having been sustained thereby,
with much loss of grain crops, buildings,
fences and stock.
	Boston has been sensationalized by a
little perfomance of a wife shooter, who
acted the part he had chosen without a
hitch, shooting his poor victim dead and
afterward repeating the dreadful action on
himself.
	Pioche came near being disinhabited a
few mornings ago; an intoxicated desperado
taking the job in hand, shot four men to be-
gin with, and would probably have finished
the work but for the interference of the
police.
	Much excitement has been awakened
among the eaters of pork in Calhoun county,
Illinois, where hog cholera morbus is killing
off promising pigs. They don't relish Jew
custom in so great a degree as their better
senses compel them to adopt.
	Tornadoes and conflagrations, reports
of which crowd the daily newspapers, con-
tinue in all portions of the country. The
judgments of the Lord are being poured out
upon the nations of the earth, but they
realize it not and acknowledge not His
hand.
	It is reported of Nilsson, the sweet song-
stress, that since her marriage, her voice
has gained in volume, evenness and rich-
ness. We have heard of matrimony with
its varying scenes having improved the
voice of other women, where their husbands
were neither flattered nor pleased by the
change.
	Eugene City, Oregon lost six thousand
dollars worth of logs, carried away by high
water, while fifty-five thousand dollar's
worth of property was burning up at Birch
Hill, Providence; a little mixing of such
matters would be to the point some times,
if they could but be brought to work in the
proper manner.
	Eugenie, late Empress of France, fondly
entertains the belief that her country will
again be first among nations; that Roman
robbery will be defeated, the Pope and
peace and prosperity restored. Eugenie is
happy in building her air castles.
	The late Hon. Horace F. Clark, who
died on the 19th of June in New York,
besides being a large railroad proprietor and
a distinguished lawyer, was son-in-law to
the rich old Comodore Vanderbilt, whose
wealth he would have inherited had the
old Comodore but have gone first. He
was in the fifty-eight year of his age, a sound
thinker and reasoner.
	In Siam there are some restrictions placed
upon men who are polygamists. They can
only cast away first wives by divorcement;
but any other wife after, they can sell or
trade if they choose. Had the polygamic
wives of Latter-day Saints similar injustice
to contend with, outside lookers-on might
well prate, or be rendered speechless from
sympathetic disgust.
	Another ship wreck occurred on Satur-
day, the 5th, inst., on the Western coast.
It was the steamer "Washington." This
time there is little related of that horrifying
nature which generally accompanies accounts
of such disasters; of five hundred and nine
passengers, who were on the ship, together
with the Captain, officers and crew, not one
life is reported lost.
	Recently at a free public reading room
in England, the wife of Fawcett, the dis-
tinguished professor and writer on political
economy, was requested to leave the room
as it was not intended for women. Mrs.
Fawcett pluckily carried the case to the
head commissioners on public libraries, and
won the day, as she had a right to do. The
company was informed that women have a
right to the use of free libraries and public
reading rooms.
	The Indian question does not appear to
be approximating very rapidly towards an
answerable point. Fresh disturbances and
dissatisfaction are being constantly strirred
up among them, chiefly through the dis-
honesty and unfairness with which they are
met by unprincipled white men, whose
treatment towards them, whenever circum-
stances will admit, shows that they are far
inferior to the Indians whom they despise;
and as such they should be dealt with by
honorable men.
	Fifty or one hundred pounds have been
offered by an enquiring Englishman, toward
the completion of a telescope that shall be
powerful enough to discover human beings
—if they exist—in any of the spheres. The
ascertaining of such truths would be de-
cidedly interesting. But would it not be
too discomifitting to many of the surplus
carpet baggers, who prowl about in quest of
prey, if no means should be dicovered by
which they might immigrate thither to find
fault with the laws and obtain paying offices?
	The Walworth murder case assumes
strange and uncertain aspects. A friend of
Mrs. Walworth ventures to admit that
Frank has been guilty of “faulty logic;” and
Mrs. Julia H. Holmes writes thus concern-
ing the affair: "The intimate friend and
confidant of Mrs. Ellen Hardin Walworth,
I know the terrible facts which led to this
fearful tragedy—facts which I shrink from
revealing, out of regard for her delicate
reserve—facts so appalling and unendurable
they must make a perfect revision in public
sentiment when they come to be divulged
(as they must in the course of the trial.)"
	Civilization, where it passes such
brutal conduct with so slight attention as
the following telegram indicates, becomes
an abomination: A Chinaman employed on
a ranch about six miles north of Stockton
was yesterday subjected to most inhuman
treatment at the hands of his employer, by
whom he was accused of stealing $400; and
to extort a confession the rancher hung him
several times to the limb of a tree, and beat
him nearly to death notwithstanding the
victim's protestation of innocence. The
perpetrator of the outrage was subsequently
arrested on a charge of assault and battery
and fined twenty dollars.
	An interesting account is given by an
Oneida journal of a young Russian woman
by the name of Catherine Dickhova, who
has lately come to America. It describes
her as being higly educated and talented
though not yet twenty-one.  At the age of
sixteen she graduated with high honors at
Kasan and received the badge of her Em-
press, being one of four women who alone
have won such distinction in forty years;
this gives her the privilege of appealing to
the Emperor for any favor, and also of
attending court balls. There being no
schools in Russia where she could pursue
the higher branches of education, and being
unsatisfied with what she had received, she
employed private tutors for four years and
was then examined by the faculty of Moscow.
A poetess, novelist and correspondent of a
monthly journal published at St. Petersburg,
she has come to this country to study the
Womans movement and examine the medical
colleges for women, with the view of assist-
ing those of her own country. She is the
daughter of a General of Artillery in St.
Petersburg, her mother being a princess.
	Nearly all the leading men of Spring-
field, Massachusetts, have signed a petition
asking a young lady teacher in one of the
public schools to become a candidate for
County Superintendent of schools, to which
position she is eligible under a recent law.
Women are already being asked to occupy
responsible positions; by and by they will
have the liberty to do as much hard work
of any kind as they choose; and with the
present increasing frequencies of one ex-
treme following another, it is not altogether
inconsistent to contemplate, that after a time,
they will not only be permitted but required
to do much work of a laborious nature which
has hitherto been performed by men; and it
is not impossible, if the depravity of the
present generation should continue to in-
crease, for American men to become as great
tyrants and their women as helpless slaves
as those of China or Hindostan. Yet with
the advantages which the American woman
possesses for gaining enlightenment, such a
course of events need hardly be feared for
her daughters a few generations hence. But
the prospects of revolutions fast approaching
are forewarners which will bear noting with
due consideration.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TOIL ON.

TO THE TEACHERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Toil on, toil on, co-workers here,
	Though your lot be in the lowliest sphere;
	Toil on, toil on, though your task be hard,
	Let the end and aim be heavenward.

	Toil on, toil on, with heart and mind,
	Feet to the weary, eyes to the blind;
	Seeking fresh courage to impart,
	Searching the depths of the human heart

	Toil on, toil on ye cannot tell.
	The many souls ye may win from hell,
	Lead from the depths of darkness and night,
	To a wor'd of everlasting light.

	Toil on, toil on, doubt not, nor fear,
	Speak words of comfort, sweet words of cheer;
	Scatter abroad the precious seed,
	That touches the heart, in its greatest need

	Toil on, toil on, let each passing day,
	Its record bear of its happy sway 
	O’er the young, in teaching the true aim of life. 
	How to live maiden, mother and wife.

	Toil on, toil on, ye shall yet be strong;
	To gather the good, as ye pass along,
	Rich stores of knowledge, wise forethought,
	That poets have sung, and sages have taught.

	Toil on, toil on, 'till your tasks are oer,
	And earth greets your weary steps no more.
	And a radiance effulgent gleams from on high,
	O,er the earth worn spirit, and death dim'd eye;

	And heavenly messengers ear away.
	The spirit freed from its casket of clay,
	To a world where the shadow of death is unknown,
	Nearer, yet nearer, our Father's throne

	There to take up the endless chain,
	With sorrow no more, nor toil nor pain,
	No more of earth's battle, nor care, nor strife,
	Learning pure systems of heavenly life. 
										A. B.S.
Beaver City.


R. S. REPORTS.

    Information from the Richfield Relief Soci-
ety, which was organized on the 4th of
January, 1872, with Mette C. Peterson as
President, Eliza A. Ogelvie, and Annie
Hanson Counselors, Annie B. Nielson Sec-
retary, Berta S. Hanson Treasurer. These
sisters have all acted and do still act in their
respective places. We have contributed for
the emigration of the poor from Europe $70,
to the poor at home, $34; have in the Co-op-
erative store, $30, and in the Treasury $36.
Which is a fair indication, we think, that
the sisters in general are alive to the inter-
ests of the Kingdom of God. We have
monthly meetings which are well attended
and the sisters, with few exceptions, are
taking an active part in aiding the progress
of the Society, which with late additions
numbers over 100 members. Wishing the
success of every good enterprise, including
the valuable WOMAN'S EXPONENT, we re-
main
	Respectfully your sisters in the Gospel,
		METTE C. PETERSON, President
		ANNIE BENNEDICT NIELSON Secretary.

    Minutes of the 60th meeting of the Senior
and Junior C. R. A., held June 21st, 1873,
at the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt
Lake City: Meeting opened by singing “On
the mountian tops appearing,” etc. Prayer
by Counselor Zina D. Young. Singing “Do
what is right,” etc. Minutes of previous
meeting were read and accepted, also
minutes of meetings of the 8th and 11
Wards were read. Remarks by President
Mrs. M. I. Horne, in which she observed that
“in speaking we should speak slowly so that
the Secretary can get what is said accur-
ately. When counsel is advanced each one
ought to receive it, and not depend upon
others for that which is given to be done.
Very little is being done in relation to our girls
learning to be printers. Young ladies can
receive higher remuneration at some other
employment than printing  that work is
not sought after. The subject of medicine
and nursing the sick may still be made in-
teresting and profitable. My daughter is
recovering from a very severe attack of
erysipelas. I applied cranberry poultices
to the parts that were affected where I
could, and where I could not I washed the
places with the liquor; for a purgative, gave
rhubarb and magnesia, and for drinks,
cream of tartar and toast-water. For in-
flammatory rheumatism, brown some poke
root and apply it with whisky.” Mrs. P. L.
Kimball said the subject of doctoring and
nursing the sick was highly important.
She had had much experience in nursing the
sick, considered that faith and works should
go together. When a girl she had the inflam-
matory rheumatism and her mother cured
her with cedar oil. “For erysipelas, to drink
mountain sage tea is an excellent thing; it
purifies the blood. I am pleased that this
subjet has been agitated. May God bless
and comfort us and save our children from
destruction is my prayer in the name of
Jesus.” Mrs. Higbee was thankful to
meet with the sisters; had been absent for
some time, having been sick, and among the
sick; had been visiting the sisters in Ogden
and Evanston, who attend to their sick them-
selves and do not employ doctors, which
was praiseworthy. If mothers wish to pre-
serve their children they should not expose
their arms and chests as so many do. They
should teach their children righteousness.
Prayed that every Latter-day Saint might
live faithfully and be prepared for that
which was to come. Mrs. Walker made
some very good remarks. President Mrs.
Horne said that in as much as they had a
subject she would like the sisters to cofine
themselves to it as much as possible. Mrs.
E. J. Pratt said her experience in relation to
sickness had been limited in comparison to
that of many others. When entering a sick
room, they should be self-possessed; all fevers
are brought on by colds. The best cure for
yellow fever is castor oil and brandy toddy.
For consumption, one ounce of flax seed and
one ounce of bone set boiled in one quart of
water; strain it and add one pint of molasses
and one quarter of a pound of sugar. Take
one table spoonful three times a day. Tea
made from strawberry leaves, and mutton
broth is excellent for dysentery. Another
remedy for consumption is to make rye
mush without salt and eat for evening meal.
For inflammation in the eyes apply corn-
meal poultices. Counselor Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball read a select article on hygiene. The
same subject to be continued next meeting.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Singing
“The time is far spent,” etc. Benediction
by Counselor Mrs. E. Howard.
				M. M. GROO, Secretary.

	We received from Hyrum, Cache Co., the
following, under date June 21st, 1873. Dear
Sister: Knowing your desire for the well-
fare and interest of the Relief Societies, I
take pleasure in letting you know how we
are moving. At our annual meeting which
took place in May, we had a very good
time and were blessed with good instruc-
tion from our Bishop and Elder G. P. Ward,
upon the duties and blessings of our calling.
The sermon of President Young to the
Relief Societies was read by the Secretary;
also the Report of the Society for the past
year which was very satisfactory. Our in-
come was $116:60, and this amount has been
given for the emigration of the poor from
the Old World, and to the sick and poor at
home; also $40 for a Sunday School library.
And since our meeting we have given $44
to the P. E. Fund which will be accounted
for on our books the ensuing year. Our
Society has been and is a great blessing to
us, and none but those engaged in the good
work can realize its value. Your valuable
paper is a great help to us in our labors. In-
closed please find the cash, and list of sub-
scribers for a club for the second volume of
the EXPONENT. This club is composed of
our Scandinavian sisters, and we propose to
meet once a week and learn to read the
English language. Wishing you every
prosperity and success I remain your sister
in the Gospel,
	CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST, President.

	The Relief Society of Moroni reports as
follows; June, 1873:
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	DEAR SISTER:—The EXPONENT has but
lately been circulated in Moroni, therefore
we are rather late in sending you a report of
our Society. However, we are improving
and hope, by the blessings of the Lord, to
always be found willing to assist in any good
undertaking. The word “Female” has been
omitted from our Society by a unanimous
vote. The EXPONENT is a very valuable
little paper, and we pray heaven to bless
its Editor and all who seek to promote the
cause of truth.
			Your sister,
			      JANE BAILY, President.

	From Heber City, June 29th, sisters Ellen
Lee and Melissa Reynolds, clerks of the
Society, write as follows: On Thursday,
the 5th of June, we held our annual meet-
ing, in the Society hall. Meeting opened
by singing and prayer. The minutes of the
preceding meeting were read and accepted;
the financial reports for the year were then
read by the Secretary, showing that the
means collected had been faithfully and
honestly disbursed. Bishop Hatch being
present made some very excellent remarks
on our duties and privileges and the im-
portance of our being united, looking after
the wants of the poor, etc.  Brother Thomas
Giles addressed the meeting, said he was
pleased with the reports of the Society.
There was a goodly number present and all
seemed to enjoy a good feeling. The sisters
meet once a month to sew and do other
kinds of work. We want to be truly de-
nominated “Working bees in the Hive of
Deseret.”

	Minutes of the 61st meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation, 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt
Lake City, July 5th, 1873. President Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding, moved that as Mrs.
M. M. Groo was prevented from attending
the meeting by sickness, Mrs. L. Greene
Richards be appointed Secretary pro tem:
Carried. Singing, “May we who know the
joyful sound.” Prayer by Counselor Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard: Singing "Our God we
raise to thee." Minutes of the last meeting
were read and accepted. Secretaries of
Junior Associations read minutes of meet-
ings held in the 10th and 11th Wards. Presi-
dent Mrs. M. I. Horne said that judging
from their countenances she thought her
sisters felt well. The subjects which had
been dwelt upon in some of the late meet-
ings were still before them and still interest-
ing and unexhausted; but as sister Mercy R.
Thompson, who had lately returned from
Europe, was present, also sister Amanda
Smith, who had been absent from the meet-
ings for some time, she would like to hear
them and others speak as they might be


led. Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young was
always happy to meet with her sisters;
whenever circumstances prevented, she felt
she lost a chapter well worth reading. All
could not be measured by the same rule,
some could get their best sleep and rest in
the morning, others found it best to rise
early and take the fresh morning air.
Health should be considered in preference
to other matters. Bread made from Graham
flour was best for common use. This bread
should never be kneaded, but stirred with a
spoon; was better for having a little molasses
put into it. Mrs. M. R. Thompson rejoiced
that she was permitted to meet again with
her dear sisters; while she had been absent
from them in body, her thoughts had been
often with them; for the protection of God,
which had been constantly with her, she
attributed much to the prayers of her friends
at Salt Lake, for which she thanked them
and glorified Him. The Saints in England
she found a kind, warm and affectionate
people, had the privilege of crossing the
ocean in company with some of them; could
see the hand of the Lord made mani-
fest in the blessings poured out upon her
daughter while she had been gone, in an-
swer to her secret prayers; the very things
she had asked of Him had been granted.
She asked the Lord to bless the Saints who
had lately come to Zion, she had been
blessed in their society. Mrs. Amanda
Smith could say truly that the present was
a glorious day for the Saints. She regretted
that there was so much sickness among
them, and that sending for doctors had
become so prevalent. It was best to send
for the elders first She related an incident
in which her son was thrown from a horse,
his head badly injured so that it was con-
sidered hopeless that he should ever recover
his senses if his life were spared. She could
not endure the thought of her son's being an
imbicile all his life; bathed him and made
everything about him clean and sweet that
the angels might come and visit him; called
in as many elders as could kneel around the
bed and they all laid their hands on him
and prayed one after another; when awake
the boy raved and would not allow an elder to
approach him, but they came and adminis-
tered while he slept, and he did not awaken
until the following morning, when his senses
were clear and bright as ever, and he was
soon entirely recovered. The speaker re-
lated several other instances in which the
power of God had been made manifest
through faith, showing that washing and
anointing, administration and simple medi-
cines, such as the Lord will reveal to those
who trust Him, are preferable to the treatment
of doctors. For a bad case of canker, to wash
with a swab and wash of golden seal, bayebrry
and sage. Mothers in Israel would be held
accountable in that they allowed their
daughters to flounce and flirt and dress over
much like vain women of the world.
	Mrs. Z. D. Young remarked that after a
swab had been once used to wash a sore
mouth it should be thrown away and not
put again into the wash. Mrs. M. I. Horne
said she always had a cup of clean water and
washed a swab thoroughly after using it.
She felt that whatever was necessary would
be given to those who sought wisdom of
God. Canker was a poison, it often required
the use of one poison to cure another; for
diptheria, to swab the mouth and throat
with verdigris and water she had proven a
certain cure when life had been almost de-
spaired of. Counselor Mrs. S. M. Kimball
was gratified to see Sister Thompson safe
with her friends again, was witness to the
restoration of her daughter's health; was
impressed with what sister Smith had said.
Many children of the Saints did not manifest
that faith which their parents had known;
why was it that good seed did not at all
times bring forth good fruit? Mrs. Mar-
garet P. Young bore testimony to the gift
and power of faith, its potency in healing
the sick. Mrs. Wilmarth East, and Mrs.
Clark from Farmington made remarks. Pres-
ident M. I. Horne said as sister E. R. Snow
would likely be present at our next meeting,
and all would wish to listen to her, no sub-
ject would be chosen. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks. Singing "Praise God from
whom all blessings flow." Benediction by
Mrs. E. J. Pratt.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Mrs. A. R. R., writing to the “Rural
New Yorker," adheres to the time-honored
custom of washing on Mondays and gives
the following in its favor, in opposition to
the words of a correspondent of the same
paper, who does not believe in the practice:
	“If we keep the Sabbath, does it imply
that we must have confusion on the day
following? Do we sin in practicing those
habits of neatness and order on the Sabbath
which we follow through the week? Is it
any greater sin to return clothing, books,
etc., to their proper places after using, than
to throw them on beds, chairs, or the floor
to be picked up on Monday? Is it any
more labor, when we remove soiled clothing
to throw them in a tub of water to soak, than
it is to, hide them away in closets, under the
bed or in some other place out of sight, to be
searched for on Monday? Why have picked-
up dinners? It is no great task to prepare
food on Saturday enough to last two or
three days; or a picked-up dinner, even,
would not be so bad, with cheerful hearts
and pleasant words; for “better is a dinner
of herbs and love therewith, than a stalled
ox eaten with hatred.”
	Surely if we have kept the Sabbath as a
day of rest and holiness we should rise on
the following morning refreshed and with
enough of the spirit of the Sabbath to carry
us through one day, at least, without cross
words or looks; and as to those garments to
be finished, why they should have been
done the week before, or must be left until
the next wash. Many people seem to think
because they have a hard day’s work on
hand, they have also a free license to be
cross and fretful, and keep themselves and
the whole family in a state of mind which
is much more wearing to the constitution
than the labor they perform. 
	In well regulated homes, the house should
be in good order on Monday, the washing
done in the fore noon, or begun at least,
without the labor of looking through the
house for dirty clothes. We have for years
made it a rule to do no more washing in a
day than can be done in a forenoon, always
aiming to have the hair combed, and all in
order for dinner; and then a few hours all
to ourselves afterwards, or a pleasant ride
perhaps. If the week’s wash cannot be all
done in that time, or there are young chil-
dren whose clothes should be washed
oftener, we have two wash days, say on
Monday and Thursday—and we enjoy those
days as well as any of the seven; yes, and
when there are children around they enjoy
it, too, to wear old clothes, to play wash in a
basin of foaming suds, and not be scolded
for it. It is with us a never-to-be-dreaded
day. This does not apply to women who
have no conveniences for washing.”
	For burns or scalds apply immediately a
soft rag or lint saturated with strong spirits
of camphor, and keep it wet for an hour.
You will be surprised at the relief it affords.
[new column]
Another remedy, giving immediate relief
and healing quickly is to make a poultice of
boiling milk thickened with wheat flour,
spread on a cloth, pour over a little castor
oil and apply warm. For a bad burn or
scald, change often. 
	When wearied with work of mind and
body, a little pleasantry is often conducive
to health and cheerfulness. The following
examples for games are generally certain to
create innocent mirth.
	“The Bouquet."—Each player chooses a
flower, the name of which she secretly con-
fides to the leader of the game, who writes
them all down upon a card. She then turns
to her right-hand neighbor, saying, “I have
a bouquet, composed of such and such
flowers (naming them); which one will you
select, and what use will you make of it?”
Her companions, one after another, choose a
flower, and state what they will do with it.
When all have done this, the leader of the
game declares aloud the persons by whom
each flower is personated.
	Example. “Ladies and gentlemen: I
have here a charming bouquet, composed of
a bunch of violets, a white camelia, a damask
rose, a sprig of jessamine, a pink rosebud, a
brown imperial, a branch of hops, a yellow
dahlia, a blue campanula, and a Scotch thistle.
Which flower will you select, and what will
you do with it?”
A Lady.—. choose the damask rose, and
will wear it in my hair. 
A Gentleman.—And I the bunch of
violets, and will put them in a vase on my
table.
When the round of the company has
been thus made, the leader reveals the
names of those personating the different
flowers, by saying—
	“The damask rose is Mr.---, whom you,
Miss---, have chosen to wear in your hair.
The bunch of violets is Miss---, who is to
be placed in a vase on Mr---’s table,” etc.
etc.
	The Weathercocks.—The four corners
of the room are named after the four car-
dinal points, viz., North, South, East, and
West. The leader of the game takes the
part of Eolus, or the Wind, and stands in
the centre of the room; the other players
ranging themselves in one or more files.
The game begins by Eolus pointing to one
of the points from which the wind is sup-
posed to blow, at the same time calling out
its name, to which the other players must
respond by immediately turning in the
“opposite” direction. For instance, if the
wind cries “North,” the “Weathercocks”
must turn to the south, and so on. At the
word “Tempest,” every one must turn
around three times, returning afterwards
precisely to their former position. At the
word “variable,” they must “balance” back-
wards and forwards until the wind adds the
name of one of the cardinal points, “West” 
for instance, when they must “slowly” turn
to the east, instead of, as before, whirling
rapidly in the direction opposite to the one
indicated. When the wind names a point
“facing the one then occupied by the
weathercocks, instead of obeying its com-
mands they remain motionless. Any mis-
take is, of course, punished by the payment
of a forfeit.


A MISS Swift of Troy, New York, lately
eloped with a negro. That was rather too
swift for a white woman; she should have
been checked.
    BEES HAVE taught many a valuable lesson
—people in some portions of New Hampshire
have learned from them when they get too
thick to thrive, to "swarm."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

   Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
   Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
   Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							 Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.
				__
	A Woman’s rights paper is published at
Venice, Italy......A man at Gold Hill, Ne-
vada, fell on the railway track and had his
legs run over by six cars, the other day, and
still lived for a short time......The shooting
of a paper wad from a gun, was the origin
of a fire that burned up fifty acres of wheat
for a farmer in California......Pikes Peak is
11,497 feet above the level of the sea.........
Gunners in some portions of the country
now use pure kerosene for cleaning their fire
arms......A rattle snake was lately killedat
San Diego, California, which measured nin e
inches in circumference and had eighteen
 rattles on its tail......The first of May, of the
present year is famous for its frequent me-
teors......Massachusetts has one hundred and
forty thousand dollars invested in railroads.
......Twelve small planets have been dis-
covered since the beginning of last year......
A steam-wagon is to run from Nashville to
Pulaski, Tennesee, commencing regular
trips in October next......A new telegraph
instrument is in operation, with the Western
Union Telegraph Company..........Hampton,
Virginia, has an institution for tecnical
education, where colored students who are
unable to bear the whole of their expenses
are furnished employment, and thus given
the means of helping themselves......A new
design for a steel locomotive boiler has been
made at the works of the London and North-
western Railway......One of the first mow-
ing machines ever invented in America
was the Baily, in 1822......It is said that the
most rational way of making steel is to
remove carbon from iron; but a wag reckons
“steal” might be more easily made by
removing silver from a safe, provided the
agent was quite “safe” himself......“Lippin-
cott,” for June, speaks of counterfeit emer-
alds which it is utterly impossible to
distinguish from the real gem, by the aid
of the eye alone......Gainsboro’ in Jackson
County, Tennessee, has a six-year-old math-
ematical prodigy, who makes astonishing
disclosures as to his ability as a natural
calculator. Another Horace Greeley, or
something like......George Ripley is reported
to have won himself the name of being the
best book critic in this country......England,
last year, recorded the marriage of eleven
grooms over eighty years of age; it looks as
though old England was beginnig to renew
her age......New York is agitating the im-
portance of preparing peat and similar
products for fuel......Louisaina is still dis-
turbed over her two governors............
There is to be seen in the pavilion of the
Ministry of Agriculture, at Vienna, a float-
ing cannon ball weighing 50 pounds.......A
man in Tennessee gives directions for spirit
writings on a slate, in which he says the
room of course must be dark, spirits won’t
write otherwise; this is that your spectators
may not have opportunity to watch you too
closely while you write as you please.........
The weavers of Berlin have made a strike
for higher wages.......Burton, the actor says
one half the work required to make a good
actor would make a rich man in any other
profession......The mysteries of the death of
Captain Hall, the arctic explorer, are to be
 examined into by Secretary Robeson.........
A great scandal in high life is being brought
to light in the New York Walworth murder
case......Broad Street, St. Giles, London,
once had a sign composed of a painting of a
woman without a head and the inscription
“The Good Woman,” condensing in a small
space the opinions of some men who con-
sider themselves great ones......A writer
 summarizes the history of civilization in
nine words, “The more you know the more
you can perform.”......The London School
Board, composed of men and women dis-
tinguished in physical as well as social
science, is now using its power to compel the
attendance o fchildren at school....The charac-
teristic element of modern science is the
quantative element, “how much” instead of
“how well” can be done, and too little care
is taken in the accomplishment of almost
anything that is performed.....J. P. Quincy
says “doubt any one’s good sense who
speaks scornfully of newspapers.........The
German population are counted among
the most industrious and economical citizens
of St. Louis......The capital of the American
Financial Corporation is limited to $1,000,-
000......A New York paper thinks that as a
cheap advertising dodge, the postal card
have become a nuisance......Bishop Ville, of
Parma, Italy, has forbidden the reading of
liberal newspapers in his jurisdiction......
Farmers are advised to marry in July, as
that is generally the natural hay-day of their
happiness......Chief Justice Chase is said
to have had a perfect mastery of Shakes-
pear, Milton and the earlier British poets.
......Bogus Charley, the Modoc warrior is
only about twenty years of age, a slender,
athletic, intelligent young man......L. E.
Crittenden delivered the address at the
inauguration of the statue of Ethan Allen,
on the 4th of July......A pretty compliment
to a lady is now considered thus, “a most
amiable lady worthy to be the maiden aunt
of the whole human race.”


﻿TERRITORIAL NORMAL INSTITUTE.
The happy idea of taking advantage of the
long summer vacation, which occurs yearly
during the months of July and August, to im-
provise a Normal School or lnstitute seems to us
to be fraught with great good to our educational
interests. There is no direction in which labor
can be spent more profitably and advanta-
geously to the rising generation than in teach-
ing our young and inexperienced teachers how
to preside and direct in the school room.
	When we reflect that Utah has had to use in
the school room as teachers, many whose op-
portunities for acquiring a thorough education
have been very limited indeed, we hail the
inauguration of the Institute with much
gratification, and only wish that our circum-
stances were such as to allow us the pleasure
of spending a portion of time daily in attend-
ance.
	We are pleased to learn that forty-eight
pupil teachers are in attendance from Salt Lake
County, with a few from Weber, Sanpete, Juab,
Morgan and Beaver counties; total seventy-
eight.
	We learn incidentally that the Superinten-
dent of Schools, has shouldered the burden of
engaging Dr. Park, Miss M. E. Cook, Professors
Maeser and Dusenberry to conduct the Insti-
tute; and in this matter it is to be hoped,
his efforts will be sustained, financially, that
he may have satisfaction in his labors.


﻿PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

	Many good and seasonable ideas were ad-
vanced at the Sabbath School Teacher’s Con-
vention, held in this city on the evening of the
7th inst. One of the most impressive facts
specified, was the inconsistency of parents
pursuing one course and endeavoring to teach
their children to walk in the opposite direction.
It was adduced that where a family of children
were known not to attend Sabbath School,
searching into the cause, almost invariably
brought to light the truth of the nonattend-
ance of their parents at the church meetings.
	It is a question if there are not many well
meaning parents, who fail to consider the im-
portance of their children’s receiving a proper
understanding and forming habits of observing
the Sabbath day. But if parents do not enjoy
the spirit of the religion they profess, to a
sufficient degree to enable them to appreciate
and delight in the sacredness of keeping holy
the Sabbath of the Lord, according as He
hats commanded, it is but folly for them to
seek to impress upon the minds of their chil-
dren that which they themselves do not feel.
It is worse than nonsense for parents to expect
their offspring to regard a principle they con-
temn or do not practice. It would be well if
parents visited the Sabbath schools often and
manifested the same interest in them that most
of them would be pleased to see their children
evince. And if fathers and mothers, among
the Latter-day Saints would have their sons
and daughters pure in heart and wise in un-
derstanding, let them walk circumspectly in
advance, thinking pure thoughts and living
pure lives.
	Even plurality, which is by many, thought
to be the most difficult of all God’s revealed
laws to be understood and accepted, is, by the
righteous and just course of a considerate father
and mother and agreeable co-workers, rendered
to the feelings of children a sacred and beauti-
ful point of doctrine.
	To instill into the minds of the young, the
principle of paying tithing, was also brought
into careful consideration during the evening of
the Convention. And what principle is there,
pertaining to the Gospel of Christ, which en-
sures happiness to young and old, more than 
this one, which is calculated to remove from
the thoughts and feelings all selfishness? As
soon as children are old enough to understand, 
this law should be taught them, and with this
as with all others—example weighs much more
than precept.


"THE BEST PHYSICIAN."
	
	Sobriety and temperance go farther towards
preserving health of mind and body, and help-
ing people to live long upon the earth, than all
other prescriptions put together. The quality
and quantity of food and drink taken into the
stomach has much influence over the mind and
senses. It should be a leading rule in regard to 
diet, never to overload the stomach. A small
portion of food can be better digested than a 
large portion which injures the coats of the
stomach, and prevents them from exerting 
their force. There can be no fixed standard,
as a rule for what shall be eaten; for the organ- 
ized system as well as taste, differs so greatly 
in individuals. One may eat freely of a certain 
kind of food, and realize only good results;
while partaking of a like substance might prove
very injurious to another. Observation and
self study must determine the kinds of food best
suited to different persons, in all seasons of the 
year. The real object of eating should not be
exclusively to satisfy the appetite. The sensa-


tion of hunger, it has been observed by a man
of extraordinary good sense, is to incite living
beings to supply the wants of their earthly
bodies; and the abatement of this sensation
generally denotes that such wants have been
supplied. The satisfying of the appetite so
far, is pronounced a matter of consideration;
but a prudent person will observe the mode in
which the appetite is best satisfied, and, at the
same time the frame most abundantly nour-
ished, for the latter, ought to be the chief object
of eating. To the temperament, age and
strength of the eater, should the quantity of
food be proportioned; but too great variety, or
other than plain, wholesome food should be
avoided by all. Also sudden changes from one
extreme of living to another. If a change is
required, it should be made by degrees, very
cautiously. The appetite for food and drink,
with its liability to increase or become deranged,
should not be held as a regulator for the quan-
tity to be taken. If judgment were consulted
and adhered to instead, many difficulties migh
thus be prevented. Taking into the stomach
anything that weakens the body or makes it
heavy or torpid, serves also to unfit the mind
for proper exercise and exertion. But temper-
ance in everything purifies and gives vigor
and vivacity to the senses, strengthens and
quickens the memory, mitigates the passions,
enhances the love for virtuous enjoyment,
beautifies and harmonizes all thoughts, words
and actions and may well be styled the best of
all physicians, the wisest of all counselors and
the truest of all friends. For it is really the
spirit and power of true religion. And if people
would only listen to and never offend or slight
this great friend, there would be but little work
for other physicians to do. Occasionally there
might occur an accident, such as the breaking
of a limb or the bruising of a head; but is not
disobedience to the laws of temperance, the most
prolific cause of even such injuries, and in most
instances, the chief occasion of their worst
results? When the blood has been inflamed
or the functions of any organs of the body dis-
ordered by intemperance, the pains of any hurt
must be more violent and the injury itself more
dangerous for the preceding evils committed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	No letter from our correspondent at Beaver
this issue. The readers of the Exponent will,
with us, regret an omission of those ever
welcome and highly entertaining and suggestive
communications, with which we have been so
greatly favored.
	The City Council of this city has passed an
ordinance regulating the manufacture and sale
of spirituous and fermented liquors, which it is
to be hoped, will have the partial effect de-
sired in limiting and controlling the traffic and
too frequent use of liquor.
	After long days of excessively warm, dry
weather, came, courteously and cheeringly
down upon this city, a few refreshing drops of
rain, during the morning of the 11th isnt.,
between two and three o'clock. Not many of
the inhabitants could have been aware of it
though, for the shower was not heavy enough
to awaken the sleeping multidues.
	Work on the Temple goes on encouragingly,
so we thought while lately viewing inside
the block, the number of busy masons, and the
large quantity of granite, a considerable portion
of which was hewn  ready for laying in its place.
It would be gratifying to see all the Saints
unitedly and faithfully supporting the energetic
efforts of their leaders to complete a house
wherein all the ordinances of the holy Gospel
﻿could be adminestered for the living and the
dead. We were pleased to see quite a number
of boys, learning stone cutting, thus, not only
assisting in so good a work, but also acquiring
a useful occupation that may benefit them
through life.
	So carefully and silently was the closing
portion of the return trip of Miss Eliza R.
Snow conducted, that not until Thursday, the
fourth day after her arrival, when the return of
her brother, President Lorenzo Snow, to Brig-
ham City, was noticed in the daily papers, was
it suspected by many of her friends that she
was again safe at her home in this city, which
she reached on the evening of Sunday, the 6th
inst. Miss Snow is looking well, feeling well,
and rejoices at being again in the midst of
the Latter-day Saints, the people whom she
loves.
	The Glorious Fourth came and went peace-
fully and pleasantly this year, as it always does in
this city. The Fireman’s parade in the morning
was worth ever so much booming of cannon
and cracking and roaring of guns and pistols
which Utah boys don’t indulge in now as they
were wont to do in days gone by, ere they were
shown the impropriety of wasting so much
ammunition unnecessarily. And the concert
entertainment at the Tabernacle in the after-
noon, was par-excellent; the fire-works in the
evening, exceedingly pleasing and enlivening.
Altogether, every one who whished to spend
the Anniverary of American Independence jubi-
lents had ample resource for being gratified.
	A proposition has been lately made, to have
an iron steamer built for pleasure excursions on
the Great Salt Lake; and a gentleman of this
city proposes a home manufactured one from
beginning to end. The enterprise; if entered
into, will be new in Utah, and interesting to
many. Why are not more boys of suitable age
and inclinations, put to learn trades of different
kinds where efficient tradesmen may be found
to instruct? To understand the entire construc-
tion of a ship "from keelson to top-mast," is
worth something to a man. And besides this, 
there are many useful trades which boys of
strength and energy would do better to learn
and practice, than to grow to be men, knowing
nothing but how to stand behind a counter and
measure off tape and ribbon, or perform some
other light work, which legitimately belongs
to ladies.
	Civilization (?) creeps into our midst in all
forms, and warns all honest people to be cautious
how, where and with whom they walk, talk or
become in any way acquainted. The "Ogden
Junction" tells a story of a man being drawn
into a gambling hole in that city, after having
been treated to intoxicating drinks by newly
formed acquaintances, and there victimized
out of one thousand dollars—“his little fortune,
his all, which he had earned after years of toil.”
Such stories used to appear in newspapers of
the outside world, but were read with little effect
by children of Utah, many of whom gave little
credence to them, realizing in so small a degree
anything like the selfishness and impurity
which exists upon earth. But "civilization (!)"
has come nearer home now, and it requires a
constant effort to keep its contaminating in-
fluences from overpowering the true structures
of honor and integrity.
	We have been pleased to meet with a num-
ber of young teachers and advanced learners
who are in town from different parts of the
Territory, attending the Normal Institute and
receiving instructions under the able manage-
ment of Professor Park. A portion of the
young men and young women of Utah, it is
gratifying to note, are always on hand and
eager to avail themselves of such opportunities
for developing their intellectual faculties,
which, until recently, have never been afforded
them. The suggestions offered during the
course of the normal class, will without doublt,
be of great advantage to inexperienced teachers;
and, as one of the Institute’s intelligent young
lady pupils remarked to us, "It is well for us to
get all the knowledge of correct order and
discipline, and all the true understanding we
caneven if we have no intention of becoming
school teachers."


SEWING ON BUTTONS.

	The editor of the “Danbury News” thus
facetiously describes the male process of
sewing on a button; our brother editor is
probably a man of experience: “Sometimes
the patient wife scalds her right hand, or
runs a sliver under the nail of the index
finger of that hand, and it is then that the
man clutches the needle around the neck,
and forgetting to tie a knot in the thread,
commences to put on the button. It is
always in the morning, and from five to
twenty minutes after he is expected to be
down the street. He lays the button exactly
on the site of its predecessor, and pushes the
needle through one eye, and draws the
thread after, leaving about three inches of
it sticking up for lee way. He says to
himself: “Well, if women don’t have the
easiest time I ever see.” Then he comes
back the other way, and gets the needle
through the cloth well enough, and lays
himself out to find the eye, but in spite of a
great deal of jabbing, the needle point per-
sists in bucking against the solid parts of
that button, and finally when he loses
patience his fingers catch the thread, and
that three inches he had left to hold the
button slips through the eye in a
twinkling, and the button rolls leisurely
across the floor. He picks it up without a
single remark, out of respect for his chil-
dren, and makes another attempt to fasten
it. This time when coming back with the
needle he keeps both the thread and the
button from slipping by covering them with
his thumb, and it is out of regard for that
part of him that he feels around for the eye
in a very careful and judiceous manner; but
eventually losing his philosophy, as the
search becomes more and more hopeless, he
falls to jabbing about in a loose and savage
manner, and it is just then the needle finds
the opening, and comes up through the
button and part way through the thumb
with a celerity that no human ingenuity
can guard against. Then he lays down the
things with a few familiar quotations and
presses the injured hand between his knees,
and then holds it under his arm, and finally
jams it into his mouth, and all the while he
prances about the floor and calls upon heaven
and earth to witness that there has never
been anything like it since the world was
created, and howls, and whistles, and moans
and sobs. After a while he calms down, and
puts on his pants, and fastens them together
with a stick, and goes to his business a
changed man.”


﻿Mirrors laid over with gold are reported
to reflect sixteen times as powerfully as
ordinary quicksilver ones. 
	An aged couple who had been married
sixty-two years, lately attended a ball in
Newburyport, (Mass.), and took a lively
share in the festivities.
	Miss Nettie Wood has just been selected
a life member of a Hose Company of Schen-
ectady. The boys of that city have the fire 
of true gallantry.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿TWO LITTLE FEET.

	Two little feet, so small that both may nestle
		In one carressing hand
	Two tender feet upon the untried border
		Of life’s mysterious land;

	Dimpled and soft and pink as peach tree blossoms
		In April’s fragrant days;
	How can they walk among the briery tangles
		Edging the world’s rough way?s

	These white-rose feet along the doubtful future
		Must bear a woman’s load
	Alas! since woman has the heaviest burden
		And walks the hardest road.

	Love, for awhile, will make the path before them
		All dainty, smooth and fair—
	Will cull away the brambles, letting only
		The roses blossom there.

	But when the mother’s watchful eye is shrouded
		Away from sight of men.
	And these dear feet are left without the guiding,
		Who shall direct them then?

	How will they be allured, betrayed, deluded,
		Poor little untaught feet!
	Into what dreamy mazes will they wander,
		What dangers will they meet?

	Will they go stumbling blindly in the darkness
		Of Sorrow’s tearful shades?
	Or find the upland slopes of Peace and Beauty
		Whose sunlight never fades?

	Will they go toiling up Ambition’s summit,
		The common world above?
	Or in some nameless vale securely sheltered,
		Walk side by side with Love? 

	Some feet there be which walk life’s track un-
			wounded,
		Which find but pleasant ways;
	Some hearts there be to which this life is only
		A round of happy days.

	But they are few. far more there are who wan-
			der
		Without a hope or friend—
	Who find their journey full of pains and Iosses,
		And long to reach the end.

	How shall it be with her, the tender stranger,
		Fair-faced and gentle-eyed;
	Before whose unstained feet the world’s rude
			highway
	Stretches so strange and wide?

	Ah! who may read the future? For our darling
		We crave all blessings sweet—
	And pray that He who feeds the crying ravens
		Will guide the baby’s feet.
—“Lady’s Friend.”
							Florence Percy.


TRUE CRITICISM.

	When you wish to find fault with another,
choose an opportunity in private, and not
directly after the offense has been commit-
ted. Let it be too, after you have carefully
reflected upon the nature and importance of
the wrong which has been done. The cen-
sured are less inclined to resist when blamed
without witnesses. They are likely also to be
struck with the forbearance you have shown
in waiting until you could see them alone,
while noting the error all the while, or some
time before.
	If you are a husband, never accuse your
wife of taking little or no pains to please you,
of being neglectful of your comfort or of any
of the duties which especially belong to her.
If you have a wife who is careless in such
respects, the best possible criticism to offer,
if she be possessed of a heart, is, for yourself
to adopt the opposite course. Does she insist
on wearing an article of dress which is
decidedly distasteful in your eyes, or pur-
chase without consulting your judgment
and desires; ask her, when you intend to
buy a new hat or coat, which style she
thinks most becoming to you. And be sure
to get that which she fancies most. Her
taste, in such matters, is as likely to be
superior to your own as yours is to surpass
hers in relation to anything she wears. At
any rate, humor her feelings; it will do good
in more ways than one. She will not only
be ashamed of the selfishness she has mani-
fested, and lovingly confess the same by
carefully studying your choice and endeavor-
ing to suit it in future; but will also seek to
cultivate her own taste and gain a correct
understanding of your wants and needs,
that her judgment may be more worthy of
being consulted and trusted another time.
	In like manner, meet all her woman-
ish mistakes, and without a word of fault-
finding, fretful or harsh criticism, you will
soon have a model wife.
	Are you a mother, and you choose to
leave home for a few hours, charging the
little folks to keep out of mischief, the older
ones to look after the younger ones and all
to be very good, be careful with what spirit
you meet them on your return. Do not
look first to find out all that may have gone
wrong, but try to see something that has
been well done for which you may offer
a few words of affectionate encouragement
and appreciation. If you find Bessie out
doors with baby bare-headed, don’t let your
first words on coming up to them be hastily
spoken; don’t tell Bessie to “take that child
right straight into the house—he’ll be
tanned as black as a negro!” And add as
you follow them, that she deserves a good
whipping for having him out there, and
that you suppose everything else has been
managed in like manner since you went
away. But rather reflect a moment ere you
speak. Think if eight or ten-year-old Bessie
is not a good girl for remembering to take
care of her baby brother and keeping him
with her, even if she has not remained in
the house all the time while the other
children were romping and having fun out-
side. And if portions of the housework
that should have been seen to, are left
undone, let those be last, instead of first to
claim your attention. See what arrangments
have been nicely planned and where the
orders you left have been promptly fulfilled;
give loving words of praise and credit for
these, and then see how readily all the rest
will be accomplished and what great pains
will be taken another time to have nothing
left undone that is calculated to add to your
comfort and win your smiles and kisses of
approval. Take such measures in all things
with your children, and they will learn to
anticipate your desires even before they are
told, and to delight in gratifying them.
									G.


﻿THE HEART SUPREME.

	Nothing in the wide world is worth half
so much as love and peace.  Riches, and
station, and rank, and learning, and polish,
and genius are vanity, and less than nothing
when weighed in the balance with a kind,
genial, unselfish heart.  Have them all, if
you can; the first things are good additions
to the last, but they are wretched substitutes
for it.  It cannot be from necessity that they
are so often parted; there surely is no
“sufficient” reason why the good and noble
heart should be chilled, and hardened, and
inflated with pride, by the acquisition of the
things that make men great in the eyes of
their fellows.  The most elaborate culture,
the most subtle refinement, ought not to
render men selfish and vain.  Better blun-
der with the intellect than with the heart,
for in the heart, not in the head, lies
manhood; and the days will come when the
“Heart will be crowned and walk before,
when the understanding goes behind to do
its errands.”   “A new commandment I
give unto you, that ye love one another,”
								A.M.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	An exchange remarks that it is one of 
the pecularities of the boy, that he finds
himself unable to bathe, except, so to speak,
at the top of his lungs.
	GIRARD, Pennsylvania, claims a little
child, perfectly developed, which weighed
but three ounces at birth and seven ounces 
when three weeks old.
	EVERY child who is born, is born a soldier
in the grand army of the human activities,
and has to meet and face both friend and
foe, and wage a warfare that ends in
glorious success or inglorious defeat.
	THE youngest homicide is twenty-three 
months old and lives in Augusta, Ga. It
threw an ale bottle at its colored nurse, who
was lying on the floor, striking her in the
head and causing an abcess that proved fatal
in ten days.
	NASHVILLE has a black and white boy
combination. He is half black and half 
white, not in the mulatto sense, but the
lower half of his body is whiter than ordin-
ary white folks, while his upper half is as
black as midnight. On the top of his head
is a little patch of straight silken hair, sur-
rounded by kinky negro wool. 
	A SMALL boy, having been required to
write a composition on some part of the 
human body, expounded as follows: "The
Throat- A throat is convenient to have,
especially for roosters and ministers. The
former eats corn and crows with it; the
latter preaches through his'n and ties it
up."
	A STRANGE mystery, involving the al-
leged disappearance of eighteen helpless
children, who had been committed as infant
paupers to public institutions on Blackwell's
Island, is being investigated by the Com-
missioners of Charities. The little creatures,
it is said, were farmed out to a lady, and she
seems to be unable to tell whether they are
living or dead. 
	A DECLAMATION FOR A SMALL BOY.
Keep still! That's what they say to us boys.
Just as if there never had been any noise
in the world until we were born. Haven't
old folks all been boys and girls once?
Didn't some of them drum on the milk pans,
or crack nuts with the flat-iron, or slam the
doors, or come down stairs sliding down hill
fashion? Everything that is smart goes off 
with a "bang." This would be a dull
world if it were not for the racket the boys
make. Noisy boys are not always saucy.
Some are; but we don't train in that com-
pany. "We" belong to the "Boys Rattle-
te-bang Society of Good Manners," and we
invite all our young friends to come and
join us.
	When the Dark Cometh.—A little girl
sat, at twilight, in her sick mother's room,
busily thinking. All day she had been full
of fun and noise, and had many times wor-
ried her poor, tired mother. "Ma," said
the little girl, "what do you suppose makes
me get over my mischief and begin to act
good just about this time every night?" "I
do not know, dear. Can you tell me why?"
"Well, I guess it's because this is when the 
dark comes. You know I am a little afraid
of that. And then, ma, I begin to think of
all the naughty things I've done to grieve
you, and that perhaps you might die before 
morning, and so I begin to act good."
"Oh!" thought I, "how many of us wait till
the dark comes, in the form of sickness or
sorrow, or trouble of some kind, before we
begin to act good!" How much better to
be good while we are enjoying life's bright
sunshine! and then, 'when the dark comes’
—as it will, in a measure to all—we shall
be ready to meet it without fear."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
	HOME INFLUENCES.

"As Mother did”—“How Mother felt
and acted.”—“What mother taught”—are
the hinges upon which the world turns.
How carefully then, should “Mother” guard
herself against the temptations which lie in
her way, to anger, jealousy, impatience and
irritability of every kind! It will not answer
for her to be “cross,” no matter what the
occasion may be. She must wear the smile
of love and hopefulness; hers must be
words of cheerful trust and consolation un-
der the most trying circumstances; lest fret-
fulness and dissatisfaction be engendered
in the minds of her offspring.   She must
never allow the least envious or willful feel-
ing to have place in her heart, much less, find
utterance through her lips. Her thoughts
must be all of the highest and noblest nature,
or else she may give to the world sons and
daughters possessed of selfish and ungovenr-
able dispositions.
  If then, so much depends on “Mother”
to perform, if to her belongs so important a
part in making of the characters of men and
women—the Great Creator’s mightiest work
—how favorable should be her opportunities
for overcoming and disciplining her own
peculiar. Inclinations, in order that she may
the more completely and discreetly help to
characterize the dispositions and talents of
the coming generation! It is befitting her
to strive, energetically and continuously, to
school and master herself in all respects,
wisely and thoroughly; and in doing so, she
should not lack encouragement and assist-
ance from those around her.  Let her not feel
that she only must immolate within herself
those natural vanitites and discordant flashes
of temper which human flesh is heir to; but
help her to  see  that it is, if possible, of
greater moment that she be circumspect in
her ways, than that others should, since her
influence upon the future world is more
than that of any other can be.   And let her
know, she does not labor and trust alone;
but that others are willing and anxious to
help her in every consistent way, to become
what she, desires  to  be, prompted  by the
worthiest ambition, and that which she
should be for the sake of the inevitable
results which must follow her self-culture
and self control.
 Let “Mother” do her  part, but not the
whole in making home-life what it should
be. If she must so carefully guard the feelings
of all, let her feelings be equally respected
by all.   If she is expected to bestow the
priceless gift of pure and earnest affection
in richer abundance than any other, let her
receive the more from others that her store
may be constantly replenished. If she be
required to exhibit patience and fortitude
more than the rest, let each one endeavor to
give her as little cause for vexation and to
make her burdens as light as possible.
Home should, be, indeed, the "dearest,
sweetest spot on earth!”  And nothing con-
tributes so much towards rendering it such,
or the contrary, as the course pursued and
the influence exercised by the mother.  Yet
that course, and influence depend, in their
nature, very much upon the aims and ways
of others. Some women may possess suffi-
cient strength of character to take the lead
and make home happy regardless of the
immunity indulged in by thoughtless, in-
different or willfully neglectful husbands
and fathers.  But even- this can never be
so pleasant as is the home where love is
mutual, and each one trys to be agreeable
and obliging; where the purity and gentle-
ness of one, softens and tones down the
[new column]
dignity and ardor of the other, while both
are strengthened, and rendered more endur-
ing by such generous reciprocity. 
								L.L.


CO-OPERATION OF A WIFE. 

	Upon this subject, some author, unknown
to us, has thus beautifully written: "No 
man ever prospered in the world without the
co-operation of the wife. If she unites in 
mutual endeavors, or rewards his labors with
an endearing smile, with what confidence
will he resort to his merchandise or his farm,
fly over lands, sail upon seas, meet difficulty
and encounter danger, if he knows that he 
is not spending his strength in vain, but
that his labor will be rewarded by the
sweets of home! Solicitude and disappoint-
ment enter the history of every man's life,
and he is but half provided for his voyage
who finds but an associate for happy hours,
while for his months of darkness and distress
no sympathising partner is prepared."
	It is worthy of note that all or nearly all
great and distinguished men have been 
the husbands of remarkably gentle and
highly intellectual wives. The following
story of Mrs. de Lafayette is illustrative of 
this fact:
	"Having been set at liberty in 1795, Mrs.
de Lafayette sent her young son George to 
Mount Vernon, to General Washington, who
received him as his own son, and she her-
self went to Germany to share her husband's
captivity. After many difficulties, she
arrived in Vienna, under the name of Mrs.
"Motier," an American lady. (Lafayette
indeed called himself "Motier," and he had
been admitted an American citizen.) This
courageous lady, having obtained private
audience of the Austrian Emperor, was
allowed to be shut up in the same dungeon
with her husband. Though in feeble health,
she remained there till the day when 
Lafayette's chains were broken. Her
presence was a balm for the prisoner's
wounds, and showed him that, in the most
cruel moments, the good man can yet taste
pure enjoyment.
	Mrs. de Lafayette was sincerely pious.
She fulfilled all her duties without ostenta-
tion, and shed a sweet charm in her domestic
circle. But let us hear Lafayette himself in
the touching letter which he wrote to one of
his friends after the death of his wife:
'During the thirty-four years of a union in
which her tenderness, her goodness, the
loftiness, delicacy, generosity of her soul
charmed, embelished, dignified my life, I
became so accustomed to all that she was to
me, as not to distinguish her existance
from my own. I never perceived in her the
slightest shade of exaction, of discontent,
anything which did not leave the freest
scope to all my undertakings; and if I go
back to the time of our youth, I find in her
traits of a delicacy and generosity without
example. You have always seen her associ-
ated heart and soul in my sentiments,
my political wishes, rejoicing in all that
could increase my reputation, rejoicing
especially when she saw me sacrificing op-
portunities of renown for a good principle.
*  *  Shall I tell you of the pleasure con-
stantly recurring which my entire confi-
dence in her afforded me,—a confidence 
never exacted,—justified by her well-tried
discretion, and by her admirable knowledge
of all the sentiments, wants, and wishes of
my heart?


UTE INDIANS have, in some instances,
become office seekers, and are gaining popu-
larity by stealing horses. They have been
taking lessons at Washington.


﻿THE SEX.

	MRS. J. A. Dunniway has announced that
she is a candidate for the office of Mayor in
Portland, Oregon.
	A CHINESE maiden, of delicate propor-
tions, brought  $5:75 at auction, in Idaho a 
few days since. 
	WHILE a pretty Omaha girl was getting
married, one of her jilted lovers sneaked
into a back room and smashed up the hand-
some bridal presents.
	WHEN you see a fresh bouquet of flowers
in a window every morning you may be 
almost sure that within the house there is a
woman of taste and goodness.
	IT is said that Mdlle, Cora Pearl, who was
sent out of France by the late Government,
has been allowed to return, like Prince Na-
poleon.  The coincidence has set the gossips
at work again.
	VERY large fans continue in fashion. 
They are of all patterns and prices.  Cheap
ones are most in favor. the ladies arguing
that the rapid changes in fashion justify
them in being economical.
	THE New Hampshire women, headed by
Sarah Foster, of Canterbury, have sent a
petition to the Legislature asking that the
property of women may be exempted from
taxation.  No vote, no tax, is their motto. 
	AN old lady in Indiana was buried  the
other day in the suit of clothes in which she
was married seventy-three years ago. It
was of linen throughout, and made of flax
she raised, spun, and wove with her own
hands. 
	A FATHER, in consoling his daughter who
had lost her husband, said: "I don't wonder
you grieve for him, my child.  You will
never find his equal.” 	 “I don’t know as I
can," responded the sobbing widow, "but
I'll do my best!" The father went home
comforted.
	Rev. Dr. Goodspeed, of  Chicago, said, in
the course of a Sunday's sermon, "The devil
understood what was necessary to blast
Eden, when he led the woman to be false
to God, to herself, to her husband.  A bad
woman,  an  untrue woman, is the prime
corrupter of society, and the destroyer of its
peace."
	THE women of Rochester who advocate
Woman Suffrage have held a meeting, or-
ganized a "woman's taxpayers' association,"
and adopted a constitution which says their
object is "to protest against taxation without
representation and to test the validity of 
laws governing women without their con-
sent."
	WHEN her Majesty, Queen Victoria, was
taken to task by a Right Reverend, years 
ago, for having Channing's works on her
table, and Her Majesty asked "why not?"
the eclesiastic unsuspectingly replied that
they contained very objectionable passages.
"Ah!" retorted the gracious Sovereign, "I
perceive you are before me in having read
them."
	THERE are women who love solitude and
live in it, who realize the idea that they
seek no joy but that which flows from the
depth of their own inner being.  Very few
people understand what infinite advantages
exist in solitude, especially for a woman. If
she be married and have children,  her
family circle is her solitude; if the contrary
be the case, her solitude is absolute, one "in
which she can actually live alone."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PROGRESS OF WOMAN’S RIGHTS.

  Miss Anna Nichols, of Massachusetts, has
recently been appointed assistant examiner
of the Patent office. The lady has for some
time very creditably fulfilled the duties of
clerk; and on the occasion of some vacancies
in the examinerships, she was one of several
ladies who competed for places.   All of the
candidates were subjected to general scien-
tific examination as to their capabilities for
the position, and four ladies  passed the
ordeal with much credit.  The Commis-
sioner, however, concluded to appoint only
one of them for the present, as a sort of
experiment.
  There are few duties connected with the
operation of the Patent Office but may be
efficiently performed by intelligent women
It is all indoor work, mostly of a fixed,
clerical nature, for which petticoats are
admirably adapted; and if the Commis-
sioner would make a more general use of
them, he would set free a large number of
pataloons to be usefully employed in develop-
ing the more direct outdoor industries of
the country, for which men -are, by nature,
so especially prepared.
   At Canandaigua, in this State, Miss Susan
B. Anthony, who insisted that she had as
good-a right to vote as any other man, and
who did vote at the last election, has been
tried, and, we regret to say, found guilty,
and fined for violating the law.   Judge Hunt
decided that, although women were entitled
to the general rights of citizens, there were
certain special privileges which the law of
New York, as it stands, did not give them,
one of which was the privilege of voting.
The law must, in the opinion of Judge
Hunt, be changed before our feminine fel-
low citizens can enjoy themselves at the
ballot box.
    In the meantime, the Commissioner hav-
ing wisely decided in favor of the eligi-
bility of women as patent examiners, we
shall hope to see his decision sustained and
ratified by the appointment of Miss Anthony
as his successor when he shall retire—and
that day we understand, is not far distant.
The lady in question is a female steamboat,
so far as untiring energyand useful capacity
are concerned.   She is, undoubtedly, com-
petent to manage a dozen or two sleepy
institutions like the Patent Office. We
nominate, for Commissioner of Patents, Miss
Susan B. Anthony, of New York, and Miss
Anna Nichols, for Assistant Commissioner.
— Scientific American,” July 5th.


CONFIDENCE.

    Have you never had a visitor come in and
say “I feel down-hearted to-day, and I
thought I'd come and see you.   I thought
you’d help me to feel better!"
   I doubt not you have; and did you appre-
ciate it?   This confidence in your judge-
ment,  your worthiness as a friend; this
appeal to your   sympathy, loving, deli-
cate, is a compliment better than one of ball-
room etiquette.  O my  sisters!  who toil
upward, by prayer, by earnest endeavor, by
submission to this or that course or circum-
stance, as Father chooses to appoint; what
better can we do, or be, than to be a support
to the down-hearted, to be worthy the confi-
dence of each other?
     How far below such a status are the
extravagant vanities which vex life? Where
in this do we see those jealousies and rival-
ries which the world call the attributes of
femininity?
    The woman who can be an acknowledged
support to another, can sustain herself in her


hour of adversity from a source  whose
qualities are an unfailing wealth.
  Then, welcome such visitors! for ye are
the culturers that call into existence the
best attributes which God has sown in the
earth of our natures and give us indepen-
dence which lessens not our womanhood.
								A. I. C.
Salt Lake City.


A FEW WORDS ON EMIGRATION.

 Through the medium of our friend and
companion, (the Exponent,) I would say a
few words to my sisters on a subject that
should interest all; and that is the emigra-
tion of the poor Saints from Europe.  The
hand of God has gathered us to these beauti-
ful vales, where we can enjoy peace from
the mobocrat, and freedom from the op-
pressor; and has poured blessings out upon
us without stint.  And shall we in return,
refuse to help those who are in want and
distress, depending upon us for aid?  Or
shall we stretch forth our hand in the
direction God has pointed out by His
servant, our beloved Leader, and enjoy the
sweet consolation of having done what God
required.  Inasmuch as our Father has
blessed us with much of this world's goods,
will He not hold us accountable for the use
we make of it?  And does He not require
us to share with those less favored than
ourselves. The way is now open, let us
walk in it ere it is closed.
	
	"If thou hast passed an aching heart,
	Turn back a little way;
	Let not thy giving be a part
	To act another day;
	Give while the weary eye is dim,
	And if a tear should fall,
	'Twould be in gratitude to Him,
	Who heard the mourner's call." 

	There is another consideration; and that
is, laying up treasure in Heaven, the only
place where treasure never fades. We
would all like to have something there to
our credit.  And when the time comes for
our actions to be weighed in the balances,
we shall want every good deed to weigh as
heavily as possible.  If we should lay  aside
some of our real or imaginary wants and
impart to the real necessities of others, I do
not see where the harm would be. And
this I do know, that “sacrifice brings forth
the blessings of heaven.”

	“When thy to-morrows all have passed,
	Kind acts will then appear
	Like angels waiting by thy side 
	To bless thee and to cheer.”
								M.L.M.
SALT LAKE CITY, July 1st, 1873


-
A DAUGHTER is almost always right when
she endeavors to imitate her mother; but it
is doubtful wheather the mother is equally
right when, at a certain period of life, she
tries all she can to imitate her daughter.
	THE Indians in Plumas County begin to
show signs of adopting the white man’s civi-
lization.  The Quincy “National” says that
the red men who reside in the vicinity of
Greenville have subscribed $200 for the
erection of a school house, and engaged Mr.
Summerland to manage the enterprise for
them.  It states also that the Indians on
the north side of the Plumas valley have
raised $300, to be devoted to a like purpose.
Now, here is a worthy object that the whites
ought everywhere to encourage.  It is bet-
ter to educate the Indians, teach them the
arts of husbandry, and have them become
lawabiding residents, than to be under a
constant state of apprehension from their
proximity as idlers and vagabonds, at any
time liable to get into difficulties with their
white neighbors.


CALDER & CARELESS,

	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City

Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine. 
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.   ie15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

				H. DINWOODEY,

	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE
	
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.
	
	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
nd there is none better - if as good - we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the TELEGRAPH WASHING MACHINE, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be 
addressed, "P.O. Box 474, Salt Lake City."
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

				NEW CLUB RATES.
	

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:

10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-		$13.00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-		  26.00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2.50		-	-	   34.00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-				    48.00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


﻿A VIENNA correspondent thinks that the
Austrian women owe their reputation for
beauty to the fact that many of them have
golden hair and black eyes.


Woman's Exponent.

