Vol. 2. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, August 15, 1873. 		No. 6.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES

	In Newark, New Jersey, some workmen,
in digging a well lately, struck “ile,” and
pumped, the first day, about two barrels of
good oil.  The owner, doubtless, considers
his fortune made, but in case of a fire on his
premises, the water sought might have
rendered it more complete.
	Conflagrations continue to do their
part in keeping alive the interest of the
news columns in daily periodicals. Port-
land, Oregon, has had the largest one of
recent date; while London, Philadelphia,
Boston and Concord are prominent among
the cities which report great losses by late
fires.
	The many pleasant notes of congratula-
tion and good wishes for our future pros-
perity and happiness, which the late addition
to our name continues to draw from generous
friends, call for acknowledgments on our
part. Thanks, dear friends; and may you all
live for and realize as great blessings as
your kind words indicate your desire for us.
	It is an interesting feature in the case of
Miss Susan B. Anthony, being convicted of
the crime of illegal voting, that the inspec-
tors of election who received her vote, must
suffer the same penalty she does, which can
not be made to exceed five hundred dollars
fine or three years imprisonment.
	M. S., Maids of Science, is a degree which
has been lately invented for lady graduates.
There should be some title of respect given
to energetic, yet plain consistent women of
the day, who can brave the taunts and jeers
of public criticism, and think and act for
themselves, and show that they have some
individual tastes and ideas of their own.
Why not confer on them the degree of W.
S., Women of Sense.
	It is stated, most positively by New York
papers, that Mr. Ewell, a Massachusetts
ornithologist has in his possession a white
robin; and also that a white robin is a bird
no oftener seen than a “white blackbird.”
If this be true, there may be hopes of worthy
men receiving paying offices yet, sometime
in the future; if blackbirds “can” be white,
it may be not impossible for a government
offiicial to be honest. However, the story
may be incorrect.
	A New Jersey father named Akins, lately
had his son locked up for making an assault
on him, the father; and so fearful was he
that his son might escape confinement and
take his life, that he went immediately and
made his will and put his property in a
settled shape, as if in anticipation of being
assassinated, and that by the hand of his
own son, who is twenty-one years of age.
Such a position may be an interesting one,
but we defer comment.
	Some people are apparently much exer-
cised over a divorce suit of Ann Eliza Webb
Young “vs.” Brigham Young; but it does
not appear to affect him, or to disturb his usual
serene mode, any more than previous tricks
which other short-sighted filibusters, have
sought to play on him, have done. The
case is proceeding in as lawless a manner
as is common in cases of the kind wherein
“Mormons” are concerned in Utah, under
its present Territorial official government.
	The Spirit of war seems to be diffusing
itself boldly and implacably among the
aborigines of the country. Some of their
tribes are apparently inclined to assist in
carrying out the extermination policy, from
the treacherous and blood-thirsty manner
in which they are butchering one another.
Whether this state of Indian affairs, is very
much due to the strange and irregular
course which is being pursued toward them
by government or not, it is evident that no
good feeling can be engendered among
them by misrepresentations and unfulfilled
promises.
	An official trial of the various improve-
ments in cabs was made at the International
Exhibition in London, recently by a com-
mittee of which the Duke of Beaufort was
chairman, and Lord Somerset and other
prominent persons were members. After
some time had been spent in examination,
it was decided that there was no special im-
provement in any of the cabs presented for
the prize competition; but it must have
been a laughable sight to witness those
notable dignitaries jumping in and out of
the cabs as if for sport—that was the way
they tried them.
	Two young heroines have lately distin-
guished themselves by being possessed of
presence of mind and a knowledge of
swimming.  One of them, Miss Lucinda
Conklin, the daughter of a Long Island far-
mer, heroicly rescued a drowning man
whose boat had capsized near Eaton’s Neck
light, opposite her father’s residence. The
other, Maggie Elpick, eighteen years of
age, who resides near Greenwich and is the
daughter of an oysterman, bravely plunged
into the deepest part of the harbor and
swam to shore with an eight-year-old boy
who had lucklessly been overturned in
a boat. Sometimes, to know how to swim
is of more value than to have an understand-
ing of all the fine arts and to be a leader
of fashions besides.
	If Grace Greenwood means all she says,
we can see farther than she does in certain
directions. She says: “The fact is there
are too many of us women. And there
seems no relief through coming generations
except the heroic remedy of quietly putting
all female infants out of the way. If we ad-
mit the first statement to be correct, would
not a better method and a more just one be
to put the mothers out of the way and save
the infants the trouble of coming here but
to meet so hard a fate? Or better still, let
Platonic love be made a law not to be
broken. True, under either of these sys-
tems, male, as well as the female progeny
would be obliterated; which would hardly
answer the ends of creation. What then
remains to be chosen in reason, but the
social system so much talked of in connec-
tion with the name of “Mormons?”
	When newspaper men take occasion to
write squibs on as delicate a point as that of
religion, we do not consider it womanly or
expressive of refined taste or good judge-
ment for lady writers to seek to imitate an
example so unprolific of satisfactory results.
“The Balance” has evidently been trying to
“draw us out,” one means used being that
of repeating those little old funny stories
about the monkey that accidently got its
tail cut off, and then tried to persauade all
the other monkeys that tails were quite
unnecessary and it was much nicer to be
without one; and the sick child who—when
the deceptive doctor cried “don’t let Jonny
have all of that nice castor oil, mother, I
want some of it”—said the doctor was a
good man and he might have the whole
dose, and making comparisons between
them and our defense of the sacred marriage
system of the Latter-day Saints. To meet
our friend, “The Balance,” on her own
grounds, we could “show up” the other side,
of the question, in caricatures as ludicrous
and as sarcastic as her own, proving that
there are other sides to the picture. But
in treating of religion, we prefer a different
form of discrimination. And, farther, we
were early taught that retaliation was the
poorest kind of revenge; the lesson, perhaps
having more weight with us from the
fact that it was most forcibly impressed by
words and examples of our own dear, good
mother.
	Judge Henry R. Selden and Judge 
Hunt are occupying positions of very differ- 
ent characters just now. While the latter is
being severely criticised by a large portion
of the newspaper press, for the decision
rendered in the Anthony case, the following
is what the New York “Commercial Adver-
tiser” has to say about the former: “When
a jurist as eminent as Judge Henry R.
Selden testifies that he told Miss Anthony
before election that she had a right to vote,
and this after a careful examination of the
question, the whole question assumes new
importance, and Mr. Selden at once becomes
the central object of adoration by all the
gentle believers in woman’s right to the
ballot. And when the same able lawyer
advocates the cause of Miss Anthony in the
United States Courts, there is abundant
reason why other men, both lay and legal,
should put themselves in an attitude at least
of willingness to change their convictions
upon this topic, which now threatens to
take on very large proportions. The points
made in the argument by Mr. Selden are
that the defendant had a legal right to vote;
that even if no such right existed, if she
believed she had such right, and voted in
such faith, that she committed no offense; and
lastly, he argued, that she did vote in pur-
suance of such belief. The point that Miss
Anthony had acted illegally only because
she was a woman, was well put. Had her
brother, under the same circumstance, done
the same thing, his act would have been
not only innocent but laudable. The crime
was, therefore, not in the act done, but in
the sex of the person who did it. Women,
remarked the Judge, have the same inter-
est in the maintenance of good government
as men. No greater absurdity, to use no
harsher term, can be presented to the
human mind than that of rewarding men
and punishing women for the same act,
without giving women any voice in the
question of which shall be rewarded and
which punished. How grateful to Judge
Selden must all the suffragists be! He
has struck the strongest and most promising
blow in their behalf that has yet been
given.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the Exponent.
		  A BRIDE.
	
To-day thou enters, sweetest maid,
On untried ways of light and shade.
Hope beckons on; fear says “Beware,”
But love ennerves thy soul to dare
The vague alarms, the sighs and tears
That thickly throng the coming years.
 
Thy fair calm forehead, ’neath thy vail,
And thought’s fair impress, gleameth pale.
Thy deep, prophetic eyes look forth
To days which yet have not their birth,
And seem too scan the years to be,
With all that they shall bring to thee. 

Thou seems’t to see the care and pain,
Slow pacing in pale sorrow’s train;
Bitter bereavement. black deceit,
Sharp thorns spread for thy tender feet,
Anxiety’s keen dagger-thrust,
Hope turned to ashes and to dust!

Thy heart fails not, for thou cans’t see
The heavenly joys in store for thee;
The joy in duty nobly done,
In any spirit-conflict won.
In heart bowed to heaven’s will.
Though it decrees thee good or ill.

Faint ringing voices call to thee
From out the shadowy “yet to be,”
Which fill thy soul with music rare,
And promise sweet reward for care.
And the kindling light in thine earnest eye
Says there thou findest rapture high.

Thy woman’s utter faith in him,
Beside whose love all else is dim,
The hope that ever, side by side
Ye two may stand whate're betide,
Together be in weal or woe,
Make thy pure heart with courage glow.

And knowing well that good and ill
In just proportions, life must fill,
Thou asketh not unmingled joy,
Nor happiness without alloy,
But art content to kiss the rod.
Be pure and leave the rest to God.

The hour is spent—thy girlhood’s knell
Is tolled, as by a passing bell.
Thy bridegoom comes, with joyous eye,
To lead thee to thy destiny.
With smile half sad but wholly sweet,
Thou turnest thy heart’s lord to greet.

With graceful step, not swift nor slow,
Now to the nuptial alter go.
About thee broods such holy hush—
Though art too thoughtful e’en to blush.
With prayerful eye and changeless cheek
Thou dost in awe thy promise speak. 

Thou givest all thy girlish grace,
The saintly beauty of thy face,
The gentle heart unsoiled by sin,
All fair without, all pure within,
All possibilities so grand,
Together with thy virgin hand.

May he who wins so proudlyno w,
As proudly wear thy nuptial vow;
Be strength to thee when thou art weak.
And with thee life’s high purpose seek;
May, on eternity’s bright shore,
Ye twain be one for ever more, 
						 LU DALTON.
BEAVER, 14th July, 1873.


R. S. REPORTS.

	From the 4th Ward, Salt Lake City. Our
Society was organized Feb. 8th, 1868. Mrs.
Mary Godsall was chosen President, Mrs.
Elizabeth Preece and Mrs. Ann Jenkins
Counselors; Mrs. Louisa Davey Secretary
and Mrs Mary A. F. Jenkins Treasurer:
November 1st 1870, Mrs. Louisa Davey re-
signed and Mrs. Ellen Condie was chosen
Secretary; she dischaged her duties faith-
fully until March 13th 1872, when she
resigned on account of her poor health, and
Miss Mary E. Bailey was selected as Secre-
tary and sustained by a unanimous vote of
the Society assembled. There are but few
in the Society, but those who attend seem
united in seeking to do good.  On the 23rd
of April last, Sisters Elizabeth Howard and
Louise L. Greene were present at a meeting
held in the Fourth Ward Relief Society 
Room. Sister Howard gave excellent in-
structions on  every-day life. She exhorted
the sisters to diligence, obedience and
faithfulness, said they should always prac-
tice what they taught, that they might gain
and retain confidence in each other. She
desired all to subscribe for the Exponent,
the merits of which she extolled elaborately.
Advised them to honor and obey the order
of plural marriage. President Mrs. Mary
Godsall expressed satisfaction with what
had been said, felt that she had been edi-
fied; every thing could not be seen or
learned in one day; there was an endless
variety of lessons to be learned, and each
day some improvement might be made.
She considered extravagance and waste a
great sin, and that children trained to
economize and not use that which was un-
necessary, were a credit to their parents.
	Miss Greene said she liked the looks of her
sisters of the Fourth Ward. They seemed
to have the Spirit of God, without which
none could accomplish good works.  If
trials came, they were merely admitted by
God to purify His Saints, if they would so
receive them. She touched upon the “Word
of Wisdom” as being a great trial to some.
To let tea and coffee alone had never affected
her, she had never used nor cared for them;
to dress plainly and neatly was in accordance
with her taste, therefore it was not difficult
for her to keep out of the meshes of fashion.
So far as known and realized by her, the
principles of the Gospel were all correct and
beautiful. Polygamy might prove a trial to 
her, that she had not tested, but meant to
hold herself in readiness for trials should
they come, and feeling God’s approval she
should be able to pass whatever He might
require of her. She felt grieved to see
many of the young, pure daughters of Zion
marrying outsiders of whom they knew
nothing but that they wore fine appearances.
Whatever good an individual might do for
the Kingdom of God, the reward would be
to that individual; none need fear that in
doing general good, self was to be neglected,
for the only safe way to build up self was to
work faithfully for the Lord who was the
Master of all flesh and to whom the earth
and the fulness thereof belonged. And
likewise, the falling away from the faith by
individuals caused individual injury but
could not stop the progress of the Kingdom.
No one should consider the saving of rags,
bits of writing paper, old letters and envelops
too small work to be attended to, but a
worthy task, in that it would assist in mak-
ing the paper used by the Latter-day Saints,
they would not need to use imported
so paper, but might save at home the means
expended for it.
	President Mrs. Godsall proposed that the
word “Female” be withdrawn from the
name of the society which was acceeded to
by unanimous vote.
	Meeting adjourned and was dismissed by
singing, and benediction by President Mrs.
Godsall.
	Our Society, by the kind help of the
brethren, has built a commodious room
wherein we hold our meetings. We have
missed no opportunity for relieving the
poor of our Ward since our organization,
and have a good showing in the Treasury.
		Miss Mary E. Bailey, Secretary.

	Mrs. A. E. Neal reports a meeting held in
the 19th Ward hall, May 27th of this year,
at which knitting was done by some of the
members, and a skirt was made for “blind
Lizzie;” with the usual cerremonies of
rayer and singing.
	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association,
held Saturday, the 2nd inst., at their usual
place of meeting, was an exceedingly inter-
esting one. Miss Snow gave a synopsis of
a portion of her late journey to Europe and
through some parts of that division of the
globe, which was received with marked
attention by her hearers. Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball was peculiarly enthusiastic in her re-
marks, and was also listened to with much
consideration. Mrs. Z. D. Young was spirited
and concise in what she said, and Mrs.
Parker, a lady from Omaha, who was in-
vited to speak, expressed satisfaction and
good feelings for the kind treatment she had
received during her brief associations with
some of the people of Salt Lake.


A NOBLE GIRL.

	Notwithstanding the fact that men re-
ceive higher wages for labor than women 
do, there are more girls laying up handsome 
sums of money than there are young men
who save a cent.
	Not long since, a delicate-looking girl sent 
home to Ireland money to pay the passage
to America of another member of the
family, who desired to come here to work 
and earn a home.  Said a lady to the girl:
“Why does not your brother send the
money? He has been in this country longer 
than you, and ought to have saved quite an
amount.”
	“Oh, ma’am, my brother would never
send it; he spends as fast as he earns, and
most always foolishly, in drinking and un-
fitting himself for work. I am willing to
deny myself clothing for the sake of the
dear ones at home.”
	“Do you share your wages with them all
the time?”
	“Yes, ma’am, I send money home every
three months—more than half I earn.”
	“Does your brother ever send any?”
	“Not much.  Once or twice since I came
to America, four years ago, he has sent ten
dollars.”
	“Are you not afraid if another brother
comes to this country, he will follow the
example of his older brother, and become
improvident and addicted to drinking?”
	“Sometimes that fear troubles me, but I
believe he will do better, for he was always
a wiser boy.”
	The girl is brave and noble. Quietly she
pursues her duties, and denies herself adorn-
ment and pleasures, although she is pretty, 
and may be supposed to gratify the vanities 
which almost all comely women possess. 
	The helpless ones at home are first in her
heart, and for their sakes she toils from year 
to year, perhaps thinking that sometime
the right man will come along who will 
marry and take her to his home.
	As the habits of young men now are
there is not one in a thousand worthy of 
becoming her husband, and the wisest 
thing she can do is to remain single, unless 
she meets one who has the manhood to resist 
the temptations that beset the youth of these
times, to steal away their senses with rum, 
and rifle their pockets of their wages.— 
“Elm Orlou.”


﻿A Kansas City mother lately flogged
a young man for marrying her daughter.


﻿When Arthur was a very small boy his
mother reprimanded him one day for some
misdemeanor.  Not knowing it his father
began to talk to him on the same subject.
Looking up in his face, Arthur said solemnly,
“My mother has ’tended to me.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the Exponent.
	A TRUE WOMAN’S SOLILOQUY.

		"And they twain shall be one flesh."
	Shall we indeed be one! one in mind, in
thought, in action one—to consumate the
great, the grand, the eternal will of Him
who said—“and they twain shall be one
flesh?” Though two in material, corporeal,
and personal identity, yet one in spirit—in
love, in union one: being formed to affiliate,
to harmonize and co-operate, we become one
in spirit, in essence one, and one in repro-
duction—the spirit and true aim of all
congugal affections;—The purpose of our
creation:—The end to mature eternal lives:—
	My husband and I are one.
							Axiom.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Health in Relation to Beauty.—
The first great law of beauty, as of health,
is cleanliness. Pure water is the best of all
agents of cleanliness.  It is most favorable
to the beauty of the skin and complexion
when luke warm.  After such a bath, the
skin becomes softer, more flexible, sleek
and glossy.  The body should always be 
rapidly and thoroughly dried, and a brisk
walk or some active exercise or other for a
few minutes afterward, will be advanta-
geous.
	The various Russian and Turkish baths,
the effect of all of which is to force the per-
spiration, are not favorable to the beauty of 
the skin. A simple vapor-bath, with
moderate rubbing, may be allowed, but not
the floods of hot steam, followed by dashes
of ice-water, and the dislocating process of
shampooing. The ancient practice of anoint-
ing the body after bathing with oil and
perfumed unguents, was favorable to the
health and beauty of the skin, and might be
revived with advantage. There are various
emollient and perfumed baths, which are in
great favor with the luxurious. These are
composed of oil, milk, buttermilk, or various
aromatic herbs. The famous beauty of the
old French Directory, Madame Tallien, was
in the habit of bathing herself in strawber-
ries and cream. Flax-seed is also a good
ingredient. For an aromatic bath, there
is nothing better than lavender which de-
rives its name from its use. The French
"pote d'amandes," made of almond, ground
rice, orris root, essence of lavender, cloves,
etc., is often added by the Parisian dames
to their bath, and its effect is highly appre-
ciated by them.
	Exercise, in the open air, and at all
seasons, is a prime promoter of health.
Walking when not carried to an excess, is
one of the best methods of exercise. It ac-
quires a regularity of movement, favorable
to graceful development, especially of the
chest and lungs. Taken with a pleasant
companion, or in a party of three or four, it
is better than when taken alone. You
should walk briskly, so as to quicken the
circulation, bring a good warmth to the
skin, and induce a moderate perspiration.
Horseback exercise is particularly favorable
to female form, attitude and grace.  It is,
moreover, held to be the best preventive of 
an excessive plumpness.
	Dancing is also an excellent exercise, but
not as it is generally practiced. Nothing,
in fact, can be more hurtful to the health
than the fashionable balls in overcrowded
rooms, where the atmosphere is hot and
pestilential, the excitement intense and
sensual, and the indulgence in eating and 
drinking excessive and untimely. The 
dance, to be healthful, should be in the open
air, or in well-ventilated rooms, and should
consist not of the stiff, mincing paces of the
modern beau and bell, but of the hearty
shake-downs and double-shuffles of their
grandmothers and grandsires. The game
of battle-dore and shuttle-cock is good, and
so is the “croquet” now in vogue; but both
should be played always in the open air,
and with an out-door freshness of spirit, and
and not the tameness of drawing-room atti-
tudes and manners.
	Gymnastics, or calisthenics, as they are
sometimes called, should be a branch of all
education, and especially of that of girls.
Anthropology, or in fact any other ology, is
comparatively unimportant, when compared
with that art which is essential to the
development of the physical vigor and beauty
of woman. It was in the gymnasium where
the Greek woman formed herself into that
immortal model of graceful proportion,
which all admire and strive to imitate; but
neither modern art, nor nature, unless rarely,
can reach.
	Finally the best means of acquiring and
preserving good looks, and even health, is
the proper culture of the understanding and
affections. A quick intelligence, and a
gentle sentiment, will be reflected purely in
the coarsest medium, and endow the home-
liest  face with an attractiveness beyond
that of all charms of mere form and com-
plexion. Good-humor has more to do with
good-health than is generally supposed.
They re-act upon each other.
	Tomatoes au Gratin.—This simple and
delicious dish is made by cutting some ripe
tomatoes in half, putting them in a buttered
dish with some bread-crumbs and butter,
pepper, and salt, and baking till slightly
browned on the top.
	Apple Cream.—Boil twelve apples in
water till soft, take off the peel, and press
the pulp through a sieve, upon half a pound
of pounded sugar; whip the whites of two
eggs, add them to the apples and beat all
together till it becomes stiff, and looks quite
white.  Serve it heaped up on a dish.
	To Restore Colors Taken Out by Acid.
—Hartshorne rubbed on a wollen garment,
will restore the color without injuring it.
Spirits of turpentine is good to take grease
or drops of paint out of cloth; apply it till
the paint can be scraped off.  Rub French
chalk or magnesia on silk or ribbon that has
been greased, and hold it near the fire; this
will absorb the grease so that it may be
brushed off.
	Rice Griddle Cakes.—One pint and a
half of cold boiled rice; put to soak in warm
water enough to cover it. Mash the rice
well, and make a batter, just before using it,
with one quart of sour milk, one light quart
of flour, salt to taste, two eggs well beaten.
The batter should be moderately thick. Stir
in a teaspoonful of soda just before frying.
	How to Wash Hair-Brushes.—Too
frequent washing is bad for any kind of
brush as it softens the bristles.  Once
a fortnight is sufficient for hair-brushes.
Disolve a piece of soda in warm, but not
very hot water; dip the bristles only of the
brush once in, then rub a little soap on
them, and continue dipping the brush in
and out, taking care not to let the water get
to the back or handle, till it becomes white
and clean, then dip it once into cold water
in the same manner. Shake and wipe it
with a cloth, and stand it, bristles down-
ward, to dry before the fire on a cloth. It
is the water soaking into the pores of the
ivory that makes it yellow. When dry,
rub the back and handle, both of the ivory
and tortoise-shell brushes, with wash-
leather, to polish them.
	Poor Man’s Pudding.—Pour one quart
of hot sweet milk over a pint of stale bread
or biscuit  crumbs; let them soak an hour;
sweeten to taste.  Beat two eggs well; mix
with the bread; stir all well. Season with
orange peel, dried, beaten fine and sifted.
Bake just as dinner is ready. It should be
eaten as soon as done, with solid butter
sauce.
	Bread and Butter Pudeing.—Butter
a deep pudding-dish; line the bottom with
thin slices of light bread, well buttered;
upon this, a thick layer of currents, raisins
and citron; another layer of buttered bread.
Make a custard by beating six or eight eggs
with a quarter of a pound of nice sugar and
a quart of milk. Pour half this custasd on
the bread in the pudding-dish, and let it
stand half an hour. Put over the remainder
of the custard, and bake in a moderate oven.
Large crackers may be split and buttered,
and used in the same way. Serve with
mock cream or arrowroot sauce.


﻿WHAT NOT.

	WHO is the oldest lunatic on record?—
Time out of mind.
	THE “home circuit”—Walking about with
a baby in the night.
	A PHILADELPHIA editor says: What
mountain most resembles the sound of a
sneeze?—Catarrh-din.
	IT is said that iron is a good tonic for
debilitated young ladies. This may be so,
but ironing is a better one sometimes.
	MATHEW VII. 5, New Translation.—“Hy-
pocrite, first take the splinter out of your
own eye, then will you see to take the mote
out of your brother’s eye.”
	IT is said that cream may be frozen by
simply putting it into a glass vessel, and
then placing the whole into an old bach-
elor’s bosom.
	A POET was annoyed when he found this
line: “Where are the dead, the vanished
dead?” published as follows: “Where are
the dead, the varnished dead?”
	A WOMAN of humor wonders why she and
her husband quarrel so often, for she says
they agree uniformly in the one grand point
—he wishes to be master and so does she.
	The liberty of the Press consists in the
right to publish the Truth with good
motives, and for justifiable ends, though it
reflects on government or individuals.
	A NEW JERSEY man having heard that
Columbus was in Ohio, immediately started
out West to interview the “old man” about
the voyage that resulted in the discovery
of America.
	“WERE you guarded in your conduct
while in New York?” asked a father of his
son, who had just returned from a visit to
that city. “Yes” sir: part of the time by
two policemen.”
	“MY dear, what makes you always
yawn?” the wife exclaimed, her temper
gone; “Is home so dull and dreary?” “Not
so my love,” he said, not so; but man and
wife are one you know; and when alone I'm
weary.”
	A SHREWD old gentleman once said to his
daughter, “Be sure, my dear, you never
marry a poor man, but remember that
the poorest man in the world is one that
has plenty of money and nothing else.”
	A LITTLE boy, turning over the leaves of
a ladies’ book happened to get sight of a
pattern for a fashionable hat; whereupon,
he exclaimed rapturously! “Oh! lookie
here, what is it, a whale or a porcupine?”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers Woman's Exponent,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	Nilsson is said to be the daughter of a
Sweedish father and an American mother.
......The German troops have evacuated
every portion of French Territory except
the district of Verdun......Two criminals,
Nicholson and Hallerhan, were hanged at
Baltimore on the first inst......A railroad
war has been going on for some time be-
tween interested companies in New York.
......The recent death of the Duchess of
Inverness is announced............McVickers
theatre in Chicago claims to average seven
thousand dollars per week......Fires still
rage throughout the land, the cleansing of
the earth has indeed commenced......During
the last month the public debt was diminished
83,705,18......New Jersey is reported to be
afflicted with cattle disease......Cholera is still
reported prevalent in portions of Kentucky
and Indiana......A Methodist conference at
Hopkinsonville was recently broken up by
the event of a lady, in seeming good health,
falling dead as she knelt at the altar......An
Indiana man reckoned he could stand the
“drink,” on being acquitted for the murder-
ing of his wife......A writer on woman’s
dress, says, women dress to please the men,
and to please or spite each other......“No
company or good company” is an excellent
motto for all, especially the young........Mrs.
Abraham Lincoln is passing the summer at
St. Catherine’s, Canada......A Dundee lady,
Miss Baxter, has given 2,000 guineas to-
wards equipping a vessel to carry missiona-
ries to New Guinea......The Duke of Edin-
burgh, in becoming a “family man” wants
£25,000 per annum, to back him......South
Carolina is reported to be entirely under the
control of bad negroes and worse white men.
Mechanics and laborers employed on the
new post office in New York, are calling on
government for “back pay” which they con-
sider due them for the past two years for
their having worked ten hours per day
while the law demands only eight hours.....
A train of cars ran off the track in Lancaster,
England, a few days since, and was utterly
wrecked, killing and severely injuring forty-
two persons......The day following the double
excurtion in Baltimore, another murder was
committed in that city, by a Sweedish sailor
named Marker........Carthagena insurgents
have commenced war among themselves, and
those of Grenada have become discouraged
and offered to surrender to the Government.
......Hard stories are related of the Duke of
Edinburgh who is said to be of all the
Royal Princes, least esteemed and most
disliked......The health of Vice-President
Wilson is still reported feeble, but improving.
......Some of the sister States are jealous of
Pennsylvania, because the great Centennial
is to be conducted in Philadelphia......Much
excitement has been occasioned in Paris by
the meeting at Vienna of Francis Joseph,
the Counts de Chambord and de Paris,
representatives of the Bourbon and Orleans
houses, under favorable auspices, which is
considered a reconciliation of those houses.
......On the 5th inst. an accident occurred
on the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy
railroad, a passenger train running into the
caboose car of a freight train, tearing the
latter to pieces and demolishing the engine
of the express, killing and injuring several
drovers and others......Two women, Mrs.
Hall and Mrs. Richards were lately killed
by hostile Indians at Camp Brown, forty
miles north-west of Atlantic City, W.T........
Most outrageous accounts are given of mob-
bing in Spain....The sufferers of the Portland,
Oregon, fire have been the recipients of the
proceds of a Long Branch grand reception
and promenade concert......A St. Louis wo-
man lately made use of a bucksaw in cutting
her own throat......The Cherokee Indians
are reported to have had serious difficulties
which are ending in bloody wars among
themselves......His Holiness, the Pope, pre-
dicts that the glory of France, and her
greatness shall be restored......The public
treasury officials solicit information concern-
ing the real cost of the Modoc war, which is
known to be large, but the war department
decline to give satisfactory announcements.
....Lady Blanche Somerset, an English mai-
den not yet eighteen, recently rode twenty
miles in one hour and forty minutes,
escorted by her father, to see a race, which
they were too late to witness......Miss Mary
Kueil, a graduate of the Westfield Normal
School, takes the position of principal of the
Springfield Training School at a salary of
$850, in the place of Miss Emeline Parsons,
resigned......In one week recently, the Bul-
lion in the Bank of England increased 
£3,007,000......Count de Paris is stated to
have announced his recognition of de Cham-
bourd as the only legitimate head of France.
......San Francisco has given liberal aid to
the Portland sufferers......Worcester, Massa-
chusetts, Beer Sellers get fined $100, cost of
court, and to spend six months in the house
of corrections.......The belief that the Yel-
low Stone river is navigable to the Big
Horn has lately originated with explorers......
A wrestling match for $2,500 aside and the
championship of America was commenced
between two men in New York lately but
after more than an hour's wrestling, was
stopped without a consumation because of a
dispute which arose......Richmond, Virginia,
has had a fierce storm of one hour which
destroyed many thousand dollars worth of
property.


﻿REPLICATION.
	We are asked by our contemporary, “The
Balance,” of Chicago, to give “a first lesson”
on plural marriage as believed in by the Saints.
In alluding to our notice of its editorial on the
“Mormon Question,” it gives us credit for treat-
ing it in a more “aimiable and liberal spirit”
than had been expected. To this we answer
in brief, that had we treated it in any other
spirit than that of womanly frankness and
courtesy, we should have done discredit to our
home education, as well as the religion we
profess, and consequent injustice to our own
conscience.
	To any one who prefers to look on the dark-
ened side, rather than to receive light on the
subject, we can hardly hope to offer convincing
arguments in favor of Celestial marriage, al-
though willing to impart information wherever
we can, to those who feel sufficient interest to
enquire—holding it to be a Christian duty to
“give to them that ask” of us. We therefore
take real pleasure and satisfaction in humbly
endeavoring to offer something of an explana-
tory nature in answer to the questions pro-
pounded and opinions given for our considera-
tion by “The Balance.” It says:
	“That there are many saintly Mormon “Wo-
men” we haven’t a doubt. And the men? We
believe that Mormonism is a religion(?) in-
vented “by” men and “for” men—a sort
of Juggernaut, in whose path women are
expected to lay down their throbbing, human
hearts.”
	Through whatever sources the writer of the
above may have obtained such belief, to us 
it is evident, that it is not founded on a correct
understanding of the subject. And how is
human nature to judge correctly of things
it has not tested? That the men who are
Latter-day Saints are those of purest motives
and lives, firmest integrity and greatest human
wisdom, we have occasion to know. And to
us it is ample proof of their superiority, that
the most intelligent and refined women of the
Church entertain the highest estimation and
appreciation of its noble and gifted elders;
while the leading women of almost every other
denomination are crying out against the cor-
ruption and injustice of the men in general,
with whom they are associated.
	Judging from their own testimonies, we
cannot feel to condemn the voices of those
women. For woman has fair reason to wage
war with men of the present generation, who
would tyranize over her, trample her under
their feet and crush out every holy aspiration
borne of purity and innocence, corrupting and
debasing her with themselves, and allowing her
not even a chance to raise a hand or a voice in
her own defense.
	But the women of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, have not these things to
contend with. For President Brigham Young
and his associates have ever sought, and are
still seeking to elevate woman with man, to
that standard of virtue and honor from which
they need fear no scrutiny, and regard no form
of reproach. And many of the wise and faith-
ful Saints, women as well as men, stand to-day
upon that sacred and blessed eminence.
	Speaking father of the “Mormons;” “The
Balance” asks—very appropriately, provided
it has leared nothing of their earnest endeavors,
their ceaseless, indefatigable lalors to elevate,
purify and do good to the human family:
	“If they believe that polygamy is ‘the only
true system of forming marital relations,’ why
do they not try to convert the world? And what
better means have they of doing so than
through their own organs of communication?”
	The former question in the above paragraph,
is easily answered by propounding others.
What other religious denomination has been to
the trouble and expense the “Mormons” have,
to spread abroad a knowledge of that which it
has received as the Gospel of the Son of God—
“The power of God unto salvation?” Where
are the missionaries, except those of the “Mor-
mon” faith, who have traveled without purse
or scrip, teaching the inhabitants of the earth,
the first principles of the Gospel as taught by
Jesus and His disciples—Faith, Repentance,
Baptism for the remission of sins and the lay-
ing on of hands for the reception of the Holy
Ghost? Where are the ministers of a gospel,
outside the “Mormon Church,” of whom those
who thirst can “buy wine and milk without
money and without price”—who preach to the
people Sabbath after Sabbath without a salary
and with no other compensation than the satis-
faction of having the consciousness of perform-
ing the good works which God requires at their
hands, and which they do in His name? If
there are other agents who do these works, we
do not know of them.
	And as for the “Mormons’" [-]organs of com-
munication’--do they not contain a great deal
in relation to the belief and practices of the
people, drawing many distinctions between
truth and error, and good and evil? They do not


always single out: “plurality of wives" as the
only thing the world needs to be taught; for
although it is apparently the chief objection
found by many, to the religion taught by the
Latter-day Saints, it is but an important one of
a grand system of principles, which, taken
altogether, constitute the Gospel of Christ. 1st
place, too, is among the last, rather than the
first principles to be understood. It would be
about as great folly to undertake to explain
the truth and purity of that principle, to a
person who had received no former light per-
taining to the Gospel, as to attempt to make a
child who had never seen a book, understand
how to analyze or parse a sentence in grammar.
	Yet, we will now seek to give some satisfac-
tory replies to the following questions from 
"The Balance:"
	"1. Will you not be so kind as to define
“Celestial Marriage?" We are told that "in
heaven they neither marry nor are given in
marriage,” so we had arrived at the very
natural conclusion that all marriages were
“terrestrial. 2. Do you believe, or have you
any evidence, that polygamic marriage pro-
duces a nobler race of men and women—mor-
rally, intellectually and physicially—than mon-
ogamic? If this could be proved beyond the
possibility of a doubt, it might be worth the
sacrifices it demands."
	To us, Celestial marriage, is indeed the only
true form of marriage ordained of God, and
revealed to Joseph Smith by an holy Angel,
to assist in bringing about the great plan of
salvation for the world, and the eternal exalta-
tion in the presence of God, of as many as will,
in sincerity and purity, accept “all" the doctrine
of Christ, and earnestly and faithfully live in
accordance therewith.
	The Celestial law of marriage requires the
marriage vows or covenants to be sealed for “all
eternity,” as well as for time. And unions
thus bound on earth' in the holy sanctuary—
by one holding the eternal Priesthood of God,
and having authority to administer such
ordinances, through the power of the Gospel,
restored to man by revelation from God—are
not dissolved by death but will remain un-
changed throughout the countless ages of eter-
nity. This preparation leaves no occasion for
marrying or giving in marriage in the eternal
worlds, in order that loving and devoted hus-
bands and wives may be there associated in
the holiest and most sacred of all relationship,
as they are here.
	Only those marriages which are binding on
parties till death separates them, or for a given
time during life, doom their devotees to final
separation.
	We shall not now attempt to “prove beyond
the possibility of a doubt that polygamic mar-
riage produces a nobler race of men and women
—morrally, intellectually and physically—than
monogamic.” We do not even believe that
polygamy alone would have such effect-
But taken in connection with all the other
pure and perfect principles of the Gospel, it is
already proven, although the experiment has
been comparatively, but a few years in opera-
tion, that when a people have become thorough-
ly educated in the ways of righteousness and
eternal life, a stronger, purer and in all re-
spects improved race of beings will be produc d
and dwell upon the earth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE NEW CLASS OF YOUNG LADIES.

	In accordance with late instructions which
have been given, six young ladies of this city
have formed themselves into a class and are
learning to set type in a building connected
with the “Deseret News” establishment.
	This is as it should be, and we admire the
young ladies who have undertaken to become


useful agents in accomplishing good. Not
because they, of necessity, are at present com-
pelled to work for a livelihood, do they enter
upon this duty. But realizing that it will
prove in time, a benefit, not only to themselves
but to the community, they cheerfully enlist
to perform a good part in a worthy cause.
Calling upon them a day or two since, we felt
gratified in meeting their bright, hopeful faces,
and listening to their cheery expressions con-
cerning their new occupatiqn.
	A gentleman in attendance remarked that
the chief objection raised to lady printers was
that but few of them could be depended on, as
they would not continue in the employment.
But this, he said, was met by President Young,
(who is the instigator of the movement,) as was
the same objection to his proposition a few
years ago in regard to ladies learning to tele-
graph. That was, that a sufficient number
should be taught the art, that when one retired
from a position, another could be chosen to
fill the vacancy. 
	The young ladies who have already engaged
to learn the art of type setting, are, by name,
Miss Martha J. Horne, Miss Jennie Powell,
Miss Sarah Haynes, Miss Annie Park, Miss
Abbie R. Slater and Miss Lottie Long. We
very sincerely hope they may always find
pleasure in the earnest performance of their
duties, and that more will soon be added to
the list.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	Another entertaining and instructive
meeting of Sabbath School superintendents
and teachers was held on the evening of the
Fourth inst. Every teacher would find it in-
teresting to attend these conventions, when-
ever it is possible.
	Election day passed off as quietly and 
orderly in this city as other days do when there
is no opposition exhibited against right and
liberty; the women of Utah have again had
opportunity for showing their appreciation of
one of the peculiar privileges granted them.
	A Pleasant little company of ladies assem-
bled on Friday, the 8th inst., at the residence
of Miss Rhoda Richards, of this city to do
honor to the 89th birthday of that inestimable
lady. Among the guests, (none, we believe, 
were invited,) were Miss Eliza R. Snow,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. O. Hyde and
Mrs. Persis Richards, of the veteran Mormon
ladies. A very happy season was spent, supper
being served for the company at the residence
of the hostess’ nephew, Dr. H. J. Richards.
	The closing exercises of the Normal School,
which has been held in this city, and to which
we have previously given some attention, gave
evidence of the good results which are likely to
accrue from the organization of such a system.
On the day preceding the termination of the
session, the school was visited by President
Brigham Young, Miss Eliza R. Snow and
others, who, we understand, were well pleased
with the interest manifested in the matter of
education, and gave encouragement to the
same. Measures will be taken to make the
Territorial Normal School an annual occasion,
we believe, so satisfactory has been the experi-
ment this season.
	The excellent regulations of the Fire
Brigade in this city deserve honorable mention.
We recently had the pleasure, in company of
some friends conducted by Chief Engineer 
McAllister, of visiting the apartments occupied
by the company by the City Hall, were a given
number of the members each evening and
night, are required to spend their time. Noth-
ing seems to be wanting, necessary for the im-
provement and enjoyment of those engaged in
this worthy vocation; and, as was observed by
a lady friend, among the splendid rules by
which the company is governed, one chief 
excellence is that smoking and the entire use
of tobacco is strictly forbidden. We were also
pleased with the appearance of the Council
Chamber which has lately been r fitted.
	Of the many essential and inestimable
suggestions given by the Elders for the edifica-
tion of the Saints, at the two days meetings on
the 9th and 10th insts., nothing is of more im-
portance to parents than the directions offered
for the training of the young in the ways of
chastity and virtue. If children are taught to
honor and practice pure and perfect principles, it
is an unquestionable fact that they will abhor
everything of a corrupt and voluptuous nature;and that which they love they will voluntarily
cling to, while that which they hate they will
rigorously avoid. Mothers who have great joy
in their sons are those who faithfully instill
into their sons’ minds, the wisdom of abstain-
ing from the use of tobacco and other unwhole-
some stimulants; for indulgence in one sensual
habit only awakens desire for the gratification
of other like propensities, and it is temptation
which leads to sin. From the appearance of
some young people who frequent the streets of
this city, we fear there are too many unhappy
mothers in Israel.


﻿WOMAN'S DUTIES.

	What a vast amount has been said and
written on the duties of woman, and how
severely she is censured for the non-per-
formance of those duties. We will admit
there are many who never learn what their
duty is, or learning it, neglect it most
shamefully.
	On the other hand, there are thousands
who bravely battle with the trials of life,
seeking to render their homes comfortable
and attractive, striving to assist and benefit
their partners in life, but whose career,
shut out from the public ken [-]y the seclu-
sion of home, is never known beyond the
retirement of the home circle, and conse-
quently never receives its just meed of
praise. The name of the conqueror—the
statesman—may illuminate the pages of
history, while self-sacrificing, woman sinks
into obscurity, and her name is forgotten.


The Shoe and Leather Chronicle is
the name of one of the latest publications
started in New York.


﻿“Why is the letter “d” like a ring?"
asked a young lady of her lover, who was
dull as are the generality of his sex in such
a situation. “Because,” said the damsel,
with a modest look, “we” can’t be “wed”
without it.
	How much better we’d get along in this
sphere of ours were we less prone to neglect
our own business to attend to that of our
neighbors! But I suppose that is to
happen in the Golden Age, which looks
as though it never would arrive. There is
a great deal we can do one another in the
way of true, genuine kindness, but it is too
often left undone, because it is so much
easier to do evil than good, and to say
mischievous, spiteful things, than pleasant
and charitable ones. Fault-finding comes
handier than praise, but it isn’t half so good,
if you did but know it. Come now, let’s you
and I see if we can’t all join hands, and say
we won’t mind anybody’s business except
our own, but will work for others’ good, and
not evil.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.		THE WAY THEY DO.

	Some discriminating critic has said
“Fanny Fern has much to answer for in
raising up a regiment of literary termagants
in the land;” and as I have the deliberate
intention of showing my claws this morning,
it is a very convenient theory, since she is
not here to speak for herself, and I may lay
the burden of my sins upon her without the
least danger of being taken to task for it.
	So now, Mrs. Smith, Jones or Robinson,
be prepared, for I know a tale about you and
I am going to tell it without further per-
mission than a defiant “Contradict me if
you dare!”
	You are a young matron whose girlhood,
with its peculiar tastes and feelings, stands
so near you that you could almost touch the
hem of its garments; you think your hus-
band about perfection; you have one baby
old enough to toddle about, call you her
"sweet little muzzer” and be the light of
your eyes; and in your family lives an aunt
whom you greatly respect
	Well, every body knows how sultry and
oppressive the summer has been thus far.
Every breath of air stirs up dust in a state
of white heat, the chickens drag their wings
and birds would be too lazy to sing if they
were not all “out of town.”
	Your husband is absent on business much
of the time, and you have to be both master
and mistress about home; cut your own
wood, water your own garden and do your
own marketing—when you have anything
to market with—but as you pride yourself
on your cheerfulness and independence,
you do not even sigh over all this.
	The July holidays come on, and, although
you used to make it a rule never to miss a
celebration, you have not the heart to attend
this time, because Charles is still absent and
when one has a husband she does not like
to go alone into society, like a widow or old
maid; and so you make yourself and Rose-
bud neat and stay at home to read—not a
novel, but “[-]eecher on Revivals” and “Prof.
Young on the heavenly bodies,” and to
think of your absent lord. “After all,”
you tell yourself, “there would be little
comfort in swelling the mass of panting
patriotism to-day assembled to review the
glories and achievements of the past.
	The holidays being over you suppose
every one will settle down to your dead
level of laziness and weariness, but with a
glad surprise that rouses your languid pulses
to a perfect thrill of delight, you learn that
the whole village, moved by a common im-
pulse of longing for a breath of fresh air, has
appointed a day to ride and ramble

		“The rugged hills among.
		And by the rushing waters.”

	This suits your mind exactly, and you
wish fervently that dear Charles were at
home while there is still time to make
arrangement, for the delightful holiday. To
be sure, you “could” go if he should not re-
turn; for there are your old playmate Nellie
and her husband would give you an
invitation to ride in their light wagon on the
slightest intimation that you would like to
go; and there are friend Matthew and wife,
and others you could mention, who, you feel
sure, would willingly join you to their
family party. And you reflect—with moth-
erly pride and tenderness how little Rosebud
would enjoy the day among the cool trees
and bushes, how lovely she would look in
her while dress, blue-dotted apron and straw
hat crowned with wild flowers; and how
proud you would be to lead her by the hand
among the happy mothers, the graceful
dancers and the laughing boys and girls
about the swings.
	But then Charles—you know you would
miss him, and besides the dear fellow might
feel a little sad to think you could really
enjoy such an excursion without him; or he
might return during your absence to find
only an empty house, and, in his loneliness,
he might think you ungrateful for all his
toil and care.
	You decide that such a thing would be
too dreadful; and mentally kissing the object
of all this sentimentalism, and vowing you
would not hurt his feelings for all the
pleasure parties in the world, you dismiss
all thought of going and betake yourself to
household duties as a loving wife should.
	Late in the evening, the last before the
one appointed for the ride, your dear Charles
returns. You are delighted to see him; you
offer him supper, clean clothes, etc. but not
until next morning, after more important
topics have been disposed of, do you men-
tion the riding party. Your lord pricks up
his ears with, “Is that so?” “Half past
seven,” you answer. “And it is now after
five; well, it is too late for me to rig up a
team now, but I’ll tell you what we’ll do.
I’ll go out in town for some nice groceries
while you dress Baby in her prettiest dress,
and we’ll have a little home holiday and a
cozy dinner together. What do you say,
wife?”
	The darling fellow! you are so happy to
think a day passed quietly at home could be
a holiday to him, that you are a thousand
times glad you had not made any arrange-
ment to go abroad. Full of happy thoughts,
you set about dressing Rosebud while
Charles goes on his errand. Presently he
returns laden with parcels, and overlooking
Baby, who runs to meet him looking like a
little white bird, he tells you hurriedly that
“Brown and them” encountered him over
in town, and nothing would do but that he
must go out with them to see what the
pic-nic-ers were doing. He explains that
he had no idea of such a thing when he left
the house, but that they were good fellows
and he didn’t wish to offend them.
	All your boasted “independence” could
not keep your countenance from falling, and
as your husband is neither blind nor a fool,
he asks compunctiously, “Would you like
to go too?” “No,” you answer softly,
winking very hard to keep back the tears
while he says in a relieved sort of way, and
with the air of one who has done his whole
duty, “I didn’t think you would, since
there are to be only men in the carriage,
and I am only an invited party; but you
and Aunty can make yourselves comfortable
here and have your little dinner together
all the same as if I was with you.” Then
with hasty adieux your adorable Charles
hastens away to his bachelor friends and a
day among the rocks.
	No longer able to conceal your tears, you
throw yourself face downward on your bed,
grieved to the heart, not for the loss of a
day’s pleasure, but for the bitterness of the
discovery that all your delicate consideration
unheeded, was and because the slight and
loneliness you would not risk putting upon
him, he would lay upon you ten times mag-
nified. You think if some other member of
his family were present and he had gone in
attendance upon her as a respectable family-
man should, you would not have felt one
pang even after telling him you were half
sick with longing to go. But to slip in, an
invited guest among those bachelors and
lawyers, with a “boughten” picnic, like any
floating character, you call it an insult to his
family, and wish “Brown and them” were
on the other side of Jordan, and declare to
Aunty that if you knew where to procure a
horse and saddle, you would go yet.  You
do not cease until Baby, with all the solici-
tude of a full fledged woman, lisps forth, in
imitation of Aunty’s rather impatient ex-
hortation, “No-o, mine muzzer, don’t ’ou
bawl about it,” and sets you to laughing in
spite of yourself.
	Then you rise, kiss the little comforter,
bathe your eyes, finish the decoration of
your person and appartment, and utterly
ignoring the dainty materials for a dinner
which was to console you for a slight like
this, you beg Aunty to take charge of Rose-
bud, and sit down to tell the Exponent all
about it; hoping in your secret soul that
“he” will read it and be very indignant,
thus proving that his conscience pricks him.
However, you have no idea that he, or any
one else who might need the hint, would
take it to himself; so you are obliged to
console yourself with the certainty that
scores of wives, young and old, in similar
circumstances will exclaim—“Isn’t that the
truth?” “Just the way they do!” and ap-
plaude your fixed resolution to learn a lesson
from this experience, and, where you can
in the future, take care of yourself.
							L. L. D.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.
					
	A ROOT of a tree containg a brick is the
latest addition to Egolf's museum.
	AN English jury assessed the value of a
mouthful, taken out of a man's leg by a dog,
at $250.
	KEEP your store of smiles and your kind-
est thoughts for home, give to the world
only those you have to spare.
	THE habit of looking on the best side of 
every event is worth more than a thousand
pounds a year.—“Dr. Johnson.”
	The Chinese have recently been organiz-
ing their army, which now numbers 300,000
men armed with the Enfield, Remington
and Colt rifles, and with a full compliment
of rifled artillery.
	TEMPLE'S comet has been observed by
Herr Pechule, at Hamburg, and by several
other observers. It may now be considered
to some extent a permanent member of our
system. Its next return will be looked for
early in 1879.
	AN Illinois magistrate has fined a man
$10 for cutting off his wife's back hair.
Under what statute such an offence is
ranked we are not informed. Perhaps
under the head of barberous treatment and
shear brutality.
	THE name of England, commonly sup-
posed to be a corruption of the word Auglos,
is in reality derived from a village near
Sleswick in Denmark, named Angleu, whose
population was the first to join the Saxon
freebooters in their invasion of Great Britian.
	AN Irish physician was called to examine
the corpse of another Irishman, who had
been assassinated by some of his country-
men. "This person," said he, after inspect-
ing the body, "was so ill that if he had not
been murdered, he would have died half an
hour before.”
	A BACHELOR friend is in trouble. He
has a pet calf that entered his room the
other day during his absence, ate a dozen
cakes of perfumed toilet soap, chewed into
tatters all his Sunday shirts, swallowed his
last pair of socks, knocked down all his
furniture in the room, and then quietly took
a nap on the floor until his return. He
thinks the cool impudence of that calf is
incomprehensible.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

	A correspondent of the Exponent, from
whom we had not heard for some time,
observing that we noticed her silence with
regret, privately sends us an excuse for the
same, which is well worthy of publication;
and we give it accordingly, under the above
heading:— 
	I have lost many a good idea since last I
had a pen in my hand, for want of opportu-
nity to transcribe it. But my time has been
very well employed in another way.
	Sister Elizabeth, my husband’s wife, has
been very ill, and she is living out of town
without any neighbors. Added to the
pain and dreariness of sickness was the
mother’s distress over the consciousness that
little worn garments were sadly in need of
being replaced, and the sewing machine
stood idle in the corner.
	I went to her assistance, helped to nurse
her, cook for the dusty laborers, and to
comfort the lonely, restless little ones; and
fitted and basted while her young daughter
sat at the sewing machine, until she, (Eliz-
abeth,) said quite a load was removed from
her mind.
While with her I cut nearly a dozen dresses,
and worked over eighty button holes, be-
sides mending and other sewing, and a
share in the housework; and I am as proud
of it as I could be of a flaming article which
would fix the eyes of thousands.
							L. L. D.

	Private letters from sisters Agatha A.
Pratt and Mary A. Pratt, written in Mea-
dowville, in the vicinity of Bear Lake
Valley, from which we make the following
extracts, have been politely committed to
our consideration by Sister Ann Neal, of the
19th Ward Relief Society.
  *  *  I enjoyed my journey to this place
very much. I traveled by rail from Salt
Lake to Evanston, distance one hundred
and fifteen miles, arrived about one p. m.,
started about two in the stage, traveled
thirty-five miles; making one hundred and
fifty miles in one day, which, I thought was
pretty good for Utah.
	I was much interested with the scenery
in Weber and Echo kanyons. Passing
swiftly through tunnels and over bridges, I
could not help thinking of the time when
our brethren were there so long, and what
an excellent chance they had to throw down
rocks if they had needed to in defence
against their enemies. And how the Lord
accepted of their sacrifices and delivered
His people.
	I have often thought that if I had not
had a testimony previously, that this was
the work of God, I should have known from
that time forth.
	The most beautiful sight on the journey
was the magnificent view of Bear Lake,
seen from the summit between Bear river
and Bear lake. In the foreground was the
beautiful clear bosom of the lake, the lovli-
est shade of blue imaginable; and in the
background, rose from the edge of the lake
high mountains, black with pine, while in
every hollow and crevice lay the pure white
snow, which, in the distance, looked like
gigantic marbeling. Taken altogether, it
presented to my view, one of the grandest
and most impressive sights I ever saw.
	This is a pleasant little valley, called
from its shape, "Round Valley," an excel-
lent country for stock raising, milk and
butter. It is much higher and colder than
Salt Lake valley. It is so cold now, (May
29th,) that we have to keep a good fire all
the time; and I sleeping in a wagon-box
need fully as much bedding as I did in the
winter.
	Every thing here is so quiet, the same
calm, unbroken monotony, every day alike
except Sundays, when the men stay home
from the fields. There are no meetings
held here, as there is no house suitable for
that purpose at present. We never fully
realize our blessings till we are deprived of
them, and I think meetings will seem good
to me when I get home again. *  *  * 
 					June 29th.  
* *  I thank God for such good, kind,
faithful co-workers as my dear sisters of the
19th Ward, Relief Society have proved
themselves to be. And I hope that their
interest will not slacken in the good work
in which we are engaged. For though we
may be able to do but little, comparatively,
still if we do that little willingly and dili-
gently, we shall have our reward. I often
think we have our reward in the satisfactory
knowledge that we are endeavoring to do
what is required of us day by day.
	I congratulate Addie upon her marriage
and sincerely hope she will be happy. I
honor and respect a young lady who bravely
and fearlessly enters into that order which
God has revealed for our eternal exaltation,
and I trust she will be enabled to acquit her-
self honorably each day she lives.
	My warmest congratulations and kindest
remembrance to Sister Louise, for whom I
entertain sincere feelings of love and respect.
And my best wishes for the continued suc-
cess of our household paper, the EXPONENT.
My daughter receives hers regularly and is
much pleased with its high toned senti-
ments.
	Kind love to all my sisters.
						A. A. PRATT.

	To the sisters of the 19th Ward Relief
Society, Salt Lake City.
   *   *  You are ensuring to yourselves
the reward promised to the faithful. The
blessings of the poor are upon your labors;
and that is a great satisfaction to those who
spend a portion of their time for the good of
others. This we never find to be a loss but
a constant gain. I often think, “to this end
were we created—not for self alone, but to
assist in making others as happy as our-
selves. Motives of this character, will
create a heaven for all.
	What a joyful time it will be for the
Saints when they can live by the law of
Enoch, and there will be no poor in their
midst. May the Lord hasten His time and
cut short His work in righteousness, that a
pure and holy people may be saved by His
just law.
	Journals and records from abroad testify
that the earth is groaning in wickedness,
and very soon its cup of iniquity will be full.
	What manner of Saints should we be?
Like the world filled with pride and vain
notions of fashion? If our righteousness
does not exceed theirs, shall we escape the
condemnation? 
	Even here in Meadowville, far away from
grog shops, my ears have been pained to
hear oaths from our young men, using the
name of God in a most blasphemous manner,
debasing themselves below the dumb beasts;
boys raised by parents belonging to the
Latter-day Saints! I ask myself, “Is there
no help for such conduct?” What an ex-
ample to set before the world! A people
professing to have received the only true
Gospel, having young elders given to drunk-
enness and daughters to pride and vanity.
	There must be too much indulgence and
too little reproof. Evil ought to be put down.
Liquor should be sold only for medicine.
More means should be given to the poor
Saints at home and abroad, more spent in
building Temples, and less in decorating
our own earthly tabernacles; more time
should be spent in improving the mind and
less wasted in idle thoughts, without weight
or substance.
	Love to all, from your affectionate sister
in the Gospel,
				Mary Ann Pratt.

Dear Editor Exponent:—Although far
removed from the “fountain head” of light
and knowledge, my interest in the great
work we have espoused does not diminish.
And I tender you my thanks for your most
excellent paper which duly comes to hand
and is read with much sastisfaction. I am
grateful to my Heavenly Father that the
day has dawned when the long misjudged
and misrepresented women of Utah have
opportunity to express their own views and
faith in regard to the principles of the
Gospel as believed and practiced by the
Latter-day Saints. When the world can
know, if it will take trouble to see, that we
have not only liberty of speech but also of
the press; and that we, ourselves, have
freely chosen the path we walk in, and
possess, many of us, independence and in-
tegrity enough to sustain it. For more than
thirty-nine years I have been a member of
this Church, and have never for one moment
doubted the sacred authenticity of its doc-
trines. Many years I have lived in polyg-
amy, and do not find it the great bug-bear that
many imagine it to be, but quite the reverse;
And I esteem it as a divine institution
revealed from heaven for the furtherance of
the work of God in the regeneration of
mankind and the redemption of the world.
A great deal might be said in defense of
this much talked of and often abused princi-
ple. But knowing that Truth will prevail,
and that God is at the helm, I am content
for the present, with having said this little.
						Arete.
George Town, Oneieda Co., Idaho.


A class in journalism, commencing with
the present term, has been organized in the
Iowa Wesleyan University. It admits the
best writers in the advanced classes, who
may wish to give themselves to editorial
writing. The class, it is said, has begun its
work with a good deal of enthusiasm


﻿“A logician and a swimmer,” says a
Persian story, “were in a boat together.
Said the logician to the swimmer, ‘Have
you ever studied logic?’  ‘I never heard
the name till now,' was the reply. ‘Alas!'
said the logician ‘then has half of your life
been drowned in ignorance!’ Just then a
squall came up. Says the swimmer to the
logician, 'Have you ever learned anything
of swimming?’ ‘Nothing but logic,’ was
the reply. ‘Alas! said the swimmer ‘then
the whole of your life is drowned!” The
moral of this, our teacher told us, is that
logicians sometimes get beyond their depth.
	“Go straight on and don’t mind enemies.
If they get in your way walk around them
regardless of their spite. A celebrated
character who was surrounded by enemies
used to remark, ‘They are sparks which, if
you do not blow, will go out of themselve.’
'Live down prejudice,’ was the Iron Duke’s
motto. Let this be your feeling while
endeavoring to live down the scandal of
those who are bitter against you. If you
stop to dispute, you do but as they desire
and open the way for more abuse. Let the
poor fellow talk—there will be a reaction if
you do but perform your duty: and hundreds
who were once alienated from you will flock
to you and acknowledge their error.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A MID-AIR COMPROMISE.

	Not many years ago and not far from the
City of Elmira at a locality known as “The
Female College,” the circumstances which
we are about to relate took place. It seems
that the principal of the college accidentally
overheard a plan among a number of his
young lady students of drawing a young
gentleman up to one of the third story rooms
“in a basket at night,” as no gentlemen
suitors were permitted to visit their college
lady loves and see them alone under the
strict rules of the institution.
	The principal acted accordingly, and at
the appointed time was at the designated
spot, and when the basket was let down,
took the lover’s place gave the signal "twitch”
and commenced going up towards Heaven,
drawn by a trinity or two of angels. (?)
When two-thirds up, the angel expectation,
on looking down, discovered to her terror
and dismay that instead of her lover she
had another man in the basket, and nearly
frightened out of her wits, made the fact
known to her fair helpers in mischief, with
the pertinent inquiry, “What shall we do?”
Whereupon one of their number, noted for
her coolness and presence of mind in trying
emergencies, said:
	“Here! you hold on this cord! Now, do
just as I tell you, and I’ll take care of the
man, no matter who he is or where he comes
from.” 
	Then, taking out her pocket-knife and
opening it, she leaned out of the window,
and in a low but firm voice said: “Who are
you in the basket?”
	No response.
	“I say, who are you in the basket? Do
you hear? I have a knife in my hand, and
unless you answer in less than ten seconds I
will cut the rope.”
	"Why it’s your principal, don’t you know
me? Don’t, for mercy’s sake, cut the rope!
Keep your knife further away from it!”
	“Well, you are in a pretty fix, Professor;
a pretty fix indeed, hanging between heaven
and earth, between life and death. What
do you think ought to be done with you?
A principal of a female college who thus
endeavors at night to clandestinely reach
the room of a lady student ought to be
severely punished and exposed."
	“Oh! I beg of you not to harm me, but
let me down again carefully, and don’t let
the rope slip.”
	“Professor,” said the shrewd beauty, “on
one condition only will we comply with
your request.”
	“Name it! name it!”
	“You must solemnly promise that none of
us who have been engaged in this little
romance shall be disciplined for it, and that
you will make no mention of it to a living
soul while we are inmates of this college
with the understanding that we observe the
same solemn promise. What say you?”
	“I promise—solemnly promise.”
	“Very well. Hold up your right hand.
You solemnly swear that you will faithfully
keep and observe that promise, so help you
God!”
	“I do!”
	“Enough, girls. He has taken the oath.
Lower away.”
	The “professor" was soon carefully landed
once more on terra firma, greatly to his own
relief and greatly to the joy, no doubt, of the
other party of the compromise, and he lived
up to his oath. In after years, however,
when time had absolved him from it, and
the lover whose basket he monopolized on
that eventful night had, as the story goes,
married the girl—who on that occasion was
so “far above him”—the professor used to
tell the adventure to his particular friends,
and laugh over it till the tears ran down his
cheeks, as the most ludicrous scrape he ever
got into in all his college life, and as the only
one he was let out of under an oath admin-
istered—“Ex.”


﻿THE SEX.

	The degree of A. B. has been conferred
upon Hannah E. Haley, by Bates College,
of Lewiston, Me.
	A Princeton, Illinois girl, died of grief
because her new spring hat fell into the
river and was ruined.
	Miss Linda Gilbert has become a liner
of the cloud of crime with silver, by found-
ing libraries for prisons.
	A Sister of Col. Mosby, of confederate
fame, has been appointed as clerk in the
dead letter office at Washington.
	There is no danger that Parepa-Rosa
will ever be shipwrecked on the ocean, for
she is always safe on the high C’s.
	Mrs. Berlah hunt, of Randolph, Mass.,
died, aged one hundred and four years.
She retained her memory to the last.
	Ella Wood and her father, of Dover, N.
H., were shot by Henry Jewett, recently,
because the lady wouldn’t be wooed by him.
	Norwegian girls who have been doing
kitchen-work in Iowa at $3:50 a week, are
hiring out to work in the harvest fields at
from $2 to $3 per day.
	A spightly girl in Fort Fdward, N. J.,
who engaged herself to a young man “in
fun," fainted on hearing that he had pub-
lished the same in a local paper.
	The trustees of the Chicago University
have voted to admit young women to the
full privileges of the university, on the same
footing as young men.
	An old woman in Maine crossed over a
bridge that was marked “dangerous” with-
out seeing the sign. On being informed of
the fact on the other side she turned about
in great alarm and recrossed it.
	A literary curiosity, “The Poems of
Mary, Queen of Scotts,” is in preparation.
The verses of this Queen, collected from
original and obscure sources, will be prefaced
with an introduction by Mr. Julian Shar-
man.
	The Wochenblatt, speaking of women
in Germany, says that the further they
keep themselves from politics the more
zealously do they mix themselves in
religious questions, and introduce into them
all the love and hate of which their nature
is capable.
	A prominent official in the Internal
Revenue Bureau states that if the female
clerks of that Bureau were permitted to
compete for the vacant $1,400 clerkships,
they would be appointed to two-thirds of
the vacancies over men employed in that
bureau.
	Miss Frances E. Willard, President of
the Evanston College for Ladies, has been
appointed by governor Beveridge, Commis-
sioner for the State of Illinois to the
“Woman’s Centennial Jubilee,” which is
to be held March 4, 1876, in connection with
the National Centennial Anniversary.
	Eleven thousand women signed an ad-
dress thanking Mr. Disraeli for his general
good offices to the Woman Suffrage move-
ment in England. In reply Mr. Disraeli
says he is so persuaded of the injurious
character of the present restrictions against
female participation in the franchise that he
hopes they will be removed by the wisdom
of Parliament.


CALDER & CARELESS,

	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		je15

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city.  Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

A HOUSEHOLD TREASURE.

	Every Family should have a Washing Machine;
nd there is none better—if as good—we truthfully
and earnestly consider, having had experience in
working and taken pains in observing several kinds,
as the Telegraph Washing Machine, which is
manufactured in this city, and sold by George God-
dard; to whom all orders concerning it should be
addressed, “P. O. Box 474, Salt Lake City.”
	We take pleasure in recommending this Machine
to the ladies of Utah, and advise them to prove its
superiority by purchasing and using it.

		NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the Exponent and aid in promoting the objects con- 
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$13 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and & superior first proof, 
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling 
	price $4		-	-	-	-		48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


﻿A Conscientious Pittsburg man prom-
ised his wife, the other day, that he
would’nt drink another drop as long as he
had a hair on his head. That very night
he had his head shaved smooth, and then
got drunk, with a proud consciousness of
having faithfully kept his promise.


Woman's Exponent.
