VOL. 2. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1874. 			NO. 23.


[Column 1]	
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE PRESS in some portions of the coun-
try, is much gratified over the fact that no
less than thirteen distinguished English
journalists have recently been elected mem-
bers of Parliament. Why should not Par-
liament as well feel gratified for the same
cause? Is not "M. P." quite as expressive
and nearly as honorable denoting Man of
the Press as Member of Parliament?
	PRESIDENT GRANT lately nominated Miss
Ada C. Sweet for Pension Agent at Chicago,
and the Senate confirmed the nomination
without the usual reference to a committee.
A gentlemanly cotemporary asks if it is not
more than probable that if women were
more frequently appointed to responsible
disbursing positions, there would be “less
stealing and plundering?” The thought is
suggested that at least there would be no
harm in experimenting in this respect, and
no danger of matters in which the puplic
generally is concerned becoming worse
through such measures being adopted.

	THE SERVANT girl problem has been
solved by Louisa M. Alcott. She advises
ladies to employ ladies instead of ignorant,
overbearing foreigners where it can be
done; and then, to treat them as equals, not
as inferiors. She says: "Now this experi-
ment is worth telling, because it has been
successfully tried with three different
women; and there are plenty more ready to
do their best in families where they can be
properly treated. Some ladies may object
to having a stranger at the table, yet it is
better to have a lady there  than an ear at the
key-hole and a tongue to gossip of family
affairs to the neighbors' girls. Some would
think that this helper would be in the way
if she sat in the parlor, but a well-bred
woman knows by instinct when to go and
when to stay. Miss S. gently vanished when
visitors came in, or if some duty kept her
there I introduced her, and so prevented
any feelings of awkwardness on the part of
guests, or that sense of exclusion which is
so hard to a social or sensitive woman."
	THERE IS no doubt that the appetite for
drink is often hereditary. The following
illustration of the fact concerning it is a 
painful one, yet may prove of interest to
many. The Pacific "Medical and Surgical
Journal" says. "A striking instance of this
kind has been recently brought to our know-
ledge. A lady, wife of the mayor of an
Atlantic city, was a confirmed inebriate, and
in spite of the most assiduous efforts made
by her husband and others to restrain and
reform her, continued to drink until her life
fell a sacrifice to the indulgence. Her grand-
mothers were both intemperate, and both 
died from drunkenness. Several of her
brothers were inebriates. She had one
child, a daughter, who exhibited in child-
hood a marked appetite for strong drink,
and who drank to intoxication whenever she
had the opportunity. The child died at the
age of six years. During her brief life she
was known to have been repeatedly drunk.
So inveterate was her appetite for liquor
that she would resort to the most cunning
tricks in order to procure it—tricks such as
would do credit to the ingenuity of an
adult." Such an appetite, though it may be
inherited, can be overcome if a person is
possessed of sufficient conscientiousness and
morality to enable him, or her, to earnestly
resist the temptation to indulge. And al-
though an individual may find it extremely
trying to leave off such a habit, which often
really belongs to nature, yet no person has
any right to cultivate or allow the same to
grow upon him, and thus transmit it to oth-
ers, who, perhaps, will be only weaker and
less able to resist the evil, than himself.


[Column 1]
		MISCELLANEOUS.

	IF the gates of heaven were suddenly to
swing open, and all mankind be asked on
equal terms to enter into the kingdom, don't
you know some people who would pause to
see what some other people were going to
do about it, and some who would refuse alto-
gether if they saw the so-and-so about to
enter?—"Boston Transcript."

	GOOD, kind, true, holy words dropped in
conversation may be little thought of, but
they are like seeds of a flower or fruitful
tree falling by the way-side, borne by some
bird afar, haply thereafter to fringe with
beauty some barren mountain side, or to
make glad some lonely wilderness.

	THE saloon keepers of Pittsburg are said
to have been panic stricken upon the appear-
ance of a band of school girls on the street
the other day. They thought the women
crusaders of the Temperance Movement
were coming upon them, and every door and
window was closed until the young ladies
had passed by. Surely, woman carries a
superior influence with her, of which she is
not at all times aware.

	A STRANGE account is published in Chi-
nese newspapers of the suicide of nine young
girls at Whampoa. They were living with
different families in the village, and seeing
how much misery the women endured from
the tyranny of their husbands, they resolved
to escape a similar fate by putting an end to 
their existence. So they met at the bank
of a river in the vicinity, and sewed their
garments together to prevent a separation,
and thus plunged into the deep.

	"WE can all earn our living, father," was
a remark made in a family by one of several
young ladies, a short time since.
	"That is right, my daughter," was the
reply of the parent; "that fact I regard as
the point of triumph in your education.
Able and willing are the two words which
when the proper occasion comes will insure
you success, and vindicate the principle that
women should be educated for business and
usefulness as well as for ornament and at-
tractiveness. Never fear to work for your
support, nor fail to encourage others in so
doing."

	SOME of the newspapers announce with
seeming delight that there are women
teachers in the Boston public schools, who
deplore the appointment of women on the
school committees, and say, "they would
rather be under the dominion of men." It
would be strange if it were not so. There
has been a parallelism, step by step, between

[Column 2]
the Anti-slavery and the Woman Suffrage
movements, and it would be strange if it
were to fail at this point. It is always the
result of a long career of subjection, that
those who have been reared under it have
to be educated into self-respect.

	MISS Maggie Knight of Holyoke, has
originated and successfully patented a square
bottom paper bag, which is without doubt
destined to supersede all other styles for the
general use of grocers and others, the in-
vention securing far greater convenience in
handling, and additional strength. Miss
Knight has further increased the value of
her discovery by inventing a machine for
folding the bags, which has also been pat-
ented, and the first large machine is now
building at the Ames Co.'s machine shop in
Chicopee. The machine is designed to do
the work of thirty girls, cutting, folding,
pasting, and drying 30,000 per day, with the
assistance of two girls as tenders. About
half a billion of the sharp-bottom bags were
made and used in this country last year.


WHAT MEN NEED WIVES FOR.

	What does a man need a wife for? It is
not merely to sweep the house, and make the
beds, and darn the socks, and cook the meals
chiefly that a man wants a wife. If this is
all, when a young man calls to see a lady,
send him into the pantry to taste the bread
and cakes she has made; send him to inspect
the needle work and bed-making; or put a
broom into her hands and send him to wit-
ness its use. Such things are important,
and the wise young men will quietly look
after them. But what the true man wants
of a wife is her companionship, sympathy
and love. The way of life has so many
dreary places in it, and man needs a com-
panion to go with him. A man is sometimes
taken with misfortune; he meets with fail-
ure and defeat; trials and temptations beset
him; and he needs somebody to stand by
and sympathize. He has some stern battles
to fight with poverty, with enemies, and
with sin, and he needs a woman, that, while
he puts his arm around her and feels that he
has something to fight for, will help him
fight; that will put her lips to his ear and
whisper words of counsel, and her hand
to his heart and impart new inspirations.
All through life, through storm and through
sunshine, through conflict and victory,
through adverse and favoring winds, man
needs a woman's love, the heart yearns for
it. A sister's or a mother's love will hardly
supply the need. Yet many seek for noth-
ing further than success in housework.
Justly enough, half of these get nothing
more. The other half, surprised beyond
measure, have gotten more than they sought.
Their wives surprise them by bringing a
nobler idea of marriage, and disclosing a
treasury of courage, sympathy and love.


The Hon. John R. Lynch, colored, is the
youngest man in the United States House of
Representatives. He was a slave, without
education, at Natches until the Union army
entered the town. He is but twenty-six
years old.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[For the EXPONENT.]
		MY TWO CHILDREN.

The low amber light fades away in the west
  O'er the verge of the hill tops afar,
And Night, in the midst of her sable crest,
  Sets the clear evening star.
Sweet silence comes down on the busy world
   Like a blessing from father to child,
And the starry glory, above us unfurled,
   Rejoices as God Himself smiled.

Faint, dewy-winged zephyrs go wandering by
   With whispers of sweet repose;
The leaves in the treetops contentedly sigh,
   And delicate Flora-bells close;
The birdlings lie folded 'neath brooding wings—
   Their bough-cradles rocked by the air—
But never a bird, though divinely it sings,
   Can as my baby-birdling be fair.

This eve, when the angel of sleep drew near,
   She nestled close into my breast;
Her sweet baby-nothing, cooed into my ear,
   Made music which mothers love best;
Soft kisses rained over lips, forehead and eyes,
   Dimpled fingers crept over my hair
With fluttering motion like bright butterflies,
   Which revel o'er flower-beds rare.

My heart was a harp and emotion the strings
   Which her fingers swept o'er with rare skill;
A harmony, perfect as angelhood sings,
   Seemed through my whole being to thrill.
So finely vibrated those harpstrings of soul,
   So exquisite was their accord,
A ripple of pain through the melody stole,
   More precious than joy's full award.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	
Sweet memories came of another dear head
   To a mother's warm bosom pressed;
Of other hands wavering over my head,
   Impelled by a sweet unrest;
Of other lips raining the blessed balm
   Of kisses upon my face;
Another sweet voice whose every tome
   In my heart found a resting place.

Deep yearning, as over a life-hope gone,
   Comes with this remembrance alway;
But 'tis wholly engulfed in the heavenly joy
   That an angel of God's perfect day
Is mine, by the passion of motherhood won,
   By love and fond memory bound,
To meet me with joy when my earth work is done,
   To be mine while duration rolls round.

I almost could hear the faint rustle of wings
   And see the star eyes of my child—
I felt the old rapture within me spring
   As it did when my first-born smiled.
To feel that loved presence for moments too brief
   And waken to find it has flown,
Accounts for that shadow and semblance of grief
   Which haunted my soul-harp's tone.

But sigh, summer leaves, to the whispering air,
   Sweet Flora-bells dreamily close,
And mother-birds, rock, in your bough-cradles fair,
   Your nestlings to balmy repose;
For I'm not bereaved, though but one brow I kiss,
   Though but one form I lull on my breast;
My sainted one whispers me measureless bliss,
   Which soothes my sick longings to rest.

Though Death stole from out my encircling arms
   My bright baby-blossom so fair,
I defy him to rifle Love's chambers so warm—
   And safely my treasure dwells there,
And sweet the communion together we hold,
   My TWO lovely children and I,
At eve, while the curtains of amber and gold
   Softly fade in the western sky.
								LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
	From Farmington, Davis Co, we receive
the following: On Wednesday, March 11th,
the Young Ladies’ Association of Farming-
ton had the pleasure of a visit from Sisters
Eliza R. Snow and Mary I. Horne. All the
ward were invited to attend a meeting got-
ten up for the purpose of hearing from these
ladies. The meeting was largely attended,
the house being filled to overflowing. The
audience was extremely attentive, deeply
interested and appreciative. The speakers
were earnest; their remarks applicable, bear-
ing the impress of mighty Truth, their ex-
[Column 2]
﻿hortations soul stirring and well received,
will, without doubt, be lastingly remem-
bered. We are much obliged to the sisters,
for their visit, and can bear testimony to the
truth of the assertion that “They do good
wherever they go."
			LAURA STAYNER, Sec.
	The Secretary writes from Rockport,
Summit Co., April 16th, 1874. Our Society
was organized Sept 20th, 1873. Mrs Ann
Bryant was chosen President, Elizabeth
Vernon and Alice M. Malin her Counselors,
Charlotte Marchent Treasurer. We are but
few, our settlement being small, still we feel
well in helping to roll on the great work in
which we are engaged, in relieving the
needy and comforting the distressed, when
we have any among us. Accept our best
wishes for the success of your interesting
and valuable paper in advocating the cause
of Woman in the true sense of the word.
			SARAH STAKER, Secretary.
					TOOELE CITY.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I have wished a long time, to drop you a
line to let you know that we are all alive in
Tooele; and though we do not make a big
noise, still our course is onward, and by the
help of God, we intend it shall so continue
to be. Our reports financially, this year, are
very cheering. We have a good Society
here, the Sisters are united and diligent in
every good work. We wish you, and all
lovers of truth, every success in your labors.
The EXPONENT is a splendid paper; that it
may long live to bless us with its choice
teachings and influence, is the prayer of
yours,
		MARY MEIKLEJOHN, President.
		EMILY WARBURTON, Secretary.
From HOLDEN, MILLARD CO., April 10th.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I will now endeavor to give you a brief
sketch of our fourth annual meeting, which
was held on the 20th of March. There were
present, President Thos. Callister of Fill-
more, Elders David R. Stevens, John Ellet,
Walter Stevens, and a few other brethren of
this place. Meeting opened according to
the usual form. The financial report of the
past year was read and received satisfacto-
rily by the hearers. The presiding officers,
namely: Abigail E. Stevens,President; Fan-
ny N. Johnson first, and Mary Ellet second
Counselors; Mary A Savage, Treasurer; Em-
ma J. Bennet, Secretary, and also the teach-
ers were unanimously sustained. Prest.
Callister addressed the meeting at some
length, touched upon the united order, the
fashions of the world, and the results there-
of; was well pleased with the condition of
the Society, and considered great credit due
to it. Prest. D. R. Stevens, Elders John El-
let and Wm. Stevens encouraged the Society
to press forward, and bore their testimonies
to the truth of this Work. We truly had a
time of rejoicing. A party was given in the
evening; dancing, songs, recitations &c.,
were the amusements indulged in; and
Prest. Callister returned his thanks for the
good order that was maintained. The
Committee of Arrangements, Sarah John-
son, Charlotte Badger, Ann E. Teeples.
			EMMA J. BENNET, Sec.
	FROM RICHFIELD, April 14th 1874.
	Our Society is in good condition and do-
ing well. We have lately given a couple
of parties and a concert for the purpose of
gathering means for assisting to build us a
hall. We gained forty-six dollars. Our
monthly meetings are held every Fast-day,
[Column 3]
with full attendance, and we enjoy the
Spirit of the Lord. May we ever increase
in the knowledge of the truths of the gospel.
		METTE C. PETERSON, President.
			ANE B. NELSON, Secretary.
	The following is also from Richfield.
	According to previous arrangements, some
of the young ladies of Richfield, met at the
house of Mary A. Farnsworth, on the 13th
of March, 1874, for the purpose of organiz-
ing a Retrenchment Association. The fol-
lowing officers were elected, Mrs, Mary A.
Farnsworth, President, Miss Eliza Ogiloio,
and Mrs. Christina Larson, Counselors, Mrs.
Mary Seegmiler Secretary, and Miss Jane
Baker, Treasurer. Resolved by unanimous
vote that the society hold meetings once in
two weeks and that their motto be IM-
PROVEMENT.
		MARY SEEGMILLER, Secretary.


THE BEAUTIFUL.
	Who shall describe that which appears to differ-
ent observers under different appearances? Who
shall lay down rules by which to distinguish that
which is not distinguishable by any? Who shall
define that which is undefinable? Who shall ex-
press upon paper the attributes of "the beautiful?"
A Chinese lady considers herself irresistibly charm-
ing with her deformed feet. An Indian squaw
coquettes in the finery of a red handkerchief, a
row of beads, or the varied mosaic of the tattoo.
Englishwomen have prided themselves upon their
personal appearance, arrayed in all the pompous
superfluity of hoops, high-heeled shoes, and patched
faces. Who shall call either of these tastes in ques-
tion, or decide which of them have hit upon "the
beautiful?" One man admires tall women—an-
other short: one can conceive nothing more enchant-
ing than a slender waist—with another, an embon-
point carries away the apple: some choose fair dam-
sels with blue eyes—others brunetts, with black
ones: neatness attracts some—finery, others; pretti-
ness charms that man—elegance this. In fine, it
would be a melancholy thing for the fair sex, if all
men were agreed upon "the beautiful."
	What then are the characteristics of "the beauti-
ful" in the softer sex? She should be in appearance
engaging, and have an interesting, if not a hand-
some countenance. She should be lively, without
levity—serious without melancholy; joyful, with-
out being excited to ecstacy—sad without the list-
lessness of despair. Her heart should be the de-
pository of the gentlest, yet the most fervid af-
fection—her soul, exalted by the loftiest sense of
honor and duty, yet capable of the softest exercise
of pity and benevolence. Religion should be en-
shrined in her breast, as fragrance in the rose-bud;
but the withering influence of superstition should
be unable to wither it. She should be able to
discern—and to feel—the difference between the
pure glowing of the heart towards its beneficient
Creator, and the cold formalities which custom
would substitute in its stead. In the day of pros-
perity, she should be conscious of the uncertainty
of earthly happiness; and, with the heart to which
she has linked her fate, she should encounter the
blasts of adversity, not only without repining, but
with cheerfulness. She should be a creature
breathing all the warmth of the most generous de-
votion—unable to reproach, unwilling to be offend-
ed, and cautious to avoid the possibility of giving
offence,—should be, as woman was meant to be to
man, a being allied in spirit to the angels, and feel-
ing the passions of earth only, as it were, to di-
vest them in him of their grossness, and to lead
him, insensibly, to the disinterestedness and the
purity of her own generous feelings.


THE Washington "Star" says it takes a
veteran Congressman a long time to apply a
postage stamp. All for want of practice.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿PHILANTHROPY BETTER THAN
		         PHILOSOPHY.
		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
                                         "I pray thee, then,
Write me, as one, who loves his fellow men."
						LkIGH HUNT.
	In this the enlightened nineteenth cen-,
tury when the arts and sciences have attain-
ed such unparalled perfection, and know-
ledge pours forth in such voluminous tor
ents with the great majority of mankind,
the head takes the precedence of the heart.
Men and women are judged, estimated,
weighed, according to their mental endow-
ments, their intellectual acquirement or their
capacity for business; in short the brain is
the person irrespective of the heart. Strange
indeed, when Christianity has unfurled her
banners of light, that people who profess, to
be thoroughly versed in the New Testa-
ment, so run, counter to the teachings of
the Savior in whom they implicitly belive,
and whose divine life and blameless char-
acter they take as a standard of perfect ex-
cellence. Who in all His sayings and min-
isterings among the children of men, rarely
alluded to the intellect, while He continu-
ally appealed to the heart and spirit. Who
chose for his disciples; poor, and illiterate
fishermen; and exhorted at all times, to
works of benevolence and charity. Who
proved beyond the shadow of a doubt, in
His life, His works and His sufferings, that
He loved His fellow-men. St. Paul tells us,
that though we possess all knowledge and,
all power, and have not charity it profiteth
nothing. Also that knowledge vanisheth
away but charity abideth.
	The exclusive cultivation of the intellect
and the constant process of reasoning, bring-
ing, to bear continued supplies of knowledge,
may make an accomplished scholar, a bril-
liant orator, a profound logician, or a stoi-
cal philosopher; but these advantages, or
benefits are too often gained at the expense
of the soul. Shakespeare says,
	“There are more things in heaven and earth
	Than are dreamt of, in our philosophy."
Then we cannot be too careful, that
while we cultivate the mind, we do not en-
rich it by impoverishing the heart; that we
stimulate to action the sentiments, the sym-
pathies and all those finer feelings which
prompt the little kindnesses and courtesies
that make life so pleasant and desirable—
so near akin to heaven. Let us examine
ourselves, and see what “spirit we are of"
—whether we are living for a noble pur-
pose, to benefit our fellow-men; or whether
we are lifted up in the pride of our boasted
knowledge, forgetful of that God who liveth
and speaketh still, an inspiration in the
heart to be the food of the inner life, a
spirit which communes forever; which
teaches, pleads, rebukes, comforts, does all
that is involved in, the manifold word “Par-
aclete. A well of living water springing
up continually, if we but listen to its musi-
cal flow, that we may draw from it always
afresh for every variety of circumstance,
every occasion for sympathy, and for every
thirsty heart which comes to us.
	The tastes, the feelings, the sentiments,
the affections, are more absolutely the per-
son than either intellectual attainments or
position in society; and yet we often pass
by and totally ignore the true coin, and ac-
cept the mere outside trapping, the gilding,
and by these, estimate character, whereas,
they are at best,but"fragmentary evidence."
	Smartness, shrewdness, quickness of ap-
prehension, and a tact for business—so
highly esteemed by the modern world—
are not half so valuable to a human being
[Column 2]
as a spontaneous appreciation of the beau-
tiful, and that divine influence which fills
the soul with love and gratitude; that sensi-
bility of feeling, which is able to discrimi-
nate so minutely in matters pertaining to
the heart. Sympathy is the “golden key”
which unlocks the treasures of the soul;
and this depends not upon philosophy, or
any mental training, but upon an intuitive
vividness and warmth of affection that
quickens thought and imagination, into
something unerring as instinct; a love for
ones fellow beings, that overwhelms the
bitter with the sweet, and makes justice
glow with pity, through a deeper faith and
a larger hope in God and man, with which
no reasoning or philosophy can compete, but
which stamps the true philanthropist.
	Salt Lake City March 24th. 1874.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	"SAM" said one little urchin to another—
"does your schoolmaster ever give you a
reward of merit?" "I spose he does," was
the rejoinder, "he gives me a licking every
day, and says I merit two."
	A LITTLE boy the other day was put into
long trowsers for the first time. Some one
asked him why he had changed? "Well,"
he replied "the boys made fun of me, and I
wasn't going to wear my pants at half-mast
any longer."
	A LITTLE Boston girl joyfully assured her
mother, the other day, that she had found
out where they made horses—She had "seen
a man in the shop just finishing one of them,
for he was nailing on his last foot." Not so
far wrong as some persons suppose.
	"GET out of my way! What are you good
for!" said a cross old man, to a bright-eyed
little boy who happened to stand in his way.
"Well" said the little fellow, as he stepped
one side, "I believe they make men out of
such things as we are."
	A SCHOOL-BOY, having very good-natur-
edly helped another in a difficult ciphering
lesson, was angrily questioned by the mas-
ter,—
	"Why did you work his lesson?"
	"To lessen his work," replied the young-
ster.
	A CERTAIN little five-year-old miss in Mil-
waukee is very fond of sausages. A few
nights since, as she was saying the Lord's
Prayer, she stopped as she repeated the pe-
tition, "Give us this day our daily bread?"
and asked, "Mamma, don't he give sausages,
too?"
	LITTLE Lulu was not philosophical. Two
or three hours after eating a hearty dinner
of succotash, she complained of the stom-
ach-ache. "Perhaps" suggested the mother,
"the succotash you ate is troubling you."
"Oh, no, mamma, she replied, it isn't that
—it's ever so far below the succotash."
	DISCERNING child (who has heard some
remarks made by papa): "Are you our new
nurse?"
	Nurse: "Yes, dear."
	Child: "Well, then, I'm one of those
boys who can only be managed by kindness;
so you had better get some sponge-cake and
oranges at once."


The Empress of Germany has sent to the
reading-room of the Cooper Union, New
York, forty photographs exhibiting the va-
rious carriages, instruments, and apparatus
used by the Prussian Sanatary Commission
in the war with France.


FLOWERS.

	BOOKS, like friends may be few but should
be well chosen.
	IN prosperity we need moderation; in ad-
versity, patience.
	NATURE sometimes grows men where
she grows nothing else.
	CULTIVATE the habits of industry, per-
severence, punctuality, neatness, candor and
cheerfulness.
	WHEN estimating the worth of men,
keep a guard upon your judgment, that it
be not biased by wealth nor splendor.
	PLEASURE arising from the performance
of a good act will continue as long as memo-
ry and reflection last.
	THAT state of life is most happy where
superfluities are not required and necessa-
ries are not wanting.
	KIND words make people good-natured.
Though they do not cost much, yet they
accomplish much.—Pascal.
	THERE is something in parting that softens
the heart;—it is as if we had never felt
how unutterably dear a beloved one could be,
till we are about to part for ever.
	A GOOD and safe rule to walk by is to be
severe and right in judging ourselves, and
to be very meek and charitable to our
brother.
	"LET no man deceive himself," says Pe-
trarch, "by thinking that the contagions of
the soul are less than those of the body.
They are yet greater, they sink deeper, and
come on more unexpectedly."
	MORALITY without religion is only a
kind of dead reckoning,—an endeavor to
find our place on a cloudy sea by measuring
the distance we have to run, but without
any observation of the heavenly bodies.—
Longfellow.
	It is easy in the world to live after the
world's opinion. It is easy in solitude to
live after our own. But the great man is
he, who, in the midst of the crowd, keeps,
with perfect sweetness, the independence
of his character.—Emerson.
	HOPE is itself a species of happiness, and
perhaps the chief happiness which this
world affords; but like all other pleasures
immoderately enjoyed, the excess of hope
must be expiated by pain, and expectations
improperly indulged, must end in disap-
pointment.
	WHEN we have come to understand the
reason why we live, and distinctly perceive
the end and aim of existence here on earth,
it will be a pleasant task to trace back the
path by which the Divine goodness con-
ducted us, and to observe that all was wis-
dom and love.
	YOUR true religious life consists in
standing where God has put you, and exer-
cising Christian qualities. It consists in
pity where pity is called for; in manifest-
ing patience where patience is required; in
exhibiting gentleness where gentleness is
needed.—H. W. Beecher.
	A KNIGHT in the time of Charlemagne,
finding himself on his death-bed, desired
that his hereditary enemy, over the Rhine,
might be asked to compose his epitaph.
The other wrote, "God be merciful to the
soul of Sir—von—, brave, generous,
noble in his life and in his death. I. Sir
——von——, his enemy, say these words,
and I grave them in the stone, that the
tears of his friends may with less ease ob-
literate them."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS.  EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p, m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	The late Senator Sumner was the owner
of the Bible which formerly belonged to
John Bunyan......Twenty thousand dollars
was lately cleared in two weeks by a mis-
sion fair in Boston......Dr. Edward Warren
writes that there are good opportunities for
female dentists in Egypt, as the women are
forbidden to consult with men; and there
are already three or four English woman
dentists practicing in Cairo......Carl Rosa
intends founding a "Parepa-Rosa Scholar-
ship" in this country; the proceeds to be
expended in educating American female
singers in Italy......The last portrait of
Charles Sumner was painted by Edgar Par-
ker of Boston......A treaty of extradition
has been officially proclaimed, to continue
ten years, between the United States and
Ecuador......A man in Pittston, New York,
enraged at his daughter's persistent purpose
to marry against his will, beat her so terri-
bly that she barely lived to meet and marry
her lover......A correspondent of the "Ru-
ral New Yorker," takes the singular "non
de plume" of Wild Girl......John P. Hall
was the first man in the Senate to advocate
universal freedom without regard to col-
or; a movement, to have his statue placed
in the Capitol is on foot......Mr. Rosa has
founded a scholarship in the Royal Academy
of Music, London, in memory of his wife,
Parepa Rosa......It has been incorrectly
stated that Saxe Holm is a young, unmarried
woman living in the interior of New York
State......A curious wedding recently took
place at Corvallis Oregon, the parties were
a Chinaman and an Indian woman......Lon-
don is to have a "Musical Artists' Society,"
of which one of the objects will be to give
trials and performances to the meritorious
works of the young composers......Prince
Kalakana has been elected King of the
Sandwich Islands.....Queen Victoria has re-
ceived a portrait of her new daughter-in-
law, the Grand Duchess Marie, done by Gus-
tave Richter as a present from the Empres
of Russia......The use of balloons for the
conveyance of mails is seriously proposed
by Dr. Stephans, the director of the Prus-
sian post offices.........Following are the
names of the officers elected for the Union
Pacific Railroad; Sidney Dillion, of New
York, President; Elisha Atkins of Boston,
Vice President; E. H. Rollings Treasurer
......Cincinati wholesale liquor dealers re-
port a falling off of their sales......Young
ladies carry round the contribution plates at
a fashionable church in New York; and the
treasury is said to be thus greatly benefited
......The Iowa Legislature, and also the lower
House of the Legislature of Rhode Island,
have passed acts providing for constitution-
al amendments giving women the right of
suffrage......It is stated that "Max Adeler"
is George H. Clark of the Philadelphia
"Bulletin"......Cornell University has re-
ceived portraits of Lowell and Agassiz,
painted by T. B. Carpenter, as presents
from President White......A New York pa-
per tells of a "kettle-drum," a name given
to an informal reception beginning an half
past three P. M. at which tea and cake are
the only refreshments served, which is done
chiefly by the lady of the house, herself......
The young men of Eton school proposed, in
their enthusiasm, to draw the carriage con-
taining the Duke and Duchess of Edin-
burgh from the railway station to Windsor
Castle but Queen Victoria modestly refused
to let them be the horses pro tem......Fe-
male teachers get $3.50 a week in Maine;
not enough to pay for their board and lodg-
ing.


[For the Exponent
		REFLECTIONS.

	Under the above head, thoughts on all
things may be circumscribed with which
we have to do. The education of the young,
chiefly occupies my mind. Some teachers
contend strongly that what they call gym-
nastics are of the greatest benefit to develop
and strengthen the nerves and muscles of
the young And this is certainly of use
where no better employment can be had.
But I think if there could be a piece of
land properly fenced in with each school-
house, and instead of playing marbles, gym-
nastics or any other useless amusement,
the boys and girls were allowed to have
each a light hoe or spade with which to cul-
tivate the earth, it might prove very advan-
tageous. Each having a piece of ground
allotted according to the age, to cultivate
anything he or she might choose. Choice
should be made of vegetables, plants, or
flowers which will mature in one season.
Such a plan might be pursued in a way to
encourage a love of being useful. Where-
as, jumping the rope, running races wrest-
ling and all like games are often injurious.
	And again, I believe that too many studies
are not beneficial but hurtful. Reading
writing and arithmetic are all sufficient, till
these branches are well understood. Then,
geography, grammar and elocution; and
after these, the higher branches of educa-
tion. In this way the student may become
a good scholar in a shorter time than if crowd-
ed with all these branches at once. I am
sorry to say that I have seen some boys re-
quired to study six or eight different
branches in one day. In this way only a
smattering of each is obtained and none of
them perfected.
		ELIZABETH T. HEWARD.
				DRAPER, UTAH.


UNION IS POWER.

	No fair estimate can be given of the great
good which results to a family, a community,
or a people, through a willing and intelligent
union in purpose and action, for their mutual
well-being.
	Whatever the calling or occupation of a man
may be, he needs the hearty co-operation of his
family to insure success and happiness. And
so with the Bishop of a Ward or the President
of a people.
	There are, among the Latter-day Saints, fami-
lies, associations and neighborhoods which may
be regarded as bright examples, illustrative of
the value of unity in views and action. Ob-
serve the household where the husband and
father, worthy of his position, has the entire
respect and confidence of his wife or wives and
children. How gently, cautiously yet manfully
he leads; how gracefully, orderly and harmoni-
ously they all move in following. Together


they live and labor in a sacred peace, never 
a word of fault finding is heard or a sorry face 
seen. Mark, this is where real union exists in
the household. Though this simple and brief
description of a happy family may seem too
pleasing to be generally accepted as truth, it is
nevertheless a reality that there are some such
in our midst.
	Again, consider a Society of sisters of whom 
it can be said, “They truly accomplish wonders.
Besides taking cary of the destitute and the 
sick, they have sent means to assist in bringing 
the poor Saints from foreign lands, have already
built for themselves a fine Society-Hall and
purchased for the Ward a beautiful silver Sac-
ramental service. And all this comes, of their 
being ONE in their efforts. Their President is 
like a mother, and the rest all look upon her
and: work with her as such.” This description
is, we are glad to say, not one of fancy but one
of reality.
	The Latter-day Saints as a church, and as
communities or branches,are seeking to become
united in both Heavenly and earthly things,
and though some approximate faster than others,
all should strive to fulfill0 as fast as possible, one
of the cardinal principles of the Gospel of Jesus; 
namely, to be united in faith, prayers and good-
works, here as well as hereafter.
	A people or nation thus united in their sen-
timents and in their practices, so governed by
their own consciousness of right and their own
sense of individual, as well as public interest, 
would naturally become with the blessings of
God—a self-sustaining, self-reliant power in any
land. And what could prevent such a people
from receiving the blessings of Heaven? Who
of the members of the concordant multitude,
could contemplate the noble generous lives of  
their fellow-workers, without feeling to ask God
to bestow His best gifts and richest favors upon
them? And all soliciting alike, the same di-
vine obligations, would there not be such a 
unity of faith as to call down the very bless-
ings sought?
	It will be such a people that the Lord will
delight to own and bless. For He has said 
‘Except ye are one, ye are not mine.”


A GOOD BOOK.

	"Hill's Manual" has been handed to us for
consideration, by Mr. James England of Plain
City. After a brief inspection, we can say that
we view it as one of the best books of its kind
that has ever been brought to our notice. Its
object is to enable the writer, sitting easily and
gracefully at the desk, to express thought
plainly, rapidly, elegantly and correctly; and
the great variety of subjects upon which it of-
fers information, is calculated to aid materially
in this very desirable accomplishment, as well
as in many other respects. The book may be
procured at reasonable rates from the above
named gentleman, who is agent for it; and
doubtless, all who subscribe for it, when they
come to test its real value, will consider the
price of obtaining it, so much money well
spent.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE TWENTIETH ult. was a rainy disagreea-
ble day, yet many people were out at the time
of the arrival of President Young and Party,
anxious to welcome them on their return, from
the South. The President reached home in
excellent spirits and moderate health.
	THE DISPLAY of spring hats and parasols,
gives once more a lively and cheering appear-
ance to our city; while corresponding sights and


[Column 1]
sounds in nature and the works of men, bring
a renewal of the realizing sense of blessings
which return with the bright days of vernal
spring after the long and tedious winter.
	WE LEARN from the "Mllienial Star,” of
April 7th, that at a Conference held in Bath
Hall, Sheffield, March 29th, Elder Joseph F.
Smith was sustained by a unanimous vote, as
President of the European Mission. We also
find the names of other Utah Elders who were
present, as follows; L. J. Herrick, R. T. Bur-
ton, John Clark, Joseph Birch, F. M. Lyman,
John C. Graham, R. V. Morris, R. W. Hey-
borne and James T. Little.
	NEXT THURSDAY, the 7th inst., is the day 
appointed for the opening of the adjourned
Spring Conference. As many people will doubt-
less be in from different parts of the Territory
to attend Conference, we shall look for our
friends to call on us at the Office of WOMEN'S
EXPONENT, situated on West Temple Street,
near 1st South Street, just north of the Town-
send House and nearly opposite the City Meat
Market. 
	IF THERE are residents of this city, who are
Latter-day Saints, and who did not attend the
service, in the Tabernacle last Sabbath, unless
really unable to do so they should make amends
by going there next Sunday at 10 a.m. and
2 p.m. Sisters, it will pay you to go, and to
hear and understand for yourselves what the
Servants of the Lord are teaching; and take
heed that you be not deceived by any mere
hearsay.
	AGAIN WE would invite the attention of those
concerned in floriculture, to the space we have
allotted to that interesting subject in the EX-
PONENT; and solicit contributions in relation to
flowers grown in Utah. We should be pleased
to hear oftener from our friend "Flora,” who
delights in floral pursuits, and who must have
gained valuable information on the subject,
which should be imparted for the benefit of
others of less experience.
	“DULL TIMES!" is the general exclamation
from the majority of people whom we meet
now-a-days: especially those engaged in impor-
tant financial pursuits, most of whom appear,
with all their wise management and superior
business faculties, to have worked themselves
out of money and into debt. But to those
who are disposed to “look on the bright side,”
and trust a kind Providence for all necessary
blessings, the times are not so hard after all,
and a sunny day seems to be dawning. 
	ONE MORE issue after the present will com-
plete the second volume of the EXPONENT.
Financial circumstances will not admit of our
third volume commencing with as many
or as great improvements as our ambition
might have led us to wish and anticipate.
However, we shall continue to labor cheerfully
for the good of our friends, so long as we are as
well supported and encouraged by them as we
have been heretofore: and shall endeavor to ad-
vance in the scale of improvement as fast as
circumstances and experience will open the
way.
	ON SUNDAY April 19th, a very large number
of Sabbath School children met in the Old Tab-
ernacle in this city, many of their Superinten-
dents and Teachers also being present. The
object of the meeting was to practice songs to
be sung at the Grand Sabbath School Jubilee,
soon to be given in the New Tabernacle. This
being the first public rehearsal given for the pur-
pose, it may be considered that the musical tal-
ent exhibited by a majority of the young vo-

[Column 2]
calists was very encouraging to those interest-
ed in the forthcoming Jubilee. From the ap-
pearance of the interior of the building in
which the rehearsal took place, when as many
as seats could be found for were accommodated,
it might also be inferred that when the Grand
Jubilee comes off, there will be little room for
spectators, even in the New Tabernacle, when
the City Sabbath Schools are joined by those
of the different Wards in Salt Lake County
outside of the City, and also those of Weber
and Utah counties.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CULTIVATE PURE EXPRESSIONS.

	Every word that falls from the lips of
mothers, and sisters especially, should be
pure, concise and simple; not pearls, such
as fall from the lips of princes, but sweet,
good words, that little children can gather
without fear of soil, or after-shame, or blame,
or any regrets to pain them through all their 
life.
	Children should be taught the frequent
use of good, strong, expressive words—words
that mean exactly what they should express
in their proper place.
	If a child or young person has a loose,
flung-together way of arranging words when
endeavoring to say something, he should be
made to "try again," and see if he cannot
do better.
	It is painful to listen to many girls' tlak.
They begin with "My goodness!" and in-
terlard it with "Oh's and sake's alive!" and
"so sweet!" and "so queenly!" and so many
phrases, that one is tempted to believe that
they had no training at all or else their
mothers were very foolish women.


THE SEX.
   WOMEN usually vote for the best candi-
dates, and cannot be bribed.
  THREE sisters own and operate a Maine
flouring mill, and are making money.
   MRS. Ellen M. Babb is Justice of the 
Peace and Quorum in Eastport, Me.
   MRS. Sophrona Nichols, of Corry, Pa., has
taken the prize for an essay on a medical
subject.
  THE Grand Duchess Marie, in her uniform
as honorary colonel of a Russian regimen, 
is said to be "as marital as Minerva."
  MISS Rebecca Hanna received the first
prize at the Medical School of Iowa 
State University, for the best specimen of 
anatomy.
   MDDLE. Aimee Desclee, the most refined 
artiste of the Parisian stage, the creator of
"Frou-frou," died in Paris, some days ago, 
after a long and painful illness.
   MRS. E. M. Elliot, of Mt. Pleasant, Iowa,
has been appointed Trustee of the Insane 
Hospital at Mr. Pleasant, by the Legislative 
Joint Convention of that State. 
   FLORENCE Nightingale, Harriet Marti-
neau, and many other women, have signed 
an address to Mr. Disraeli, urging his influ-
ence in favor of Woman Suffrage.
  A WEALTHY Buffalo lady of sixty has
just married her own widowed son-in-law,
and the children of the two families are now
puzzled to settle their relationship.
  MISS Phebe Cozzens filed her first case in 
the Circuit Court of St. Louis recently, as 
counsel for Mrs. Charlotte Smith, the editor
of the "Inland Monthly," against L. U.
Reavis.
  THE jewels that the Duchess of Edinburgh
brought with her to England are said to be
worth $2,500,000, and include as many as 
100 bracelets.
  MRS. Lucinda Marsh, widow of Major 
David Marsh, of Litchfield, Conn., left a 
will giving her property to trustees to divide
the income among the needy poor of that 
town.
  THE Shakers at Alfred, Maine, think of 
contributing to the Centennial Exposition,
in Philadelphia, an old lady named Lucy
Langdon Nowell, who was born on the 4th
of July, 1776.
  THE women of Greenwich, Ct., have se-
cured 1200 signatures to an appeal to the
liquor dealers to cease their business. They
do not contemplate any further effort than
the presentation of the appeal.
  MISS Ramberger is the first American lady
who has ever graduated in Dental Surgery.
She has established an office in Philadelphia,
where she intends remaining, should her
efforts be crowned with success.
  MRS. Phebe C. Bailey, who was a great
grand-daughter of John Alden and his wife
Priscilla of Mayflower times, has just died
at Dover, at the age of ninety-one, having
lived to see three generations of her de-
scendants.
  MISS Emily Faithful complains that out of
the hundreds of women seeking for situa-
tions she recently found it difficult to find
one competent to undertake the manage-
ment of a business supposed to be in their
special sphere—dressmaking.
  MRS. C. A. Winship has been the efficient
and popular superintendent of a large and
flourishing Sunday School, in Wakefield,
Mass., for many years. She has also, for
twenty years, been the earnest and devoted
teacher of a Bible class in the same school.
  A WOMAN Suffrage Convention was held
in Newark, N. J. recently. Resolutions
were adopted asking the Legislature to give
women equal civil and political rights, and
requesting Senator Frelinghuysen to recon-
sider his proposition to disfranchise the vo-
ting women of Wyoming.
  THE new Constitution of  Pennsylvania
provides that, “women of twenty-one years
and upwards shall be eligible to any office of
control or management under the school laws
of this State.” No more $80 a month to 
men and $40 a month to women who do the 
same work.


A house without children is like a lan-
tern and no candle; a garden, and no
flowers; a vine, and no grapes; a brook,
with no water gurgling and rushing in its
channel.

	THERE are some dispositions so palpably
and really superior to others, as to induce
the belief, that Nature, in her manufacture
of them, had thrown in a dash of the angel
by way of finish; while, in contradistinc-
tion, others there are, which seem to be
made up of mere sweepings and scrapings
of the manufactory.

	MAKING MISTAKES.—Prof. Liebig used to
say:—"Show me the man who makes no
mistakes, and I will prove to you that he
does nothing." It is easy enough for a sci-
entific man who publishes nothing, but only
criticises others, to escape the charge of
committing errors, and for such persons
Liebig entertained a wholesome contempt.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
	TO A YOUNG LADY FRIEND.

Dear Girl! you are just starting on in the race
	Which humanity offers to all!—
And many competitors join in the chase,
And many you'll find who will try to displace
	Your footsteps from reaching the goal.

But calmly press on, keep the goal in your view,
	You have much that will help you along—
You'll find that you'll ever have plenty to do,
If you, to yourself remain faithful and true,
	Without troubling yourself with the throng.

Look into your brain—watch its exquisite art,
	See how busy its MAKER has been!—
Search its innermost cloisters, view every part,
	And then worship the God of that scene.

The God who has form'd you—your heart and your brain,
	Which are MINES of rich wealth all you own—
To work them in wisdom, that you may retain
The gold and the jewels they richly contain,
	Adorning hereafter your crown!

Walk slowly, walk softly, walk calmly along,
	Seeking wisdom to guide and direct;
That hereafter, when mingling in life's busy throng,
It will plainly be seen to what class you belong,
	And may that be to God's own Elect.
							HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. CITY, Sept. 1878.


[Column 1]
			HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	A "Farmer's Wife" puts the following home
questions to the readers of the American Agricul-
turist. Attention to these little matter would
save many steps by weary feet, and the feeling
that the men and boys of the household are indif-
ferent and careless in making work, which is some-
times harder to bear than unnecessary work itself:
	Do you, after having kindled the fire, sweep
away the shavings and ashes neatly, or leave them
on or around the stove? When you bring in a
pail of water, are you careful not to spill it, or must
some one use the mop after you every time? When
you (men and boys) leave the barn yard, do you
scrape the dirt from your boots, or bring it to the
clean door steps or, what is worse into the house,
and scrape it on the nicely polished cooking stove,
that has cost an hour's hard rubbing to make
bright? Do you ever spit on the stove floors, or
carpets? Do you leave hats and overcoats in the
halls?—or do you wear them in and lay them on the
table with papers, etc., scattering hay seeds and
dust over the cloth, and its contents, making it nec-
essary to remove and replace them much oftener
than would be required, if the rules of order were
observed? Do you put your clothes in their places,
or leave them for some female member of the fam-
ily to take care of?
	I could ask many more questions of similar im-
port about door yards, gates, garden walls, fences,
tool houses, etc., but I will not intrude. I insist
that farmers' homes ought to, and might be, as
neat and beautiful as any others' if all would do
their work in the best manner, or at the earliest
opportunity, and not leave for another what they
ought to do themselves. I know that long in-
dulged habits are hard to overcome, but may I not
hope that young men will heed advice. You
would not like to have a slatternly wife; but if you
are slovenly in your habits you could not be happy
with a neat one, for she would be dissatisfied and
unhappy, and unless she were uncommonly heroic, 
you would be likely to hear of it. Perhaps you think
these things of a very small moment, but I know of
but few things that grieve and fret a woman more,
when she is weary and dispirited, than to have all
her efforts at order and neatness unappreciated;
and I know too, "more offend from want of thought
than want of feeling." So let me say to farmer's 
boys, and girls too, if you wish to have pleasant,
happy homes, be not only virtuous, but orderly, 
industrious, and neat.—"Farmer's Wife" in
"Amn Agriculturist"
	Dried Meat for Medical Puposes.—The Ameri-
can Journal of Pharmacy says:—It is prepared by

[Column 2]
Daneucy of Bordeaux by cutting fresh meat fine,
spreading upon muslin, drying rapidly in a cur-
rent of air and rubbing into a brown powder,
which is almost inodorous, and has a slightly saline
taste. It is readily taken by patients, spread
upon bread, or a teaspoonful of it mixed with a 
cupful of broth or soup, and by children, if baked
into biscuits.
	Felon on the Finger.—The following simple
prescription is recommended as a cure for the
distressing ailment: Take common rock salt, such
as is used for salting down beef or pork: dry it in
an oven; then pound it fine, and mix it with spirits
of turpentine in equal parts; put it in a rag
and wrap it round the parts affected, and, as it
gets dry put on more, and in twenty-four hours the
felon will be dead. It will do no harm to try it. 
	Benefits of Turpentine,—A writer in the Scien-
tific American says let any one who has an attack
of lock-jaw take a small quantity of spirits of tur-
pentine; warm it and pour it into the wound—no
matter what the wound is—and relief will follow in
less than one minute. Nothing better can be ap-
plied to a severe cut or bruise than cold turpentine;
it will give certain relief almost instantly. Tur-
pentine is also a sovereign remedy for croup.
Saturate a piece of flannel with it, and place the
flannel on the throat and chest, in very severe
cases from three to five drops on a lump of sugar
may be taken inwardly. Every family should have a
bottle of turpentine on hand.
	Drink and Air.—Persons with weak stomachs
should be careful about loading them with cold wa-
ter. Children are apt to use too much ice water.
It is rare that a person can drink much water at
meal time without injury. Still more harm is
done by the use of other drinks than by this natu-
ral beverage,—Some air is always entangled in the
food as it is chewed and passes to the stomach.
When people eat in great haste, much more air is
swallowed; enough often to create wind in the
stomach and seriously interfere with digestion.—
“Herald of Health.”


DIVERSIONS.
	SKY-LIGHTS.—Sun, moon and stars.
	WHAT, word is always pronounced wrong?
Wrong. 
	HOTEL-KEEPERS are people we have to
put up with. 
	WHAT has a cat that nothing else has?
Kittens. 
WHEN is a dog like a fixed doctrine?—
When it is a dog-ma. 
	A DOG well-dressed wears a collar and
pants in the summer.
	IT has been asked, When rain falls, does
it ever get up?  Of course it does;—in dew
time.
	STRANGE to say, no matter how well paid
a dentist may be, he will always look down
in the mouth.
	"I HAVE lost flesh,” said a toper to his
companion.  “No great loss,” replied, the
other, “since you have made it up in spir-
its."
	“When a fellow is too lazy to work in
this section,” writes a correspondent from a
village in Canada East, “he paints his name
over his door, and calls it a tavern, and makes
all his neighbors as lazy as himself.”
	IRISH TELESCOPE—An Irishman was one
day observing to a friend that he had a most
excellent telescope.  “Do you see yon
church,” said he, “about half a mile off?
It’s scarcely discernible; but when I look at
it through my telescope, it brings it so close
that I can hear the organ playing.”	
	﻿Irascible old man—“Conductor, why didn’t
you wake me as I asked you? Here I am,
miles beyond my station.”—Conductor—“I
did try,sir, but all I could get out of you was,
'All right, Maria; get the children their
breakfast, and I’ll be down in a minute. ”
	A TROY paper thus states a Trojan joke:
“A dentist of this city became emotionally
insane while repairing a front tooth for a
pretty woman, and kissed her. She imme-
diately went home and told her husband,
who went around that way the same eve-
ning, and borrowed $500 of the dentist on
long time and without interest.” 
	A GUARDIAN of the peace in New York
made his first essay as a ‘mounted police-
man,’ one day last week, by grasping the
horse’s tail and attempting to climb up that
way. The surgeon subsequently remarked,
that no horse ever had a finer opportunity,
or took advantage of it with such infinite
scorn of the consequences.
	A MARKET girl sold a gentleman a fine fat
goose, warranting it to be young.  It turned
out, when roasted, to be unmanageably
tough.  The next day the gentleman said
to the market girl, “That goose which you
sold me for a young one was very old.”—
“Certainly not,” said the girl “don’t you
call me young?”—“Yes.”—“Well I am but
nineteen, and I heard mother say often, that
that goose was six weeks younger than me.”
	A MAN was brought up by a farmer, and
accused of stealing some ducks. The farmer
said he should know them anywhere, and
went on to describe their peculiarity.
“Why,” said the magistrate, “they can’t be
such a very rare breed! I have some like
them in my yard.”  “That’s very likely,
your honor,” said the farmer; “these are
not the only ducks of the same sort I have
had stolen lately!”
	“DEAR old Aunt Mary,” said a school
girl, “don’t see very well, and last Sunday
she was buzzing around getting ready for
church, looking for umbrella, specs, over-
shoes, and last but not least her prayer book.
The latter she thought she secured by grab-
bing something off her bureau at the last
moment, but when she got to church it
proved to be my music box, and the old
lady, in trying to find her place in this un-
common book of prayer, touched the spring
and it went off in fine style to the tune of
“O Jim Along, Jim Along Josey.”
	THE following is the verdict of a negro
jury: “We, de undersigned, bein' a Koro-
ner’s jury to sit on de body of de nigger,
Sambo, now done dead and gone afore us,
hab been sittin’ on de said nigger aforesaid,
and find dat de same did on de night of de
fourteenth of November come to def by
fallin’ from de bridge ober de riber in de said
riber and brokin his neck, where we'find he
'was subsequently drowned and afterwards
washed to do riber side, whar we suppose
he was froze to def.”
	ONE night a judge, a military officer, and
a priest, all applied for lodging at an inn
where there was but one spare bed, and the
landlord was called upon to decide which
had the best claim of the three.  “I have
lain fifteen years in the garrison at B.,”
said the officer.  “I have sat as judge twenty
years in R.,” said the judge.  “With your
leave, gentlemen, I have stood in the min-
istry twenty-five years at N.,” said the
priest. “That settles the dispute,” said the
landlord. “You, Mr. Captain, have lain fif-
teen years you, Mr. Judge, have sat twenty
years but the aged pastor has stood fivc-
and-twenty years, so he has the best right
to the bed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
			S. L. City, April 9th, 1874.
DEAR SISTER L. GREENE RICHARDS:—
	Permit me to offer a few of my reflections
through the EXPONENT. My mind has
been much exercised in regard to the youth
of this our people. I had supposed that our
children would naturally grow up in the
faith of the Gospel, and believe it as firmly
as do their parents. Perhaps some do. But
many that I meet with, evince a spirit quite
the reverse. It gives me pain to see this in
children of good, kind, heavenly-minded
parents, who have, many of them, left their
homes, friends, native land, everything on
earth that was dear to them, and come to
this far off desert country, braved the storms
of persecution, poverty and privation, some
almost starvation, for the sake of this Gos-
pel—which is the power of God unto salva-
tion to every one who believes and is exer-
cised thereby—that they might raise up a
posterity who would keep the command-
ments of God. When we find so many go-
ing far astray, and even joining themselves
to unbelievers and persecuters, thus cutting
themselves off from all the privileges and
blessings of the Gospel, it is enough to
grieve the heart and cause many bitter re-
flections. Some months ago, I dreamed I
stood by a stream of water. It looked bright
and beautiful on the surface, but had a deep,
dark, and strong undercurrent. Many
young and beautiful maidens, were sporting
beside this stream, and a serpent lay watch-
ing their movements with apparent pleas-
ure Some of the young girls, regardless of
the cries and entreaties of their friends,
would jump into the water, which, assum-
ing a serpentine course and a swift current,
dashed them from side to side, and hurried
them on to sudden destruction. Others
more wise listened to the admonitions of
their friends, and were saved from the aw-
ful consequences. Of late, I am much
pleased with the efforts that are being made
for the benefit of the rising generation.
Already we can see great good resulting
from them, and let us be encouraged.
Mothers, sisters, let us unite our efforts in
this good work, that we may yet rejoice in
seeing our children growing up in the fear
of the Lord, becoming useful ornaments in
society.				R. C. A.
		SPRINGVILLE, April 8th, 1874.
	My feelings of gratitude and love to God,
for the Gospel made known through the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith, are truly a source of
continual pleasure. I am satisfied; for my
eyes have seen and my ears heard, and I
know the Gospel harmonizes with the Scrip-
tures, fulfills many of the prophecies and
gives us just conceptions of our Father in
Heaven. It contains the most glorious prin-
ciples for a future state of existence, it ele-
vates our ideas, it plainly shows us the du-
ties of a Saint, and though many of our
friends may reject the truth, the time will
come when their eyes will be opened to a
sense of their folly. If the ways of truth
were ever evil spoken of, now is the time.
The language of the apostle is very compre-
hensive; we have truce-breakers, false ac-
cusers of the Saints and the revelations
which God has given for our guidance.
What are they working at in Congress? Is
there no one to attend to the people's cause
and administer righteous laws? Yes, one
of the anointed of the Lord is there, and
some that the Lord is working through, but
they cannot see it. May the great Jehovah
inspire our hearts with wisdom sufficient to
lead the young and tender branches, the
[Column 2]
gems that He has given us to watch over,
with love and kindness; teaching them to
respect those that have been appointed to
lead them in the ways of truth. May we,
my sisters, as mothers, be moved by influ-
ences pleasant as the dew of Heaven, gentle
as angels' ministerings, to extend the guid-
ing hand of love to those who may seek our
aid. Those who would be happy, had best
not inquire too curiously into the doings of
their neighbors, but ever find some useful
business for themselves.
				HANNAH HARRISON.
		SMITHFIELD, April 22nd. 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	At one of our Fast Meetings, not long since,
when there was a good, large gathering and
all seemed to feel well, I had some reflec-
tions of which I thought I would like to
pen a few for your consideration. The time
was entirely occupied with the testimonies
borne concerning the truth of the Everlast-
ing Gospel in these Latter-days. Many
brethren testified that they knew that Jos-
eph Smith was a Prophet of God—as great
a Prophet as had ever lived since the days of
the Savior. And that Brigham Young was
his lawful successor, appointed by God,
through divine revelation to lead the Church
in these the last days, As my heart burned
within me, almost to the consuming of my
flesh, with grateful responses to the truth of
those sentiments, I was led to reflect thus.
This is a great testimony we have to give.
How many of us realize its importance?
We believe in all sincerity, that our leaders
are inspired men, that they speak to us by
the testimony of Jesus, which is the spirit
of prophecy; and we believe their teach-
ings to be the word of God unto us, yet—
how many of us live by it? Jesus said, man
should not live by bread alone, but by every
word that proceeded out of the mouth of
God. Do our works and our words corres-
pond? In many instances I fear not. How
about the little things, the Word of Wis-
dom for instance, which is adapted to the
"weakest of those who are worthy to be
called Saints?" Did not President Young
a few years ago, in warning the people, say
that this was to be no longer trifled with?
That he could say to no one, that this law
might be broken unless they were willing
to lose the blessings promised to the faith-
ful? How many of us fail even in these
simple things? And how and when shall
we be prepared for the great things which
the Lord has in store for His faithful Saints
—which He is waiting and willing to pour
out upon us, were we but willing and able to
receive them? My beloved sisters let us
strive to live by every word of God, and
have faith in Jesus; so shall we receive
great blessings, and wisdom through which
we may become heirs of Salvation. May
union increase in Israel, and may all who
seek to work righteousness, have power to
stand, that they be not overcome. And for
you, dear Editor, may the Spirit of God
actuate you continually, and assist you in
all your wise efforts.
						S. K. G.


THE Ailanthus, or more properly the Ai-
lantus tree is declared to be poisonous by
Mr. S. Melvin of Oswego, N. Y. About ten
years ago, in the month of August, he cut
down and trimmed an Ailantus tree when
in full bloom and in consequence of its pois-
onous effects he suffered from head to foot,
his face being so badly swollen as to close
his eyes.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE British Empire, in area comprises
about one-third of the surface of the globe.
	MARSHALL Serrano, Presiderit of the Span-  
ish Republic, is to receive a salary of $100,
000.  
	HOLLAND has only 3,500,000 inhabitants
yet owns $160,000,000 of American securi-
ties.
	THE new Encyclopedia Britannica, now
in course of preparation, it is said will cost one
million dollars.
	BEFORE the war in Georgia an able-bodied
negro used to cost $1,200 now you can 
lease a convict for five years for $55.
	THE new city directory of St. Louis,
just published, puts the present population
of that town at 473,560 souls.
	TWO years ago, two barrels of live perch
were placed in the pond at Tisbury, Mass.,
which have increased so that now seining is
profitable.
	KING Koffee’s umbrella, which is as
large as a tent, is among the spoils of the
Ashantee war, and will be exhibited at a
public museum in London.
	AT London, recently the University boat 
race was won by the Cambrige crew by two
lengths. Distance, four miles, two fur-
longs—time, twenty-three minutes, thirty-
five seconds.
	THE Iowa Legislature has enacted a law
against baggage smashers. The penalty for
recklessly injuring baggage is a fine of not
less than $50, nor more than $100, and im-
prisonment not exceeding thirty days.
	ACCORDING to an entry found in the Re- 
cord Office, King Edward III paid $16 on
the 1st of March 1360, toward the ransom
of the poet Chaucer, who had been taken
prisoner in the war with France in 1359-60.
	A NEW HYGROSCOPE:—An instrument
for indicating a decided change in the rela-
tive quantity of moisture of the atmosphere 
is now used in Paris, consisting of strips of
paper which have been dipped in a cobalt salt 
solution, containing common salt and gum 
arabic. In dry weather this prepared paper
is blue, and in wet it is rose red.
	THE Janesville, Tenn., Tribune, says:—.
Rev. Thomas Smith, of the Baptist church,
who lives at Parrotsville, in Cooke County,
Tenn., is 101 years old. He still preaches
and rides horse-back to his appointments.
He was the pastor of one church forty-four
years, remembers the battle of Brandywine;
quotes Scripture rapidly; memory unim-
paired; never missed a meal on account of 
sickness: never took but three doses of
medicine; was always temperate; enjoys 
good health, eats heartily, reads without 
glasses and never did use them. He is
probably the oldest preacher in America.
	THE large clock at the English Parlia- 
ment House is the largest in the world.
The four dials of this clock are twenty two 
feet in diameter. Every half minute the
point of the minute hand moves nearly seven
inches. The clock will go eight and a half 
days, but only strikes for seven and a half,
thus indicating any neglect in winding it
up. It strikes quarter hours, and the mere
winding up of the striking mechanism takes
two hours. The pendulum is fifteen feet
long; the wheels are of cast iron, the hour
bell is eight feet high and nine feet in di-
ametor, weighing nearly fifteen tons, and
the hammer alone weighs more than four
hundred pounds.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		FLORAL HINTS.

	Ladies who cultivate flowers in the house
will find great benefit to the plants by
spreading moss over the earth in flower pots.
This keeps the water from evaporating, and
the temperature more uniform. Tea-grounds
are often used for the same purpose. Where
a flower-pot sets in a saucer, with a hole in
the bottom of the pot, put a little sand in
the saucer, and cover it with moss, and you
have a simple and admirable arrangement.
	A LADY contributor writes the "Country
Gentleman" as follows:
	" I take coarse, heavy wire for foundation
and handle; then interlace with old hoop
wire made pliable by burning or heating to
a red heat; then I take young Portulaca
plants with a lump of earth attached to each,
and put them through the interstices, and
so fill the basket. The plants take kindly
to their unnatural position, and soon become
a mass of beautiful green and brilliant flow-
ers. My baskets hold nearly a half peck of
earth and look like a hanging garden. In
each I place an empty potash box, inserted
in a cavity in the earth, which I fill with
water daily, and in them place fresh flowers
as my fancy dictates. They hang in my
piazza, which is festooned and twined with
the American ivy and Morning Glories, and
no lovlier spot can well be imagined."
	THE cultivation of plants in a sleeping
room or the apartment in which the family
lives most of the time, is said to be un-
healthy. At least, any room in which sev-
eral plants are grown requires to be airy and
light. "Scribner's Monthly" has the fol-
lowing about a PLANT STAND.—The lack of
a desirable place to keep plants often pre-
vents the pleasure of raising them. They
must have light, air, and sunshine, and it is
not always convenient to devote the bright-
est window to their occupancy. If kept on
the ledges they are in danger of being
chilled on a frosty night; and it is a tax to
be compelled to move the heavy pots every
time the thermometer drops. A flower
stand of some sort that can be readily moved
from window to window, is, therefore, a
necessity. The old-fashioned wooden ones
are clumsy, heavy, and take up too much
room. The modern wire frames are pretty
and light, but one of moderate size costs ten
or twelve dollars, which is a great deal to
put in the stand when we wish to put in the
flowers.
	We saw something the other day that
seemed to serve both economy and conve-
nience. A box three feet long, and a foot
and a half wide across the bottom, and
eighteen inches deep, is made of common
pine. The sides flare out, so that at the top,
they measure from six to eight inches more
from edge to edge than at the bottom. This
box stands on four legs, with casters, and
under the bottom of the box a piece of wood
fancifully cut on the edge, (a sort of pine
valance) holds the legs firmly and symmet-
rically together. The top of the box is
nearly even with the window sill, and when
the whole is constructed it may either be
painted in colors or stained dark brown, to
match the furniture wood. The inside of
the box is better preserved from decay if
lined with zinc or tin; but it will last one
possibly two seasons without any lining at
all. Over the bottom is spread a three-inch
layer of bits of broken flower pots, and on
this is set a double row of pots, or as many
as will stand evenly on the surface. Then a
thick layer of sand is thrown over the bro-
ken pieces, and the rest of the space filled
up with earth till it is even with the top of
the flower pots. In the bed thus formed,

[Column 2]
bulbs and slips are planted between the
pots, and vines are started at the corners.
When the latter are well under way, wires
on which the vines twist, are fastened diago-
nally from corner to corner, forming a beau-
tiful green arch over what seems to be a bed
taken bodily from the garden. Sometimes
a tiny hanging basket, or an ivy growing in
water, is hung from where the wires cross
in the arch, but, even without it, there is
no appearance of bareness. A carpenter
will make the box for two dollars and a half,
and the painting and all can readily be done
at home.


﻿PEN AND SCISSORS. 

	No one can fully appreciate the true value
of a real friend, until left without one.
	Many a man thinks it’s virtue that keeps
him from stealing, when it’s only a full
stomach. One should be careful, and not
mistake potatoes for principles.
	Kate Field, writing from Spain, thinks
that Nature would do a thriving business if
she would only economize on fleas, and be-
stow the extra energy on the men of that
country.
	That was a very observing widow who
said: "The state of widowhood is inconve-
nient, for one must assume all the modesty
of a young girl without being able to feign
her ignorance."
	In Switzerland, a Society for the obser-
vance of the Sabbath as a day of rest, has
offered a prize of $200 for the best essay on
the subject of resting upon the Sabbath, con-
sidered in a hygienic point of view. The
points required to be especially discussed
are:—1. The favorable effects of rest on
Sunday on people of various ages, and their
influence on the family and the nation. 2.
Diseases which may be engendered and in-
creased by continuous work in persons who
by the nature of their calling are deprived
of this weekly recreation, as, for instance,
railroad employes, journalists, telegraph op-
erators, bakers, etc. 3. practical results
drawn from the observation of cited facts.
	Honor the Scissors.—Some people, ig-
norant of what good editing is, imagine the
getting up of selected matter the easiest
thing in the world to do, whereas it is some
of the nicest work that is done on the paper.
If they find the editor with the scissors in
hand, they are sure to say, "Eh, that is the
way you get up original matter is it?" ac-
companying their new and witty questions
with an idiotic wink or smile. The facts
are, that the interest, the morality, the va-
riety and usefulness of a paper, depend, in
no small degree, upon its selected matter,
and few men are fully capable of the position
who would not themselves be able to write
many of the articles they select. A sensi-
ble editor desires considerable selected mat-
ter, because he knows that one mind cannot
make as good a paper as five or six.—Amer-
ican newspaper Reporter.
	“The Rev. J. P. Newman, in the course
of his tour of inspection among the consu-
lates of the world, took a walk one day in
Yeddo, Japan, and passing a criminal court,
during the progress of a trial, attempted to
enter. In this he was repulsed, so he wrote
upon his card, ‘Rev. Dr. J. P. Newman,
Chaplain of United States Senate, and Spe-
cial Friend of President Grant,’ and sent it
to the authorities inside. The card was ta-
ken in with great ceremony, and soon an
answer came back, expressing the agonizing
grief of the court that there was no one
present of sufficiently high rank to receive
the visit of such an august American.”


﻿DOCTOR CROCKWELL.

	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons lor the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City. 

MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
		ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
	Office. East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D. 
opposite Old, Constitution, Building, Main
Street, Office hours—10 a.m. to 3.p. m. 

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50

			H: DINWOODEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
		storey Brick Store on

FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,

Where he is prepared to do a

WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

		NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers to increase the circulation of
the Exponent, and aid in promoting, the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent, of the view of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will, enable us to do:
10 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club	-	-	-	-	 $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of tho club	-	-	-	-	26 00.
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter,
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing 12x16 inches, of President Brigham 
	Young selling price $2.50		34 00
30 copies, 1 Year, with a copy to the getter.
	up of the club and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4	-	-	-	-	48.00 .
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the Exponent.


Woman's Exponent

