VOL. 2.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1874.			NO. 16.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A CHANGE of the suffrage laws of France
is proposed, by which 4,000,000 persons
would be deprived of franchise. The Ter-
ritories of the United States of America are
not alone in their struggle for freedom.
	THE FOGGY weather, of which Salt Lake
has had a few slight touches during the past
two or three weeks, seems to be making a
general business of calling all around this
winter. London has been considerably dis-
turbed over its rather protracted visits there;
and later, New York has been a scene of
gloomy dismay for a whole day, while the
rude, uninvited guest, hung boldly about
that city.
	LATE REPORTS of the progress of the pro-
jected Centennial are flattering. Philadel-
phia urges, that the affair is a national one
and deserves the hearty support of the en-
tire country; and New York cordially ac-
cedes. The Board of Finance has so far
confined its operations principly to Penn-
sylvania, and citizens and corporations of
that State have subscribed $3,500,000. The
prospects for foreign participation are very
encouraging.
	PROFESSOR ORTON is publishing an in-
teresting description of the new exploration
of the Amazon River, in the "Scientific
American.” In an account of the city of
Moyobamba, he says:—The only case of
drunkenness we have seen was that of a
priest.	*	*	It is a novel sight to see the
long procession of women, who are the water
carrriers of the city, descending and ascend-
ing the deep barrancas at eventide, with
pitchers on their heads, while the young
Lotharios lie in wait to make love to their
Rebeccas.
	IT IS a false impression which many peo-
ple labor under, that without there is an
abundance of wealth to be expended on a
home, it cannot be a pleasant, happy one.
A cheerful heart requires and will make a
cheerful home. There may not be elegant
pictures or costly drapery to look upon, nor
the dulcet sounds of instrumental music to
listen to. But there can be smiling faces
full of love and tenderness, which are the
most beautiful of all pictures; and songs of
joy and gladness, and words of sympathy
and fond endearment, which are the sweet-
est of all sounds.
	KEEP THE little ones warm. We cannot
help wondering what the conscience and
feelings of mothers must be made of, when
we see tiny little arms and knees come into
Sabbath School or meeting, half or entirely
naked, when there is snow on the ground
and biting frost in the air. What do moth-
ers who dress their children thus, think of?
Can it be possible that they never go out
themselves, to know how necessary warm,
comfortable clothing is, especially in winter?
They should venture out with bare legs and
arms, before sending their children out thus.
If young girls from l5 to 20 years of age,
have no better taste or judgment than to go
with bare or thinly covered arms and shoul-
ders, they have, themselves, to suffer the
consequences, But persons having the care
of little children, should know that it is
their duty, as far as possible, to see that they
are seasonably clothed.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	During the month of November, more
than two hundred deer have been killed in
Atlantic county, New Jersey, by gunners,
and still they are very numerous.

	A man died of starvation in the streets
of Edinburgh, Scotland, recently, and on re-
moving his clothing, two hundred and fifty
dollars were found concealed about his per-
son.

	THE EMINENT English astronomer, Mr. 
R. A. Proctor, says that the people of
America are in advance of those of Europe
in the general attention given to science.
The question is, did it require the use of a
telescope for him to discover that?

	The winds of fortune blow as variously as
the winds of heaven. In life there are many
storms, and there are few persons who be-
tween the cradle and grave are not caught
in a hurricane. Whether the result of acci-
dental circumstance or the outcome of hu-
man passions, it is certain that tempestuous
events overtake most men, and that skies
bright and serene will change their silver
light for darker, and often vengeful hues.

	At Cohoes a man died some twenty years ago,
leaving a widow and infant daughter. A large share
of property was bequeathed to the child, but in
case of her death before the age of twenty it was
to go to her cousin. She grew up delicate in health,
and as she approached the fatal limit the mother
and cousin bargained over the chances of life. Fi-
nally the cousin sold his chances of the inheritance
for $4,000, and because the girl died before she
was twenty he sued the mother to recover the en-
tire property, alleging that he was deceived as to
the state of the girl's health. The courts say that
won't do; he must stand by his bargain.

	A young girl of fourteen, living in the
town of Albion, N. Y., has proved herself
to be of heroic stuff. She and a five-year-
old brother went into the woods a few days
since, on a nutting excursion, and becoming
lost, they were compelled to remain all night
without shelter. To protect her little broth-
er, the noble girl stripped off her outer gar-
ments, and soothing him to quiet and sleep
in her arms, sat through the long and dreary
hours while her own limbs were freezing.
When found the next forenoon, she was un-
able to stand on her feet, but the physicians
hope to be able to save her life and limbs.
We hope they will succeed.

	THE BIRTH-PLACE of Professor Louis John
Rudolph Agassiz, was Motiers, Switzerland,
and his birth-day, May 28th, 1807. It is
said of him, that whether his hearers agreed
with his opinions or condemned them,
whether they were capable of grasping the
thread of his consummate arguments, or
failed to appreciate the single hearted devo-
tion with which he embraced the study of
science for itself alone; or whether, con-
scious of inferiority, they shrank from the
encounter, their sympathies were irresisti-
bly drawn towards him; and the magic of
his voice, his winning smile and the sinceri-
ty of his purpose, gained their trust and con-
fidence.


FLOWERS.

	It matters not so much how a man dies,
but how he lives.
	The rays of happiness, like those of light,
are colorless when unbroken.
	That is true plenty, not to have, but not
to want, riches.—St. Chrysostom.
	Almost the best rule of life is to be wor-
thy of one’s self.—S. P. Herron.
	Solitude shows us what we should be, so-
ciety shows us what we are.—Cecil.
	Every temptation is great or small accord-
ing as the man is.—Jeremy Taylor.
	Plato says that God has so framed His laws
that it is for the advantage of every one to
observe them.
	The bread of life is love; the salt of life
is work; the sweetness of life is poesy; the
water of life, faith.—Jameson.
	No man is born into the world whose work
is not born with him; there is always work
and tools to work with for all those who will,
and blessed are the heavy hands of all toil.
—Lowell.
	MRS. HAMMOND, who, with her husband
and three children, was lost in the Ville du
Havre, was a daughter of M. Charles Hip-
peau, an eminent French historian and an-
tiquarian.
	Confucius said: “To dwell with a good
man is like entering a house wherein are the
fragrant 'lan' flowers; after a while you may
not seem to smell the fragrance, because
your whole person has become impregnated
with the fragrance."
	Choose Good Friends.—There is nothing
which contributes more to the sweetness of
life than friendship; there is nothing which
disturbs our repose more than friends, if we
have not the discernment to choose them
well.
	Good, kind, true, holy words, dropped in
conversation, may be little thought of, but
they are like seeds of flowers or fruitful trees
falling by the wayside, borne by some birds
afar; haply, therefore,to fringe with beauty
some barren mountain side, or to make glad
some lonely wilderness.
	A poetical writer has said that some men
move through life as a band of music moves
down the street, flinging out pleasure on
every side through the air to every one, far
and near, that can listen. Some men fill the
air with their strength and sweetness, as
the orchards in October days fill the air with
ripe fruit. Some women cling to their own
houses like the honeysuckle over the door;
yet, like it, fill all the region with the subtle
fragrance of their goodness. How great a
bounty and blessing it is so to hold the roy-
al gifts of the soul that they shall be music
to some, fragrance to others, and life to all!
It would be no unworthy thing to live for,
to make the power which we have within
us the breath of other men’s joys; to fill the
atmosphere which they stand in with a
brightness which they cannot create for
themselves.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


﻿APOSTROPHE TO JERUSALEM.

	Thou City with a cherished name—
		A name in garlands drest
	Adorned with ancient sacred fame
		As City of the blest.
	
	Thy rulers once were mighty men—
		Thy sons renown’d in war:
	Thy smiles were sought and courted then
		By people from afar.
	
	A holy Temple, built as God
		Directed it should be;
	In which His glory shone abroad,
		With heav’nly majesty;
	
	Was great adornment to thy place,
		And lustre to thy name;
	With much of grandeur,wealth and grace,
		To magnify thy fame.
	
	The Lord was with thee then, and deign,d,
		In speech well understood,
	Through prophets, by His wisdom trained,
		To counsel for thy good.
	
	Attracted by illustrious fame,
		As by a ruling star,
	To study wisdom, people came
		From other climes afar.
	
	Thine then, a chosen, favor’d land,
		Was crowned with plenty’s smile; 
	The mountains dropp’d down fatness,and
		The hillsides, wine and oil.
	
	And thou wert like a golden gem
		Upon a nation’s brow.
	Jerusalem, Jerusalem,
		Alas! What art thou now?
	
	Degraded, and on every hand.
		From wisdom all estrang’d:
	Thy glory has departed! and
		All, but thy name, is chang’d.
	
	From God withdrawn—by Him forsook—
		To all intents depraved:
	Beneath the Turkish iron yoke
		Thou long hast been enslaved.

	Divested of all heav’nly rites,
		Thy crest has fallen low:
	Around thy walls are squalid sights
		Of beggary and woe.

	Thy streets are narrow, filthy lanes,
		Offensive to the breath;
	Thy pools appear like sewer drains
		That breed disease and death.

	No Temple, now that God design’d—
		No church by Him approved—
	No prophet to reveal His mind,
		By inspiration moved.

	Where once a royal Banner spread,
		The Crescent’s waving now.
	A sable wreath is on thy head, 
		And blood upon thy brow.

	The curse of God thy changes wrought,
		Thro’ crimes the Jews have done, 
	When they His counsels set at nought,
		And crucified His Son.

	Since then, has retribution’s hand
		Put forth its fearful skill
	Upon thy structures and thy land,
		A destiny to fill.

	Thy children, Seed of Israel
		Of God’s “peculiar care,”
	On whom the weight of judgment fell,
		Are scattered everywhere.
		*	*	*	*	*	*	
	Thy sun has not forever set—
		God has a great design,
	And will fulfil his purpose yet.
		Concerning Palestine.

	Th’ appointed time will surely come;
		According to His will,
	For God, with “faithful Abraham,” 
		His cov’nants to fulfil.

	Thyself redeem’d from deep disgrace
		Of filth and negligence;
	These uncouth structures shall give place 
		To taste and elegance.

	Thy walls shall be of precious stones—
		Thy gates of richest pearl;
	And on thy tow’ring battlements,
		Shall sacred banners furl.

	The Seed of Jacob, then shall dwell
		In bold security:
	More than the former glory, shall
		Thy latter glory be.
							ELIZA R. SNOW.
Jerusaiem, Palestine, March 4, 1873.


﻿R. S. REPORTS.

	Mrs. Ann Logan writes from Manti, San-
pete County, that the Society of sisters in
that place is a very good and energetic one,
willing and anxious to do all they can to help
in every righteous work. Money is very
scarse there, times quite favorable in other
respects.
	In a report from Mrs, S. Gibson, of the
Sugar House Ward, S. L. City, we find the
following intelligence:—Mrs. Ellen Tofield
Stringham, who has been a faithful teacher
in this Society, departed this life on the 22nd
of December, 1873. She was a native of
Buckinghamshire, England, born Novem-
ber 26th, 1821; emigrated to Utah in the
hand cart company, in 1856. Her near asso-
ciates and familiar acquaintances realize
that in her, they have lost, for a time, a true
friend, one who was always ready to give a
good word of counsel, or to assist those who
were in need of assistance.
	On Saturday, Jan. 3rd 1874, the General
Retrenchment Meeting, held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, was but sparsely at-
tended, owing to the very unfavorable state
of the weather. Those present, however,
enjoyed the spirit of unity, and much good
feeling was manifested. Counselor Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, who, in the absence of
President Mrs, M. I. Horne, presided over
the meeting, said to the sisters that she
thought of late, there was too great lack of
punctuality among them. Their meetings
were appointed at 2 o’clock, not half past 2,
and they should each one make it a point to
be there at the appointed time.
	A report from Harrisville, informs us that
at a late meeting of the Society, several la-
dies from Salt Lake City and other places
were present as visitors, and that much good
was realized from their teachings. The
health of the President, Mrs. Melissa Shirt-
liff, we regret to learn is poor. The Society
generally, is alive to a sense of its many du-
ties. Secretary, Mrs. Mary E. Taylor.
	The 138th meeting of the Relief Society
of Bountiful, Davis Co., is reported by Mrs.
Jane C. Hale, the Assistant Secretary. Miss
Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D. Young and
others from Salt Lake City, were present,
and a very interesting meeting was held by
the Society, of which Mrs. E. H. Barlow is
President, and Mrs. Mary Carter Secretary.
	On the afternoon of Thursday,the 8th inst.,
an annual meeting of the 8th Ward Relief
Society, was held in the Ward meeting
house, Pres. Mrs. Mary A. Leaver presiding.
Bishop Sheets and his counselors favored
the sisters with their presence. Miss E. R.
Snow Mrs. Phebe Woodruff and Mrs. L.
Greene Richards were also present by es-
pecial invitation. The meeting was a pleas-
ant and profitable one, and after its close,the
company was served to a very suitable and
well prepared supper.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

	Cedar City, Iron Co., Dec, 28th 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT,—
	DEAR SISTER:
	Though personally unknown to you, I feel
as if we were old acquaintances. Your val-
uable paper comes as a friend, and is wel-
comed as such; I take great pleasure in read-
ing it, and try to carry out the good instruc-
tions contained therein.
	The sisters throughout the Territory,ought
to feel grateful that we have the privilege
of communicating with, and expressing our


feelings to each other, through its columns,
How many have formed friendships in days
gone by, whose paths in life have widely
separated, and like Martha of old, they are
“troubled about many things," therefore can-
not find time to correspond with all; and
what a comfort for such to learn of each
other occasionally through the paper. Accept
my kind regards, and heart-felt wishes for
the onward progress of the EXPONENT.
				  MARY ANNE LUNT.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	After a struggle between "I cant," and
"I'll try," I conclude that I can willingly
bear my testimony to the truth of the work
in which we are engaged; that the Gospel of
Jesus Christ is all truth and no error, and
that polygamy is one of its true principles,
which with the rest is necessary for the sal-
vation and exaltation of men and women,
both here in this life, and in that life which
is to come. I can also testify, that the wo-
men of Utah are not the down-trodden vas-
sals which many have believed them to be;
but that they are free to believe the Gospel
or not, free to embrace all of its principles
or a part of them, or none at all, free to live
in Utah or to go out of it, free to

	“Choose their lives and what they'll be!
	For this eternal truth is given,
	That God will force no man to heaven.”

—Nor woman either.
			     AMELIA GOLDSBROUGH.


HARRISVILLE, January 9th 1874.
	I wish to write a few words,to mingle my
voice with those of my sisters. I feel that
we ought to be the most thankful women in
the world. Where else do women have the
rights and blessings that we enjoy? We have
the privilege of associating with the Saints
of God, and of living in the Order of Celes-
tial marriage, which gives us the privilege
of marrying the men of our choice, also of
marrying good men; which I esteem among
the greatest of all blessings. I have lived
in polygamy twenty years, as the second
wife; and have nine chiidren and one grand-
child born and have never for a moment re-
gretted my choice. And I am thankful that
the women of the Saints have the opportu-
nity offered them of speaking for themselves,
through the columns of the EXPONENT.
This I regard as a great advantage and ever
pray that we may justly appreciate and wise-
ly use the benefits afforded us.
				     MARY E. TAYLOR.


IN PERU, business is fairly at a stand still.
Exchange is not to be had on any terms, the
harbors are deserted and the government
has forbidden the exportation of coin. The
financial epidemic has struck heavily there.

	TRUST CHILDREN.—Never accuse a child
of a fault unless you are certain he commit-
ted it. Children should not be treated with
suspicion. We should act toward them in
in this matter as we feel we ought to act to-
ward others, only with greater tenderness—
not less, as is usually done. We should al-
ways put the best construction possible upon
their conduct; that is, unless you are sure a
child is telling a lie, and can prove it, do not
show the least hesitation to believe what he
says. Far better that you should be deceiv-
ed, than run the risk of showing a truthful
child you do not trust him. Your simple
trust may make a lying child truthful. Your
doubt of his truthfulness may make a truth-
ful child a liar.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OPENING ADDRESS.

DELIVERED BY MASTER HEBER CUMMINGS
AT THE 14TH WARD NEW YEAR'S PIC-NIC.

	To our Parents, Friends, Patrons of our
Sunday School and the Priesthood of our
Ward: we bid you a hearty welcome to this
our Jubilee.
	We have this day entered upon the com-
mencement of a New Year. And as we are
taught that we are living in the latter days,
when mighty events are to succeed each
other in rapid succession; the great purposes
of the Almighty to be accomplished; and
all the unfulfilled prophecies of past ages to
be fulfilled; we hope and trust that this may
be a year to which we may all look back, in
the future, with joy, pride and thanksgiv-
ing. With joy that the kingdom of God is
increasing and growing on every side, and
in every good thing. With pride that we
have each one kept the commandments of
God, and performed all faithfully our part,
in the great work of life. And with thanks-
giving to our Heavenly Father who has per-
mitted us to live in this dispensation, to take
part in his mighty work, and for preserving
us from our enemies, and from the evils that
surround us on every side.
	To my young friends and companions I
would say: as time rolls swiftly on, let us
try to fit and prepare ourselves, by diligence
and obedience for the great work that lies
before us; let us seek to emulate the noble
examples of those who have grown gray in
planting the principles of truth firmly upon
the earth, and who, with the blessings of
God, have made us what we are to-day, no-
ble sons of noble sires. Let us follow in
their footsteps, that in good time we may
be qualified to take the burden from their
shoulders, and carry on the good work they
have so nobly begun. This is the line of
our duty: our parents pray for it. Our lead-
ers expect it. Our Heavenly Father de-
mands it as the price of our salvation and
exaltation. God grant that their prayers,
expectations and demands be not in vain.
	To the Daughters of Zion, our Sisters, we
would say: Let us be united in this great
work, and move side by side in all the great
reforms of the latter days. Let us put from
us, all that vanity and pride of wealth, dress,
and station, that is lurking around, and
striving to fasten itself upon us: Let us
hurl from us those hideous fashions, that so
terribly deform and disfigure the human
form divine; as something that is degrading
and corrupting. Let us remember who, and
what we are. Let us try to realize our true
position—that we are the children of the
chosen people of God, princes and princesses
of the royal blood of Joseph.
	All honor to the Priesthood, who have
taught, and are still teaching us the princi-
ples of truth and righteousness: Honor to
our teachers who labor for our well being,
and happiness: Honor to our parents who
seek to train us up in the paths that lead to
life and salvation.
	Again; we, the children here assembled
bid you welcome; and through your humble
servant, a Happy New Year.

		YOUNG LADIES' ADDRESS.

DELIVERED BY MISS MATTIE J. HORNE.

	We the Daughters of Zion, also bid you
welcome. 
	We heartily coincide with our brothers
in those feelings of gratitude to our Heav-
enly Father and his Holy Priesthood, for
our glorious privileges, our surroundings,
and our prospects for the future. 
	We desire in no way to come short of our
brothers in the discharge of those duties
which are required of us. We wish to share
in their trials, tribulations and sacrifices, if
by so doing we can help to establish correct
principles, and secure to ourselves an exal-
tation in the kingdom of our God.
	Although young, we are well aware that
we are surrounded by many influences that
would tend to enslave us and lead us to for-
get our religion and our God: and while we
admit that some few are led to forget what
is due from the children of promise, and
suffer themselves to be led and controlled by
the spirit of the world, yet we have faith in
our sisters. We know the hearts of a large
majority are right before God: and that they
will live to realize and enjoy the many bless-
ings pronounced upon their heads.
	We look to our brothers for counsel, pro-
tection, and above all, for examples. And
would say to them as they have said to us,
"Let us work side by side in all the great
reforms of the last days."
	And further, let us put from us those evil
practices that have lately been introduced
into our midst: Let us not be found hang-
ing around drinking shops, breathing the
foul air of drunkards: Let us try to feel that
our presence is not needed, to grace any
billiard or other gambling saloon: Let us not
be guilty of promenading our beautiful
streets, behind ten cents worth of filthy to-
bacco: Let us remember that the divine gift
of language was not conferred that we might
speak disrespectfully of the Giver: Let it
not be said that we were seen wending our
way over Jordan, with a gun upon our
shoulder, or to some field of ice with our
skates under our arm, on the day which
God has said we should remember and keep
holy.
	But let us frown down EVERY THING, in-
troduced into our midst, that is interdicted
by our parents and leaders, that has a de-
basing tendency, and seek for, and practice
every thing that tends to exalt and ennoble
us in the scale of being.
	Brothers, lead out! we are with you, heart
and hand in every thing that will promote
the welfare of Zion.
	We love the principles of the Gospel; we
love our Mountain Home; we are thankful
to our Heavenly Father for our peace and
prosperity, and feel to exclaim with Sister
E.R. Snow in one of her beautiful poems:—
	We thank Thee for these mountain vales,
	Where life abounds, and peace prevails;
	The plenteous products of the land
	Declare the bounty of Thy hand.

	We'll sing hosannas unto Thee,
	Whose power and wisdom made us free,
	Till congregated worlds resound
	Thy praise to all creations round.


[Column 1]		LOCAL NOTES.

	ALLOW US TO COMMEND
The gentlemanly officials of the Utah South-
ern Rail Road. They gratuitously landed
"old Santa" in the 15th Ward of this city,
laden with four tons of coal to be distribu-
ted among the poor of the Ward. May the
frost king never block the wheels on their
track.
	THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY
For Utah Territory met in the City Hall of
this city, on Monday the 12th inst., at 2 P M.
		YOUR REPORTER
Was kindly received, and soon found her-
self pleasantly located in the House of Rep-
resentatives, surrounded by a goodly por-
tion of what is understood to be the choic-
est intellect of the Territory.

[Column 2]
	A TEMPORARY ORGANIZATION
Was effected by calling Mr. Rockwood to
the chair, and electing Mr. R. L. Campbell
Clerk pro tem. A committee on credentials,
reported what gentlemen were entitled to
seats in the House; namely:
	Beaver and Piute Counties, John R. Mur-
dock.
	Box Elder County, Jonathan C. Wright.
	Cache and Rich Counties, Marriner W.
Merrill, John Nebeker.
	Davis and Morgan Counties, William R.
Smith, Willard G. Smith.
	Iron County, Silas S. Smith.
	Juab County, Joel Grover.
	Kane and Washington Counties, Lorenzo
W. Roundy.
	Millard County, Edward Partridge.
	Salt Lake County, Orson Pratt, John Tay-
lor, A. P. Rockwood, S. A. Mann, B. Young,
Jr., Joseph F. Smith.
	Sanpete and Sevier Counties, William
Morrison, George Peacock.
	Summit County, W. W. Cluff.
	Tooele County, John Rowberry.
	Utah County, Albert K. Thurber, William
B. Pace, George Halliday.
	Wasatch County, Abram Hatch.
	Weber County, Franklin D. Richards,
Lorin Farr.
	THE HON. SECRETARY BLACK
Administered the oath of office to the mem-
bers elect, after which a permanent organi-
zation was effected by elections being made
as follows:
	Speaker of the House, Hon. Orson Pratt.
	Chief Clerk, Robert L. Campbell.
	Assistant Clerk, Richard J. Taylor.
	Enrolling Clerk, Joan M. Campbell.
	Engrossing Clerk, E. W. East.
	Sergeant-at-arms, Milando Pratt,
	Door-keeper, Samuel H. B. Smith.
	Messenger, Albert C. Young.
	Watchman, John Smith.
				(TO US,
An interesting feature in the above organi-
zation, was the administering of the oath
of office—with others—to the enrolling clerk,
Miss Joan M. Campbell. We trust, and
doubt not, that she will honor the sacred
trust confided to her.)
		A COMMITTEE,
Consisting of Messrs Mann, Rockwood and
Farr, was appointed to wait upon his Excel-
lency, Governor Woods, and notify him that
the House was organized and ready for his
message, or any communication that he
might choose to offer.
		A LITTLE PARLEYING
On the subject of a Chaplain, (Congress hav-
ing annuled that office) and Zebedee Coltrin
was appointed, to be paid from the treasury
of the Territory.
			MR. MANN
Announced that the Committee appointed
had conferred with his Excellency, the Gov-
ernor, who would be pleased to communi-
cate his Message to the joint assembly, at 11
o'clock A. M., on Tuesday.
			A MESSAGE
Was sent to the Council, inviting its Hon.
Members to meet with the House on Tues-
day at the appointed hour, to receive the
Governor's Message.
			AN INVITATION
To attend the Salt Lake Theatre on Tuesday
evening was received by the Members of
the House. (One gentleman quietly insin-
uated that he did not care to go if all the
ladies were to be left out in the cold.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

			L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a.m., and from 2 to 3 p.m. on Mondays and
Fridays. 
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah. 

			SALT LAKE CITY. JAN. 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	Cherry trees are in bloom on the Pacific
slope....A plastic cast of Prof. Agassiz' face
was taken by Preston Powers....Miss Antoi-
nette Sterling, an American girl, is singing
in London, it is said with great success......
A paper lately started in New York, devoted
to the interests of the Patrons of Husband-
ry, bears the name and motto of "The
Scythe," "to mow down monopoly and ex-
tortion"......Iowa City in order to invest in
a theatre, has sold its public library at auc-
tion......A Derby, Conn., farmer has had the
good fortune to have a lead mine discovered
on his farm......California produced 1,000
bales of cotton last year........A brother of
Mrs. President Grant, Judge Louis Dent, is
seriously ill...A nephew of Victor Emman-
uel, the Duke of Genoa, lately arrived in
San Fransisco......A list of the creditors of
Jay Cooke & Co., has been published...Short-
ly before his death, Prof. Agassiz wrote to
Newfoundland to gain full particulars about
a "devil-fish," which but recently appeared
on that coast......New York city is to have a
new theatre to be known as the "Bucking-
ham," which will cover 13,342 square feet
......The Common Council of Poughkeepsie,
N. Y., is composed, with a single exception,
of temperance men.....Since 1871, nearly
2,500 enlisted men have deserted from their
regiments in the Pacific States and Territo-
ries......Wheat sells for less, by 33 percent.,
than potatoes, bushel for bushel, in Moline,
Ill......The United States Consul at Copen-
hagen, Hon, G. W. Griffin, has been elected
Fellow of the Denmark Royal Association of
Northern Antiquities...It is reported that a
Vicksburg girl has gone crazy because her fa-
ther would not let her appear in a certain per-
formance on the stage.....Seth Adams who
died recently in Boston, left an estate valued
at 1,700,000.....An ear of corn with 1,816
grains has been produced in Franklin town-
ship, Pennsylvania......A distemper among
cats is prevalent in Lawrence, Massachusetts
......The law requiring the printing of pub-
lic documents for general distribution, has
been repealed by the Senate......Agassiz'
physicians are said to be greatly puzzled over
the nature of his disease......There is a pet-
rified hog in Dunbarton, N. H., that died
and was buried 15 years ago......The schools
of St. Louis are giving great satisfaction
with the Kindergarten system......Raleigh,
N. C., has no public school......Again the
Kentucky Legislature is considering a con-
stitutional convention......Bishops in Ger-
many are hereafter required to swear alle-
giance to the State......During the year of
1873, $4,493,000 have been given or pledged
to American colleges....In the public schools
of Tennessee, there are 178,076 pupils, of
whom 24,325 are colored.....Caleb Cushing
is to address the survivors of the Mexican 
War at Washington to-day, Jan. 15th.....Mr.
Hatch, Republican Senator from Hale Co.,
has been expelled from the Alabama Senate.


For the EXPONENT.
			PRAYER.

	Prayer is the sweet incense of the soul.
It lends a gentle influence to the mind; en-
wraps our thoughts, to draw them away from
the corruptible things of time and mortality;
refines the sensitive part of our beings;
leads us to higher qualities; and makes us
aspire to heavenly things. It enables us to
keep in store, treasures of sacred knowledge.
The child who is early taught to pray, in
riper years, cannot easily be led to follow
after vice, or become wicked. In its re-
flective moments, it yearns to offer a simple


prayer to our Father in Heaven for some
favor or implore forgiveness for an error
committed in an unguarded moment. Can
that child, or person go to ruin, who offers
up daily prayer in meekness and sincerity,
or will the Angels of righteousness forsake
such? Prayer brings blessings that cannot
be obtained without it, and is answered by
the bestowal of faith, wisdom, prudence and
divine love with a fulness of joy. How
necessary then, that mothers in Israel teach
their children to pray; that while they are
innocent, and their minds free from guile,
impressions may be made, that cannot be
obliterated. We should not let anything
lay in our way, to hinder us from the dis-
charge of these obligations which we owe to
our children. To instruct them in the
principles of eternal truth, and in setting
examples before them, worthy to be imita-
ted. We should not neglect to pray before
our children, and to call on them to pray,
vocally, and in secret. If they do not un-
derstand, we can teach them in simple lan-
guage, to express a prayer, like that of our
Savior. He taught His disciples, saying,
"Our Father who art in heaven." He gave
them this pattern, that they might call upon
the Father, in simplicity and truth, and
said "in like manner pray ye."		MARY.
	SALT LAKE CITY.


[Column 1]
		TIME AND LABOR.

	Hours, days and years are given to all people
much the same, but for many different purposes.
It would not do for all to engage in the same
pursuits; there must be a great variety of occu-
pations to satisfy all the different wants and
tastes of mankind; and in the wise providences
of creation, it is not designed that any should
be idlers. As all must live and all consume, all
must necessarily be provided for in some way;
and it is but mete that each one should share
in the vast amount of labor which must be per-
formed upon the earth, in order that its inhab-
itants may be fed, clothed and sheltered.
	And yet we often see strong, intellectual, fine
looking men loitering about street corners, or
lounging in stores and shops, as seemingly un-
concerned as if they had been placed upon the
earth for no particular purpose, with nothing
in the world to do. We find healthy, sprightly
appearing women, possessed of abundance of
intelligence and ability, promenading the side-
walks, or sitting at ease, with no apparent aim
in life—as though nothing could be required at
their hands but to laugh and fritter the golden
hours away. And such persons nearly always
contrive to be ostentatiously dressed, which
sometimes leads thinking people to try to un-
derstand how they manage; or how they would
get along when, in the events of fortune, they
may chance to be left to their own resources.
And next, to wonder what account they will
render to God for the precious time and gifts he

[Column 2]
so graciously lends them; and which they in
no worthy manner are bringing into use.
	To every one is given talents of some kind,
to be improved, and with which to accomplish
good to self and for others. We have said that
different vocations must necessarily be followed
by different people. And for this cause are va-
rying fancies, desires and abilities given to dif-
ferent individuals.
	But whatever their daily pursuits may be, it
is surely the right and duty of all to seek to im-
prove the mental faculties, to increase in intel-
ligence and develop thought, thus producing a
multiplicity of blessings in nameless ways.
	It cannot be justly required of any one, even
a servant to labor continuously, until all the
powers are exhausted, and there remains no
time or inclination to seek and grasp the
brightening influence and lasting benefits ac-
cruing from intelligent reflection, or from the
study of books and nature in all their varied
phases. We believe almost as little in constant
drudgery as in allowing time to pass away un-
improved. For although the latter course can
accomplish no good, there is often much harm
done by the pursuance of the former.
	Unremitting hard work, with little or no at-
tention to self culture, will soon bring husband
and wife to feel that they are mere partners in
some business transaction, instead of being
what they should be, and that which they have
covenanted to be to each other.
	The Spirit of God, the spirit of love and
union cannot stay in rich abundance, where all
is hurry-scurry, and work, work, work! with
no time devoted to quiet  thoughtful repose, or
to prayer and praise.
	It requires wisdom, we know, to be able to
discriminate properly between the portion of
time  which should be spent in work, and those
portions which should be given to study, recrea-
tion and rest. But it is a subject of which all
should endeavor to gain a proper understand-
ing. Were this done, and the knowledge, when
obtained, put into useful practice by the masses
of the people, great reforms would be brought
about in regard to time and labor.


APPRECIATIVE.

	In a large meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association, held
in the 14th Ward Hall, Salt Lake City, Jan. 17,
1874, the following resolutions were read and
unanimously accepted.
	Resolved—That we, ladies of Utah, recognize
the movements of Woman State and City As-
sociations, in memorializing Congress in be-
half of Territorial Woman Suffrage, and in op-
posing certain disgraceful suicidal bills, now
before Congress, as efforts in the right direc-
tion, and in consonance with the true spirit of
liberty, American Republicanism, and, of so-
cial and national progress.
	Resolved—That we, in meeting assembled,
unitedly express our true appleciation of their
labors of love; with thanks to the ladies of
Boston and Massachusetts, New York, Indian-
apolis, St. Louis, Missouri, and Santa Clara
Cal. Woman's Suffrage Associations—also every
other organization, and all individuals that
have exercised an influence to sustain us in our
rights as American citizens—for the interest
manifested in support of those inalienable
privileges guaranteed by our sacred Constitu-
tion, which are now being threatened with ex-
tinction, through political piracy.
	Resolved—that we also give an expression of
our sympathies with our sisters in the States—
sincerely hoping and trusting that ere long,
their efforts in their own behalf will be crown-


ed with the right of franchise in which they
are nobly aiming to sustain us.
	Resolved—That copies of the foregoing Reso-
lutions be sent to WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Desert
News and Salt Lake Herald.
			MRS. MARY I. HORNE, PRES.
	MISS ANNIE SMITH, SEC.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


COMMENTS.

	A lady editor, in one of the North-western
States, after visiting the Legislative Hall, re-
ports that the deportment of the members of
the Assembly is very ungentlemanly. We are
pleased and gratified, that we are able to re-
port quite the reverse concerning the Legisla-
tive Assembly of Utah. Nowhere, certainly,
could a more complete body of real gentleman
be found than that which composes the above
named assembly. When we visited the Hall,
we marked with pleasure, the peculiar air of
neatness, good taste and good order with which
everything was arranged. Not the slightest
disagreeable perfume, as of tobacco smoke, or
the appearance of anything which might prove
offensive to the most refined and delicate sense,
were perceptible, so far as we were able to no-
tice. And in the transacting of public busi-
ness, most agreeable and obliging dispositions
were manifested. We can safely say that no
country in Utah has reason to be ashamed of
its representative, or representatives.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A WRITER from Bountiful, Davis Co., who
subscribes herself "Your true friend, though a
'Gentile,'" fails to give us her name private-
ly—as custom and the rights of the press de-
mand; which we regret, as her communication
is well worth publishing.
	MISS SARAH E. Russel, who is spending the
winter with friends in Richmond, Ray Co.,
Missouri, writes us, privately, from that place.
Many sincere friends in this city, will be
gratified to learn that this very estimable young
lady is in good health, and enjoying a pleasant
visit among old associates.
	THE NEW Year's picnic in the 14th Ward of
this city, was a very pleasing affair. About
two hundred and fifty juveniles belonging to the
Ward, were first seated at tables, and partook
of a repast, in every way suitable to the occa-
sion—the adults having by unanimous voice,
given the little folks the precedence for the day.
After the children, their parents, Sabbath
School Teachers and friends were feasted. The
company in all, amounted to something over
four hundred. Especial care was taken by the
committee of arrangements, that the poor of
the Ward should be liberally provided for.
Notwithstanding the large number of children
present, the best of order was preserved during
the entire proceedings of the day and evening;
which consisted of music and singing, addresses,
social conversation, feasting and dancing. The
committee was deserving of much credit, for
their praiseworthy efforts, which were re-
warded with success. Mr Heber Cummings
and Miss Mattie Horne also merit especial no-
tice for the excellent manner in which they re-
cited the Young Gentleman's and Young La-
dies' addresses, written for the occasion by the
Superintendent of the Ward Sabbath School,
Bro. George H. Taylor, and given in another
column of the present issue of the EXPONENT.
	ON THE second Monday in February, the Mu-
niciple officers for this city will be elected.
	THE RELIEF Society of the 14th Ward will
give a Select party on Friday evening, the 23rd


inst., in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms. Mrs.
M. I. Horne, Mrs. W. East, Mrs. S. B. Wilkin-
son, Mrs. J. C. Richardson, Mrs. E. S. Taylor
and Mrs. E. J. Stevenson constitute the Com-
mittee of Arrangements, and no doubt the en-
tertainment will be one of the best and most
enjoyable of the season. We wish the ladies
perfect success, and return thanks for their kind
invitation extended to us.
	WE ARE pleased to offer grateful acknowl-
edgements, not only in our own name, but also
in behalf of our sisters who were specified in a
motion of Mr. L. E. Harrington, member of
the Legislative Council, by which the freedom
of the Council Chamber has been extended to
leading representative ladies of this city. We
consider this act of the Council very courteous,
and deserving sincere thanks.


[For the EXPONENT
		A WORD FOR MOTHERS.

	I made the remark last fall, to a member
of our family, "Would it not be better for
Johnny to let the peaches alone till they are
ripe? then we all can have the good of
them." She replied, "If he does not pick 
them the neighbor's boys will; for ever since
the apricots began to ripen, they have run
through the orchard, climbed the trees, and
pelted each other with the fruit."
	Now I could not help reflecting—why is
this? Do we mothers teach our children
as we ought? Do we teach them to respect
our neighbor's rights? And that it is just
as wrong to trespass on a neighbor's prem-
ises, as it is to go into his house; take away
or destroy anything therein? Do we incul-
cate the strictest principles of honesty in
our children, by precept and example? (For
without example precept is of little avail.)
Do we watch diligently the dispositions and
tendencies of our children, and the moment
we see anything wrong, endeavor, by loving
words to correct that error; impressing on
their young and tender minds, the awful
consequences which will result in after life,
if these evil tendencies are suffered to go
unchecked?
	Many will say—"Oh, they will know bet-
ter when they grow older." I tell you they
will not, unless you teach them better! And
we cannot begin too soon to encourage in
them the love of truth and honesty. How
pleasing and gratifying it is to a mother, to
know that she can depend on the word of
her child, that he will tell the truth, even
though that truth may argue against him-
self. Every intelligent mother wishes her
children to command, by their upright con-
duct, the respect of all good people; and this
is only to be attained by the strict obser-
vance of these principles of right.
	I remember when I was very young, while
going home through the market, of seeing
by a stall, a hamper of peas, (the first of the
season.) While standing, looking at them
very wishfully, I saw a little girl take a
handful unnoticed by the woman who owned
the stall. So I thought, surely I may take
one. When I got home, father asked me
where I got it, I told him, and he led me by
the hand, right back to the stall, and made
me on my knees ask the woman's pardon for
stealing. Then he led me into the quiet
church-yard, and there portrayed to me in
vivid language the terrible enormity of be-
ing a thief! Making me realize that it was
his duty to correct me, and that I would
thank him for it when I grew older. He re-
cited to me the dreadful incident of a young
man who was condemned to be hung, and
who, when taken to the gallows, asked to
see his mother. When she came close to


him he bit off her ear. Of course the by-
standers were horrified at such unnatural
conduct, but he told them she had never
taught him not to steal, or he would never
have come to such a dreadful end. Perhaps
some may think this was a great ado about
a little, but it was a life long lesson to me,
and how infinitely better than a hasty whip-
ping would have been. No doubt many who
were brought up by pious parents can recol-
lect receiving similar teachings. And shall
we as mothers in Zion be behind our secta-
rian parents? No verily! for our duty to our
children, to our God, and to mankind de-
mands our utmost diligence in this respect.
S. L. City, Jan. 11th, 1874. A. A. P.


HOME FEELING.
			—
	O ye fathers and mothers who have sons
and daughters growing up around you, do you
ever think of your responsibility in this re-
gard—your responsibility for keeping alive
the home sentiment in the hearts of your
children? Within the limits of your means,
remember that the obligation rests on you
to make their home the pleasantest place on
this rolling earth; to make the word“home”
for them the synonym for “happiness.” I
would not have you import the vices of the
outside world into your homes for any pur-
pose; but I would have you go to the utmost
verge of what is moral, to provide at home
those things which entice young and grow-
ing persons away from home. Let me assure
you that you had better spend your money
in doing this than in ostentation or luxury,
and far, far better spend it thus, than to
amass a fortune for your children to squan-
der in the future. And not only as regards
amusements, but also comfort and refinement,
for children have a keen appreciation for
these things—this is much the best policy.
Don’t send your boy to school in illfitting
garments, collar all awry and chafing his
neck, buttons missing and shoes down at the
heel, don’t make a warehouse or clothes-press
of his room. Don't feed him on sour bread,
and tough meat, and burnt coffee. Don,t let
noise and dissension and misrule spoil the
hours he spends at home. Don’t do any of
these things if you can possibly avoid it,
especially don’t do them for the pur-
pose of laying up money for his future
use. The richest legacy you can leave
him is a life-long inextinguishable and fra-
grant recollection of his home, when time
and death have forever dissolved the en-
chantment. Give him that, and he will, in
the strength of it, make his own way in the
world; but let his recollections of home be
repulsive, and the fortune you may leave
him will be a poor compensation for the loss
of that tenderness of heart and purity of
life which not only a pleasant home, but the
memory of one, would have secured. Re-
member this, too, that, while he will never
feel grateful for your money when once you
are under ground, he will go to your green
grave and bless your very ashes for that
sanctuary of quiet, comfort and refinement
into which you may, if you possess the
means, transform your home.
							R. N. Y.


In middle life we hesitate to sit in judg-
ment upon any one; we read slowly and
reverently the untranslated scripture of an-
others heart; but in youth we are confident,
and assign motives and intentions as glibly
as children pretend to read nursery tales
which they have learned by rote.—Celia Bur-
leigh.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT

		DAUGHTERS OF ZION.

Daughters of Zion, up, up and awake
From the slumbers that bind you, their strong fetters
	break!
Up, trim your lamps quickly, and let your light shine
Amid earth's deep darkness with splendor divine.

Let the power of the Gospel, life's dross all consume,
That its precious sweet truth in your souls may have
	room:
And work—for the Harvest is ripe for the floor,
And the storms of destruction are nigh at the door.

There is famine on earth for the pure "bread of life,"
And its children are sick of the pain and the strife;
But they wander in darkness, the blind lead the blind,
And evil's strong fetters its weak victims bind.

Oh daughters of Zion! there's a great work to do—
Will you bear a brave part with the good and the true?
Will you help to redeem this fair earth from sin,
And from its deep sorrows her frail children win?

Let this be your study, that Zion be pure,
That no evil passions her light may obscure;
That the Word may go forth with great power and might
And her people be strong in the battle for right.

Think not to sit down by the wayside to rest,
'Till the haven is won in the land of the blest;
But keep your lamps bright as you journey along—
Each may guide some poor soul in the wandering throng.
										HOPE.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Since obedience of the right kind is not the mere
outward acknowledgment of superior power, but
must arise from the heart, we must make it our
study to win and keep the respect, confidence, and
love of our charge. We have great help here in
the natural relation existing between parent and
child, and which, ordained of God, shows His will
in this respect. The child's instinct leads it to
the mother with its first love, its first longings
for help or sympathy; and this bond should be
stronger as the years go on. But how often,
through thoughtlessness, is the love cooled, the
confidence repressed, the respect lessened! Mother,
mourning because your child does not trust you as
you wish, because  your hold is loosened when
temptations crowd and restraint is most needed,
look back! Do you find no fault in yourself?
Were you always at leisure to return your child's
caress, or did "much serving" make you forget
that a heart may go half starved while the body is
fed? In your anxiety to fashion comely garments
for your family, were you not slowly weaving a
mantle of reserve to shroud the yearning soul from
your sight? We know interesting girls and boys
to confide to the listening ear of a wise teacher
things of greatest moment, with the remark—"I
never could tell this to my mother; she never talks
to me as you do." Mothers, give heed to this
gentle hint. Study the natures of your children,
and treat them accordingly.
	Spiced Fruits.—To seven pounds of fruit add
three pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar and a
table-spoonful of various kinds of spice.
	Plum Cake.—One cup of sugar, one half cup
of butter, one of buttermilk, two of flour, one of
raisins; one egg, one teaspoonful soda. Cinnamon,
cloves and nutmeg to taste.
	Cup Cake.—One cup of butter, two cups of su-
gar, three cups of flour, four eggs, a little sour milk
and soda, or water soda and cream of tarter. This
is the best and most easily made of plain cakes.
	Tea Cake.—One cup of white sugar, half a cup
of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one egg, one-
half teaspoonful soda, one of cream of tartar, and
flour enough to make it like soft gingerbread.
Flavor with the juice of a small lemon. This
makes a good sized loaf.
	Farmer's Fruit Cake.—Cut two cups of sour
dried apples very fine, soak them over night in
cold water, add a cup of molasses, and stew until
thick; then add a cup of sugar, one of butter, one
of sour cream, two teaspoonfuls of soda, two eggs,
five cups of flour, and spice to taste.


Fritters.—Take young, sweet corn, pepper, salt,
nutmeg, and butter hot in the pan. Grate the
corn from the cobs into a basin, season and drop
by spoonfuls into a pan, and fry until brown.
This is a delicious breakfast relish, but requires
considerable time to prepare.
	Clothing Pins.—They should be boiled a few
moments and quickly dried once or twice a month,
when they become more flexible and durable.
Clothes lines will last longer and keep in better
order for wash-day service, if occasionally treated in
the same way.
	Cakes.—Superfine flour, sweet butter, fresh eggs,
and white sugar, are indispensable in making good
cake. The butter may sometimes be wholly or par-
tially omitted, and sweet lard or drippings, or cream
used in its stead. The flour must be sifted. An
earthen pan is best to mix it in, and a wooden
spoon or padle should be used for stirring. The
rule is to separate the yelks from the whites of the
eggs, beating up the former with the sugar, then
adding the butter, and only stirring in the whites,
well whisked, when all the other ingredients have
been added.


[For the EXPONENT
		“LOVE AT- HOME.”

	There is no picture half so charming as a
family bound together by the tenderest ties
of love. When gathered around the cheer-
ful fireside, peace pervades the circle, and it
seems as though heaven were there. The
happy, smiling faces tell more plainly than
words the joy that is felt; every member of
that family is willing to sacrifice his per-
sonal comforts for the happiness of the loved
ones. We see no cross looks, no angry frowns,
hear no cross words, nor anything else that
will mar their peace; and when bed time
comes they kneel in prayer and retire, with
heartfelt gratitude to their Heavenly Father,
How can such a family help being blessed!
If all the world looks coldly on them, they
are sure of sympathy at home, that more
than repays all.
	Let us look at the opposite picture. Here
you see the father so buried in thought that
he won’t answer a question that is asked by
his child, or if it is answered it is in such a
cross way that the little one dares not ask
another; the mother frets and scolds at the
children, and they quarrel with each other.
Such families, thank God, are scarce, among
the true Latter-day Saints, but there are
some such, even here. To be sure there is
love in every family, but judging from the
different influences manifested, there is
considerable more in some than in others.
How much better it is to follow in the foot-
steps of that great example of Love—the
Savior—which will bring happiness to us in
the darkest hour of trouble, than to fret
and find fault, and make ourselves disagree-
able. A young man who loves his home,
generally makes a good husband, but one
who loves every other place better, will sel-
dom break off his bachelor connections for
the society of his wife; and the consequence
is, she has the pleasure (?) of spending her
evenings alone. If true girls would take a
stand that they would not marry such men,
it might have a beneficial effect, in its way.
	RICHMOND.				P.A.M.


﻿“AUNT PHEBE,” in the “Rural New
Yorker,” attributes the cross looks and fret-
ful words of wives generally, to want of
sleep and rest. We believe with her, that
most working women, while rearing fami-
lies indulge in this, the best of all stimu-
lants, far too little. A quiet hour or even
half hour’s nap, would do them more good,
if possible to be obtained, than a dozen cups
of tea.


A LETTER.

TO THE YOUNG LADIES 0F THE 19TH WARD
	RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION.

			Meadowville, Dec. 7th, 1873.
My Dear Sisters:
	I rejoice to learn that you are again organ-
ized into a Retrenchment Association, and
sincerely hope you will duly appreciate the
many advantages and privileges deriving
therefrom. I can assure you the privilege,
of meeting with you every Thursday eve-
ning would be esteemed by me as a great
and invaluable blessing, but I can only com-
mune with you through the medium of my
pen, which I take pleasure in doing. If it
will have the desired effect of cheering and
encouraging you, my sisters, (for such I love
to call you,) I am indeed pleased to write.
	I pray God to assist you in your humble
endeavors to aid in establishing a reform
among the ladies of Utah. That there is
much need of a reform, ’tis needless to
state, as it is plain to all, either careful or
careless observers, that the present state of
extravagance in dress and daily habits,must
lead to fearful results. It so completely un-
fits woman for the useful sphere before her,
besides having an awful bearing on the fu-
ture generation. Where are the stalwart,
bright, intellectual men and women, which
our Country will so much need, to come
from? Surely the present state of affairs
will not tend to produce such. Woman has
got to step forward, free herself from the
hateful bonds of enslaving fashion, let her
true womanhood take its natural course, and
prepare herself for that important mission
for which she was created; viz., her glo-
rious part in peopling the world with noble-
minded men and women.
	Let us, dear girls, take pains to dress
neatly and tastefully, with an eye to com-
fort and a strict observance of cleanliness
and health, ever allowing our circumstances
to govern our purchases. It is in bad taste
to dress beyond our means; or endeavor to
make a display at the expense of father’s
hard earnings, or mother’s little household
comforts. Or if we have means earned by
our own industry, how foolish to invest it
all in fine dress, instead of something which
would be a constant source of pleasure
and benefit, such ns a useful book, or nice
and useful article of furniture with which
to adorn our homes and make life happy.
Then we should be unselfish and seek the
good of others.
	Let us be dignified, gentle,polite and wo-
manly in our daily conduct, ever maintain-
ing self-respect and independence as daugh-
ters of our Father who sent us here, to pre-
pare ourselves and assist others in preparing
for that grand future which we believe
awaits all who strive to win it.
	Let us carefully study and investigate the
glorious Gospel of Christ, and the wonder-
ful manner in which it was restored to the
earth; after which there will be no possibil-
ity of a doubt of the truth of it lingering,
in our minds. This is of the most vital
importance to us lest we in our thoughtless-
ness should be led astray. It would be far
better for us should our heads be severed
from our shoulders than that we should take
a course to sever ourselves from the Church
of our Lord and Savior. Let us devote more
time to reflection upon these important items,
and cease to be so childishly thoughtless.
	In conclusion I would say, seek and pray
for wisdom and use it. Be humble and ex-
emplary, court the approbation and society
of good and intelligent men and women.
Ever believe my heart is with you, and my
prayers are for you. 	LONA ELDREDGE.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			THAT BILL
	The perusal of the new Frelinghuysen Bill
has filled me with indignation; and being,
for the present at least,an American Citizen,
I take the liberty to express my opinion on
the subject.
	First, I would like to know how any man
dares to call himself a son and citizen of
this liberal Republic while advocating such
arbitrary measures. Not content, it seems,
with trammeling the free action of the Ter-
ritorial Legislature, he would even enslave
the future State by having it enacted by
Congress that “no laws shall hereafter be
passed conflicting with the provisions of this
Act.” One Act, at least, in the code of the
future State must remain immutable as the
laws of the Medes and Persians! Then this
Sovereign Slave, Deseret, may fold her arms
and content herself with observing the pro-
gress of Sister States in this direction until
lost to her view, and she left alone in her
chains.
	How pure and exalted is the friendship,
how tender and winning the sympathy
which this bill holds out to a large class of
virtuous and high-minded women in this
Territory!
	If they will repudiate the honorable name
of wife,and, by their own admissions, stamp
their children as illegitimate, they may
have—a suitable proportion of their hus-
band's property! How magnanimous the
offer! how charming the prospect!!
	Does Mr. Frelinghuysen, or any person of
sound mind, for one moment imagine that
there is money enough even represented by
the National Debt to buy from one of Utah’s
right-minded daughters her children’s birth-
right? her own proud sense of honor? or her
steadfast faith that she is walking in the
straight and narrow way which leads to life
everlasting? I fear he judges her by report
and not from personal acquaintance.
	Then, again can any unprejudiced person
call it just that we be deprived of our fran-
chise at the whim of interested or disinter-
ested politicians who make not even a pre-
tense of showing a reason for it? And that 
too, not only for a season, with the hope of
regaining, at some future day,the great loss,
but since “No Act shall hereafter be passed
&c.,” though all sister States might enfran-
chise their daughters, Utah might not do
the same.
	Although woman suffrage is here yet a
bold and unsupported fact, though no wo-
man has yet been called to serve on a jury
nor elected by vote to any civil office, I
doubt if Mr, Frelinghuysen himself, values
his vote more than I do mine, if I am a wo-
man; for I look upon it as the concession of
the government that daughters are human
as well as sons, and as a stepping stone to
all other privileges; so I maintain, not only
my inherent right to a voice in the laws I
must obey, but that the very least the“Pow-
ers that be” can do for us is to give us a fair
chance and plenty of time to prove whether
we are not at least as well qualified to make
good use of the ballot as a freedman or a
foreigner. Then as for the insinuation some
cast upon us that we dare not vote other-
wise than as our husbands dictate, or that
neither male nor female voters dare vote ex-
cept as the Church authorities think best,
I can say for the former that so far as my
information extends, there is not a shadow
of truth in it; and for the latter I have struck
off an objectionable name from the ticket
which most church members voted entire and
witnessed the numbering of it, without the
remotest idea that any disagreeable con-
sequences to myself would follow.
	It would be hard indeed, if after having

[Column 2]
tasted the sweets of liberty, we were to be
remanded to the level of idiots and felons.
And by the provisions of this most unre-
publican bill we are to be subjected to the
old common law which gives all a wife’s in-
herited property, earnings, children, person,
all but life itself to her husband’s absolute
control; thus in all save that one reservation,
setting her on a level with domestic ani-
mals. What have we done to merit such
overwhelming kindness as this?
	But, as I said in the beginning,I am only
surprised and indignant at the effort being
made, not alarmed about the result. we poor
Minor Children of the Union have too many
friends among those who have attained to
their majority, and Woman Suffrage and
equal rights as principles have too many
friends for such measures to be counten-
anced. God speed the day when not only
we, but all women may enjoy franchise and
all kindred privileges unquestioned.
							L.L.D.


WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT.
				—
  A few words to my young sisters—those
who have stepped forth, according to Presi-
dent Young's counsel, and formed themselves
in associations, to instruct the mind and
learn wisdom. It is a position dear young
ladies, that you will never repent having
taken. By honoring it, you will gain faith
in God, it will give you a knowledge of the
principles of the gospel, which is essential
above all other knowledge. We are prom-
ised, through obedience to the first princi-
ples of the gospel, our former sins shall be
remitted; by confirmation, or the laying on
of hands, that we shall receive the gift of the
Holy Ghost, which will witness to us by the
spirit that the latter-day work is true and of
God. These are great promises. I have been
led to marvel, in hearing a great many of
the youth, growing up in our midst, say
that they believed the gospel to be true but
could not say that they knew it to be so.
This has caused me to think “there is a lack
somewhere.” When I embraced the gospel,
I was in my thirteenth year, and at that ear-
ly age I received a testimony that was satis-
factory to me, that it was trne. I well re-
member being present at a testimony meet-
ing where I felt forcibly constrained to bear
testimony to the truth; I tried to argue with
myself, that I was too young to get up and
say anything—was only a little girl and
should not speak. But it was no use, I had
to get up and bear testimony that Joseph
Smith was a prophet of God, and so forth.
I tell you this to encourage you; if you have
not got a witness yourself, seek until you do
get one. Our Heavenly Father “is the same
yesterday, to-day and forever;” willing at
all times to bless and give gifts unto his chil-
dren. But the steps you have taken will in-
spire your minds—you will be filled with the
light of truth, and will not be ashamed of
the worship of God. In your youth you
have espoused a good cause, to co-operate
with your brethren and elder sisters in the
great latter-day work. And God will bless
you and crown your labors with success.
Your influence for good will be felt by your
companions—through the blessings of the
Lord you will form a nucleus for the young.
Sustain your Presidents by your faith and
prayers, that although young in years and
experience; they may be inspired with
wisdom and knowledge. and have power to
impart it; that you may have joy in meet-
ing together. Be true to each other, speak
slightingly of no one, but, build each other
up; cultivate the love of the gospel which
is stronger than kindred ties; be chaste in


speech; set wise examples; be pure in
thoughts, words and deeds. There is a great
work devolving on each one of us; the Lat-
ter-day Dispensation has been ushered in,
therefore let us work while it is day, for it
will take all our energies combined in the
right source, to prepare us for what Presi-
dent Heber C. Kimball termed “vessels of
honor.” My prayer is that your influence
may be felt at home and abroad; the gentle
chiding of a sister or a lady friend has many
times had great effect with the opposite sex;
therefore improve every talent given you,
that you may become true women in every
sense of the word. 	   JANE S. COLEMAN.
	SMITHFIELD.


﻿MISS ADELINE Trafton, the author of a
novel now running in Scribner’s Monthly, is
the daughter of Rev. Mark Trafton, a Metho-
dist clergyman of Boston.


HUMOROUS.

	A “CHEST protector.”—A good padlock.

	THE MOST steadfast followers of our for-
tunes.—Our creditors.

	WHEN YOU have reached your bottom dol-
lar, let it alone.

	WHY ARE clergymen like brakeman?
Because they do a good deal of coupling.

	A DETROIT picture dealer says the hard-
est work he has had to do is to frame excuses.

	SPINER THINKS some of the fashionable
church singing is done upon the high-drawl-
ic principle. 

	"ARE OYSTERS healthy?" asked an old
lady of her physician. "I never heard any
of them complain of being unwell," was the
reply.
	
	JUDGE HOAR once said of a lawyer: "He
has reached the superlative life; at first he
sought to get on, and then he sought to get
honor, and now he is trying to get honest."

	AN EDITOR wrote: "We have received a
basket of strawberries from Mr. Smith, for
which he will receive our compliments, some
of which are four inches in circumference."

	AN EDITOR out West became martial, and
was made a captain. On parade, instead of
"two paces in front—advance,” he uncon-
sciously exclaimed, “cash—two dollars a
year in advance."

	WHILE MR. Bean of Hallowell was cross-
ing the railway track, his sleigh was struck
by a train and stove into kindling wood.
As many times as kindling wood has gone
into stoves, this is the first recorded instance
of a stove into kindling wood.

	A DETROIT boy stood an umbrella, with a
cord tied to it, in a public door-way. Elev-
en persons thought that umbrella was theirs,
and carried it with them the length of the
string. They then suddenly dropped it and
went off without once looking back or stop-
ping to pick it up again.

	SHERIDAN WAS much annoyed in the
House of Commons by a member who kept
constantly crying, "Hear! hear! The witty
orator described a fellow who wanted to play
rogue, but had only sense enough to play
fool, and exclaimed with great emphasis,
"Where shall we find a more foolish knave,
or a more knavish fool than he?" "Hear,
hear!,' shouted the troublesome member.
Sheridan turned round, and thanking him
for the prompt information, sat down amid
a general roar of laughter.


W O M A N ’ S  E X P O N E N T .


     AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.
				   ––––
			      AGENTS.
			   Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
  "	Margt. P. Young,	 "	Amanda Kimball
  "	Lily Staines,		  "	Elizabeth Davis,
  "	Sarah Smith, 		  "	Hampton, 16th
  "	Mary J. Thomson,	  			Ward,
  "	Margaret Steel,	  "	Sarah E. Smith,
		     Miss Sarah E. Russell.
		    CORRESPONDENTS.
Mrs. Laura Miner,		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
  "	A. B. Smith,		Miss Mary  E. Cook.
			       AGENTS,
			   Weber County,
  "	A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
		     Oneida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	  "	Mary Rich, Paris.
			      Rich County
	  "	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek,
	  "	Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
			     Cache County.
	  "	M. A. Maughan,  Logan,
	  "	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
	  "	H. A. Shaw, Hyrum.
			  Box Elder County.
	  "	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			     Davis County.
	  "	Mary Clark, Farmington,
	  "	Aurelia Rogers,     "
	  "	Margaret Randell, Centreville,
	  "	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	  "	Susan Grant,		     "
	  "	Sylvia Clark,		     "
			   Salt Lake County.
	  "	–––– Higgins, West Jordan,
	  "	Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot-
			tonwood.
			     Tooele County.
	Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
	Mrs. E. Clegg,			"	"
	Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
			       Utah County.
	  "	–––– Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	  "	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	  "	–––– Harrison,		   "
	  "	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
			       Juab County.
	  "	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
	  "	Ann Pitchforth,		"
	  "	Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
	  "	Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
			     Sanpete County.
	  "	M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
			City,
	  "	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
	  "	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
	Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
	Mrs. Mary Thorpe,		"
			     Millard County.
	  "	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
	  "	Belinda M. Pratt,	"
	Miss Mary Callister,	"
			     Beaver County.
	Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
	  "	L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
			       Iron County.
	  "	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
	Miss Josephine Smith,	"
	Mrs. Ellen Lunt, Cedar City.
			    Kane County.
	Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
	  "	Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
			Cedar City.
			 Washington County.
	  "	Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
			St. George,
	  "	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.
	Mrs. Mary Confield, Hamlin's Fort.


REPUTATION ONE THING—CHARACTER
			     ANOTHER.

	Reputation is what a person is accounted to be
by others: character consists in what he really is.
	A great many defalcations have come to light
lately in private business houses and in public in-
stitutions. The defaulters in every instance are
spoken of as persons in high standing. Of course
they necessarily must have been such. or they would
not have been entrusted with such large amounts of
money. Beggars, paupers and vagabonds have no
opportunity to become heavy defaulters, On the
contrary, defaulters are men of comely exterior
lives; men who dress decently well; who attend
church; who maintain a good out-side show in
their way of living. They enjoy a fair reputation.
	Yet how different from all these appearances is
their real character! When they look at themselves
they behold a sight quite unlike what they seem to
be in the eyes of the community.
	A character which cannot sternly stand the test
of strict and searching self-examination is not a
good character. If young men begin life with the
daily habit of reviewing their own conduct, and reso-
lutely changing it whenever it fails to square with
the strictest standard of distinguishing between
right and wrong, they will never become defaulters.
They will prove equal to any trust which may be
reposed in them; because they will be guided by a
compass equally well adapted to smooth seas or
rough, and which, under all circumstances, points
toward a sure and safe harbor.—Selected.

		   BABIES AT VIENNA.

	A correspondent writing of the childrens’
department at the Vienna Exposition, says,
“As to the Vienna pavilion, though most of
the contents are the veriest playthings, many
of them answering to no purpose in the best
of hands, yet it is not altogether uninterest-
ing. The most interesting half-sixed mo-
dels in plaster are stationed about the room.
Eight or ten of these illustrate the style in
which women of different nations carry their
babies. The Asiatic Indian woman carries
hers in a blanket hanging in front somewhat
below the waist; the Bengalese woman with
the child astride low down upon her left hip,
and her left arm supporting its back. The
figure seems quite indifferent as to the dif-
ficulties in this way of carrying,which must
be a highly artistic performance if done so
cleverly in reality. The Egyptian woman
carries hers in a stately manner, the child
sitting astride her shoulder with its hands
upon her head, and without any clothing to
speak of. The Brazilian woman carries hers
in a somewhat similiar manner, also in full
undress, it sitting astride her neck. The
Chinese baby is carried upright upon the
back, in a blanket, and the South African in
a bag in front, formed by a blanket about
the hips of the mother. The Lower Aus-
trian woman carries hers by swinging it in
a blanket over one shoulder upon her back,
while the Northern Austrian carries hers
bound upon a board, after the style of can-
dy models in confectionery stores. The Lap-
land baby is carried in a sledge-shaped cot
made of leather. It seems to have been
chucked in, feet foremost, and then a frame
tied over the opening for its face, whether
to prevent it from crawling out or to keep
the dogs from kissing it, is more than can
be imagined. The Esquimaux woman,who
wears wide, high-top boots, and puts the
baby right end foremost, down in the out-
side of one of them, and doubtless, accord-
ing to Dr. Kane's description of her style,
carrying her cooking and heating utensils
in the other. The North American woman
carries her papoose strapped to a board, and
that strapped upon her back by a band over
the forehead.


﻿QUEEN VICTORIA, an English Jenkins
says, has a cask of fresh sea water sent dai-
ly to London, for her morning bath, during
her residence in that city.


TEN YOUNG women made the Harlem Riv-
er at New York lively on Saturday, by a
swimming match. The prize was a silk
dress, valued at $175, and the distance a
mile. Miss Delilah Goboess of Philadelphia,
proved the winner, swimming the mile in
40 minutes. Miss Maggie Colton of Boston,
came in second. Miss Mollie Denan of Ire-
land led for some distance, but nobly resign-
ed her chance of winning,to rescue a young
man who had fallen into the water. The
spectators raised a purse to buy Miss Denan
a gold watch, as a reward for her bravery.


MRS. H.K. PAINTER, M.D.

		ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN
	Electricity administered when cases require. 
Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a half
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City. 

MARY H. BARKER, M.D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a.m. to 3 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,

		Physician and Surgeon.
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by 

		H. DINWOODEY

	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.

H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake City. Just the Place for ladies
to purchase.

			NEW CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the 
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:

10 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter 
	up of the club 	-	-	-	-	$ 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter 
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter 
	up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
	steel engraving of President Brigham 
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


Woman's Exponent.
