[Vol24 | April 1937 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Editorial | Title: The Fussy Individual]

The Fussy Individual

WE presume no one has escaped the distress caused by a fussy individual "one who makes unnecessary ado about trifles."

Know a woman who almost always when she comes into a room where a group of her friends are, says it is either too hot or too cold, there isn't enough air or there is a draft, there is too much light or too little, so when she arrives there is a feeling of expectancy. Her friends wonder what she will want to have done first. A group may have been happily considering problems, but when she arrives, they are disturbed by the lowering and raising of windows and blinds.

Fussiness grows rapidly in one who does not nip it in the bud. How terrible a thing it is to let it grow upon one until he becomes what Arnold Bennett calls "the complete fusser" may be gleaned from the following: Mr. Bennett says, "The complete fusser has slowly convinced himself that the proper fulfillment of his destiny depends absolutely upon about 10,000 different things and he attaches a supreme and quite vital importance to all 10,000 of them." Mr. Bennett thinks even this individual, though, has a use, as he may serve as a "terrible warning to pull up."

It is a terrible thing to have a disease that has no cure. Mr. Bennett says, "There is no cure for the complete fusser, because he is unconscious of being fussy. What the world regards as fussiness he regards as wisdom essential to a reasonable existence. He sincerely looks down upon the rest of mankind. Spiritual pride puts him into the category of the hopeless case—along with the alcoholic, the kleptomaniac, and other specimens whom he would chillingly despise."

Fortunately few became "complete fussers." The thing to do is nip the thing in the bud. Examine yourself carefully. When you go to a table do you spoil the meal of all who sit around it by your fussiness, loudly proclaiming that you can't eat this, that you can't eat that, that this is not good for one and that is very injurious. Many a hostess has had a delightful dinner or luncheon spoiled by such people. If there are certain foods that you can't eat, say nothing about it and eat those you can.

Are you so fussy about some little defect that you fail to enjoy the whole? If your introspection reveals that you are peculiar, lose no time in overcoming your peculiarities, for a fussy individual can destroy the peace, happiness and well-being of any group.