[Vol24 | April 1937 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Vivian Redd Cannon]

Unmarried as he made this first trip to Bluff, he returned to Iron County, where he married Lucinda Pace and with her, again made his way to Bluff. VIVIAN REDD McCONKIE, one of the latest additions to the Relief Society General Board, is the daughter of Mr. And Mrs. J. M. Redd. As a daughter of these brave, courageous pioneers, she is a worthy representative. I feel confident that even as her people unhesitatingly met their call in one of the greatest pioneer ventures on record RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE so she would meet such a call were it necessary today. She was born in Bluff, Oct. 13, 1889, the third child in a family of nine. Her parents were real home makers, intelligent, generous, and industrious. The impelling force in the lives of these people was the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The importance of education was not lost sight of.
Vivian went to school in Bluff until she had finished the seventh grade.
Many miles away, in Bear Lake, Idaho, her schooling continued. Her higher education was had at the University of Utah and at the Agricultural College at Logan.
While attending the University of Utah she became captain of the first girl's basketball team of the university. The most important event in connection with her Agricultural College experiences was the meeting of Oscar W. McConkie, whom she later married, and who is now Judge McConkie. ETWEEN her college days and her marriage she taught school for two years in Monticello, her family having gone there to live. In 1913 she and Oscar McConkie were married in the Salt Lake Temple.
Three years were spent at Ann Arbor, Michigan, where Brother McConkie attended law school. For one year she studied speech at the University of Michigan.
Returning to Utah they lived for ten years in Monticello where Brother McConkie practiced law. In 1926 they took up their residence in Salt Lake City, having been members of the Twentieth Ward ever since. "THROUGHOUT her life Vivian has been a devoted church worker. In San Juan she served as Relief Society counselor in the ward four years; as stake secretary to her mother who was Stake President of Relief VIVIAN REDD McCONKIE Society, and ten years as first counselor to the Stake President of the Mutual Improvement Association, as well as divers other positions of trust and responsibility.
Since coming to Salt Lake City, she served for three years as president of the Twentieth Ward Mutual, and almost eight years as Relief Society president.
Undoubtedly her latest call to service has come because of her fine understanding of and her accomplishments in Relief Society undertakings. She truly has been "the servant of all." She is a woman of action, rather than of words. She is dependable.
There is no place for laziness or triviality in her life.. She does find time however for worth-while activities outside the routine of home and church. In connection with Relief Society activities, she is a regular attendant at the L. D. S. Gym and has become an efficient swimmer.
Possessing a calmness of nature, she seems to do things with very little effort.
Accepting life and all it offers as a privilege, she meets even the hardest tasks cheerfully. Her time and talents are given so unselfishly. She is a worthy daughter of worthy parents.
With a noble husband and six lovely children she enjoys the blessings of a happy home.
These children are following in the footsteps of their parents. A GREATER insight and under- 6 standing of this family came to me as a result of a visit with them several years ago, when they were spending the summer in Monticello. Had but one member of my family been invited to spend two weeks in Monticello, I should have considered the invitation most generous, but when five of us were invited I was perfectly overwhelmed. By telling something of the experiences we enjoyed on this trip, it may give you a 203 greater insight into the nature of Vivian McConkie and her people.
Near the Blue Mountains—Monticello is considerably higher than the great stretches of sparsely populated country round about.
Even in the midst of summer, the nights are very cool and the days pleasant.
Flowers grow beautifully there, and when I think of Monticello I think of flowers.
Sweet peas are especially beautiful in that climate, so large and very fragrant.
Fresh sweet peas we enjoyed in our room during our entire stay.
With over a dozen people to plan meals for each day, I discovered what an excellent manager our hostess was, also what a good cook.
Things were done quietly with no friction. It all seemed so easy, although I realized that a great responsibility was being shouldered.. Our vacation included a camping trip for several days in the Blue Mountains, with the McConkies and some of their friends. A trip to the great Natural Bridges followed,—a never-to-be-forgotten experience, — the memory of which I shall always treasure. We were invited into the homes of relatives and friends of these people.
Their sincerity and genuine hospitality touched my heart.
When the time came to say goodbye we felt as though we were tearing away from those we had known always. For miles as we drove along the highway, homeward bound, the silence was not broken. Our hearts were too full to give utterance. The trip had definitely done something to me. I am better for having had it.
With gratitude in my being I shall always feel indebted to these people.