[Vol24 | April 1937 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Little Moments of Hoggan]
May thy highest notes and thy holiest By the crystal sea, become Divine, Ui = DoramsrlerWiihams — "yea Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? PRAYER Take Time For Spiritual Blessings By Lella Marler Hoggan "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, unuttered or expressed." —Montgomery. AEN fragrant odors from the \ \ first spring blossoms come drifting in through the open windows, and curtains are lightly stirred by soft breezes, the heart is filled with grateful joy. New life bursting forth from what was but yesterday a gray, cold world, is symbolic of life everlasting which has come forth from the silent tomb of the past. We think of the shepherds in the quiet fields of Bethlehem as they listened in awed wonder to the glad song of the ages. We remember how the Master walked and talked with men, and how they followed him through the streets and down to the sea, listening to his every word, his message of peace and of love and of hope eternal., We, too, stand in awed wonder when we think of how his joyous message was rejected and how he was crucified by the very world that he had come to save. And then, how the miracle of prophetic promise was wrought.
Never were hearts lifted up in greater gladness than were the sorrowing ij hearts of His beloved disciples, when He walked forth from the dark tomb in triumphant glory. They, too, would live again. They, too, would go on eternally—they and their LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY children after them, and all mankind, down through the countless ages. 'THAT heritage of eternal truth, of life everlasting, has come down to you and to me. In the long years of its coming it has not lost any of its beauty or its glory. Do we accept it in its fullness? Are we ready to follow in the path of light that it spreads from our hearts to the harbor of our dreams? The magic key that will open the door to all of its blessings is in our keeping. It is an ancient key, the same one that has been used through the centuries; the first and the most important of all of the keys of the Kingdom of Life. It is the Key of Prayer.
Through its use we may enter into communion with the Most High, and receive help and comfort and strength according to our needs. COMMUNION with the Divine is a high privilege. It implies understanding and cooperation. It is more than a mere request to have our needs supplied, have special favors granted. Is it not possible for us to establish a high fellowship, a divine friendship with our Maker, that we may share with Him our joys and our triumphs as well as our sorrows and our misfortunes?
Have we not risen some mornings toa world so running over with gladness that we wanted to pour out our souls in gratitude to the kind Providence that had showered us with such a fullness of happiness?
Some blessings are so perfect and so beautiful that they become a ceremonial of joy, a glad rapture, for which we are unable to express our appreciation except in prayer.
Sometimes a sorrow comes to us so devastating that it seems to strip life of all its beauty and loveliness. 211 We feel that the very foundation of our existence is crumbling under our feet.
Such sorrow finds only one source of comfort.
Only the Master knows how to heal a broken heart. He can lift us out of the thick, black night of sorrow or sin or humiliation. He can put our feet back on the path of life and give us courage to go forward and meet any emergency that awaits us. UT we must do our part. If we wait until our need is upon us, and then come running in haste for the blessings we desire, we are sometimes unprepared to receive it.
Where a person plans and studies and struggles over a long period of time to accomplish some worthy desire, his very effort is a perpetual prayer. He is ready for the blessing, and what has been going on through the years stands as a silent testimony of his worthiness. He has already opened up the way for the fulfillment of his dream.
There are times when frequent prayer is not only a comfort but a necessity to some persons. WHEN my children were little," confided a gentle old lady, "I felt the need of guidance at every turn. It was then that I formed the habit of offering little silent prayers as I went about my work. I think most mothers form such a habit. It seems like we need wisdom and patience and courage every hour of the day. I know exactly what the Master meant when he said we should 'pray always.' I used to feel that a guiding influence was right at my side, companion like, lending a helping hand in all of the numberless joys and trials of the day." She was silent for awhile and then she continued, reminiscently, "There was a quiet sheitered nook just off 212 the path, down near the spring, where I used to go to pray every morning in the summer. To me it was as hallowed as a sacred prayer room. When I entered into the silence and the beauty of that little place, my cares and worries all slipped from my shoulders like an old cloak. I felt that I was in the very presence of the Divine.
That quiet little moment of prayer in the morning seemed to fortify me against every emergency. I knew that a kind watch care would be over me all through the day. Yes, the comforting influence of an unseen presence has carried me over the river of pain and sorrow many times." She smiled sweetly. She had found the "peace that passeth understanding." O we deliberately plan for moments of devotion? Do we find holds? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE time for spiritual blessings, for the fulfillment of our high hopes? N° lovely thing in life comes cheap. We have to pay for heaven as we go. We can't suppress the spiritual influences through the years and then expect the portals to swing wide at our approach. Why not open our eyes to a little of each day's effulgence? Not walk right through the eternal glories blindfolded.
Have we learned to listen to the singing melodies of life? To glimpse the radiant gladness that each day The choicest blessings that any heart can harbor are in the offing. Are we going to find time for them?
Stripped of the sheen of ideality, the glory of divinity, what is life? Truly, "white hyacinths for the soul" are as essential as daily food and shelter. Aero — THE GATHERING By Theodore E. Curtis Lift up thy gates, O Zion!
From afar Thy children come rejoicing as of old. Thy light rekindles, like a guiding star, To light them from the darkness to the fold. In thee all racial prejudice shall cease; In thee the hearts of many nations blend; Thine is the fountain of eternal peace Where Israel's troubled pilgrimage shall end. Thy light is like a flaming diadem, And many lands have turned their hearts to thee. To Zion, and to old Jerusalem, They come like rivers rolling to the sea.
