[Vol24 | April 1937 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Agnes Just]

By Agnes Just Reid
"DADDY, do you know that our little girl is smoking cigarettes?"
There was an exercise of throat clearing, much rattling of a newspaper, then with a calmness that was not altogether convincing: "Well, yes, I have suspected it for some time." "Don't you care?" "Care? Of course I care. I haven't thought of anything else for weeks," "Why have you never mentioned it to me?" "Many times I have failed to mention such things to you, Margaret; you are so unreasonable. I remember that you cried until you were hysterical when you first heard that the Barret girl was smoking and she was only the daughter of a friend. I supposed when you heard this it would so upset you that it would make you ill. I felt I could not be the one to tell you." "Didn't you think I'd find out sometime? "Yes, I knew you were bound to find out sometime. It is only because of your complete trust that you have not found it out before. Her fingers show it. I've been trying to find a different job for her. The girls, where she is working now, all smoke and I suppose they were always reminding her that she could not do it because of her religion. I hoped if she got back with the kind of girls she went through school with, she would be as ashamed to smoke as she is ashamed to not smoke where she is.
Loraine has always been too much inclined to follow the crowd." "Oh, Frank, I know that is true. Her favorite saying has always been "When in Rome, do as Rome does.' I never wanted her to work in that terrible office. I hate everything about it.
What a failure I have been as a mother! "No, no," Frank assured, putting his arm around her. "It has been the hope of my life, from the time I heard her first cry, that she would go on a mission. I can't ever hold my head up again. I am disgraced in the sight of God and my friends," "There, there, Margaret, don't feel so bad about it.
Lots of girls smoke.
There are really worse things than smoking." "Yes, I know there are worse things than smoking but if every girl in the world smoked, the fact that our girl does would still be the same shock to me. God has entrusted her to you and to me. If she has disregarded the teachings of the Church and of our home, we have failed Him." "Oh, my darling, I'd hardly say that.
Loraine is a fine girl.
Yesterday you would have been incensed if anyone would suggest that she is not perfect. She is still the same girl. She does not think smoking is wrong when so many other girls do it." "Doesn't she? Well, then why did she try to keep me from knowing it?" "That is just because she knows what a fuss you will make about it." "No, I will not make a fuss about it. It is a hurt too deep for words. I dread to talk to her about it, but down deep in my heart I shall always know that something of her purity has been polluted. She has followed the crowd instead of her conscience.
Something of the trust that I have felt in her all these twenty-five years of her life has been destroyed. I can never feel sure of her again. Always I shall be asking myself: 'When it comes to drinking will she follow the crowd?
When it comes to breaking all of the commandments, will she follow the crowd? Has she lost the power to say no?"
Margaret was sobbing hopelessly. "Oh, don't say that, sweetheart. She does not know how hard you are taking it. She should understand how you feel." "Who should understand how she feels?"
Said a young voice behind them.
Loraine had slipped in quietly thinking they were in bed. Her mother lifted a pitiful tear stained face from her father's shoulder. "What is it, Mommie dear, has someone been mean to you? "Yes, life has." "Life, mother? I do not understand. You are always so filled with the joy of life." "Until tonight, yes, but the joy has gone from it." She was sobbing again.
Loraine thoroughly concerned, turned to her father. "Tell me what is the matter? Who has hurt my mother this way?" "You have." "I have?
What have I done?" "Shall I tell you, or can you guess?"
Something in her father's searching look carried the thought to her and the color left her face. "Who told you mother?" She asked in a strained voice. "No one told her. She just knows and it is breaking her heart." "Oh, my darling, sweet mother. God forgive me for ever bringing sorrow to you. I thought you'd never know. Why was I ever such an idiot?" Her father reached out his free hand and pulled her down beside them on the couch. "Loraine," he said, "there is a new job waiting for you with Arms and Jenkins. You'll be back with Peggy and Jean, the best friends you ever had. You can go to work there tomorrow. Don't you think for your mother's sake, for my sake, you can leave all of your mistakes of yesterday back at the old office and begin anew?"
There was a long silence during which his two best loved clung to him and sobbed, then with her wet cheek against his, Loraine whispered: "God helping me, I will," and her mother leaned over and kissed her trustingly.
REJUVENATION