[Vol24 | April 1937 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Dorothy Clapp]

By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
"The great thing in life is not where we are but in what direction we are moving."— O. W. Holmes.
In recounting pioneer experiences, particularly those that brought culture and refinement into desolation and poverty, we are inclined to think of women only as having made supreme effort. The story of how Ephraim, Utah, secured a library is the story of a man and the growth of his idea. Fort Ephraim was, undoubtedly, like other frontier towns in eighteen hundred seventy-three and four. It was a long way from centers of learning. A long way even from its parent city, Salt Lake City. But where it was mattered little for it was moving in the right direction, and the direction was toward greater cultural opportunities. It came about in this way:
EPHRAIM had the same problem that all towns, modern or frontier, have to face, that of what to do with their idle young people. Unlike some towns Ephraim had a man who recognized the situation and set about to remedy it. That man was A. C. Neilson, a returned missionary, and undoubtedly a man who loved and understood youth. About him he gathered the boys of the town from fifteen to twenty years of age. Like most frontier towns it was a composite group but being Ephraim it would have a more than average number of Scandinavians. It was in November, 1874, that Mr. Neilson organized the boys into a study group. They studied theology mostly, for there was small chance to study anything else. The class met in a building known as the South Ward School House. It stood where the Folmer Bertleson store now stands. The boys studied hard all winter but when spring came they were ready for action. What was there in this outpost of civilization that boys could do that they liked and still make money? A committee was appointed and after looking into various probabilities decided to burn lime. That was something everyone needed and something they could do. A scouting party was sent out and they found just the right place at the mouth of the canyon back of Ephraim. There they could get wood, pine and cedar, to burn and plenty of blue lime rock to be burned. They could have gone back and forth from home but that wouldn't have been nearly as much fun as camping out. So in a protected cove in the canyon they built camp. Under Mr. Neilson's direction a kiln was built. While some of the boys worked on it others hauled wood and rock. It took about four weeks to complete the kiln and burn the rock. Then it had to stand another two weeks to cool before it could be taken out and sold. There was no question about market for in those days everyone used lime. They used it to disinfect wheat for smut, to spray trees, to whitewash their houses and for numerous other things where a disinfectant was needed. During the six weeks the lime was in the making the evenings were spent in study and recreation. Their wise leader saw to it that they had something to take up their time and energy. The lime when taken out was in white powder form as the commercial product is known today. That was their beginning. With the money earned from the lime they broke up twenty acres of land and seeded it to wheat. This land had been homesteaded by A. C. Neilson and was given by him to the boys for their venture. They did so well with it they bought a threshing machine and called it the Young Men's Threshing Machine. They ran it for ten years. At that time Sanpete was known as the granary of Utah, producing as much as 250,000 bushels of wheat a year. So there was plenty of work for their machine and their profits grew.
IT was in 1874, too, when they began work on their library. When the money for the lime began to come in they spent some of it for room rent and put what books they had in it for the public to use. They canvassed the town for donations. Something to read, that was their big cry. Some two or three hundred books were donated. Beyond a doubt most of them were serious in tone for people did not carry trash that long thousand miles across the plains. Human energy was too precious and then trashy books had not yet seen their heyday. Yet in packing for the West many book lovers had tucked away volumes that were invaluable to them. To add to the donated books the boys bought reference works. Now Mr. Neilson's idea had really begun its growth. They had a library. From the first it was a success. In 1882 the group sold their land for about thirty dollars an acre and the profits were used for the library. The City Council pleased with the splendid effort, took over the project and provided more room and means. By this time the Y. M. M. I. A. Organization had reached Ephraim. When the city council took over the responsibility for the library they chose C. R. Dorius to direct the work. Mr. Dorius had been one of Mr. Neilson's boys and taken part in the project from its inception. At the time he was chosen for the library work he was President of the Mutual organization, Under his direction the work grew in extent and power. In 1912, largely through the work of A. W. Jensen, an attorney of Ephraim, a sum of $10,000 was secured from the Carnegie Foundation toward the erection of a building. P. D. Jensen was mayor and through his leadership and enthusiasm the building was started the next spring. It was completed in 1914. Since then it has made even greater strides than its founders dreamed of. It has today nearly eight thousand books, three newspapers and fifty-two periodicals. It has nearly twenty-five hundred borrowers who have cards. It averages a loan of 1098 books a day. Mr. Dorius is still with it as President of the Board. There is no way of computing the good Mr. Neilson has done by putting an idea into action but it is comforting to know that at least one man who was with it in the beginning has lived to see its fulfillment.
LESSONS