[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: UTAH DELEGATES. | Author: Unknown]

UTAH DELEGATES.
	The people of Utah who are interested in its 
true welfare and especially those who believe in 
woman suffrage and equal political rights will be
gratified to know that Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball
had an excellent opportunity afforded her as the 
official representative of the Utah W. S. A. to
make a report of the organized Association in this
Territory. The following is her speech as given
in the Woman's Tribune, Washington D. C.
March 9, 1890.—Ed.
				UTAH.
	Mrs. President and members of the 
Convention: The National Woman Suffrage
Association of Salt Lake City, Utah, held their
annual meeting for the election of officers for the
ensuing year on Saturday, January 11th 1890, at 
which time—
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball was elected president.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards, first vice-president.
	Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, second vice-president.
	Mrs. Caroline E. Dye, third vice-president.
	Miss Rachel Edwards, secretary.
	Mrs. Julia C. Taylor, corresponding secretary.
	Miss Margie Dwyer, treasurer.
	Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie, chairman executive Committee.
	Our Association has three hundred paid up en-
rolled members, exclusive of sixteen branch or-
ganizations in other parts of the Territory. As
results of our meetings, we fully realize that edu-
cation, agitation and united effort are chief factors
in woman's political advancement. We are en-
deavoring to promote interest in the systematic
study of the science of government, and most
gratifying results have followed this course.


There are, in the various cities, towns and vil-
lages throughout the Territory, many able and de-
voted women who earnestly labor for the politi-
cal, moral, and intellectual advancement of wo-
man. Mrs. Mary J. Tanner, president of the
Utah County Branch, died on the 8th of January
last. In her our cause has lost an efficient officer
and a faithful friend. After having exercised the
elective franchise for seventeen years, we deeply feel
the degradation to which we have been subjected
in being deprived of a direct voice in the Gov-
ernment to which we are subject, and of being
relegated to the position of those who suffer under
the principle of “taxation without representation."
We have an institution in our Territory known as
the Deseret University, which admits male and
female students; the management of which, since
its organization, has been in the hands of a
Board of Regents composed entirely of men. We
have deemed it proper and right to have repre-
sentation on that board and, for that purpose, will
petition the Territorial Legislature, which is now
in session, to give us at least two women as mem-
bers of the Board of Regents. Experience has
taught us that a woman armed with the ballot is
endowed with more self-respect and commands
more respectful deference and considerate atten-
tion from men than she can ever claim under her
present servile conditions. With these thoughts
before us, we feel it incumbent upon us to renew
our endeavors to secure that right of suffrage to
which all women are entitled, and we shall not
cease to importune the powers that be, until the
political shackles are stricken from womankind.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RAMBLING THOUGHTS.
	To guard well all God-given gifts and blessings
is the duty of the Saints.  I often think are we on
the watch-tower or in the basement?  there is so
much at the present time to look out for. 
	We have been made partakers of the good
word and of the Spirit of God, each Saint being
baptized and receiving a knowledge for himself
or herself that the Holy Ghost bears witness that
the gifts and blessings which adorned the Church
in our Savior's day are again restored to the
earth, and have so much light that the Priests of
the earth say "Come let us blow out the candle of
the Lord that has been set to burn in these
mountains," and would light the true path of
peace and happiness.
	"By their works ye shall know them," what
have been the words and the works of the Saints?
O, all ye inhabitants of the earth cease to sin and
love God; He is so good and kind, merciful, and
long suffering, "therefore are we not consumed."
The Presidents of these United States one after
another look gravely on, take their oaths, and
their seats, to be just in administering the law in
this grand Republic which the Saints have ever
honored and never by oaths' or any other means
have sought to be anything except a sacred por-
tion of this great commonwealth.  We know God
has sent a true Prophet again to the earth, who
has left a record indelible, by staining the soil of
free America brought about through religious
persecution.  He gave good advice even to this
nation, in one instance he said "it would be best
to purchase the slaves and colonize them thus
saving life and treasure;" if we could turn back
the wheels of time the nation might make repairs,
but it is not possible now, and thus it will be again
in regard to the treatment of this people.
	We work for the dead and they are benefited
thereby, it being legally done according to the
order of lineage and of priesthood and no one is
hurt on the earth, but love and kindness is mani-
fested for all the living and the dead.
	Let me a grand-daughter of a Revolutionary
soldier speak to the Honorable President of the
nation and all its lawmakers in behalf of truth, 
how would it be received?  with indifference per

[Column 2]
haps scorn.  The time will come to these great
statesmen when they will wish they had dealt
differently with the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.  Come and look upon our
works with unbiased minds!
	This government would not have been left to
grasp the saints justly earned means, that would
have done much good used in its legitimate way, 
but the poor eagle had its political talons severed
years ago, and sent out to grasp every position of
trust in Utah, the Post Office among the first; the
talons have grown and finally the Edmund's law
raised the lever and with unconstitutional frauds
smote off the eagle's head, and all restraint is
gone.  Jury's only such in name, not one that
dare express a sentence kindly to this people can
be obtained.  Where is Justice?  Men are sent-
enced when arrested as one of the lawyers said,
"We would convict Jesus by our juries if He were
here," so they could, but our Savior though cruci-
fied by wicked men rose again, and as Mary and
Martha both were searching for Him, Jesus the
beloved son appeared to them and bade them go
and tell His disciples He had risen.  This was
spiritual and temporal, a risen Savior and mortal
women. 
	Though ex-Gov. West has said God has no
telegraph to earth now, while Lawyer Baskin
remarked, no man that believes in God is fit for
an American citizen; these are the kind of men
who would rob God of His right to rule the
elements.
	When I see such men set aside every principle
of truth and virtue, not recognizing this people,
and deliberately confiscate the rights of the gov-
erned by fraud,after confiscating Church property
through religious persecution set afloat by Priests
and political traitors, if the American eagle had
a head he would close his eyes and ears too,
could he look upon the state of things in Utah:
sound in spirit, true in integrity, brave in danger, 
good to all men and women, throughout the whole
world, such are this people.  How can men think 
to deceive God?  Can they not pause and con-
sider that these are sacred rights that have been 
sacrificed by this government?
	O, how sad would it be, if war again should
desolate our fair land America.  To all Christian 
sects the grand chain of rights is marred, but the
world says "How so you Mormons, Mormon
homes are so impure?  Just come and see, don't 
be cats-paws, or men and women who have
jaundice.  Did you ever see clubs thrown at a
tree with poor apples?
	Our homes are erected and created with pure
motives, a hereafter our guiding star.
	Love of virtue is characteristic of the Saints, 
prosperity has attended our labors, and purer,
brighter children I do not believe any community
can or has produced on earth than are born in
this Church; no slums of sin, no houses of infamy,
no disposition for destroying life, look truthfully
upon us; instead of a loathsome cancer or ulcer
as we have been called by leading men, even down 
to the most vile; we are a living pattern of good
order, loving, pure  homes, loyal citizens, indus-
trious, cleanly, never intruding upon our neigh-
bors, proclaiming to all men that Christ is again
coming to earth, not a babe but as a loving Father 
warning His children that He is the legal
sovereign of the earth, kind to all who will ac-
knowledge Him, merciful to those to whom no
law has been given, to them can be no transgres-
sion.  I know the past and the faithful integrity
of this Church since the year 1835, and what it
passed through; the present is a review, the
future rests with our Heavenly Father to mete
out and we know to those who endure it will be
glorious. 
	These are a few of my thoughts on this day the
4th, of March one of the national days of our
country when one's thoughts incline to consider
the position and workings of this great Republic 
in view of its momentous questions.
						Z. D. H. Young.


