[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Parker]
The Relief Society Annual General Conference—1961 Gencral Secretary-Treasurer RATITUDE for Relief SoGG ciety — as a great world-wide sisterhood — was the soul-stirring feeling echoing through the hearts of approximately 2,828 stake and mission district officers as they assembled in the opening session of the 1961 Annual General Relief Society Conference in the Tabernacle on Temple Square in Salt Lake City, on Wednesday, September 27, at 9:30 am. 'The international aspect of the conference was intensified upon the arrival in the city, prior to the conference, of stake Relief Society presidents from faraway stakes of the Church, among them new stakes in Australia, New Zealand, England, Holland, Germany, and Alaska. President Belle S. Spafford conducted the sessions in the Tabernacle of the two-day conference. Supporting her were her Counselors Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen, and the other members of the General Board. Urgent pleas were made at the conference in regard to Relief Soicety's role in fellowshipping new members and extending the blessings of the organization to all of the women of the Church. The opening address of the conference in the Officers Meeting was an inspiring message by President Joseph Fielding Smith, advisor to Relief Society. He urged Relief Page 820 Society leaders to return to their homes in "all parts of the world," and continue to lead and teach the necessity of keeping the commandments of the Lord. In this time of uncertainty and world tension, he said, "We have security of protection — the protection of God and his Son Jesus Christ based on keeping his commandments." Elder Mark E. Petersen, also an advisor to Relief Society, challenged the leaders assembled to "convert every woman in the Church to Relief Society,' and "to go out and seek them," also, to "pave the way to conversions by being friendly to our nonmember neighbors." In the opening session, President Spafford reported on the growth of Relief Society during 1960, citing heartwarming examples of its service and accomplishments; gave pertinent instructions regarding the functioning of the organization; and also urged intensified effort to extend the arm of fellowship to newly converted sisters and to expand membership goals to include good, non-Latter-day Saints. The music for the opening session was presented by the American group of the International Singing Mothers Chorus, including a few visiting British sisters who rendered the music at the dedication of the Hyde Park Chapel in London in February 1961. Sister Florence Jep- THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL CONFERENCE 1961 821 person Madsen directed the chorus, with Elder Frank W. Asper at the organ. The principal speaker in the Wednesday afternoon general session was President Hugh B. Brown of the First Presidency. In his inspiring message he emphasized the important role of mothers in the home and with their families. He admonished the women of the Church to develop homes that are "'enveloped by love and hallowed by prayer," and for them to enlist in a "militant campaign" in defense of the home and family. President Spafford in her address to the women of the Church portrayed the well-ordered home as the place of peace and shelter and urged that mothers firmly position themselves "in preserving the enduring, spiritual values which time and the prophets have taught us are unchangeable, and which are the guarantee of the stability of our homes, and the eternal well-being of our children." Counselor Sharp spoke of four responsibilities of Relief Society which are not outmoded today, as set forth by President McKay, and urged all women to join the Relief Society. Counselor Madsen talked of the place of Relief Society in the lives of its members as a "bulwark in this time when godlessness is rampant in the world," and of the need today for courageous women who are "unafraid to live as the Lord would have them live." Sister Mildred B. Eyring, member of the General Board, urged the sisters to be "a peculiar people," as referred to by Paul the apostle, and not to covet or follow the ways of the world. 450-voice chorus of Singing Mothers from the following eighteen stakes rendered inspiring music for this session under the direction of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen: Alpine, East Provo, East Sharon, Kolob, Lehi, Nebo, Orem, Orem West, Palmyra, Provo, Santaquin-Tintic, Sharon, Spanish Fork, Springville, Timpanogos, Utah, West Utah, and West Sharon. Elder Frank W. Asper accompanied at the organ. Members of the General Board greeted approximately 2200 stake and mission officers at the annual reception in the Relief Society Building on Wednesday evening from 7 to 10. In the Thursday morning departmental meeting in the Tabernacle, inspiring dramatic presentations were given introducing courses of study for the 1961-62 season. The theology presentation __ entitled "Builders of the Kingdom" featured the fifth year of the course on The Doctrine and Covenants; the literature presentation "Listen to the Words" introduced a fourth year on America's literature; and the dramatization "The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan" gave insight into the new