[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Protect | Author: Brough]
[Protect Your Family Against Tuberculosis Franklin K. Brough]
the  1961  Annual  General  Relief  tion  —  the  protection  of  God  and 
Society  Conference  in  the  Taber-  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  based  on  keep- 
nacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  ing  his  commandments."  Elder 
Lake  City,  on  Wednesday,  Septem-  Mark  E.  Petersen,  also  an  advisor  to 
ber  27,  at  9:30  a.m.  The  inter-  Relief  Society,  challenged  the  lead- 
national  aspect  of  the  conference  ers  assembled  to  "convert  every 
was  intensified  upon  the  arrival  in  woman  in  the  Church  to  Relief 
the  city,  prior  to  the  conference,  of  Society,"  and  "to  go  out  and  seek 
stake  Relief  Society  presidents  from  them,"  also,  to  "pave  the  way  to 
faraway  stakes  of  the  Church,  among  conversions  by  being  friendly  to  our 
them  new  stakes  in  Australia,  New  nonmember  neighbors." 
Zealand,  England,  Holland,  Ger-  In  the  opening  session.  President 
many,  and  Alaska.  Spafford  reported  on  the  growth  of 
President  Belle  S.  Spafford  con-  Relief  Society  during  i960,  citing 
ducted  the  sessions  in  the  Taber-  heartwarming  examples  of  its  serv- 
nacle  of  the  two-day  conference,  ice  and  accomplishments;  gave  per- 
Supporting  her  were  her  Counselors  tinent  instructions  regarding  the 
Marianne  C.  Sharp  and  Louise  W.  functioning  of  the  organization; 
Madsen,  and  the  other  members  of  and  also  urged  intensified  effort  to 
the  General  Board.  extend  the  arm  of  fellowship  to  new- 
Urgent  pleas  were  made  at  the  ly  converted  sisters  and  to  expand 
conference  in  regard  to  Relief  So-  membership  goals  to  include  good, 
icety's  role  in  fellowshipping  new  non-Latter-day  Saints, 
members  and  extending  the  bless-  The  music  for  the  opening  ses- 
ings  of  the  organization  to  all  of  the  sion  was  presented  by  the  American 
women  of  the  Church.  group  of  the  International  Singing 
The  opening  address  of  the  con-  Mothers  Chorus,  including  a  few 
ference  in  the  Officers  Meeting  was  visiting  British  sisters  who  rendered 
an  inspiring  message  by  President  the  music  at  the  dedication  of  the 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  advisor  to  Hyde  Park  Chapel  in  London  in 
Relief    Society.     He    urged    Relief  February  1961.    Sister  Florence  Jep- 
Page  820

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE  1961 
821 
person  Madsen  directed  the  chorus, 
with  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at 
the  organ. 
The  principal  speaker  in  the  Wed- 
nesday afternoon  general  session  was 
President  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the 
First  Presidency.  In  his  inspiring 
message  he  emphasized  the  impor- 
tant role  of  mothers  in  the  home 
and  with  their  families.  He  ad- 
monished the  women  of  the  Church 
to  develop  homes  that  are  ''en- 
veloped by  love  and  hallowed  by 
prayer/'  and  for  them  to  enlist  in  a 
''militant  campaign"  in  defense  of 
the  home  and  family. 
President  Spafford  in  her  address 
to  the  women  of  the  Church  por- 
trayed the  well-ordered  home  as  the 
place  of  peace  and  shelter  and  urged 
that  mothers  firmly  position  them- 
selves "in  preserving  the  enduring, 
spiritual  values  which  time  and  the 
prophets  have  taught  us  are  un- 
changeable, and  which  are  the 
guarantee  of  the  stability  of  our 
homes,  and  the  eternal  well-being  of 
our  children."  Counselor  Sharp 
spoke  of  four  responsibilities  of  Re- 
lief Society  which  are  not  outmoded 
today,  as  set  forth  by  President 
McKay,  and  urged  all  women  to  join 
the  Relief  Society.  Counselor  Mad- 
sen  talked  of  the  place  of  Relief 
Society  in  the  lives  of  its  members 
as  a  "bulwark  in  this  time  when 
godlessness  is  rampant  in  the 
world,"  and  of  the  need  today  for 
courageous  women  who  are  "un- 
afraid to  live  as  the  Lord  would  have 
them  live."  Sister  Mildred  B.  Eyr- 
ing,  member  of  the  General  Board, 
urged  the  sisters  to  be  "a  peculiar 
people,"  as  referred  to  by  Paul  the 
apostle,  and  not  to  covet  or  follow 
the  ways  of  the  world. 
A  450-voice  chorus  of  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  following 
eighteen  stakes  rendered  inspiring 
music  for  this  session  under  the 
direction  of  Sister  Florence  Jepper- 
son  Madsen:  Alpine,  East  Provo, 
East  Sharon,  Kolob,  Lehi,  Nebo, 
Orem,  Orem  West,  Palmyra,  Provo, 
Santaquin-Tintic,  Sharon,  Spanish 
Fork,  Springville,  Timpanogos, 
Utah,  West  Utah,  and  West  Shar- 
on. Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  accom- 
panied at  the  organ. 
Members  of  the  General  Board 
greeted  approximately  2200  stake 
and  mission  officers  at  the  annual 
reception  in  the  Relief  Society 
Building  on  Wednesday  evening 
from  7  to  10. 
In  the  Thursday  morning  depart- 
mental meeting  in  the  Tabernacle, 
inspiring  dramatic  presentations 
were  given  introducing  courses  of 
study  for  the  1961-62  season.  The 
theology  presentation  entitled 
"Builders  of  the  Kingdom"  featured 
the  fifth  year  of  the  course  on  The 
Doctrine  and  Covenants;  the  litera- 
ture presentation  "Listen  to  the 
Words"  introduced  a  fourth  year 
on  America's  literature;  and  the 
dramatization  "The  Place  of  Wom- 
an in  the  Gospel  Plan"  gave  insight 
into  the  new  social  science  course 
by  the  same  name.  Special  music 
in  the  theology  presentation  was 
rendered  by  a  choral  group,  with 
Sisters  Jewel  J.  Cutler  and  Jessie 
Evans  Smith  as  soloists.  One  of 
the  selections  they  sang  was  com- 
posed by  Luacine  Clark  Fox.  Broth- 
er Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the 
console. 
Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the 
Council  of  Twelve  addressed  stake 
and   mission    officers    in    the   early 
(Con finned  on  page  840)

Six  til    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woiiiaii's  Exponent,  December  1901 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
SPECIAL  CONFERENCE  —  RELIEF  SOCIETY  REORGANIZED:  .  .  . 
This  became  necessary  on  account  of  the  demise  of  the  late  beloved  President,  Sister