[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science — Homemaking, a Creative Calling (Continued) Ariel S. Ballif 857]

Seeing his Utopian ideals crushed, he wrote his friend William Dean Howells, I feel every day more sensibly that I belong to a former age. A new generation has grown up that knows not Joseph, and I have nothing left to do but to rake together what embers are left of my fire and get what warmth out of them I may. Still believing in Democracy as "that form of society in which every man had a chance and knew that he had it," finally his great hope, similar to Jefferson's, was in an aristocracy of talent and achievement whenever and wherever it might be found in the youth, regardless of birth or social station. What we need more than anything else is to increase the number of our highly trained minds; for these, wherever they go, are sure to carry with them the seeds of sounder thinking and of higher ideals. In 1877, Lowell was appointed minister to Spain as a_ reward for his political efforts. So successful was he that, in 1880, he was made munister to Great Britain. Of him Queen Victoria wrote that during her reign "no one had created so much interest or won so much regard." After having "the pick and run of the best society in the kingdom" for five years, he returned for the last time to his beloved Elmwood, there to find solace for his second wife's death, which left him an honored but broken man until his own passing in 1891. The Pcrsonal Lowell Throughout his life the magnetism and urbane power which people felt in Lowell's presence were not easily forgotten. Moses Coit Tyler, the eminent literary historian, met him for the first time in 1882 at the American Legation in London's Victoria Street: My first impression was of the gracefulness and graciousness of the man; his elegance in dress and form; his manly beauty. As he told me, he was sixty-three years old; his dark auburn hair still abundant and rich, just touched with silver and parted in the middle. His eyes bright, his whole face mobile, aristocratic, refined. He is the perfect courtier and man of the world, dashed by scholarship, wit, genius, consciousness of reputation and_ success. His voice was very pleasant and sweet; his tones indescribably pleasant. His fluency in words perfect, his diction neat, pointed, with merry implications and fine turns.... His manners have the ease, pose, facility and polish of one who has got used to courts and palaces. I must say I never saw a more perfect gentleman. LESSON DEPARTMENT One of Lowell's greatest legacies to us is the sheer pleasure he found in words, regardless as to whether he was lecturing wherever his fancy led him, to the delight of his Harvard boys; roaming about in his great library where he filled his destiny as "one of the last great readers'; assuming a role and maintaining it perfectly during an entire social evening; or writing spontaneously to those he loved. Consider the following excerpts from his letters as being nothing less than delight: Elmwood, May 12, 1848... Here I am in my garret. I slept here when I was a little curly-headed boy, and used to see visions between me and the ceiling, and dream the so often recurting dream of having the earth put into my hand like an orange. In it I used to be shut up without a lamp—my mother saying that none of her children should be afraid of the dark — to hide my head under the pillows, and then not to be able to shut out the shapeless monsters that thronged around me, minted in my brain. Elmwood, January 11, 1853 My Dear Sarah, You know that I promised solemnly to write you a letter from Switzerland, and therefore, of course, I didn't do it. 'These epistolary promises to pay always do (or at least always ought to) come back protested. A letter ought always to be the genuine and natural flower of one's disposition—proper both to the writer and the season—and none of your turnip japonicas cut laboriously out of a cheap and flabby material.... I do not like shuttle-cock correspondences. What is the use of our loving people if you can't let us owe them a letter? If they can't be sure we keep on loving them if we don't keep sending an acknowledgment under our hands and seals once a month? As if there were a statute of limitations for affection. 'The moment Love begins to think of Duty, he may as well go hang himself with his own bow-string. All this means that if I should never write you 855 another letter (which is extremely likely), and we should never meet again till I drop in upon you some day on another planet, I shall give myself an anxious look in the mirror (while I am waiting for you to come down), and shall hear the flutter of your descending wings with the same admiring expectation as I should now listen for your foot upon the stairs.... Cambridge, September 16, 1856 To. C. E. Norton:... It seems to me as if I had never seen nature again since those old days when the balancing of a yellow butterfly over a thistlebroom was spiritual food and lodging for a whole forenoon. This morning I have had it all over again. There were the same cloud-shadows I used to race with — the same purple on the western hills — and, as I walked along, the great grandchildren of the same metallic devil's-darning needles slid sideways from the path and were back again as soon as I had passed. Nature has not budged an inch in all these years... One feels as if he were a poet, and one's own Odyssey sings itself in one's blood as he walks.... It ls something to be able to say "I have been happy for two hours." I wanted to tell you, too, what glorious fall weather we are having, clear and champagney, the northwest wind crisping Fresh Pond to steel-blue, and curling the wet lily-pads over till they bloom in a sudden flash of golden sunshine. How I do love the earth! I feel it thrill under my feet. I feel somehow as if it were conscious of my love, as if something passed into my dancing blood from it. The Rustic Lowell Although throughout his _ life Lowell read constantly in many languages to keep his literary sensitivities keenly alive, some of his own best-loved writings were written informally in the rugged, colorful New England dialect. His Biglow Papers, attributed to "Birdofredum Sawin," satirized sharply both the Mexican and Civil Wars and were immensely popular. Perhaps best known today is ""The Courtin'" 856 which he dashed off at the printer's request to fill up a page. Its folksy charm is both strong and immediane: God makes sech nights, all white an' still Fur'z you can look or listen, Moonshine an' snow on field an' hill, All silence an' all glisten. Zekle crep' up quite unbeknown An, peeked in thru' the winder, An' there sot Huldy all alone, Ith no one nigh to hender The wooing proceeds, abashed yet strong, modest yet successful for all concerned. 'The authentic regional naturalness also saturates "Fitz Adam's Story" which Lowell worked on for decades: "Well, there I lingered through, In that sweet atmosphere of hazy blue, So leisurely, so soothing, so forgiving, That sometimes makes New England fit all October for living. I watched the landscape, erst so granite glum, Bloom like the south side of a ripening plum, And each rock-maple on the hillside make His ten days' sunset doubled in_ the lake. &.. Ah! There's a deal of sugar in the sun! 'Tap me in Indian summer, I should run A juice to make rock-candy of, — but then We get such weather scarce one year in tem Sit Launfal: This same radiant love of rural nature produced Lowell's most oftquoted lines in the First Prelude: And what is so rare as a day in June? Then, if ever, come perfect days; Then Heaven tries earth if it be in tune, And over it softly her warm ear lays: Whether we look, or whether we listen, We hear life murmur, or see it glisteri.... Despite the just criticism that the two preludes are scarcely related to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1961 the poem itself and therefore mar its organization, "The Vision of Sir Launfal," through the decades, has well maintained its secure place in the hearts of America. It represents Lowell in his period of most intense belief in the brotherhood of man when brought together in equality and love through practicing selfless Christian giving. Before Sir Launfal departs in search of the Holy Grail, he dreams that as he departs a leprous beggar spurns the gold coin he tosses him, then after Sir Launfal returns home, haggard and unsuccessful, the beggar again asks for alms, and Sir Launfal shares his last crust of bread with him, and the beggar is seen to be Christ. At once Sir Launfal awakens, gives up his quest, since he has found the Grail in his own castle. He then opens wide his castle doors, sharing his worldly goods with all mankind. The final scene is most memorable. When, upon his return, the leper asks again for alms, Sir Launfal recalls his first haughty gift, and The heart within him was ashes and dust; He parted in twain his single crust, He broke the ice on the streamlet's brink, And gave the leper to eat and drink, "I'was a mouldy crust of coarse brown bread, "Twas water out of a wooden bowl,— Yet with fine wheaten bread was the leper fed, And 'twas red wine he drank with his thirsty soul. As Sir Launfal mused with a downcast face, A light shone round about the place; The leper no longer crouched at his side, But stood before him glorified, Shining and tall and fair and straight.... His words were shed softer than leaves from the pine, LESSON DEPARTMENT And they fell on Sir Launfal as snows on the brine. "Lo it is I, be not afraid! In many climes, without avail, Thou hast spent thy life for the Holy Grail; Behold, it is here,—this cup which thou Didst fill at the streamlet for me but now; This crust is my body broken for thee, This water His blood that died on the tree. The Holy Supper is kept, indeed, In whatso we share with another's need: Not what we give, but what we share, — For the gift without the giver is bare; Who gives himself with his alms feeds three, — Himself, his hungering neighbor, and me." The longer one reads Lowell the more apparent it becomes that he had throughout his life many sets 857 of values; yet each justly represents another of the many realms of midnineteenth century America, for which Lowell served as spokesman. We may well conclude that in his variousness lies his real self, and his value and pleasure for us today. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What qualities do you find in Lowell which would make him capable of first appreciating the greatness of Lincoln? 2. Do you feel Lowell's return to conservatism made him a better or a weaker man? A greater or weaker author? 3. Which of his writings that you know best catches the real personality of Lowell? Social Stustiee = The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan MOTHERHOOD Lesson 5 — Homemaking, a Creative Calling (Continued) Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Tuesday, March 27, 1962 Objective: 'To help women realize the necessity of continued personal development. "... Homemaking... Is the sphere in which women can find the most happiness: and render the most service" (Ellsworth, Annie M. The Relief Society Magazine, Januarty 1957, page 4). The Mother Role and Happiness APPINESS is a_ product of creative and constructive living. Homemaking has to do with providing the family members with the kind of influence that will produce the greatest achievement, and, therefore, the most satisfaction for them. Happiness can be measured in terms of achievement. The central element in developing the proper attitude in the home toward achievement is the mother's influence. 1. Mother's Role Includes Responsibility for the 'Tangible Part of the Home Environment. Previously in these lessons, we have referred to the mother as the managing director of the home. This has specific reference to the facilities and management of the physical features. 'The title implies a degree of economic ability. 'This ability contributes to the failure or success of the financial structure of the home. Mother should know how to get the maximum return for every: 858 dollar spent. Such physical needs as food, clothing, heat and light, furnishings, comforts, and each child's necessities for school, recreation, and the unending miscellaneous list must be supplied without over-spending the part of the family income allotted for the home expenses. In other words, mother should be a financial wizard, to fulfill her economic role. She should seriously study the problem and become proficient in the wise use and handling of money. More unhappiness occurs in the average home over money matters than over almost any other single problem. The economic security and success of the average family are dependent in large measure upon the efficient planning and organizational ability of the mother. The effectiveness of the home is expressed in its smooth-running operation. 'There are homes where everything seems just a little behind, where the family just does not catch up with things. The clock is always just one step ahead of their readiness. In a case like this, someone must establish a pattern that will facilitate the activities in the home. They may begin with a proper hour to retire, so that a new day can begin on time after a good night's rest. 'The hour of rising must be so arranged that there is time for the necessary preparations. It takes time to prepare the family for the day's activities. There should be time for the family to kneel in prayer. There should be time for the morning meal, properly served. 'To establish this facility requires a co-operative action from parents particularly, but from all members, as well, if it is to succeed. Both father and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1961 mother are responsible, but mother will have to assume the role of the starter. She has the management of the home and, in order for her planning to be effective, she must allow for the necessary time to carry out her plans. Possibly the most significant tangible feature responsible for happiness in the home is the physical presence of mother. Both parents are vital to a successful, happy home life. But the fact that mother is there to say goodbye when the children leave for work, school, or play, and that she is ready and waiting with good food and a demonstration of her love in word and deed when they come home at noon or night, makes mother the pillar the children tie to from birth throughout their lifetime. Of course, the more father participates in the activities of the home the more he becomes a part of this anchorage of the family members to the home. Recently the following figures were released about married women gainfully employed. \Women who work out of the home cannot give the needed amount of their personal attention to the developing children. In the vear 1900 there was about one in eighteen married women gainfully employed. By 1930 this had changed to one in nine. By 1940 it had changed to one in seven. By 1957 wives eighteen years or older, living with their husbands, had reached to almost one in three gainfully employed. One in two married women is a wage earner during the first year of marriage, while one in five is a wage earner after five years of marriage. There are many reasons given why mothers work. The working LESSON DEPARTMENT mother cannot be physically present with her family enough of the time during their waking hours. The results we do know are not for the best good of the family. One important cause of delinquency is the absence of mother from the home. 2. Mother's Role Includes an Intangible Strength and Influence. These radiate from her personality as the warming rays of the sun — generally taken for granted, frequently unnoticed, and often unappreciated, but always there. One is reminded that a tiny baby, unhappy in the arms of anyone else, is comforted in the arms of its mother. The child with an injured finger is relieved of the suffering by mother's kiss, and goes about his play. If mother's place is established on the basis of being always available with sympathetic understanding, the child will seek her in time of his need. Mother is not only a comforter but a counselor and, more important, an ideal. A child's preference for a counselor in seeking advice and direction in life should always be his own parents. 'This will be the case if parents have developed a confidence and an assurance in their children by wise and judicious association with them from babyhood. Mother being more available naturally becomes the first contact when problems arise. 'This favored relationship should be shared with and evaluated by the father to insure the confidence and understanding of all concerned and to keep balance in the family unit. Counseling together is a safe method and, through 859 it, dangerous and hasty decisions are often avoided. Mother's great strength lies in her living representation to her children of the ideals, values, and moral standards she wants them to acquire. There can be no deviation in her own life from the teachings she gives to the children. The Savior impressed all who knew him with the fact that what he taught he practiced as his way of life. Children are constantly in strategic positions for observation of their parents. Often mothers who have not had the support of fathers in regard to ideals and standards, have been able to establish fine idealism and excellent patterns of behavior in their children because mothers were true to the teachings they gave their children. 'There is no one way to teach love, respect, patience, self-control, loyalty, humility, and all the other fine and desirable traits. Each mother, with sincerity and humility, will teach out of the richness of her experience, using the helpful things that man has learned through his generations of research and experience, and calling upon the revealed mind and will of God to set her standards and values straight. We are always impressed by the statements of people of greatness when they refer to their mothers as their ideals and source of inspiration. 'They often attribute their success to their mothers. This is credit justly given. It should be more commonly expressed than it is. What a vital place and position of influence mother holds! Surely there is no substitute for her and no way of her avoiding the responsibilities of motherhood. 860 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1961 christmas Music for Three Part Womens Choruses ( ) BIRTHDAY OF A KING— Neidlinger _ ceceeeeeeeeees.20 ( ) BETHLEHEM—Bowker 20: STAR OF THE EAST—Kennedy.25 STAR WAS HIS CANDLE— ( ) CAROL OF THE BELLS— Wilhousky 2--.22e. Ccewaeeeeee.20 ( ) CAROL OF THE DRUM—Davis.25 ( ) CHRISTMAS BELLS—Duncan...18 ( ) GESU BAMBINO—Yon 26 ( ) HEAR THE BELLS—Frank By 5) ( ) HAIL, THE PRINCE OF PEACE—Fisher. Ae ( ) JOY TO THE WORLD—Marzo.20 ( ) LITTLE DONKEY—Boswell 26 ( ) NOWELL—Breft -02.020.0000.18 ( ) O HOLY NIGHT—Adam.20 yo ( ) Cee MiEGO" 0 a..20 ( ) STANDARD CHRISTMAS CAROLS—Lorenz -- 22 ¥ Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank I DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY I 15 E. Ist South I Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. ( ) On Approval ( ) Charge { ) Money Enclosed ee 1 Address o.. N.. E ecceececcesceeseceeceseeenececennecensneeees City Ge Stet ee cenennaitittitenenenes 1 I ein 15 4 Ist South. 3. In the Mother Role She Should Not Neglect Self. Mother frequently loses herself in the work of the home, but she should never lose sight of her own development. She is a most essential element in the success of the home. She should be stimulated with interests that, at all times, demand the development of her best self. Mother should always have a dynamic challenge. The monotony of routine in household chores has been classified as a form of housewife sickness. Endless routine may become drudgery without the mental alertness which grows out of an over-all challenge. Efforts to escape drudgery sometimes drive women out of the home with no object except escape. Mothers should never forget the challenge that comes from a neverending demand for personal charm. This does not refer to outward appearance only. Many women have emphasized their physical beauty, but failed to cultivate their minds or their hearts. 'This often makes a selfish, self-centered wife and a dull companion. Personal charm involves the total personality with an equal concern for the spiritual, physical, and intellectual development. Each area needs constant attention. There are many ways of increasing one's efficiency in home management. 'This part of woman's assignment can always challenge a fertile mind. Ways and means of saving time, money, and in creating a new look with the old furnishings require real ingenuity. There is a whole field of exciting new adventure in the advancement LESSON DEPARTMENT of a mother's knowledge of effective child guidance. When families are young this knowledge can produce helpful assistance for the growth and development of the children. The interest in this area can continue even to the great-great-grandchildren. The above mentioned challenging areas for self-development are still not the complete answer, though there is a world of value in them. But mother must have the great urge and encouragement to cultivate and express her own talents and capacities with a determined interest, an interest that challenges the best in her mentally and provides a feeling of achievement and recognition in her own night. This is not accomplished in one day or night. It certainly does not take the place of her great calling as a mother. As her efficiency improves the routine work of her home, she can spend more time in the stimulation and development of her talents. As the family grows up and leaves the home, this talent can develop into a most fruitful expression that fills the emptiness and keeps the activity of the mother on a high plane of effectiveness. 4. Mother's World Is a Changing and Expanding One. To the woman there is a special meaning attached to the terms "changing and expanding world." Changes begin when she _ begins housekeeping. Her contact with the world outside is reduced, and her home activities become the center of her attention. Her husband continues with his established pattern of business or profession with the usual contacts. 'This should moti- 861 ROSE PARADE TOUR Eight fun filled days, including San Diego; Tijuana, Mexico; Catalina Island; Los Angeles; Las Vegas. Grandstand seats at Rose Parade. HAWAIIAN TOUR January 2 MEXICAN TOUR Leaving end of January. Mexico City, Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins Ask about Mardigras Tour in February. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! Beginning and advanced _ typewriting classes for all ages are starting October 30 at L. D. S. Business College. Type your letters, minutes, reports, genealogy sheets, etc. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 411 East South Temple Salt Lake City 11, Utah 862 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1961 Christmas Special Jessie Evans Smith's Amazing New Invention MAGNA-VU The best Christmas gift possible for a loved one. Help them to see better so they can work with both hands by using a "Magna-Vu." It is supported by an adjustable strap around the neck. With this beautiful chrome-plated magnifying glass you can again thread needles, sew, read, etc. You can do many of the things you used to do. A handy aid for workday. $5.00 each prepaid Send money to: SUPPLY HOUSE Box F.

G. 145 Salt Lake City, Utah e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover.