[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: A Heart | Author: Bell]
[A Heart of Love Pauline M. Bell]
which  unite  individual  hearts,  unite 
people,  groups,  and  nations  and 
thereby  help  to  establish  universal 
peace.  As  we  meet  here  today  in 
Relief  Society  Conference,  there  is 
peace  and  beauty  all  around  us,  but 
we  are  keenly  conscious  of  the 
dangers  which  beset  our  divided  and 
imperiled  world.  Nineteen  sixty-one 
and  two  may  go  down  in  history 
as  the  most  crucial  years  of  all  times, 
but,  despite  the  daily  dirges  of  the 
press,  we  shall  not  leave  this  session 
in  a  mood  of  fearful  apprehension. 
I  read  from  the  writings  of  a  great 
woman  on  that.  She  said,  *The 
gloom  of  the  world  is  but  a  shadow; 
behind  it,  yet  within  our  reach,  is 
joy.    There  is  radiance  and  glory  in 
the  darkness,  could  we  but  see,  and 
to  see  we  have  only  to  look."  We 
beseech  you  to  look. 
While  we  know  that  all  is  not 
well  in  the  world,  we  bring  a  mes- 
sage to  offset  what  I  said  about  the 
awful  conditions  that  confront  us, 
a  message  from  the  Priesthood  to 
the  Church:  While  all  is  not  well 
in  the  world,  we  testify  that  God 
is  still  in  heaven,  that  Christ  will 
defeat  anti-Christ,  that  the  millen- 
nium will  be  ushered  in,  that  Satan 
will  be  bound,  and  there  will  be  a 
new  heaven  and  a  new  earth,  and 
you  are  to  join  with  us  in  helping 
to  build  that  new  world  and  pre- 
pare for  the  second  coming  of  the 
Lord.  You  are  the  harbingers  and 
builders  of  a  new  and  better  world. 
We  challenge  you  to  catch  the 
vision  of  your  exalted  callings.  Ac- 
cept the  obligation,  rise  to  its 
privileges  and  blessings.  We  recog- 
nize the  Relief  Society  as  a  most 
important  arm  of  the  Church.  And 
now,  sisters,  part  of  the  duties  rest- 
ing upon  some  members  of  the 
Priesthood  today  has  to  do  with 
bearing  testimony.  There  never 
was  a  time  when  conviction  and 
dedication  were  more  needed  than 
now.  We  need  men  to  match  our 
message,  men  who  have  the  testi- 
mony that  makes  it  possible  for 
them  to  be  witnesses  of  Christ,  to 
stand  before  the  people  and  testify 
of  him,  and  women  to  inspire  them. 
In  humility,  but  with  the  same 
authority  that  enabled  Peter  to  say 
in  answer  to  the  question  of  Christ, 
''Whom  do  men  say  that  I  am?" 
and  from  the  same  source  of  inspira- 
tion, I  declare  to  you,  my  beloved 
sisters,  and  to  him,  'Thou  art  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God" 
(Mt.  16:16).

818  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER    1961 
COME  years  ago  in  England,  Sister  for  it  is  in  harmony  with  what  I 
Brown  wrote  a  poem.     I  hope  have  been  trying  to  say.    She  titled 
I  will  not  be  thought  indelicate  if  it  ''Woman  Exalted." 
I  bring  you  some  parts  of  that  poem, 
Ye  chosen  ones  .  .  .  list  to  his  word: — 
"Man  is  not  without  woman  in  the  Lord/' 
Think  ye  then  that  Gods  are  half-Gods,  not  whole, 
And  reign,  and  make  these  orbs  of  light,  and  live  incomplete,  alone, 
And  in  celestial  might  make  harmony  with  harps  half-strung? 
The  answer's  thine  already.     Thou  hast  it  in  thy  heart. 
'Twas  Mary  knew  from  angel  bright  that  she  was 
Chosen  to  clothe  the  Spirit  of  our  Lord.    Her  heart 
Sang  its  exquisite  joy!     Told  she  this  to  the  other 
Honored  of  the  Lord.    And  found  believing  response  from  this 
Her  woman  kin. 
Followers  of  our  Savior  and  his  church  were  women  not  a  few. 
How  great  their  love,  how  complete  their  trust  in  him! 
E'en  when  the  cross  the  Son  and  Master  bore,  and  lifted,  tortured. 
Broke  the  chains  that  bound  the  mortal  man  and  had  bade  him 
sleep  forever. 
How  great  I  say,  in  that  trusting  humility  like  unto  a  child's, 
how  supreme! 
Last  at  the  cross  were  they  —  first  at  the  tomb  —  heralds  of  the 
Risen  Lord! 
"Not  honored,"  say  you,  and  "below  your  brother  man?" 
Open  thine  eyes  and  see  what  place  is  given  thee,  O  woman  fair! 
Hold  high  thy  head  to  wear  its  crown.     Kneel  thou,  too,  in 
Reverence  to  thy  Lord.    For  thank  offering  remember  thou  his  word 
"O  be  ye  clean  that  bear  the  vessels  of  the  Lord." 
Prepare  thy  souls  to  bear  the  souls  of  men.