[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Henry | Author: Presidency]
Henry D. Moyle, First Counselor in The First Presidency Henry Dinwoodey Moyle, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, was appointed, ordained, and set apart as First Counselor in the First Presidency of the Church, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., on October 6, 1961. President Moyle had served as Second Counselor in the First Presidency since June 14, 1959, at the time of the passing of President Stephen L Richards. At that time Elder Harold B. Lee wrote for The Relief Society Magazine: "President David O. McKay announced his new Second Counselor, Henry D. Moyle — which appointment, as the President explained, was inspired from the proper source — the Church realized that, literally, the Lord had put his hand upon the man needed for the work to be done." President Moyle, a leader of great spirituality, broad experience, and wise judgment, was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 22, 1889, a son of James H. Moyle and Alice E. Dinwoodey, true representatives of the pioneer heritage. He was educated in Salt Lake City schools, received his bachelor of science degree from the University of Utah, a law degree from the University of Chicago, and did graduate work at the University of Freiburg. He served three years as a missionary in Germany and was a captain of infantry in the First World War. He was United States District Attorney Page 794 () October 12, 1961, President for Utah and was active in many business interests. For ten years he presided over Cottonwood Stake in Salt Lake County, where his vigorous leadership in the Welfare Program resulted in his appointment in 1936, by the First Presidency, as a member of the General Church Welfare Committee, and a_ year later he became chairman. His long devotion to missionary work has been of inestimable value in spreading the gospel message throughout the world. As President Moyle declared in his October 1961 Conference address: " you cannot be close to missionary work without being conscious of and without acknowledging the fact that the Lord has touched the hearts of men all over the world and made them responsive to the humble testimonies of the elders...." The testimony of President Moyle is at once humble and yet spiritually resplendent, and so inspirational that it has touched the hearts of the entire Church. In 1919 President Moyle married Alberta Wright, a gracious and beautiful woman, who has been a true helpmate and an inspiration and comfort to President Moyle. Sister Moyle, in her travels with President Moyle, has become known and loved by thousands of Relief Society women, who have been uplifted and blessed by her faith and her lovely spirit. President and Sister Moyle have had three sons, two living, and four daughters. Page 795 PRESIDENT HENRY D. MOYLE 795 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1961 PRESIDENT HENRY D. MOYLE AND HIS FAMILY Upper picture, seated, left to mght: President Henry D. Moyle; Janet Moyle (Mrs. Veigh J. Nielson); Virginia Moyle (Mrs. Howard J. Marsh); Sister Alberta Wright Moyle (wife of President Moyle). Standing, left to right: Marie Moyle (Mrs. Frank G. Wangeman); Alice Moyle (Mrs. Kenneth W. Yeates, Jr.); Henry D. Moyle, Jr. At left: Richard Wright Moyle. PRESIDENT HENRY D. MOYLE Henry D. Moyle, Jr. Is President of the recently organized French East Mission; Richard is a student at the University of Utah; Alice Moyle is married to Kenneth W. Yeates, Jr.; Marie is the wife of Frank G. Wangeman; Virginia is Mrs. Howard J. Marsh; and Janet is Mrs. Veigh J. Nielson. President and Sister Moyle have twenty-four grandchildren. The sisters in all the stakes and missions of the Church rejoice in the appointment of President Moyle as First Counselor in the First Presidency, and their prayers are with him and his lovely family. Relief 7197 Society women throughout the world may well be directed by President Moyle's counsel to be always aware of the Heavenly Father's nearness "and the blessings which we receive." The sisters of the Church are grateful for the faith and inspiration expressed by President Moyle in his Conference address of Saturday, September 27th, in which he declared: "We know without any question of a doubt that the blessings which descend upon us as a people are directly commensurate with our faithfulness...." First Sall Margery S. Stewart In the winter moming Wild and white on the winnowed Peaks, snowflakes ride On silver runners Down the secret lakes of skies, Down the glassed slopes Of December. There was a touch warning Me to waken, to the wind-sowed Fields, to the wide Pillage of storm, sunners Of summer silenced, snow passes my eyes — Snow on the April branches I remember, Always beauty falls, falls Through my palms. But while it falls, feeds me With its bread... Its psalms.