[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Hugh B. | Author: Presidency]
86L abdq NMOWd "A HONH LNACISHYd oIpnyg yaesog President Hugh B. Brown Appointed Second Counselor in the First — RESIDENT Hugh B. Brown, Counselor in the First Presidency, was appointed, ordained, and set apart as Second Counselor in the First Presidency, on October 12, 1961. This distinguished honor and sacred responsibility came to President Brown following years of devoted and inspired service to the Church in many capacities. He has long encouraged, comforted, and blessed the members of the Church, and has inspired and directed young men and women in fields of service and spiritual development. President Brown was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 26, 1883, the son of Lydia Jane and Homer M. Brown. In his young manhood he went to Canada with his parents, and at the age of twenty-one, he was called upon a mission to Great Britain. Among his later callings to service in the Church have been the appointment as the first President of Lethbridge Stake; President of Granite Stake; twice President of the British Mission, Co-ordinator for Church servicemen in World War II, and a member of the faculty of Brigham Young University, where, in addition to his teaching responsibilities, he acted as co-ordinator for servicemen who were attending the University. In 1953 Elder Brown was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve; in 1958 he was ZINA YOUNG CARD BROWN (Wife of President Hugh B. Brown) sustained a member of the Council of the Twelve; and in June 1961, he was sustained as a Counselor in the First Presidency. President Brown's beloved wife, Zina Y. Card, whom he married in the Salt Lake Temple in 1908, has been a gracious and devoted helpmate to her husband, and an inspiration and blessing to the women of the Church. At the time he accepted the calling to be a member of the Council of the Twelve, President Brown said: "My beloved wife Zina Card Brown is more responsible for my being here than I am. Zina believed in me when I did not believe in myself." President and Page 799 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1961 ZINA LYDIA BROWN (Mrs. G. P. Brown) HUGH C. BROWN Sister Brown are the parents of two sons arid, six daughters. One son, Hugh Card Brown, was killed in 1942, while serving in the Royal Air Force. The lovely daughters are all mothers and homemakers. The wide and distinguished paroo] ZOLA GRACE BROWN HODSON (Mrs. W. G. Hodson) MRS. LAJUNE BROWN MUNK ticipation of President Brown in civic affairs, under two Governments (Canada and the United States), and his considerable training and experience in law and business, his commission as a major in the British Army, and other exacting responsi- PRESIDENT HUGH B. BROWN MARGARET BROWN JORGENSON (Mrs. Clinton O. Jorgenson) CAROL RAE BROWN BUNKER (Mrs. Douglas Bunker ) bilities, have given him a background in the temporal concerns of people which greatly increases his capacity as a leader, a counselor, and as a man of rectitude, strength, and devotion — a great man in the counsels of men. 801 MARY MYRTICE BROWN FIRMAGE (Mrs. Edwin R. Firmage) & DR. CHARLES MANLEY BROWN It is the blessed privilege of the women of the Church to sustain and uphold President Brown in this high calling to the First Presidency, and to accept in gratitude his leadership of inspiration and deep and seasoned wisdom. Gordon Bitner Hinckley Appointed to the Council of the Twelve Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve ELDER GORDON B. HINCKLEY S Mormonism has become a world-wide movement in _ recent years, the missionary system of the Church has taken on tremendous proportions. It involves the labors of more than 9,000 missionaries in sixty-four missions in twenty-eight nations in all parts of the free world. Through it last year approximately six million missionary tracts and one half million copies of The Book of Mormon were distributed, resulting in 48,000 convert baptisms, a figure which probably will be doubled in 1961. It is a great pulsing, progressive enterprise which touches intimately the lives of hosts of people both within and without the Church. Page 802 At the heart of it all sits a young man who co-ordinates its manifold activities under the direction of the First Presidency of the Church. He is Elder Gordon Bitner Hinckley, appointed as the newest member of the Council of the Twelve at the October 1961 General Conference of the Church. Over his desk and through his telephone pass literally thousands of communications pertaining to this work. They come from the missions themselves, from homes of missionaries, the Selective Service, colleges, printers, editors, writers, and translators. They pertain to assignment of missionaries, to transfer, when necessary, to care for the sick in the field, and death when that occasionally happens; to preparation and publication of mission literature in scores of tongues, to radio scripts, I'V programs, and even to transportation problems. Elder Hinckley has literally grown up with this modern missionary enterprise, and the details of its operation not only are directed but in a considerable degree have been developed by him. His missionary activity began in the depth of the depression, when there were relatively few missionaries in the field. 'That was in 1933.