[Vol48 | December 1961 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Gordon | Author: Petersen]
Having graduated from the Unt versity of Utah with a Bachelor of GORDON BITNER HINCKLEY APPOINTED TO THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE 803 ELDER GORDON B. HINCKLEY AND HIS FAMILY Front row, left to right: Clark Hinckley; Cynthia Hinckley. Back row, left to right: Virginia Hinckley; Marjorie Pay Hinckley, wife of Elder Hinckley; Hinckley Barnes; N. Alan Barnes. Elder Gordon B. Hinckley and granddaughter Heather Barnes; Kathleen Insert: Richard G. Hinckley, serving on a mission in Germany. Arts degree in June of the previous year, he was preparing to enter Columbia University School of Journalism when he received his call to go to England. Elder Joseph F. Mermill of the Council of the Twelve became president of the European mission in 1934, and recognizing the exceptional talents of this young missionary, he chose him as a special assistant in administering many of the affairs of the mission. Returning home at the close of his successful period of service, he was appointed by the Furst Presidency to work with President Stephen L Richards in the newly organized Church Radio, Publicity, and Mission Literature committee. In this capacity he prepared numerous aids for missionaries, including film strips, thousands of radio scripts, and the supervision of the mission literature for all the missions. One of his most important contributions in this connection was his work on the "Fulness of Times" series, consisting of thirty-nine halfhour dramatizations of Church history. These were produced in Hollywood by the finest talent available. Elder Hincklev wrote most of the scripts for the series, edited all of them, and supervised their production. 'This series has been used throughout the world and has been presented over at least 500 different radio stations which contributed their time without cost for the Church. He also produced a second series from The Book of Mormon under the title, "A New Witness for Christ," which also saw wide distribution. 804 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1961 OR years he has had the responsibility of producing the Sunday night Church broadcast over KSL. He has furnished radio programs for hundreds of other stations, and has carried the detail for our Church participation on "Columbia's Church of the Air" broadcasts. In 1938-39 the Church had an exhibit in the San Francisco World Fair on Treasure Island, which also was assigned to Elder Hinckley. For this purpose a scale model of the Salt Lake Tabernacle was made, and organ recitals and an illustrated story of the Church were presented there to tens of thousands of World Fair visitors. Elder Hinckley fulfilled a similar responsibility for the centennial of the discovery of gold in California. He supervised the building of a replica of the cabin occupied by the members of the Mormon Battalion when gold was found on January 24, 1848. On the occasion of this celebration, Governor Earl Warren, now of the United States Supreme Court, paid glowing tribute to the Mormon people. Elder Hinckley was assigned by President George Albert Smith to write, What of the Mormons, setting forth facts on the Church and its history for presentation to the governors of America who met in Salt Lake City for convention in 1947. The book has since become one of our most widely used missionary volumes. Elder Hinckley wrote The Life of James H. Moyle, the father of President Henry D. Moyle. He has authored scores of pamphlets and newspaper and magazine articles. He also worked on a committee which has produced the temple ceremonies in thirteen different languages, including German, Dutch, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Finnish, French, Spanish, 'Tahitian, Tongan, Samoan, and Maori. He has traveled extensively in the Orient in connection with his missionary assignments. He was caught in the anti-American moting in Tokyo in 1960, and was in Korea last May when the military took over the government there. Shooting occurred beneath his own hotel windows. At the age of twenty-seven he was named a member of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board and served in this capacity for nine years. In 1946 he became a counselor in the East Mill Creek Stake Presidency and ten years later was made stake president. He was sustained an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve on April 6, 1958. Elder Hinckley was born June 23, 1910, to an outstanding Mormon family. His father was Bryant S. Hinckley, for years President of the Liberty Stake and later of the Northern States Mission. His talented mother was Ada Bitner Hinckley, a woman of rare insight and faith. He is blessed with a remarkable wife in the person of Marjorie Pay Hinckley, who herself has been a devoted Church worker from childhood. They have five children. Still a young man, Elder Hinckley's talents will be a blessing to the Church for years to come. He ls a choice vessel in the hands of the Lord.