Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN oF ALL NatTIONs" THE LEAVES ARE FALLING: The poet tells us that the falling of the leaves brings regrets for the beauties and joys that are past, and passing away from us. It is good to be reminded of the sweetness we only half enjoyed, and if a tinge of sadness mingles with it—the deeper it will sink into our hearts and lives, and the more telling will be the lesson it will teach. We all need reminding of the "sunny hours'' that pass all too quickly, and if we had no shadows, no contrast, but were always basking in light and sunshine we should not even know it was the perfection of beauty; what would we know of daybreak if there was no night, would we rejoice as we do in the roseate dawn of each glorious morning if we had not felt the shadows and the darkness? Certainly not; we can all answer—and would we have the splendor of the gorgeous sunsets, were it not that day is departing and night coming on. And if it were always summer, we should not drink in as we do the resplendent glories of the autumn.—Aunt Em. LOVING WORDS Loving words will cost but little, Journeying up the hill of life; But they make the weak and weary Stronger, braver for the strife. Do you count them only trifles? What to earth are sun and rain? Never was a kind word wasted; Never one was said in vain. — FEAR NOT FOR ZION: Much has been accomplished in the great Latter-day work since coming to these valleys, and there is no doubt much more and greater work yet to be done before the ushering in of the Millennium, and the Lord has said He will do nothing except He reveal it to His servants the prophets. And when they re- ' ceive the word of the Lord, if the Saints are in doubt they should seek for a testimony, or if they have not sufficient humility and faith for that, stand still and watch and pray without ceasing and they will not go far astray; but if they give way to murmuring, the experience of the past has proven most effectually that they will fall into darkness, error and unbelief, and become backsliders, dissatisfied and unhappy. God has not forsaken his faithful saints—Selected ST. JOSEPH STAKE: The quarterly conference of the Relief Society was held at Central. Pres. East gave some very good instructions to the sisters which were teeming with love and kindness, asked them to be careful and have their minutes and reports correct. Brother George Cluff urged the young people to reflect more; and spoke of the bad influences they had to withstand when they set out to serve God. Beautifully portrayed the need of mental training, and showed the good advantage of a well cultivated mind, especially when a family are depending mostly upon us for their training. Hoped the young men and women would be noble fathers and mothers, which was always pleasing to God.—Rhoda E. Foster Page 742 ME>- BELLE S. SPAFFORD, general president of Relief Society, had an enriching experience last August in becoming acquainted with Dr. Jeanne Eder-Schwyzer of Zurich, Switzerland, President of the International Council of Women, of which the Relief Society ls an affiliate organization. Mrs. Eder, a doctor of philosophy, spent two days in Salt Lake City. She was traveling from New Zealand and Australia through America. Dr. Fder was educated in America. She was enthralled with Utah scenery and history. Dr. Eder addressed the Relief Society general board and special guests on the meeting of the International Council held last April in Athens, Greece, and spoke of the resolutions passed there. She expressed herself as being "deeply impressed with the work of the Relief Society' and "intensely interested in the welfare program." COLLEEN KAY HUTCHINS, Miss Utah for 1951, was crowned Miss America for 1952 in Atlantic City, September eighth, for her beauty, poise, personality, and talent in a reading from Maxwell Anderson's play, "Elizabeth the Queen." Twenty-five years old, five feet, ten inches tall, blonde, with lovely, expressive blue eyes, and weighing 143 pounds, Miss