[Vol14 | February 1927 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Norway and Sweden May Booth Talmage]
Norway and Sweden May Booth Talmage; Our few hours voyage from Denmark to Sweden left impressions vivid and delightful.

A lovely sea reflected the bluest of skies, and brilliant sunshine glinted the seething foam formed by the ploughing boat.

All too soon we sighted land again but the approach to shore held much of interest.

One lone dwelling, built high upon a barren boulder on the promontory, raised a query as to what life tragedy had sent its owner to seek such isolation.

Fourteen government warships were anchored in the Swedish harbor.

Were they there for proud display only, or did they foreshadow trouble?

One knew not, but the sight was most impressive.

Two smiling lads—elders I mean, who nevertheless looked like lads—Forsberg and Larsen by name, were waiting for our boat to land at Gothenburg.

They escorted us to the modest conference home and assisted nobly in sharing its responsibilities with good old Branch President August Hedberg, who cannot speak or understand English.

Following the public session that evening, and the subsequent Priesthood and Relief Society meetings, we were privileged to greet the members of that splendid little branch, and with the magic that is wrought by the gospel spirit they at once ceased to be strangers and were transformed into friends.

An early missionary meeting next morning, a short car ride through the streets of that interesting old city, another of the inevitable farewells that always seem to come too soon, and we were once more speeding on our journey, this time to the nation's capital, Stockholm.

A nine hour's ride through a country of never ending lakes and trees and flowers and rivers with a gorgeous sunset as we approached our destination, at 9:20 o'clock brought us indeed to the "end of a perfect day" so far as beautiful scenery could make it such.

We were welcomed here by President John A. Anderson and a number of his associates who were awaiting our arrival.

Our days in Stockholm were filled to the brim with activity.

While there we were the guests in the hospitable home of Brother and Sister Einer Johansen.

The comfortable chapel owned by the Church was a veritable garden of Eden, made so by its festoons of greenery, potted palms and flowering plants, and its profusion of exquisite cut flowers, bewildering in variety and color.
