[Vol51 | October 1964 | Page 777 | Lesson | Theology — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary Roy | W. Doxey]

THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants

Elder Roy W. Doxey

Lesson 60 — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary

(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 79, 80, 81, and 82)

For First Meeting, January 1965

Objective: To show individual missionary responsibility and
that the Lord is bound when you do as he says.

MISSIONARY CALLING

During the month of March 1832, revelations were received calling three elders into missionary service. (Sections 79 and 80.) Sometimes missionary calls were to specific localities, as in the case of Jared Carter who was called to serve in the eastern countries [States], while others were given a more general area of proselyting. Brothers Stephen Burnett and Eden Smith were told to go to any of the directions of the compass and labor. (D&C 80: 1-3.)

There are few callings in the Church that can compare with the missionary call. It provides opportunities to fulfill one's obligation to represent the Lord before the world; to build up Zion by increasing her citizens; to gain a better understanding of gospel fundamentals; and, at the same time, provides a foundation for a life of service at home.

The missionary who tries to honor his missionary call finds that the Lord will sustain him in his labors if he will do his part. The obtaining of the spirit of one's calling will bring the powers of the Holy Ghost to one's assistance. President John Taylor calls our attention to the missionary's calling in the following passage:

... It is for us to magnify our calling and honor our God in any and every position that we may be called upon to fill. ... I would say that this Priesthood is not for the honor of man, not for his exaltation alone; but it is imparted to man in order that he may be made the medium of salvation to others. ... Talking of the Elder, why he is a herald of salvation; he is a legate of the skies; he is commissioned of the great Jehovah to bear a message to the nations of the earth, and God has promised to

777

OCTOBER 1964

sustain him. He has always sustained His faithful Elders, and He always will (Journal of Discourses 24:35).

SUSTAINING POWER FOR MISSIONARIES

While on his mission to the Eastern States, Elder Jared Carter was joined by his brother Simeon. These two missionaries labored for a period in Bolton, New York, on the shore of Lake George. While conducting meetings in that place, they met John Tanner, a wealthy resident of the community, who had invented a wheel chair to carry himself because of an infected leg which doctors had despaired of ever healing. He had been told that he would never again be able to walk. Mr. Tanner's presence at the meeting was prompted by his desire to confound the Mormon missionaries because of their belief in the ministry of angels and The Book of Mormon. Impressed by their message, however, he invited them to his home that he might learn more about their beliefs. Mr. Tanner confessed that he was converted to their teachings, but, because of his physical condition, he could not be baptized. Whereupon, the following conversation ensued:

Elder Jared Carter said to him, "You believe in the power of the Lord to heal your leg, do you not?" Tanner said he did most assuredly.

Then Elder Carter said in a loud voice, placing his hand heavily on the shoulder of the sick man: "John Tanner, in the name of Jesus Christ I command you to rise and walk!"

The ailing man got out of his chair, but hesitated to set his lame foot on the floor.

"In the name of the Lord," said the Elder, "set down your other foot, and do not be afraid!"

Tanner set it down. It was healed!

He could walk without any difficulty—as well, in fact as he had ever done. He strode up and down the room, praising God for the miracle (Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 75, 1940, page 291).

The three men walked to the lake and Mr. Tanner was baptized. Two years later he sold his possessions in New York and moved to Kirtland, Ohio, to join the saints. Subsequently, Brother Tanner used much of his wealth to build up Zion.

One of the well-known experiences of missionary success was the record made by Elder Wilford Woodruff in the British Mission in the year 1840. While laboring in Staffordshire on his birthday, he was directed by the Holy Ghost to go south. Obedient to this inspiration, Elder Woodruff traveled to Herefordshire where he met Mr. John Benbow, a wealthy farmer, who told him that over 600 people of the "United Brethren" faith might be taught. Elder Woodruff, with the material aid of Mr. Benbow, preached to these people and, in a short time, all but one of them accepted the true Church of Jesus Christ. A further example of the sustaining power of the Holy Ghost in his ministry came about in an interesting manner. At the request of a minister, the local constable attended a meeting to arrest Brother Woodruff for preaching the gospel. While the peace officer waited, at the request of the missionary, for the end of the meeting, he became convinced of the truth delivered there and requested baptism. Two clerks of the Church of England were also sent to one of the meetings, and both of them were baptized. (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Essentials in Church His-

778

LESSON DEPARTMENT

tory, pp. 282-283.) In eight months' time, mainly through the efforts of Elder Woodruff in Herefordshire, Worcestershire, and Gloucestershire, 1800 people were brought into the Church.

PREPARATION FOR MISSIONARY SERVICE

Section 80 provides us with some ideas about preparation for missionary service. The two missionaries called by this revelation were told to "declare the things which ye have heard, and verily believe, and know to be true" (Verse 4). The successful missionary is possessed of sufficient knowledge to impart the fundamentals of the gospel to his listener. Careful preparation for the calling and function of the service to be rendered is a key to success. A necessary preparation is to live worthy to receive the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. If one has learned the gospel, the Lord will bring the necessary knowledge forth when the time is appropriate. Above everything else, the missionary should have a testimony of the restoration of the gospel and thus be able to bear record that Jesus is the Savior. In the words of Elder John A. Widtsoe:

These, then, are the steps on the way to truth: Desire, prayer, study, and practice. They form the eternal price which must be paid for truth.

This way must be found by each person for himself. Another cannot desire, pray, study, or practice in our stead and for us. Truth must be won individually (Evidences and Reconciliations, 3:84-85).

When one knows the truth of the gospel, he will not teach something that will confuse or destroy faith. He will seek to learn the truth and teach only the truth that will advance the salvation of his fellow men.

The guide to success in missionary work, in other Church teaching positions, or other callings where counsel is required, is the word given in the standard works of the Church and the instructions of the living prophets. (D&C 10:62-63.)

ORGANIZATION OF THE FIRST PRESIDENCY

It was during March 1832, that Joseph Smith received Section 81 revealing that the First Presidency should be organized. Frederick G. Williams, by this revelation, was called to be a Counselor to President Smith. One year later, March 18, 1833, the First Presidency was organized with Sidney Rigdon also serving as a Counselor. During that interim, however, these brethren assisted the Prophet. The following reason for the gradual development of the Church organization was given by President Anthon H. Lund:

... When the Church was organized on the 6th day of April, 1830, as far as we can learn there were but nine persons in the Church. Of course, with nine persons it was impossible to establish this perfect organization of the Priesthood. Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were called and ordained Apostles; but there could not be Twelve Apostles, there could not be [a quorum of] Seventy, for at that time the Church was too small. It took time for the work to grow; but the Lord had given revelation upon the subject, and when the proper time came the Presidency of the Church was organized, with the Prophet Joseph as President and Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams as his counselors. Afterwards the Twelve Apostles were chosen, and then the Seventies. But in the beginning, when

779

OCTOBER 1964

there were not enough to form these different quorums, the Elders presided, because they held the Melchizedek Priesthood. The Lord, however, had a perfect organization for His Church, and He gave it unto them when they were ready to receive it (Conference Report, November 1901, page 75).

KEYS OF THE KINGDOM

An important truth is given in verse 2 of Section 81 regarding the Presidency of the Church. Brother Williams was told that Joseph Smith, the President, had received the keys of the kingdom of God and that these powers would reside in the Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood. In August 1830, the Lord restored, for the time, when, in June of the preceding year, Peter, James and John, had conferred these keys and a dispensation of the gospel for the last time. (D&C 27:12-13.) Briefly, the keys thus restored, together with those later conferred, gave the rights, privileges, and powers necessary to carry out all of the functions of the Priesthood upon the earth. In Section 81, Brother Williams was informed that he was to counsel with the Prophet. The counselors were not to receive revelation for the Church, but they were entitled to inspiration that they might act in unison with the President on all matters which came before them.

Emphasis is given in the revelation of the need for prayer to receive the full blessings of leadership. (Verse 3.) In addition to his Presidency duties, which would also involve helping the weak and those in need (verse 5), Brother Williams was told that he should proclaim the gospel, and then he would be able to do the greatest good for his fellow

men and also for the glory of God. (Verse 4). Faithful performance of Brother Williams' calling, as is true of all Latter-day Saints, would give him a crown of eternal life in the Father's mansions. (Verse 6.)

Regardless of the office held in the kingdom, there is need for each member of the Church to do missionary work.

BACKGROUND—SECTION 82

The month before Section 82 was received, the Prophet Joseph Smith was counseled to organize the saints in Zion for their temporal benefit. (D&C 78:3-4.) Shortly after arriving at Independence, Missouri, a general council of the Church was convened, at which time the Prophet was sustained as the President of the High Priesthood to which office he was ordained on the 25th of January, 1832. During an intermission of the council, a difference between Bishop Edward Partridge and Sidney Rigdon was settled, and then the revelation recorded in Section 82 was received. The Lord recognized the settlement of this difference between the brethren and said that as they had forgiven each other, so also he would forgive them. (Ibid., 82:1.)

DEGREES OF RESPONSIBILITY

Since all mankind will be judged by the law to which they are responsible on the earth, men will vary in their responsibility to account for the deeds done in the body.

For of him unto whom much is given much is required; and he who sins against the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation (D&C 82:3).

780

LESSON DEPARTMENT

The principle that greater light and understanding bring greater responsibility, should appeal to everyone as a just principle. For example, if a person does not have an opportunity to hear the fulness of the gospel, then he should not be held to that law. It is also true that if one does have the opportunity to know the commandments of that law, and does not live them, then he should lose the blessings of living that law. Although one may learn the letter of the law, some may claim that they do not understand the necessity of complying with the commandment. What of them? Elder James E. Talmage has this informative answer:

... Such may ask: Are men to suffer penalty in the hereafter because they cannot understand what is required of them in mortality? The degree of their culpability is to be determined by the fundamental cause of their ineptitude in matters spiritual. Failure to comprehend may be due to bias or to lack of desire to know. ...

Are you unable to realize that baptism is essential to salvation? Perhaps the cause lies in the fact that you have never developed the essential condition of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; or, perchance, you have never repented of your sins. Faith and repentance, as the Scriptures aver, are prerequisites to effective baptism; and it is as unreasonable to expect a faithless unrepentant sinner to comprehend the essentiality of baptism as to expect one untrained in the rudiments of arithmetic to understand algebra.

Wilful ignorance of Gospel requirements is sin. Man is untrue to his Divine lineage and birthright of reason when he turns away from the truth, or deliberately chooses to walk in darkness while the illumined path is open to his tread. Positive rejection of the truth is even graver than passive inattention or neglect. Yet to every one is given the right of choice and the power of agency, with the certainty of his meeting the natural and inevitable consequence (Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 ed., pp. 270-271).

Latter-day Saints are more responsible before the Lord because they are under covenant by baptism, by temple ordinances, as well as by the enlightenment of the Holy Ghost. "What I say unto one I say unto all" is a truth which has application many times in these revelations. Although a truth may be spoken to one or several people, usually it is applicable to the many.

It is just as true today as in 1832 that the adversary is gaining ground and his darkness reigneth to a great degree upon the earth. (D&C 82:5.) This condition brings about this warning to the world:

And the anger of God kindleth against the inhabitants of the earth; and none doeth good, for all have gone out of the way (Verse 6).

SIN NO MORE

To the brethren in Missouri (and to all members of the Church) the Lord counseled them to sin no more, and "unto that soul who sinneth shall the former sins return" (D&C 82:7). After quoting Ezekiel, chapter 18, verse 24, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary gives this explanation:

... God forgives the repentant sinner so completely that "his transgressions shall not be mentioned unto him"; on the other hand, the righteous, who turns away from righteousness, cannot hope that his former life will save him. The principle works both ways, and is, therefore, eminently just (page 490).

781

OCTOBER 1964

TEMPORAL COMMANDMENT

As a preface to instructions regarding the brethren's mission to Missouri to manage the affairs of the poor under the order of Enoch in Kirtland, as well as Zion, the Lord set forth this truth which is similar to another oft-quoted one. (See D&C 130:20-21.)

I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (D&C 82:10).

The meaning of this passage is well known. The Lord operates the universe, his Church, and the plan of salvation, by law. When the law is observed, the blessing of that law follows.

In the operation of the law of consecration, it was intended that each person should manage his stewardship so that not only his family would profit but that the Lord's storehouse would be filled to meet every need, "Every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God" (Verse 19).

If the brethren privileged to live this high law of stewardship were to break their covenants, they "shall be dealt with according to the laws of my Church and shall be delivered over to the buffeting of Satan until the day of redemption" (Verse 21).

The brethren were also advised "and this is wisdom, make unto yourselves friends with the mammon of unrighteousness and they will not destroy you. Leave judgment alone with me for it is mine and I will repay" (Verses 22-23).

The Saints were to treat their nonmember friends with kindness, to live at peace with them, but

782

never take to their bosoms principles of unrighteousness. The gospel teaches that one should refrain from sinning and a way to accomplish this is to keep from the areas of temptation. Tolerance does not mean acceptance of principles that are contrary to the Lord's way of happiness. One can be friendly with those who do not accept Latter-day Saint standards of conduct, but tolerance is not indulgence.

SUMMARY

Four sections of the Doctrine and Covenants have made up this lesson. We have learned that the Lord gave instructions on missionary work that are applicable today; that the faithful missionary is promised the Holy Ghost to direct him in his labors; and that the powers of the Priesthood are available to the diligent. Regardless of position in the Church, no one is exempt from missionary responsibility. Finally, we learned that the powers of darkness are present on the earth and diligence in keeping the commandments is necessary. Tolerance for people not of our faith was enjoined, but tolerance does not mean acceptance of their ideas and practices which are incompatible with the covenants which the Latter-day Saint has made with God.

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. What are the benefits that can come through missionary service?

2. Tell of the progress of missionary work in England in 1840 as an example of the fulfillment of Section 79:3.

3. What is the obligation of the missionary (and the teacher in the

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Church) to teach what the Lord has revealed?

4. What is meant by the keys of the kingdom and who has the use of them?

Who receives the benefit of their use?

5. Explain what is meant by the scripture "unto whom much is given much is required."

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 60 — ". . . That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent, That Every Man May Gain Other Talents, Yea, Even an Hundred Fold . . ." (D&C 82:18).

For First Meeting, January 1965

Objective: To illustrate that as we develop the talents with which we have been blessed, our abilities will be magnified and expanded.

ONE of the misfortunes in life is the tendency of all of us to underestimate the talents and abilities with which we have been blessed. Most of us never realize nor develop, more than a fraction of our potentialities. The reason this is true, is that we fail to use and improve upon the talents with which we have been blessed. Utilizing our talents not only develops them, but also lays the foundation for the growth of additional talents. One of the great truths of life is that as we utilize, develop, and magnify our abilities, we gain the power and the strength to move on to higher and more important accomplishments. This thought from Ralph Waldo Emerson has been frequently emphasized as a tru-

ism, that as we continue in the performance of any task that task becomes easier, not because its nature has changed, but because our ability to perform it has improved. In other words, there is no doubt about the truthfulness of the statement that "practice makes perfect."

The reality and accuracy of this message from the Doctrine and Covenants, that as we improve upon our talents we gain additional talents, was realistically demonstrated in the personal experience of a certain individual. This individual had received a beautiful patriarchal blessing. Among other things, this blessing stipulated that she possessed talents which she had not adequately developed.

783

OCTOBER 1964

As the years passed the only thing this individual could remember about her blessing was this statement, and she became increasingly more worried about her failure to develop her talents. In fact, she became convinced that actually, she was blessed with very few talents.

Nevertheless, as is characteristic in the Church, opportunities came to her to serve in various Church capacities. As she discharged each of these responsibilities to the best of her ability, she found that the accomplishment of each new task made her next assignment easier. Almost unknowingly she found she had developed talents of self-expression, leadership, organizational ability, and many others she had not realized she possessed.

This is the type of challenge open to all of us. Although we may not realize it, we have all been blessed with many talents. As opportunities for service come our way we should grasp each one willingly and enthusiastically and perform each to the best of our ability. If we do so we will find ourselves developing additional abilities and, as promised in the Doctrine and Covenants, our talents will multiply, "even an hundred fold."

It is true that not all of us have great talents in some of the more glamorous areas, such as in music or in the arts. But all of us, by practice, can improve our talents of self-expression, of being better listeners, of having more understanding hearts, of being better wives, mothers, and neighbors, and of being better homemakers. We can, if we conscientiously try, improve our sensitivity in seeing the good in ourselves and others, and in discovering beauty in the commonplace things of life. Through more pleasant attitudes, we can spread more sunshine and cheerfulness to those around us.

The Savior said, "whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath" (Matt. 13:12). These words from the poem "Maud Muller" by John Greenleaf Whittier, are often quoted, "of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these, 'it might have been.'"

As we contemplate the importance of developing and multiplying our talents, let us remember that our lives stretch into eternity, and the only things we can take with us are our talents and abilities and the characters we have built through the applications and experiences of this life. Certainly it behooves each of us to magnify and expand our God-given talents.
