[Vol51 | October 1964 | Page 746 | Special Feature | They Joined the Church Because of Relief Society Maxine | T. Grimm]

They Joined the Church Because of Relief Society

Maxine T. Grimm

DOLORES Suarez was met in May 1963 by two lady missionaries, Sister Edmunds of Mapleton, Utah, and Sister Smithen of Layton, Utah, in the city of Manila, Philippine Islands, Southern Far East Mission. "We began teaching her and her family," wrote the sisters. "The eldest daughter joined the Church, but Dolores herself did not have time to attend any meetings."

Then the lady missionaries organized a small neighborhood Relief Society. They made special invitations which they handed out, announced the meetings in regular services, contacted other missionaries in the area for interested women, and made visits to their own contacts to be sure that everyone would feel welcome.

A program was carefully planned to outline the history, duties, and responsibilities of Relief Society, and to explain the weekly lessons. Articles made by Relief Society members in the United States were brought by Sister Maxine Grimm to show the many skills taught in work meetings. She also brought an old pump organ she had used during the war to accompany Latter-day Saint servicemen for their meetings in New Guinea and the Philippines. This, plus borrowed chairs, made a temporary start in the home of the two lady missionaries, but it was an important beginning. They had covered one entire wall of the room with pictures, articles, and pamphlets showing the activities of all of the auxiliaries of the Church. Extra Relief Society Magazines were ready to be given out after this valuable Magazine had been shown to them.

Twenty-five women arrived, and one man, who seemed a bit uncomfortable with all of the women, but remained until the end. Punch and cookies were served after the meeting, questions were answered, and invitations extended for the following week. Dolores Suarez attended this next meeting and seemed to take more interest.

The following week the sisters began a training program. They taught all of those attending, the principles of leading the singing. Each used a bamboo baton to help her get the real spirit of conducting. Sister Suarez led one song by herself the following week and did well. The next week she conducted. At this meeting all the women present, over half of them nonmembers, bore their testimonies. Dolores Suarez, in bearing hers, showed deep emotion and sincerity.

Dolores Magpayo Suarez was baptized September 14, 1963. The only meetings she had attended were Relief Society meetings.

"Sister Suarez now attends every single meeting she possibly

746

[MAP: Philippine Islands]

can," write the sisters. "She has many activities, and is a counselor to the Manila Branch Relief Society president, which makes her sort of 'President' of our department Relief Society in San Juan. She is a great strength to her own family, to us missionaries, and to other members. Her husband has joined the Church, and is the same way."

They have eight children. They are both active in civic affairs, also. Sister Suarez is on the district Girl Scout Council and very active in that position — and very well loved and respected. She is one of the officers of a new committee in Quezon City designed to help the youth by giving them good activities and opportunities for leadership. She is active in politics, having been on the election committee as a registrar. She has a lovely voice; formerly, she sang on radio. Here, then, is a valuable Church member, who gained her testimony through Relief Society.

* * * * * *

THE Relief Society brought me into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," Rosalina Agana Honrado says. She began attending the dependent Relief Society of the Manila Branch, Philippine Islands, Southern Far East Mission, with her neighbor Sister Salud Jamenez. Two lady missionaries, Sister Edmunds and Sister Smithen, had been teaching two of Mrs. Honrado's nephews, but she had never heard any of the lessons.

Mrs. Honrado was given an opportunity in Relief Society meeting to pray, lead singing, and conduct the music, just as are the other members of Relief Society, whether they are members of the Church or not. She gave a strong testimony during the testimony meeting.

Rosalina Agana Honrado asked to be baptized after attending only Relief Society meetings, without any lessons from the missionaries and without attending any other meetings. She obtained a testimony of the gospel through Relief Society. The two missionary sisters gave her the necessary lessons before she was baptized. Her nephews were baptized, and her daughter and a niece will soon join the Church.

Sister Honrado is very active in the Church, is very humble, and is a good Latter-day Saint.

The missionaries write: "Our thanks for the Relief Society program and the tremendous lessons and possibilities for fellowshiping people."

747
