[Vol51 | October 1964 | Page 770 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]

Notes FROM THE FIELD

General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker

Relief Society Activities

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Butte Stake (Montana), Dillon Ward Anniversary Program
March 17, 1964

Children, seated in front: Christy Wright, Robin Wright, and Deanne Wright.

Front row, seated, left to right: Peggy S. Oliphant; Verla R. Boetticher; Martha Childs; Isabella M. Hartwig; June W. Jones; Lucille B. Swartz; Glenna May G. Morrison.

Standing, left to right: Elder Walter Swartz; Bishop Raymond Curtis; Elder Kenneth Morrison; Elder Larry Chaffin; Greta Chaffin; Sylvia Ricks; Jerene Curtis; Emma Nygren; Margaret G. Park; Fay B. Nelson; Lavina Smith; Bea Stokes; Lola Farnsworth; Verla Lovell.

Harriet S. Palmer, President, Butte Stake Relief Society, reports: "On March 17th we had our annual Relief Society anniversary party, which was a huge success. 'Pattern for Living; Toward Ideal Womanhood' was the theme for the occasion. The dinner tables, which marked places for nearly one hundred, were resplendent in spring and Easter motifs. A large three-tiered birthday cake, baked and decorated by Delma Fueseezar, was displayed on a large mirrored tray. Reminiscent of many springs past, the Singing Mothers chorus captivated the audience, wearing originally designed bonnets in styles of the past, present, and future. An original tribute honoring the visiting teachers was written and read by Ruth Graves. A skit 'History in the Making' was directed by Fay Nelson as the concluding number. It depicted the first organization of the Society. Lavina Smith provided background music."

770

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Ben Lomond Stake (Ogden, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert
February 27, 1964

The chorister Wanda G. Chatelain stands at the right on the first row; back of Sister Chatelain, at the end of the second row, are members of the stake Relief Society presidency, left to right, third from end: First Counselor Doris H. Berrett; President Marvel M. Young; Second Counselor Eunice J. Hadley; standing fifth from the left on the first row is Lettice O. Rich who wrote the narration for the concert.

Sister Young reports: "The opening of the concert was heralded by four trumpeters, after which the smooth-flowing narration was begun. The outstanding lighting effects which made the concert live in the eyes and minds of the audience were made possible by LaMont Wall, a counselor in the bishopric of the Pleasant View Second Ward of our stake.

"The Singing Mothers sang 'Peace I Leave With You,' 'Calvary,' 'Let Not Your Song End,' 'Prairie Lullaby,' and 'Eternal Life.' They were joined by our guests, the Southern Pacific Male Choir, under the direction of Owen Rouse, for 'This Is My Country,' and the grand finale 'Battle Hymn of the Republic.' Other special guest artists were the Evans Quartet, International Quartet Champions, and Wayne Devereaux, whose outstanding organ solo was 'Allegro' from the Second Concerto by Handel, a special Singing Mothers double trio, and an outstanding brass ensemble from Weber High School. The evening was truly a memorable one for the Ben Lomond Stake."

771

OCTOBER 1964

Winter Quarters Stake (Nebraska) Relief Society Achievement Day
May 2, 1964

Second row, seated (back of the children), left to right: Beverly Nye, Magazine representative; Afton Hardy, Education Counselor; Evelyn Doty, Secretary-Treasurer; Joyce Wakefield, social science class leader; Blanche Rawlings, President; Delores Alred, Work Director Counselor.

Sister Rawlings reports: "The Winter Quarters Stake Relief Society sponsored an 'Achievement Day.' A program and the film 'The Awakening' were enjoyed in the morning, and a luncheon was served at noon. In the afternoon a fashion show was presented by the ward and branch Relief Societies. The sisters and their children modeled the clothing they had made during the winter. A fine display of bazaar items was shown. Approximately one hundred attended, and the success was most gratifying. Winter Quarters Stake is three years old, and there are six wards and six branches."

Berlin Stake (Western Germany) Relief Society Singing Mothers
Present Music for Quarterly Conference
March 22, 1964

Seated, fourth from the right in the front row: Mary R. Young, member of the General Board of Relief Society; second from Sister Young, on the left: Else Durr, President, Berlin Stake Relief Society; Ilse Thiede, organist, stands in the second row at the right; Jean A. Jensen, chorister, stands in the front row, fifth from the right; Sarah L. Johnson of the General Board of the Primary Association, front row, third from the right; Counselor Else Buechereite, stands in the last row, second from the right; Frieda Pflugardt, Secretary-Treasurer, stands in the back row, first on the left.

Sister Durr reports that this conference was a joyful and spiritually uplifting occasion. The German Relief Society sisters were delighted to meet Sister Young and to associate with her during the conference sessions. "The numbers presented by the Singing Mothers were beautifully rendered and well received. This was an outstanding accomplishment, considering the difficulties of distance and transportation."

University West Stake (Utah) Honors Officers, Visiting Teachers,
and Class Leaders at Luncheon, May 2, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: Carrie M. Linford; Lila D. Harrison; Isabel D. McGregor; Camilla E. Kimball.

Back row, standing, left to right: Evoline M. Riding; Agnes R. Frazer; Esther M. Tidwell; Edyth J. Romney, Secretary-Treasurer, University West Stake Relief Society; Annie M. Ballantyne, President; Sara M. Creer, First Counselor; Gyneth E. Hunter, Second Counselor.

Sister Ballantyne reports: "The University West Stake Relief Society Board honored with a luncheon and program all the ward officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers of the stake on May 2, 1964. There were 240 in attendance, including special guests Camilla Eyring Kimball; Stake President Lamont Peterson and his Counselors Milton G. Thackeray and Merrill G. Wood; and Stake High Council Advisor to Relief Society Thomas B. Montgomery. At a meeting following the luncheon, Sister Kimball related some of her experiences visiting Relief Society organizations in different parts of the world and displayed some articles produced by them.

"Of the visiting teachers present, six had served for fifty years or more: Carrie Merrill Linford, West Twelfth Ward, fifty-two years; Lila Dansie Harrison, North Thirteenth Ward, fifty-two years; Isabel Durham McGregor, West Twelfth Ward, sixty years; Evoline Mann Riding, West Twelfth Ward, fifty-two years; Agnes Rufi Frazer, West Eleventh Ward, fifty years; Esther Milner Tidwell, East Twelfth Ward, fifty-one years."

772

[PHOTOGRAPH - Top image shows a large group of women in white clothing arranged in rows, appears to be in a church or meeting hall setting]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Middle image shows a smaller group of women in white uniforms or clothing, seated in rows]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Bottom image shows a smaller group of women, some seated and some standing, in what appears to be an indoor setting]

OCTOBER 1964

Reno Stake (Nevada), Fallon Ward Visiting Teachers Achieve One Hundred Per Cent Visiting for Five Years
February 7, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: Jan Larsen, former president; stake officers: Alta Darney, Secretary-Treasurer; Blanche Richards, First Counselor; Louise L. Bell, President; Dorothea Folsom, Second Counselor; Golden Hyde, Bishop of Fallon Ward; ward officers: June Miller, First Counselor; Flora Miller, President; Jane Joedeman, Second Counselor; Thora Hendrix, Secretary-Treasurer; Wilmuth Crook, former president.

Sister Bell reports: "The Reno Stake is proud of the Fallon Ward for achieving one hundred per cent visiting teaching for the last five years. The ward officers held a party honoring the visiting teachers. A luncheon was served, and the program 'A Light Shining' was presented. This one hundred per cent record was attained under three presidents."

Utah Stake Honors Relief Society Secretary-Treasurers
April 23, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: LaRee Adamson; Louise Cardall, Secretary-Treasurer, Utah Stake Relief Society; Ethel Bills.

Back row, standing, left to right: Nadine Tuft; Norma Snow; Phyllis Jacobson; Geraldine Bastian; Afton Halvorson.

Nellie R. Mecham, President, Utah Stake Relief Society, reports: "We had a lovely social honoring our secretary-treasurers. All of the sisters in the stake were invited and encouraged to bring a friend, including our Latter-day Saint sisters. Effie Pinegar of the stake board wrote and read a lovely tribute to our secretary-treasurers, after which each one was presented with a beautiful hand-crocheted handkerchief. The Singing Mothers of the University Ward, under the direction of Ethelynn Mangum and Louise Wakefield, furnished music for the occasion. Two film strips: 'A Record Shall Be Kept' and 'The Awakening' were enjoyed. Between the film strips, Clair Johnson favored us with a lovely vocal solo. After the closing prayer, light refreshments were served."

West Mexican Mission, Hermosillo Branch Relief Society Entertains at Farewell Dinner for President and Sister Turley, July 3, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: Maclovia de Montoya, First Counselor; Francisca de Ruiz, Second Counselor Concepcion de Ibarra; Mercedes Vda. de Graham; Elisa de Guajardo; Santiaga de Castelum, President; Ireta P. Turley, former Supervisor, West Mexican Mission Relief Society; Socorro de Aquilar; Abigail de Pineda, Secretary-Treasurer; Marie de Jesus de Navarro; Dolores de Sevallos.

Back row, standing, left to right: Dolores de Ortega; Abel Montoya, President, Hermosillo Branch; Virgilio Guajardo; Roberto Gastelum and child; Harold E. Turley, former President, West Mexican Mission; Mauro Aquilar, Second Counselor; Carlos Pineda.

The officers and teachers of the Hermosillo Branch Relief Society gave a farewell dinner for the outgoing mission president Harold E. Turley and his wife Ireta P. Turley. Following a short program, the Turleys were presented with a lovely hand-embroidered tablecloth made by the sisters of the Relief Society. It was given as a gift of appreciation and love to the Turleys for their help and kindness while serving in the mission.

The new Mission Relief Society supervisor is Retha S. Turley.

774

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group photo of women in multiple rows, appears to be from mid-20th century]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Smaller group photo of 8 women arranged in two rows, 5 standing in back, 3 seated in front]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Group photo showing multiple people including men, women and children in what appears to be an informal gathering]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

North Idaho Falls Stake, Seventeenth Ward "Friendship Day"
April 1, 1964

Mary L. Wilding, President, North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports that the picture represents the center decoration of the hall and shows Donna Cramer displaying a picture which she has made.

"April first will long be remembered in the hearts of the sisters of the Seventeenth Ward as they, their friends, and neighbors attended our 'Friendship Social.' 'April Showers' was an appropriate theme, as one entered the building from the falling rain outside. A small pink or yellow name tag in the shape of an umbrella was presented at the door to each sister.

"Following the invocation by Bishop Lynn Nelson, the Singing Mothers beautifully rendered the song 'April Showers.' The original words of the second verse by Laura A. Passey, President, Idaho Falls Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, were written to portray the spirit of Relief Society, and to invite the new sisters to join our happy throng.

"The theme 'April Showers' was carried out in the decorations. In the center of the hall, suspended from the ceiling, was a large, twenty-foot wide and fifteen-foot high umbrella, trimmed with pink net and yellow plastic. Beneath the umbrella, were eight tables arranged in an octagon figure which displayed food demonstrations of potato croquettes, tomato fritters, apple fritters, applets, and pan-fried cookies. Samples were given throughout the evening to those present. The arts of hat making, sewing, cake decorating, and ribbon flowers were also demonstrated.

"Encircling one half of the hall were tables representing visiting teaching, The Relief Society Magazine, the music department, social science, literature, theology, and arts and crafts, as well as home management and sewing. These tables were draped with green and yellow plastic. Each class leader developed her own ideas to represent her lesson department. The spirit of Relief Society was felt as one studied the table displays. There was a table display depicting the history of Relief Society, and a large decorated cake representing the birthday of the 122 years of the Relief Society organization.

"Those present were served a lovely luncheon on small tables spaced along one side of the hall. These tables were decorated with white cloths and miniature umbrella centerpieces trimmed in pink, green, and yellow net. The Priesthood members were invited, and special invitations of small pink umbrellas were delivered to the sisters by the ward visiting teachers. There were over 125 who attended. Our objective was to shower the sisters with the opportunities Relief Society has to offer to them. We feel this was accomplished by the comments and appreciation expressed by those present. The lovely evening, filled with renewed friendship and love, concluded with the Singing Mothers presenting 'A Sister's Prayer.' "

776

Lesson Department

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with short hair holding a book and gesturing with her hand]
