[Vol51 | October 1964 | Page 783 | Lesson | Visiting C hTreiascthienre MH.e s sRaogbei n s—o n "That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent" | ]
[Visiting C hTreiascthienre MH.e s sRaogbei n s—o n "That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent"]

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Church) to teach what the Lord has revealed?

4. What is meant by the keys of the kingdom and who has the use of them?

Who receives the benefit of their use?

5. Explain what is meant by the scripture "unto whom much is given much is required."

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 60 — ". . . That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent, That Every Man May Gain Other Talents, Yea, Even an Hundred Fold . . ." (D&C 82:18).

For First Meeting, January 1965

Objective: To illustrate that as we develop the talents with which we have been blessed, our abilities will be magnified and expanded.

ONE of the misfortunes in life is the tendency of all of us to underestimate the talents and abilities with which we have been blessed. Most of us never realize nor develop, more than a fraction of our potentialities. The reason this is true, is that we fail to use and improve upon the talents with which we have been blessed. Utilizing our talents not only develops them, but also lays the foundation for the growth of additional talents. One of the great truths of life is that as we utilize, develop, and magnify our abilities, we gain the power and the strength to move on to higher and more important accomplishments. This thought from Ralph Waldo Emerson has been frequently emphasized as a tru-

ism, that as we continue in the performance of any task that task becomes easier, not because its nature has changed, but because our ability to perform it has improved. In other words, there is no doubt about the truthfulness of the statement that "practice makes perfect."

The reality and accuracy of this message from the Doctrine and Covenants, that as we improve upon our talents we gain additional talents, was realistically demonstrated in the personal experience of a certain individual. This individual had received a beautiful patriarchal blessing. Among other things, this blessing stipulated that she possessed talents which she had not adequately developed.

783

OCTOBER 1964

As the years passed the only thing this individual could remember about her blessing was this statement, and she became increasingly more worried about her failure to develop her talents. In fact, she became convinced that actually, she was blessed with very few talents.

Nevertheless, as is characteristic in the Church, opportunities came to her to serve in various Church capacities. As she discharged each of these responsibilities to the best of her ability, she found that the accomplishment of each new task made her next assignment easier. Almost unknowingly she found she had developed talents of self-expression, leadership, organizational ability, and many others she had not realized she possessed.

This is the type of challenge open to all of us. Although we may not realize it, we have all been blessed with many talents. As opportunities for service come our way we should grasp each one willingly and enthusiastically and perform each to the best of our ability. If we do so we will find ourselves developing additional abilities and, as promised in the Doctrine and Covenants, our talents will multiply, "even an hundred fold."

It is true that not all of us have great talents in some of the more glamorous areas, such as in music or in the arts. But all of us, by practice, can improve our talents of self-expression, of being better listeners, of having more understanding hearts, of being better wives, mothers, and neighbors, and of being better homemakers. We can, if we conscientiously try, improve our sensitivity in seeing the good in ourselves and others, and in discovering beauty in the commonplace things of life. Through more pleasant attitudes, we can spread more sunshine and cheerfulness to those around us.

The Savior said, "whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath" (Matt. 13:12). These words from the poem "Maud Muller" by John Greenleaf Whittier, are often quoted, "of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these, 'it might have been.'"

As we contemplate the importance of developing and multiplying our talents, let us remember that our lives stretch into eternity, and the only things we can take with us are our talents and abilities and the characters we have built through the applications and experiences of this life. Certainly it behooves each of us to magnify and expand our God-given talents.

WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life

The Work Meeting Lesson for January 1965 will appear in a later issue of the Magazine.

784
