[Vol51 | October 1964 | Page 755 | Home | Blessed Autumn Dorothy | J. Smith]

Blessed Autumn

Dorothy J. Smith

LOOKING out my window I see the signs of a declining year. The shades of golden brown, yellow, and mixed green hues of autumn make me sigh, not a sigh of sorrow, but of relief.

The busy year is nearing its close. Children have been home all summer with their noise and activity that go with the hot sultry days. Now they are back in school. The canning is nearly all done. The satisfaction that comes with knowing that you have provided for your family gives you a feeling of comfort. The rows of fruits and vegetables, with the red of berries, beets, and jam, the yellow and green of vegetables lend to the joy of accomplishment.

Winter is a time of comparative rest, and we have a short time to prepare ourselves for another season.

The unbroken white blanket of snow on the fields is a restful sight to the eye, and to the spirit. Man is reminded that God is a merciful God. He gives all living things a time to rest, to rejuvenate, and to start over again. He has seen the necessity of rest and quiet.

The soul needs a time to evaluate the meaning of its purpose, to look back and be proud, and have a chance to start again and be more perfect and bloom in the rebirth of spring. We grow through the busy months of summer and prepare for a time to rest and be quiet in the autumn of life.

God, with his supreme wisdom, knows that man needs a time to sit back and enjoy the blessings of life and be thankful that Heavenly Father saw fit to let us take part in his plan in the seasons of life.

Autumn, then, to me is a time of thanks, of quiet and rest. Blessed is autumn.

755

Tiny
Sewing
Kit *Shirley Thulin*

[ILLUSTRATION]

HAVE you ever been caught without a needle and thread or even a pin handy when you needed it most? Here is a clever and handy little homemade sewing kit to carry with you to prevent being caught unprepared.

Take an old lipstick tube and clean it thoroughly. This is easy to do if you use cleaning tissue and roll it into a tube to wipe out the inside of the lipstick tube.

Now use your pinking shears to cut a piece of flannel as wide as the lipstick tube and about two to three inches long. You can pin several tiny safety pins, two or three needles, and two or three straight pins in a row on the cloth.

Take three or four toothpicks and break them off if they are a bit too long to fit in the tube. Wind a different color thread on each toothpick, using white, black, and perhaps a color nearest to the shade of the garment you usually wear.

Make a little split at each top of the toothpick to catch the end of the thread so that it won't unravel. Now place the toothpicks parallel to the needle and pins on the cloth and roll them all up as tiny as you can and the roll will fit right into the lipstick tube. Slip the lid on and you have a handy little kit that takes up practically no room at all.

756

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Celia Willden Jensen -
