[Vol51 | October 1964 | Page 750 | General Feature | Editorial: Refinement in Relief Society Activities Louise | W. Madsen]
[Editorial: Refinement in Relief Society Activities Louise W. Madsen]

EDITORIAL

ONE thinks of refinement as a process which eliminates the dross and leaves that which is pure; as the polishing agent that removes the tarnish and brings out the patina of beauty; as the gentle abrasive which smooths away defects to bring about perfection. Refinement is a continuing action which when applied to human lives involves activities, associations, experiences, and decisions.

Activity in Relief Society adds a luster of refinement to the lives of women. It provides for them a schooling in spiritual, cultural, and practical matters which serves to eliminate less productive activities. A polish is added to the natural talents of women when these talents are used to beautify the world around them. Striving for perfection, accepting the highest standards of performance, shunning unrighteousness are all refining influences of Relief Society.

There is refinement in being close to the Lord, in learning his word, studying his life and teachings, and giving oneself to doing the will of the Father.

There is refinement in association with others of high ideals and practices. The example of high-minded women is a guide and a goal. Truly one's manner of living and actions have effect upon the lives of others.

There is refinement in selflessness, in forgetting oneself in the service of others. An expression of loving kindness blesses the giver

Volume 51   October 1964   Number 10

• Belle S. Spafford, President
• Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
• Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
• Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer

Refinement in Relief Society Activities

as well as the recipient. Nothing brings more joy than the exercise of compassion or the achievement of empathy.

There is refinement in activity using one's talents, not allowing them to diminish because they are not used, nor placidly accepting mediocrity when much more is possible. Talents are gifts from heaven to be used for more abundant personal living as well as to bring joy to others.

There is refinement in increasing one's skills, discovering aptitudes, enlarging abilities, being actively engaged in uplifting study and work. The admonition to avoid idleness, to shun its enticements finds acceptance in the work of Relief Society.

There is refinement in achieving greater success in being a better homemaker, a more devoted wife and mother. Families are the beneficiaries of the mother's increased desire to bring love and security to her home, creating an atmosphere conducive to peace and happiness.

There is refinement in accepting responsibility and discharging this responsibility to the best of one's ability. Nothing enlarges one's vision so greatly as having others depend upon one for leadership — wise, inspiring leadership. Teaching one another is one of the important responsibilities.

That his daughters might have all of these blessings and opportunities, the Lord caused Relief Society to be established.

—L. W. M.

Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Florence J. Madsen
Leone S. Layton
Blanche B. Stoddard
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Josie B. Ray
Alberta H. Christensen
Mildred B. Eyring
Edith P. Backman
Winniefred S. Manwaring

Elna P. Haymond
Mary R. Young
Mary V. Cameron
Afton W. Hunt
Wealtha S. Mendenhall
Elsa T. Peterson
Fanny S. Kienitz
Elizabeth B. Winters
Virtue H. Rosell
Jennie R. Scott
Alice L. Wilkinson
Irene W. Buehner

Irene C. Lloyd
Hazel S. Love
Fawn H. Sharp
Celestia J. Taylor
Anne R. Gledhill
Belva B. Ashton
Zola J. McGhie
Oa J. Cannon
Lila B. Walch
Lenore C. Gundersen
Marjorie C. Pingree
Darlene C. Dedekind
Cleone R. Eccles
