[Vol56 | November 1969 | Page 864 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message— Weak Things May Become Strong Alice | Colton Smith]
[his]

to the home of Colonel Watkins. He answered her knock, looking just as ill as Martin had said, his military bearing gone and his blue eyes clouded. After making apologies and explanations on Martin's behalf, Jean went on, "I wondered if I could get you anything? My son said that you are ill."

"No, thank you. I can manage," he answered gruffly.

"Well maybe I could send you some lunch over with one of my boys?" Jean asked hesitantly, "or some hot lemon? You look as if you have caught flu."

"Oh, you might as well come in," he said grudgingly, holding the door open for her, and followed her in to sink into a deep chair by the low fire.

"Must apologize," he grunted. "My daily woman is ill. Tried to do a bit but had to give up. Flu, as you said."

Jean took off her coat and began to tidy up, her eyes softened as she glanced at the old man. He seemed more human today, all the fire gone out of him.

"I must go now." She roused him gently. "I'll send some broth over. Try to take some, it will make you feel better, and I'll call around later."

Next morning John and Martin accompanied Jean to visit the colonel. As John cleaned out the old-fashioned hearth, Martin chopped sticks outside to light the fire. Jean tidied up and dusted while the old man watched.

"I had a son," he said suddenly. Jean turned as John looked up. "Is he grown up now, Sir?" he asked.

"No," answered the colonel sadly, "he was killed during the last war. He was only twenty-two, and the shock made my wife so ill she died not long after. He was our only child."

"Oh, my dear, I am sorry." Jean went and knelt by the chair, suddenly understanding the colonel's sternness and apparent dislike of children. He was nursing a broken heart.

"What he must have suffered, living alone all these years," Jean told Steve that evening, "gradually being left all alone with his grief. I'm not surprised he became grim and hard."

Within a few days all the family were visiting the colonel, including Trub, who, most of the time, liked to lie with just the tip of his nose upon the old man's slipper. The colonel was much better and seemed to enjoy watching the boys help tidy up.

"I'm sorry Trub wandered into your garden and made a nuisance of himself," Martin said one morning, as the colonel was watching the tidy-up operation. "You know he is really a bad dog, Sir," Martin continued earnestly, "he only needs understanding."

"I'm sure that's all he needs," replied the old man, trying to keep a straight face.

"You see he wasn't really our dog," Martin went on. "He just came one day and stayed. He didn't have anyone to love him so we adopted him."

The colonel laughed. "I'm sure you never could have bought such a handsome looking creature. He would have been far too expensive."

830

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of an elderly man sitting in a large armchair with a dog lying at his feet]

"Mum, I have an idea." John turned suddenly to his mother. "Why don't we adopt Colonel Watkins as our Grandpa, if he will let us? We have only one and he lives a long way from us, and the colonel is all alone."

They all looked at the old man inquiringly. Suddenly he had turned rather red. His cold had come back it appeared as he blew hard into his handkerchief.

"And you will be our very own Grandpa, and tell us stories?" Peter's voice was shrill with delight. "Oh, boy!"

Trub, hearing the excited chatter, came bounding into the room to investigate, skidded to a halt by the colonel's chair, and laid a large paw on his knee.

"It seems that even Trub agrees," laughed the old man

with misty eyes. "Good old Trub, for without him, we might never have become friendly. With four mischievous boys and a delinquent dog, I'm certainly going to have my work cut out.

"Yes," he continued more seriously. "I would like to be your Grandpa and I'll never forget the honor you have paid me today. I only wish my dear wife was here beside me to have a second chance at happiness."

"That's settled, then," Jean said briskly, with a slight sniff. "Come on, chaps, there's work to be done and Grandpa's fire is burning low."

They all laughed, and with a contented sigh Colonel Watkins settled further down into his chair with Trub stretched out at his feet.

831
