[Vol56 | November 1969 | Page 834 | General Feature | "Look To This Day" Nona | H. Brown]
books have been written, some of the finest paintings painted, some of the most wonderful inventions worked out by people well along in years, or seriously handicapped, or both. Milton was past fifty and blind when he sat down to complete his world famous epic. Benjamin Franklin was past fifty when he started the study of science and philosophy. Michelangelo said, "Yet I am learning," when he was past seventy. He finished the huge painting called the "Last Judgment" in the Sistine Chapel when he was sixty-six and was working on his plans for St. Peter's Church when he was a very old man. He died at eighty-nine. Tennyson wrote his favorite poem, "Crossing the Bar" when he was eight-one. We can always do something worthwhile, no matter what our age or condition. If you are feeling sorry because you have hurt someone's feelings, apologize and forget it, and then start doing something that will make that person unusually happy. There is the familiar story about the man who was branded with a cruel ST in his forehead. He was a sheep thief. He devoted the rest of his life to making restitution for his sin. Years later when someone asked what those letters on the forehead stood for, a man answered, "I don't know, but I think it must stand for saint, for he is surely a saint!". If we have done some wrong in the past, we can do many good things if we "Look to this day." 833 vy, Edythe K. Watson Member, @ The Christmas season is just around the corner, bringing with it excitement, happiness, memories, traditions, caring, sharing, loving, and gift giving. What a lovely custom the giving of gifts can be, how beautiful the event it symbolizes, but are we somehow losing sight of its true significance? Unfortunately for some people, Christmas with its gift giving has become a time of frustration, of mental, physical, and financial strain, rather than a joyous time of family fun, traditions, peace, and good will. Gifts of themselves are not important, it is the desire to give that counts. Christmas should be a time to think of others, to draw close to friends 834 General Board of Relief Society ard family, to be mindful of those less fortunate than we, to give of our selves.

["Look To This Day" Nona H. Brown]

Are we as mothers making lasting lovely memories for our children, establishing traditions, by teaching them by precept and example the joy of giving of themselves? My husband remembers with pleasure and a tear in his eye the thrill he felt as a young boy sharing gifts from his mother's lovely kitchen, carrying in his little red wagon bottled fruit, jams, jellies, fruitcake or homemade breads to the needy in his neighborhood. Our children contend that the happiest Christmas they remember was the year we joined with my sister's family in preparing Christmas carols; then, following Church service on Christmas Eve, going to the homes of neighbors, family, friends, and some who were homebound, caroling our hearts out. Our children do not remember the gifts they received that year, but they do remember the joy of giving of themselves. One mother's gifts to her family are beautiful hand-knit Christmas socks, every one with the name of a family member boldly knitted into its heading. A priceless gift, a treasured tradition. The mother made the first socks many years ago when her oldest children were tiny tots.