[Vol56 | November 1969 | Page 810 | Special Feature | If It's Right We Can Do It | Belle S. Spafford]
[If It's Right We Can Do It Belle S. Spafford]

The Savior taught us that the first and second great commandments are love of God and love of neighbor. When the sisters assembled at the invitation of the Prophet Joseph Smith on March 17, 1842 810 to be organized under the priesthood, there was some difference of opinion as to what the organization should be named, but there was no difference as to its purpose. The brethren present seemed to incline to the name benevolent, but the sisters preferred the name relief, and so it was named The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. The idea of charity was fundamental in its concept. The Prophet Joseph declared: This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. (DHC IV, 605.) Relief Society today offers all Latter-day Saint women a situation in which they can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in their bosoms. In passing we might remind the sisters of the Church, however, that nearly half of the Latter-day Saint women are not taking advantage of that situation. This is unfortunate. Relief Society members, however, are grasping the opportunity to express their feelings of charity and benevolence. No call made on Relief Society for benevolence goes unanswered. Recently in a small gathering, one of the sisters remarked on the great number of women in her stake who were being left widows. She concluded, 'They surely must need a lot of good men on the other side." Sister Spafford spoke up quickly, "They ~ need a lot of good women here— Relief Society women. In this disturbed world, fine, good, charitable women are needed or what would happen to the world?" We do need charitable women throughout the world and in our wards and branches. As individual Relief Society members we may fittingly question ourselves as to the extent of our personal charity. Should the Savior come tomorrow, would we all feel that we truly represented our motto "Charity Never Faileth'? If we do not feel satisfied with our accomplishments (and who ever does?) the four gospels and 3 Nephi give us innumerable examples of the charity of the Savior. He helps us to acquire characteristics we lack to minister to needs in a spirit of charity. We need to search out our true motives for in exercising charity it is not only the deed, but more important the intent.

It's Right We Can Do It President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] @ It has been said that "we look back in order that we may go better forward." Today I would like to turn back the pages of history for a few moments to the year 1842—twelve years after the organization of the Church; the year in which Relief Society was founded in Nauvoo, _ Illinois, through revelation given by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith. According to research done by Fay Tarlock, the Honorable John Tyler, an able and independent Whig from Virginia, was President of the United States. It was the day of Stephen A. Douglas, a fiery orator and leading political figure and, at that time, a friend of the Mormons. It was the day when Abraham Lincoln, a promising young lawyer from Illinois and a rising politician, was looking forward to his marriage to the charming and ambitious Mary Todd. It was the year of the establishment of the 804 se x } a 4 ] boundary line between the United States and Canada, a line that has defined territory, but never restricted neighborliness. Nauvoo was a western frontier town, a part of a vast new America reaching ever further out to the West. Oregon and California were exciting words, although as yet no wagon train had passed beyond the Rockies. The city of Nauvoo was only three years old, but it was a thriving city with sturdy twostory houses of brick and frame, with churches and stores, and a university. The rising structure of a temple enlisted with rare dedication the interest and the labors of the populace. At the busy harbor of the river's bend, boats from down the river came to anchor, bringing hundreds of converts from the Old World. It was at this growing, happy period of time for the saints that the Prophet Joseph Smith, on March 17, in meeting assembled with Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards and eighteen sisters, uttered these "long to be remembered words" that initiated a new day for Latter-day Saint women and, indeed, for all womankind: I now declare this Society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usages—and all who shall hereafter be admitted to this Society must be free from censure and be received by vote. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 15.) Elder John Taylor addressed the assembly on that memorable occasion, saying that he "rejoiced to see the institution organized according to the law of Heaven." The law of heaven is divine law. In this, Relief Society differs from all other woman's organizations of the world. (I use the term "woman" as defined in the dictionary, meaning "mature females.'') On the eventful day of the Society's founding, an open Bible lay on the pulpit of the historic room. The following words were found written on a scrap of paper lying on the open Bible: "Oh, Lord, help our widows and fatherless children! So mote it be, Amen. With the sword and the word of truth defend thou them, so mote it be! Amen." With gratitude and dedication, the members of the newly formed Society moved into the work defined for it and as guided by the Prophet, defending' the widows and fatherless children, nursing the sick, finding employment for those with such need, feeding the hungry, comforting the sorrowing, clothing the naked. At thesame time, the young organization looked to the rightIf It's Right We Can Do It eousness of the individual lives of the sisters, and the Prophet admonished the sisters with regard to their duties to their husbands. Counselor Whitney cautioned the sisters "to avoid all evil, even the appearance of evil." She urged them to "pray for one another that they might succeed in the work before them and have wisdom given them in all their pursuits." (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 16.) The Prophet instructed them: Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 16.) The prayers of the sisters were answered and their efforts were blessed. The Prophet, meeting with them in the summer of 1842, said, "I have come here to bless you. The Society have done well: their principles are to practice holiness. God loves you, and your prayers in my behalf shall avail much " (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 17.) Following the Nauvoo period, the sisters in true companionship with the priesthood entered upon the path of religious empirefounding in the heart of the Rocky Mountains, and they 'were vigorous in the promotion of righteousness according to revealed truth. Their teachings were not merely admonitions, they were continuous Christian practice. 

805 November 1969

 As we look back over their labors, even to the present time, a divinely guided drama of selfless service unfolds, revealing the strength of the sisters born of faith and testimony, and the power of the organization as it functions according to the law of heaven. A small sampling of activities will serve to illustrate the obedience, the intensity of devotion, the spirit of love and service that characterized efforts and led to almost unbelievable accomplishment. In September 1876, President Brigham Young gave to Sister Emmeline B. Wells the mission of leading the sisters in grain saving. Sister Wells, in a report to the members in 1915, said: ""We began that very year, and though we were laughed at, we did buy grain—the Relief Society did; I did not do it myself—the Relief Society gave money and grain was bought that year." (The Relief Society Magazine, February 1915, page 48.) The sisters garnered in the fields, sold Sunday eggs, quilts, rag carpeting, and other products of their hands to acquire the grain, disposed to do so because the spirit of the gospel bade them accept the mission in loving obedience to their great prophet, President Brigham Young. In February 1915, when Sister Wells was eighty-seven years old, prophetic tribute was paid to her by Sister Annie Wells Cannon and published in The Relief Society Magazine, from which I quote: no doubt, she will be able to see clearly through the devastating wars which are now raging in Europe, that 806 the mission which was given her, so many years ago, was not in vain. Many... Starving mothers will be rescued, no doubt, through the faithful integrity of President Emmeline B. Wells and her associated sisters in this Society, in saving grain for famine need. (The Relief Society Magazine, February 1915, page 50.) On August 18, during World War I, President Clarissa Smith Williams, writing in The Relief Society Magazine, gave evidence of the fulfillment of this prediction as follows: The Relief Society has turned over to the United States Government [at a price set by it] over two hundred thousand bushels of wheat... How proud we are to perform this service for our suffering and glorious cause. Our hearts and prayers go with the gifts which we have laid upon the altar of our country. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 72.) Today, as a praiseworthy symbol of the continuing blessing of the wheat program, there rises toward the heavens on Welfare Square a great grain elevator filled with Relief Society wheat stored against a day of need— obtained through the investment in wheat of money paid the Society by the Government in the day of war. An impressive demonstration of the unselfish spirit of sisterhood within the Society comes to us in the action of the sisters at the cessation of hostilities of World War II. A letter from a president of one of