[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | November | Issue: 6 | Title: A Pleasant Gathering | Author: Unknown]

A PLEASANT GATHERING.
	It is always a pleasure to meet, even now
and then, old friends and new ones under
auspicious circumstances, and in delightful
homes where great hearts hold out the
hand of welcome and fellowship with kind-
ly feeling and gracious manner. Of this
nature was the afternoon At Home on
Tuesday, October 21, at the pretty cottage
on Twelfth East St., where Mrs. Anna
Sharp and her daughter, Mrs. Jeannette
Ferguson, and daughter-in-law, Mrs.
David Sharp, received their invited guests
from two to six.
	Autumn leaves tastefully arranged with
ivy and smilax, and great vases of magnifi-
cent chrysanthemums and cosmos adorned
the parlors and gave the rooms the appear-
ance of a fairy scene.
	The tables from which the guests were
served were not wanting in floral decora-
tions and superb women shone conspicu-
ausly in pouring the tea and coffee, while
young girls with modest grace served the
delicious refreshments in the happiest
manner. In the library one might refresh
herself from the punch bowl presided over
by one who knew well how to do the hon-
ors, and indeed there was nothing lacking
to attract the attention and admiration of
all who delight in these social festivities.
	Society owes much to those who bring
people together even for an hour’s enjoy-
ment in meeting with a cordial grasp of the
hand, those whose presence and friendly
feeling strengthen the ties of social life and
help to bind communities together.


[Column 1]
A BIOGRAPHY.
SARAH PRICE JONES ROBERTS. 
	I was born in May, 1828, in the Parish
of Westbury, Shropshire, England. My
father’s name was William Price, my
mother’s name was Eleanor Beedle Price. I
was the youngest but one of eight children,
three boys and five girls.
	My parents were a very honest and up-
right couple, and they always taught us to
be honest and truthful. My childhood
days were spent at home, but when I
grew older I lived with a gentleman’s fam-
ly for a while, after which I returned
home, and when eighteen years of age I
was married to William Jones in the West-
bury Church, May 1846.
	In 1849 I heard a Latter-day Saint Elder
preach and the joyful sound came to a
thankful heart. After hearing the glad,
message four times I embraced the same,
being baptized by Elder John Tibbets, and

[Column 2]
was confirmed a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elders
John Tibbets and John James.
	I prayed to the Lord for a testimony and
if it was true to bless me with a child. He
answered by giving me a son, born July 6,
1850, but he only lived to comfort me ten
short days and then went back to the One
who gave him. We named him Handley
Jones. My husband was a good, kind hus-
band and an honorable man, and we lived
very happily together. I used to preach
the Gospel to him and tried to get him to
see as I did, but he did not want any re-
ligion and would not embrace it. I told
him I would have to leave him and go to
Utah, but he did not think I would. We
lived happily together for twenty-three
years, with the exception of religion, which
was everything to me and I left him, my
home and all my dear ones on the 26th of
July 1869, to cross the mighty deep to join
the Saints in Utah. While on the sea I
sent a letter to my husband and it almost
broke his heart, for he did not know I was
gene, and you, dear readers, can better 
imagine my feelings when writing this
letter than I can write them but the Lord
says that “he that will not leave father and
mother and all for my sake, is not worthy,
of me.” So I thought it was time for me
to make the sacrifice.
	I had a good voyage over the sea and
took the train for Ogden, which did not
come any nearer in those days in Utah.
	Brother Wm. T. Higginson met me at
the depot and took me to his home in
Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah. The 15th of
April, 1870, he with his family and myself
moved to Goshen, and there I lived with
his family until I married a widower
with four children, Brother Peter Roberts;
but the baby died leaving three chil-
dren for me to be a mother to, and I tried
to teach them to the best of my ability.
	In 1870 I joined the Relief Society in
Goshen, was a teacher for some time, then
was chosen president of the teachers and
am now a director in the Relief Society Board.
	I was teacher in the Sunday School for
many years and in 1878 the Primary was
organized and I was chosen president
thereof, Lucy Taylor and Mary Ann Price
counselors, and I held that position till
1890, when I was released, having to walk
so far, and was chosen an aid to the Stake
Presidency of Utah County. I have en-
joyed my labors in all these offices and
have tried to do my duty to the best of my
ability and the knowledge my Heavenly
Father has blessed me with.
	My father and mother died in 1861. I
left two brothers and two sisters, aunts and
uncles, besides a host of friends for the
Gospel’s sake but have never regretted it.
My husband and myself have done a great
deal of work in the Temple for our dead
relatives and friends and have felt to re-
joice in doing so, for it is a grand work and
we always feel happy in working for the
redemption of the living and the dead, and I
never tire in bearing my testimony to the
truth of the Gospel, and I hope to be ever
true and faithful, for I love the Gospel bet-
ter than my life and desire to do all the
good I possibly can while I live here upon
the earth.


We have not failed until we cease
trying.


[Column 1]
