[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | November | Issue: 6 | Title: Obituaries | Author: A. M]

OBITUARIES.
ALICE R. CUNHA.
	Alice R. Cunha was born December 23rd, 1866,
in Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah. Died September
4, 1901, at Castle Dale, Emery County, Utah.
Was first counselor of the Relief Society of Castle
Dale.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father
to remove our dear sister and take her to a higher
sphere, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a faithful
worker in the cause of truth and that we desire to
emulate her earnest labors; and be it
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and daughter, and pray our.
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence of
His Holy Spirit rest down upon them, that they
may realize that she has only gone before and is
enjoying the rest of the faithful and will come
forth to a glorious immortality and eternal life.
And be it
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on our record, one sent to the bereaved
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
				SARAH S. LARSEN, Sec.
BETSY MASON BROWER.
	Sister Betsy Mason Brower died July 29, 1901,
in Lewiston, Utah, at the home of her daughter,
Sister E. C. Van Orden, after a severe and lin-
gering illness caused by cancer. The deceased
was aged 74 years and 7 months. She was born
in Birmingham, England, in 1826, and embraced
the Gospel in the land of her birth in 1853, emi-
grating to Utah in 1854, sailing on the ship,
Windermere. She was called to the office of
secretary during the first year of the organization
of the Richmond branch of the Relief Society in
the year 1864, acting from that time until 1889,
Nine years of that time she labored as counselor.
From that time on she labored as teacher, until
within four years of her demise.
	She was beloved by her associates for her integ-
rity, her love of right and her love of truth and
her staunch faith in the Gospel of Christ. She
was a friend to the poor and a wise counselor in
her home and we recognize in the death of our
beloved sister the loss of a faithful and energetic
worker, a faithful mother to her family, having a

[Column 2]
determination to educate them in adverse circum-
stances.
	And we highly esteem her faithful and untiring
labors and devotion to the interests of Zion
worthy of imitation by her children and friends.
	The Relief Society of Richmond showed their
very high esteem for Sister Brower by the presen-
tation of a beautiful anchor of white roses. These
were buried with dear “Aunt Betsy,” as she was
known by all. In return for which the children
and friends return their sincere thanks. 
							E. C. V.
	Lewiston, Utah, Oct. 2, 1901.
ANN HOLT.
	Ann Holt, the subject of this sketch, was born
August 3, 1826, in Dorsetshire, England. Her
parent’s names were Thomas Harrison and Har-
riet Flann. She was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints August 15, 1849,
by Elder Job Daley.
	In connection with her husband, Mathew Holt,
(who died in May last) a son and daughter, she
left her native country for the land of Zion in
1863, arriving in Salt Lake City, October 4, of the
same year. Here she was met by James and
Maria Oliver, with whom the following day she
went to South Jordan, Salt Lake Co., Utah,
where she made her home until the day of her
death, September 25, 1901. She was the only
one of her father’s family who feared God more
than mammon and had the stamina to accept the
Gospel.
	Before emigrating she assisted the Elders in
their singing upon the street corners and else-
where and because of her connection with the
Church and bold defence of the same she received
the scoffs and scorns of the world. Many times
have stones, rotten eggs, etc. been hurled at her,
yet she did not waver.
	After arriving in the valleys of the mountains
she continued to serve her God and succeeded in
driving mammon farther fram her each year of
her life.
	At the time of the organization of the Relief
Society of South Jordan in 1869, she was chosen
as its first president, which position she held until
her death, thirty-two years.
	She was kind, gentle and loving to such a great
extent that she demanded the love and respect of
all who knew her.
	She was wise in counsel, which was sought by
all, both male and female. Those who have ac-
cepted it never failed in being greatly benefited.
	She has been a queen among her own sex, a
mother to the orphans, a peace maker unto the
peace breakers, a comforter unto the downcast
and a blessing unto the world.
	She sought not honor, nor glory of man or the
riches of this earth. Her eyes were ever heaven-
ward, her ears ever open to the whisperings of
the Spirit of God, her arms ever outstretched to
relieve the sick and afflicted and her feet always
in that straight and narrow way.
	After 75 years in this sinful world she has passed
to the great beyond, a ruler in God’s Kingdom
and a savior upon Mount Zion, leaving a numer-
ous posterity and hosts of friends to mourn her
loss.
	Peace be to her ashes and God grant her a full
exaltation which she has so faithfully earned.
									A. M.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
