[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Grace Sayre]

HOME FIRES Grace Sayre Over the hill from the valley I walk at the end of day, Watching the far lights brighten Along the blue canyon way. I see thin home lights gleaming As they prick the darkness through, And I search for one good beacon - That points me home to you; You who keep lights burning, Oh, hope of my heart's desire! I return with a surging gladness In the thought of my own home fire. 
  FEBRUARY 1948
Elen Louise Wallace Madsen Called to the General Board Lillie C. Adams Member, General Board of Relief Society "The glory of God is intelligence, or in other words, light and truth" 6). ISTER Louise Madsen has S been conscious of the truthfulness of these words. She has constantly pursued a study of not only the gospel of Jesus Christ, but of literature, the sciences, and history.
Since her graduation from the L. D. S, University and attendance at the University of Utah, she has had extension Courses in English, literature, history, and law, School. She has, since her marriage, been a member of the Mt. Ogden Stake Primary board, a teach. Er in Junior Seminary, leader of the Twelfth Ward (Salt Lake City) Gleaner Girls, when her husband was bishop of that ward, Relief Society literature Class leader, Emigration Stake Relief Society theology class leader. Persistent, Positive, and perfect Performance in the 80spel brings forth goodly fruits, Again she was called to assume a Position of responsibility as president of Emigration. She manifests devotion to all her Church duties, realizing that the gospel "enlighteneth the mind, ELEN LOUISE WALLACE MADSEN and quickeneth the understanding, Openeth the heart Prepareth the hand in the execution of good deeds," Truly, she seeks to keep the two Her faith and fortitude are her strongholds, and she does not allow disaster or defeat to dampen her enthusiasm for the work of the gospel (Continued on Page 126) Page 8] Aleine Margetts Young Called to the General Board Velma N. Simonsen Second Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society LEINE Margetts Young was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, December 10, 1947. Her appointment brings to the organization a woman of ability and experience, a woman who is admired for her leadership, her good judgment, and her poise, and who is loved for her friendliness, her cheerfulness, her sincerity, and her willingness to work. - Aleine's father, the late Charles P. Margetts, was bishop of the Twenty-seventh Ward, Pioneer Stake, Salt Lake City, for twenty-three years. Her mother, Catherine Rigby Margetts, was a woman of charm and refinement and a wise counselor to her husband. When Aleine was fifteen years old she began teaching in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and has continued to give constant, faithful service in these organizations. She has served as a teacher in Relief Society, Sunday School, the Primary, and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, both in a ward capacity and as a member of the stake boards of these organizations. Sister Young is endowed with unusual executive qualities and with the ability to get things done. She is an excellent public speaker and delivers the gospel message with great sincerity. She has been president of Yale Ward Primary, president of Page
82 ALEINE MARGETTS YOUNG Bonneville Stake Y. W. M. LA., first counselor and president of the Bonneville Ward Relief Society, and for the past year she has served as president of the Bonneville Stake Relief Society. On September 17, 1920, she was married to Lorenzo S. Young, great-grandson of Brigham Young. She spent the next four years with her husband in New York and Philadelphia, where Mr.
Young was studying architecture.
While in the East they were both active in missionary work, helping the missionaries in holding cottage meetings and street meetings. (Continued on page 126)
ng.
Those who have actively entered upon the collecting of the Toney express themselves as finding joy and' satisfaction in Working for this cause.
While some ward Relief Societies are uniting to raise in one fund-raising activity their quotas, the great bulk of the money is coming in from individual donations earned by the sisters through that close and dear friend of Relief Society "Hard Work."
Many have made and sold bread, cake, pies, flowers, aprons, and other articles for eating and wearing.
With the Present high prices, it does not take too long to earn $5, each Relief Society member's quota. The General Board feels that in approving the year October 1947 - October 1948 as the time for collecting this great sum of money, wise guidance was given by the General Authorities of the