[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The Parking Lot]
The  Parking  Lot  Home 
Sweet  Home 
Gail  Johnson 
WATCHING  the  dehcate  old  "We  raised  seven  children  in  this 
lady  rock  in  the  creaking  house  and  two  of  them  were  taken 
cnair,  and  seeing  the  gray  from  us  under  this  very  roof."  Mag- 
head  of  the  man  leaning  forward  as  gie  McRae's  voice  was  as  fragile  as 
he  concentrated  on  a  piece  of  wood  her  veined,  slim  fingers  which  toyed 
he  whittled,  callous  newspaper  cor-  with  the  cameo  at  the  high  neck  of 
respondent  that  I  was,  I  was  sudden-  her  black  sateen  dress.  ''We  just 
ly  embarrassed.  can't  part  with  the  happiness  and 
'There's  not  much  we    can    do  tears  of  a  lifetime  for    any    price, 
about  it.  Miss.    That  board  of  men  Those  are  things  we  couldn't  sell." 
thinks  we're  fightin'  Irishmen  hold-  Her  eyes  smiled  toward  her  hus- 
in'  out  for  a  higher  price.  They  just  bandand,  without  knowing  why,  that 
don't  seem  to  understand."  glance  between  them  made  me  un- 
He  held  the  piece  of  wood  eye-  derstand. 
level,  scrutinizing  it  carefully.  The  deep  voice  took  up  the  recital. 
The  silence  blended  with  uncer-  then,    "When    that   big    company 
tain  shadows  cast  against  dark  walls,  bought  this  block  for  a  department 
and  no  sign   of   summer  sunshine  store  and  parking   lot,    some   men 
found  its  way  into  the  bleak    and  came  here  and  tried  every  way  to 
dreary  room.  make  us  see  their  point  of  view.  That 
At  last  he  went  on,  "Sure'n  I'd  was  simple  enough,  but  they  didn't 
be  glad  to  sell  the  house,  only  it's  seem  to  be  able  to  see  our  side  of  it." 
like  I  told  them,  it's  all  we  have.  Fading  blue  eyes  met  mine.  "This 
The    insurance    we    get    gives    us  strip  is  eighteen  feet  wide  and  runs 
enough  to  get  by  on,  but  this  house  back  from  the  street  forty-five  feet, 
is  our  home.  The  back  of  the  house  is  on  the 
"When  we  built  this  house  forty  forty-five-foot  line.  Guess  you  know 
years  ago,"  he  continued,  looking  at  the  rest,  about  how  they  built  the 
me  closely,  "there  were  other  houses  wall  across  the  back  and  along  the 
here,  too,  but  now  we've  the  only  two  sides  of  the  house." 
one  left,  and  the  heart  of  town  is  Yes,  I  knew  the  rest.    When  the 
around  us."    The  gray  head  moved  big  corporation's  plans  to  dismantle 
slowly  from  side  to    side.   "Times  Mike  and  Maggie  McRae's  home 
have  changed  since  then."  for  the  construction  of  a  parking  lot 
"They  offered  you  $2,000  for  this  had  gone  awry,  the  corporation  had 
strip,    didn't   they?     Couldn't  you  built  a  brick  wall,  roof  high,  around 
buy  another  place  with  that?"    My  three  sides  of  the  little  dwelling.  The 
suggestion  sounded  not  only  feeble,  company  couldn't  be  too  severely 
but  impertinent,  once  it  was  voiced,  criticized,  as  they  had  thousands  of 
and  I  regretted  speaking.  dollars  invested  in  their  new  build- 
Page  109

110 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY   1948 
ing  and  a  forty-year-old  house  nes- 
tled in  the  middle  of  their  concrete 
parking  lot  looked  preposterous. 
As  a  reporter,  I  knew  this,  but  my 
heart  went  out  to  this  helpless 
couple  destined  to  spend  their  few 
remaining  years  in  a  dusky  glow. 
\\7HEN  I  left  them  that  morning 
to  go  back  to  the  paper,  I  car- 
ried with  me  thick  notes  for  the  hu- 
man interest  yarn  for  which  I  had 
been  sent,  but  my  pity  erased  the 
feeling  of  a  job  well  done. 
The  same  afternoon,  as  the  air- 
liner on  which  I  was  returning  to 
Minneapolis  roared  into  the  air,  I 
looked  at  the  city  below.  The  curv- 
ing Missouri  River  made  an  attrac- 
tive watery  boundary  on  the  north 
side  of  Great  Falls,  then  curved  in- 
dolently through  the  city,  but  the 
beauty  of  the  scene  was  lost.  My 
only  thought  was  of  the  McRaes  in 
their  parking-lot  home. 
During  the  ensuing  ten  months 
the  McRaes  often  touched  my 
thoughts,  and  I  recalled  them  with 
tenderness  and  concern.  At  each  re- 
membrance my  uneasiness  about 
their  welfare  became  more  personal. 
Finally,  my  desire  to  know  how  they 
were  faring  came  near  to  becoming 
an  obsession. 
In  my  memory  the  lines  and  fea- 
tures of  the  aged  face  of  Maggie 
McRae  were  as  finely  chiseled  as 
the  expert  workmanship  of  the  gold 
encircled  cameo  pinned  against  the 
high  neck  of  her  dress.  The  silver 
hair,  coiled  in  a  circular  roll  atop 
her  head,  I  recalled,  was  the  smart- 
est of  coiffures  of  today.  I  felt,  how- 
ever, that  she  had  been  childishly 
unaware  of  any  claim  of  being  mod- 
ern. During  my  visit  she  had  had 
eyes  only  for  the  knitting  needles. 
expertly  propelled  by  her  veined 
hands. 
I  pictured  the  house  and  the  peo- 
ple so  well,  so  clearly. 
Mike  was  equally  a  part  of  the 
picture.  His  thick  white  hair  en- 
circled by  a  halo  of  futility  brought 
a  lump  to  my  throat  as  I  recalled 
his  need  for  a  warmer  sweater  or 
sturdier  carpet  slippers. 
At  last  my  feature  writing  career 
gave  me  the  opportunity  of  return- 
ing to  Montana  for  a  follow-up  story 
the  next  year.  My  editor  ordered 
an  assignment  on  the  old  Broad- 
water Hotel  in  Helena,  near  where 
the  McRaes  lived. 
Broadwater  had  been  the  Sara- 
toga of  the  West  and  the  solid  gold 
doorknobs,  of  which  it  had  boasted, 
had  been  turned  by  early  statesmen 
and  fabulous  mining  kings.  Many  of 
the  wonders  of  the  decrepit  build- 
ing had  been  forgotten,  but  numer- 
ous rooms  still  held  dusty,  frayed 
elegance  of  the  last  decade.  Because 
of  these  musty  fragments,  I  found 
myself  again  aboard  a  plane,  cover- 
ing the  miles  toward  Montana— 
and  the  McRaes. 
Two  days  later,  the  assignment 
finished  and  sent  on  its  way  to  the 
office,  I  was  on  my  way  to  Great 
Falls. 
'Tm  going  to  see  what  has  hap- 
pened to  the  McRaes  at  last,"  I 
said  to  myself. 
From  Helena,  by  air,  it  is  a  scant 
half-hour  trip.  I  was  no  sooner 
settled  in  my  seat  than  the  light  in- 
structing all  passengers  to  fasten 
their  safety  belts  was  flashed. 
WHEN   I  had   finally  been   de- 
posited at  the  hotel  by  the  air- 
line limousine,  had  checked  into  an 
air-cooled  room,  and  had  freshened

THE  PARKING  LOT  HOME  SWEET  HOME 
111 
myself  after  the  short  trip,  I  started 
for  the  street  to  see  with  my  own 
eyes  the  house  with  the  wall,  silent- 
ly praying  that  I  would  find  it  as  I 
had  left  it  the  year  before. 
As  I  paused  at  the  hotel  desk  to 
leave  my  key,  it  would  have  been  sim- 
ple to  inquire  of  the  clerk  or  Mr. 
Walter,  the  hotel  manager,  as  to  the 
whereabouts  of  the  McRaes.  Yet, 
somehow,  I  had  become  sentimental 
about  the  dwelling  and  the  people 
inhabiting  it  and  didn't  want  to  dis- 
cuss it,  for  fear  Vd  be  told  it  was 
gone.  So,  I  smiled  in  response  to  the 
desk  clerk's  greeting  and  said  noth- 
ing. 
Strolling  seemed  preferable  to 
hurrying  to  my  destination.  I 
wasn't  sure  if  it  was  because  I  wanted 
to  window-shop  or  because  I  dreaded, 
now  that  I  was  nearly  there,  what 
I  might  find. 
At  last  I  stood  still,  seeing  in  real 
life  that  building  and  home  which 
had  been  in  my  mind  for  the  past 
year. 
Yes,  the  wall  still  stood,  but  the 
gray  house  was  gone! 
The  strip  of  ground  leading  to 
what  I  had  come  to  see,  was  now  as 
if  measured  from  a  giant  bolt  of 
green  velvet! 
A  wire  fence,  the  height  of  the 
adjoining  brick  wall  ran  on  both  sides 
of  the  strip  and  across  the  front, 
along  the  street  where  I  stood.  A 
swinging  gate  was  the  sole  entrance 
to  the  enclosure  and  seemed  to  in- 
vite me  to  enter,  as  did  a  white  house 
with  green  shutters,  meeting  my 
stare  of  disbelief. 
I  pushed  the  gate  half  open,  then 
paused.  It  was  changed,  perhaps  Fd 
regret  going  farther. 
Suddenly  I  had  to  know,  and  the 
gate  swung  behind  me.    The  grass 
was  smooth  and  well-kept  and 
flowers  bloomed.  I  stopped  before 
the  house.  There  hadn't  been  a 
porch  before,  I  remembered  clearly, 
but  now  three  steps  led  onto  a  small 
veranda.  Half  reticently,  my  knuck- 
les tapped  the  door. 
A  shuffling  sound  from  within  told 
me  the  door  would  soon  be  opened. 
It  was,  and  there  stood  Mr.  McRae. 
Leaning  a  shade  forward,  he 
squinted,  trying  to  recognize  me  in 
the  early  dimness  of  evening. 
Relief  held  me  silent,  but  finally 
released  the  reins  of  tension,  and  I 
spoke.  ''Remember  me,  Mr.  Mc- 
Rae?" I  asked.  '1  was  here  last 
summer  from  the  Midwest  Maga- 
zine." Tears  were  in  the  way  of  both 
my  vision  and  my  voice. 
His  Irish  face  lighted  up  and  he 
extended  a  gnarled  hand,  pulling  me 
over  the  threshhold. 
My  eyes  clung  to  his  sweet  smile 
and  I  was  unaware  of  another  pres- 
ence until  I  felt  an  arm  around  my 
waist,  and,  looking  down  at  the  kind- 
ly old  lady,  I  couldn't  resist  kissing 
her  wrinkled  forehead. 
"DETWEEN  them  I  was  drawn  in- 
to an  old-fashioned  room,  but  it 
was  no  longer  dreary  and  thread- 
bare. Ruffled  tie-back  curtains  re- 
placed the  beige  lace,  previously 
covering  the  panes,  and  soft  green 
walls  added  warmth. 
I  blinked  amazed  eyes,  and  my 
ears  were  deaf  to  what  their  voices 
were  saying  as  I  heeded  the  changes 
in  the  cozy  room. 
What  has  happened?  I  asked  my- 
self. 
Finally,  Father  McRae's  voice 
broke  through  my  preoccupation. 
His  blue  eyes  were  dancing.  ''Here 
for  another  story.  Miss?"  he  asked.