[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Story]

Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The Answer Janath Russell Cannon JANATH RUSSELL CANNON THE afternoon shadows were beginning to lengthen across the lawn; they crept up the porch steps and almost touched the feet of the girl sitting motionless in the late autumn sun, an open, unread book in her lap. How slowly they move, she thought, watching the shadows, like the days how slowly they drag by. The sun's rays lay lightly on the black dress and the thin, almost transparent hands. Mrs. Anderson came out of the house with her accustomed briskness, drawing on her gloves and adjusting her hat with firm, capable fingers. Page 88
She was a small woman, completely unlike her tall, dark daughter and her three strapping sons. At the sight of Mary sitting quietly with half-closed eyes, she paused; and her manner became less assured, almost tinged with despair. "Mary Dear, are you sure you wouldn't like to come to Relief Society with me this afternoon? You really should start getting out again, you know." "No, thank you, Mother. Id rather stay here." 'The voice was mechanically polite, the dark eyes did not look up. Mrs.
Anderson sighed, hesitated a moment, then hurried on.
After the meeting, she waited until the room had cleared and then approached the work director, Sister Jamieson. Sister Jamieson put a big, warm hand on her shoulder and said gently, "You look worried, Sister Anderson. Is it Mary?" "Yes, I'm at my wits' end, Sister Jamieson. She eats hardly anything, and just sits on the porch all day." "Let’s see it's been three months since Ken was killed, hasn't it?" "Yes." Mrs.
Anderson shuddered. THE ANSWER "That horrible accident! It's hard to understand that Ken should go all through the wat without a scratch, only to be snuffed out in a second, by a drunken college boy in a flivver. And the baby!"
Tears stood in her eyes. "Ken and Mary "were so happy about that baby. It would have been born this month, you know." "I know." Mrs.
Jamieson patted her arm. "Sometimes the ways of the Lord are hard to understand." "That's what worries me most.
Mary keeps asking why the Lord didn't take her, when he took away her every reason for living. If she could only find something do you suppose Brother Jamieson could help? She enjoyed teaching under him that year before she was married." "Yes, he always said any principal would be glad to have Mary as a teacher. Do you think she's strong enough now?" "Doctor Carter says she needs a job." Sister Jamieson gathered up her purse and books with a decisive gesture. "I'll speak to Tom about it tonight." THE next afternoon as Mary sat on the porch reading, the quiet was shattered by a joyous cacophony of sound. Public School Number Five, just around the corner, was dismissed for the day. A stream of shouting, bright-sweatered youngsters eddied and swirled down the street.
With a sigh, Mary closed the book and rose to go into the house. They're so terribly alive, she thought, with an ache in her throat. "Wait a moment, Mary," said a pleasant voice; and she turned to see Mr.
Jamieson coming up the walk. 89 A rare smile lighted the girl's somber face. "Hello, Mr. Jamieson," she greeted him warmly. "What brings you this way?" "Business, Mary.
Shall we go inside, where we can hear ourselves talk? I swear, these youngsters get noisier every year." He led the way, talking easily. "Your third-graders were unusually well-behaved when you taught them that one year. You have a real teaching knack, Mary; it's a pity to waste it." She started to speak; a tiny frown had replaced the welcoming smile. But the principal continued, "We need teachers, Mary. You could be a great help to us and it would do you good, too." "Please, Mr. Jamieson," Mary interrupted him. "I'd really like to help you, but I'm afraid I can't. I just can't." "Of course, I realize we can't offer you much in the way of salary. It's the intangible rewards that make teaching worthwhile. I wouldn't blame you if you decided to look elsewhere for a job." "I hadn't thought of getting a job."
Under the man's direct gaze, she felt a slow flush creeping into her cheeks. "After all," she said defensively, "I haven't exactly been in a position to work lately." "You're well enough to work now," said the principal, his bluntness softened only by the kind tone. "T talked to Doctor Carter just this morning. He says you need to get out and be busy if you don't stop just sitting around this house, you'll turn into a vegetable."
There was no answering spark in Mary's eyes. "At least vegetables have a kind of peace," she said in a low voice. "No. I'm sorry, Mr. Jamieson, but I just don't feel like working. I couldn't do a good job, feeling the way I do." The principal rose and picked up his hat. "All right, Mary, if that's the way you want it." He hesitated for a moment, then went on firmly, "But let me tell you this. Ken Foster was as straight-thinking a boy as I've ever known. He always said that a man ought to pull his own weight in this world yes, and a woman, too. I think he expects his wife to pull her weight in the world as long as she's here." Mr. Jamieson's sharp blue eyes softened a little. "I know the separation's hard to bear, Mary. But have faith, Child if that accident didn't take you along with Ken and your baby, it must have been for a purpose. Won't you take the job?"
Mary looked at him soberly. "The only job I'm interested in is being Ken's wife and having his children. When I was in the hospital, I prayed to die. I still do. Do you think I want to teach little children, feeling like that?"
Without a word, the principal bowed his head in defeat and left the house.
Poor kid, he thought, Ken was the breath of life to her. I guess she's been in love with him ever since she was old enough to know what the word meant.
What can a mere man do against grief like that? But that evening when he answered the phone, he recognized Mary's voice. "I'm sorry about this afternoon, Mr. Jamieson. I've been thinking it over. You were right about Ken; he would want me to  to pull my own weight. I'll try it, anyway.
When do you want me to start?" THAT winter was long and hard. The wind blew the snow into great drifts higher than a man. The children's heavy overshoes and snowsuits dripped puddles of dirty water that threatened to flood the cloakroom, and the third grade was so crowded some of the pupils had to double up in the cramped desks.
Discipline was not easy to maintain.
Although she made an honest effort, Mary could not summon back the enthusiasm she had once put into her teaching; and the children seemed to sense her indifference. By  the time she plodded home in the desolate winter twilight, she was bone-weary, brain-weary, and the sum total of her desires was for a hot bath and sleep. She could hardly keep her eyes open long enough after dinner to correct the day's papers. Mrs.
Anderson watched her daughter anxiously. "You're sure she's not overdoing?" she asked Doctor Carter as they chatted on the street corner. "You know Mary is inclined to go to extremes." "She'll be all right," said the doctor heartily. '"There's nothing like hard work to mend a broken heart. That's my prescription every time." He repeated the cheerful axiom to Mr.
Jamieson a few days later, but the principal shook his head. "Sometimes I'm afraid Mary's heart is just withering away, instead of mending. She works hard, but she's like an automaton. I don't think I've seen her smile all winter. Frankly, Doctor, the work cure isn't having quite the results I had hoped." Grandmother Ellis also shook her 

  FEBRUARY 1948 THE ANSWER head. "It takes a new love to bury an old one," she said sententiously. "Aren't there any eligible young men in the ward these days?" All during the winter, Mary had pleaded weariness as an excuse for refusing the occasional invitations to a movie or a lecture. But finally she accepted. "Everyone keeps telling me this is what I need," she thought grimly as she bathed and slipped into a fresh dress after school. "And Grandmother Ellis will pester the life out of me if I turn Eric down again." But afterward, as she sat at her dressing table and stared into the mirror with dull eyes, she thought. "It's no use. I'm still Ken's wife. I only want to be with him. Why can't they let me alone? Why doesn't the Lord let me go?" SPRING finally came; and as Mary walked wearily home after school one afternoon, she saw the first kite, leaping and dancing against the rain-washed sky, tugging madly at the invisible string that held it earth-bound. 'The excitement of it caught at her throat and she stopped short. For the first time since Ken's death, she was aware of the world around her and its beauty; and the numbness in her heart was swept away in an inexplicable tide of joy. She drew in a deep breath of the cool earth-and-rain-scented air. It's spring spring] said her heart, exultantly. But the next moment she was half running, her vision blurred with stinging tears, clenching her teeth to hold back the agonizing sobs until she could fling herself down on her 91 bed at home. "Oh Ken Ken, I miss you so!" But in spite of the pain, she felt alive in every fiber, and spring was in her blood like a tonic. The next morning she walked briskly to school and arrived earlier than usual. But someone had been there before her. On the scarred surface of the desk lay a bunch of violets, painstakingly tied together with a pink hair bow.
Underneath them she saw a folded piece of ruled notepaper. She untied the ribbon and read the note: "Dere Miss Mary," began the childish scrawl. "You are so bewtiful and so sad I think maybe you are lonsum like me. Its awfull to be lonsum. I wish you were my techer. I love you."
There was no signature.
Mary laid the paper down thoughtfully. Its awfull to be lonsum what a bitter truth for a child to have to learn!
What kind of parents could the child have, she thought indignantly. Then, since the first trickle of students had begun to straggle in, she slipped the note and the flowers into the top drawer. But the pitiful little note haunted her thoughts, and the sight of the compositions to be corrected that day gave her a sudden impulsive idea.
That handwriting looks like one of Miss Kissinger's fifth-graders, she thought, I wonder if I could recognize it in a composition.
That night, Mary sat down to a pile of fifth-grade papers. The subject, repeated in a_ variety of sprawled, childish handwriting, was "My Best Friend."
Curiously she scanned the pages of ruled copy paper.
Most of the compositions described playmates, a favorite uncle, a dog.
Then came a first line that stood out from the rest. "I have a friend and his name is Henry. He is a mouse." Eagerly Mary read on: "He is sort of brown and his nose wigles. I put bred crums on the floor for him to eat and I talk to him. I wish I culd have a kitty to pet. My aunt says they are too much trubble. She doesn't know about Henry." Hastily, Mary compared the writing with the note that had come with the flowers. It was the same. The name was printed at the top of the composition Emily Dale, in precise, painstaking letters. ISS Kissinger was not above the enjoyment of a bit of gossip. When Mary returned the papers and inquired in an offhand manner about the child whose best friend was a mouse, the older woman gave a delicate snort. "Clotilda Beach would burst a stay if she knew about that mouse. She's so proud of being an immaculate housekeeper. Emily's her only sister's child, you know. Susan Beach she was a beautiful girl. I think Clotilda was always jealous of her. But when Susan and her husband were both drowned, there was no one left to take the child but Clotilda." Miss Kissinger smiled grimly. "She didn't accept the situation very gracefully. If she hadn't been afraid of what people would say, I think she'd have sent the child to an orphan asylum." Mary's eyes widened.
Dreadful woman!" "No, my dear. She's just lived to herself for twenty years. Besides, Emily is an uncommonly homely child sallow skin and a_ wide "What a mouth, stringy hair. She has the misfortune to resemble her aunt more than her mother.
Strangers are always telling Clotilda how much her daughter resembles her; naturally, this annoys Clotilda immensely." "But surely the child must have some friends," persisted Mary. "Her schoolmates  neighborhood children." Miss Kissinger pursed her lips reflectively. "Children are cruel, They live by herd instinct, and Emily isn't one of the herd.
Clotilda never did have good taste in clothes; even I can see that.
Iler idea of a suitable outfit for Emily is a middy and skirt, and it's the same thing every day. And I don't imagine she's encouraged to bring any other children home with her, even if she had any friends to bring. She's bright in school having no outside distractions, | suppose and that doesn't endear her to her classmates either." "Poor child," said Mary softly. The older woman patted her arm, and her voice was suddenly kind. "Each of us has his own brand of loneliness, my dear.
Emily isn't mistreated; there are millions of children worse off than she." "I know."
Mary couldn't explain, even to herself, why she should feel such a burden of responsibility toward a child she had never even seen. But its awful to be lonsum the pitiful little scrawl haunted her. "All the same, I think Ill ask her over for a little visit this evening." AFTER the last bell had rung, Mary closed her desk hastily and went to the door of the fifth-grade room. She had no difficulty 

  FEBRUARY 1948 THE ANSWER in recognizing Emily.
There was the inevitable middy and skirt; there was the stringy hair and the shy, unhappy expression she had expected. But Mary also saw a pair of longlashed eyes with a sudden eager look in them, as the child caught sight of her. "Hello," smiled Mary. "You're Emily, aren't you?" "How did you know?" asked the breathless little voice. "Oh, a little mouse named Henry told me." A radiant smile lighted the small, homely face, then disappeared. "Oh  did you read my composition? J] shouldn't have written it. I've been so scared Aunt Clotilda would find out."
Mary put her arm around the small figure. "I wouldn't tell, Emily. I thought it was a very nice composition. In fact, it was so good I thought you might be able to help me with something of mine.
Would your aunt let you come over to my house tonight for supper and a little visit?" - Emily's hands clenched in excitement. "Oh, Miss Mary, could I? Do you really want me to?" "Yes," said Mary seriously. "I'm writing a textbook on grade-school grammar, and I think you can help me." It was a half-truth; at least she had started such a book once. "I’ll walk home with you now and ask Aunt Clotilda." Mary's eyes were sparkling as she watched the excitement in the little girl's face.
They looked at each other and began to laugh with delight. Mrs.
Anderson was a good cook, and Emily ate her meal with such obvious relish that the good woman's heart was completely won. "You 93 could stand a lot more flesh on you, Child," she said, eying Emily's bony shoulders. "Mary will have to bring you to dinner often." The time passed swiftly, and as Mary noticed the darkness outside, she exclaimed, "Goodness, it must be late. I told your aunt I'd have you home before dark she'll be cross." The sparkle in Emily's eyes faded, and a frightened look appeared. "Oh, Miss Mary, can't I stay with you tonight Aunt Clotilda will be cross. Please, Miss Mary!" "Why, Honey, I can't do that. I'll walk home with you and explain to your aunt.
Surely she won't do anything dreadful." The look on the child's face was distressing. "Does she does she spank you?" "No," said Emily dully. "She locks me in my room and takes the electric light bulb out.".
Feeling baffled and helpless, Mary took the child home. Miss Beach accepted her explanation of their lateness with a curt nod of her ironmarcelled head. "I dare say she'll remember next time," she said coldly, as Emily.
Backed into the house with a last entreating look. "If there is a next time!" All the way home and as she was getting ready for bed, the pitiful look persisted in Mary's thoughts. "It's none of my affair," she told herself. "Why should I feel responsible for her?" But she did feel responsible. All too clearly, she could see the inevitable march of Emily's destiny a frustrated, anguished adolescence, followed by the dreary process of getting older, unloved; working, caring for a tyrannical old woman. while life passed by. Her aunt would see to it that she never married, and would never let her forget the burden of gratitude she should carry.
Mary shuddered.
What if it were my little girl, that I might have had? For a long time she sat on the edge of her bed, almost in a daze. Then, as if a voice had told her, she knew what she must do.
With a light heart, she lay down to sleep and felt that Ken was close beside her, approving her decision. The next morning she went to her mother, eyes shining. "Mother, I'm going to adopt Emily and go back to the little house Ken and I built." "What!" Then, seeing the urgency in her daughter's dark eyes, Mrs.
Anderson hesitated.
Something told her this was no whim, but the long-sought answer to a great need. "Well," she said thoughtfully, "it might be a good idea a home, and someone you love to look after. Yes, it might be a very good idea." To Mary's surprise, everything went smoothly. Miss Beach, after a moment of astonished disapproval, was obviously glad to be relieved of an unwelcome burden; the adoption.
Officers were sympathetic; Mr.
Jamieson assured her she could go on teaching as long as she wanted. And Emily her plain little face glowed with such ecstacy that Mary was startled. "Oh, Miss Mary do you really want me? Are you sure?" Any lingering doubts Mary might have had were dispelled in that moment. She took Emily's small cold hands in hers and drew her close. "T think Heavenly Father must have known we needed each other," she said simply. "Shall we kneel down and thank him?" Janath Russell Cannon (Mrs. Edwin Q. Cannon, Jr.), contributes the following brief sketch: "I am afraid my literary accomplishments are meager. The only other story I have ever submitted for publication was entered in The Atlantic Monthly's annual contest for college students, when I was a junior at Wellesley College in 1938. It was awarded third prize. Our family consists of my husband, myself, a daughter Ann, who celebrated her first birthday in January, and a red, hound dog named Pete. My.
Other activities include singing in the Tabernacle Choir and acting as first counselor in the North Twentieth Ward (Salt Lake City, Utah) Relief Society." FEBRUARY Ora Pate Stewart The fence is stretched like a quilting frame Round the lawn where the grass used to grow, And sparrows are having a quilting party Making stitches. In the snow.