[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature: Appreciation Values in Doctrine and Covenants Reading Elder H. Wayne Driggs]
^Literature — Literature  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Lesson  8— Appreciation  Values  in  Doctrine  and  Covenants  Reading 
Elder  H.  Wayne  Diiggs 
For  Tuesday,  May  i8,  1948 
Objective:     To  appreciate  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  as  literature  through  a  dis- 
cussion of  values  to  be  received  from  the  Lord's  v^'ord. 
J^HROUGHOUT  the  study  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  this 
year,  the  Hterary  values  of  this  mod- 
ern scripture  have  been  stressed.  It 
has  been  our  purpose  to  appreciate 
the  beauty,  as  well  as  the  truth,  of 
the  Lord's  word  in  our  day. 
In  all  studies  of  literature  there  is 
need  at  the  end  of  a  course  to  enjoy, 
to  appreciate,  to  remember.  This  can 
well  be  done  in  what  we  may  call  a 
literary  recital  of  the  choice  passages 
from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
studied  during  our  lessons.  In  the 
main,  these  passages  have  divided 
themselves  into  longer  and  shorter 
readings.  The  longer  ones  may  be 
illustrated  by  the  following: 
Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few 
are  chosen.  And  why  are  they  not  chosen? 
Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon 
the  things  of  this  world,  and  aspire  to  the 
honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this 
one  lesson — that  the  rights  of  the  priest- 
hood are  inseparably  connected  with  the

136 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1948 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of 
heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor  handled 
only  upon  the  principle  of  righteousness. 
That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is 
true,  but  when  we  undertake  to  cover  our 
sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambi- 
tion, or  to  exercise  control  or  dominion 
or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  in  any  degree  of  unrighteous- 
ness, behold,  the  heavens  withdraw  them- 
selves; the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved; 
and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the 
priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man. 
Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto 
himself,  to  kick  against  the  pricks,  to  per- 
secute the  saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 
We  have  learned  by  sad  experience  that 
it  is  the  nature  and  disposition  of  almost 
all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  author- 
ity, as  they  suppose,  they  will  immediately 
begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 
Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen. 
No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought 
to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  priest- 
hood, only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffer- 
ing, by  gentleness  and  meekness,  and  by 
love  unfeigned;  By  kindness,  and  pure 
knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the 
soul  without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile 
— reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost;  and  then 
showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of 
love  toward  him  whom  thou  hast  re- 
proved, lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  en- 
emy; that  he  may  know  that  thy  faithful- 
ness is  stronger  than  the  cords  of  death. 
Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  to- 
wards all  men,  and  to  the  household  of 
faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts 
unceasingly;  then  shall  thy  confidence  wax 
strong  in  the  presence  of  God;  and  the 
doctrine  of  the  priesthood  shall  distill  up- 
on thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven.  The 
Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  com- 
panion, and  thy  scepter  an  unchanging 
scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth;  and  thy 
dominion  shall  be  an  everlasting  dominion 
and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow 
unto  thee  forever  and  ever  (121:34-46). 
Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church, 
saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on  high, 
and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men;  yea,  ver- 
ily I  say:  Hearken  ye  people  from  afar;  and
