[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Editorial | Title: Women and Sharp]
RELIEF  Society  women  throughout  the  Church  are  happy  to  unite 
again  in  wishing  health  and  joy  to  President  Amy  Brown  Lyman 
whose  devoted  service  to  womanhood  is  greatly  appreciated. 
This  year,  particularly,  members  of  Relief  Society  wish  to  express  their 
gratitude  to  Sister  Lyman  for  the  excellent  biography  of  Alice  Louise 
Reynolds— A  Ligtiiei  oi  Lamps— which  has  recently  been  printed  by  the 
Deseret  News  Press.  The  book  is  a  beautifully  expressed  tribute  and  life 
story.  Sister  Reynolds,  a  dear  friend  and  close  associate  of  President  Lyman, 
was  a  member  of  the  General  Board  of  Relief  Society  from  1923  to  1930, 
during  which  time  she  served  as  associate  editor  and,  later,  as  editor  of 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
An  outstanding  and  delightful  quality  of  the  book  is  Sister  Lyman's 
keen  analysis  and  deep  appreciation  of  the  character  of  Alice  Louise  Rey- 
nolds, a  dynamic  leader  of  women,  a  student,  teacher,  traveler,  lecturer, 
writer,  and  loyal  and  beloved  friend. 
Prefacing  the  biography.  Elder  Bryant  S.  Hinckley  expresses  apprecia- 
tion for  Sister  Lyman's  careful  and  inspired  work  on  the  biography:  ''Read- 
ing it  has  been  a  delight  all  the  way  through;  for  you  have  told  the  story 
of  this  noble  woman  with  a  fidelity  and  an  understanding  that  you,^  and 
only  you,  could  do." 
This  book  is  a  further  contribution  of  Sister  Lyman  to  the  preservation 
of  the  record  of  the  work  and  accomplishments  of  Latter-day  Saint  women.

TlohuL TO  THE  FIELD 
ujoand   Volumes  of  igjfj  UXeuef  Societif    fl  Lagazines 
cJemporary   Ujinaers  J/tvauavie 
T3ELIEF  Society  officers  and  members  who  wish  to  have  their  1947  issues 
of  The  Reliei  Society  Magazine  bound  may  do  so  through  the  office  of 
the  General  Board,  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah.  The  cost 
for  binding  the  twelve  issues  in  a  permanent  cloth  binding  is  $1.75,  includ- 
ing the  index. 
Substantial  temporary  binders,  into  which  single  copies  of  the  Maga- 
zine for  one  year  may  be  inserted  or  removed  at  will,  are  available  for  $1.20 
postpaid. 
It  is  suggested  that  wards  and  stakes  have  one  volume  of  the  1947 
Magazines  bound  for  preservation  in  ward  and  stake  Relief  Society  libraries. 
No  Magazines  for  binding  are  available  at  the  office  of  the  General 
Board. 
Watch  This  Month 
  the  month  stamped  along  with  your  address  on  every  copy  of  the 
Magazine  you  receive.  It  shows  the  month  in  which  your  Relief  Society 
Magazine  subscription  expires.  By  watching  this  month,  you  can  renew 
your  subscription  early  enough  so  that  no  issues  of  the  Magazine  vdll  be 
missed. 
Renewal  subscriptions  must  be  received  at  this  office  one  full  month 
in  advance  of  expiration  in  order  to  avoid  missing  an  issue. 
  » ♦ » 
PRAYER  FOR  A  SON 
LeRoy  Buike  Meagher 
Give  me  a  son  who  loves  to  run 
With  life  full  in  his  face, 
Likes  dogs  and  lanes  and  quiet  rains 
And  kites  the  breezes  race; 
Who  knows  the  creed  of  earth  and  seed, 
And  tends  the  precious  flame 
Of  faith  with  care,  by  daily  prayer 
In  Jesus'  holy  name. 
Page  108

The  Parking  Lot  Home 
Sweet  Home 
Gail  Johnson 
WATCHING  the  dehcate  old  "We  raised  seven  children  in  this 
lady  rock  in  the  creaking  house  and  two  of  them  were  taken 
cnair,  and  seeing  the  gray  from  us  under  this  very  roof."  Mag- 
head  of  the  man  leaning  forward  as  gie  McRae's  voice  was  as  fragile  as 
he  concentrated  on  a  piece  of  wood  her  veined,  slim  fingers  which  toyed 
he  whittled,  callous  newspaper  cor-  with  the  cameo  at  the  high  neck  of 
respondent  that  I  was,  I  was  sudden-  her  black  sateen  dress.  ''We  just 
ly  embarrassed.  can't  part  with  the  happiness  and 
'There's  not  much  we    can    do  tears  of  a  lifetime  for    any    price, 
about  it.  Miss.    That  board  of  men  Those  are  things  we  couldn't  sell." 
thinks  we're  fightin'  Irishmen  hold-  Her  eyes  smiled  toward  her  hus- 
in'  out  for  a  higher  price.  They  just  bandand,  without  knowing  why,  that 
don't  seem  to  understand."  glance  between  them  made  me  un- 
He  held  the  piece  of  wood  eye-  derstand. 
level,  scrutinizing  it  carefully.  The  deep  voice  took  up  the  recital. 
The  silence  blended  with  uncer-  then,    "When    that   big    company 
tain  shadows  cast  against  dark  walls,  bought  this  block  for  a  department 
and  no  sign   of   summer  sunshine  store  and  parking   lot,    some   men 
found  its  way  into  the  bleak    and  came  here  and  tried  every  way  to 
dreary  room.  make  us  see  their  point  of  view.  That 
At  last  he  went  on,  "Sure'n  I'd  was  simple  enough,  but  they  didn't 
be  glad  to  sell  the  house,  only  it's  seem  to  be  able  to  see  our  side  of  it." 
like  I  told  them,  it's  all  we  have.  Fading  blue  eyes  met  mine.  "This 
The    insurance    we    get    gives    us  strip  is  eighteen  feet  wide  and  runs 
enough  to  get  by  on,  but  this  house  back  from  the  street  forty-five  feet, 
is  our  home.  The  back  of  the  house  is  on  the 
"When  we  built  this  house  forty  forty-five-foot  line.  Guess  you  know 
years  ago,"  he  continued,  looking  at  the  rest,  about  how  they  built  the 
me  closely,  "there  were  other  houses  wall  across  the  back  and  along  the 
here,  too,  but  now  we've  the  only  two  sides  of  the  house." 
one  left,  and  the  heart  of  town  is  Yes,  I  knew  the  rest.    When  the 
around  us."    The  gray  head  moved  big  corporation's  plans  to  dismantle 
slowly  from  side  to    side.   "Times  Mike  and  Maggie  McRae's  home 
have  changed  since  then."  for  the  construction  of  a  parking  lot 
"They  offered  you  $2,000  for  this  had  gone  awry,  the  corporation  had 
strip,    didn't   they?     Couldn't  you  built  a  brick  wall,  roof  high,  around 
buy  another  place  with  that?"    My  three  sides  of  the  little  dwelling.  The 
suggestion  sounded  not  only  feeble,  company  couldn't  be  too  severely 
but  impertinent,  once  it  was  voiced,  criticized,  as  they  had  thousands  of 
and  I  regretted  speaking.  dollars  invested  in  their  new  build- 
Page  109

110 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY   1948 
ing  and  a  forty-year-old  house  nes- 
tled in  the  middle  of  their  concrete 
parking  lot  looked  preposterous. 
As  a  reporter,  I  knew  this,  but  my 
heart  went  out  to  this  helpless 
couple  destined  to  spend  their  few 
remaining  years  in  a  dusky  glow. 
\\7HEN  I  left  them  that  morning 
to  go  back  to  the  paper,  I  car-