[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Social Jacobs]
Social  c&imce— Essentials  in  Home  Training 
Lesson  7— Reverence 
Elder  Joseph  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  May  25,  1948 
Objective:     To  show  that  reverence  is  inborn,  that  it  has  been  observed  from  the 
beginning  of  time  and  that  it  needs  greater  emphasis  in  our  lives  today. 
O  E VERENCE  is  profound  respect     sacred  and  should  be  treated   with 
or  honor  for  a  holy  being  or  place     great  reverence, 
or  an  exalted  thing. 
One  of  the  innate  characteristics 
of  human  nature  is  that  of  reverence 
and  respect  for  divine  power— a  pow- 
Tliou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the 
Lord  thy  God  in  vain;  for  the  Lord  will 
not  hold  him  guiltless  that  taketh  his 
name  in  vain  (Exodus  20:7). 
er  greater  than  that  of  man.  There 
is  something  within  the  breast  of 
every  human  being  which  instinc- 
tively reaches  up  for  contact  with  his 
Maker. 
Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with 
all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and 
with  all  thy  mind.  This  is  the  first  and 
great  commandment  (Matt.  22:37-38). 
This  is  the  true  spirit  of  reverence. 
From  a  quotation  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  we  learn  that  im- 
mortal as  well  as  mortal  beings  give 
reverence  and  devotion  to  Deity: 
And  thus  we  saw  the  glory  of  the  celes- 
tial, which  excels  in  all  things — where  God, 
e\'en  the  Father,  reigns  upon  his  throne 
forever  and  ever;  before  whose  throne  all 
things  bow  in  humble  reverence  and  give 
him  glory  forever  and  ever  (76:92-93). 
How  Should  We  Treat  the 
Name  of  the  Lord? 
Even  the  name  of  the    Lord    is 
From  Clark's  Commentary  we 
read: 
This  precept  not  only  forbids  all  false 
oaths,  but  all  swearing  where  the  name  of 
God  is  used,  or  where  he  is  appealed  to  as 
a  witness  of  the  truth.  It  also  necessarily 
forbids  all  light  and  irreverent  mention  of 
God,  or  any  of  his  attributes;  and  we  may 
safely  add  to  all  these,  that  every  prayer, 
ejaculation,  etc.  that  is  not  accompanied 
with  deep  reverence  and  the  genuine  spir- 
it of  piety,  is  here  condemned  also. 
Whatever  the  person  himself  may  think 
or  hope,  however  he  may  plead  in  his  own 
behalf,  and  say  he  intends  no  evil,  etc.;  if 
he  in  any  of  the  above  ways,  or  in  any  oth- 
er way,  takes  the  name  of  God  in  vain, 
God  will  not  hold  him  guiltless — he  will 
account  him  guilty  and  punish  him  for  it. 
Jesus  said,  as  recorded  in  Matthew 
But  I  say  unto  you.  Swear  not  at  all 
neither  by  heaven;  for  it  is  God's  throne 
Nor  by  the  earth,  for  it  is  his  footstool

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
139 
neither  by  Jerusalem;  for  it  is  the  city  of 
the  great  King.  Neither  shalt  thou  swear 
by  thy  head,  because  thou  canst  not  make 
one  hair  white  or  black.  But  let  your  com- 
munication be,  Yea,  yea;  Nay,  nay:  for 
whatsoever  is  more  than  these  cometh  of 
evil. 
The  name  of  Deity  is  so  sacred 
that  it  should  not  be  used  frequent- 
ly. This  is  the  reason  the  name  of 
the  higher  Priesthood  was  changed. 
There  are  in  the  church,  two  priest- 
hoods, namely,  the  Melchizedek  and 
Aaronic,  including  the  Levitical  Priest- 
hood. Why  the  first  is  called  the  Melchiz- 
edek Priesthood  is  because  Melchizedek 
was  such  a  great  high  priest.  Before  his 
day  it  was  called  the  Holy  Piiesthood,  after 
the  Older  oi  the  Son  of  God.  But  out  of 
respect  or  reverence  to  the  name  of  the 
Supreme  Being,  to  avoid  the  too  frequent 
repetition  of  his  name,  they,  the  church, 
in  ancient  days,  called  that  Priesthood  af- 
ter Melchizedek,  or  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  (D.  &  C.  107:1-4). 
How  Should  We  Revere 
Sacred  Places.^ 
Reverence  for  sacred  places  has 
been  recognized  from  early  Bible 
days.    We  read  in  Genesis: 
And  Jacob  went  out  from  Beersheba, 
and  went  toward  Haran.  And  he  lighted 
upon  a  certain  place,  and  tarried  there  all 
night,  because  the  sun  was  set;  and  he  took 
of  the  stones  of  that  place,  and  put  them 
for  his  pillows,  and  lay  down  in  that  place 
to  sleep.  And  he  dreamed,  and  behold,  a 
ladder  set  up  on  the  earth,  and  the  top  of 
it  reached  to  heaven;  and  behold  the  an- 
gels of  God  ascending  and  descending  on 
it.  And,  behold,  the  Lord  stood  above  it, 
and  said,  I  am  the  Lord  God  of  Abraham 
thy  father,  and  the  God  of  Isaac:  the  land 
whereon  thou  liest,  to  thee  will  I  give  it, 
and  to  thy  seed;  And  thy  seed  shall  be  as 
the  dust  of  the  earth,  and  thou  shalt  spread 
abroad  to  the  west,  and  to  the  east,  and  to 
the  north,  and  to  the  south:  and  in  thee 
and  in  thy  seed  shall  all  the  families  of  the 
earth  be  blessed.  .  .  .  And  Jacob  awaked 
out  of  his  sleep,  and  he  said,  Surely  the 
Lord  is  in  this  place;  and  I  knew  it  not. 
And  he  was  afraid,  and  said,  How  dread- 
ful IS  this  place!  this  is  none  other  but  the 
house  of  God,  and  this  is  the  gate  of  heav 
en.  And  Jacob  rose  up  early  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  took  the  stone  that  he  had  put 
for  his  pillows,  and  set  it  up  for  a  pillar, 
and  poured  oil  upon  the  top  of  it.  .  .  .  And 
Jacob  vowed  a  vow,  saying,  if  God  will  be 
with  me,  and  will  keep  me  in  this  way 
that  I  go,  and  will  give  me  bread  to  eat, 
and  raiment  to  put  on,  so  that  I  come 
again  to  my  father's  house  in  peace;  then 
shall  the  Lord  be  my  God:  And  this  stone, 
which  I  have  set  for  a  pillar,  shall  be  God's 
house   (28:10:22). 
The  story  of  Moses  and  the  burn- 
ing bush  also  depicts  reverence  for  a 
sacred  place: 
Now  Moses  kept  the  flock  of  Jethro  his 
father  in  law,  the  priest  of  Midian:  and 
he  led  the  flock  to  the  backside  of  the  des- 
ert, and  came  to  the  mountain  of  God, 
even  to  Horeb.  And  the  angel  of  the  Lord 
appeared  unto  him  in  a  flame  of  fire  out 
of  the  midst  of  a  bush :  and  he  looked,  and, 
behold,  a  bush  burned  with  fire,  and  the 
bush  was  not  consumed.  And  Moses  said, 
I  will  now  turn  aside,  and  see  this  great 
sight,  why  the  bush  is  not  burnt.  And 
when  the  Lord  saw  that  he  turned  aside 
to  see,  God  called  unto  him  out  of  the 
midst  of  the  bush,  and  said,  Moses,  Moses. 
And  he  said,  Here  am  L  And  he  said.  Draw 
not  nigh  hither:  put  off  thy  shoes  from 
off  thy  feet,  for  the  place  whereon  thou 
standest  is  holy  ground  (Exodus  3:1-5). 
It  is  likely  that  from  this  occur- 
rence the  nations  of  the  East  have 
come  to  perform  their  religious  rites 
barefooted.  The  Greeks  did  so  in 
ancient  times  and  some  sects,  includ- 
ing the  Mohammedans,  still  observe 
this  custom.  Tourists  visiting  in  the 
Near  East  who  wish  to  go  into  a  Mo- 
hammedan mosque  today  may  do  so 
provided  they  remove  their  shoes, 
or  they  may  be  furnished  with  slip- 
pers which  have  been  previously 
blessed,  to  slip  over  their  own  shoes, 
thus  preventing  any  pollution  of 
sacred  ground. 
The  temple  of  Solomon  was   re-

140 
RELIEF   SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY    1948 
garded  as  the  most  sacred  edifice  in 
all  of  Israel.  Even  while  it  was  be- 
ing built  every  precaution  was  taken 
to  keep  it  so.  Note  the  following 
passage: 
And  the  house,  when  it  was  in  building, 
was  built  of  stone  made  ready  before  it  was 
brought  thither:  so  that  there  was  neither 
hammer  nor  axe  nor  any  tool  of  iron  heard 
in  the  house,  while  it  was  in  building  (I 
Kings  6:7). 
We  read  about  the  Court  of  the 
Gentiles  in  the  temple  of  Herod, 
which  indicates  that  gentiles  were 
permitted  to  enter  only  a  portion  of 
the  temple  area.  The  Holy  of  Holies 
was  the  most  sacred  part  of  the  tem- 
ple into  which  the  high  priest  was 
permitted  to  enter. 
An  incident  recorded  in  II  Sam- 
uel shows  in  what  reverence  the  Ark 
of  the  Covenant  was  held: 
And  when  they  came  to  Nachon's 
threshingfloor,  Uzzah  put  forth  his  hand 
to  the  ark  of  God  and  took  hold  of  it;  for 
the  oxen  shook  it.  And  the  anger  of  the 
Lord  was  kindled  against  Uzzah;  and  God 
smote  him  there  for  his  error;  and  there 
he  died  by  the  ark  of  God  (6:6-7). 
An  incident  which  demonstrates 
the  feeling  of  Jesus  toward  practices 
carried  on  in  Herod's  temple  which 
were  contrary  to  the  sacred  character 
of  the  temple,  is  recorded  in  Mat- 
thew 21:12-13: 
And  Jesus  went  into  the  temple  of  God, 
and  cast  out  all  them  that  sold  and  bought 
in  the  temple,  and  overthrew  the  tables  of 
the  moneychangers,  and  the  seats  of  them 
that  sold  doves,  and  said  unto  them,  It  is 
written,  My  house  shall  be  called  the  house 
of  prayer;  but  ye  ha^■e  made  it  a  den 
of  thieves. 
How  Should  We  Regard  Our 
Temples  Today? 
Just  as  in  ancient  times,  so  in  our 
day,  the  dedicating  and  sanctifying 
of  holy  temples  are  most  carefully 
observed.  Note  the  following  ex- 
cerpts taken  from  the  dedicatory 
prayer  of  the  Kirtland  Temple,  giv- 
en to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  by 
revelation : 
And  now  we  ask  thee.  Holy  Father,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  thy 
bosom,  in  whose  name  alone  salvation  can 
be  administered  to  the  children  of  men, 
we  ask  thee,  O  Lord,  to  accept  of  this 
house,  the  workmanship  of  the  hands  of 
us,  thy  ser^'ants,  which  thou  didst  com- 
mand us  to  build.  For  thou  knowest  that 
we  have  done  this  work  through  great  trib- 
ulation; and  out  of  our  poverty  we  have 
given  of  our  substance  to  build  a  house 
to  thy  name,  that  the  Son  of  Man  might 
have  a  place  to  manifest  himself  to  his 
people. 
That  thy  glory  may  rest  down  upon  thy 
people,  and  upon  this  thy  house,  which  we 
now  dedicate  to  thee,  that  it  may  be  sanc- 
tified and  consecrated  to  be  holy,  and 
that  thy  holy  presence  may  be  continually 
in  this  house;  And  that  all  people  who 
shall  enter  upon  the  threshold  of  the 
Lord's  house  may  feel  thy  power,  and  feel 
constrained  to  acknowledge  that  thou  hast 
sanctified  it,  and  that  it  is  thy  house,  a 
place  of  thy  holiness. 
And  that  this  house  may  be  a  house  of 
prayer,  a  house  of  fasting,  a  house  of  faith, 
a  house  of  glory  and  of  God,  even  thy 
house;  that  all  the  incomings  of  thy  peo- 
ple, into  this  house,  may  be  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord;  that  all  their  outgoings  from 
this  house  may  be  in  the  name  of  the  Lord; 
And  that  all  their  salutations  may  be  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord,  with  holy  hands,  up- 
lifted to  the  Most  High;  and  that  no  un- 
clean thing  shall  be  permitted  to  come 
into  thy  house  to  pollute  it. 
We  ask  thee.  Holy  Father,  to  estabUsh 
the  people  that  shall  worship,  and  hon- 
orably hold  a  name  and  standing  in  this 
thy  house,  to  all  generations  and  for  eter- 
nity; that  no  weapon  formed  against  them 
shall  prosper;  that  he  who  diggeth  a  pit  for 
them  shall  fall  into  the  same  himself; 
that  no  combination  of  wickedness  shall 
have  power  to  rise  up  and  prevail  over  thy 
people  upon  whom  thy  name  shall  be  put

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
141 
in  this  house;  and  if  any  people  shall  rise 
against  this  people,  that  thine  anger  be 
kindled  against  them;  and  if  they  shall 
smite  this  people  thou  wilt  smite  them; 
thou  wilt  fight  for  thy  people  as  thou  didst 
in  the  day  of  battle,  that  they  may  be  de- 
livered from  the  hands  of  all  their  ene- 
mies. 
O  hear,  O  hear,  O  hear  us,  O  Lord!  And 
answer  these  petitions,  and  accept  the  ded- 
ication of  this  house  unto  thee,  the  work 
of  our  hands,  which  we  have  built  unto 
thy  name;  and  also  this  church,  to  put 
upon  it  thy  name.  And  help  us  by  the 
power  of  thy  Spirit,  that  we  may  mingle 
our  voices  with  those  bright,  shining  ser- 
aphs around  thy  throne,  with  acclamations 
of  praise,  singing  Hosanna  to  God  and  the 
Lamb!  And  let  these,  thine  anointed  ones, 
be  clothed  with  salvation,  and  thy  saints 
shout  aloud  for  joy.  Amen,  and  Amen 
(D.  &C.  109:4  flF.). 
From  the  dedicatory  prayer  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Temple,  given  by  Presi- 
dent Wilford  Woodruff,  we  read: 
O  Lord,  we  regard  with  int-ense  and  in- 
describable feelings  the  completion  of  this 
sacred  house.  Deign  to  accept  this  the 
fourth  temple  which  Thy  covenant  chil- 
dren have  been  assisted  by  Thee  in  erect- 
ing in  these  mountains.  .  .  .  We  come  be- 
fore Thee  with  joy  and  thanksgiving,  with 
spirits  jubilant  and  hearts  filled  with 
praise,  that  Thou  hast  permitted  us  to  see 
this  day  for  which,  during  these  forty 
years,  we  have  hoped,  and  toiled,  and 
prayed,  when  we  can  dedicate  unto  Thee 
this  house  which  we  have  built  to  Thy 
most  glorious  name.  One  year  ago  we  set 
the  capstone  with  shouts  of  Hosanna  to 
God  and  the  Lamb.  And  today  we  dedi- 
cate the  whole  unto  Thee,  with  all  that 
pertains  unto  it  that  it  may  be  holy  in  Tliy 
sight;  that  it  may  be  a  house  of  prayer,  a 
house  of  praise  and  of  worship;  that  Thy 
glory  may  rest  upon  it;  that  Thy  holy  pres- 
ence may  be  continually  in  it. 
These,  and  numerous  other  quo- 
tations which  could  be  cited,  show 
that  various  places  and  buildings 
have  been  pronounced  sacred  and 
due  reverence  for  them  is  erijoined 
January 
WHITE  GOODS 
SALE 
It's  the  season  for  savings  at 
Sears.  Quality  is  at  its  peak 
.  .  .  while  prices  hit  money- 
saving  lows. 
Main  or  State  at  8th  South 
Dial  5-6651 
"W"^ 
[-^rofeddiona  I 
ana  S^oclal 
S^tat loneir J 
COMMERCIAL 
AND  EDITION 
PRINTERS  AND 
BOOK  BINDERS 
PAPER  RULING 
DESERET  NEWS  PRESS 
29    Richards    Street,    Salt    Lake    City    \,   Utah