[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Ezra J. Poulsen]

FEBRUARY 1948 _ Windy Hilltop Ezra J. Poulsen CHAPTER 1 66 THIS chilly wind ruins my complexion," Anne Raines often complained. "Well, it's clean, and if your complexion is real, the wind won't hurt it," her husband, Joe Raines, habitually bantered. Ce was no argument over such a trivial matter, In fact, more often than not, there was laughter, for Joe and Anne were young, and be much in love. Nevertheless, there were basic strains of difference in their make-up, which made it hard for them to adjust especially for Anne to adjust to the environment of their homestead tucked away in the foothills, She was thinking of this as she walked corral, where her husband had just driven in with the drill, after finishing the spring wheat planting on the dry farm. She had something on her mind to say, more likely than not to Prove as explosive as 4 bombshell. Her shapeless straw hat askew over her abundant flaxen hair, together with her pink cotton dress, gave her a youthful, rakish appearance, which was heightened by her buoyant step and slender form. A crisp little smile played about the comers of her sensitive mouth, but a shadow lurked in her eyes, Presaging a deep inner struggle. "Hello, Honey," greeted Joe, turning his grimy face toward her with a teasing smile, as he began unhitching the tugs on his threehorse team. "Well, I got done. The last round's planted, and we now have fifty acres of Wheat to tussle for with the squirrels and the drought." "That's fine, Joe Dear, but your face is so dirty I can hardly see what you look like. It's really a shame the drought and squirrels have a two-to-one chance to win," "Now, Pessimist, don't start pre- "Oh, I'm not, | merely recall] the past three lean years." Her lips Set a trifle. He uncoupled _ the sweating horses and let them go single file into the small slab stable in their clinking harnesses. Joe Raines was a tall, athletic young man, with a determined, angular face, and a hardy smile, which, at the moment, made his teeth glisten in their framework of dirty, stubby beard. "It's all ready, and and I have a letter. Della's coming in a couple of days. She's going to spend her vacation with us." "Vacation!" His voice suggested the incredible. "You mean she's coming to work on you to go back." "Well, you must be nice to her, Page 95 you know Della. She means right. Besides, don't you think her arguments are rather sound?"
Anne proposed this question with hopeful sincerity. "Oh, yes, very sound, and how convincing!" -he retorted goodnaturedly. "I can hear her greeting already. It'll run something like this: 'Joe Raines, if you don't get your wife and children out of this forsaken hole, I'll shoot you!' " Anne couldn't help smiling at this dramatic flare. 'They had discussed the situation many times, but had come to no agreement. He loved the homestead, but she loved the city. A loud creaking and vibrating sound from the hollow north of the wheat field shocked their ears, Anne gave a startled cry. Joe muttered something under his breath, ran to the stable, reappeared a moment later on one of the horses, and rode hurriedly away. No explanation was required. The range cattle were again breaking through the fence.
That was one of the routine problems on their frontier farm.
Anne went to the chicken coop to gather the eggs. Happy, childish voices floated up from the creek bottom below the garden. The sounds were like music to her ears. She called, and in a few moments Dick, her six-year-old son, and Betsy, her three-year-old daughter, answered. } "Supper's ready."
Their shouts of approval indicated their healthy appetites, as well as their physical abundance of life, as they ran towards her.
There was no doubt about their loving the farm; the complete freedom of their environment affected them as it might a pair of young fawns made them blithe and beautiful. But Anne admitted to herself, rather sadly, that lonesomeness was almost overwhelming her. She heard Joe yelling at the cattle up in the hollow. Again, the wires snarled and sang, and the posts creaked. The cattle would be over the hill in a few minutes, and Joe would be mending the fence. The sun was almost down to the ridge above the dry farm, and long fingers of shadow were creeping into the gullies and ravines above the edges of the valley. A cat zoomed across the bridge down at the creek; 4 mourning dove cooed on a distant fence; the sweet smell of spring floated up from the willows and alfalfa fields below the ditch. But Anne was positively unresponsive. She was thinking of a neat little cottage in town her most persistent dream. "You don't really mind about Della coming, do you?" she asked at the supper table, laughing apologetically. "She thinks she can possibly stand it a week." Joe took the news with a goodnatured grin, as she had expected, though she knew there would be a barbed remark about the event. "Wonderful," he declared. "I think I can put her to work digging a ditch, so she won't have time to get on your nerves by telling you what a terrible place this is. Ugh, I can hear her now, if if a coyote happens to howl." "That's not fair, Joe. You know Della's always lived in the city." "Just like her sister," he replied, affectionately. "Really, my one 

  FEBRUARY 1948 WINDY HILLTOP major sin is bringing you out into this wilderness; and, if you'll forgive me, Honey, I'll take you away soon. That's my most important postwar plan. But right now everything's uncertain.
What with strikes and food shortages. Anyway, after being in the army, I love this freedom." "Now would be a good time to begin looking for a job.
Maybe in the fall there won't be any." "And leave our grain and alfalfa?" A pained flicker shot into Joe's gray eyes. "And I want to get that ditch out." "But why get the ditch out," she remonstrated, "if you're going to sell?" "Well, it'll make the place worth more." He grinned sheepishly. "You win. I I've been hoping we could keep the place. I guess I'm just naturally a farmer." He said this as if it were a confession of weakness. "In other words, Joe, you don't ever want to sell the farm, do you?"
Thus pinned down, he resorted to another grin; and, after a long, reflective silence, he kissed his wife, and started out to do his chores. "I don't want to, but I will. By the way, Sam Hadfield made me an offer today. He'll take everything, crop, livestock, and all, if I'll sell." NNE was more in a mood for reflection than discussion; consequently, she made no reply, and when Joe left the house, she busied herself washing the dishes and getting the children off to bed. She could feel a rift growing between them, which seemed to flourish on many little quirks of circumstances, altogether simple, yet quite 97 uncontrollable; and, with a feeling of growing helplessness, she realized they both possessed fixed attitudes from which there seemed to be no retreat.
Anne had met and married Joe in the city, where she had always lived, and where she had a promising position with a utility company.
Early in their acquaintance, he had told her he owned a homestead on the outskirts of the valley in which he was born, and that he had increased it somewhat by purchase.
This had been wonderful news. It showed Joe's sense of practical understanding; and when he had asked her, half playfully, if she would like to live on it, she had answered affirmatively. 'The whole thing seemed like a youthful adventure, then. But the hard work, the lonesomencss, and the crop failures had been bitter disillusionment. Her folks had objected from the first, especially her sister Della, who declared she would expect her home within a week.
This had started the antagonism between Joe and Della, and now that Della was coming, there would be some new flare-ups. The sun was fully down when she saw Joe coming up the path, and went out to meet him. 'Well, Honey, I think we'll sell the place," he said testingly. "I think we'd better take Sam's offer. He wants me to stay, though, till fall, because he can't spare any hands from his ranch till after haying." "How much has he offered?" "Oh, well, to be exact, he hasn't set a price.
Neither have I. He'll probably pay as much as anyone." "Joe, you've changed your mind suddenly." "It's what you wanted, isn't it?" He slipped his arm around her in a playful mood. "You're going to have a nice little home exactly where you want it where there's no sagebrush, and no dust, and not too much wind." "You're making fun of me, Joe. But it's all right.
Keep on. I like it. Now, let's run up to the point and take a look at the valley as it gets dark. You know, I must see the lights to make sure there're still other people on earth. I challenge  ? You. SHE was already running. Her slender form seemed graceful and fairylike to him. He followed, and in a few minutes they reached the top of the hill back of the house, where the cool breeze struck them in the face. "Oh, I won," cried Anne, throwing herself down on the flat rock which they both agreed was officially the top. The breeze cooled her flushed cheeks and scattered wisps of her blond hair. "Yes, but you can't get away from me, he declared almost fiercely, taking her in his arms and kissing her. Shortly, the lights in the village several miles away began to twinkle like big fireflies, and the bold outlines of the main range towered against the crimson skyline, setting oft the green and black patchwork of farmlands. For a time they sat and drank in the scene. Its familiarity made it none the less impressive. The light slowly faded, and the breeze piped up a trifle harder. "I miss our hilltop rendezvous more than anything else," admitted Anne soberly. Joe gave her a swift glance. "So will I’ll imagine the memory of it will be very bright when I'm an old man the hilltop and you." "Oh, I'd love this place " she made a dramatic little gesture back toward the cabin home, with the rolling hillside and small patch of valley bottom which they called their own "if if it wasn't so tying." "Now, that's a confession." He picked the note up vigorously. "Maybe you don't want to sell."
Anne was very serious. She quickly sensed a threatening climax, but she was calm. "I'm thinking of the future: yours, mine, Dicky's, Betsy's. Yes, Dear, I want to sell." "I’ll see Hadfield at once," he decided with finality. HEN Della Olsen, Anne's sister, came, there wasn't a dull moment.
Della and Joe fought it out over farming as a way of life. In the past, Joe had not always been good-natured in these clashes, but now he was really surpassing himself. And, besides, Della, convinced that a move back to town was certain for her sister and family, abandoned her usual critical, fault-finding attitude, and showed an unusual enthusiasm for everything around her.
Even a log cabin, she admitted, could be rather attractive and somewhat homelike when located on a gentle slope near a ditch, surrounded by a garden, and possessing an attractive natural view. "It can be," she qualified, "when you are about to move away. But in the long run, give me plenty of people; I'm afraid of too much space." 
  FEBRUARY 1948 WINDY HILLTOP Joe, who was waiting in the car to take the family down to the village for some groceries, overheard Della. "We'll hurry and get you to the crossroads, so you can see a human being or two enough to last for the night." "Della's going to help me in the garden next week while you work on the ditch. Then, if you're really a thoughtful husband, you'll take us all to the city a few days when Della goes back home. I want to see mother and the folks," she declared, as they all piled into the car, including Dick and Betsy, and began rolling down the long field road toward the front gate. The first stop was at the post office where Joe ran into Sam Hadfield. He was inside an unusually long time. When he came out, his face was serious. "Well, I've sold the farm. Hadfield is going to take it this fall. I'm to stay until harvest is over." "Wonderful," cried Della, "the most sensible thing you ever did, Joe. But it's a long time till fall." "Only five months." "Yes, we can stand it that long," declared Anne, fearing her older sister might start a new crisis. Della, however, was an assertive person. "Joe, you'd better run into town as soon as possible and see about a job. I think you can get your old one back if you let them know you'll come soon. The manager of the electric company asked me about you only a few weeks ago." "But, Della, for goodness sake, at least leave me in peace for the summer. I can't go now. There's no one to milk the cows." "Oh, you can get somebody. Can't he, Anne?" 99
Anne hesitated. "Why  no.
Help is almost impossible now, Della. But, listen, Joe, I can milk for a few days. Why don't you go?" She spoke with a sudden flash of enthusiasm. "Yes, it will certainly be wise for you to go to town and try to arrange for a position in advance." "But you haven't milked very much!" "Oh, yes, I have. I can handle the cows. I can take care of everything." The little car swung into the lane from which they could see the gold of the sunset sweeping across the dry farm, "Well, Honey, if you insist, I'll go," he said, lifting his eyes to the hills. "But I hate to leave you." "But you must go," she insisted. O Anne, those words proved to be the most fateful she had ever uttered, especially since they were repeated frequently during the next few weeks.
Della had gone home, and Joe seemed content to work around the place, putting off the trip from one time to another. "Oh, do hurry, Joe, we'll be here when the snow flies, with no place to go if you don't act," she complained. "Very well, then, I'll go this very day."
There was a tartness in his voice she didn't like, but she firmly held to her point. "It's just a matter of good business, Joe, you know it is, and while I realize how you hate to leave, I'm certain it doesn't do any good to put off what has to be done!" "Honey," he spoke impatiently, "will it be all right if I leave im- mediately after dinner, or shall I go before?" He strode toward the little shed where they kept the car, his long, energetic steps leaving no doubt that his mind was at last made up.
Quickly repentant for her sharp words, Anne tried to call him back, but she seemed incapable. A moment later she heard the motor start, and she hurried into the house to fix dinner while he tinkered about the car, getting it ready for the journey. It seemed an amazingly short time before she stood in the yard watching him drive away. He had denied that he was angry, as he had kissed her and the children. "Do be careful, Honey, around the cows and horses. I'll be back as soon as possible." "And you be careful, Joe," she cried, suddenly shaken by an uncontrollable emotion. "Drive ever so carefully." As she watched the car disappear, a vague dread began to clutch her heart. Had she been wrong in demanding to be taken away from the homestead? Had she been still more wrong in her impatience? For the first time, she admitted a tinge of regret at the thought of leaving the farm.
After all, they had lived there most of the time for more than three years; and now, she felt as if it clung to her, and dared her to leave. She thought of the garden, the chickens, the cows.
Loneliness overwhelmed her as she called in the children and began to busy herself with the chores.
Even then, there was no relief. The loneliness grew into a dread, and she became frightened. If she could have called Joe back, she would have done so, She wasn't half so sure of her ability to take care of the cows as she had made him believe. 'Oh, dear me," she said anxiously to Dickie, "I do hope Daddy doesn't stay away long." But Dickie could offer no solace. He was about ready to cry himself. And that was but the beginning.
Darkness brought new terrors. Then, came dawn, bringing a shock that consumed everything else. (To be continued )  TOO FRAIL A LUTE Eva Willes Wangsgaard If I could have you in my arms again, I'd have no need of sun or moon or stars.
Such common lights are meant for lesser men, And you and I would walk the luminous bars Of everlasting morning. Should I wake To feel again your shoulder firm and strong Against my cheek, my heart would all but break  Too frail a lute to bear so grand a song. If I could feel your kiss upon my throat Or catch familiar love themes in my ear, Bluebirds would sing and apple blossoms float Above a hedge of roses all the year; And grief would be a dull, discarded feather 100
Lying unruffled in the summer weather. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FEBRUARY 1948