[Vol35 | February 1948 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Windy Hilltop Chapter]
Windy  Hilltop 
Ezra  /.  Poulsen 
Chapter  i 
4  4  r  I  iHIS  chilly  wind  ruins  my  with  a   teasing  smile,  as  he  began 
I      complexion/'      Anne  unhitching  the  tugs  on  his  three- 
Raines   often   com-  horse  team.  ''Well,  I  got  done.  The 
plained.  last   round's  planted,  and  we  now 
''Well,  it's    clean,    and    if   your  have  fifty  acres  of  wheat  to  tussle 
complexion  is  real,  the  wind  won't  for    with    the    squirrels    and    the 
hurt  it,"  her  husband,  Joe  Raines,  drought." 
habitually  bantered.  "That's  fine,  Joe  Dear,  but  your 
There  was  no  argument  over  such  face  is  so  dirty  I  can  hardly  see  what 
a  trivial  matter.  In  fact,  more  often  you  look  like.     It's  really  a  shame 
than  not,   there  was  laughter,    for  the    drought  and  squirrels  have  a 
Joe  and  Anne  were  young,  and  very  two- to-one  chance  to  win." 
much  in  love.     Nevertheless,  there  "Now,  Pessimist,  don't  start  pre- 
were  basic  strains  of  difference    in  dieting." 
their  make-up,  Vv'hich  made  it  hard  "Oh,   I'm  not.     I   merely   recall 
for   them  to   adjust— especially  for  the  past  three  lean  years."  Her  lips 
Anne  to  adjust— to  the  environment  set  a  trifle. 
of  their  homestead  tucked  away  in  He      uncoupled      the     sweating 
the  foothills.  horses  and  let  them  go  single  file 
She  was  thinking  of  this  as  she  into  the  small  slab  stable  in  their 
walked  down  the  path  from  the  clinking  harnesses.  Joe  Raines  was  a 
weatherbeaten  log  house  toward  the  tall,  athletic  young  man,  with  a  de- 
corral,  where  her  husband  had  just  termined,  angular  face,  and  a  hardy 
driven  in  with  the  drill,  after  fin-  smile,  which,  at  the  moment,  made 
ishing  the  spring  wheat  planting  on  his  teeth  glisten  in  their  framework 
the  dry  farm.  She  had  something  of  dirty,  stubby  beard, 
on  her  mind  to  say,  more  likely  "I  daresay  we've  not  been  as 
than  not  to  prove  as  explosive  as  a  hungry  as  a  lot  of  people  these  last 
bombshell.  Her  shapeless  straw  three  years,"  he  challenged,  "but 
hat  askew  over  her  abundant  flax-  Fm  hungry  now.  How  I  could  go 
en  hair,  together  with  her  pink  cot-  for  a  bowl  of  bread  and  milk  and  a 
ton  dress,  gave  her  a  youthful,  rak-  couple  of  slices  of  ham!" 
ish  appearance,  which  was  height-  "It's  all  ready,  and— and— I  have 
ened  by  her  buoyant  step  and  slen-  a  letter.  Delia's  coming  in  a  couple 
der  form.  A  crisp  little  smile  of  days.  She's  going  to  spend  her 
played  about  the  corners  of  her  sen-  vacation  with  us." 
sitive  mouth,  but  a  shadow  lurked  "Vacation!"  His  voice  suggested 
in  her  eyes,  presaging  a  deep  inner  the  incredible.  "You  mean  she's 
struggle.  coming  to  work    on    you    to     go 
"Hello,    Honey,"     greeted    Joe,  back." 
turning  his  grimy  face  toward  her  "Well,  you  must  be  nice  to  her. 
Page  95

96  RELIEF   SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY   1948 
you  know  Delia.     She  means  right,  farm;  the  complete  freedom  of  their 
Besides,  don't  you   think  her  argu-  environment   affected    them    as    it 
ments   are   rather   sound?"     Anne  might  a  pair  of  young  fawns— made 
proposed  this  question  with  hopeful  them    blithe   and    beautiful.     But 
sincerity.  Anne  admitted    to    herself,    rather 
*'Oh,  yes,  very  sound,   and  how  sadly,  that  lonesomeness  was  almost 
convincing!"     he     retorted     good-  overwhelming  her. 
naturedly.     "I  can  hear  her  greet-  She  heard  Joe  yelhng  at  the  cattle 
ing   already.     It'll    run    something  up  in  the  hollow.    Again,  the  wires 
like  this:    7^^  Raines,  if  you  don't  snarled  and  sang,    and    the    posts 
get  your  wife  and  children  out  of  creaked.    The  cattle  would  be  over 
this  forsaken  hole,  I'll  shoot  you!'  "  the  hill  in  a  few  minutes,  and  Joe 
Anne  couldn't  help  smiling  at  would  be  mending  the  fence, 
this  dramatic  flare.  They  had  dis-  The  sun  was  almost  down  to  the 
cussed  the  situation  many  times,  ridge  above  the  dry  farm,  and  long 
but  had  come  to  no  agreement.  He  fingers  of  shadow  were  creeping  in- 
loved  the  homestead,  but  she  loved  to  the  gullies  and  ravines  above  the 
the  city.  edges  of  the  valley.    A  car  zoomed 
across  the  bridge  down  at  the  creek; 
\     loud    creaking    and    vibrating  a  mourning  dove  cooed  on  a  distant 
sound  from  the  hollow  north  fence;    the  sweet  smell    of    spring 
of  the  wheat    field    shocked    their  floated   up  from    the  willows  and 
ears.    Anne  gave  a  startled  cry.  Joe  alfalfa  fields  below  the  ditch.    But 
muttered     something     under     his  Anne  was  positively    unresponsive, 
breath,  ran  to  the  stable,  reappeared  She  was  thinking  of  a  neat  little  cot- 
a    moment    later    on    one    of   the  tage  in  town— her  most  persistent 
horses,  and  rode  hurriedly  away.  No  dream. 
explanation     was     required.      The  *Tou   don't  really   mind  about 
range  cattle   were    again    breaking  Delia  coming,  do  you?"  she  asked 
through  the  fence.    That  was  one  at  the  supper  table,  laughing  apolo- 
of    the  routine  problems  on   their  getically.    ''She  thinks  she  can  pos- 
f rentier  farm.  sibly  stand  it  a  week." 
Anne  went  to  the  chicken  coop  Joe  took  the  news  with  a  good- 
to  gather  the  eggs.    Happy,  child-  natured  grin,  as  she  had  expected, 
ish  voices  floated  up  from  the  creek  though  she  knew  there  would  be  a 
bottom    below    the    garden.     The  barbed    remark    about    the    event, 
sounds  were  like  music  to  her  ears.  ''Wonderful,"  he  declared.  "I  think 
She  called,  and  in  a  few  moments  I  can  put  her  to    work    digging   a 
Dick,     her    six-year-old    son,    and  ditch,  so  she  won't  have  time  to  get 
Betsy,  her  three-year-old  daughter,  on  your  nerves  by  telling  you  what 
answered.  n  terrible  place  this  is.    Ugh,  I  can 
"Supper's  ready."  hear  her  now,  if— if  a  coyote  hap 
Their    shouts    of    approval    indi-  pens  to  howl." 
cated   their  healthy    appetites,     as  "That's  not  fair,  Joe.    You  know 
well  as  their  physical  abundance  of  Delia's  always  lived  in  the  city." 
life,  as  they  ran  towards  her.  There  ''J^st  like  her  sister,"  he  replied, 
was  no  doubt  about  their  loving  the  affectionately.     "Really,     my     one

WINDY  HILLTOP  97 
major  sin  is  bringing  you  out  into  trollable;  and,  with  a  feeling  of  grow- 
this  wilderness;  and,  if  you'll  forgive  ing  helplessness,  she  realized  they 
me,  Honey,  I'll  take  you  away  soon,  both  possessed  fixed  attitudes  from 
That's  my  most  important  postwar  which  there  seemed  to  be  no  re- 
plan.     But  right   now  everything's  treat. 
uncertain.     What  with  strikes  and  Anne  had  met  and  married  Joe  in 
food  shortages.     Anyway,  after  be-  the  city,  where  she  had  always  lived, 
ing  in  the  army,   I  love  this  free-  and  where  she  had  a  promising  po- 
dom."  sition  with  a  utility  company.  Early 
"Now  would  be  a  good  time  to  in   their  acquaintance,  he  had  told 
begin  looking  for  a  job.    Maybe  in  her  he  owned  a  homestead  on  the 
the  fall  there  won't  be  any."  outskirts  of  the  valley  in  which  he 
''And   leave    our    grain    and    al-  was  born,  and  that  he  had  increased 
falfa?"     A  pained  flicker  shot  into  it  somewhat  by  purchase.  This  had 
foe's  gray  eyes.    ''And  I  want  to  get  been  wonderful  news.     It  showed 
that  ditch  out."  Joe's  sense  of  practical  understand- 
"But  why  get  the  ditch  out,"  she  ing;  and  when  he  had  asked  her, 
remonstrated,  "if  you're  going  to  half  playfully,  if  she  would  like  to 
sell?"  live  on  it,  she  had  answered  affirm- 
"Well,  it'll  make  the  place  worth  atively.  The  whole  thing  seemed 
more."  He  grinned  sheepishly,  like  a  youthful  adventure,  then.  But
