The Prince of Ur By Homespun. What hoy, the call down came messages from the morning dawn, the cool breezes bearing swift and sweeping into the shady plain below, up to the very towers of the mighty city, rising hundreds of feet into the cloud-land above. Abram stood with his friends the Tarshish and Damascus merchants, watching the cavalcade now sweeping into sure vision under the huge brick walls of the palace and city. "It is surely Gilgames, Merodach, Nimrod," cried the merchants; "It is he the Shepherd of Uruk, the well-protected, the wise, the powerful, the perfect, he is its shepherd and its master." The vast army was panoplied and gorgeous in the rays of the rising sun. Following the great body of chariots and carts, a multitude of servants and attendants carrying various banners and burdens, richly caparisoned, and in its midst came a golden war chariot, richly appointed. He wore under his glittering armor the white robes of a priest, and as Abram looked intently at the brilliant figure that set grimly as he thought of the mockery of his father's conduct of the heavily-encrusted war-chariot of Nimrod. Then came the glittering, shining, commanding figure that his giant bodyguard seemed dwarfed in his presence. His curled hair and beard shone with riotous profusion. Half uncovered, they gleamed from side to side, they caught each passing beam between the rim and his olive-tinted skin. As they marched to the very marrow of one on whom he had fixed them with his uncovered stare. His majestic arms were uncovered where they held the reins and the glossy brown skin but covered with a light film as he moved his spear with the rapid jolting of the 
 chariot. His robe fell in finely-plaited folds clear to his feet, parting under the right arm to fall away over the huge knee and betray the richly embroidered shirt which reached only to the upper joint. Tassels of gold, and heavily twisted fringe of gold, embossed this inner garment, and added lustre to the shimmering folds of the crimson and blue glory of this outer garment. The inner shirt was of that delicate texture of linen that betrayed its importation from the looms of Damascus. As Nimrod stood in his chariot, under the rising sun of the eastern horizon, its rays glistening and glowing as they covered him with golden glory, there was such evidence of power and strength, such an aroma of kingly dignity and force about his person, that even Abram did not chide as his companion once more flung himself on the ground of the wide parapet and shouted till his voice was gone. "Merodach, the king god ? the lord of the Euphrates ? the Lord of both worlds ? hail ? god of Elkanah ? perfector of wars ? divine one ? hail ? hail!" It was the deep, full hour of the morning, and as the king stepped from his chariot, the whole populace threw themselves upon the earth and shouted, while his body-guard closed in around him, as he made entry into the narrow gateway of the city proper. Others surrounded him, as he emerged into the streets of the city, the officials of the court of Ur, and a gorgeous palanquin, with cloth of golden embroideries, garnished by waving ostrich plumes, was held over him as he marched proudly through the festal streets towards the palace of Terah. "Poor, blind mole" ? said Abraham under his breath, as his friend lay whimpering on the parapet, in abject worship over this apostate warrior, "why should I chide when even my father Terah can drag his priestly robes in the dust of man-worship, and prostitute his offices to the forming of idols to enshrine the worldly glory of this demi-god?" Abram's eye was caught at that moment by a lone chariot which had followed in the wake of the king's own car, and in it stood a solitary warrior, whose dun-colored armor and grimy chariot ill became all this procession of gaudiness. His dark brows were lowered, and his lip curled, as if in contempt, as he spurned alike the cringing shouts of the debased population and the scattered flowers of the maidens by the gateway. He stood erect, his slender and youthful form vibrating with energy as he himself held the speeding course of his steeds, and steadied between his powerful arms the spear which was untipped with gold, and which bore no gleaming colors at its base. "My kinsman, Lot, who has gone out to welcome Nimrod," whispered Abram, and his friend the merchant who now stood upon his feet echoed the words ? "'Tis Lot, the man of valor and of contention." THE PRINCE OF UR. 495 "Lot may be of firm mind," quickly defended Abram, "but he does not oppose the counsel of those over him. But come, it is time we were at our posts. The king may give audience, and we must not seem to lack in princely welcome." It was the afternoon following the return of Nimrod. The fierce sun was sinking in the west, and the breezes and dews of the river-banks were spreading gradually over the blistering plains, while men who had slept and drowsed through the torrid noontide now awoke to carousal or business as the tender gray shadows of twilight began to steal over the groves and fields, the city streets and courts. Within Terah's palace walls, there had been many and great preparations for the public audience which the king-warrior-god had promised to his faithful subjects of this lower city of Ur, The princely throne of Terah had been decked with the gorgeous royal trappings of Nimrod, the spears were fixed in shining rows around the red and gold walls of the audience chamber, the musicians were already gathered in the small balcony above the lower entrance with their kinnors, their kerens, their cymbals and tambourines and they were ready to pour out their weird minor strains accompanied by the regular palace singers, who had been drilling all day under the court music-master. A blast of trumpets announced the approach of the king. Soldiers, chamberlains, priests, scribes, all marched with clang and clash into the confined limits of this smaller palace hall. Soldiers, with spears lowered, entered the hall and ranged themselves about the edges of the walls. Nobles, courtiers of high rank, each with his silver shield, or with shining tiaras of golden bands about their brows, marched with grave decorum into the fast-filling audience chamber. The thundering of the drums' roll, the crash of the cymbals, accentuated the marching rhythm of the advancing throngs. The loud and prolonged blast of a hundred silver trumpets proclaimed the near approach of the king. Nimrod would give audience this day in the halls of the Prince Terah, his loyal vassal. Room for the king! Room, I say; room for the king of Assyria, of Babylon! Founder of empires and mighty hunter of men and beasts of human and divine origin. Room for Nimrod ? Merodach ? Gilgammes! Nimrod dwarfed the huge soldiery, the massy forms of his warriors and attendants ? all sank into comparative insignificance when the giant form of the worshiped king towered shoulders high above them all. His was indeed a goodly person. The king was robed in richest stuffs and the edges of his beautiful purple abaya were embroidered with all manner of floral designs. Upon his brow there rested a diadem of the Moon-god 
 over a conical mitre which supported two horns of slender gold and the rich mitre was covered with mystic embroideries of sinister significance. His arms were loaded with massive bracelets and his fingers with rings; a heavy necklace was hung about his thick neck, and his great ears were further emphasized by jeweled earrings hanging upon his shoulders. In his belt there protruded a shining hilt of a dagger, whose brilliant steel surface was as delicately curved as the slender horn of the new moon. As he at length entered the hall, the whole people, save his own body-guard, threw themselves wildly upon the tasseled floors, and shouted themselves hoarse with cries of ? "Merodach ? lord of the upper and the nether world ? potentate of all the earth ? supreme ruler of the universe ? god of light and heat! ? Nimrod! Merodach ? Gilgammes ? " The king looked grimly at his prostrate followers. This was no uncommon sight ? he had been familiar with it for a hundred years. But it ever thrilled him with the sense of his own greatness and majesty. His was the colossal magnetism of a throbbing, self-centered, self-worshiped personality, his own vivid conception of his personal wisdom and courage, giving color and warmth to the adulation of his hypnotized subjects. Instinctively, the thought that swept over him at this groveling exhibition was: "I, Nimrod, am indeed a marvel! The heavens and the earth bow down before me!" Seated upon his throne, he nodded graciously to Prince Terah, who took the favored seat upon the steps below the throne. Terah was very tired. His body was wearing with age and the strife between conscience and expediency. Into the hall there came messengers and ministers from many of the surrounding tribes and petty courts. The princes of the desert tribes sent presents of rarest horses, of woven tapestries, of jewels and golden tributes worth a royal ransom. In return, they asked the federated protection of Nimrod's powerful arm. And Nimrod was very gracious. Rarely had the king been in better humor. His glory was at its height, his trophies of the war and chase filled a score of hundred carts without the city's walls. Twenty fierce lions which had troubled the villages and camps about Ur had met summary death at the massive hands of this warrior hunter, on this very trip across the valleys of the Euphrates. Towns and kingdoms that had resisted him hitherto had come bending even here in Ur, to offer allegiance and to crave protection. Old as was the king, his spirit knew no feebleness nor diminution of valor. Nimrod was still lord of the whole earth. As the king sat graciously brooding over these triumphant thoughts, his eye roved about the halls, and he espied his effeminate bastard son Mardan, smooth-faced, pop-eyed, elegantly clad, THE PRINCE OF UR. 497 and with his bold shifting eyes fixed on that of his father, the king, as if to catch the very glance now directed that way. Nimrod held out his scepter. "Approach, thou perfumed suckling of a noble house. With what black magic hast thou been tickling thine inner ear, that should thus capture mine attention?" Mardan was momentarily confused. He realized that he was not a favorite with Nimrod, as was his brethren who dwelt in Babylon, for he cared more for the luxuries and safety of the courts at home, than the risks and burdens of a warrior's life on the field. But he soon gathered himself. He knew that Nimrod's eyes were very keen, yet no keener nor swifter than was his own tongue to travel the path of dulcet flattery. And a royal son who could not flatter might not always be so attractive to this old tyrant father as a bastard son who knew just where and how to lay in the tints and colors of artistic praise. Nimrod signaled to the musicians to cease their songs and clashing harmonies, and bent his huge ear very graciously down to hear the piping treble of this son of the house of Nimrod. "The woods and the waves pour their tribute into the lap of thy greatness. The lions roar thy welcome, and in thy wake their cubs cry upon the plains in desolation at thy power. Kings come to the brightness of thy rising star, and the nobles exalt the horn of thy majesty. In the heavens thou art supreme, for it was decreed that thou shouldst set up thy reign from the rivers to the ends of the earth." Conventional and studied as all his flattery was, Mardan himself had the charm of the house of Nimrod, and his dulcet tones were warm with personal admiration, while his bowed form held an altitude of sincere devotion and rapt worship that did not escape the tyrant who loved such tribute and glorification. "Thou hast wiped out a measure of thy weak, bodily offenses by thy loyal devotion of speech. But words are weak servants, ghosts of deeds that stand in the way to frighten or break the courage of him who uses them idly. What lingers behind thy words?" "Ten thousand youth with scarcely sprouting down upon their chins are ready to offer themselves as warriors in Nimrod's brave and powerful army. Two thousand virgins of all casts and nationalities are this night preparing to sit upon the sacred pavement there to win their right to woman's dower from the priest or noble who gives them nod of invitation. The loveliest of these will be chosen by myself to wait upon thy majesty's commands." "What assurance have I that my son Mardan's private choice will not fall upon those most succulent and fair?" The eyes of Nimrod pierced the bold, shifting brown orbs of 
 Mardan as he muttered his challenge. But the pale youth gave back his stare and said loftily: "My soldiers and the virgins are hostage for my chaste and pure intentions!" Nimrod bent his shaggy brows first upon Mardan, whose lustful eyes and puffed eyelids told their own story of debauchery to the keen gaze of the shrewd old potentate. But Terah, who sat at his feet full of that confidence in young people, begotten of personal ignorance of corruption, save as it flowed in outer lower channels ? Terah was quick to answer: "Do Nimrod's sons follow not the ways of the Assyrian priesthood as upright and secure in his pure manhood as Nimrod and his courtiers were abandoned and without shame. And he felt also that he had touched upon a sore spot of hidden suspicion in the old man towards Mardan, which might flare into open rebellion if he pressed the point. So he merely turned to Mardan and said: "All thou sayest is good. What more?" "The priesthood of the great temple of Ur, which thou hast thyself caused to be here erected in the plains of Shinar, are this night ready to dedicate its altars with the most holy and profound anointing of bloody sacrifice. They wait upon thy commands. The edifice is complete, the altars are ready, the victims await the knife and fire. I have the honor to be their messenger." Terah looked up at Mardan with awakening suspicion. Why this boasted familiarity with the priests of Ur? Terah had made a sharp distinction between his own allegiance to his country and to his God. Had Mardan confused these two? Again Nimrod paused. He knew that his host Terah was not friendly to the method which he ? Nimrod ? had invoked of dedicating all newly built altars by the offering of human sacrifice. Yet, Nimrod also knew that the puny will of any man, be he who or what he may, would not stop him in this inspired ghastly whim of his later years. If the populace had become fired with the wild lust of idol-worship to the extent hinted at by Mardan, and the sacrifice was ready, he ? Nimrod ? would offer it, though the very devil Merodach should rise from the lower bowels of hell to prevent. As he paused, Mardan lifted his right hand aloft, and with a sudden, but elusive gesture, he smote the left hand softly into the palm of the right, and as swiftly bent his arm with a significant gesture. His motion was so graceful, and was so smoothly, rhythmically done, that only those who understood caught at its significance. "Who are the sacred offerings?" quoth Nimrod, his hand still in his beard, where he had placed it, as if casually, yet in answering signal to his son Mardan's secret sign. As Nimrod answered Mardan, Terah gazed open-mouthed, for he had become suddenly suspicious of Mardan. "There are three of them, your majesty. Three Cushite maidens, who are virgins, as is required. They have refused to sit upon the sacred pavement, and prefer death to that delicate initiation into the Babylonian cult." "Are you preparing both death and initiation?" asked the wily monarch. "The high priest will see to that," darkly answered Mardan. Terah was now widely awake and on the alert. Just then, a great clattering noise, as of some voluble person in contention, made confusion at the entrance of the hall. The king frowned. But his displeasure was not sufficient to prevent the inrush of the screaming, gesticulating, fighting merchant of Tarshish, who had persisted in entering into the royal presence in spite of the somewhat futile efforts of the guard at the door. Behind him came the Damascus merchant Eliezer, his friend and close associate. The soldiers all knew the babbling Javanu, and who could resist the laughter-loving wretch when he set out to have his way. "What now? What now? Who comes thus unheralded into the Presence?" growled Nimrod. Although he sought to retain some semblance of democratic freedom with his rough and ready courtiers of the plains, he did not take kindly to irruptions of this sort. "Makers of devils ? molders of hell ? what do ye think ? am I a tadpole, that ye can pull off my tail and leave me to swim about in this sweating atmosphere void of lambs' wool or even my linen?" For the soldiers had clutched his tunic as he was passed jovially up to the throne, and even his inner white garment was almost torn from his loins in their rough handling. When the king saw who it was, his own features lighted up. "Sit thee down, Javanu, sit thee down. Right at my feet, old gossip of a thousand courts, and tell thy merry tales of love and conquest from which kings and scullery maids have but lately emerged. I love thy waggish tongue. Say on, thou male sparrow." Javanu, thus adjured, spent a few moments trying to bring some order into his tousled array, and then, with a shrewd thrust of his tongue into his cheek, he began the long and delightful recital of events which had made him famous in a hundred courts, and for which he was welcomed in hovel or palace. His was the true art of recital. With the sympathetic soul of the artist, he recounted the wars of Egyptia, the loves of the Lydian courts, the brawls of the fierce sons of Japhet in the highlands of the east. 
 He brought before his listeners the hot streets of Damascus, the cool meadows of Goshen, the rich courts of Pharaoh. The dark glances of houris, the proud wooing of princes, all these were woven into swift-moving tales of court and field. At its close, Nimrod asked: "What brought thee hither, Javanu?" The merchant's exalted manner dropped from him like a cloak, and he moistened his lips as he looked vainly about the audience hall for the friendly protection of his wise friend Abram. How much and how little should he tell? He had not expected to be quizzed. He only thought to exercise his beloved gift of recital; but Nimrod's quick glance noted his hesitation. Determined to pluck the trembling merchant's innermost secret from him, Nimrod bawled with deep tones: "Tell all, thou fool, or Nimrod will suck thee dry as rotten fruit in the hot sand." Thus adjured, poor Javanu motioned to Eleizer, his Damascus friend, and to gain a little time he whispered with him. But Nimrod was impatient. "What is it that you hold within your bosom? Tablets? See! They bulge out from your garment." With quick stroke, the king plucked the three tablets from Javanu's inner robe, and squinting at the seals, he said heavily: "Wouldst thou trick the king? These are royal missives, sealed with the nails of kings. I can not read their contents, but I know my kingly brothers' sign manual. Read them, I say. Read! And lest thou stumble wilfully, here is my son Mardan, he shall look over thy shoulder as thou dost interpret them." With trembling hands the merchant took from his robe the tablets he had shown to Abram, all of a private nature, and all directed to Terah. "They are sent to Terah, my lord," said Javanu, helplessly. "Well," again bellowed the king, "read them to Terah in my presence. Is he not my vice-gerent? My kinsman, my confederate? Read, I say!" The merchant began his tablets, each one being an offer to the prince for the hand of his queenly and renowned daughter ? or granddaughter Sarai. "Who is Sarai?" the question and the tablet had set the quivering body of Terah groveling in fear and anguish of soul before the throne. The loveliest flower in all his household. Protected, shielded, even more than any other of his carefully guarded women folk, Sarai was suddenly in great danger. "Who is Sarai?" Aye, who was Sarai indeed? The soldier Lot looked falteringly at his grandfather Terah, and his cousin Mardan. Here was a complication little dreamed of. The merchant Javanu realized that he had let fly a poisoned THE PRINCE OF UR. 501 arrow from his rattling tongue and love of display. The guilty merchant quaked in abject misery. The question rolled for the third time down the hall, "Who is Sarai?" This time, there stepped from the side of the hall a figure that instantly commanded all attention. If the king were tall, so was he. If the king's body were knit with sinews of steel, covered with muscles of velvety gloss, so were those which firmly outlined the massive form of Abram as he stood, unchallenged, and splendid in his manhood, erect before King Nimrod. "And who art thou?" shouted the confused and impatient king. "My name is Abram, O king, I am son of Nahor, Terah's son." "Abram!" bellowed the enraged monarch, Abram! The one whom he had thought dead and out of his way long years ago. Terah had deceived him ? him ? Nimrod ? the king. "O king, why art thou thus angry? What has Abram done to make thee thus enraged?" asked Abram calmly. But the king was rising from his throne to grasp the prostrate Terah on the step below, and there was murder in his glaring eyes. As he stooped, he was caught by the muscles of his neck in the sinewy fingers of Abram, and instantly thrown back into his seat. Without one word, Abram reared again upright and faced the glaring eyes of his kingly foe. With the motion of forked lightning, Abram raised his arm above the shoulder, and in a voice of thunder, he said: "Thou mayest be king, but thou shalt not be murderer under this roof." The tone, the superb gesture, full of hidden meaning, awed every soul within that hall. Even the burly giant on the throne cowered before those blazing dark eyes. Abram was within his rights. Even a king owed the duty of protection to the body of his host. But oh, the hatred which gushed from those glittering black eyes of the king, and behind those gnashing teeth, as Nimrod sought to answer sullenly: "Abram teaches a king his duty. 'Tis well! The king may have some future words with Abram." The words, the look, the snarling teeth of the enraged old king cut the palsied air. The soldiers who had crowded around the throne to interpose, now fell back. Terah had arisen. His own eyes were scintillating with sudden rage at the king, for the insult offered to himself and to his children. "Who is Sarai?" bellowed again the king. (To be continued.)