Notes from the Field. By General Secretary, Amy B. Lyman. It will probably be surprising to many of our readers to know that in the European mission there are 95 branches of the Relief Society. Of these branches, there are 42 in Great Britain, 9 in Switzerland and Germany, 7 in the Netherlands, and 37 in Scandinavia. In a recent report from Mrs. Ida B. Smith, who is President of the Relief Society in the European mission, we learn that the average enrollment of each Society is 23, and the average attendance is 14. During the year of 1914 and until March, 1915, 8,630 visits had been made to the sick, and $1,643.42 distributed for charity. The Relief Society members in Great Britain have made and contributed to the British Army 2,427 articles of clothing, consisting of shirts, body belts, socks, mufflers, helmets, etc., ? nearly all woolen knitted goods. These were given to the Army in response to the call of the Government. This work represents special effort on the part of the Society, as the regular Relief Society work has not been neglected in the least. These branches also contributed 488 books, pamphlets, magazines, etc., to the Army. Mrs. Smith has received many beautiful letters of acknowledgement for these useful gifts of the Relief Society, two of which we print, the second being from Her Majesty's secretary. "1 Gambler Terrace, Liverpool, "Dear Mrs. Smith: "Will you please convey to the ladies of your Society the very warmest thanks of the committee for the most generous and welcome gift of warm clothing for our soldiers. They appreciate not only the gift itself but also the kind thoughts and the sympathy with the work which prompted the senders. The demands on our store of such warm things is very heavy, so you may imagine how glad we are to have it replenished by such beautiful things as you have sent us. I am sure they will be much appreciated by those fortunate men who receive them. Once more very many thanks for your past and present help. "Yours sincerely, "Winifred Rathbone, "Lady Mayoress." NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 505 The articles made by the Societies of the London Conference were taken by President John A. Maynes to St. James Palace and the following was received: 'Friary Court, St. James Palace, S. W. "February 23, 1915. 'Hon. Lady Lawley, "Hon. Secretary, "Dear Sir: "I am commanded by Her Majesty to convey to you the expression of her high appreciation of your generosity and to thank you for the splendid gift of clothing which you have been so good as to send to the Queen Mary's Needlework Guild. "Yours faithfully, "Annie Lawley, "Hon. Secretary." The following extract from an interesting letter from Mrs. Smith to her aunt Counsellor Julina C. Smith, gives further detailed matter concerning the work in England: "Our Relief Societies throughout the European mission are still working hard. We have completed our special work for the soldiers. Our sisters have worked faithfully and well, and are still working hard. We have taken up a special work for the poor, and about 2,149 members are engaged in this noble labor. The sum of fifteen dollars, from the amount given in Utah by our Saints to be sent to this country, was distributed to each Relief Society for the purpose of buying material to make up for the poor children ? as sheets, pillow cases, night dresses, underclothing, etc. These articles can be made for about one-half less than they can be bought ready made, and the members of our Relief Societies are eager to do the work. A complete report of this work will be sent as soon as it has been finished, with the amount of money contributed and the number of articles made. Our meetings during the past nine months have been very successful. They are all held in the evenings, as most of our sisters work during the day. The president and her counselors make out the program about a week ahead. " The meeting is called to order, and, after the second hymn, the roll is called, and each member responds with a sentiment. We are trying to encourage the sisters to read and commit a little to memory each week. Many of them learn passages of scripture. Others give splendid lines from good authors, and are in this way becoming acquainted with their own voices in public. Next, we have reports of visits. 
 Then the work is distributed among the members, which has previously been prepared by a committee during the week. This is done quietly, without any confusion or talking. When the sewing is started, we have a gospel talk by one of the elders, a local member, or one of the sisters. Then we have a song, a story, a musical number, and the closing exercises. In this way we are leading the. sisters out of the rut of gossiping while they sew. They seem to be very much enthused with their work. A number of them have expressed themselves in this way: The Saints in Utah have provided the money for the poor, and the Saints in this country are performing the work. So they feel that there is a connecting link between them. They are so anxious to feel that they are a part of that great organization in Zion, and that the noble sisters who constitute the general board are interested in the work they are trying to accomplish. We are making a specialty of visiting the poor, the sick, and the sorrowful. I hope to be able to visit all the conferences in August or September. It looks as if the war might continue a year or more. Foodstuff has been on the rise. The weather has been beautiful for the past two weeks. The crops, however, are suffering for want of rain. It is claimed the potato crop is practically ruined. The people of this country can ill afford to have ruined crops this 3^ear." PROGRAM OF SEMI-ANNUAL MEETING OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. October 1st and 2nd, 1915. Friday Morning, Oct. 1st, 10:00 a.m. Organ Prelude Organist Edna Coray a. Pastorale in F (J. S. Bach) b. Adagio Op. 113 (Spohr) Hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints" Congregation Prayer Address "Soldiers Music, of the Captain" (Parks) of Welcome. . .Relief President Society Emmeline Choir B. Wells Response Mary H. Stringham, President Uintah Stake Soprano Solo, "Gates of Paradise" (King) Reports of Stakes. . . ". Stake Presidents Summary of Relief Society Activities General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman Organ Solo. Fantasia in C (Tours) Edna Coray Report of Genealogical Excursion to California Elizabeth C. McCune Instrumental Music Schettler Trio NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 507 Address Counselor Julina L. Smith Music, "Savior with Thee" Benediction (Molloy ) Choir Postlude, "Sing unto God" Arr. by Best (Handel) . .Edna Coray Friday Afternoon, October 1st, 2:00 p.m. Organ Prelude, Andante 4th Symphony (Mendelssohn)... Edna Coray Music, "Softly Now the Light of Day" (Von Weber) Choir Address Counselor Clarissa S. Williams Instrumental Music. .Profs. Willard Weihe and John J. McClellan Address Martha H. Tingey, Pres. Y. L. M. I. A. Contralto Solo, "My Heart at Thy Sweet Voice" (C. Saint Saens) Evangeline Thomas Address Pres. Louie B. Felt, Pres. Primary Association Music, "Band of Little Faces" (Parke) Choir Remarks Members of General Board Music, "The Lost Chord" (Arthur Sullivan) Chorus Little Girls Closing Remarks President Emmeline B. Wells Music, "Sanctus" (Dudley Buck) Choir Postlude, "March Solemelle" (Schubert) Edna Coray OFFICERS' MEETINGS. Saturday Morning, October 2nd, 10:00 a.m. Reports: Magazine Counselor Clarissa S. Williams Membership Ruling Relief Society Books. .General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman Duet, "Music of the Pines" (Chamberlain) Pearl White and Violet Felkins Reports: Lesson Work Theology Art Alice Merrill Home Home Economics Janette A. Hyde Nurse School Phebe Y. Beatie Relief Society History Susa Young Gates Discussion Remarks Counselor Julina L. Smith Remarks President Emmeline B. Wells Saturday Afternoon. October 2nd, 2 p.m. Testimony Meeting Note. All stake and ward officers and class supervisors are invited to be in attendance at the officers' meetings. 
 SPECIAL MEETINGS. GENEALOGY. The Genealogical Department will hold special meetings in the Auditorium follows: on the fourth floor of the Bishop's Building, as Friday afternoon, October 1st, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: Stake Reports and Discussion. Saturday, October 2nd, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: Individual Record. Tuesday, October 5th, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: Living Family Groups. Wednesday, October 6th, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: The Coming Season's Work. ART. Lender the auspices of the Relief Society Art Department, a day has been arranged for at the University of Utah, Tuesday, October 5th. At 11a. m. the visitors will meet in the Girls' Rest Room, in the Administration Building, when Dr. Joseph F. Merrill will give information on the grounds and buildings. At 1 1:30 a lecture will be given in the Archaeological Department on the collection taken from the Cliff Dwellers, by Prof. Levi Edgar Young. At 12:00 o'clock the visitors will be conducted through the Art Gallery by Chairman Alice Merrill Home. This Art Gallery contains many beautiful pictures, among them the "Alice Art Collection." At 12:30 p. m. a lecture will be given in the Museum Building by Professor George Montayne Marshall; subject, English Architecture, the lecture to be illustrated with colored slides. At 1:15 p. m. the guests may be accommodated in the University Cafeteria at a 15-cent lunch, served under the direction of Dean Lucy M. VanCott. On Monday at 4:15 p. m., a lecture will be given in the Reception Room of the Relief Society Headquarters by Mrs. Alice Merrill Home; subject, .Art and Architecture of the California Exposition.