His Wife's Talents. Elsie Chamberlain Carroll. (concluded.) "Now, my dear, so that you will be absolutely free from all worry and responsibility, I called in at Aunt Betsey's and told her of my plan and asked her if you couldn't come down there to practice for a time or two until you sort of get at yourself. She was tickled to death at the idea, so put on your hat and leave the fort to me." Kate accepted the additional change without a murmur and left him with a merry goodbye. "Stay just as long as you want to and don't worry," he called after her. "Now, kiddies," he said cheerfully, turning to the three older members of his brood (the baby was asleep) "you can just have a jolly time this afternoon playing here by father while he works." He placed his books on the dining-room table and unrolled the blanks. "Let's play wild bear," suggested one of the twins and the game was on. "Why, what's all this noise about?" demanded the father as he returned from another room a moment later where he had been looking for a dictionary. "We're playing wild bear," Barrel explained, as with a growl he rushed across the room upsetting Kathryn and her doll and bumping his own head on the table legs. When calm was gained after this first disaster the father suggested that they had better turn it into "tame bear." "All right, we'll play circus," they cried and immediately proceeded to make cages by turning chairs upside down, and improvised tents for rugs and couch covers. "I don't want to play circus," said Kathryn. "I want to sew for my dolly," and she began rummaging in her mother's workbasket to find needle, scissors and thread. Presently she held up a very fine needle and number eight thread and demanded that her father thread it for her. "Why, Kathryn, can't you thread your own needles yet? I should think your mother would teach you children a little more independence." He wrestled for five minutes with the task pricking his fingers a half dozen times and swearing as many times under his breath, then he snatched the work basket and turned it upside down on the table to find a darning needle. "Now, sister," he admonished as he handed her the threaded darning needle, "You must not bother me any more. I must get at my work." By this time the circus parade was coming up the main street HIS WIFE'S TALENTS. 487 of the village. A weird shriek from the calliope brought an answering shriek from the baby in the next room. "Now look here, boys, I can't have all this racket. You've waked the baby up already. Go into the kitchen and play and maybe he'll go to sleep again." The circus moved into the kitchen, that is the active part of it, though the tents and cages were left where they were. The baby was not to be so easily pacified, however. Frank brought him in and dumped him on the couch. He had just started to write. The baby was not used to such unceremonious treatment and set up a protest. The father looked at him witheringly. "Well, sir, you're up. What more do you want?" A louder cry was the little fellow's reply. Then Frank remembered that Kate had told him the baby must have something to eat when he awoke. This reminded him of a bag of chocolates he had brought as a treat for the youngsters. He fished them out of his pocket and emptied them into the baby's lap. For a little time there was quiet, but somehow he could not recall that elusive sentence again. He sat scratching his head when Kathryn informed him that she needed some cloth to make her dolly a new bonnet because the old one got spoiled in the ditch yesterday. "O, go away, child. Find some cloth yourself. I must work." The little girl looked in a place or two, then suddenly decided that the brown and green of the sofa pillow beside brother would make a lovely bonnet. It took her some time to haggle a piece out for she was cutting not only through the cover but through the pillow as well Soon baby began to laugh and crow and pull feathers from the hole in the pillow. The father had just got started on his work when a pitiful yowl came from the kitchen. He rushed to the kitchen to find the twins dancing up and down before the range. The cries of distress came from the oven. "What in thunder are you doing?" he demanded as he released poor tabby. "We're playing Hansel and Grettel and tabby is the wicked witch woman." "Well, can't ou think of anything but mischief? Go out on the lawn and run races." When the father returned to the dining room his attention was drawn to the baby. The chocolate had been daubed in an uneven coat over the little fellow's face and hands and feathers were sticking out in every direction. The suggestive tar and feather picture would have brought a smile to most any face, but the poor man into a chair and groaned "What next?" sank The next was the telephone. 
 "Hello, Ashton." came tHe voice over the wire.  "This is George Harding. T haven't seen you since the old days at Harvard and as I was passing through your town thought I'd stop ofif a few hours and pay you a little visit. T understand you are a family man. I am anxious to see the wife and young Gladstones as well. Are you Busy? If you're not I'll come right up. That will beat an office visit all to pieces." Frank clenched the receiver and cast one wild glance over the room. "Hold on a minute. George." he shouted. "I ? I will be down to the office right away I have a little work to do there then I'll. bring you up to supper." He slammed the receiver on the hook and looked at his watch. Surely Kate would soon be home. Why his watch must be stopPed, it was only a quarter to four. He shook it and glanced at the clock which confirmed the statement of his ticker. Good heavens had it only been three quarters of an hour since Kate left? And he had told her to stay as long as she wanted to tell the twins seemed to be having a good time, judging from the frequent shouts of merriment that came to his ears. He simply must get that document done, so he sat down in sheer desperation and began to write. Presently Kathryn stuck her needle in her finger and began to cry. The baby, who by this time was a full-fledged robin, felt rather uncomfortable and began to cry also. The father demanded that they hush, but this only seemed to increase their lung power. Slamming his books shut he got up and began to pace the floor. there didn't Why all dav. Kate come. She ought to know that he couldn't stay Tile telephone rang again. Amid the cries of the two children the father caught these words, "Is this Mr. Ashton? Well, sir, this is police headquarters. I wonder if you are aware that two of your children are interferring with public passage l:)y turning the hose onto every one who passes your place?" "Good Lord, no!" thundered.Ashton, and leaving the receiver dangling, he rushed from the house just in time to see the corpulent form of Mr. Bunker, president of the local railroad company, side step into t1ie middle of the street to the delighted shrieks of the twins, who lifted the home and showerer him a second time before their irate father could think about an adequate punishment. No doubt the thought of the Bunker bill that was coming up in court, and which Ashton and McGregor had hoped to defend, added to the vigor of the shake received by each surprised culprit as he was hustled into the house, one of them being shoved into each bed room until the father could think out an adequate punishment. Their lusty howl joined the duet already in progress. Just then Kate came up the walk, wondering at the drench ! HIS WIFE'S TALENTS. 489 path and porch. Hearing the quartet of sounds within she quickened her steps. Frank saw her coming and met her at the door, hat in hand. "I haven't been able to do a confounded thing," he informed her in a tone that somehow suggested that his wife was to blame. "I've got to get this document fixed up tonight." He brushed past as he  but her, to add. Turned toward rushed street. Harding will be here to supper," the "George Kate went in. The medley of sounds, and the chaos of the room told their own story. A little breeze sent the feathers flying in every direction. She looked at the baby who was holding out his little feathered arms. She didn't know whether to laugh or cry, so she sat down and did a little of both. Kathryn ran to the shelter of mother's skirts. Two doors opened simultaneously and two wet toweled heads peeped out. In a moment she had them all gathered in her arms and the afternoon's tragedy was turned into a comedy. Soon, with the help of the willing little hands that had made all the confusion, order was brought out of chaos and Kate began to hum softly as she planned the evening meal. Her music really did not matter so much to life's happiness after all. And the consoling thought came to her that perhaps her husband had learned that a woman's greatest talent does not lie in the field of fine arts, but in the higher field of real home making. That evening after the children had been put to bed and their guest had gone, Frank Ashton looked at his wife as if he had never really seen her before. "Kate, how on earth do you do it?"' he broke out with a genuine admiration in his eyes. "Do what?" she laughed. "Why. manage this? house and those children. Another afternoon like this one would land me in the insane asylum." "I soled. think they must have been extra trying today," she consoled "Well, I haven't given up mv plan for your music, anyhow," was his next surprising statement. "You certainly deserve that much, and you are going to have it. You know how cousin Elizabeth feels about my fixing up that mortgage for her? She's always wishing there was some way in which she could sort of pay us. Well, I called around there tonight and told her she could send her Bessie over every afternoon to take the children to the park for an hour or two while you practice. And you will never hear me again, my dear, lamenting the fact that women give up their talents and ambitions when they are married. Law, if they didn't what would become of us poor, selfish men?" (the end)