The Relief Society Woman and Her Home. So much of prose and poetry has been written about the home that one wonders what is left to say. Very little. Yet there is much for women to do daily and hourly in order to create, maintain, and develop the home. Today, more than at any other period in the world's history, there is a determined effort to break down the barriers of the home. This is not altogether the fault of the deliberate childlessness of the wife, the club attractions for both husband and wife, nor to the increasing popularity of the cosy flat in the forest of apartments which every great city multiplies. These are all but manifestations of a disintegrating force within the body social. However this may be, our Relief Society sisters are the keepers of the keys of home life and home traditions among this people, and eventually in the world; so that it behooves them to exert themselves to do all possible in this matter of bettering home conditions, and keeping the fires bright on the home altars. We are pleased to offer our associate workers the outlines in home economics. Our aim is to make the courses so simple and comprehensive that any one of our members may be able to give the lessons and also to assist in the demonstrations. Our home studies will cover a period of three years. The first period will take up Home Management, the second the Food Problem, and the third The House Itself. The first year's work will concern itself with Household Management. All of these topics will be accompanied by practical demonstration work on grains, vegetables, meats, yeast, condiments and preservatives; together with a little home preparation and experiment on food. This will prepare the way for the second year's course We can assure our friends that all will enjoy this course and 
 the homes of the sisters will benefit greatly by this extended inquiry into the whys and wherefores of our domestic problems. Home-building, home-making, and home-keeping are the highest and most beautiful professions in the world. Let us help to maintain the high standard and ideal we have always had, at the same time improving the practical and scientific side of our work, as these modern studies permit us to do. In this home-coming, home-loving, thanks-giving month of November, we are happy to present our friends with these new home thoughts and plans for our beloved homes in Zion. THE KITCHEN OF THE HOTEL UTAH. All of our readers know the advantages and the disadvantages of the individual kitchen in the individual home. Yet few have ever peeped into the airy vastness of a modern palatial hotel, with its army of servants and its staff of rigidly-trained chefs, stewards major domos, and captains of kitchen industry; its arching walls of translucent white tiling, its long expanse of porcelain tables and glistening white sinks, and silver water faucets; its thousands of lovely porcelain dishes, and baskets of gleaming silverware; its array of spotless kitchen utensils, its shining pure white expanse of floors, and its electrical lighting and modern ventilation. The linen closets, where piles on piles of snowy napery and delicate table linens are stored. There are the store rooms, where supplies are gathered in tons and barrels, and bales, to be distributed with greatest care and diligence. Nowhere in the world can so many thousands of shovelfuls be thrown out with teaspoons as in the mammoth kitchens of the modern hostelries. The manager of the Hotel Utah ? Mr. George O. Relf ? a cultured, genial, and shrewd American of the best type, came to Utah with the settled determination to make of this superb hotel the cleanest, best served, most popular hotel in the West, while putting a few gilt edges of economy on the capital there invested. With this end in view, he made the kitchen and its complete and perfect service the unit of the hotel. The results have over and over demonstrated the wisdom of his decision. A house or a hotel may be palatial, or it may be bare of all but necessities; yet, if the daily board within is spread with wholesome food, well cooked and pleasingly served, one man or all men will return to it day after day, calling it his haven and his and their best abiding place. Mr. Relf raises all the vegetables on his own farm, provides the milk and cream, puts up the delicious pickles and relishes, and even supplies the succulent watercress which garnishes the tables. The kitchens of the Hotel Utah are the last word in spotless purity of equipment, up-to-date appointments, and luxurious furnishings. One may gather some idea of the scope and quality of the service from the following descriptions: RELIEF SOCIETY WOMAN AND HER HOME. 479 It is interesting to know that all of the tiled kitchen and pantry floors slope into drains to carry off water when they are flooded, as they frequently are, for hygienic purposes. The tiled walls are as frequently washed, so that they shine with cleanliness. There is an automatic dish-washer, separate refrigerators for fowl, fish, meats, vegetables, and for eggs, cheese and butter. There is also a refrigerator for cooling cold-service foods. Then there are the steam heated racks for plates and hot dishes, another heater for keeping rolls hot and soft. There is an automatic egg boiler, and an ice plant, which manufactures all ices and candies. There is a bakery with two great ovens, and all the bread, rolls, and cakes used are made in the hotel kitchen. There are about 50 loaves and 1,500 rolls used daily. In the supply rooms for groceries, the storeroom steward has charge, but he must give a voucher for everything received and disbursed. And when you know that there is from $18,000 to $20,000 a month spent for food alone, in this great kitchen, you can realize how important the steward's position is. There is some importation of fancy vegetables and meats from the east, but the steward reports that the Utah fruits and vegetables surpass any found in other parts of the country. There is an official with the title of jardemanger who has charge of all garnishes, and when you go into the hotel and find yourself served with carrots cut into roses, and turnips into lilies, you know that this clever artist has looked after all that work. In the Silver Room, another head steward takes charge of the $40,000 worth of silver. He is a silver-smith, and an expert in his business; he cleans, polishes, and carefully preserves all of his precious ware. It is the best of silver, and nearest the Hepplewhite ever designed. A curious little item connected with the silver steward is that he is obliged to replace a great deal of this ware, which is both bought and stolen for souvenirs. Honest tourists are willing to pay well for this delightful souvenir of a visit to Salt Lake, while the dishonest ones take them at the rate of dozens of spoons monthly. Five dozen were taken within the last month from this mammoth hotel. There are $20,000 invested in china. There is a $2,500 gold service set in the china closet, which is used for state occasions. The Roof Garden Restaurant has been exceedingly popular. Forty thousand dollars was spent to put this popular resort into shape. The item of flowers alone for the decoration cost $3,400. This restaurant seats over 600 people, and yet through the hot summer months, after the theatres are out, many are daily turned away. There is an auxiliary kitchen up there, which enables them to serve everything piping hot. In the kitchen below, a little item which is interesting to note, is that the shelves for receiving used dishes, are so arranged that the person distributing them moves in a circle, thereby avoiding congestion, and facilitating distribution. These dishes are distributed by the bus boys, who take them from the waiters. There is a special room for making salad. Here a woman is in charge who has two assistants. There is a special room for making garnishes. The ranges are seventy-five feet long, and all of them burn charcoal. There are aluminum buckets in steam racks, which are used for keeping the cooked vegetables hot, while the head steward has a special room in which he arranges table decorations for parties and banquets. The head chef devises most of the new dishes, and all are made under his especial supervision. There are one hundred ten servants employed in the kitchens and dining rooms; two head chefs with four assistants, and head stewards for every department. There are 525 bed-rooms. There are from 500 to 600 people in the hotel every day during the summer months. In the winter, the average would be 400 each day, while the capacity is 650 guests, some of them occupying double rooms. Thus it will be seen that housekeeping in a hotel is as complex and as exacting as the managing of a steel mill or the financing of a wholesale dry goods establishment. No wonder that men with their supreme physical forces and masculine grasp of great problems are chosen to control and direct such gigantic enterprises.