REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE SUBMITTAL OF MATERIAL FOR "NOTES FROM THE FIELD"
THIS section of the Magazine is reserved for narrative reports and pictures of Relief Society activities in the stakes and missions. Its purpose is threefold: (1) to provide a medium for the exchange of ideas and methods for conducting Relief Society work which have proved successful in some organizations and which may be helpful and stimulating to others; (2) to recognize outstanding or unique accomplishments of Relief Society organizations; (3) to note the progress of Relief Society work in various parts of the world. It is recognized that personal accounts of individuals who have long served Relief Society, or who have otherwise distinguished themselves, are always of great interest, but the space available for "Notes From the Field" is so limited in relation to the number of stakes and missions that it must be reserved for reports on the work of the organization rather than that of individuals.
Wards and branches desiring to submit reports for publication in "Notes From the Field" are requested to send them through the stake or mission presidents. It often happens that one or two wards or branches in a stake or mission will send reports on special activities which are being conducted on a stake-wide or mission-wide basis, and, in such instances, it would be to the advantage of the stake or mission to have the report cover the entire activity in the same issue of the Magazine, with all participating wards or branches represented.
Where narrative reports are submitted, with or without accompanying photographs, the name of the stake and ward, or mission and branch, should be given, together with the title of the activity reported, the date, and other pertinent data, including the name, address, and position of the person making the report.
Pictures which are submitted for publication can be used only if they are clear and distinct and will make good cuts for reproduction. Black and white glossy prints reproduce most satisfactorily. Pictures should have the following information written clearly on the back:
Name of stake and ward, or mission and branch Title of picture, stating the activity represented or the purpose of meeting of the group Date picture was taken Name, address, and position in Relief Society of person submitting the picture
Identification of persons in the picture should be made on the reverse side. Names should be given from left to right, written clearly, and spelled correctly. The given names of the women should be used, not their husbands' names (for instance, Sarah D. Erickson, not Mrs. James Erickson).
The positions of the executive officers: president, counselors, and secretary-treasurer should always be listed with their names.
If the photograph has reference to some particular activity, such as sewing, visiting teaching, etc., the name of the leader and her position should also be listed.
Material submitted for "Notes From the Field" should be addressed to the General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah.
 NEBO STAKE (UTAH), PAYSON SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS AND PARTNERS AT A BANQUET January 31, 1946 Photograph submitted by Nadine Brown, Relief Society President of Payson Second Ward when this photograph was taken, now president of Nebo Stake Relief Society. EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, NORTH CAROLINA WEST DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY Leone W. Doxey, East Central States Mission Relief Society President, reports a delightful banquet celebrating the 104th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. 'The banquet was held in the ballroom of the O'Henry Hotel in Greensboro, North Carolina, March 16th, 1946. More than one hundred fifty men and women attended. At one end of the room on a raised platform was placed a large birthday cake. Each of the twelve presidents of the Relief Societies in the district was invited NOTES FROM THE FIELD 687 to light one of the candles on the cake. An effective pageant was presented representing the lives of the General Presidents of Relief Society. Sister Olive W. Webb was in charge of the banquet and Sister Winifred B. Roberts conducted the program. President and Sister Graham H. Doxey of the East Central States Mission and the district presidency and their wives were guests. The North Carolina West District Relief Society officers are: Vena W. Draughon, President; Ruth S. Gulledge, First Counselor; Olive W. Webb, Second Counselor; Winifred B. Roberts, Secretary-Treasurer. EMIGRATION STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), UNIVERSITY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING GROUP Front row, seated, left to right: Marilyn Stobbe; Vadna Matson, Second Counselor; Augusta Stobbe, President; Shirley Ann Stobbe; Etta Cowles; Fern Robison, First Counselor; Mary Lou Stobbe. Back row, standing, left to right: Alice Malin; Elizabeth Rickenbach; Lillie Sorenson; Grace Woodbury; Thelma Clark; Henrietta Thurman; Rachel Taylor; La Ree Snow; Clair Sprunt. From Emigration Stake, where Lillie C. Adams is president of the Relief Society, a report of the sewing activities in the University Ward has been received through First Counselor Fern Robison: "During the past winter, 1945-46 the women of the University Ward Relief Society pledged themselves to support a most helpful and thrifty project, that of making their own clothing. Good materials were scarce, but there were many members of the Relief Society group who had at their disposal good materials in pre-war garments, and, with careful planning and cutting, these were fashioned into stylish, good-looking clothes. The president, Sister Augusta Stobbe, completed two dresses and a suit for herself, plus suits for each of her three daughters. The work director, Sister Vadna Matson, assisted each member, in turn, as difficulties arose. By March 17th, the group wardrobe was completed. A fashion show was staged during the evening of March 17th while the University Ward members were being entertained at a banquet in commemoration of the 104th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. In the above photograph each of the women is wearing the dress, suit, or hat which she made for herself." Photograph submitted by Fern L. Robison. 688. WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), POCATELLO FIRST AND THIRD WARD BAZAARS Emily S. Romish, President, West Pocatello Stake Relief Socicty, reports two very successful bazaars. At the First Ward bazaar various kinds of children's and infants' clothing were displayed, together with a large number of sheets, pillowcases, rag rugs, aprons, crocheted doilies, pinafores, pajamas, quilts, dolls, pincushions, and many other useful and beautiful articles. The Third Ward bazaar was composed of eight different booths, each of which included well-made and useful articles of great variety. Photographs of three of the eight booths are shown on the opposite page. WEST POCATELLO STAKE, FIRST WARD BAZAAR Upper picture, handwork section, left to right: Martha Ross; Grace Richards and Karen Jensen, counselors; Sarah Jensen, work director; Allice Jensen, president; Myrtle Stoddard; Olive Larsen; Thora Brown, secretary-treasurer,; Mamie Bird. Lower picture, cooked food section, left to right: Lillian Eggleston; Lael Mausey; Ada Goodersham. NOTES FROM THE FIELD  WEST POCATELLO STAKE, THIRD WARD BAZAAR Top: left to right: Lucy Wardle, sewing chairman, in charge of pillowcase booth: Evelyn Thornock, in charge of tea towels; Sylvia Seelas, in charge of baby booth. Middle: left to right: Stella Price, President Pocatello Third Ward; Marie Hiltabrand, in charge of quilts; Maude Selover and Elva Neeley in charge of miscellaneous booth. Lower: Left to right: Louise Richardson and Etta Walker in charge of the cake booth; Verda Reid, Secretary; Violet Hart, First Counselor; Veta Leyland, Second Counselor, in charge of bazaar.  BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), BASIN BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Front row, left to right: Darlene Hansen, organist; Lottie Wehr, First Counselor; Verla L. Smith, President; Lova Kinghorn, Second Counselor; Ona Scott. Back row, left to right: Ethel Parkins; Louise Tuttle, Magazine agent; Helen Parks; Plet Avery; Clara Smith; Mae Scott, Secretary-Treasurer. Grace E. Allphin, Big Horn Stake Relief Society President, reports that the Basin Ward has been outstanding in all phases of Relief Society work. Photograph submitted by Grace E. Allphin CALIFORNIA MISSION, VENTURA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Seated, left to right: Mary Cotterel; Janet Watt; Julia Johnson. Standing, left to nght: Lillian Johnson; Afton Hodgson; Lavera Curtis; Suzanna Blair; Mae Badger, Frances L. Broadbent, Secretary-Treasurer; Thyra Hale, Second NOTES FROM THE FIELD 691 ? COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH ), MURRAY THIRD WARD VISITING TEACHERS First row, seated, left to tight: Elsie Wiseman; Belle Breakfield: Kate Peterson; Marie Evans; Mary Nelson; Ella French; Arick Kezerian; Josephine Miller; Louise Barthell; Margaret Chivrell; Marguerite Allington; Lottie Evans, First Counselor. Second Tow, standing, left to right: Afton Wallace; Billie Parker; Mary Sabine: Effie White; Clara Knight; Paula Stephan; Duella Hamblin; Kate Morris; Effie Miller; Mary Parker; Bernice Drown; Amber Palmer; Margaret Dawes; Lorene Tranter; Bertha of approximately twelve families each. Five districts comprise a region, presided over by a supervisor. The record achieved has been the result of faithful check-up work by the supervisors, who have acted, also, as extra teachers within their regions, Williams; Myrtle Themos; Mildred Williams; Elma Eskelson. Sister Ella R. Croxford is President of Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, Photograph submitted by Dora W. McMillan, President, Murray Third Ward Relief Society.  COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH) MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES These women have been instrumental in bringing the Magazine subscriptions for Cottonwood Stake from 26 per cent in 1942 to nearly 100 per cent in 1945. Photograph submitted by Sister Ella R. Croxford, President Cottonwood Stake Relief Society.  NEW YORK STAKE, QUEENS WARD, (NEW YORK) RELIEF SOCIETY CONCERT Left to right: La Var Jenson of Ephraim, Utah, piano soloist and accompanist; Earlene Christensen, former Brigham Young University student, pianist; Emily Wright, former student University of Utah, reader; Olive Harris, formerly of Richfield, Utah, soprano; Ruth Miller, pianist. Sister Vera H. Hales, President of Queens Ward Relief Society, in describing this unusually fine concert, reports that a letter of invitation was sent to all the ward Relief Society members and friends. The program of classical music was most ably presented before a large audience, April 26, 1946. Grace C. Woolley is president of New York Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Vera H. Hales NOTES FROM THE FIELD 693 SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), CLARKSTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS For three consecutive years the visiting teachers of the Clarkston Ward have achieved 100 per cent in their activities. Anne M. Farr is president of Smithfield Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Sister Archulious B. Archibald, ward Relief Society President. INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA), CENTINELA WARD PAGEANT, "THE GATE BEAUTIFUL" From Inglewood Stake, where Josephine E. B. Prestwich is president of the Relief Society, a report of the pageant, "The Gate Beautiful," has been received from Josephine Bullock, President of Centinela Ward:  "The pageant was presented March 19, 1946, in commemoration of the organization of the Relief Society. Two outstanding features of the pageant were the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith given 104 years ago to the sisters of the Relief Society; and the reading. By President Josephine Bullock. Of the counsel of President George Albert Smith written for the sisters of the Relief Society today. The program was closed by the congregation singing 'Praise to the Man." After the benediction, refreshments were served." Photograph submitted by Josephine Bullock SOUTH OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), EIGHTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY EASTER PAGEANT Standing, left to right: Beatrice Loftgreen; Louise Swan; Edna Buss; Nellie Van der Zee; Delecta Davis; Elizabeth Lochhead; Edith Quigley; Hilda Halverson; Walter Buss; Mabel Howey; Hellen Hansen; Norma Thomas; Ellen Allred; Minnie Doctor. Seated, center: Mary P. Lambert, Second Counselor, Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, and composer and director of the pageant. Under the direction of Sister Olive M. C. Christiansen, Stake Relief Society President; Sister Nina J. Langford, Stake Secretary-Treasurer, in submitting the above photograph, reports: "The pageant was produced by the Relief Society women in the Sunday evening meeting, March 4, 1946, and was repeated at the Mother's and Daughter's program preceding the South Ogden Stake quarterly conference, May 9th." Photograph submitted by Nina J. Langford NOTES FROM THE FIELD 695 MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA), COOLIDGE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, seated, left to right: Jewel Ray, Second Counselor; Rena Goodman, President; Minnie Wing, First Counselor; Charity Brewer. Second row, standing, left to right: Clara Wootan, Secretary-Treasurer, Betty Ellis; Gladys Ray; Ruth Tiffany; Vilate Jones; Ada Chesley; Opal Moody; May Tiffany; Florence Busby. Sister Vida D. Brinton is president of Maricopa Stake Relief Society. The president of Coolidge Ward, Sister Rena Goodman, reports the following activities: "We are just a few in number and are scattered over a thirty-mile area, but we manage to attend our Relief Society meetings. Our popular activity is sewing, most of which is done for our bazaar which is held each fall. Items made for the bazaar include: pillowcases, dish towels, aprons, and children's wear. Last year most of the articles were made from mash sacks. Each month at our work meetings, we Serve refreshments and give recognition to all of the members having birthdays during that month.", Photograph submitted by Rena Goodman ?> CROCHETING Dorothy J. Roberts Beauty flows from her finger tips, The twinkling needle, the tinted yarn, Delicate as a baby's lips. The woman is young OF she is old, Her home small or elaborate, The day is warm OF the season cold. All or any, she only knows Ecstasy as her fingers fly, Fulfillment as the pattern grows. UE} DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 20 The Educational System Developed Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, January 7, 1947 Objective: J(NOWLEDGE of truth brings: freedom. The Master throughout the days of his mortal existence strove ever to teach men this underlying principle of life. He knew that men could not be free to think, free to act, and free to live unless they also were free in agency to seek after truth. So important is free agency for men that God is ever willing to hazard the difficulties which always attend its continuance upon the earth. To relate this thought to the rise and development of the educational system of the restored Church, let us once again think of the opening vision that brought the light from heaven in our-day. "If any of you lack wisdom" (James 1:5) read the young Prophet. In this world men will always lack wisdom and will thirst for its acquirement. The significant thing about Joseph Smith's lack of knowledge is to be found not so much in his limited opportunities to know, as it is in his discovery of the channel through which all great truth comes, namely, the asking of God. It is this fact that looms high above all others if one would explain the astonishing de Page 696 To show that God would have his children seek after all that is good. development of the educational system among the Latter-day Saints. From the organization of the Church, on April 6, 1830, to the present day, the way to better living for the Latter-day Saint people has been illuminated intelligent search for all things of worth, to be found "above the earth, in the earth and below the earth." "The glory of God is intelligence." "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance," revealed the modern Prophet, (Doc. And Cov. 93:36 and 131:6). What a spur these thoughts have been to modern Israel! They stir the imagination to purposeful acts and give new meaning to the utterance of the Savior, "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:32). With the knowledge of the new but eternal way of laying claim to the fountain head of all wisdom, young missionaries of the newly restored Church went forth. Most of. These young men were unlettered in the scholastic sense in which one would point to an educated man today. Yet the lack of formal schooling did not dampen their spirits. They felt that as their Prophet and LESSON DEPARTMENT leader might go directly to the Lord for help, they too, might seek his counsel. As the Church membership increased, and as the desire to know more of God's revealed word grew, Joseph Smith sought to bring his elders together in groups to instruct them. It is significant that he founded "The School of the Prophets," and chose for the place of its meeting the top floor of the Kirtland Temple. So inspirational were the classes held in the sacred building that practical men, like Brigham Young, who attended, never forgot the need for educational training in the cause of Zion. The search for truth, it was taught, should be constant and always enjoined by prayer. In one of the revelations given through the Prophet, at Kirtland, we read the following: Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home; things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms. That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you (Doc. And Cov. 88:78-80). With such words from the Lord, there can be no limit to the search for knowledge. All that is good and true in the learning of men, God would have his children know; and 697. Has promised that his grace would attend their teaching and study. Such an inspirational call for leadership in learning left the practical builders of Zion a clear assignment for the erection of schools and academies of higher education. Latter-day Saints would accept all that was good in secular training and then add to such the blessings of the spirit which come through a study of his word. Latter-day Saint schools have always provided instruction for the physical, as well as the spiritual nature of man. The college song of the leading Church institution of higher learning, Brigham Young University, includes this phrase, "The head, the heart, the hand united must be true." How fittingly significant these words suggest the basic philosophy of Latter-day Saints' teaching. Let us consider the "head." From the earliest beginning of education the teacher's calling has been to train the mind, to provide lessons that would provoke clear thinking, and arrange fitting exercises for the development of logic. The love of scholarship often overshadowed the teaching of physical fitness. The "heart" truly inspirational teaching has as its central objective the training of the emotions. These spring from the heart and find their fountain source in the gospel. All true wisdom and understanding must come from God and so, in the best of learning situations, there must be that true instruction of him who knoweth all things. One cannot graduate from a Church school without training in the emotions of the heart. ' The "hand" educationally, the 698 name of Brigham Young will always live among the Latter-day Saints and the world. Not alone because of the many schools he founded, but because of the practical emphasis he placed upon learning. In one of his sermons delivered in the Tabernacle, in October 1860, he said: Educate a young man in mineralogy in our schools, and what does he know? Take him into a field, where you think he will be useful, and you will find that one of the most unlearned of men who has made a little practical study of this subject will go around him a dozen times a day. Why? Because the educated cannot apply what he has received. Educate him as a surveyor. Well, he has to go into the field to labor and practice for a long time before he becomes proficient in that department. The education is good, but where the school drops them we leave them, and the result is, they have to get some other occupation to make a living. Where are the shoemakers and the manufacturers of woolen and cotton goods? Is there a man educated in Utah that can go right into a woolen or a cotton factory and understand the business? Is there a man that can go into the South and take up the business of manufacturing cotton goods? There is not such a man educated in the state, unless he is down South, and I doubt there being any there who can go into the cotton factory and know what to do with the machinery and the cotton. This is a languishing industry in Utah. There was an ox killed in one of the settlements with a certain brand on the hide. That ox hide was sold, and in about eight or ten months it returned to that settlement in the shape of sole leather, with the same brand on it. From the time it left Wellsville until it was returned here it had passed through the hands of eleven men, and we paid them for handling it. This is the system that we have been following. If it had not been for the mercy of God, who saw our ignorance and slothfulness and put it aside, this people would have been poor in temporal circumstances in these mountains. But I do believe that the time has come and sufficient information has been given us, that if we do not take hold of these things and do them properly God will make us responsible and we will suffer for it. I believe in education, but I want to see the boys and girls come out with an education at the fingers' ends as well as in their brains, that they may be able to support themselves. Take our girls who are educated and receive commissions to teach, and if they cannot get schools what do they do? They clerk in a store or do something or other that people can do who have had very little education and their time has been wasted, because their education has not been in the right direction. I believe today that God intends that this people shall take hold of these manufacturing institutions, and put their sons and daughters to such labor as is suited to them. Educate them in these things as well as in letters. If we don't do this, where shall we draw from for men with the capacity to build up Zion and make it a perfect home? It has been stated that Utah includes within her borders all that is necessary to make the people wealthy. But we are neglecting the very means that God has put in our hands to educate our children the right way. The time has come, in my opinion, when our schools, instead of having-so much in the line of gymnastics should give good manual training. They are good to develop the muscles it is true. If they developed them with the hoe, or the axe, or the plow, or something that is useful, it would do them more good. If we could have our little farms, our blacksmith shops, our turning lathes, our carpenter's shops, our factories, and educate our children in these things as they go along, we would turn out men who could be moulded and used for the benefit and upbuilding of the Zion of our God. Zion has to be built up, and we want men who are capable of superintending in every department. God designs that men should be educated for this purpose (Conference Reports, October 1860, PP. 44-45)- The threefold philosophy of instruction, so much a part of Brigham Young University graduates, stands out today in the lives of this great institution's sons and daughters. In all fields of useful endeavor the men and women of Brigham LESSON DEPARTMENT Young University are to be found. They possess not only the scholarship and practical training a well-rounded education affords, but, what is most important, they are given an emotional poise that can only come where religious instruction is given under the inspiration of the Priesthood and by those having authority to teach the truth, not merely the philosophies of religious thought. And so, out of the lack of wisdom which sent a humble youth to seek his Maker, has come a great Church with its attendant institutions of higher learning, its seminaries, and its Institutes of Religion. Wherever Latter-day Saints are gathered in numbers, on the grounds of high schools or the campuses of colleges or universities, there the Church has reached out to provide the teachings of the Lord. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. A noted educator of a great eastern 699 university once made the following remark about Latter-day Saints he had come to know as students during his years of instruction at the institution: "How can a Mormon but succeed as a scholar when he believes God is walking beside him in his studies?" What teachings in our Church would implant such a belief in the youth? Read Do. And Cov. 88:67-80. Spend time discussing verse 67 of this passage. 2. Who may have claim upon the "Light of Christ,' who upon the "Gift of the Holy Ghost?" Read Doc. And Cov. 88:1-13. Compare verse 4 with verses 11-13. Will the answer to this question explain how all men of learning have arrived at truth? 3. One who would ascend the heights of learning must first be humble. Discuss. Read Doc. And Cov. 88:117-127. What are the lessons you would take to a student which are to be found in the passages assigned for reading in section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Give the class time to find and comment upon a choice. The complete story of the founding and development of an educational system among the Latter-day Saints cannot be outlined in an hour's lesson. Its spirit and purpose, however, may. For the teacher who would prepare more fully this lesson the text, Mormonism and Education by M. Lynn Bennion, is suggested. The many charts, lists of founding dates for schools and academies, personal accounts of leading men who brought about a system of learning for the youth of Zion are therein all interestingly recorded. TRIOLET Merling Dennis Clyde Harvesting love is best each year; Sowing freely to hearts that yearn; Leaving the rest to God, my dear. Harvesting love is best each year. No seed quite leaves the garden sere, Surprising with a quick return. Harvesting love is best each year; Sowing freely to hearts that yearn. Visiting Teachers' Messages Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 4?Courage President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, January 7, 1947 Objective: To show that courage, an outstanding virtue, was possessed by the pioneers; not alone courage to meet physical dangers, but also courage to meet spiritual pitfalls. PIONEERIN Western America one hundred years ago was a hazardous undertaking. It was fraught with trying difficulties, stubborn obstacles, and many serious dangers. 'There were roadways to be made, rivers to ford, and mountain ranges to cross, all in a wilderness which was inhabited by wild animals and barbarous red men. Notwithstanding all these difficulties and dangers, the Mormon pioneers went bravely forward and undertook this gigantic task. Motivated by their religious convictions and their desire for freedom, and with implicit faith in the project, there was engendered within them a courage that was remarkable and outstanding; a courage which enabled them, from the very beginning, men and women alike, to meet with valor and daring their difficulties and problems; a courage which seemed to lift them up, to help them over hard places, to help them to overcome or banish fear, discouragement, and futility;-a courage which helped them to feel and realize that their sacrifices would ultimately bring a rich reward; a courage which enabled them to resist and overcome spiritual pitfalls. Leaving Nauvoo in the dead of winter, February 4, 1846, the saints crossed the Mississippi River on the ice, and formed their first camp at Sugar Creek. It was nine miles from Nauvoo, their beloved city, which they could still see in the distance, and which most of them would never see again. Whitney says: That night, a bitter night, nine children were born in tents and wagons in that wintery camp. How these tender babies, these sick and delicate women were cared for under such conditions, is left to the imagination of the sensitive reader (Whitney, Orson F., History of Utah, Vol. 1, page 249). During all the days of pioneering, quite as important as any other contribution made by the pioneer woman, was her moral courage and inspiration. One of the bronze plaques on Utah's Seagull Monument, located on Temple Square, Salt Lake City, and "Erected in grateful remembrance of the mercy of God to the Utah Pioneers," portrays the pioneer woman. She is the inspiration of the group in which she is placed. She stands erect beside the man, who, with drooping head and relaxed muscles is plainly disheartened.   The children are weary and_ with unfaltering faith into the blue listless. It is the woman, with head of heaven and sees the gulls coming up and muscles tense, who looks to save the crops. Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4 Stitches and Seams Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman For Tuesday, January 14, 1947 Objective: To practice stitches on pieces of cloth brought to class by members; to discuss bastings, kinds, and uses. Textbook reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapters 4 and 5. Stitches [ is the desire of every seamstress that her completed garment shall have a professional, finished appearance. The cause of many clothes having a homemade look is due to pulling the thread too tightly when stitching. Enough play should be _ allowed for smoothness, as well as strength, in seams. The running stitch is the basic process of all fine needlework. It is a series of short, even stitches requiring a particular muscular technique which is acquired only with practice. Gathers, shirrs, and tucks are all made with the running stitch technique, the difference being in the application of this stitch. Bastings are simple running stitches used for temporary joinings, some of them merely holding the pieces together while they are stitched. Seams and Edges Seams and edges make the structural lines of the garment. They give shape and design, and they form "eyepaths" along which the eye travels. Hence, it is very necessary that they be finished to perfection. To seam is to join two or more pieces of fabric together. Artistic seaming requires skill in the handling of material and finishing. Seams are judged on the right side for their beauty; on the wrong side for their security. Never cross one seam with another until the first has been pressed and finished, is the tule which governs artistic workmanship, and the master rule for good tailoring. It is desirable, when sewing seams on very thin material, to sew the material over thin paper. Assignment for February: Bring cut-out garment. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men (Romans 12:18). LESSON DEPARTMENT 701  Revealed in Its Literature Lesson 3?Youthtime of a Nation Dedicated to Freedom Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, January 21, 1947 IP VAN WINKLE by Washington Irving, is at once a delightful old tale and a portrayal of contrasts. Before the henpecked Rip wandered off and fell into his long, strange sleep, his home town was a quiet Dutch village with its quaint folk and quaint colonial ways. When he awakened twenty years afterwards, and wandered back home: He found the house gone to decay? the roof fallen in, the windows shattered, and the doors off the hinges.... He called loudly for his wife and children; the lonely chambers rang for a moment with his voice, and then all again was silence. He now hurried forth, and hastened to his old resort, the village inn but it too was gone. A large, rickety, wooden building stood in its place, with great gaping windows,... And over the door was painted, "The Union Hotel, by Jonathan Doolittle." Instead of the great tree that used to shelter the quiet little Dutch inn of yore, here now was reared a tall naked pole,... And from it was fluttering a flag, on which was a singular assemblage of stars and stripes. All this was strange and incomprehensible. He recognized on the sign, however, the ruby face of King George,... But even this was singularly metamorphosed. The red coat was changed for one of blue and buff, a sword was held in the hand instead of a scepter, the head was decorated with a cocked hat, and underneath was painted in large characters, GENERAL WASHINGTON. There was, as usual, a crowd of folk about the door, but none that Rip recollected. The very character of the people seemed changed. There was a busy, bustling, disputatious tone about it, instead of the accustomed phlegm and drowsy tranquility. He looked in vain for the sage Nicholas Vedder,... Or Van Bummel, the schoolmaster, doling forth the contents of an ancient newspaper. In place of these, a lean, bilious-looking fellow, with his pockets full of handbills, was haranguing vehemently about rights of citizens, election, members of Congress, liberty- Bunker's Hill, heroes of seventy-six and other words which were a perfect Babylonish jargon to the bewildered Van Winkle. The appearance of Rip, with his long, grizzled beard, his rusty fowling piece, his uncouth dress, and the army of women * and children that had gathered at his heels, soon attracted the attention of the tavern politicians. They crowded round him, eyeing him from head to foot, with great curiosity. The orator bustled up to him, and... Inquired "on which side he voted." Rip stared in vacant stupidity. Another short but busy little fellow... Inquired in his ear "Whether he was Federal or Democrat."... "Alas! Gentlemen," cried Rip, somewhat dismayed, "I am a poor, quiet man, a native of the place, and a loyal subject of the King, God bless him!" Here a general shout burst from the bystanders: "'A tory! A tory! A spy! A refugee! Hustle him! Away with him!" It was with great difficulty that the self-important man in the cocked hat restored order. Rip, as those who know the classic story will recall, finally was brought out of his tangle of troubles, restored to his children and friends. Gradually he came to a realization of some of the revolutionary changes that had taken place during his protracted sleep. He was told that there LESSON DEPARTMENT had been a war that the country had thrown off the yoke of Old England and that, instead of being a subject of His Majesty George the Third, he was now a free citizen of the United States." Rip was indeed not the only one who was a bit bewildered over the changes that had come to America. It took many of the freed people some time before they could adjust themselves to the new liberties they had won. In the light of what is happening in various countries over the earth today, with freedom thrust upon them by the second world war, it should not be difficult to picture our own nation in its youth time. There was just one basic difference then and now: young America had no clear, set pattern of self-government to follow. This, in large measure, had to be constructed. Words from Lincoln's Gettysburg Address state with force and clarity the serious problem that challenged the leaders who founded our country: Four score and seven years ago our Fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. ) That was a grave question with many who saw the rise of young America and even helped in shaping its beginnings would the nation live and last as a democracy? Folk, long accustomed to live under a monarchy, had sincere misgivings as to the outcome. Winning a war is one thing; winning a just and lasting peace is an- 703 other. It takes, as all the world is right now - beginning keenly to realize, the highest wisdom of peace loving leaders to resolve a conflict ?to turn the hearts and minds of men from destructive to constructive ways of life. Can we do it now? War, like a magnet, draws folk of different classes together to make common cause against a common foe. It was so with the Thirteen Colonies. Unity brought victory; what then? Naturally, with the enemy of all vanquished, there was a tendency for each colony to go its Own separate way. Would America, thus weakened, fall to another strong power? Will the nations, torn by dissensions, lose today what was so dearly won? Something of this kind, remember, happened to the Children of Israel. Led by Joshua, they had retaken the "Promised Land." Then, each of the tribes resettled its assigned portion. With the unifying force that had held them together during the conquest lessened, they suffered repeated attacks from surrounding enemies until they began to clamor for a king. This, Samuel, the great high priest, at first denied them; but when the word of the Lord came to the effect that the foolish people, having forsaken God, should be given their own unwise way, a king was appointed to rule them. Would youthful America repeat such history? Some felt strongly that a monarchy would be best for the new nation; and one went so far as to propose to Washington that he be king. The suggestion brought a stinging rebuff to the one that made it. In his poem "Washington 704- the Nation Builder" Edwin Markham wrote: When fortune flung him a crown, he flung The bauble back and followed the people's dream. How then, if not as a monarchy, could the young nation survive? How could the lofty ideals set forth in the Declaration of Independence be maintained? How might there be builded a "government of the people, by the people, for the people," that would "not perish from the earth?" A clear, sound answer came through another inspired document, the Constitution of the United States. This great charter of our liberties, we should remember, came as a rich fruitage of centuries of struggle and sacrifice on the part of patriots. It sets forth, with clarity and force, basic principles of freedom for which they fought and sometimes died. Its prime originality lies in the fact that here, for the first time, the world was given, in writing, a solid foundation for liberty. Our young nation wisely adopted it as the "Supreme Law of the Land." Its central purposes are clearly set forth in the preamble: We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this CONSTITUTION for-the United States of America. "We the people" is the phrase of most vital significance. It represents a long climb upward from "I the king." It was clear recognition on the part of the framers of the Constitution of the prime source of fundamental rights and power in government: these rest in the people. Officers chosen freely by popular vote are but representatives of the people who honor them by such selection. This was made plain in the great charter. The Bill of Rights ten amendments specifically protecting the people in freedom of religion, of speech, of the press, and in other rights was adopted in 1791. These fundamental, and natural rights are now, as someone has said, "ingrained in our American natures." Many folk, who enjoy the blessings of peace and protection of their precious rights under our Constitution, seem to take these for granted. They appear to think little of the long years of struggle and devotion to great principles that it has taken to give us this bulwark of our liberties. If they did, they would bow their heads in gratitude for the patriotic men and women who gave their lives for liberty; and for the Founding Fathers whose vision, devotion, and courage gave us a new charter for the freedom they won. It was with a heart full of gratitude for these blessings that Joseph Hopkinson created, in 1789, the first of our national anthems, to be sung at the inauguration of our first president, George Washington, who had justly won the tribute: "First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen." With the background of this study to add significance, lines from that old song will ring with new meaning: Hail Columbia, happy land, Hail! Ye heroes, heav'n-born band, Who fought and bled in freedom's cause, Who fought and bled in freedom's cause, LESSON DEPARTMENT And when the storm of war was gone, Enjoyed the peace your valor won! Let independence be our boast, Ever mindful what it cost, Ever grateful for the prize, Let its altar reach the skies. Sound, sound the trump of fame! Let Washington's great name Ring thro' the world with loud applause! Ring thro' the world with loud applause! Let ev'ry clime to freedom dear Listen with a joyful ear; With equal skill, with steady pow'r, He governs in the fearful hour Of horrid war, or guides with ease The happier time of honest peace. Refrain: Firm, united let us be, Rallying round our liberty, As a band of brothers joined, Peace and safety we shall find. While Washington, who had spurned a kingship, and had presided over the group of men who framed the Constitution, is naturally to be accorded first place among those Founding Fathers, there were other statesmen who should not be forgotten. Benjamin Franklin gave ripe wisdom to the work; Alexander Hamilton added his helpful contributions; while James Madison, not only gave invaluable assistance, but preserved an official and also intimate record of the proceedings. Besides these there were other fine, devoted minds to aid in laying the solid foundation for our new nation. Let it not be thought that this was to be the end of the building. It was indeed, only the beginning of a daring venture. Days immediately ahead would test the firmness of the structure that had been raised. Not only that, but the people themselves had to learn how to conduct themselves in accordance with the basic rules for self-government laid 705 down, or what they had built would be destroyed. Washington, as first President, had to meet serious internal disturbances like that of the "Whisky Rebellion." With firmness and justice he dealt with the problems, and strengthened the young nation. For eight years he guided its destinies through sun and storm; then, refusing a third term of office, he retired to a well-earned, less arduous service as proprietor of Mount Vernon. Respect for our new. Nation was being won at home, with pride growing in its achievements. How to win it abroad was the serious question. How to keep out of entanglements with foreign powers, as Washington in his Farewell Address advised, was an ever-present problem. It is still with us. During the youth time of our: country, England and France were in an almost constant state of war. Both these nations rather arrogantly encroached on our rights as a free power; there was disregard, especially of the "freedom of the seas." Our Yankee ships came into clash with these and other offenders. Finally, during the administration of James Madison, a second war came with England. Fortunately, because Great Britain's hands were full with the struggle to defeat Napoleon, this War of 1812?so-called?was of comparatively brief duration. It was at this time that our stirring anthem "The Star Spangled Banner" was created. A brief analysis of that song will serve here in two ways: First, it will help to show the spirit of the young nation; and second, it should help us to sing the song with deeper understanding and more fervor than is usually done. Remember, first, that it was created during a critical battle. A British army had just taken our national capital. President Madison and his officers had been forced to flee. 'The British fleet, flushed with triumph, suddenly appeared before Baltimore, another key city, and launched an attack on Fort-McHenry, above which floated the Stars and Stripes. Francis Scott Key, a young American lawyer, trying to arrange for the freeing of a friend who was on one of the enemy ships, was held prisoner there while the battle to tear down his country's flag was on. Through the long night he paced the deck anxiously, waiting the doubtful outcome. Finally, to relieve his feelings, he took from his pocket a letter, and on the back of it wrote the lines that have rung down the years. Anxiety, uncertainty as to the battle's outcome, is the spirit of the first stanza: Oh say, can you see, by the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars, through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming! In other words, is our flag still flying? Is the poet's troubled question. O say, does the star spangled banner yet wave, O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave?" The second stanza is one of recognition and answer to the first. Morning breaks, and? On the shore, dimly seen through the mists of the deep, Where the foe's haughty host in dread silence reposes,; What is that which the breeze, o'er the towering steep, As it fitfully blows, now conceals, now discloses? Now it catches the gleam of the morning's first beam, In full glory reflected now shines on the stream; Then comes the line of joy and triumph? "Tis the star spangled banner! May it wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave. Oh, long The third stanza, sometimes omitted, yet a vital part of the song, is a taunt to the foe in defeat: And where is that band who so vauntingly swore That the havoc of war and the battle's confusion, A home and a country should leave us no more? Their blood has washed out their foul footsteps' pollution. Finally comes the crowning stanza one of dedication: Oh! Thus be it ever, when free men shall stand Between their loved homes and the wat's desolation! Blest with victory and peace, may the heaven-rescued land Praise the Power that hath made and preserved us a nation. Then conquer we must, for our cause it is just, And this be our motto: 'In God is our trust.' And the star spangled banner in triumph shall wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave.  LESSON DEPARTMENT In light of this brief analysis, how unthinking and unappreciative is the common practice over the country of singing only the first stanza of our national anthem. If time permits of just one stanza, certainly 't should be the last one. This breathes the true spirit of our America, It has profound meaning for our nation always. Our flag ? symbol of liberty through righteousness has inspired poets through the years. Another lyric created during the youth time of our nation by Joseph Rodman Drake, vibrates with the joy and uplift inspired by Old Glory. Following are typical stanzas from this poem "The American Flag." When Freedom from her mountain height Unfurled her standard to the air, _She tore the azure robe of night, And set the stars of glory there; She mingled with its gorgeous dyes The milky baldric of the skies, * And striped its pure, celestial white With streakings of the morning light; Then from his mansion in the sun She called her eagle bearer down, And gave into his mighty hand The symbol of her chosen land.  Flag of the free heart's hope and home, By angel hands to valor given; Thy stars have lit the welkin dome, And all thy hues were born in heaven. Forever float that standard sheet! Where breathes the foe but falls before us, With Freedom's soil beneath our feet, And Freedom's banner streaming o'er us? Dr. Timothy Dwight, one of the earlier presidents of Yale University, also gave us an ever-popular song of intensely patriotic spirit. Its first stanza follows: O Columbia, the gem of the ocean, The home of the brave and the free, The. Shrine of each patriot's devotion, A world offers homage to thee. Thy mandates make heroes assemble, When Liberty's form stands in view; 707 'Thy banners make tyranny tremble, When borne by the red, white, and bine All these, and other poems, are expressive of the spirit that brought our young nation into being and held it true to its course through the earlier years. In that same spirit of true patriotism, of trust in God, the author of liberty based on righteousness, America has carried on thus far triumphantly through all its testing difficulties. And, if our nation remain true to its divine trust, it will continue to be a land of freedom? a pattern for all the rest of the world. Discussion and Activities 1. A. Why does winning a peace require the highest type of Christian-minded statesmanship? B. Quote words from the Savior on the high place of the peacemaker. 2, a. Why were the days immediately following our war for freedom sometimes called the Dangerous Days? B. How did the making and adopting of the Constitution hold our nation true to its course as a land of freedom? 3. Quote from our Prophet Joseph Smith, or from President Brigham Young, statements to show that Latter-day Saints hold that the Founding Fathers were inspired in their work of creating this charter of our liberties. 4. What is implied for the world in these lines from Longfellow's "Building of the Ship?" Sail on, O Union, strong and great! Humanity with all its fears, With all its hopes of future years, Is hanging breathless on thy fate! 5. How does a clear knowledge of the story of the youth time of our nation help one to appreciate problems being faced today by other nations in their struggle to win peace and lasting freedom? 6. What is one thing that comes from such a study as this that makes you more appreciative, more grateful for out America? References A brief history of the United States? such as a school text will give essential facts concerning the period covered in this study. Constitution of the United States? usually found in history books. An inexpensive book, containing the Constitution and six other great documents, "which constitute the American way of life," is The American Canon, by Daniel L. Marsh? Abingdon-Cokesbury Publishers. (This little volume is well worth possessing. ) The Golden Book of Favorite Songs, Hall McCready, Co., Chicago used in M. I. A. ?contains many of our national and other typically American songs. Untermeyer, Louis, American Poetry to Whitman. John C. South, The Story of Our Country in Poetry, contains other lyrics. Fiction portraying this period of our nation's youth time is not so rich as that for some other periods. A few novels of merit dealing in general with the epoch are: The Conqueror, Atherton; Tree of Liberty, Elizabeth Page; Dri and I (War of 1812), Irving Bacheller; Captain Caution, Kenneth Roberts. Optional lessons in 2b sou of a literature, The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 4 Repentance Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, January 21, 1947 REPENTANCE is listed as the second principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ, following logically the principle of faith. When one has acquired and developed an abiding faith in God and the saving power of Christ's atoning sacrifice, it is natural to seek release from the painful remembrance of one's former unrighteous conduct. The process by which this release from the consequences of sin is attained is the God-given principle of repentance. Sin is the violation of the pattern of living that is pleasing to God. Any departure from the course that God has given for the welfare of his children falls into the classification of sinful living. Many, however, are in great need of a repentance from wrong-believing and unChristian teachings. Until there is a repentance from these errors of doctrine, there can be no true acceptance of the atonement of Christ or the concept of a loving God and Father. To hold to erroneous beliefs would be offensive to God and *Latter-day Saints distinguish between a universal or unconditional salvation and a conditional or individual salvation, including exaltation. President John Taylor wrote: "He (Jesus) bore the weight of the sins of the whole world, not only of Adam, but of his posterity: and in doing that, opened the kingdom of heaven, not only to all behevers and all who obeyed the law of God, but to more than one-half of the human family who die before they come to years of maturity, as well as to the heathen, who,  LESSON DEPARTMENT, 709 having died without law, will through His mediation be resurrected without law, and be judged without law, and thus participate, according to their capacity, works, and worth, in the blessings of His atonement." (Taylor, Pres. John, Mediation and Atonement, pp. 148-149). We read in the Articles of Faith: "The individual effect of the atonement makes it possible for any and every soul to obtain absolution from the effect of personal sins, through the mediation of Christ; but such saving intercession is to be invoked by individual effort as manifested through faith, repentance, and continued works of righteousness.... Exaltation is given to those only who by righteous effort have won a claim to God's merciful liberality by which it is bestowed.... In the kingdom of God there are numerous degrees or gradations provided for those who are worthy of them; in the house of our Father there are many mansions, into which only those who are prepared are admitted." (Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith, pp. 89, 91). Keep the one who believed in them estranged from the love and forgiveness that God desires to grant to those who seek him with repentant hearts and receptive minds. The process of repentance is a step-by-step change in life, voluntarily done on the part of the penitent wrongdoer. One theologian has named these steps, "Recognition, Remorse, Resolution and Retribution the Four R's of Repentance." They represent a good summary of the process by which one seeks to change his life and become a worthy Christian. Before one can commence the work of repenting, there is need to be aware of having sinned. This brings the person to a condition in which he recognizes the nature of the sin that has been committed, and he becomes convinced that he did wrong. This first step is often one of the most difficult in the entire repentance process. We are so prone to justify our own conduct, that we have difficulty in convincing ourselves that we are guilty of wrong-doing. Nephi spoke of this condition of human frailty when he said: Yea, and there shall be many which shall say: Eat, drink. And be merry, for tomorrow we die; and it shall be well with us. And there shall also be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God-he will justify in committing a little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God.... And thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell (II Nephi 28:7, 8, 21). Once, however, having gained a conviction that there has been a wrong done, the next step should be a regret or feeling of remorse because of the evil that has been committed. Unless this feeling of sorrow enters the soul, there is little likelihood that there will be any true repentance. 'There are innumerable souls who do wrong, frankly admit it, but seem to feel no remorse as a consequence of their acts, and go gaily along the path of continuous sinning. However, if the remorse is really present, the sinner desires to be relieved of the effects of the sin? both upon himself and upon others if they were involved by his conduct. In this condition, he seeks his Maker, supplicating for forgive- ness and confessing his sins. 'The confessing of sinful conduct is one of the greatest benefits that comes from repentance. 'The Lord has instructed us that we are required to confess our sins and stated that this was the test of real repentance. By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins behold, he will confess them and forsake them (Doc. And Cov. 58:43. See also 19:20; 42:88-92 and 61:2). 'The act of confessing, although painful, has a wonderful effect upon the soul, giving it a new view of God's love and forgiveness, and a feeling of having overcome the sin, through recognition of it. Surely the embarrassment of confession is a small price to pay for the priceless boon of a relieved conscience and a feeling of oneness with God which it brings. There follows a third step that is necessary in the repentance plan. Recognition of wrong-doing and regret are not sufficient. The-test of the genuineness of repentance comes in the determination of the former sinner not only to forsake his sin, but in the resolution to sin no more. This is, of course, another test in the process to gain release from sin. True repentance consists of forsaking the sin and returning to it no more. The success of the repentance process is measured at this stage by the firmness and sincerity of the resolution to sin no more. One who has been caught in the act of sinning may be forced to go through the first two steps because of external pressure brought to bear upon him, but the resolution to refrain from future sin is a matter of the will, not of force. If possible, the repenting sinner should, lastly, undertake to make restitution for the sins already committed. Sometimes this can be done by returning stolen goods or money, giving service to those against whom the sin was committed, or making other compensation for the evil done. In other cases a sincere confession of guilt or an apology may suffice. In still other cases, the retribution may have to remain on the mental level of improved thinking, that sinful beliefs may no longer hamper the free exercise of the mind. The apostle Paul, following his conversion, devoted his life to the Christian cause, feeling this to be the least that he could do to compensate for the evil that he had performed when persecuting. The Christians. In this way, he hoped to make the restitution as great or greater than the sin for which he held himself accountable. The parable of the prodigal son is an excellent illustration of these stages in repentance. After the willful separation from his home and family, and at the end of a period of sinful living, the young man found himself engaged as the most menial of all the hired laborers on a farm a feeder of swine. Famine prevailed, and he envied the hogs who were able to eat, wishing that he might partake with them of the unpalatable husks upon which they existed. At this stage, the parable records, "he came to himself," that is, he came to recognize his sinful life. He had remorse as he thought of his former home and envied his father's hired help, who were much better off than he. Then came the resolution, "I will arise and go to my father."  LESSON DEPARTMENT Here was the resolution to leave his sinful world. At home again, he said, "Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, And am no more worthy to be called thy son:" He was seeking only to be classed as one of his father's hired helpers (Luke 15:11-32). Jesus pointed out in this ever-new story the steps that occur in the process of a sinner finding himself and returning to his God. In this dispensation the Lord has given specific commandments to the Church concerning its responsibility to preach repentance. 'To Hyrum Smith he said, "Say nothing but repentance unto this generation." To John Whitmer, the Lord said, "".... I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me...." (Doc. And Cov. 11:9; 15:6; see also 16:6; 19:21). To Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer was given this glorious promise with their call to missionary service: Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, 71 and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! (Doc. And Cov. 18:10-15) Repentance is more than just a routine by which the sinner repents and accepts God and finds his Savior. It is a continuous process that must be practiced throughout life. Our concept of eternal progression should teach us that we must continually strive to repent of bad habits of action and thinking, and replace them with better ones. These again must give way to still greater improvements in habits of thought and conduct until we overcome all sin. Repentance is a principle of growth that should be practiced along with faith throughout mortality. Questions and Activity Problems 1. In what sense is confession a part of true repentance? Trace the steps taken by the repentant sinner in ascending from sin to the good life of a follower of Jesus Christ. 3. Have a class member give a reading from Alma 32:6-16 and Alma 34:28-35. This selection might be read to the accompaniment of soft music as a stimulating introduction to the lesson.. 4. During the lesson encourage the expression of appreciation for an understanding of the principle of repentance. Wv Reading and References Doctrine and Covenants, 64:9, 10. Talmage, Articles of Faith, 109-116. Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 148, 197, 240. Smith, President Joseph F., Gospel Doctrine, pp. 117, 118. Social Science The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 3 The Importance of Child Training Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday. January 28, 1947 Lesson Link: In the previous lesson, ""The Family Organization," we considered essential attributes of husband and wife and the rights and responsibilities of various members of the family. In this lesson we will discuss fundamental principles of child training, stressing the importance of the good example to be set by the parents. Objective: To give specific guidance in child training and to stress the need of developing sound practices in the important calling of parenthood. HILD training is an art of the _first order. Intelligent application of this art is perhaps needed at the present time more than any other thing. Child delinquency has assumed such alarming proportions as to indicate that parents may not be fulfilling their responsibilities toward their children: It is a lamentable fact that often no preparation is made for this most important profession. Education and training are demanded in all phases of business, science, and other fields of endeavor, but in the most noble profession of all, that of parenthood, no training is expected. There are courses in child training being given in our universities, and more students, particularly _ girls, who will be the mothers of the future, should study these courses. Child training demands a great amount of self-control and common sense on the part of parents. Children react so differently to the same experiences that it is a puzzle to always determine the proper treatment. We know that each child is individual in his make-up and that the same rules cannot be applied to everyone alike. There are some principles of child training, however, which are fundamentally sound and which, if consistently followed, will build sound characters. Essentials in Child Training First of all, child training should begin very early. Solomon of old said, "Train up a child in the way he should go; and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6), Parents too often underrate the intelligence of a child by thinking he knows very little until he can talk plainly. The day a child is born is the time to begin his training. Behavior patterns begin from that day. Habits in order, in courtesy, in control of the emotions, and many others, can be taught very tiny children. Most of the routine habits and standards of conduct can be well defined in preschool years. Child training must be persistent to be effective. No habit is formed except by repetition. President McKay gave the following quotation of Luther Burbank, the great plant wizard, who said:  LESSON DEPARTMENT Above all, bear in mind repetition the use of an influence over and over again, keeping everlastingly at it. This is what fixes traits in plants, the constant repetition of an influence until at last it ls irrevocably fixed and will not change. You cannot afford to get discouraged. You are dealing with something far more precious than any plant the precious soul of a child! One of President Grant's favorite quotations also bears out this idea: That which we persist in doing becomes easier for us to do; not that the nature of the thing itself is changed, but that our power to do is increased (Gospel Standards, page 355). In a certain kindergarten, it was the rule that the children remove their own galoshes and set them neatly in a closet. It was necessary to remind the children of this responsibility a varying number of times. One child was reminded seventeen times before. This habit became fixed. Example is a vital principle of child training, and wields more influence than all the preaching that may be done. A proper example is the greatest assurance parents have that their children will grow into upright citizens. Children are great imitators and are very susceptible to the things they see. Brigham Young said: If parents will continually set before their children examples worthy of their imitation and the approval of our Father in Heaven, they will turn the current, and the tide of feelings of their children, and they, eventually, will desire righteousness more than evil (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 322; 1941 edition, page 208). It is in the home that children learn to distinguish between right and wrong. Standards are set by the parents. It is quite useless to 713 say, "Do as I say, but not as I do." The story is told of a Sunday School class in which the teacher was reciting the evils and consequences of drinking beer and liquor. After she had gone on at some length, a small boy raised his hand and said, ""Teacher, it isn't wrong to drink beer. My mama and daddy drink beer." His parents had set the standard and what they did was right to him. The attitude parents have toward Church authorities and sustaining the law of the land is very important. A child will learn to criticize the General Authorities and to disregard the law more readily by hearing criticism in the home than in any other way. Children develop attitudes of what they consider to be right and wrong largely through the attitude of the parents shown by disapproval or rewards in regard to their actions. Those acts which bring upon the child disfavor or punishment come to be avoided and to be regarded as wrong by the child, while those which bring praise and commendation become desirable and, therefore, in the mind of the child are right. This is as it should be. If a child is shown no displeasure for the transgression of rules, he sees no reason why he should not repeat the act. Likewise, if a child is given no praise nor encouragement from performing well a prescribed act, he will see no incentive for repeating it. A child should learn that happiness comes through conformity to right principles; freedom is really conformity to right principles. Many authorities on child welfare believe parents are lax in administering both punishment and praise. For  a number of years the trend was not to inhibit a child, and the pendulum swung so far in that direction that in many homes restraint became almost entirely removed. 'This resulted in disrespect for parental guidance. Restraint is good for everyone young and old. An eminent child psychologist has said it is the responsibility of parents to prepare their children to do without them. This, at first, may sound rather heartless, but is right, nevertheless. Children should be trained to take their places in the world, to be able to stand on their own feet, make their own decisions ?in other words, they should be equipped to meet life. Essential Principles What principles of training contribute to successful adulthood, which ones equip a child to meet life? It is very important that children be given responsibility and that they learn how to work. From early childhood they should be given regular duties and assignments. Many children, especially those living in cities, are asked to do very little. Parents who do not find work for a child to do, who do not teach him to be proud of honest toil and to do his work well, are doing that child a grave injustice. There is no reason why boys in the city, lacking farm or other outside duties, should not help with the housework, scrub floors, clean the basement, wash windows, etc. Because it requires so much time and patience, mothers are prone to do many things themselves rather than train the children to do them well. 'This is detrimental to the children. Dependability is a virtue of great worth and should be implanted in a child at an early age. Jimmy Done was expected, among other things, to fill the woodbox each evening. One evening he played ball with the boys until quite late, came in tired, and, forgetting the wood, went to bed. Brother Done came home from a meeting about ten o'clock, saw the woodbox empty and Jimmy asleep. He awakened the boy, made him dress and go out in the dark for the wood. This was not an unkindness, but good training in dependability. A child should never be allowed to neglect an assignment or slip away without fulfilling it. Continuous follow-up work is therefore necessary and it. Will prove very worthwhile. Never tell a child to do anything unless you see that he does it. Firmness without undue severity will bring results. Parents should always keep the promises they make. Quoting Brigham Young: What did you promise your little girl if she would do so and so? Did you promise her a present for well doing? "Yes." Have you recollected it? '"'No, it has gone from my mind," says the mother. If she does ill have you promised her a chastisement? "Yes." Did you keep your word? You have not, and the child forms the conclusion in its own mind directly that the mother tells that which is not true.. If you wish to make them presents, do so; if you promise a chastisement, keep your word (Discourses of Bigham Young, pp. 325-326; 1941 edition, page 210). Teamwork is important in the home, all pulling together and each member receiving due recognition. Sometimes, though parents may be wholly unconscious of so doing, the child that is the most demonstrative, LESSON DEPARTMENT or the youngest, or the most aggressive, ls given more favors and advantages than the others. This should never be, for it is unfair treatment. Children sense it very keenly and resent it. Along with laxness in maintaining parental authority has come also a let down in courtesy. Nothing is so refining as the little words and deeds of consideration to others which spell politeness. It has been said, "Courtesy is understood in any language and is an open sesame to the doors of strangers." Only when courtesy is practiced in the home does it really become a part of one's everyday life. Respect for the rights of others is an integral part of courtesy. Methods of Correction Correction and chastisement are often necessary in training children. We may pattern our conduct in such matters on the words of the Doctrine and Covenants given as advice to Priesthood members: Reproving betimes with sharpness. And then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy. Stern issuing of commands may bring temporary response from small children, but older ones may rebel against too severe parental authority. President Joseph F. Smith has said: More can be accomplished for good by unfeigned love, in bringing up a child, than by any other influence that can be brought to bear upon it. A child that cannot be conquered by the lash, or subdued by violence, may be controlled in an instant by unfeigned affection and sympathy (Gospel Doctrine, page 368). 715 President George Albert Smith has said, "Love people into doing things. If you cannot get them to do as you wish through love, there is no other way." Bring up your children in the love and fear of the Lord; study their dispositions and their temperaments, and deal with them accordingly, never allowing yourself to correct them in the heat of passion; teach them to love you rather than to fear you.... (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 320; 1941 edition, page 207). Isolation as a means of correction for young children is most effective. Nonconformity to rules results in the child being taken away from the group. Kindergartens and nursery schools use this method of control. A magazine article disclosed the fact that this was the method of punishment used in the rearing of the Dionne quintuplets. Some authorities on child training say that a punishment should be related to the offense whenever possible. A child who does not bring his tricycle in at night should not be allowed to use it for one or two days. If Mary does not come when called to help wash and dry the dishes, she should have to do them alone the next night. If Jack does not come in from play when called, tomorrow he should forego that pleasure. Love Versus Indulgence There is a form of parental love which is detrimental to children. It is the love which indulges to excess. Sometimes parents say, "Well I don't want my children to have as hard a life as I had," or "I want to give my children a lot of the things I couldn't have." They do not realize that many times they are making 716 their children selfish, proud, and ungrateful. Someone has - said, "Mothers too often rule with their hearts rather than with their minds," inferring that mothers sometimes indulge children because they are softhearted, even though wisdom would tell them it is not right. Some parents are so sympathetic they cannot administer punishment even when they know it is deserved. President Joseph F. Smith has said: God's ways of educating our desires are, of course, always the most perfect.. And what is God's way? Everywhere in nature we are taught the lessons of patience and waiting. We want things a long time before we get them, and the fact that we wanted them a long time makes them all the more precious when they come.... It is... Most unfortunate for children when their parents greatly weaken or almost wholly destroy the children's capacity for the enjoyment of some of the most wholesome pleasures of life. The child who has everything he wants and when he wants it is really to be pitied, for he has no ability to enjoy it.... It is just as wrong systematically to give a child everything he desires as to deny the child everything (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 372- 373). Real love recognizes the value of wise guidance, gives affection its proper place, and deals gently but firmly with the child. Constructive Influence of Praise Every human being desires recognition to be accepted by the group. This is an inborn desire and, for normal development, this need should be satisfied. * Many children are starved for praise. Most parents would not think of letting their children go hungry or without adequate clothing. But they do let them go for months without a word of praise or approval. Encouragement is oxygen to the soul. Children love to rate in the eyes of their parents. Condemnation is bitter and failure deadens ambition. Children, and adults as well, need encouragement to give zest to living, to build initiative and _self-confidence. A boy never left home because of encouragement and kindness, but many have left home because they never received any approval. An experiment was conducted in a school for the blind, while the students were learning to typewrite. It was found that when the children were praised for their work, they could type more words per minute than when they were scolded. Praise inspires children to live up to their highest possibilities. Many years ago in Naples there lived a boy and his mother. 'They were poor but the boy wanted one thing in life to become a singer. His teachers discouraged him, telling him he would never become an opera singer because the range of his voice was so limited. Only his mother praised and encouraged him. As time went on, she said she saw improvement in his voice and encouraged him to continue. She worked hard and sacrificed to pay for his lessons. Because of his perseverance and his mother's encouragement, he became one of the world's greatest tenors Enrico Caruso. There is no failure except from no longer trying. There is no defeat except from within. Mothers, remember that training your children is the most profitable business in which you can engage. LESSON DEPARTMENT Your household tasks should be secondary to training the children. A clean house and well prepared meals are essential but the habits which your children form are of much greater importance. Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss the importance of parental example in child training. 2. Why is it important that children be given responsibility? Discuss. 3. Is courtesy in the home important? Discuss.. 4. Have members who have reared their families tell successful methods of child training. 5. What results have you experienced with isolation as a means of correction? Discuss. 77 6. What are the harmful results of overindulgence? Discuss. 7- Give illustrations wherein encouragement spurred individuals on to great achievement. References Discourses of Brigham Young, Family," pp. 318-328. Grant, President Heber J.: Gospel Standards, "Women, Marriage and Family Life," PP- 154-156; Pp. 354-355- McKay, President David O.: "Marriage and Divorce," page 239, Improvement Era, May 1945. Pratt, Orson: "Plain Talk to Parents," page 147, Improvement Era, March 1946. Smith, President Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, "Marriage, the Home and the Family," Pp. 357-374: West, Roy A.: "Family Eternal." The PARADE Grace M. Candland The summer has passed; its quiet parade Of budding. And bloom and its cooling shade Are only a dream, a faded brocade. What joy I have missed I scarcely can guess, The flight of the hours and ceaseless stress 'Have blinded my eyes to earth's loveliness. I am quite sure I neglected to go Down to the creek where the wild roses grow, Or look at the fruit-laden trees below. But autumn is here, its colors outspread, My hunger for beauty is amply fed, And I shall enjoy this glory instead. IN SIBILANT REGRET Courtney Cottam When Autumn fills October's solitude With anthems born in loneliness and grief, The twig-lace shadows emphasize its mood Of quietness; each sere and frost-crisped leaf, Drifting to earth, intones a slow motet; A song of sorrowing and soft lament, Fall's requiem in sibilant regret, | A broken whisper from its soul, now spent. My heart, in close affinity with fall, Stirs with strange moods, primeval and intense, Stalking the years, entangling my soul; It is as if some haunting, distant call Binds with the Autumn's earthy, pungent scents. The sorrow-songs of earth into one whole. GOLDEN NUGGETS OF THOUGHT A charming little book that everyone likes. Pocket size carry it with you. Choice quotations from the writings of the wise. The title describes the book. $1.00 HIGHWAY HELPS LIGHTS ALONG LIFE'S GREAT HIGHWAY Short discussions (150 of them) on the gospel and other subjects. Each offers 5 to 15 minutes of inspirational reading and food for more and better thinking. $2.00 AND ALL LATTER-DAY SAINT BOOKS Wouldn't you like to have hand home. A price list of all the boo in your of the Church? It is free to you for the asking. Just | write your name and address very plainly and | mail to: EZRA L. MARLER BOOKS BY MAIL P. O. Box 267, Salt Lake City. Utah CAs should always be the result when energy is expended. Yet. Like a dizzily spinning top. Many businesses go 'round in the preparation of advertising and get nowhere. Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is accomplished but the expenditure of dollars that could be made to produce results. The function of a printing organization today is to help clients to plan printing that builds sales to take copy and dramatize it. Make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The waste of which we speak is often due to lack of understanding. Realization of this has made us sales minded. Your selling problem, and our experience puts us in a position to print your sales story so that it will get results. THE