Three Natural Bridges of Utah FACT AND LEGEND Willard Luce With photographs by the author T has been said by John Henry Cutler that anyone can be a sculptor. "All you have to do is to get a hunk of marble and throw away the pieces you don't want." This is exactly what Utah's most prolific sculptress, Mother Nature, has done. Only Mother Nature hasn't worked in marble alone; she has worked in granite, and limestone, 'in onyx and clay, and in sandstone. In the Natural Bridges National Monument, fifty-one miles west of Blanding in Southeastern Utah, her medium has been sandstone, and her principal tool has been running water. With it, she has built three bridges with walls varying from an estimated thirty to one hundred feet thick. If the combined openings were placed together, they would lack only thirteen feet from being as long as a Salt Lake City block, and, if placed one on top of another, would be one and one-half times as high as the State Capitol building. Water possesses one characteristic which makes it Mother Nature's greatest carving agent. Water is definitely gregarious by nature. As most of the water is found in the oceans of the world, all other water attempts to arrive there by the quickest and shortest routes possible. In only a very short time these routes become well defined, for water is not a sluggish traveler. In its rush, it carries dirt and boulders and trees for long distances. It is continually scooping at the soft places, wearing them deeper and wider and making them larger and more impressive. Sometimes water is not a wise. Traveler. Often it goes long distances only to be forced to circle back near the place it passed a short time before. As if impatient with its own weakness, it pushes at the intervening wall until, finally, the wall gives way and a short cut is made. Occasionally, such a short cut leaves the hard stone at the top intact, thus forming a bridge for the water to pass beneath. Thus it was that Mother Nature sculptured three beautiful bridges in the Natural Bridges National Monument. It has been sixty years since a white man first beheld these masterpieces carved in the long ago. In the 1880's, the prospector, Cass Hite, brought back the first recorded accounts of the bridges. It was in these same 1880's that the first cattlemen drifted their herds into the Dark Canyon country. Undoubtedly, many a puncher has thrown his bed roll beneath one of these bridges after a hard day's ride, thankful for its shelter, but little concerned with the natural wonder above him. Most cowboys live in a world of natural wonders and accept them, without question and without awe, as part of their environment. It was not until 1908 that the bridges became sufficiently well known to be set aside as a natural Page 657 OWACHOMO (EDWIN) BRIDGE This bridge is the best known of Southeastern Utah's three great bridges in the White Canyon area. The Owachomo Bridge is in Armstrong Canyon, a tributary of White Canyon. The arch is 200 feet across and the height is 108 feet. Monument. According to the United States Park Service, a national monument is set aside primarily for educational purposes. 'The natural bridges are one of the best examples of water erosion in sandstone. For years, however, it was quite a job becoming educated in this particular style of water erosion. It was a five-day horseback trip in those days, and not such an easy five days at that. Despite this, the number of visitors increased until, in 1928, twenty years later, a road was extended from Blanding to the first bridge. HIS is the Owachomo Bridge, which is still locally known as the Edwin Bridge. It is the best known of the three, partly because of postcard sales, but principally because many American tourists insist on driving up to their scenery in ease and comfort. The Owachomo Bridge has a thickness of ten feet and a span of 200 feet. It rises 108 feet above the floor of Armstrong Canyon. The name Owachomo is a Hopi Indian word. It means "flat-rock mound." It is given to the bridge because of a near-by promontory which very well fits the word, "Owachomo." Three miles down Armstrong Canyon is Kachina Bridge which is more often called Caroline Bridge by the local people. Although the opening here is relatively small compared ? with the other two bridges, the overhanging rock measures 107 feet through at the narrowest place, just twenty-seven feet thicker than the  THREE NATURAL BRIDGES OF UTAH Latter-day Saint Tabernacle in Salt Lake City is tall. The span of the bridge is 186 feet, and the height of the opening, ninety-eight feet. This bridge was named from the Hopi word meaning "sacred dance," because of the dance symbols found carved on the bridge. The last bridge, the Sipapu_ or Augusta Bridge, has the largest opening and is the most impressive and most beautiful of the three. There are 222 feet between the bottom of the arching stone and the canyon floor, and 261 feet from one canyon wall to the next. Two Salt Lake Tabernacles could be placed, one on top of the other, within this space, with eleven feet to spare on the sides and sixty-two feet overhead. The 659 space lacks just six inches of being as tall as the Latter-day Saint Temple and the Angel Moroni in Salt Lake City. The name Sipapu is also taken from the Hopi Indian language. It means, "the gateway through which the souls of men come from the underworld and return to it." There is a Hopi legend concerning this bridge which tells that, at one time, all the souls of men were locked within the earth. When the animals heard about this, they decided to release them. The coyote took his turn first at digging. Following him, one after another, the different animals took their turns digging deeper and enlarging the opening. Last was the badger, who finally SIPAPU (AUGUSTA) BRIDGE This bridge, in White Canyon, sometimes called the world's most beautiful natural bridge, arches 222 feet above the canyon and has a span of 261 feet. " MRS. MOTI I. KACHINA (CAROLINE) BRIDGE The massive Kachina Bridge, in Armstrong Canyon, has an arch 107 feet thick and a span of 186 feet THREE NATURAL BRIDGES OF UTAH completed the opening and released the souls of men. 'Their release, however, was only probationary; for once the earth was finished with them, they had to return through this same opening. So maybe it wasn't Mother Nature at all who did the sculpturing. Neither the animals nor Mother Nature signed their names as some sculptors do to their works of art. True, a few vain sight-seers have signed theirs, trying to claim the glory. But this is a foolish gesture, for the United States Park Service knows 661 full well that no mere man did the job. Many of those trying to claim the glory have had to make an extra trip just to remove their signatures. Trying to claim the sculptorship of a monument is a serious offense in the eyes of the Government. But, regardless of whether it was the animals or Mother Nature who created the natural bridges, they are there, beautiful in line and color, awe-inspiring in size. A gorgeous sight to see on your next trip into San Juan County, the chasm-land of the Southwest.