courage. She was one of the most intelligent women in the Colonies, and bold enough to stand for religious tolerance. For this crime she was condemned by a court of forty intolerant citizens to banishment. She and her numerous family fled to unsettled Western New York, where all of the family, except one child, Susanna, were massacred by the Indians. That Susanna survived is a fact for which Latter-day Saints may well be grateful, for the gifted Parley P. And Orson Pratt and their large and talented progeny are direct descendants from Anne Hutchinson. Miss DOROTHY SHAVER has been elected to head the vast business concern of Lord and Taylor, New York City's famous Fifth Avenue shop, a $30,000,000 retail corporation. Page 671  EDITORIAL

VOL. 33 OCTOBER 1946 NO. 10 She leaning of Autumn To everything there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven... A time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted (Eccles. 3:1-2). NEW seasons come as a fulfillment of natural law, the law that God has made in the universe, and there is a feeling of security, content-. Ment, and well-being in the return of autumn. It is fitting that we recognize with gratitude the blessings that come in this season. Our Heavenly Father "hath made everything beautiful in his time." The mosaic of autumn flowers, the stubble field, the bins of yellow wheat, the rich color of the leaf patterns all the evidences of autumn are beautiful and significant beyond their outward appearances. Harvest time and the gathering and the reaping mean that our labors have been rewarded once mote, that the ancient promise of the earth has again been fulfilled. The autumn season, then, should bring to us the realization that where abundance and plenty are found, that land is blessed. And yet, as the world is now organized, there is still not enough food for all who need it. Many must go hungry. For this reason there should be no waste of any kind. Those who have produced food must see that it is properly stored against a time of need; and that which is produced beyond the needs of each family, should be made available to others. Many people who wish to share their abundance find the problems Page 672 of distribution difficult, and they are at a loss to know how they can help the needy. Among the Latter-day Saints the problems of supply and distribution for the temporal welfare of the people are being met by the Church Welfare Program. All who participate fully in this Plan are forwarding the production and distribution of food and other necessities of life. Through this effective and far-reaching plan of the Lord, individuals may fulfill their desire to be of help to others. The feeling of satisfaction which comes from activity in the Welfare Program is of great value because it gives each participant a feeling of adequacy and strength, the result of being united with others in a great cause. Even as autumn is a time of reaping and gathering in of the fruits of the field, a time for being our "brother's keeper," it is also a time for the weighing of spiritual values. As the farmer counts his sacks of grain and measures the yield of his harvest, so should each individual appraise that which has been added to enrich and magnify his personality. Life is a process of reaping the results of past efforts. It is also a process of continual beginning again. Each day is, in itself, both seedtime and harvest. V. P. C. MRS. JOHN W. STAHR AND HER DISPLAY OF PAINTED WEEDS