Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday. January 28, 1947 Lesson Link: In the previous lesson, ""The Family Organization," we considered essential attributes of husband and wife and the rights and responsibilities of various members of the family. In this lesson we will discuss fundamental principles of child training, stressing the importance of the good example to be set by the parents. Objective: To give specific guidance in child training and to stress the need of developing sound practices in the important calling of parenthood. HILD training is an art of the _first order. Intelligent application of this art is perhaps needed at the present time more than any other thing. Child delinquency has assumed such alarming proportions as to indicate that parents may not be fulfilling their responsibilities toward their children: It is a lamentable fact that often no preparation is made for this most important profession. Education and training are demanded in all phases of business, science, and other fields of endeavor, but in the most noble profession of all, that of parenthood, no training is expected. There are courses in child training being given in our universities, and more students, particularly _ girls, who will be the mothers of the future, should study these courses. Child training demands a great amount of self-control and common sense on the part of parents. Children react so differently to the same experiences that it is a puzzle to always determine the proper treatment. We know that each child is individual in his make-up and that the same rules cannot be applied to everyone alike. There are some principles of child training, however, which are fundamentally sound and which, if consistently followed, will build sound characters. Essentials in Child Training First of all, child training should begin very early. Solomon of old said, "Train up a child in the way he should go; and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6), Parents too often underrate the intelligence of a child by thinking he knows very little until he can talk plainly. The day a child is born is the time to begin his training. Behavior patterns begin from that day. Habits in order, in courtesy, in control of the emotions, and many others, can be taught very tiny children. Most of the routine habits and standards of conduct can be well defined in preschool years. Child training must be persistent to be effective. No habit is formed except by repetition. President McKay gave the following quotation of Luther Burbank, the great plant wizard, who said:  LESSON DEPARTMENT Above all, bear in mind repetition the use of an influence over and over again, keeping everlastingly at it. This is what fixes traits in plants, the constant repetition of an influence until at last it ls irrevocably fixed and will not change. You cannot afford to get discouraged. You are dealing with something far more precious than any plant the precious soul of a child! One of President Grant's favorite quotations also bears out this idea: That which we persist in doing becomes easier for us to do; not that the nature of the thing itself is changed, but that our power to do is increased (Gospel Standards, page 355). In a certain kindergarten, it was the rule that the children remove their own galoshes and set them neatly in a closet. It was necessary to remind the children of this responsibility a varying number of times. One child was reminded seventeen times before. This habit became fixed. Example is a vital principle of child training, and wields more influence than all the preaching that may be done. A proper example is the greatest assurance parents have that their children will grow into upright citizens. Children are great imitators and are very susceptible to the things they see. Brigham Young said: If parents will continually set before their children examples worthy of their imitation and the approval of our Father in Heaven, they will turn the current, and the tide of feelings of their children, and they, eventually, will desire righteousness more than evil (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 322; 1941 edition, page 208). It is in the home that children learn to distinguish between right and wrong. Standards are set by the parents. It is quite useless to 713 say, "Do as I say, but not as I do." The story is told of a Sunday School class in which the teacher was reciting the evils and consequences of drinking beer and liquor. After she had gone on at some length, a small boy raised his hand and said, ""Teacher, it isn't wrong to drink beer. My mama and daddy drink beer." His parents had set the standard and what they did was right to him. The attitude parents have toward Church authorities and sustaining the law of the land is very important. A child will learn to criticize the General Authorities and to disregard the law more readily by hearing criticism in the home than in any other way. Children develop attitudes of what they consider to be right and wrong largely through the attitude of the parents shown by disapproval or rewards in regard to their actions. Those acts which bring upon the child disfavor or punishment come to be avoided and to be regarded as wrong by the child, while those which bring praise and commendation become desirable and, therefore, in the mind of the child are right. This is as it should be. If a child is shown no displeasure for the transgression of rules, he sees no reason why he should not repeat the act. Likewise, if a child is given no praise nor encouragement from performing well a prescribed act, he will see no incentive for repeating it. A child should learn that happiness comes through conformity to right principles; freedom is really conformity to right principles. Many authorities on child welfare believe parents are lax in administering both punishment and praise. For  a number of years the trend was not to inhibit a child, and the pendulum swung so far in that direction that in many homes restraint became almost entirely removed. 'This resulted in disrespect for parental guidance. Restraint is good for everyone young and old. An eminent child psychologist has said it is the responsibility of parents to prepare their children to do without them. This, at first, may sound rather heartless, but is right, nevertheless. Children should be trained to take their places in the world, to be able to stand on their own feet, make their own decisions ?in other words, they should be equipped to meet life. Essential Principles What principles of training contribute to successful adulthood, which ones equip a child to meet life? It is very important that children be given responsibility and that they learn how to work. From early childhood they should be given regular duties and assignments. Many children, especially those living in cities, are asked to do very little. Parents who do not find work for a child to do, who do not teach him to be proud of honest toil and to do his work well, are doing that child a grave injustice. There is no reason why boys in the city, lacking farm or other outside duties, should not help with the housework, scrub floors, clean the basement, wash windows, etc. Because it requires so much time and patience, mothers are prone to do many things themselves rather than train the children to do them well. 'This is detrimental to the children. Dependability is a virtue of great worth and should be implanted in a child at an early age. Jimmy Done was expected, among other things, to fill the woodbox each evening. One evening he played ball with the boys until quite late, came in tired, and, forgetting the wood, went to bed. Brother Done came home from a meeting about ten o'clock, saw the woodbox empty and Jimmy asleep. He awakened the boy, made him dress and go out in the dark for the wood. This was not an unkindness, but good training in dependability. A child should never be allowed to neglect an assignment or slip away without fulfilling it. Continuous follow-up work is therefore necessary and it. Will prove very worthwhile. Never tell a child to do anything unless you see that he does it. Firmness without undue severity will bring results. Parents should always keep the promises they make. Quoting Brigham Young: What did you promise your little girl if she would do so and so? Did you promise her a present for well doing? "Yes." Have you recollected it? '"'No, it has gone from my mind," says the mother. If she does ill have you promised her a chastisement? "Yes." Did you keep your word? You have not, and the child forms the conclusion in its own mind directly that the mother tells that which is not true.. If you wish to make them presents, do so; if you promise a chastisement, keep your word (Discourses of Bigham Young, pp. 325-326; 1941 edition, page 210). Teamwork is important in the home, all pulling together and each member receiving due recognition. Sometimes, though parents may be wholly unconscious of so doing, the child that is the most demonstrative, LESSON DEPARTMENT or the youngest, or the most aggressive, ls given more favors and advantages than the others. This should never be, for it is unfair treatment. Children sense it very keenly and resent it. Along with laxness in maintaining parental authority has come also a let down in courtesy. Nothing is so refining as the little words and deeds of consideration to others which spell politeness. It has been said, "Courtesy is understood in any language and is an open sesame to the doors of strangers." Only when courtesy is practiced in the home does it really become a part of one's everyday life. Respect for the rights of others is an integral part of courtesy. Methods of Correction Correction and chastisement are often necessary in training children. We may pattern our conduct in such matters on the words of the Doctrine and Covenants given as advice to Priesthood members: Reproving betimes with sharpness. And then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy. Stern issuing of commands may bring temporary response from small children, but older ones may rebel against too severe parental authority. President Joseph F. Smith has said: More can be accomplished for good by unfeigned love, in bringing up a child, than by any other influence that can be brought to bear upon it. A child that cannot be conquered by the lash, or subdued by violence, may be controlled in an instant by unfeigned affection and sympathy (Gospel Doctrine, page 368). 715 President George Albert Smith has said, "Love people into doing things. If you cannot get them to do as you wish through love, there is no other way." Bring up your children in the love and fear of the Lord; study their dispositions and their temperaments, and deal with them accordingly, never allowing yourself to correct them in the heat of passion; teach them to love you rather than to fear you.... (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 320; 1941 edition, page 207). Isolation as a means of correction for young children is most effective. Nonconformity to rules results in the child being taken away from the group. Kindergartens and nursery schools use this method of control. A magazine article disclosed the fact that this was the method of punishment used in the rearing of the Dionne quintuplets. Some authorities on child training say that a punishment should be related to the offense whenever possible. A child who does not bring his tricycle in at night should not be allowed to use it for one or two days. If Mary does not come when called to help wash and dry the dishes, she should have to do them alone the next night. If Jack does not come in from play when called, tomorrow he should forego that pleasure. Love Versus Indulgence There is a form of parental love which is detrimental to children. It is the love which indulges to excess. Sometimes parents say, "Well I don't want my children to have as hard a life as I had," or "I want to give my children a lot of the things I couldn't have." They do not realize that many times they are making 716 their children selfish, proud, and ungrateful. Someone has - said, "Mothers too often rule with their hearts rather than with their minds," inferring that mothers sometimes indulge children because they are softhearted, even though wisdom would tell them it is not right. Some parents are so sympathetic they cannot administer punishment even when they know it is deserved. President Joseph F. Smith has said: God's ways of educating our desires are, of course, always the most perfect.. And what is God's way? Everywhere in nature we are taught the lessons of patience and waiting. We want things a long time before we get them, and the fact that we wanted them a long time makes them all the more precious when they come.... It is... Most unfortunate for children when their parents greatly weaken or almost wholly destroy the children's capacity for the enjoyment of some of the most wholesome pleasures of life. The child who has everything he wants and when he wants it is really to be pitied, for he has no ability to enjoy it.... It is just as wrong systematically to give a child everything he desires as to deny the child everything (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 372- 373). Real love recognizes the value of wise guidance, gives affection its proper place, and deals gently but firmly with the child. Constructive Influence of Praise Every human being desires recognition to be accepted by the group. This is an inborn desire and, for normal development, this need should be satisfied. * Many children are starved for praise. Most parents would not think of letting their children go hungry or without adequate clothing. But they do let them go for months without a word of praise or approval. Encouragement is oxygen to the soul. Children love to rate in the eyes of their parents. Condemnation is bitter and failure deadens ambition. Children, and adults as well, need encouragement to give zest to living, to build initiative and _self-confidence. A boy never left home because of encouragement and kindness, but many have left home because they never received any approval. An experiment was conducted in a school for the blind, while the students were learning to typewrite. It was found that when the children were praised for their work, they could type more words per minute than when they were scolded. Praise inspires children to live up to their highest possibilities. Many years ago in Naples there lived a boy and his mother. 'They were poor but the boy wanted one thing in life to become a singer. His teachers discouraged him, telling him he would never become an opera singer because the range of his voice was so limited. Only his mother praised and encouraged him. As time went on, she said she saw improvement in his voice and encouraged him to continue. She worked hard and sacrificed to pay for his lessons. Because of his perseverance and his mother's encouragement, he became one of the world's greatest tenors Enrico Caruso. There is no failure except from no longer trying. There is no defeat except from within. Mothers, remember that training your children is the most profitable business in which you can engage. LESSON DEPARTMENT Your household tasks should be secondary to training the children. A clean house and well prepared meals are essential but the habits which your children form are of much greater importance. Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss the importance of parental example in child training. 2. Why is it important that children be given responsibility? Discuss. 3. Is courtesy in the home important? Discuss.. 4. Have members who have reared their families tell successful methods of child training. 5. What results have you experienced with isolation as a means of correction? Discuss. 77 6. What are the harmful results of overindulgence? Discuss. 7- Give illustrations wherein encouragement spurred individuals on to great achievement. References Discourses of Brigham Young, Family," pp. 318-328. Grant, President Heber J.: Gospel Standards, "Women, Marriage and Family Life," PP- 154-156; Pp. 354-355- McKay, President David O.: "Marriage and Divorce," page 239, Improvement Era, May 1945. Pratt, Orson: "Plain Talk to Parents," page 147, Improvement Era, March 1946. Smith, President Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, "Marriage, the Home and the Family," Pp. 357-374: West, Roy A.: "Family Eternal." The