The music featured both the old and the new dances. MUSIC DEPARTMENT Requisites Of A Good Conductor By Wade N. Stephens (Conference Address) I. Mechanics of Time Beating. From the body, toward the chorus. 1. Has same duration as a full beat in tempo to be used. 2. Comes from direction of beat preceding beginning of music. C. Cut off: 1. If at end of piece or section, cut off is straight down, the hand continuing down to relaxed position at the side. 2. If music continues, cut off moves toward the place the next cue beat begins. D. Hold: 1. The baton is held almost horizontally, point slightly up. 2. The movement is away 3 4 8 ry of a song will show the conaged, (Canidae P emotion expressed therein. 248 8 These are types: 248 8 2. Grief. Slow 6 3. Joy. Slow 9 otism).. ' moods. Fine the specific mood of each moment of the piece. There are an infinite number of possible words. 'These are examples: 1. Love. A. Passion, tenderness, longing, etc. 2. Grief. A. Sadness, sorrow, hopelessness, etc. 3- Joy. A. Happiness, joyousness, gladness, etc. 4. Religious fervor. A. Praise, thankfulness, reverence, etc. 5. Unemotional passive moods. A. Beat Patterns: 3 3 3 (and g in fast tempo) nd 1 2sigMeNttemeay 2 2 2 (and 6 in fast tempo) 8 g Slow 12 8 B. Cue Beat: II. Emotional Analysis of the Piece A. Careful reading of the words ductor the general type of 1. Love. 4. Religious fervor (or patti- 5. Unemotional, passive B. When the emotional type is discovered, a single word should be found that will de- a. Contentment, contemplation, restfulness, etc. III. Translation of the Mood into Music, Principally Through the Judicious Choic? and Variation of 'Tempo and Dynamics. A. Tempo: 1. Fast tempos usually express some form of joy.. Medium tempos usually Express best. Slow tempos usually express some form of grief. The tempos of pieces expressing love and religious fervor are usually faster if the mood contains joy, slower if it contains sorrow. Passive moods
B. Dynamics:
1. Less intense emotion of any kind may be expressed either by extreme loudness or extreme softness. Intense emotions call for medium loudness or medium softness.
2. In songs, the sentence structure partially controls the finer shading. Nouns, pronouns, adjectives, adverbs and verbs are sung louder than conjunctions and prepositions. The most important word of the sentence or phrase is usually sung loudest, preceded by a crescendo and followed by a diminuendo.
3. The accented syllables of a word are sung louder than unaccented ones.
4. The musical phrase usually consists of 4 (sometimes 2) measures, with a point of rest at the end. It should be treated in one or more of the following ways: a. It may be louder in the middle and softer at both ends, or vice versa. b. When the melody goes up, sing louder, when it goes down, softer. c. A very long note should not usually be the same loudness throughout. d. When a phrase or section is repeated, do not do it the same way both times. The words will usually determine which to do.
IV. Projection of the Mood to the Singers: A. A large beat goes with a slow tempo, a small one with a fast tempo.
1. Tempo changes can be indicated by changing both size and speed, either gradually or suddenly. Change of speed alone is not enough.
B. When tempo remains the same, a large beat indicates loudness, a small one softness.
1. Dynamics changes can be indicated by changing the size of the beat, keeping its speed constant.
2. Intensity of any type of emotion can be communicated to the singers by tensing the muscles of the entire body.
C. Attack, Release, Accent, Change in speed - In these, the motions of the left hand parallel those of the right.
D. Think of the emotion to be expressed. This will result in appropriate facial expression, which is the most effective of all means of projecting mood.
E. The left hand is used always for emphasis. When raised, it attracts attention. Therefore, it should be used only when needed, and relaxed at the side the rest of the time. These are uses of the left hand: a. Soft, palm down b. Louder, palm up c. Loudest, doubled fist. Intensity of emotion is expressed by tension in the muscles of the hand and arm. d. Special indications to individual parts, accomplished by pointing at the section involved at the proper time. e. Change in dynamics.
F. Breathing pauses can be indicated by taking a breath in such a way that the singers can do it with you.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 423