No Social Service lesson or lesson in Family Relationships is planned for December.
Mission Lessons L. D. S. Church History (To be used on Literary day)
This is a course in the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It does not aim to include the teachings or doctrines of the Church, except incidentally, as they are associated with the historical events. Before an idea can properly be understood, something must be known of the conditions under which it was received, something about the person or persons to whom it was given, and something about the way it was developed and applied in human life. It is the purpose of the present course to give these preliminary matters. Most of this material is in the form of narrative, incident, story, and is for this reason exceedingly interesting and understandable. In association with this history are some poems and songs composed under the spirit of the Restored Gospel. It is hoped that these will add to both the information and the enjoyment of those who take this course. The poems may be memorized, discussed in the class, and the songs sung, as the teacher may see fit. In every case, however, they grew out of the situation treated in the lesson in which they appear.
There can be no question as to the importance of such a course. The revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith were intended for those who live in this Dispensation, just as the Bible was intended for the Christian and the pre-Christian Dispensation and the Book of Mormon for the peoples who lived on the American continents anciently. Joseph Smith is pre-eminently our prophet, and he is so in exactly the same sense that Isaiah was an Hebraic prophet, Alma the Elder a prophet to the Nephites, and Mahonri the prophet of the Jaredites. Since this is so, it should follow that nothing can be of greater importance to our generation than to know how God has manifested himself to us in this age of the world. As God adapted his revelations to the Hebrews and to the peoples of the Book of Mormon, so he has adapted his revelations to us. And the following lessons are the history of how that was done:
1. The First Vision.
2. Cumorah and the Book.
3. The Ancient Plates.
4. Our Book of Mormon.
5. Witnesses.
6. Organization of the Church.
7. Early Growth of the Church.
8. The Church Moves West.
9. Events in Missouri.
Education for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
In harmony with the wishes of members of the classes in Education for Family Life as expressed by stake presidents at our recent April Conference, we shall continue our lessons in Family Relationships during the year 1939-40. The theme for the basis of our discussions shall be "My Home is My Refuge". It shall be our aim to make the lessons as practical, as stimulating, and as interesting as possible. In planning the lessons we shall keep in mind particularly the needs of our young parents, those who have more recently assumed the responsibilities of founding a home and of rearing a family. In our discussions we shall consider the family as "a unity of interacting personalities," thus emphasizing the great importance and the high value of the human relationship factor in family life.