F, Lund, General Secretary Cache Stake N commemoration of the organization of Relief Society in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842, programs were held in all the wards in Cache Stake. These programs also honored Lucy S. Cardon, 87 years old, who served as president of the original Cache LUCY S. CARDON Stake for twenty-three years and who has been a devout member and loyal supporter of Relief Society during her entire lifetime. She is the only living member of the first Relief Society organized in Cache Stake in 1868. The original Cache Stake over which she presided has since been divided into seven stakes. Sister Lula Y. Smith, the present president of Cache Stake, pays the following tribute to Sister Cardon: "She has won the love and respect of every one who knows her, and in the twilight hour of her life she still sheds the inspiration of a great personality. Years of public service remove all sham and reveal a spirit aglow with an inner glory. This is true of Sister Cardon. Eighty-seven years have added to the charm of her gracious dignity, stately bearing and humility of soul. Her life is a lesson in the power of serenity and understanding to shed great peace. Her courage and faith through all the trials of life have given strength to so many of those who know and love her. Her dignity, her wonderful service and inspiring personality will live with us always as a monument to a life made perfect. She truly exemplifies Relief Society in its highest form." In appreciation of her wonderful life and her untiring devotion to the Relief Society cause, which she still supports in her inimitable way, the wards of Cache Stake presented her with a beautiful flowering plan and a letter expressing their love and appreciation. South Davis Stake THE 17th of March was very fittingly observed by the Farmington Ward Relief Society at Memorial Hall in Farmington, appropriately decorated for the occasion. The president, Sister Ethel Udy, and her counselors were at the center of the speakers' table, and on their left were seated all the former presidents of the Farmington Relief Society. At the right were women representing the seven general pres- idents of Relief Society. In front the seats were occupied by the honorary members of the organization and special guests. The program was in keeping with the occasion. The sisters representing the general presidents ere dressed in the styles of the periods in which the sisters lived. Following the presentation of a most appropriate program, a hot luncheon was served to the members and guests. 'The picture represents those who impersonated the seven presidents. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 419 SISTERS OF SOUTH DAVIS STAKE IMPERSONATING GENERAL PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY. Smithfield Stake THOUGH Smithfield is one of the newer stakes, it has made a most enviable record in Relief Society activities. 'This is especially demonstrated by the Membership Drive, which was conducted during the latter part of 1938. This particular activity was known as the Friendship Drive, and the stake has every reason to feel that it was most successful. The ward co-ordinators and proved in every way to be good salesmen of the Relief Society. The friendly campaign was officially launched on November 15; 1938. Each ward had the type of party or social which it desired, directed by the ward coordinator. During the campaign each ward coordinator prepared for her respective group a friendship chain. This was made of gold paper, and as each new member joined the ranks a new link was added. Each member, old and new, was asked to write her name on the gold link which represented her, thus making a wonderful chain of true and everlasting friendship. The slogan, "Members old, members new, one hundred thousand by "42," was extensively used with the hope that people would become Relief Society conscious. The slogan was printed on very attractive banners and displayed in a prominent place in each ward. Over this slogan the friendship chain was hung. In order to obtain golden key success the wards understand that they must obtain their four-year membership quota. The stake board will then present the successful wards with the golden key. It was the feeling of the stake that 420 JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a short and intensive campaign would be more successful, so the Membership Drive for 1938 ended officially December 15. At its conclusion the stake Relief Society tained all members of the Relief Society. A short program was presented. One Hundred Thousand. Strong was sung by the group, prayer offered by Bishop Roskelley and an address of welcome given by the Relief Society stake president, Anne M. Farr. The chorus of Relief Society Singing Mothers rendered an original friendship song, written by the chorister, Eugenia Lundquist. The stake co-ordinator, ? Sonoma, Y. Toolson, gave a report of the membership gains in each ward. The Singing Mothers presented a group of Christmas songs after which the picture David Copperfield was shown. A large and enthusiastic group attended. North Sevier Stake MONG the many original and significant symbols used in promoting the Membership Drive, the "Ship of Progress," used by one of AMY J. PETERSON the wards of the North Sevier Stake, is one of the most attractive. It is designed to show the progress of board enter- ? hore a H SHIP 9 PROGRESS eg MEMBERSHIP SYMBOL, SALINA FIRST WARD. The Drive to its completion in 1942. The ship has three decks. Each member is represented by a candle. The top deck includes all of the active and honorary members. 'The second deck includes the new members. These are to be transferred to the top deck when the total number of new members reaches 27, which is the number necessary for the ward to make its quota. The third deck includes all of the inactive members, and when they become active they are transferred to the top deck. This ship is decorated in Relief Society colors, blue and gold. The blue banner running alongside the ship contains the slogan, and the streamers have all the ward members' names written on them. As each member pays her annual dues, a golden star is placed by her name, This symbol of the ship has very successfully stimulated membership. Since last fall the Society has achieved 100% in the payment of annual dues and acquired twenty new members; sixteen inactive members have been transferred to the active roll. It is the plan to light the candles in 1942. This attractive, symbolical ship was planned and built by Mrs. James Kane and Mrs. Merle Mickelson of the Salina First Ward. Amy J. Peterson has been an active member in the Relief Society for over thirty years and is first counselor in the First Ward Relief Society at present. Star Valley Stake HE Afton North Ward Relief Society of the Star Valley Stake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 421 held a very appropriate celebration on March 17. An interesting program of readings and a tribute to the Relief Society were features, together with beautiful music furnished by the Relief Society Singing ANNIVERSARY DAY, STAR VALLEY STAKE Mothers. A delicious hot dinner was served to about 175 people. One of the interesting features was the large four-layer birthday cake, a picture of which is here shown. 'This cake was made and decorated by the Relief Society presidency, carrying out the color scheme of blue and gold, with 97 candles. The happy day was concluded with a successful dancing party in which the South Afton Ward joined.