Church Participation at the Golden Gate International Exposition By Gladys R. Winter
LONG ago, through the efforts of the Pioneers, the Salt Lake valley was made an oasis in the desert. The Church exhibit and program at the Golden Gate International Exposition at San Francisco has been credited with following this tradition. Set in the middle of a huge building and surrounded by material display and commercialism is the Little Tabernacle, a replica of the great Tabernacle on Temple Square. There it stands, set in trees, with an amazingly realistic lawn and smooth paths. There is the familiar dome, and the many doors open to let us hear organ music and see a softly lighted interior. Usually the forty-eight seats are soon filled, and the organist plays As The Dews From Heaven Distilling, which is a signal for attendants to close the doors, so the pictures may be shown and the story given. "Your building is an oasis in the desert—a haven of rest" has been repeated by people many times. Just in front of the Tabernacle can be viewed through a door of the Homes and Gardens Building a sight that seems almost an inspired setting for the exhibit—the ethereal beauty of the Court of the Moon, which has a soothing, uplifting effect. As with all the courts, this has a definite color scheme, which seems especially appointed for the Relief Society, for its colors are blue and gold. On one side of the path just below is a solid bed of deep blue pansies, on the other side an almost endless carpet of blue hyacinths. Such beauty truly feeds the soul. Just past the hyacinths is a long, rectangular pool, the tiling of which is blue, so the water matches the sky. At frequent intervals down its length are sprays of water that rise in pairs from opposite sides of the pool to form two arcs as they fall back into the middle. It is always lovely in the Court of the Moon—and peaceful.
THE lighting effects of Treasure Island, as the Fair site is called, are breath-taking. During her recent visit to the Fair Mrs. Roosevelt said, "Go from court to court, get all the reflections in the water, and all the different colors in the fountains." From all over the world people who have achieved success in every field are coming to Treasure Island for enjoyment and education. Many hear the program in the Little Tabernacle, and their interest is delightful and gratifying. A few organ selections are rendered, then a series of colored pictures are shown, while a narrator tells the story concerning them. Usually one of the Elders sings one verse of Come, Come, Ye Saints. Once when it was being sung, some of the audience joined with the singer; two or three times they have applauded; and ever so many times they have come out wiping their eyes. Many express appreciation for the opportunity of hearing our message, and invariably they remark about the courage and fortitude of our early Pioneers and the fine heritage we possess. One man whose home is in Nauvoo said, "Of course, those outrages happened before I was born, but my grandfather was one of the mob. I have heard him tell of it, and my family burn with shame because he had a part in such an affair." Another gentleman from a small town near the Hill Cumorah said, "There is something different about the place you call the Sacred Grove. I know many Mormons in that vicinity, and we are proud to have them for neighbors." There are many expressions of respect and esteem for the Church and its people. The Church Welfare Program is commented on favorably. ALMOST every state in the Union is represented in the register, as well as Alaska, Scotland, England, Australia, Hawaii, Mexico and Argentina. One can't help but thrill at the thought that a favorable account of the exhibit will be carried to homes in so many countries. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 367 number of people visiting the exhibit is much larger than was ever expected, and they are fine, intelligent people. The first six weeks 28,000 people listened to the programs. For about two weeks of that time it was quite cold, so there were compatratively few people on the grounds; and of course this was before the tourist season opened. During the ten months the Fair will run it is expected the story will be given to immense numbers. INTERIOR OF LITTLE TABERNACLE WHERE MISSIONARIES ENTERTAIN WITH AID OF ORGAN AND PICTURES. Of special interest to the people of the Church is the Temple of Religion and Tower of Peace. This building was constructed by the combined efforts and donations of most of the recognized churches. Our Church made a substantial contribution. President Stephen H. Winter of the San Francisco Stake was chosen as one of the Board of Directors. A Salt Lake architect helped plan and design the building. Although no doctrine may be disseminated, opportunity is given for each church to have one or two objects on display which deal with its history or something specific con- 368 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cerning its religion. The Latter-day Saint display is the large plaque "The Glory of God is Intelligence," used at the San Diego Exposition. There is also a copy of the first edition of The Book of Mormon, published in 1830. At the end of the Hall of Exhibits is Friendship Walk and beside it is the chapel which seats about 250 persons. 'The various churches alternate in furnishing speakers and music for services. Two TABERNACLE A VIEW OF FAIR VISITORS LEAVING THE LITTLE TABERNACLE AFTER BEING ENTERTAINED BY THE MISSIONARIES. Days have been assigned to the Latter-day Saints so far, May 7 and June 25, for what is called Vesper Services. S we leave the Temple of Religion, we skirt the edge of the Lake of Nations to reach the Utah exhibit. The display from the state of Utah is on the east side of the island, located in the center of the block, Ushaped building that is called the Hall of Western States. Here each of the western states and British Columbia have a separate room. In the room where Utah is reptesented, our attention is caught by a perfect miniature of 'Temple Square. It is beautifully done and entirely to scale, and gives a splendid impression of the famous landmark. Altogether, Utah is well represented at this great Fair, but I think its best representation is the staff of young missionaries who give the programs in the Little Tabernacle. At present there are six full-time missionaries from the California Mission; six stake missionaries, three each from the San Francisco and Oakland Stakes, help in the evenings and on busy days. Those who are under the Mission jurisdiction stay from one to two months, then are replaced by others. Each is so fine in his particular way that the feeling of loss is keen when he is transferred. The visitors who come to see the exhibit cannot help but be impressed with these clean, intelligent, fine young men and cannot help but realize the value of the church which they represent. "By their fruits ye shall know them." ASEl~ "Every individual ought to resolve and strive and determine to do more, and be more than he is. You owe it to the world to give not simply the best of which you are capable but the best to which you can possibly aspire." —George H. Knox.