I LIKE YOUR FACE By Marguerite Burnhope Harris
"You're nice, my Mother," said my five-year-old; Then watching more intently, "It's your face." Ah, blessed am I that words so sweet should grace My morn and turn a weary day to gold.
So now I pray that as the years unfold, And I go onward in life's constant race, That I shall weave their days like perfect lace And merit sometime those same words, retold.
If blessings from the Heavens grant me life When birthdays five times five my babe has had, I shall be thankful, and my heart be glad,
And joy within will recompense the strife If she can look at me and truly say, "I like your face; you are so nice today."
Did Nauvoo Have A Spirit? (Continued from page 371)
of at least twenty thousand people presented the glorious sight of being protected by the counsel of God, and watched over by the trustworthiness of bishops and deacons."
By May of that year the capstone of the Temple was laid. When one considers that this was just eleven months after the Martyrdom, and at that time the Temple was only one story high, a clearer insight into the intense activity that pervaded the little town is gained. Evidently nothing could break apart this united people, but persecutions continued. By September of that year mobbings began in earnest and things became so intolerable that the Saints agreed to leave in the spring. The sacrifices necessary for them to make were tragic, but did they sit down and ponder upon it? No, greater activity ensued! There were wagons to build or repair, warm clothing to be made ready, food supplies to gather, etc. What a busy scene the little town presented! But spring was too long to wait for the self-appointed persecutors of the Mormons, and on a cold night in February the Saints were driven from their homes. Nine babies were born that night in the midst of ice and sleet! Yes, driven from the little city they had created and built with their own hands; and with them was driven out the Spirit of Cooperation that had given Nauvoo life and energy, and it remained behind lifeless! Like a canopy that spirit spread over the people; they believed in their new leader, they obeyed his word, they followed him to the Mountains! Oh there were a few who saw greener fields and strayed along the way, or turned back, but for the most part the main body of the Church was loyal.
I have led hundreds back to Nauvoo, and always I have felt that we were gazing upon the bier of the departed. Departed loved ones, to be sure, for there, among other noble ones, lie buried the first Presiding Bishop of the Church, Edward Partridge, of whom God said, he was like Nathanael of old?a man without guile; and the first Presiding Patriarch of the Church and his wife, "Mother Smith," and their martyred sons, Joseph and Hyrum! On such sober occasions one's mind becomes reflective. We have evidence that the Prophet knew the Saints would be driven to the Rocky Mountains. Knowing this, and with the tragic experience of having lost their homes in the past, and in view of the immediate need for shelter, one wonders that time would be taken to lay out a city. The streets are well defined and many named for the Church leaders. Why should the people build so well homes of such beautiful design, and why should the spot for the rearing of the Temple be chosen with such care? Standing on the site, which is located on the crest of the little city, facing the city, one can see the bends of the river, for it is exactly one mile distant in three directions to the noble Father of Waters. Why all this care and effort? Could it be that the Prophet wanted the lifeless Nauvoo to stand as a monument to the accomplishments of the Spirit of Cooperation?
(Continued on next page)
Nauvoo?1939
One hundred years ago a band of Latter-day Saints, under the guiding genius of Brigham Young, moved out of Missouri. Shortly thereafter, in a swampy wilderness, they started work on their new home which was destined to become one of the most historic spots in the mid-west as well as all America. They called it Nauvoo, which in Hebrew means, "The Beautiful Place."
On your way to Nauvoo ride the Exposition Flyer, new through train service to the East this summer. Lv. Salt Lake City.. 9:30 pm Ar. Burlington, Iowa. 8:53 am Ar. Montrose, Iowa.. 4:14 pm
The Historic Train conducted by Vida Fox Clawson leaves Salt Lake City July 15th. This Historic Train uses special Air-conditioned Burlington equipment from Salt Lake City to Chicago and provides an excellent opportunity to visit Independence, Nauvoo and other time-hallowed spots near by.
J. H. GREGORY, General Agent Burlington Route 218 Kearns Building Salt Lake City Phone: Wasatch 1899
Through this Spirit of Cooperation the great Inland Empire was founded, in spite of hardship and persecution from within and without. But as time went on, persecutions from without ceased; competition became more keen, selfishness crept in and the spirit of brotherhood waned, but never at any time did it die. The time has now come when the Spirit of Cooperation among the people is again evident. Our present-day Prophet, Heber J. Grant, has given the word, and a renewed spirit has taken hold of us. The interest of the whole must be put above the interest of the individual. Oh, yes, once again we find a few complainers, those who feel that "part of a tithe is sufficient" and those who say "the Church shouldn't get into business" and so on and so forth, but the main body of the Church is being thrilled with this Spirit of Cooperation that is abroad once more. And it will spread until it passes beyond the Mountains and will return once more to the western shore of the Mississippi! Will it stop there? No, it will cross, and the SPIRIT OF NAUVOO will return! In the opinion of this writer, once again the tools of the worker will cheerfully sing; homes of our leaders will be rebuilt; and it is not even improbable that the Temple may rise from the dust, and the Saints stand by the grave of the Prophet and sing:
"The Seer, the Seer, Joseph the Seer! He loved the Saints, he loved Nauvoo."
What a glorious time! I hope, Gentle Reader, that you and I might live to see that day, don't you?
Relief Society Literary Course Books 1939 AND 1940
BASIC TEXT: The Story of the World's Literature... John Macy Special Relief Society Price ....75?
OTHER BOOKS: Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc ...Mark Twain Special Relief Society Price...$1.75
Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse...Vincente Blasco Ibanez Special Relief Society Price...$1.00
Les Miserables...Victor Hugo Special Relief Society Price...$1.00
Plus Sales Tax in Utah
We still have copies of special editions of Books on 1938-1939 Course for those who desire them for their personal libraries.
HEADQUARTERS FOR BOOKS, GIFTS AND GREETING CARDS FOR EVERY OCCASION