The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHARACTER DESCRIPTION AND SYNOPSIS?4TH INSTALLMENT
WEATHER BEATEN and gray, the Carey mansion overlooks Puget Sound. A crumbling reminder of the better days of the Carey family, the dank, overgrown place is beloved by its owner, gray-haired "MISS BRILL" CAREY, who earns her living as a seamstress. Miss Brill had overdone her strength the day she went to ask wealthy old Philander Maddox for a job for her niece. Returning home, she is stricken on the roadside, where she is found dazed and ill by the niece, lovely red-haired young NELL CAREY, who is returning from a movie with Fred Nagle. Nell has ambitions to be an artist, but no money. Miss Brill had determined to provide this opportunity and thereby perhaps break up the girl's half-hearted engagement to FRED NAGLE, a too-material young chicken farmer, bent chiefly on "getting ahead". He was also determined not to lose Nell, and was no more disturbed by Miss Brill's news of Nell's job than he was by the presence of the new tenant of the Carey's Alaska house, young ROBERT LATHROP, mysterious and irritable convalescent. Determined to occupy the sourdough cabin?comfortable log replica of an Alaskan cabin?on the Carey property, Lathrop rouses the ire of Nell, who believes his presence will disturb her aunt. The young man surprises the girl by winning the complete confidence of the stricken woman. Hopelessly bed-ridden and unable to speak since her stroke, Miss Brill is the obstacle to Nell's career as an artist. But the girl has discovered she is a foundling, no relation to the supposed aunt, and resolves to give herself entirely to the invalid's care. She has promised to marry Fred by the end of summer if Miss Brill does not improve, and feels herself trapped. Roused from her despair by the announcement of a local art scholarship contest, Nell busies herself to prepare an entry.
CHAPTER FIVE
IF there was one thing Nell liked to paint better than another, it was Puget Sound. All her days and nights had been colored by sights and sounds of that rambling bit of the Pacific Ocean that found its way between the pine-covered hills of western Washington. She knew it blue and calm, as soft and silky as a baby's rumpled crib cover; she knew it gray and sullen under misty rain, its green border blotted out by low-hanging clouds. She knew it as a gay, brilliant playground for the dancing whitecaps of its own waves and the slanting sails of small sporting crafts that dotted it on brisk days. And she knew it angrily tossing great logs from broken booms onto its rocky beach under the lash of a forty-mile gale. The Carey house faced the widest possible expanse of the water. To the south the channel narrowed on its way to the ports of Seattle and Tacoma. Dividing it to the north was the bulk of Whidby Island, sending the water's eastern channel to Bellingham, its western to follow a wide path to lovely Canadian Victoria. But westward were the Straits of Juan de Fuca, and this gateway Nell loved, this vast mystery of the ocean out of which suddenly materialized tiny specks that became the freighters of Japan, of Italy, of far-off Australia that made incessant parade past the Carey front door. Nell had placed her easel on the old pier that Tom Carey had built to moor his fishing boat. It was a good
406 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
pier, on stout cedar piles that never wavered under the heaviest water. The girl had placed her stool slightly on an angle, and through the corner of her eye she could see the Alaska house. Stretched in his deck chair on the platform, hat pulled low over his be-goggled face, was Mr. Robert Lathrop, the ex-prowler, week-long tenant of the cabin, but still a hostile stranger as far as Nell was concerned. Nell resented him. She had never actually talked with the man. His curt nod when she passed him on the path as he swung down the slope to his cabin, an irritable "great guns, not even a telephone" when he had asked if he might use theirs, and a few arrogant inquiries as to the source of supply of butter, eggs and milk (they must be fresh) was all the contact she had had with him. She had been amazed once, coming home from the village, to hear his laugh coming from Miss Brill's room, and after he had gone the invalid had been pink-cheeked and almost gay. Nell had spouted her indignation at his audacity in annoying a sick woman. Miss Brill had merely smiled. "Does me good," she had managed, "I like him." But Nell didn't. Fortunately, this odious man spent most of his time stretched on his deck chair in the sun on the terrace, wrapped like a cocoon in a rug of violent Scotch plaid, sleeping, or pretending to. He had told Mary Kelly he was convalescing from some nervous disorder. He had been most vague and embarrassed about it. "I've seen men as looked like that, pale and hateful, when they come out of prison," Mary Kelly had finished darkly. "Oh, Mrs. Kelly," protested Nell, "you mustn't say such things." But secretly she had a suspicion the good woman might be right. Somehow, she did not trust Robert Lathrop. For one thing, she resented his clothes. A man had no business wearing ties as beautiful as those Mr. Lathrop wore. Nell shook her hair back impatiently. This would never do. Sitting here resenting the Lathrop nuisance would win no scholarships. For one thing, it put her in the wrong mood. She dipped her brush into the gray paint she had mixed, and plied it with care. A little more red! The Sound just before dawn was a different gray than during a rain. It had a peculiar cast of translucent rose that hinted of the coming light but did not tell it clearly. That was the effect she must get. She forgot Robert Lathrop completely and painted furiously. "Hm. Not bad. Not bad at all." THE voice behind her was bland, a little patronizing, but friendly. Nell had to stare to convince herself that it belonged to the hostile tenant of the Alaska house. He had his glasses off, his dark hair was rumpled. His sweater of hunter's green suited exactly the slight tan that he had coaxed on his face. Nell was startled and not a little confused. He was not thirty-five?not even thirty. He might possibly be twenty-five, but not a day older. Robert Lathrop grinned. "You act as if you'd never seen me before," he said. "I haven't," Nell blurted truthfully. She really hadn't seen him? only the distorted image she had created of him. "I mean," she indicated the sun glasses in his hand, "not without those." "They do make a difference. Have to wear 'em though till the eye trouble clears up. But I wanted to have a look at your work. They tell me you are an artist." Nell smiled uncertainly. "That remains to be seen. I want to be one. I'm going to enter this in the contest, the one for the scholarship." Lathrop's pleasantness was drowned ina scowl. "What do you want to monkey with contests for? Work yourself up to a pitch and get dropped with a thud. Do you realize how many 'would-be world beaters' try in those things? People with years of training! There are bound to be dozens better than you." "And maybe not," Nell retorted sharply. "It's one way of finding out how good?or bad?I really am. I'm not afraid.": Lathrop shrugged. "So you're the game kind, eh?" Then, grudgingly, "That's a fairly good picture you've got there. Too quiet, though. Doesn't smack you in the eye." He leaned closer, then stood back squinting through lashes long and dark as Nell's own. "I don't know, now ? those battleships stringing along, almost as gray as the water and sky. The lights in the crows nests! Gosh, they look stealthy as Indians sneaking up on you. Sort of sinister." Nell's eyes shone. Pink spots glowed in her pale cheeks. "You see that? That's what I'm trying to get. Oh, I'm so glad you think I'm going in the right direction." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 407 Lathrop laughed a little as though he were ashamed of his enthusiasm. He looked curiously at the girl. That hair! Only once before had he seen hair that exact shade of dark red, with highlights like old, rubbed mahogany. <Abruptly he realized he was staring, and turned hastily to the picture again. "Where did you get the idea? It might hit the committee in the eye yet." Nell sparkled again. "Ever since I was big enough to climb out of my bed I've been up before dawn to watch the navy come up the Sound for fleet week. You look and look and can't see a thing. You make up your mind they aren't coming, and finally you make the first one out, gray as a ghost, and so terribly businesslike. I'd hate to be one of our enemies at sea. And then they come, just so far apart, until there's a line of them clear to Seattle from the straits." "Sounds interesting," Lathrop murmured, watching the girl's face. "You paint too tensely, too carefully, wave for wave, cloud for cloud." "T know, I've got to suggest more, outline less. Trouble is, I can't seem to do it. Well, I can only try." Lathrop shrugged, his mouth bitter again. "That's so, Pollyanna. 'Do and dare,' 'strive and succeed'. Those are the old saws upon which they build contests like this, child." Nell gasped under the cold deluge of his cynicism. "Why shouldn't I 'do and dare'? Listen, you're so wise. A little while ago I thought the world was down on me because I had to give up something I wanted desperately. So I just sat and gloomed and felt so sorry for poor little me.  JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Then I heard something that jolted me out of it, so I'm in this thing to win?to try and do as much for Aunt Brill as she's done for me. Certainly I'd never get any place sitting down in my despair in a deck chair and going to sleep." Lathrop laughed shortly. "Thanks. I deserve that, I suppose. But really, Miss Carey, you've chosen a hard role. Trying to be artists in this day and age are those who want to be movie actors or writers. This thing, now. You think you're in a contest, and a couple of hundred other earnest young dupes think the same. But youll find out! The winning canvases will all be in the bag before a single 'contest' entry comes in.' Lathrop's face had become a dull red, his voice almost a snarl. Nell said sharply, "You can't mean that. There must be some mistake!" "There's a mistake, all right," Robert Lathrop said harshly, "and you're making it. Don't tell me I didn't warn you. Either go in this thing expecting nothing ? which, please believe it, is all you '1 get?or stay out of it. You haven't a chance." "No," cried Nell, and indicated the dank gray house behind her, the overgrown, neglected yard, "I can't give myself?Aunt Brill?up to this. I've got to struggle out of it." Lathrop's face was its normal pale olive again. "You could always get married. Don't tell me that thick young fellow with the scrubbed look about him comes to see auntie." Nell laughed, and the tension between them eased. "It's been suggested?the marriage part of it, I mean." The only people who aren't ? "Young men who marry restless young women ought to receive a medal. They keep so many idle brains out of mischief," Lathrop declared, his cynical self again. "A good cook is worth a dozen secondrate artists, any day." NELL disdained to reply to this, so the young man resumed his goggles, his plaid rug and his horizontal position in the deck chair, studying the bent head of the artist behind the screen of his dark glasses. That hair had bothered him, but it did so-no longer. He knew where he had seen it. It was just shortly after the great war, and he had seen it on the head of a very pretty, if haughty, young lady, who used to come to talk with his mother. He remembered, did Robert Lathrop, hanging behind his mother's chair and watching the lights play on the lovely red hair of the caller until he was reminded sharply to go out and play with the other little boys. "Wien this Nell gets some sense she's going to be a beauty. Better than the other one," Lathrop told himself. And the thought of that other red-haired beauty tantalized him. He had so many pieces of a puzzle that lacked but little of being a complete picture. He lay so quietly in his deck chair one would have thought him asleep. At length he whistled softly. "She's the one. She has to be," he said aloud. Trouble was he had nothing but the looks of the girl and the whispers of Mrs. Mary Kelly to go on. If only Miss Brill could talk?or would. The young man's face glowed with an almost fanatic fervor. This girl, if she had lots of money, would forget about her art. She'd abandon the long, heartbreaking quest for a mirage that would almost certainly never materialize. This quest that sucked the life blood of young, vital people and left them bitter, disillusioned and forever haunted! Nell RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 409 Carey, young, but lightly touched by the art madness yet, could be saved from that, and he, Robert Lathrop, knew part of the way to do it. Somehow the old lady must be made to tell him what she knew. (To be continued) ext.