Pioneering in Welfare By Franklin S. Harris Or of the fascinating by-prodducts of an ocean voyage is formality combined with the leisure time aboard lends opportunity to meet many kinds of people from various parts of the world in different walks of life. Therefore, when anticipating my first extensive ocean trip, which was to begin at San Francisco and eventually to continue around the world, I was naturally curious to know who might share my stateroom. When I boarded the ship and proceeded to my cabin, I found that the baggage of my companion had already arrived, and that on a number of pieces was written the name "E. J. Helms". Some of the mail there was addressed to "Dr. E. J. Helms, Boston". I saw nothing of my companion, however, until after the ship had sailed through the Golden Gate, for everyone had stood on the deck to watch the last point of land disappear. After the last outline of land faded, I retired below and found a middle-aged man of very pleasant countenance who on my entry said, "My name is Helms." Thus began our first conversation which was very interesting, as have been all of the many conversations we have had since that day more than a decade ago. It did not take long to learn that Dr. Helms was interested in welfare work in Boston and in a number of other large cities in the United States. He was the founder and head of the Goodwill Industries located in these cities and was then on his way to the Onent to investigate the possibilities of establishing the movement in other parts of the world. We roomed together as far as Honolulu, where we spent ten days and saw each other occasionally. We journeyed on to Japan together, though not as fellow cabin passengers. I saw him in various parts of Japan, in some cities in China, and later in India. I have seen him a number of times since returning to the United States and have visited the Goodwill Industries, which his organization fosters in larger cities throughout the country. The Goodwill Industries had their beginning many years ago in Boston. Dr. Helms had been sent there to take charge of a church located in the south end, which is the poor section of the city. In an effort to give help to unfortunate people in the neighborhood, an appeal was made for the more prosperous to bring in discarded clothing. The young pastor spread the various atticles out on the church pews and 'nvited the poor to come and take what they needed. So great was the clamor, it was decided to charge a few cents for the garments. It was readily seen that the articles would be more useful if mended and repaired. Why not give this work to those very people who needed the garments? Thus was born an idea which was to develop into a great industry which each year would salvage discarded articles worth half a million dollars in the city of Boston alone! Dr. Helms would frequently say, 386 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Our organization deals in waste products, human as well as other kinds." The essence of his work was to take people who were not able to care for themselves and teach them to become self-sustaining. In the early stages this was done by having them make all sorts of waste materials into useful commodities. Special Goodwill bags were placed in the homes of Boston and vicinity into which were deposited old and worn-out articles. Soon a fleet of trucks was required to bring in the goods, and factories arose to take care of their reconstruction. EARLY in his work Dr. Helms discovered that a few fundamental principles applied in practically all cases. Probably the first thing learned was that work is the foundation of all human reconstruction, and that if people are to rise from various degrees of misfortune they must work. Any person who came to the establishment was taken in, given a bath, a night's rest in a good clean bed, and a meal or two; but after about the first day it was necessary for the person to work for further benefits from the organization. Some who came were able to do nothing more difficult than to sort tags. Some were ingenious in a mechanical way. Some had skill in keeping accounts. Others could cook, wait on tables, sew, or mend shoes. Each was given the place in the organization to which he was best fitted and was paid on the basis of work done or material produced. From the very first day's work the rehabilitation began. As long as the individual was willing to work, Dr. Helms was willing to continue his help, but whenever a person rebelled against work, nothing could be done for him. Various used articles are gathered by the agents of the Goodwill Industries. Casters may have been donated by one person, mirrors by others, and the frame work of a dresser by yet another. These are taken to their shops and factories, where individuals in several stages of personal reconstruction assemble the articles into something that will have value. The process serves two good purposes: It provides work for the needy and makes available a dresser to someone of very scant means at a price he can afford to pay. The variety of articles obtainable is very great, and the Goodwill Industries in a city like Los Angeles are known by the public as a source of very inexpensive merchandise. Dr. Helms is one of those kind gentlemen whom to know is to love. He has a sense of humor and an invariable good nature, but in his presence one can never get away from the serious aspects of life and the responsibilities we all have to be our brother's keeper. His philosophy is expressed in the following quotation: "Work is the great tonic. The man, broken and discouraged, who is put to mending chairs, repairs his own fortunes and hopes in the process. Each article repaired is made more valuable. To the garment there is added the labor of man or woman who works on it. So with people.... No investment brings such returns as money paid in wages. It brightens a man up, gives him new incentive and a new outlook. Work, says the psychologist, is the greatest godsend ever given for the restoration of men." It will be of interest to many members of the Church that Dr. Helms frequently mentioned in our conversation that when prohibition was enacted there was a great drop in the need for rescue work. He said that no matter what others may say about the success or failure of prohibition, he had personal knowledge of the fact that the more unfortunate stratum of mankind was very much improved and its difficulties greatly decreased the day the Eighteenth Amendment went into effect.
THE work of Dr. Helms is of particular interest to Latter-day Saints because it is not unlike some of our own work. Welfare work in the Mormon Church is as old as the Church itself. Our Relief Societies and our Bishops have handled tens of thousands of cases in which people have been helped to rise from almost impossible situations. More than a century of experience has shown the soundness of Dr. Helms' observation of the necessity of work for human welfare. Our leaders have frequently spoken about the blessing of having something to do and of being interested in one's work—of the degenerating influence of idleness. In the early days of Salt Lake City, Brigham Young set up special projects to keep the people busy. Rather than dole out open charity, he put all the able-bodied to work digging ditches, building walls and fences, and paid
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 387
them for their labor. When the recent welfare activities of the Church took on new impetus, it became evident that there were many people without the necessities and conveniences of life who, though willing to work had none to perform. This led to the establishment of the Deseret Industries, which have much in common with the Goodwill Industries. To me it has become a matter of great personal satisfaction to see my own people and my good friend, Dr. Helms, both working toward the same end through much the same technique. All who are aware of the conditions of the world know that there are people in every community who have fallen on evil days, and through sickness or other misfortunes have found themselves without means of support. Anyone with any heart at all cannot fail to wish to help such persons find means of a more comfortable living. The temptation is to follow the easy way and make direct contributions to them. But the experience of the Church, as well as many agencies such as the Goodwill Industries, has proved that this type of help often does more harm than good, and that the kindest thing we can do is to help our unfortunate brethren by finding means by which they can help themselves. We thus preserve their self-respect and at the same time increase their independence.
"BEHOLD how weak even good men are without faith! With faith, however crude or ill-informed, you may overcome the whole world; without the faith that places God consciously at your side, you have no chance." —A. B.