Did Nauvoo Have A Spirit? By Vida Fox Clawson "The exiled Saints came flocking into Nauvoo in the summer of 1839." ago the Saints were indeed in a sorry plight. For months their enemies had persecuted them almost beyond endurance: Many had been beaten, aye even murdered, and by ruffians, too, and driven from their homes en masse, while their Prophet-Leader was imprisoned. Just what should happen to them no one seemed to know. However, the Prophet's words from Liberty Prison indicated that, while no place had presented itself, still he was undaunted in his determination to keep the Saints together. At the time of the flight from Missouri the good people of Quincy, Illinois, opened their arms, and many of the Saints were being sheltered, temporarily of course; for no good member of the Church would ever think of becoming a perpetual leaner. Within the breast of every true one of them burned a desire to once more gather together and build anew! One wonders that with all their heart-breaking experiences this desire was still alive; but it must have been, for when Dr. Isaac Galland, in a spirit of charity, proferred his lands in Commerce at a reasonable rate and long credit, his offer was, after due consideration by the people in conference, and by the Prophet after his release from prison, accepted. The Prophet later said: "Commerce was unhealthy, very few could live there; but believing that it might become a healthy place by the blessing of heaven to the Saints, and no more eligible place A LITTLE over a hundred years presenting itself, I considered it wisdom to make an attempt to build up a city." It was May 10, 1839, that he moved his family to this "wilderness," and during the balance of the summer the Saints continued to gather at Commerce and to settle on lands that had been purchased by the Church Authorities. Undoubtedly, there were weak ones who wearied of the troubles that followed the Saints and decided life would be easier apart from God's chosen ones, and there were a few dissenters who could see worldly possibilities elsewhere; but the main body of the Church carried with it into the new "home" a spirit of absolute faith in its leader and the message he proclaimed. Presumably, when the Prophet announced to the people that he had changed the name of "Commerce" to "Nauvoo" and that the Hebrew word meant "beautiful location" and carried with it "the idea of rest," that announcement meant encouragement to these weary and exhausted refugees. When the purchase of Commerce was consummated, according to Joseph there was one stone house, three frame houses, and two block houses—that was all. One can easily imagine then, the endless hours necessarily spent in providing even temporary shelter for the Saints who were rapidly pouring into the little settlement! But how happy they were to have a place that would be 370 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE But alas! Nauvoo was wet; it was difficult for a person to walk through the swamps and impossible for a team to get through them; most likely the place was infested with mosquitoes. Due to their late exposures and drivings, the people were in an extremely run-down condition, and many fell sick with the deadly malaria. And then what? Did their faith in their Prophet-Leader persist? Undoubtedly there were complainers; perhaps there were some who hurtiedly moved their families back to Quincy or elsewhere as soon as the "sickness" set in; but for the most part, in spite of this new calamity, they had the spirit of absolute faith in their leader and in the message he proclaimed. How pleased our Heavenly Father must have been with this spirit, and in His great compassion He justified their faith. From Wilford Woodruff's Journal we read the following: "In consequence of the persecution of the Saints in Missouri and the exposures to which they were subjected, many of them were taken sick soon after their arrival at Commerce, afterwards called Nauvoo; Joseph had filled his house and tent with them, and while meditating upon the situation he had a great desire to attend to the duties of his office. On the morning of the 22nd of July, 1839, he arose from his bed and commenced to administer to the sick in his own house and dooryard, and he commanded them in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ to arise and be made whole; and the sick were healed upon every side of him. "Many lay sick along the bank of the river; Joseph walked along up to the lower stone house, occupied by Sidney Rigdon, and he healed all the sick that lay in his path. Among the number was Henry G. Sherwood, who was nigh unto death; Joseph stood in the door of his tent and commanded him in the name of Jesus Christ to arise and come out of his tent, and he obeyed him and was healed. Brother Benjamin Brown and his family also lay sick, the former appearing to be in a dying condition. Joseph healed them in the name of the Lord. Af ter healing all that lay sick upon the bank of the river as far as the stone house, he called upon Elder Kimball and some others to accompany him across the river to visit the sick in Montrose. Among the number were several of the Twelve. On his arrival, the first house he visited was that occupied by Elder Brigham Young, the president of the Quorum of the Twelve, who lay sick. Joseph healed him, then he arose and accompanied the Prophet on his visit to others who were in the same condition. There were many sick whom Joseph could not visit, so he counseled the Twelve to go and visit and heal them, and many were healed under their hands." AFTER the miracle, a renewal of faith swept over the people. No doubt they marveled one with another, and a great desire to proclaim to the world the restoration of the Gospel with all its promises came over them; and by the end of that summer the Twelve were sent without purse or scrip to preach the Gospel to the people of Great Britain. To so small a community it must have been a great loss to have so many important figures leave at once; not only a loss, but the families of these men were left to be taken care of. All were poor in worldly goods, but not poor in spirit. They cared for one another, they worked together, they prayed together, and confidently they looked to their Prophet for guidance. Through this spirit of cooperation which was among them, Nauvoo literally rose from the swamps! It is interesting to note the words of Heber C. Kimball upon his return from his mission in July, 1841: "You know," he writes, "there were not more than thirty buildings in the city when we left about two years ago, but at this time there are 1,200 and hundreds of others in progress which will soon be finished. You will recollect. When we built our houses in the woods there was not a house within a mile of us.. Now the place, wild as it was at that time, is converted into a thickly populated village." By 1843 the population of Nauvoo was computed at about 15,000. It was at that time the most thriving, prosperous town in the State of Illinois—and it continued to grow! But the Mormons were once again becoming too prosperous and powerful, and once more the old hatred became evident. Like a rising tide it increased until 1844 when the Saints were once more living in fear, and the awful Martyrdom occurred! Deep sorrow came over the people. A new appreciation of Joseph came to them; they reviewed in their minds the deep concern he had exRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 371 hibited for them, and the sacrifices he had made so uncomplainingly in' their behalf. They had lost their friend! 'They thought of their own conversions to the message he had taught them; how often he had inspired them to follow him. They had lost their leader! How alone they felt! His greatness became evident to them, and they wondered if there would be another that could take his place. Sidney Rigdon came back from Pittsburgh and announced himself as their "guardian". Uncertainty reigned; some there were who followed him, and some there were who followed others, but for the most part the main body of the Church received the "witness" when Brigham Young stood before them and the "mantle of Joseph" fell upon him. The Twelve Apostles were sustained as Presidents of the Church. The leaders and the people united to carry out the plans of their martyred prophet concerning Nauvoo. Work on the Nauvoo House was hastened, and they likewise worked vigorously on the Temple. The Spirit of Cooperation manifested by the Saints alarmed their old enemies. Persecutions increased, and on the 21st of January, 1845, the Nauvoo Charter was repealed by the State Legislature. Supposedly disruption would take place, but instead there was more unity. It is interesting to read a paragraph from the Nauvoo Neighbor after the April Conference of 1845: "One thing further: having no charter with municipal authority to protect the rights of an innocent people, a city (Continued on page 430)