White House Conference On Children In A Democracy By President Louise Y. Robison A FEELING of security for the future of the nation is enhanced when the Presidents of the United States consider the welfare of the prospective citizens—the children. Under the inspiration of President Theodore Roosevelt, the first national conference to consider the needs of children was called in 1909. Possibly because this conference was held in the White House it was known as the White House Conference. During President Herbert Hoover's administration a similar, although a larger conference, was held. President Franklin D. Roosevelt has called two such conferences; the first, as the two preceding, was called the White House Conference, while the gathering held on April 26, 1939 was designated White House Conference on Children in a Democracy. The membership of the conference totaled 585 including representatives of every state in the Union, Alaska, Porto Rico, Hawaii and the District of Columbia. The city of Washington was never more beautiful than on the morning of April 26. 'The famous cherry blossoms were abloom in all their loveliness. 'The magnolia and other flowering trees and shrubs were doing their utmost to gladden the hearts of delegates, to make them feel that this world is a wonderful place in which to live. If only people would give their best to establish peace and beauty as does nature! One's first visit to the White House is a thrilling experience. Every detail of the conference was so well planned; there was not the least delay nor confusion. After presenting tickets of admission at the east entrance, we were ushered into a broad corridor, where hang the portraits of the wives of the Presidents, then on up the stairs to the historical ballroom. Here the walls were lined with huge baskets of flowers and with beautiful mirrors reaching nearly to the ceiling. Attendants, dressed in smart uniforms with much gold braid, directed the seating in so orderly a manner that in only a moment the delegates were seated and Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor, was extending a most gracious welcome. The address by the President of the United States was broadcast. I hope you all heard President Roosevelt, as every citizen should know of his concern for all children. From his address we quote: "It is still our task to bring to bear upon the major problems of child life all the wisdom and understanding that can be distilled from compilations of facts, from the intuitions of common sense, and from professional skill... "We make the assumption that a happy child should live in a home where he will find warmth and food and affection; that his parents will take care of him should he fall ill; that at school he will find the teachers and toals needed for an educa- tion; that when he grows up there will be a job for him and that he will some day establish his own home. "As we consider these essentials of a happy childhood our hearts are heavy with the knowledge that there are many children who cannot make these assumptions. "We arc concerned about the children of the unemployed. "\We are concerned about other children who are without adequate shelter or food or clothing because of the poverty of their parents. "We are concerned about the children of migratory families who have no settled place of abode or normal community relationships. "We are concerned about the children of minority groups in our population, who, confronted with discrimination and prejudice, must find it difficult to believe in the just ordering of life or the ability of the adults in their world to deal with life's problems. "We are concerned about the children living beyond the reach of medical service or lacking medical service because their parents cannot pay for it. "We are concerned about the children who are not in school or who attend schools poorly equipped to meet their needs. "We are concerned about the children who are outside the reach of religious influences, and arc denied help in attaining faith in an ordered universe and in the fatherhood of God. "We are conccrned about the future of our democracy when children cannot make the assumptions that mean security and happiness." THE Right Reverend Monsignor Robert F. Keegan made a strong lea for character development which, he felt, would never be accomplished without a return to Teligion. Education in schools and colleges has not developed high standards nor moral stamina. Father Keegan deplored the fact that indecent literature is destroying every fine thought and action of American youth. He compared obscene literaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 373 ture to termites in the destruction of character. Mr. Homer Folks made a clear statement of the serious responsibility the nation owes the children of a democracy. He urged that we look to 1980. Probably last year or this year or ten years ago a baby was born who will be elected to make his home in the White House. How carefully we would prepare that child for this task of immeasurable importance if we but knew his name or address. As far as possible these same opportunities for development should be made available to all children, for among them are our future governors, legislators, mayors and citizens who, if properly prepared, will give us Democracy at its best. Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt urged the group to know the needs of the country as a whole—there should be no areas neglected. The afternoon session was held in the beautiful new Department of Labor building. After registering and receiving instructions, the conference was divided into four sections, each discussing specific topics as follows: Section 1. Objectives of a Democratic Society in Relation to Children. Section 2. Economic Foundations of Family Life and Child Welfare. Section 3. The Development of Children and Youth in Presentday American Life. Section 4. The Child and Community Services for Health, Educacation and Social Protection. Informal discussion of the special needs of different localities occupied three hours' time in each of these respective groups. 374 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE At a dinner meeting the chairmen of the four sections made reports of the proceedings of the various groups, and delegates were asked to send suggestions or comments to the Planning Committee. Specific questions were: 1. In your opinion, what are the most important subjects which should be considered by the Report Committee with a view to recommendations? 2. In what ways do you think the members of the Conference in the special field you represent could work with the Report Committee in the development of its program? Recommendations will be brought in a final session to be held next year. It then will be for all of us to determine the extent to which they will be translated into action.