The Body's Need For Vitamins By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe Home Economics Department?University of Utah (Vitamins C, D, and G will be considered in this article) VITAMIN C While each vitamin has its own specific identity and specific functions, as a group they work together in regulating the body functions. The disease known as scurvy is caused by the absence or deficiency of vitamin C in the diet and is one of the oldest deficiency diseases known. Any group of people, such as sailors, soldiers, or explorers, that was restricted to such foods as cereal products, dried meat and fish, over long periods of time, were affected with scurvy. Stories of spectacular cures are cited. A group of explorers camped during the winter near an Indian village. Both the Indians and the explorers were ill with scurvy. These men quickly recovered from the disease by taking the juice and sap of the leaves of a tree. While not definitely known, this tree is thought to have been the American Spruce. Another instance of remarkable healing in 1747 was effected by the use of orange, lemon or lime juice. Since this time the British Navy has prescribed lemon (called lime) juice in the dietary, and the British sailors are today familiarly known as "limies". The introduction of the Irish potato into Northern Europe did much to decrease the occurrence of scurvy. Scurvy is ordinarily thought of as a disease of adults. 'This is not true, Spruce Beer as an Antiscorbutic: Appleton, V. B., Jour. Home Economics, Vol. 13, page 604, 1921. However, as children are subject to scurvy if their diet is deficient in vitamin C over a sufficiently long period of time. Mary Swartz Rose in her text, The Foundations of Nutrition, cites examples of children afflicted with scurvy. A London physician found three children out of a large number in a certain hospital suffering from scurvy, while all the others were free from this disease. He sought out the cause and found that the diet of the first child had for the previous eight months been "oatmeal, rusks, and water with a little mutton broth"; the second child had lived for the previous three months on "bread and butter with a one-seventh share of a pint of milk together with a patent infant food"; the third "had been weaned two years and then fed bread, butter and tea with occasionally some sausage and a little brandy and water". The other children who, did not have the disease had been accustomed to eating potatoes. The scurvy children were cured on a diet of boiled potatoes, mashed and served in raw milk. Recent research with guinea pigs has contributed much to the understanding and treatment of this disease. It is now known that the cause of scurvy is the deficiency of ascorbic acid or vitamin C in the diet. Guinea pigs on a diet of oats and bran will soon become sick with this terrible disease. With the addition of fresh vegetables?cabbage  JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is especially good?the animals will speedily recover. Ascorbic acid or vitamin C is synthesized both by plants and most animals, the exceptions being man, guinea pigs and monkeys. Since vitamin C is found in most plant and animal tissue, McCollum says "It is somewhat difficult to understand how our ancestors were so slow in recognizing the preventatives of scurvy?fresh fruits and vegetables". The chemist now knows the chemical formula of Vitamin C or ascorbic acid, and it is on the market in a crystalline and other forms.: Functions of Vitamin C. Vitamin C in the diet prevents the disease scurvy. Seldom is there a deficiency of vitamin C alone in the diet. There are usually deficiencies of other essential nutrients so that one will usually find varied symptoms' attributed to scurvy. In general, scurvy in human beings has the following symptoms: "The adult loses weight, is anemic, weak and short of breath. The gums become swollen, bleed easily, and frequently ulcerate. The teeth loosen and may drop out." Other symptoms noted are: "Hemorrhages into the mucous membrane and skin are characteristic. Blue-black spots develop in the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and nervous symptoms of various types may appear. Children and infants are fretful, anemic and without appetite. They fail to grow satisfactorily and exhibit vague evidences of illness." The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition: McCollum, E. V., 5th Edition, 1939. Particularly does the writer wish to call attention to the effect of the absence or deficiency of vitamin C in the diet, in that the body is unable to produce intercellular material, particularly the intercellular ?material in the walls of the blood vessels. This intercellular structure is "the cementing substance which holds the cells together" thus giving greater strength and greater elasticity to the walls of the blood vessels, thereby lessening hemorrhages. The effect on the teeth is also marked. The general tooth structure is weakened, decays readily, loosens and falls out. 'The gums become reddened and inflamed and are easily infected. The heart often becomes enlarged and the heart muscles become weakened. There are many other important symptoms of vitamin C deficiency. The boney structure throughout the body is affected because of the inability of the growing ends of the bones to retain and make use of the mineral salts, and they become soft and break easily. The deficiency of vitamin C contributes to anemia due to the destruction of the blood-forming cells in the bone marrow and the loss of blood through hemorrhages. The muscles throughout the entire body degenerate and become weak. Thus weakened, the tissue throughout the body is more readily subject to infection. These effects of vitamin C deficiency come on gradually and do not manifest themselves in obvious symptoms until much damage is done. It is unfortunate that all of the vitamin deficiency diseases are not accompanied by aches and pains in the early stages so that attention may be called to them before so much damage has been done. The above symptoms readily and dramatically disappear when an adequate supply of vitamin C is added to the diet. Nature of Vitamin C Vitamin C is readily soluble in water. It is quickly oxidized or destroyed when exposed to the air. Light also has a marked destructive effect. Even the light passing through a milk bottle readily destroys the vitamin C in the milk. This vitamin is readily destroyed in the ordinary cooking processes. 'The vitamin, however, is much more stable in an acid medium, and moderate heat in such a medium does not affect the vitamin. If soda or other alkaline substances are added to foods containing vitamin C, it will be destroyed. Hence, the custom of adding soda to hasten the softening of vegetables and to tomatoes to neutralize the acid is a bad nutritional practice. One gets his best sources of vitamin C in the fruits and vegetables containing free acids such as the citrus fruits and tomatoes. The modern canning methods do not destroy much of the vitamin C because of the practice of pre-heating to drive out the air before processing in the cans by heat. The drying of food tends to destroy much of this vitamin. The quick freezing method of preserving fruits and vegetables does not affect vitamin values. Vitamin C Requirement The best authorities are agreed that we do not definitely know at this time the best amount of vitamin C for the various age groups. Dr. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 413 Hess suggests that 2.5 milligrams (100 International units) of vitamin C?Ascorbic acid?daily will protect a baby from scurvy, and that the adult will need 7.5 milligrams (300 International units). One milligram equals 4o I. U. In other words, an infant should begin with one teaspoonful of orange juice in his drinking water daily, gradually working up to two ounces or four tablespoonsful. The adult will need three times this amount or three-fourths cupful daily. There is no danger of overdosage. Sources of Vitamin C Vitamin C is produced by the plant during growth. It is not present in dry, mature seeds but develops as soon as they begin to sprout. It is more abundant in the fresh green leaves. It is also found in the juicy stems, tubers, bulbs, roots and fruits. Citrus fruits and tomatoes are the best sources. We now understand some of the old-time remedies for scurvy, such as a decoction of pine needles, grass, burdock, dandelions, and the use of water-cress, turnip tops, etc. The potato holds a unique place in the prevention of scurvy. Apples are a very good source of vitamin C, depending upon the variety. Storage of fruits and vegetables results in considerable loss, most of the vitamin C being lost after nine months in an ordinary earth cellar and one-fourth after six months in cold storage. Animal foods are not as good a source of C as are the vegetable foods. Meat and eggs have almost none. The amount in fresh raw milk depends upon the diet of the cow. Fresh green food and certain ensilage will produce three to five A{4 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE times as much vitamin C as when the animal is on dry feed. Milk in any form?fresh, pasteurized or dried?is not thought of as good sources of this vitamin. One's safety lies in eating daily some good source of this vitamin, such as citrus fruits or tomatoes. The vitamin C values of foods will be found in a table at the end of this article. VITAMIN D Space will permit only the briefest discussion of the two remaining vitamins, D and G, and the antisterility vitamin E will not be discussed at all. Vitamin D is known as the antirachitic vitamin. Rickets is a disease of the bones in which the mineral salts are deficient, especially calcium and phosphorus. While this condition is generally due to a deficiency of mineral salts in the diet, it may in certain cases be due to the body's inability to absorb and utilize the mineral in the food. Rickets is a disease affecting the entire body, but its most characteristic symptom is a failure of the bones to calcify properly; they lose their rigidity and become easily deformed. The first defect is usually a row of protuberances down each side of the chest where the ribs join the sternum. The chest fails to develop normally. The bones project forward forming what is known as a pigeon breast. The entire chest space is smaller, thus interfering with full, deep breathing. The ends of the long bones of the body become enlarged, especially at the wrists and at the ankles. Poor teeth are definitely a symptom of vitamin D deficiency. In the treatment or prevention of these symptoms it is not alone sufficient to provide an adequate supply of calcium and phosphorus in the diet, but vitamin D is necessary in order to help the body utilize these minefals. Sunlight during our summer season also helps the body to utilize the minerals in the diet more effectively. The effect of sunlight on the skin actually produces vitamin D which is utilized by the body in making better use of the minerals in the food. It is a fallacy to believe that vitamin D can take the place of minerals in the diet. Food Sources The food sources of vitamin D are very limited. The fish oils are the best sources. The egg yolk is the richest food source. Cow's milk is a poor source of vitamin D. It can, however, be successfully irradiated thus producing vitamin D. For safety one must include fish liver oil in a growing child's dietary during the periods of the year when exposure to direct sunlight is not practical. VITAMIN G Vitamin G has been intimately associated with vitamin B, but it has recently been given a definite identity. It is now known to be necessary to normal growth and development, to healthy skin and hair. In experimental animals on a diet deficient in vitamin G cataracts develop. Vitamin G appears to be necessary to the maintenance of health for all ages. Vitamin G food values are not sufficiently well established and not enough is known about the amounts needed by adults and children to specify definite dosages. No inter- national unitage has been established, but dosages are given in the Sherman-Bourquin units. 'These authorities recommend 600 units daily for adults and 400 daily for children up to ten years pf age and 20 units per 100 calories thereafter. Food Sources Vitamin G is closely associated in foods with vitamin B and is a water soluble vitamin. The richest sources of G are brewer's yeast, liver, muscle meat, and egg. Milk is the most dependable source as it is found usually in the diet of both growing children and adults. Green leafy vegetables are a good source. THE VITAMIN C AND G VALUES OF FOODS (Revised March, 1938) The Average Vitamin C Values per 100 grams or 3.6 ounces given in International Units and the Vitamin G values given in Sherman-Bourquin Units. Vitamin C Food Units Almonds. 1,000 Asparagus, green 400 Brussels sprouts 550 Cabbage 1,000 Cantaloupe 300 Cauliflower 500 Currants, Black 3,900 Grapefruit 650 Kohl-rabi 1,000 Lemon juice 1,000 Liver, chicken 300 Mandarins 520 Oranges 800 Orange juice  , JUNE - 415 Vitamin C Food Units Paprika 2,100 Parsley 1,500 Parsnips 350 Peaches, dried, yellow 500 Peas, green 400 Peppers, green 2,000 Peppers, red 4,000 Pimentos, green 2,500 Pimentos, red 4,720 Radishes 500 Rhubarb 400 Rutabaga, white 400 Rutabaga, yellow 3,000 Spinach 1,000 Strawberries 600 Tangerines 500 Tomatoes, green 250 Tomatoes, ripe 300 Tomato juice 360 Turnip greens 1,000 Vitamin G Beet greens 200 Broccoli 140 Cheese, Cheddar 220 Chick, Peas, dried 250 Eggs 125 Egg yolk 200 Heart, Beef 300 Kidney, Beef 800 Kidney, Veal 800 Kidney, Mutton 660 Liver, Beef 1,000 Liver, Calf goo Liver, Lamb 600 Milk, whole 60 Milk, dried, whole 500 Milk, evaporated 100 Milk, butter 250 Peanuts 220 Prunes, dried 260 Soy Beans 250 Turnip greens 300 Wheat germ 300 Yeast, Fleischmann 500 Raspberries Tangerines 350 250 A