Vol. XXVI JUNE, 1939 No. 6
EDITORIAL
Divided Attention
THE Savior said there are those who have ears but they hear not and those who have eyes but they see not. Some of us go through life and arrive at the sunset end with such a meager knowledge of the Gospel that we may well wonder if we are those to whom the Savior referred?have ears and hear not. The average woman reads one or two hours a week, and is in regular church meetings and classes perhaps two to four hours a week?some more, some less. While much of our time may be spent in interpreting the Gospel plan in our daily lives, only about five per cent of our waking hours is actually spent in study and contemplation of this most important thing in life. If we really apply ourselves during the five per cent of our time without dividing our attention too severely, we have great opportunities to grow and increase in knowledge and wisdom. But all too many of us allow our attention to be diverted from the main purpose, and the five per cent is reduced in some cases to a point where it is a question if any real, lasting benefits are received. If the radio is allowed to play during the reading and study period, it is bound to divert the attention and decrease our ability to understand those things we find written in the best of books. In some homes the radio is allowed to play all day long, possibly with the hope that something worth while will come on, or because of fearing to miss the good features that do come on the air. Some of our young people attend church in a purely social way, and the officers conducting the meetings and classes are just taken for granted, as the radio is at home; sometimes they pay attention and sometimes not, but certainly the speaker or class leader need not interfere with their thoughts or plans or the general social experience they are having in church. Many of us are in the habit of relaxing so completely when attending church that we sleep or allow ourselves to get into a stupor so deep that not even the most important things penetrate our minds, and much of the value of our five per cent is lost. Such a small portion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 403
of our time is spent at the feet of good teachers and in spiritual and cultural classes that we cannot afford to waste that time by relaxing so completely. Some women have felt they were conserving time to knit or do other hand or needle work in the Relief Society or other church meetings. President Robison is particularly anxious that this habit stop, as it divides the attention of the women so engaged, and it is evidence of discourtesy toward those conducting the exercises, including of course the class leader. Some one has said that "genius is only the power of sustained attention". Let us see that our attention is sustained until the very end, particularly during our study and reading periods and in our organization and church meetings that we may better understand the Plan of Salvation, the Gospel of Jesus Christ. "He that hath an ear, let him hear."