Not Understood By Lola H. Gibbons
"Not understood, how many breasts are aching For lack of sympathy? Ah, day by day How many cheerless, lonely hearts are breaking; How many noble spirits pass away Not understood."
MOTHER SEWELL waked, uncomfortable, after a startling sense of being pushed and shoved along a dark road. She looked at the clock on the chair—4:50. She drew one arm from under the covers, but a sharp pain in her shoulder caused her to draw it back quickly; and knowing that when she would move her legs the pain would shoot across her back, resentment welled up in her mind. She stretched forth the other arm to reach for Jane's letter. "Ouch," and the arm was drawn back with a resigned sigh. "Oh what's the use? I know what it says—every word: 'Dear Mother mine: I'm going to tell you something thrilling! I've thought it all out. You're coming to live with me this winter. You will, won't you? I'm coming after you next Friday, and we'll be back here Sunday night. You'll just have to come. We've all decided. Edna is going to give up her apartment and take care of the home for you. Helen and Etta will help you get ready. Al can take care of the cows and chickens. You'll have not one single thing to worry about. And Mother, we live just under the college hill, and you can go to school again!' " Three days ago this letter had come. So soon after the funeral—even before the last flowers had withered and been thrown away—and it had turned everything topsy-turvy; and she hadn't been allowed one hour for rest and quiet and remembering, which she felt she needed so badly after the ordeal of burying her life's companion. And she was oh so tired. Immediately, the day the letter came, Edna had moved right in and the other girls had come with their babies, and oh what a lot of excitement and talk and getting things done. "Ma, you can study Shakespeare at last!" "And see the college opera!" "Momie, maybe they'll let you take part in one of their plays." "They might, Ma." Mother had always been a wonder to them, and often when helping them with lines they must learn they would exclaim, "Gee, Ma, you ought to be in the movies." Of course they were thrilled over the idea of Mother going back to school. It had been her dream—after the family was reared. But nursing ten children through measles and mumps, pneumonia and broken collar bones, falling in love, going away to college and so on had made her stop talking about it, even stop thinking about it; but she still remembered. Each of the children, as youngsters do at a certain age, had gone treasure hunting in mother's memories and had discovered her old, old high school letters and note books. One scrap book, kept up during her first few years of married life, was full of pictures of college campuses, reviews of college plays and operas, graduation announcements, pictures and lists of contestants and prize winners. "It's the only thing for you to do, Mother," they had all insisted when she hesitated and tried to think. "Jane lives right in a college town." "Now your girlhood dreams will come true!" But that was such a long time ago, those girlhood dreams. She wished they could understand how different it was now that Delmar could not go with her, and how she felt about leaving her home—their home, his home. The children didn't know that every brick and stone and piece of furniture in this home that Delmar had built for her told of his presence; that her mind held a thousand images of him as he worked about; that she would always lean on the strength that had been his. How could they know that the good-by morning kisses, so much routine to them, had carried her through the countless tasks of motherhood each day for forty years, and that each night the beat of her heart had quickened as he came through the door? It would be hard to leave this home. She wished she could tell them all to mind their own business and let her stay and be lonesome in peace. But then maybe the children were right. Maybe she was the one who couldn't understand. Maybe once she got away everything would be different, and she wouldn't miss him
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 397
so much. It did seem though that having husbands and wives of their own should help her children to understand just a little how she felt. Yes, Edna would live in the home and she knew it would be well taken care of, and Albert had laughed amusedly when she seemed so concerned over the stock and barns and sheds and machinery which had always been kept in place like so many chess men just before the game begins. But there was J. Delmar, her eldest son—Junior Delmar, named after his father and cut down to J. Delmar or just J. D. Somehow even marriage hadn't stopped his coming for help. He had always demanded more of her than the others. The boy with his problems. Not a bad boy by any means, just irresponsible. And to cap it all he'd married a girl who was something of a problem herself, and now they had three little problems. Things hadn't been going too smoothly for them. And besides, what was the use of sponging off Jane when she had a home of her own?
"NAOMIE, aren't you going to get up today? The fire's going and breakfast is almost ready." "You up, Edna? Well, well. I must have dozed off again. That sun is high." It was the next day before Mother found time to write: "Aug. 30, 1938. "It's Wednesday morning, Jane. If I'm lucky I'll get this finished today. I've been so tired the last few days, getting ready and all. Have hurried so fast getting the big boys off to the mill and then trying to pick tomatoes, which seems a harder job this year than ever before; and all the time keeping the stove full of
398 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
grapes—juice and jam. Then right in the middle of it we had company—the kind that helps—and by last night we had 40 quarts tomato juice, 5 qts. jam, 10 qts. grape juice, had sold some honey, bought some pears, talked on the phone, and everything else imaginable. Oh yes, we finished taking out the honey the other day—145 gals. I wish Daddy could have known that—the most ever taken out at one time. "Today most everyone is at the County Fair but me. I'm too lazy. Still have a lot of jerky pains in my diaphragm, if that's the way you spell the place where it hurts. Slept though, after Edna decorated me with mustard plasters and hot water bottles. It makes me so peeved to think I can't do things like I used to. "We're having a fat hen and mashed potatoes and ice cream for dinner. It's company at Fair time you know. Here come some of them now. I'm going to hide out and finish this. Edna and Helen can make the gravy and set the table, 'cause if I don't get this finished I'll beat the letter there. "Now I'm up in the store room perched up on a huge box like a queen. And nobody will think to look for a queen in a mess like this. "I have already killed all my chickens that won't lay this winter and put them in bottles. You see I must bring something along to help pay for my keep. "In between times we have been mending, sorting, remodeling. Have packed a lot of things. But seems like the nearer I get to leaving, the harder it is. I guess I'll be rarin' when the time comes, though. Sometimes I get the queerest feelings. "They're calling, Jane. Something's happened. I can tell by their voices. Finish later—" Mother Sewell slipped from her box throne and hurried downstairs. "It's a special delivery letter, Mama, from J. Delmar. Read it," Edna insisted. It was from J. Delmar. There was something foreboding about it. Her fingers shook a little, and there was the place in her throat where you could see her heart beat like a tiny drum whenever she hurried or got too excited. You could see the tiny drum there now, beating away. Years of mothering J. Delmar had taught her that when he wrote he was in trouble and coming to her to find a way out. "I'll take it in here." Her eyes pleaded with her grown daughters as she slipped into her bedroom. "Dear Mother: Sonia and I just can't make a go of it. Don't you think I've stood it long enough? She's been going a little too strong while I was away, so we're going to split up. I must find someone to care for the children. Would you do that for me, Mother? I'll send you at least fifty dollars a month. Love, J. D." Her heart was beating like mad and coming right up into her head and pounding hard in her ears. The tiny drum in her throat was beating furiously. "Now they cannot make me leave my home. I will stay and help J. Delmar who needs me," she vowed exultantly. "I will stay and take care of his babies." But then, oddly enough, there flashed to her mind the words of her husband the time their eldest son had killed a horse accidentally—he was seventeen then, always breaking horses and riding wild steers—and her husband had said to her: "Don't you think, Mama, that it's just about time you let the boy fight his own battles? It won't hurt him to take the responsibility of paying for that horse. You deserve a new spring outfit with your butter and cheese money." With a sharp stab of pain she remembered that finally her spring outfit had gone to pay for the horse and that her husband had looked hurt. Remembering that hurt look on his face, she had always felt guilty. Her thoughts were suddenly shattered. She could hear laughing and joking and fun making in the kitchen. Her two big boys, not married but wanting to be, were back from the mill on the mountain and like little boys, unable to wait for dinner, had snitched the cookie plate. Of course, she should have expected them back for the big dance. So much noise and confusion. And then she remembered Albert's pants. "Momie," he called, his mouth crammed with cookie, his head poked through her bedroom door, "did you fix that carpenter's square in my Sunday pants?" "Oh dear. I forgot all about it. But I'll do it now." Rather shaky, she arose from the little rocker she kept by her bed, and tucked the letter well under her pillow. The girls would be curious, but they didn't need to know—yet. No need to have a big scene when they were all having such a good time together. "Forget it, Al," said Dick. "Profit by your college training and do it yourself. Ma isn't able to do those things like she used to. I'll press while you bathe and then you can take a turn."
MOTHER SEWELL tried to be gay with her children. She had taken lots of jolts in her life, and she had learned lots of things through the years. But that queer little hurt stayed in her breast. A hurt because the big boys thought she couldn't do all the things she used to do. And there was a heavy dull ache around her heart because J. D. was in such trouble, and she
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 399
didn't know what Delmar would want her to do about it. The flood gates refused to open and give relief. That evening they all joyfully went to the big dance and the fair with its merry-go-round, and left mother to rest up in the quiet. She had asked them to let her stay, and they thought perhaps it was best, too, for Edna had noticed the little drum beating most of the time this afternoon. Mother Sewell took J. Delmar's special delivery letter from under her pillow, and also the letter she had written to Jane, and bringing the little oak rocker Delmar had made for her she sat down and prayed for understanding and guidance. Her soul was on its knees. She must know what Delmar would have her do. No woman had ever had a stronger, more reliable pillar to lean on than had she. It seemed to her he had always known which road to take. The children hadn't understood how much of her life he was. He had been so quiet around the house; they had dealt with her mostly—and she was still there. The neighbors hadn't understood. Oh if they needed a special prayer, a prayer from an honest heart which went straight to God, a prayer from one who lived His commandment that "Ye love one another as I have loved you," then they asked her husband in his strength of character to utter that prayer. But she alone knew his kindness, thoughtfulness and humility. With every baby her joy had been so full, because he seemed to so fully sense the glory and honor of motherhood. She thought of him now as he had
400 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
taken each child in his arms to bless it. A tear rolled down her nose. Something must be the matter with her glasses. She took them off and wiped them carefully on the underside of her tie-apron, then put them on again. That was a little better, not much. She picked up the special delivery letter. Again she could see so plainly that hurt look on his face when she told him she had given J. D. the money to pay for the "broken horse," and again when she had signed his note to buy the little red roadster. Suddenly she knew that it was probably because J. Delmar had always depended on her that he was unable to make a go of it now; and if she were not here to take care of his children he would probably forgive his wife, and be able to keep her close to him for future years of satisfaction and hope instead of parting from her and reaping only sadness and regrets. Yes. That would be what her husband would want her to do. She would go to Jane's. There the goal she had almost gained forty years before, and given up because of love, could be realized. She would hunt out that little blue and gold college banner that she had bought just before Edna was born. It would be such fun! And she would study Shakespeare, even see some of his plays. She would get a seat on the front row. She could read Victor Hugo's book Les Miserables and take all the time she needed to think about it, and it would be nice and quiet in that big library so full of books. She would hear the college opera in the spring and hear the chorus sing often. There were fine lecturers and educators for class work—she would take just one class to begin with—but they gave wonderful talks in assemblies, and she would go to these. And she could hear the band practice from under the hill where Jane lived. It would be hard to climb that hill in the winter when it was icy. If Delmar could just be there to go with her and help her up that hill! What fun that would be! Trembling fingers lifted the pencil; with determination she wrote: "Dear son, I'm leaving for Jane's next Sunday morning, colors flying—" And then it seemed that her husband came and stood by her side, wanting her so. She leaned back to rest a moment—a moment in the little oak rocker which she had used to rock each of his babies. She could feel his presence tenderly, lovingly by her side. He was so close. It was like all the years—the years they had worked and waited and had their babies—had slipped away and they were young again, and together. There was no ache or pain as she lifted her hand for his—and arose to go with him.