MORMON HANDICRAFT By Nellie O. Parker FOR the world to beat a path to the door of Mormon Handicraft Shop is our aim; and if Emerson is right, we are confident it will be so when people know of the fineness and skill of the workmanship to be found here. Plans have been made to widen our circle of patrons, and important strides have been made this last month in its march of progress. An attractive folder is to be placed in the dining and lounge cars of all trains coming into Salt Lake City. The officials of the different railroads have been very gracious in extending this privilege. They feel as we do, that it will bring added human interest to our historic mountain valleys. The folder tells in part: "Rare skill in handicraft from every country has been perpetuated in Utah.... This cosmopolitan background, unique for thrift and versatility, has produced a handicraft guild not to be found in any other place in the world.... There is quality only hands can produce." Two display cases have been placed in the lobby of the Hotel Utah?be sure to see them when in this vicinity. Each hand-made article in the cases fairly radiates personality, beauty and perfection of workmanship. A representative of Altman Company, New York City, visited our shop recently. Upon her return to New York her company sent us an order for up-to-the-minute luncheon sets, copper work and oxen-yoke lamps, Let me tell you about the luncheon sets. There are several different varieties so new and so smart we know you will want one or more of them. Some are crocheted of wondersheen in large, open patterns, yellow, green and white in color; they are oblong, round or star pointed in shape, and -stiffly dressed so as to look crisp and cool for summer luncheons. They'd be suitable for any time for that matter. They can be ordered in any color to blend or accentuate your china or crystal ware. Mormon Handicraft specializes in things for the hope chest. For this time, when dreams are being fulfilled, only the loveliest and finest are appropriate. Besides quilts, pillow cases, chair sets and rugs, there are many dainty guest towels?white handkerchief linen with hemstitched designs and blue borders; pale peach, green or blue ones, with or without blending colored borders, will be perfect for the dream home ?just to see them is a delight. There are sturdier ones for more practical use but still very acceptable gifts. I must not close before I tell you about the netted doilies as fine and filmy as a spider's web. (I'll let you in on a secret, they make the sweetest jabots you ever saw.) P. S. There is nothing more suitable for a suit or separate skirt than a lovely sweater perfectly knit by skilled, deft fingers. Yloteds. FROM THE FIELD By Julia A.