Address Elder Richard R. Lyman (April Conference, 1939) AM wondering what I can say that will not detract from the fine program you have already had in this Conference. I have always said that in my opinion the music and the flowers are as important a part of religious worship as is the sermon, and here we have both music and flowers—perfect, it seems to me, to the very last degree. When President Clark called last night and said that the First Presidency would like me to come and make a few remarks this afternoon, representing the First Presidency of the Church, I had a feeling a little like that of Brother Joseph Fielding Smith, when the promise had been made to the people in one of the stakes that President Smith was coming to attend their conference. President Smith was unable to go, and they sent in his place our Brother Joseph Fielding Smith, and when Brother Joseph Fielding arrived at the station the first thing the stake president did was to express his surprise and sorrow to think that President Smith was not there, and after he had expressed himself in that way several times, and they were riding along toward the conference, the President finally said, "My conscience, I cannot tell you how badly the people will feel when they know President Smith is not coming." Brother Joseph said, "Well, how do you think I feel?" I have said repeatedly that men may fail, but women never! I was in the superintendency of the Young Men's_ organization for about twenty years. In that twenty years the growth of the M. I. A. Was swift and effective. Some credit was due to the Young Men's Board, but I am sure it is not an exaggeration if I say that most of the credit was due to the women on the Young Women's Board. Men may fail, but women never! When Francis M. Lyman presided over the European Mission, he used to shake hands with the elders and say, "I shake your hand, and you shake mine, and we covenant with each other that we will do our best to live in accordance with the ideals and standards of the Church." In the mission field I aimed to follow his example to a degree. I have been visiting the missions of the Church now for more than twenty years and presided over the European Mission for two years. When I have met missionaries in the field, I have asked them to give me their cards containing their names, the place where we were in the mission field together, the date and the stake from which the missionary 'comes. On the card I have prepared for getting this information are the words: "On my honor I will do my best." I tell these missionaries that I will keep these cards, and when I visit a. Stake I will read the names of the missionaries that I have met from that stake. These names will constitute my roll of honor for that stake. I say to these missionaries, "When I read your name on my roll of honor, the question I will ask is: Did this missionary do the most important thing that any missionaty has to do in the mission field, and that is convert himself." Oftentimes they say, "He has not returned from the mission field." Then I ask, "Is his mother here?" If she is living, practically always the mother stands up in the congregation. Again I say, Men may fail, but women never!; I have just returned from the funeral of a mother who has a son in the mission field in Ireland. I could not help but think of the influence that lovely mother, active in the Church all her days, has had on her missionary boy. I could. Not help but think also what a tremendous influence her teachings and her example and her life are going to have upon him all his days. I was especially touched because nearly fifty years ago, while I was a student at the University of Michigan, I lost my own mother. Her teachings, her life and her example have had a greater influence upon me than all the rest of the teachers I have had combined. I say again, Men may fail, but women never! I was in Phoenix, Arizona, a week or two ago, attending conference. One of the members of the high council had assigned to him the duty of visiting all of the families in the Third Ward of Phoenix. He made the remark that he did not know how he could find the time to go from house to house and find all those of this ward who were members of the Church but whose names were not on the records. His good wife said, "If you will furnish me a little help in the house to care for the children. I will take the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 381 automobile and undertake that task." One little woman, with one automobile, visited every house in that ward and found and put upon the Church records the names of 387 people. Men may fail, but women never! MONG other things, I would like to say a word about this great Church Welfare Program. I hope that all the women of the Church are supporting it, and that all the families are making their fast day and other contributions to help those who are less fortunate. We are not to be rewarded by what we possess or what we own. We are not to be judged by our clothing, but by our lives, by what is in our hearts and by what we do for others. I have told the story a good many times of the Prophet Samuel, when he was told by the Lord to go to the house of Jesse, take his horn of oil, and pour the oil upon the head of a son of Jesse and anoint him king of Israel. Samuel went to the house of Jesse and told him that one of his sons had been chosen by the Lord to be king of Israel. Jesse had his sons appear before the Prophet. When the eldest son appeared, tall, handsome and well-diessed, Samuel thought indeed this must be the one that the Lord had selected. When he picked up his horn of oil, the Lord said, “Wait, wait, Samuel, not that one, for I the Lord have rejected him." Then came the second son, another tall, handsome, well-dressed fellow. Samuel took up his horn of oil to anoint him. Again the Lord said, "No, no, not this one, Samuel, for I the Lord have rejected him." Then came the third, fourth, fifth and sixth, and 382 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for each and every one the Lord said to Samuel, "No, Samuel, not this one, for I the Lord have rejected him." Then said Jesse, "You are not looking for one of my sons." Samuel said to him, "Have you no other sons?" Jesse said, "Yes, one other, my little boy David; he is out here herding the sheep." Said the Prophet, "Send for David." In came David, with his ruddy face, burned by the rays of the sun, his feet no doubt bare, head bare, hair unkempt, and dressed in his ordinary shepherd's clothing. 'The Lord said to the Prophet, "Take your horn of oil, Samuel, and anoint him King of Israel, for I, the Lord, have selected him." And the Lord said to the Prophet, "Remember, men look upon the outward appearance, but God looketh upon the heart." And so we are not to be judged by what we wear; we are not to be judged by our outward appearance, but by what is in our hearts and by the good we have done to our fellowmen. WAS asked to dedicate a chapel in the European Mission soon after I went to Europe. I wrote to the mission president and said, "I would like to know if all the bills are paid. The rule of the Church is that no building shall be dedicated until it is entirely paid for, and I want to know if all the bills are paid for this church." He wrote back very promptly, "Oh, yes, Brother Lyman, all of the bills are paid; they were all paid by the Church. The Church has put up the building, furnished the building, and the Church has paid all of the bills." "Do you mean to tell me, my brother, that the people have not contributed anything?" "That is what I mean." "What have these fine people done that you are thus depriving them of a blessing. I suggest that you find out what the people are able to give, and have them give that amount. We will delay the dedication with the hope that President Grant may visit Europe, that he will come after the people have made their contribution, and that he will dedicate the chapel." Remember, the widow's mite brings a blessing as rich and rare as does the rich man's millions, if the sacrifice in the one case is equal to the sacrifice in the other. The Church and Kingdom of God is to be built upon the principle of sacrifice, and our reward is to be in proportion to the sacrifice we make. I am reminded of the words of President Theodore Roosevelt, as he stood before a congress of mothers in the city of Washington and said: "Since I am speaking to a congress of mothers I shall have nothing whatever to say concerning an easy life, because no mother has an easy life. Every mother has a hard and difficult life." I say to you glorious and glorified workers of the Relief Society as did Theodore Roosevelt, "Your burdens may be heavy and your responsibilities great, but remember greatest of all is your reward." I extend my hearty congratulations to you, Sister Robison, and to all of these, your faithful associates. It is not always the giving of food and money that counts most. As I understand it, you Relief Society women are making a careful study of this great welfare problem, and you are aiming to give to the people the thing that they need most; and oftentimes advice, counsel and instruction mean more than food or clothing or money or shelter. The greatest blessing that you can give people is to teach them to stand upon their own feet. A man once told me how well he had been, how fortunate that he had been employed for many years without losing a day's labor. I said to him, "My good friend and brother, in all these years how much have you saved?" "Why, not a cent." "Why not?" "Well, Brother Lyman, I never thought of it." A young couple came into my office a day or two ago and wanted a little advice. They wanted to build a home. They had been married four years, and were paying $35 for rent, and they felt that they could add $15 to that and make it $50. I said to them, "You have been married four years, and how many months in those four years have you saved $15?" "Not one." "Why?" "We never thought of it." It is often advice, counsel, instruction that people need, and above all they should be taught to live within their income. I perform some martriages, and 1 sit down and look the two young people in the face, and tell them there are a number of causes for unhappy and unsuccessful marriages, causes for divorce, and one of these causes is finances. And so I advise them to live within their income, no matter what it is, to practice economy and take a pride in what they save rather than in fine RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 383 feathers. Far too many begin living on a scale that they cannot maintain! I have said to the people everywhere, "The most important thing that young people have to do before they reach the marriageable age is to qualify themselves to make a living. Not only ought boys to be trained to make a living, but girls also. I have pointed out a good many cases in which young women have been left widows. One said, "I cannot tell you how much I appreciate your interest in me, but I am sure you will be glad to know I have a position already, and the work is much like that you are offering me, only it pays about four times as much." I looked into the face of this young woman and marveled that she alone could get under the burden and lift it and carry it as well it seemed as she_and her husband together were able to carry it before. She had been the private secretary to the attorney general of the state for seven years before she was married. OW the greatest ambition that can come into the heart of a woman is not to be a doctor, a president, a politician or a legislator, but the mother of a glorious man. I hope that all Latter-day Saint mothers have the ability to resist temptation. We cannot have a generation of great men, powerful men, unless and until we have first a generation of strong, powerful women. You cannot produce men with the ability to resist temptation until you have produced first mothers who have the ability to resist temptation. The mother who has not the ability to resist a cup of tea may produce a 384 JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE son who will not have the ability to resist a glass of liquor. When a little woman, a widow, sitting by her soldier son, was asked if she wanted to be served with tea or coffee, said, "I will have just a glass of water, please," the son, in the uniform of our country, said, "I’ll take what mother takes." Years rolled by, and I sat across the table from the same widow when the World War was over. I said to her, "I wonder, my sister, if your son, like some of the other boys who went to war, got the cigarette habit." She answered that he did not. I wondered if it was because he had a mother who had the ability to resist temptation and thus set him a fine example. The mother who can resist temptation will, I believe, have a better chance to produce a son who will resist temptation. Now I must close. I have asked the women all over the Church what their favorite chapter in the Bible is. If you have not a favorite chapter, let me give you one. I give you the 2sth chapter of Matthew. "When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: "And before him shall be gathered all the nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats: "And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. "Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: "For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: "Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. "Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? "When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? "Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? "And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." God bless you. Remember your burdens may be heavy, your responsibilities great, but greatest of all is your reward. A The Memory of a Mother— A man may go over all the world; he may become a pirate, if you please; he may run through every stage of belief and unbelief; he may become absoultely apostate; he may rub out his conscience; he may destroy his fineness in every respect; but there will be one picture that he cannot efface: living or dying there will rise before him, like a morning star, the beauty of that remembered goodness which he called "Mother" Henry Ward Beecher.