Bruce,
Church Welfare as Interpreted by the Relief Society
INFORMATION regarding the activities and accomplishments of the Relief Society General Board and the stake and ward organizations in the field of Church Welfare is needed by the Church leaders as well as by Church members generally. Therefore this new department is being included in the Magazine. It is designed to supply information, recognize outstanding achievements, bring an appreciation of what is being done, and stimulate increased activity. One of the most important and successful activities of the General Board since the introduction of the Welfare Program by the First Presidency is the campaign to educate the women of the Church in the wise administration of the family income and the importance of careful food selection and preparation. The influence for good of this campaign has been felt throughout the Church. One phase of this particular activity is a Bread Making Project. A survey has been made of every home in the Church. The number of women who were not making their own bread and their reasons for not doing so were determined. Then through the cooperation of county agents, the agricultural colleges and other experts the women were taught how to judge and how to make good bread, its value in the diet, and the economic factors involved. Results of this project have been gratifying. For instance, in one of the counties in Utah suffering from the depression wheat was being sold at forty-two cents per bushel; yet bread was being brought into the county in truck loads and was sold at ten cents per loaf. Many of the women of this county were encouraged by this Bread Making Project, had their wheat converted to flour and made their own bread. The economic and health benefits of this service are self-evident although hard to estimate. While it is impossible to report on all the activities of every stake, it is important to note that some stakes have demonstrated an ability to initiate and execute welfare activities that should be an inspiration to us all. Union Stake held a clinic last summer. The Relief Society ward presidents made an intensive search for cases of underprivileged and handicapped children, staying strictly with those where at least one parent was a member of the Church. They did not merely announce the clinic and wait for people to come—they sought them out. A surprising number of cases needing immediate attention were discovered. The cooperation of the community's outstanding doctors, dentists and optometrists was secured and most generous prices for work arranged. The privilege of cut rates was extended to Priesthood members needing care, with the understanding that the quorum assume the expense in cases where the individual could not. Over one hundred persons benefited from this activity and over $1,000 was paid to the doctors. The same amount of work done at regular prices would have cost $2,500 more. The Wheat Interest Fund was drawn upon heavily in meeting the expense. Where people could pay for the services themselves they did so. The money was advanced by the Relief Society in a number of instances and paid back a little at a time; for some the entire expense was assumed by the Relief Society. All cases were discussed with the bishop and his recommendation as to procedure carefully followed. Another important welfare project is being carried forward by the Snowflake Stake. A maternity home is being provided for the help and comfort of expectant mothers. The project is not yet in a perfected state, though progress is being made. A home has been rented and furnished with four hospital beds, two day beds and a kitchenette. The state has furnished a full-time paid nurse (mainly for educational work), and the county is helping pay the rent. The ward Relief Society has furnished the bedding and linen. Local women and the stake board have equipped the kitchen. The state board of health has furnished new equipment for a delivery room. N. Y. A. is helping with the housekeeping, and the county welfare department has contributed layettes and some linen. This project bids fair to be of genuine value in the community. Enlightened women in need of such service recognize that opportunities of this kind not only assure them proper care but also
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 389
safeguard their babies. An intelligent attitude toward accepting these advantages will do much to assure their continued existence, thus making it possible for many to be benefited. Acceptance of opportunity is also an expression of appreciation for the efforts of those who make the opportunity possible. It is a wonderful thing to note that many wards have found time and willing workers enough not only to carry forward the full program outlined by the General Board and interpreted by the stake boards but also to develop specific and individual welfare activities, as for instance: One ward Relief Society gave each member ten cents with instruction to put the money to work and bring back as much as she could for the organization's budget allotment for welfare work. One woman bought eggs, set a hen and sold fryers, and at the end of the season returned $1.50. Another sister bought ten cents worth of beans and brought back $5; another tomato seeds and returned $3. When this enterprise was closed, the funds were used to purchase two barrels of flour for the stake storehouse. The Relief Society has been identified with the welfare work of the Church for ninety-seven years. The experience of the years demonstrates that a welfare program within the Church is feasible and necessary. The various Relief Society units through such activities as these here reported are endeavoring to support the general welfare plan of the Church.