IT'S NO SECRET By Anna Prince Redd
A little wind, a little rain, A breath of scented rhapsody half pain, Clouds in ultramarine blue, Buds just swelling, wet with dew, Bird a-tilt upon a limb Joy of life quite bursting him; Things a-tremble with new birth, Pungent odors from the earth, Reviving warmth, the clean washed smell, Oh all the world combines to tell? It's Spring!
424 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON PREVIEW 1939-40
Theology and Testimony MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES
The course in Theology for the year 1939-40 is to be a continuation of the New Testament, containing further information about the "Ministry of The Early Apostles," their personalities and lives. We feel sure the lessons will be inspiring and helpful to all those who study them, for great effort has been taken in their preparation; much research and exhaustive reading have been necessary. The lessons on John the Beloved, Matthew the Publican and Paul the Missionary are especially colorful and interesting. Such a course carefully studied will enrich the lives of all who have the privilege of taking it. It forms a foundation for character building, for a better understanding of human relations, and a greater appreciation of everything worth while in life's experience.
Following are the lesson titles:
1. John the Beloved.
2. John the Beloved (Cont'd.).
3. Matthew the Publican.
4. Saul the Pharisee and Persecutor.
5. Saul's Vision and the Changed Life.
6. Paul the Missionary.
7. Paul the Missionary (Cont'd.).
8. Paul the Writer.
9. Paul's Lasting Influence.
Visiting Teacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME
The spiritual messages to be presented by the visiting teachers are taken from the teachings of the Early Apostles. These messages correlate with the Theology lessons and are designed to improve personalities and strengthen both home and church relationships.
The following messages are to be presented:
1. Establishing Goals.
2. Unity.
3. Befitting Speech.
4. Gifts.
5. Manifestations of Love.
6. Giving.
7. Kindness.
8. Unselfishness.
9. Charity Never Faileth.
Work and Business Department The Selection and Preparation of Food for Proper Nutrition
I. Family's Food Supply A. What to eat B. How much to eat C. Why to eat it (food values) D. Preparation to retain food values E. How to provide year's food supply
1. Production of food supply (a) Home gardens, poultry, meat supply (family cow), etc.
2. Purchasing of foods which cannot be produced at home
II. Food Sanitation A. Work shop (kitchen) B. Worker C. Food supply
1. Market
2. At home (a) Milk, vegetables, fruits, meats, etc.
III. Clean Dishes A. Why clean dishes? B. What are clean dishes? C. How to get clean dishes
1. Desirable equipment
2. Desirable methods
IV. Selection and Preparation of Vegetables A. What vegetables to use
1. Green, yellow or leafy
2. Potatoes
3. One other B. Why to use them
4. Food values C. How to prepare them
5. Cooking of the vegetables
6. Salad preparation
V. The Efficient Kitchen for Food Preparation A. Selection and Care of Equipment and Utensils
1. Stove
2. Refrigerator
3. Sink
4. Tables, stools
5. Utensils B. Arrangement
6. Time and effort saving arrangement for preparing and serving of food
7. Best arrangements for cleaning up
8. Storage for staples
9. Storage for perishables
10. Storage for utensils
11. A planning or business center for efficiency
VI. Food Habits and Appetites A. What are good food habits? B. Why have good food habits? C. How to develop good food habits
1. Start early
2. Introduce new foods gradually
3. Emphasize power of example
4. Provide proper environment
5. Use attractive service
VII. Healthful Kitchens for Wholesome Food A. Safe supply of water?running hot and cold water B. Sanitary disposal of kitchen waste C. Light, both day and night?surface finishes, natural light, artificial light D. Heat and ventilation?screening E. Freedom from accident hazards F. Safe and efficient cleaning methods
1. Walls
2. Woodwork
3. Floors
4. Stove
5. Sink
6. Refrigerator
7. Utensils
VIII. Lunches Away From Home A. What comprises a good lunch? B. Why have a good lunch? C. How to prepare a good lunch
IX. Preservation of the Food Supply A. What to preserve
1. Amount to preserve B. Why preserve foods? C. How to preserve foods
2. Storage (a) For winter (b) Short-time storage
3. Drying
4. Canning
5. Freezing
Helpful material and suggestions on each of the lessons will be sent to stake presidents and mission presidents in the United States.
Literary Department THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
The Literary study for 1939-40 is a continuation of "The Advance of the Novel," with the same objectives as stated at the beginning of the course: To trace the novel from its beginning and show the dominant position it holds in the field of literature today; to develop taste and judgment in selecting from the very extensive number of books available; to exercise literary guidance and to help interpret some of the masterpieces of fiction.
The Advance of the English Novel by William Lyon Phelps will still be found a stimulating and delightful reference book. The Story of the World's Literature by John Macy will be used as a reference. This book was purchased by the stakes and wards for use in the 1933-4 Literary course, "Life and Literature". It should have been preserved and will be found very useful in the present course.
Three great novels will be studied and can be obtained at the Deseret Book Store after July 1, 1939: Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc?Mark Twain............$1.75 Les Miserables?Victor Hugo.....1.00 The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse?Blasco Ibanez.....1.00 The Story of the World's Literature?John Macy.........75
Social Service Psychology and Modern Problems
The aim of the Social Service lessons for the coming year is to apply psychology to the problems with which every mature person is faced in an ever changing world today. If we are to conduct ourselves wisely in meeting the rapidly changing daily scene, we need most of all to understand ourselves and each other. The world is a troubled one today, not because we lack control over the forces of nature, but because we do not fully understand ourselves and each other. The course for the coming year is designed to broaden our understanding of human nature and thereby to contribute to happy living.
The following lesson titles indicate the scope of the subject matter to be presented:
1. How Does Propaganda Affect Me?
2. Psychology of Fads, Crazes, and Fashions.
3. How Shall I Conduct Myself in an Age of Automobiles?
4. Psychology of Resisting Sales Pressure.
5. How to Sell the Gospel.
6. Psychology of Personal Efficiency.
7. Superstition or Reason?Which Shall I Follow?
8. Psychology of Happy Living.