Brigham Young Looks Out of the Documents By John Henry Evans
ONE of the perpetually exciting things (to me) is to watch a man or a woman rise gradually out of an old diary, an old journal, or an old letter, yellowed with age and deeply creased, to re-enact his or her part on an imaginary stage—always heroically, of course, for everyone is a star performer in his own eyes. And the merest bit of faded paper will bring back to life one of the dear departed. Not long ago, up in Idaho, a woman showed me lovingly an old notebook that had belonged to her grandmother. The grandmother had lived in Huntsville, Utah, and this was her tithing record, neatly penciled and okayed on each page by Bishop McKay, father of our President McKay. We were standing in line, waiting for our turn to pick up the various items that go into a between-meetings luncheon, and so I had little time to examine the pages of that precious document. But as I thumbed it, there arose before me a picture of its original owner. A smallish woman, this grandmother of my imagination, not so very old then. She had on a gray woolen skirt, one of those many-folded affairs, with a capacious pocket hidden away from view. It was from this pocket that she drew the notebook on this occasion. Over her shoulders, slightly bent, was a plaid shawl, on her head a calico sunbonnet stiffened with ribs, and on her arm rested the handle of a wicker basket, in which were some eggs, fresh-laid, and butter, hand-molded and all the water squeezed out. The ultimate destination of these articles was the village store, where she hoped to exchange them for sugar and spices—all but the Lord's tenth, which she delivered to the Bishop as His representative. And when the Bishop wrote the amount and added his signature, how her face lighted up, as one who had never let the Deity down!
IN the case of Brigham Young the picture is more difficult to produce, because the parts of it have to be gathered with infinite pains and pieced together, much as the children put together the parts of a puzzle map. For there are literally hundreds of journals, diaries, letters, statements, what not, by men and women who knew him more or less intimately. Only a few months ago, for in-
362 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
stance, President Grant told us a new story about Brigham Young, in which he himself figured. President Grant was a boy then. That would be when he was perhaps eight or ten and President Young about sixty-four, bearded and gray. With other boys of his own age, Heber Grant used to jump on the back of a sleigh as it sped past his home on Main Street, ride a block or two, then catch a ride back on another sleigh. And once Brigham Young came along, and Heber leaped on the runner at the rear. But when he thought to drop off, the sleigh was going so fast that he feared lest he light on his head instead of his feet. As they approached a stream coming out of the canyon, with slush in it, the President spied the boy. "Stop, Brother Isaac!" Heber, looking a bit scared, was taken into the sleigh, wrapped in a lap robe, and placed by the side of the great man. Then he was plied with questions. What was his name? Where did he live? "I knew your father and loved him very much." Was the boy warm and comfortable? And would he come and see me often in the Lion House, which was only a little way off? "Often," says President Grant, "when the bell at the Lion House rang for prayers at night, I used to go over and kneel down with the family in the front room, and upon more than one occasion, while he prayed, I caught myself looking up to see if the Lord was not actually standing there!"
THAT gives us one peep at the great pioneer's character. George D. Pyper gives another, in which is revealed the alertness and presence of mind of the President. George was about ten years old. "The President had purchased a band of small Mexican mules to be used on the street cars. These were first driven into the corral at the rear of the barn to be lassoed, then manger-broken.
"I opened the door leading from the barn to the corral and stood there watching Charles Crabtree in his effort to catch the mules. Finally he was successful in lassoing one at the far end of the corral. At the same moment the animal caught sight of the open door at which I was standing, and with an awful snort, came toward me like a Bengal tiger.
"I must surely have been killed or at least seriously injured had not a friendly hand grasped me and pulled me out of the doorway, closed the door, and shot the bolt. It was none too soon, for the mule came against the barrier like a catapult. As doors were doors in those days, the brute was stopped.
"I was awfully scared, but wholly reassured when I looked up into the kindly blue eyes of Brigham Young."
THE late Zina Y. Card, daughter of Brigham Young, told me a story that reveals the powerful sympathies of this interesting man. It was in 1856. The last of the handcart companies was dragging its tired way into the Salt Lake valley from the eastern ridge. The company had been trapped in a late November snow and blizzard back there in the mountains. Many of them had died of starvation and the cold. Rescue parties had been sent from the City, with blankets and food, in wagons that were to bring the fagged and famished survivors to safety and warmth. And now, haggard and beaten in spirit, they were entering the town amidst as much to-do as the circumstances warranted. On the sidelines was the President. Zina, who was ten, stood by his side, terribly serious, her hand in his. His face was grim and solemn, even before the appearance of the company. Perhaps he was thinking, not of those whose physical vitality had triumphed over hunger and the weather, but rather of those whose bodies had given out under extreme suffering and defeat and were now lying back there under the snow in shallow graves—if the wolves had not dug them up. Zina felt the big hand clutch and tremble and jerk alternately. Something was the matter. She looked up into her father's face. He was crying! Great tears chased one another over his cheeks and fell into the gray beard.
THEN there is that story of the hard biscuits on the Plains, while the Pioneer Company rested at Garden Grove, on the way between Nauvoo and the Missouri River in Iowa. Garden Grove was the first stopping place out from the town now being abandoned. Since spring was approaching and the companies would need a fresh supply of foodstuffs, it was decided to make use of the land here. The place was fenced therefore, plowed, seeded to wheat and potatoes. And a large number of cabins erected—all by a community of labor. The houses were to be occupied and the harvest
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 363
reaped by later comers, after the first company had gone on. Nelson Whipple, with a companion, was chopping down trees to be used in the cabins. Suddenly, dropping his ax, he sat on a log, completely exhausted. In answer to a question by his friend, he answered, "I've had nothing to eat for two days." Nelson Whipple was one of those whose food supply for the journey had become exhausted through giving away more than he should have done to those who were worse off than himself, and he was too proud to ask help of others who might have more. His companion advised him to go to President Young, but this counsel he put off with, "Brother Brigham has more than he can attend to already." However, on being pressed and seeing no other way out, he went to his leader. "You should have come to me sooner," the President chided mildly. "I haven't very much myself, only hard biscuits, but you're welcome to what I have." Thereupon he went to his wagon, took out a small bag of these biscuits, put half of them into another bag, and gave it to the young man, with—"When this is gone, and if you don't get any more by then, come back to me. Only, don't go hungry again, mind!"
BRIGHAM YOUNG had great insight into character. With many different kinds of jobs to do in the new commonwealth, he sought out men to whom he could trust these tasks. When the first missionaries left the Valley to go to Europe, he adjured them to keep a lookout for skilled workers wherever they went.
364 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The result was that there came to Utah such an accumulation of skill as no similar community ever had seen. Once the President was attending a meeting in Lehi, to the south of Salt Lake City. From the stand, before the services began, he inspected the congregation with those keen blue eyes of his. Then to the Bishop: "Who is that young man sitting by the window, at the rear left?" The Bishop cast his eyes in the direction indicated. "Oh, that is Abram Hatch." "Have him call at the stand when the meeting's over. I want to see him." And then, after the lapse of a minute or two: "Who is that young fellow on the seventh row from the back sitting next to Brother So-and-So?" "That's John R. Murdock." "Well, ask him to come up, too." Both of these young men (they were in their thirties at the time) were sent to open new communities—Murdock to what is now Beaver and Hatch to the Wasatch valley. That Brigham Young's judgment was good is evidenced by the success which these men met with in their pioneering leadership in the two places.
TO conceive large projects and at the same time to attend to small, often petty, details—this is an extremely rare quality in men, even in great leaders. Yet Brigham Young had this quality in a very high degree. That trek to the West must have been more of a heart-breaking affair than we are apt to imagine. In the first companies there were between twenty-five and thirty thousand men, women, and children. Most of these had insufficient equipment, clothing, provisions, and what not to make a journey of that length. For they had been ejected from their homes, their property taken or disposed of at the most ridiculous prices, and that expulsion had taken place before a decent preparation could be made. Besides, there were fifteen hundred miles between their lost homes and the new home in the mountains—miles that included prairie and hills and sandy desert. While the objective and the general route thither had been chosen by Joseph Smith, yet the responsibility of the trek, the execution of the plan, was left to his successor, and it is responsibility, decision-making, details, that tear at the nerves and break down the strongest men. On the Plains food had to be grown, Indians conciliated, a battalion of soldiers raised, a pioneer company selected, and a thousand particulars arranged. Besides, on account of the call for soldier-volunteers, the Mormons were on the Plains longer than they had expected. Furthermore, the plan for the trek had been materially altered by that call for five hundred able-bodied men, and their families would have to be taken care of in their absence. Later, when the stream of immigrants began to pour into the Salt Lake basin, new settlements had to be made, with good leaders, in other valleys—all according to a given plan. For Brigham Young, apparently, had decided to create an Inland Empire under the flag of the United States. It was to cover what is now Utah, Nevada, and California. Latter-day Saints in Canada and this country were to arrive by way of the overland trail; those in European countries, by way of the seas to Panama, across the isthmus, landing at San Diego, thence to be spread out over the Far West. It was a gigantic scheme, the like of which we find in no other Western pioneer. To judge the size of a mind, we look into it. When we apply this test to Brigham Young, we cannot but feel that it was of noble texture and dimensional, particularly when to this we add his large executive powers. With this vast scheme in his mind, however, Brigham Young had yet the ability to look after details and to adjust them. Did a man seek employment? He went to the President, who, instead of giving him the charity that breaks down self-respect and brings on perpetual pauperism, found work for him to do. Did a
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 365
woman have trouble with her husband? She sought out the President, and laid before him her grievance, and the President invited the fractious spouse to the office, to read him a lesson on domestic fair-dealing. Did Brigham Young, on his yearly trips to Southern Utah, sleep in a bed with bugs in it, he said to the housewife the next morning, "Sister, whitewash will rid you of those pests!" He observed whether fences were down, the lack of shade trees or fruit trees, or insufficient care for wife or children, and always told how to remedy these. There was more than a religious purpose in the "all-seeing eye" over the lintel of the first Co-op in Salt Lake City. It typified also the acute vision of its founder. If ever a man and a job were suited to each other, it was Brigham Young and the task of conducting the Western Trek and establishing a commonwealth under adverse conditions.