Problems Of Modern Family Life By Caroline M. Hendricks (Conference Address, Social Welfare Department)
IT is of great significance that such a group of active workers and leaders in this great Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints should meet together for the purpose of discussing family life. The very fact that we are concentrating our attention on a study of family problems should not only prove to be inspirational to each one of us, but it should also enhance our hope, our confidence, and our faith, in a finer type of family life for the future. Undoubtedly our neglect of the study of family life in the past, and our failure to train and prepare our young people for the responsibilities of marriage and parenthood have been largely responsible for the majority of family problems today. That we have met here by appointment to follow a definite course of discussion on family life is evidence that we are cognizant of the great importance of the institution of the family, and also that we are conscious of the fact that family life today is confronted with problems that are a challenge to family stability, problems that are so distressing that some of us are even fearful for the future of family success. If we agree with Charles W. Eliot in his statement that "The security and the elevation of family life are the prime objectives of civilization and the ultimate ends of industry and trade," and again if we are in harmony with Thomas Jefferson who said, "The happiness of the domestic fireside is the first boon of mankind; and it is well that it is so, since it is that which is the lot of the mass of mankind," then we should be justly concerned with this primary institution of society which has always been and must continue to be the foundation stone of our civilization. In considering a discussion of the subject, Problems of Modern Family Life, naturally my first thought was, which of the many problems of modern family life should I select to call to your attention. In answer to this question several other questions presented themselves, such as: Which group in our society is in a position to determine what are the problems of greatest concern; which group will suffer most in the future because of unsolved family difficulties today; which group is invited to give an expression on this subject the least frequently? The answer to these questions undeniably is: The group composed of our sons and daughters who are just approaching the age for marriage; our children who are entering that period in their lives when they will assume the responsibility of founding families of their own; they who will soon be engaged in the process of rearing our grandchildren. So with this answer in mind I decided to get the opinion of such a group and bring it to you this afternoon. Therefore I present to you as first-hand information, what our children think about their homes—the homes which we, as parents, have founded for them.
THROUGH the cooperation of several of my colleagues, I was able to contact some 450 college students. The group, I feel, represent a cross section of the young people of Utah who are attending our institutions of higher learning, inasmuch as they are members of representative families from twenty-seven of the twenty-nine counties in our state. However, in addition there may have been a sprinkling of young folk who came from communities scattered from coast to coast. The group was not selected in any way other than that these students happened to be engaged in class-room work during certain periods last Tuesday morning. The group includes college men and women from freshman to senior rank. These students were asked to list in writing, without signing their names, the three problems in their parental family which they considered to be the most distressing and difficult to handle and were causing the most trouble from a family standpoint. These problems were to be listed in order of their seriousness to family welfare. That only 5 of these 450 college men and women responded to this request in a facetious manner, is, I think, indicative of the fact that our young people have a serious attitude toward family life. Had I the time to give you in detail and in the students' own words some of the many problems as stated by them, you would be greatly impressed and also greatly surprised to learn how keenly the younger generation analyze our efforts of leadership as parents and homemakers and how they view them. But time will permit me to give you only a crude report and
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 391
analysis of my findings. I have grouped the various problems into categories, because we wish to reserve a few minutes in which to suggest at least a partial remedy for some of these most vital problems. Approximately 67% of the group listed financial difficulties as the most serious in their family: 250 said the difficulty was a lack of sufficient money, and 42 said there was sufficient income, but trouble was caused by the manner of distribution and lack of wise expenditure of the family income. Many expressed strong resentment against the vicious competitive factors to which we are subjecting our family life. This was indicated in such statements as the following: We cannot afford to have what our friends or our neighbors have; we cannot live up to the standard which mother and father try to maintain; we cannot associate with the people with whom we wish to associate because we cannot afford to do the things they do. Whenever such problems exist in family life I think it indicates a lack of courage on the part of parents to face reality and to determine their own standard of living according to their own incomes and live accordingly, rather than to follow in a herd-minded fashion the standards of living that someone else has set up in their mad effort to keep up with a third family. And so, on and on it goes, the result being a vicious circle of struggle induced by our adherence to false and useless values. Also, it indicates the lack of an appreciation of some of the most valuable elements in living, and those that offer the source of greatest
392 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
happiness and satisfaction; namely, our human relationships, our love for one another, the aesthetic values in life. True it is, though sad, that our young people are so conscious of the lack of money as to consider it the most distressing problem in family life; but this is not surprising when we consider that there are some 11,000,000 young people in the United States today, between 16 and 25 years of age, who are out of school and out of jobs. The seriousness of this condition can only be realized when we pause to consider that these years represent the mating age. Biologically and chronologically this group of young people are ready for marriage, but economically it seems they have no chance. The second category of problems includes those listed by 53% of the group and expressed in terms of parent-child relationship. The single problem which was mentioned the most frequently was the lack of companionship between parents and children. In many cases it was the mother who was away from home so much of the time that she could not supervise the children. But in the majority of cases it was the father who spent no time with his children. One student said, "We would have no problem if Dad could spend more time at home with us." Another said, "We need a father more than anything else. When Father is not at work he is in some meeting; we hardly know him." Still another wrote, "Our problem is the same one most families have—our parents have no time to spend with their children." This response is in harmony with another study made among 800 young people which showed 61%. I wonder if many children would not be willing and happy to accept the companionship of their parents as a substitute for a part of the lack of money? The third category of problems had to do with the lack of cooperation within the family. This was listed as the most difficult problem by 36.6% of the group. This covered a wide field of difficulties. Among those listed most frequently were: "Mother and father never talk over family problems with us children; we children never know why we are not allowed to do the things we wish to, but are just told no with no explanation given." "Our family never does anything together," was another statement. Surprising indeed it was to learn that in 10 families the use of the bathroom was their most serious problem. One student wrote, "Our family starts out each day with the whole family quarreling over the use of the bathroom." This problem may seem trivial to some of us, but it is not trivial when we think of the hazards to family unity and stability involved in a family beginning each day with the entire group quarreling. And more shame to this family and all families who engage in quarreling because of a situation such as the one referred to, one that could be so easily adjusted through cooperation, a little careful management, accommodation of one to another—the mere sacrifice on the part of one or the other, or each in his turn, of arising a few minutes earlier in the morning. Several students said that in their families one or two members were imposed upon by other members, and this resulted in conflict. Oftentimes in such cases parents themselves are not aware of the fact that their children feel that they are being treated unjustly because of partiality shown to some member of the group. But because it is what a person thinks is true, whether it be so or not, that influences his behavior, parents should be alert in acquainting themselves with the ideas the child has in regard to the family relationship situation. This calls for cooperation. Next came the 20 per cent who listed the husband-wife relationship as causing their most serious difficulty. This category of problems revealed arguments between parents, lack of consideration of one parent for the other, lack of efficiency, failure of the mother or father to assume his or her share of the family responsibility, and lack of agreement between parents in the handling of their children, such as disciplining them. May I call to your attention just one statement that was recorded in this category: "My father and mother have a regular quarrel every time they decide to go to a movie; they can't agree as to which show to go to, so they always spend about an hour arguing about it, then often it is too late for them to go and each blames the other." In this case the important element is that to the father and mother this repeated occurrence means nothing more than an argument over a movie, but to the children it means a conflict relationship between their father and mother. We must always remember that the seriousness of any family problem must be measured in terms of its effects on the children.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 393
Other problems listed were as follows: Emotional instability of some member of the family was recorded by 60 students; health by 52; religion 34; use of the automobile by 23; death of a parent by 22; liquor and smoking 14; in-laws by 20; and 9 out of the total of 450 reported that they had no serious or distressing problems in their families. I say fortunate indeed are these nine young men and women. I trust that even though we cannot discuss all of these problems, the mere mention of them will result in stimulating many of us to investigate and analyze our own family situation that we may more fully recognize our family problems. This is important because of the fact that the first step in the solution of any problem is to be cognizant of its existence.
HOW I wish that I had a solution to offer for all of these family problems, but that probably will never be possible. The achievement of successful family life will always remain a challenge to even the most wise and intellectual. In the first place, there is no one cause for any family problem; each problem represents a constellation of causes in which there is a sequence of incidents; likewise, there is no panacea or cure-all for any social problem. However, there must be an answer to the economic problem; there must be some way of so distributing our resources that every family will have sufficient income for essentials. When we discover that answer, we will have gone far toward the alleviation of the stress and strain that comes as a result of our imperfect
394 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
economic organization. That our economic structure does not provide economic security for our homes, and that it does not afford our children opportunity for maximum advantages is a fact of which we are all aware. And we agree, no doubt, that one of the most disastrous results of this condition is the fact that such a shortage tends to debase the fundamental ideals of family life. But I wonder if the opinion expressed by our group of students does not offer an indictment against parents from another angle; namely, against the set-up of the present-day standard of values for which we, as parents, are responsible. We cannot and we do not wish to ignore the need for money as a factor in successful living. We do desire to face the reality of the fact that the majority of families in our nation today actually need more than they have in order to provide the essentials, not to mention the cultural advantages. Even so, is not a great amount of unnecessary stress added because of the fact that we are placing too high a value on the possession of money as such? Do we not need to develop a more Christian attitude toward money? By that I mean, do we not need to look upon money as a commodity, a medium of exchange for the desirable and good things in life, and not as a means of gaining power and prestige? Should we not aim to develop an appreciation of what money can buy rather than a love of money itself? And at the same time do we not need to emphasize the importance of the type of happiness and success in family life which no amount of money can ever buy? We must place the greater value on the immaterial things in our culture. Each family must choose its level of life and strive for that level regardless of the level its neighbor is maintaining. And each family must have an appreciation of the desirability of the immaterial things as a source of happiness and satisfaction in family life. One other suggestion I desire to offer in the form of an ardent plea for the democratic form of family organization—family organization based on the marriage of a man and woman who enter into the marriage relation as partners in the true sense of the word, on a 50-50 basis, willing to share equally the sacrifices, the responsibilities, the services, and the love and happiness that such a marriage has to offer—a family in which the council method of management is adopted. The council plan of family management is a subject worthy of the entire afternoon's discussion. Just briefly I may point out that it calls for regular meetings, at least once a week, at which the entire family group is present. During these sessions it is the purpose to consider all family problems such as: The family budget, the discipline of members, the use of the automobile, the assignment of duties and privileges to each member according to his age and ability to render service; a standard of values and a goal toward which each member may strive, and which should serve as a guide for the behavior of both the individual and the group. To epitomize, it calls for a frank and honest discussion of all phases of family living with all members of the family taking part in the discussion. I believe sincerely that the family council plan of management offers the most hopeful possibility for the solution of all of the problems which the group of students have called to our attention: Financial, parent-child relationship, lack of cooperation, husband-wife relationship, health, and the others mentioned. The council plan is a significant factor in the democratic type of family. This form of family organization has been tested and proved to be the most desirable. Of 3,000 marriages of five years or more duration among college educated people which were studied by Dr. Paul Popenoe, with whom you are all familiar, it was found according to the judgment of relatives and close friends, that of the 37 per cent which were of the democratic type of family, 87 per cent were happy; of the 35 per cent wherein the man was dominant, but 61 per cent were happy; and of the 28 per cent wherein the woman was dominant only 47 per cent were happy.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 395
If we are successful in the accomplishment of improving our family life, we must realize at the outset that the future of the family does not rest with fate but lies within our own hands. And that within the family groups of today we have the builders of the family life of tomorrow; that upon the significant developments in the family more than upon the developments of any other institution depends the turning point in all human affairs. In closing may I repeat someone's prayer for the family: Dear God: We thank Thee for our homes. We are glad Thou hast set us in families. Help us to respect all homes. When we have shut the door against all that is without, May we find Thee always within. Speak Thou in our family councils; Let Thy Spirit fix our family choices. Ever be with us in our homes. In sun or shadow be present all our lot to share. Make holy that blest fellowship with those we love. May all homes be havens, since Thou art there. Amen.
God in the Darkness—
Robert E. Speer writes the following: "I was awakened the other morning about four o'clock in my room by a little voice just beside my bed in the dark asking for a drink. I got the little lad a drink, and he lay quiet for a moment, and then asked, 'Father, may I sing myself to sleep?' And I said, 'Yes, dear, go ahead.' But soon he got up so much enthusiasm that I told him he had better stop, or none of the rest of us could sleep. Then he was quiet awhile, but soon I heard his little voice again in the perfect stillness of the night. 'Father, have you got your face turned toward me?' I said, 'Yes, little boy,' and the darkness was as the light of day to him."