Little Stones that Change the Course of Rivers Lella Marler Hoggan O river runs down to the sea N without meeting with obstacles and interferences. And no life fulfills its destiny without overcoming trials and hardships. Yet we chafe under restraint. We resent interference. We become frustrated when sorrow and disappointment disrupt our plans. We feel that life should run smoothly for us. Why should our course be hampered and blocked at every turn? Why should obstacles be forever retarding our progress? Are the very fates discriminating against us? Know this, O friend, neither life nor law discriminate against anyone. We reach the high goals we set out to achieve through the conquest of difficulties. Said J. G. Holland: f We rise by the things that are 'neath our feet; By what we have mastered of good and gain. By the pride deposed and the passion slain, And the vanquished ills that we hourly meet. There is a native in his island home who believes that "the strength and valor of the enemy he kills passes into himself." Symbolically, this is true. We gain strength and development from the conquest of difficult undertakings. Disappointments and delays are often the forces that are preparing. Us to assume responsibilities of importance. We have to meet and overcome trials before we are in readiness to accept the great trusts. Said a great poet: A chance rock in an upland brook, May change a river's course. And yet no rock, No, nor the baffling mountains of the world, Can hold it from its destiny, the sea. Though a stone may divert the stream from its original channel, the water flows around it and makes its way in and out, under and over, past stick arid pebble and deadwood and growing things, on and on until it reaches the surging sea. The picturesque cataract that breaks in sparkling grandeur over a jagged cliff and spills itself in lacy rainbows down a mountain gorge, has gathered the very force that glorifies it from the obstruction that blocked its way. To accept the barriers on life's pathway as impediments to progress is to admit defeat before we have undertaken the journey. All lives are beset by struggle and pain and sorrow. This is nature's way of teaching us the things we need to know. We can't gain experience through the efforts of someone else. Our joys and sorrows must come first hand. We have to work in order to learn to work. We have to suffer in order to gain insight into life. We have to pray in order to learn what prayer means. Real values come only through earnest effort. Intellectual growth and spiritual development are not attained. By listless wishing. Emerson said: "The law of nature is, Do the thing, and you shall have the Page 27 power: but they who do not the thing have not the power." It is not the reward, but the struggle that perfects us. Effort precedes efficiency, and "joy is in the quest." Weare forever consoling ourselves with alibis and excuses for the things we have failed to accomplish. Though we can not explain our weaknesses and failures away, even to ourselves, still we can overcome them and lift ourselves nearer to the ideal that we secretly cherish. Our strength of character is measured by our mastery of the trials we have met. What we think and feel and do puts its mark upon us with indelible fingers. Truly "the gods we worship write their names on our faces." SCOUTMASTER and some members of his troop were attending a rodeo. They stood on the sidelines one morning and watched a procession march gaily down the street. Decked in full regalia, a group of Indians from a nearby reservation headed the parade. Brilliant Navajo blankets covered their horses' backs in lieu of saddles. But nothing 'excited the admiration of the on-lookers so much as the gorgeous war bonnets worn by the old Indian chieftains. These bonnets not only encircled their faces with bright feathers and other trophies, but also extended gracefully down their backs nearly to their feet. At the close of the parade a pompous young man stepped up to one of the Indians and offered him a handful of small coins for his war bonnet. The Indian silently shook his head. "Doesn't he understand the fellow?" asked one of the scouts. "Yes," said the scoutmaster, that Indian speaks English as fluently as you or I do. But his war bonnet, like your merit badges, is not for sale. Every eagle feather, every weasel tail, every bear's claw in his bonnet is a symbol of some heroic accomplishment or brave deed. The headdress represents years of effort and is a mark of honor and heroism. He would no more sell it than a king would sell his crown." The scouts understood, for each of them was wearing trophies that had cost him long hours of study and effort to obtain. They knew the delight that comes from a worthy achievement. Too often we adults miss the joy of some great accomplishment because we lack the courage or confi-. Dence to begin. We tell ourselves that we are too old or too busy or that we haven't the ability for such an undertaking. We let our fears and misgivings baffle us. We wall ourselves out from privileges we might enjoy. We permit lost opportunities to taunt us, old age to frighten us, ignorance to threaten us. Our mistakes rise up before us like shrouded ghosts in the darkness to accuse and intimidate us. Down with the wall! Banish the spectre! Forget the failures of yesterday! Are we not God's children all? And have we not been assured that He will give us strength and courage according to our need? To the valiant hearted there is no ultimate defeat. There is always a tomorrow. "True art," says Annie Pike Greenwood, "is in bringing some sort of triumph out of pain.""* Even the Master knew Gethsemane and the cross. But did He not tise to triumphant glory, to stand as the Savior of the world and as a guiding light to mankind forevermore? *Used by special permission of author.