OUR DARLING BABE.

Beautiful sunbeam! come down from above,
To fill all our hearts with the sunshine of love,
To soften and melt the ice-bound high ways,
That have compassed our hearts for many long days.
Oh fair, lovely baby! come here to beguile
And allure from earth, our hearts, for awhile
Giving a glimpse of Heaven to our vision,
And foretaste of pleasures purely Elysian.

How comely and fair thine innocent face,
Thou dost find in all hearts the tenderest place,
Thy presence so soothing—angelic its charms!
I feel nearer Heaven with you in my arms.
We welcome you here in our hearts, in our home.
And say: "Little darling we're glad you have come;"
"O may you remain long, to comfort and bless!"
We kiss your fair brow—and tenderly press
You close to our hearts—and say: "Precious one,
Welcome, thrice welcome to hearts and to home!"

But while these fair thoughts pass through the brain,
A tinge of regret the bright pictures stain—
When we think of the struggle with life, and its cares,
Its sorrows and pains, temptations and snares.
Instinctively pressing thee fondly and close,
We fain would protect from each cold wind that blows.
Exclaiming: "O cannot our love prove to be
A safegaurd 'gainst ills that may over take thee?"

How naturally would we, had we the power,
Strew all thy pathway with beautiful flowers.
We would ne'er let thy heart feel sorrow's cold blight,
But fill every hour with joy and delight,
Bnt no, indeed no! that never would do!
Our fond selfish love would thus deprive you
Of a heritage greater, and holier far—
One that differs as much as the sun from the star,
And this is Experience bitter and stern
By which all the best things in this life we learn.

We know there's a work for those small hands to do,
The feet must not falter, the heart must keep true,
The judgment mature, and intellect grow,
While you through this world unflinchingly go.
And with all the wishes that mothers could make—
That you of life's sorrows may lightly partake,
I would pray to the Father for knowledge and light,
Invoking His spirit to guide you aright,
To direct thy young feet through all thy youth,
In Wisdom unto the fountain of Truth.
							E. R. S.—M. D.
Sept 9th 1889.


