		SECURE OUR SALVATION.

	"The glory of God is intelligence.” “We
cannot be saved in ignorance,” Are express-
ions often used by our public speakers. But
they do not always tell us what kind of knowl-
edge is necessary for our salvation. This is
to all of us a very important question. If
our salvation depends upon our education or
the knowledge we obtain in this life. I say it
is of vital importance to us, that we should
know of a certainty, what kind of education
is required, that our time and energies may
not be expended in the wrong direction. If
it is a college education or to become pro-
ficient in the arts and sciences of the day,
that is meant, what will become of the millions
who have and who now inhabit the earth, who
have not had the privilege of attending
these places of learning? A just and loving
Father would not make that kind of in-
telligence a condition of salvation unless it
was within the reach of all to obtain it. There-
fore it must be something else that is meant.
	I think the education repuired to save us,
is the education the gospel of Jesus Christ
gives those who practice its principles.
	This gospel which is a perfect plan of life
and salvation, is offered without money and
without price to all the inhabitants of the 
earth. And it is within the reach of every
one. The poorest and most humble can


receive this kind of education, this intelligence,
as much as the wealthy, and go on from one
principle to another until they find themselves
in the Celestial Kingdom of God, graduated
if you will allow the term, from ignorance and
dense darkness into the light and intelligence
of celestial beings. All other kinds of edu-
cation fall into insignificance compared with
this. Does not the Bible say, “to know God
and His son Jesus Christ is eternal life?”
	The Gospel is so plain, that it was said by
the Savior, “that a way-faring man though a
fool need not err therein.”
	Joseph Smith was taught of God and was
transformed from an unlettered youth, into
an intelligent, educated, polished gentleman;
the peer of the noblest the earth possessed, in
worldly wisdom, such as men boast of to day;
besides his wonderful spiritual gifts pertaining
to his position as the mouthpiece of God.
Proving the truth of the scripture, which
says “seek ye first the Kingdom of God and
its righteousness and all else shall be added
unto you.” This shows that a person loses
nothing but gains much, by devoting his time
in acquiring a Knowledge of his creator and
how to regain his presence. My dear sisters
it is our privilege to have this great edu-
cator, even the Holy Ghost, to be our constant
companion. It will teach us of our duties
warn us of danger, and be a lamp to our feet
and a light to our path. Girls let us repent
of our follies and light-mindedness, and live up
to our privileges, that we may enjoy the in-
spirations of God and receive revelation for
ourselves. Pres. Woodruff said at the Y. M’s
conference, that it is the privilege of every
man, woman and child old enough to under-
stand such things to receive revelations for
himself. What a priceless boon. It is worth
living for. Girls try to live for this, and when
choosing your life companions, remember it is
your privilege to know the will of the Lord, in
this all-important matter. That God will
bless the youth and incline their hearts to
seek after him, is my earnest prayer.
