DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES:
	The basis of free government is the right of the
people to govern themselves.
	The object of the Federal constitution is to
secure a free government to the people of the
United States, wherein all persons shall be pro-
tected in life, liberty and property and in the en-
joyment of every right essential to their happiness
and not inconsistent with the rights of others.
	We regard the Constitution as a sacred char-
ter of human liberty; we revere its principles and
declare our unwavering allegiance to the govern-
ment and laws made in pursuance of its pro.
visions.	
	The People’s Party has always upheld these
principles. It has maintained the right of local
self government. It has contended for the free-
dom and purity of elections. It has opposed
class legislation. It has promoted honesty in all
branches of the public service. It has main-
tained equality before the law. It has been
characterized by justice, prudence and fidelity.
Taxation has been uniform and lower in Utah
than in any other territory. There have been no
extravagant salaries, no jobbery, no schemes for
great bonded debts. Life and property have
been secure, morality has been fostered and vice
repressed. It is the party of conservative pro-
gress, commensurate with public necessities and
resources.
	Opposed to the People’s party is the self-styled
“Liberal” party, which professes to venerate the
Constitution while violating its fundamental
truths. It arrogates to its members the honored
name of Americans while seeking to deprive a
large class of American citizens of the substantial

[Column 2]
rights of freedom. Through its persistent mis-
representation the right of trial by jury has been
abridged and almost destroyed in this territory.
By procuring unrepublican test oaths and other
proscriptive legislation it has disfranchished many
citizens, because they would not support its men
and measures. For this cause only, it has 
succeeded in robbing the women of Utah of the
elective franchise after they had exercised it for
seventeen years. It has endeavored to supplant a
legislature elected by the people with a commis-
sion appointed by the Federal government. It
has sought to erect an insuperable barrier of
prejudice against the admission of Utah as a
state. It seeks to extend to this territory the
infamous enactments by which, in Idaho, thou-
sands of law-abiding citizens are stripped of every
political right, solely because of their member-
ship in an unpopular religious organization. It
avows, through its organs, its intention to procure
such Congressional legislation as will debar all
persons, who belong to that religious body from
acquiring title to any part of the public domain.
It is therefore destructive of popular liberty and
upworthy of the support of any just, liberal and
patriotic citizen.
	We believe that the supremacy of the “Liberal”
party means class disfranchisement, excessive
taxation, official extravagance, and laxity in public
social regulations, and that the supremacy of the
People’s party means equality before the law, rea-
sonable taxes, official honesty and prudence, and
the maintenance of the proud reputation of the city
for law and order.
	That the progress and improvements demanded
by the growth of the city may be secured we de-
clare that:

