RAILROADS.
7—	Good railroad facilities are necessary to the


growth and development of the city and con-
venience of its inhabitants.  But rights of way for
steam railroads through our streets should only
be granted where absolutely necessary, and then
in such manner as to cause as little injury and in-
convenience to the inhabitants as possible, and
only on the consent of a two thirds majority of the
owners of real property fronting on the street.  No
exclusive street franchises to railroads should
hereafter be granted, but all steam railroads com-
ing in or going out of the city in the same direc-
tion should so far as practicable use the same right
of way, and no side tracks should be allowed on
the streets.  Forfeiture of a franchise should fol-
low persistent neglect to comply with its terms.
No freight trains should run through populous
parts of the city and no cars should be unloaded
or left standing on the streets or sidewalks.
	All railroads should conform to the proper grade
of the streets, which should be kept graded up to
the top of the rails and the street crossings of all
railroads should be planked the full width of the
streets and sidewalks.
	We pledge ourselves to lend our aid and influ-
ence to induce all railroad companies now here to
join in the erection and use of a union depot for
passenger purposes, and to have their freight de-
pots on the outskirts of the city.
				POLICE.
	8—The police force should be neatly uniformed
and be extended so as to give protection to every
municipal ward.
		SUPPRESSION OF VICE.
	9—Gambling houses and houses of ill fame
should be suppressed, and both male and female
resorters to such places should be punished with
the full rigor of the law.
				LIQUOR.
	10—We are opposed to the traffic in liquor and
favor the highest license practicable, and the
strictest execution of the laws for its regulation.
		ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES.
	11—All the ordinances of the city should be
vigorously enforced.
		TAXATION AND PUBLIC DEBT.
	12—Taxes should be equal and uniform, and
limited to the necessities of municipal government,
economically administered, and to the making of
public improvements essential to the well being of
the inhabitants and consistent with the growth
and development of the city.
	It is just that future inhabitants who will enjoy
the benefits of public improvements should assist
in bearing the burdens of their expense. 
			CONCLUSION.
	The People’s Party pledges itself to this plat-
form, and to the maintenance and defense of con-
stitutional principles and the rights of mankind,
and will ever labor to promote universal liberty,
civil, political and religious.


