A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	Mr. and Mrs. George Goddard celebrated their
wedding anniversary after fifty years, on Wednes-
day September 10, 1889, at their residence in this
city. The fiftieth anniversary is an event but com-
paratively few have the opportunity of enjoying.
On this propitious occasion there were present
their children and grandchildren something over
fifty in all and a few intimate friends. The affair
was somewhat informal, though toasts were given
and responded too, congratulations offered and
Mr. Hyrum Goddard in behalf of his brothers and
sisters in a happy manner and with an appropriate
and affectionate address made the presentation to
the father and to the mother each, of this large
family a gold watch suitably engraved. This
called forth a response from the parents, on the
mother’s part quite affecting. Bishop Millen At-
wood and wife were present and presented the
bride and bridegroom,each, with a gold pen a very
appropriate gift, with which they “may point a
moral or paint a tale,” as they must have material
for either in the experience of the long years they
have lived together. Other presents of value were
given, but friends are not estimated by gold values
but the intrinsic worth of true hearts and of this,
these good people have an abundance. Music,
singing, and feasting as well as conversation
characterized the gathering and doubtless this


Golden Wedding after fifty years was quite as joy-
ful as the first, though there was probably not so
much ceremony.
	Mr. George Goddard and Miss Elizabeth Harri-
son, were united in marriage on the 10th, day of
September, 1839, in the Church of St. Margaret
in Leicester, England, the ceremony being per-
formed by the Curate in the unavoidable absence
of the Rev. Andrew Irving, who was desirous of
being present to marry them himself.
	Brother and Sister Goddard recieved the Gospel
in Leicester their native place and came to
America in 1852, encountering many perils upon
the way. Four little ones were buried by the way
side, and one was buried in the fathomless
ocean. They have had thirteen children of whom
only five are living, yet the grandchildren are as
numerous accordingly as their own family were.
	The writer offers sincere congratulations to
Bro. and Sister Goddard,and trusts that the golden
bark that has safely breasted so many adverse
rides, may now sail smoothly onward until it
reaches that sure haven, where there are no more
fierce encounters with winds and waves,or troubles
and sorrows, and where there is a fulness of joy
forever.


