		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th,
Ward Assembly Rooms in this city Thursday
September 12, 1889.  Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
presiding.  On the Stand were seated her
Counselor Helen Mar Whitney and of the
officers of the Central Relief Society Board
Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith and Secretary
Sarah M. Kimball and Stake Secretary Eliza-
beth Howard, and many of the Presidents of
branches in the Stake.  Meeting opened by
singing, “O, Jesus the giver of all we enjoy.”
Prayer by Mrs. Diana Reed.  Singing “Where
the voice of friendship’s heard.” Twentyfour
presidents, five counselors, and one teacher re-
sponded to the roll call.  Minutes of last Con-
ference read and accepted.
	Mrs, Hannah E. Crosby of St. George ad-
dressed the sisters.  She spoke of her arrival
in the valley in the first company that fol-
lowed the pioneers in 1847—was one of the first
ten wagons of the first hundred, and camped
on what is now known as pioneer square in the
15th Ward. “We had no houses then but we
soon made homes, we were called to St. George
27 years ago and we have now a pleasant
home.  I have quite a family of boys.  I do
not know how it would have been had I
raised them here in this City as it is now. I
am thankful they are all faithful members of
the Church.  Our Relief Society is about in the
same position as yours here, and our reports
are about the same.  We have a Temple as
you know, and we as a Society do a great deal
in that direction, and have made carpeting to
supply the building and renewed it again, each
branch will make a bunch of the warp. We
enjoy ourselves working in the Temple and in
our other duties.”
	Pres. Horne was glad the Society of the
Stake had made such good reports and each
one been so prompt in the duties pertaining
thereto; thought the sisters would need all the
spiritual strength they could get, to live through
the trying times; said “we will need to live our
religion that we may be enabled to endure to
the last, and let us cultivate wisdom and
patience, we require these gifts.” She was
pleased that the Relief Society was taking an
interest in storing grain, urged the necessity
of taking good care of it. “Let us pray for
the wayward that they may return to the fold


[Column 1]
of Jesus; the Lord will seek after them if  we
do our duty in this respect."
    Conference was adjourned to 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, "The time is far spent &c."  Benediction
by Mrs. B. W. Smith.
    Afternoon session:    Counselor H.M. Whit-
ney presiding.    President Zina D.H. Young
on the stand.  Singing "Our God we raise to
Thee."  Mrs. Whitney addressed the meeting.
"We are working for the future, and we are
seeing the fulfillment of the words of the
prophets;  the power of evil is increasing; let
us have a true testimony for ourselves that we
know this work is of God."
    Pres. Z. D. H. Young, "we are blest in com-
ing together that our spirits may be clothed
with the robes of righteousness.  I have been
to Logan Temple, it is precious to me to set
my foot in that sacred spot, those who have the
privilege of going there are blessed indeed.
Our children are ours forever, throughout all
eternity if we are faithful, we have to be tried
and proven, and we will come to that spot, where
we will say "Father it is me and He will give
us grace when we trust in Him."
    Mrs. S. M. Kimball, "I am much interested
in our reports I realize we are a growing peo-
ple, our borders are enlarging."
    "In attending divine service while visiting
in the East I noticed there were many more
women than men and very few children."  She
then gave an interesting account of admin-
istering the Sacrament in sectarian Churches;
and also of the centennial celebration of the
town where she was born, and where her family
had settled in an early day; heard the Rev.
Talmage speak, he told the people nothing
about the plan of salvation.  Sister Kimball
also visited the Hill Cumorah saw the place
where the records were given to the Prophet
Joseph; she also went to the Temple lot in
Independence and saw a gentleman there who
told her "there would be a beautiful Temple
erected there and then we would all come to
the unity of the faith."
    Mrs. R. R. Grant spoke a short time and
referred to her reading the history of the
Prophet Joseph, "his sayings are well worth
our studying.  Let us cultivate the spirit of
charity, let us speak of each other's virtues and
not the weaknesses; we covenant to sustain
the anointed of the Lord.  Let us see that we
do this and speak evil of no one."
    Mrs. M.A. Hazon, Pres. R.S. Brighton, Mrs.
Martha B. Young, Mrs. M. A. Freeze, Mrs.
Elizabeth Mc'Donald of  Arizona, Mrs. Har-
mon, Mrs. Brimley, Mrs. Sarah  Gibson, Pres.
R. S. Sugar House Ward, Mrs. M.A.Lambert
Pres. R. S. 7th,  Ward Salt Lake City, Mrs.
Jane Miller, Pres. R.S. 20th,  Ward Salt Lake
City and Mrs. M. A. E. Watmough each made
a few remarks full of faith and encouragement
and bore strong testimony to the divinity of the
Latter-day  work. The gifts of the Gospel
rested upon some of the sisters in a goodly de-
gree.
    Conference adjourned to December next.
Singing. "Praise to the man &c." Benedic-
tion by Elder Theodore Curtis.
					E. Howard, Secretary.
			Y. L.M. I. A.
    ( The Quarterly Conference of the Young
Ladies Associations of Salt Lake Stake was
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this
city Friday Sept. 13, 1889.  Mrs. Mary A:
Freeze presiding.)  Meeting opened by singing,
"We thank Thee O God for a prophet."  Prayer
by Miss Edith Sampson, continued singing
"I'll serve the Lord while I am young."
General Report was read including twenty as-
sociations, showing them to be in a thriving
condition.

[Column 2]
Pres. Freeze addressed the meeting felt that
the young sisters had come with prayerful
spirits and if prompted by the Holy Ghost each
one would receive that which would do her the
most good.  Counselor M. Y. Dougall of the
General Presidency of the Association urged
the young ladies to attend their meetings and to
pray for a testimony and it would be given
them, explained how she had received one for
herself, and entreated the young sisters to rise
to their feet and say a few words and courage
and strength would be given them; referred to
her belief in the other world and the great work
to be done, exhorted the girls not to be ashamed
of the Gospel but be faithful to our belief and
keep the commandments that have been given.
Advised those who had joined with the Young
Men's association to have their Secretary keep
a strict report of all the young ladies part in
the Conjoint meetings.
    Counselor Mary P. Young spoke of the fear
she had to speak, but always responded when
called upon, she testified that her heart and soul
were in the Latter-day work.  Mentioned her
recent visit to the Logan Temple and how
happy she felt in her work there, exhorted the
young people to be married in the Temple and
begin life aright, never let their affections go
out in the wrong direction, but pray to be
guided by the Holy Spirit, never allow our-
selves to speak of the faults of our loved ones.
    Pres. Freeze made a few remarks upon
solemnizing one's thoughts before going into a
meeting, thought we should not talk or laugh
on our way to a meeting but should concentrate
the thoughts of our hearts upon sacred things.
    Sister Lillie Freeze said the sisters are very
practical in their teaching, speaking of home
and the training of children; thought each one
should have a testimony for herself and not
rely upon any other, "if we have faith we will
be willing to make any sacrifice required of us;
we should lay a good foundation for our child-
ren;" warned the young ladies against seeking
any means but a prayerful one to learn of the
future, etc.
    Sister Jane Freeze spoke of the timidity the
sisters felt when rising to speak, but advised
them to keep on trying and the Lord would
help them, thought that by speaking in their
own meetings they would gain courage.
    Pres. Freeze then requested all the young
ladies to become missionaries in the several
wards to impart the good instructions we had
received today to others.
    Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m.
Singing, "Come let us anew &c.," prayer by
Sister Sarah Mitchell.
    Afternoon session:   Opened by  singing,
"Joy to the world &c.," prayer by Mrs. Maria
Holt, after singing again the officers of the
Stake were presented and sustained as follows:
Mary. A. Freeze, President, Nellie Colebrook,
Mary P. Young, Counselors, Dr. Maggie C.
Shipp, Edith Sampson, Maria Holt, Clara S.
Carlisle and Jane Freeze Assistants.  Lizzie
Smith, Secretary, Minnie H. James Assistant
Secretary, Lizzie Greene, Rec. Secretary, Ella
Dallas, Cor. Secretary, Dr. Romania B. Pratt,
Treasurer.
    Counselor Nellie Colebrook addressed the
meeting, spoke of her long absence from the
meetings, it seemed as though she had been
asleep; thought we appreciated our friends
when separated from them, during her absence
had  noticed how few keep the Sabbath day
holy.  Urged the young ladies to consider the
importance of this and resist the temptation to

[Column 3]
desecrate that holy day.  "Let us work with a
will, bury our selfishness, pray earnestly for a
foregiveness of our sins and for charity, faith
to stand firm in our religion, that the links we
form here may  last throughout the ages of
eternity."
    Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, always believed that
a lady will be respected in all places, and en-
treated the young women with all her power of
pursuasion to deport themselves as Saints no
matter where they were or with whom associ-
ated.  Thought we should be interested in
every young lady in the City or Country and
try to do them good.  "There is work enough
for every energetic whole-souled Latter-day
Saint woman.
	Counselor B. W. Smith, "we should avoid
even the appearance of evil and not suffer our-
selves to be led astray by beautiful words, flat-
tering though they may be.  I have been in the
Church 55 years and have never seen the time
when I felt it would do to associate with the
frivolous.   You young girls are laying a
foundation for future peace and happiness or
misery; rely upon God who can guide and
protect you in all places. The blessings in store
for the good and faithful are beyond our com-
prehension."
    (Counselor Lillie Freeze, "Young girls when
forming their character's should give serious
thoughts as to what a character should be, it
makes little difference what others think of us,
so long as God is pleased with us."   Sister
Freeze then spoke in the gift of tongues and
Dr. M. C. Shipp gave the interpretation.
    Counselor M. Y. Dougall said she felt so
overcome in hearing the gift of tongues exer-
cised that she could scarcely control her feel-
ings.)   Felt that Satan had all his power cen-
tered here in Zion and we should guard against
it.    We should keep our children around us
and watch over them.  Our sons as well as
our daughters; win their confidence and affec-
tion, that they and all of us may make our
lives as perfect as possible.
    (Pres. Mary A. Freeze thought the testi-
monies received today should strengthen our
faith and make us better able to face the duties
of life.)  She desired the Associations to report
home-readings and urge and stimulate the
young ladies to read good books.
    Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing,  Doxology.    Prayer by  Clara  S.
Carlisle.
			Lizzie Smith, Secretary.


