		﻿MORE SEVERE MEASURES.
	The report of the Utah Commission as it ap-
pears in the telegrams from Washington, is much
more radical than heretofore. These commission-
ers make several new and startling recommenda-
tions. They feel in duty bound to urge upon
Congress still more stringent methods of putting
a stop to the practice of polygamy, and to do this
would have“the terms of imprisonment for unlaw-
ful cohabitation extended to at least two years
for the first and three years for the second of-
fense;” and in addition to this inhumane recommen-
dation, they also propose to punish women though
they have not stated just the extent of the term
for imprisonment leaving so much to the discretion
of Congress. The pain and suffering and sorrow
already entailed upon the women and children in
this Territory, does not seem to have had any
effect upon them; women have already been
punished for not testifying against themselves (or
their husbands) (which is the same thing.)
	Annie Gallifant the first woman sent to the
Penitentiary under the Edmund’s law, and whose
babe was born immediately after; then Belle
Harris separated from one little child took her
babe with her to prison, Nellie White who was
in a very delicate condition, was also kept there
awaiting the pleasure of the court to dismiss the
Grand Jury which they held over as long as

[column 2]

possible, Mrs. Argyle who was there until it
caused the death of her babe;—these are cases
well known to the public. The Courts in Utah
can already do such things as these and yet it is
not enough, to satisfy the Commission.	
	Besides cases of this kind when one thinks of
the homes broken up, the women and children
who have gone into exile to escape the indelicate
 questions and merciless proceedings of the Courts,
and their deputies and aids, the privation and
hardships consequent thereupon, and the many
deaths of women and children that have directly
or indirectly, been caused by the harsh methods
used by men, who have had the power to enforce
the Edmunds law,and the distress of mind almost
worse than death of others; who have seemingly
never regarded any more the feelings or con-
dition of Mormon women, than they would so
many animals; when one reflects upon these pro-
ceedings in the past and knows the results, and
then considers that still more is desired by men
right here in Utah who know all these facts, one
wonders what manner of men these commission-
ers are; they must belong to the class spoken of
in the Scriptures “without natural affection,” or
destitute of that feeling of philanthropy that
characterizes the greater portion of mankind.
	In addition to increasing the term of imprison-
ment for men they recommend that sentence to
hard labor be imposed also that they may not
spend the time of their confinement “in idleness
and in the glorification of their supposed martyr
dom.” It appears from this that the “Mormons"
even in prison are too happy to suit their wishes.
They would also have them excluded from mak-
ing location and settlement upon public lands,
and further that “the laws with reference to
immigration shall be so amended as to prevent
the immigration of persons claiming their religion
justified the crime of polygamy;” and more over
the Constitution should be amended so as to
further prohibit the practice of polygamy.”
	Truly these commissioners must have been
magnanimously disposed when they devised a
scheme to inflict if possible still more severe
punishment for religious belief. Is it not the
same spirit that existed in former days when
Daniel was not allowed to pray to God?
	Then the Presidents and Princes assembled to-
gether and concocted a scheme whereby the
King should make an inexorable law, that Daniel
should be caught in the snare. But that plot
did not succeed, and the God of Israel is as
able to deliver his people in this day as He was to
deliver Daniel; and the Latter-day Saints do
rejoice in the Gospel and are not afraid, expect to
obey the law, and wherever any infringement
upon the law is found, men are  brought before the
court and sentenced  All the persecution that
can be brought to bear cannot kill out belief; the
history of the ages repeats over and over again
this truth. Surely this people can with propriety
repeat the sublime words of the poet when they
read the report of the Utah Commission.
		“Man’s inhumanity to man
	Makes conntless thousands mourn,”


