		TENNYSON’S BIRTHDAY.
	The eightieth birthday anniversary of
Alfred Tennyson was celebrated on Tuesday,
August 6th. The occasion was not celebrated
with noise and ostentation, but throughout the
civilized world it was remembered with re-
spect and reverence for the venerable poet, by
millions of warm admirers of his splendid
genius.
	Alfred Tennyson is undeniably the greatest
living poet, and is by many competent critics
regarded as the greatest of English poets, of
any age—always, of course, conceding the
pre-eminence of Shakespeare in the field of
dramatic literature. Like Goethe and Hugo
Lord Tennyson rounded out his fourscore
years without having suffered any serious
impairment of his intellectual vigor. The

[column 2]

second “Locksley Hall' and “Tiresias,” which
date back, respectively, but three and four
years, sufficiently sustain this statement, and
the new volume, announced to be published
during the coming fall, will doubtless supply
still further evidence of its truth.
	And what a period it is that this long and
busy life has spanned! “Waverley” was un-
published when Alfred Tennyson was born.
The best work of Wordsworth and Coleridge
lay just behind him, but his own boyhood wit-
nessed the publication of all or nearly all the
work of Byron, Shelley, and Keats. Yet
when the time came for his own appearance
upon the stage of letters these mighty voices
were forced to acknowledge the master chords,
and from the publication, in 1827, of the
“Poems by Two Brothers” to that of the new
“Locksley Hall”—“sixty years later,” in a
literary sense—English poetry has offered no
name to be compared with his. It is true that
for a score of years from the time when Tenny-
son’s first work was given to the public, the
figure of Wordsworth was the most conspic-
uous in English letters, but the period of
Wordsworth's noblest productivity was over
before Alfred Tennyson came into the world.
For upwards of sixty years, then, his has been
the great name of our contemporary literature;
recognizable as such by many from the ap-
pearance of the lyrical volumes of 1830 and
1833, and by all having any competency of
judgment in the matter from the appearance of
the volumes of 1842.
	It may be said of Tennyson that one of the
secrets of his power is this: that he has never
cheapened himself by too frequent and indis-
criminate utterance. His work is finished
as the work of no other English poet
is finished. Of the six or seven hundred
closely printed pages which contain that work
there are not ten that his most critical admirer
could wish unwritten. Restraint is the high-
est of all the literary virtues, and no poet has
ever shown more of it than he. But besides
restraint, which is after all a matter of
character, and besides finish, which is, after
all, a matter of industry, Lord Tennyson has
the genius for poetical expression, which is a
matter of neither character nor industry, and
which is the endowment of but one man
among millions. He has the power of ex-
pression in a pre-eminent degree; in the degree
in which Virgil has it; almost in the degree
in which Shakespeare has it. His readers
hardly need to be reminded of this, or to have
indicated for them any of those countless
felicities of expression which abound in his
works; those expressions of which “In
Memoriam,” for example, is so prolific.
Shakespeare and Milton are the only other
English poets whose style will as well and as
uniformly repay the closest examination.
	This much of the form of Lord Tennyson's
poetry; but something remains to be said of
the matter, for it is not by mere technical
perfection of workmanship that he has gained
his place in our regard. His matter is,
briefly, that which lies closest to the hearts
of all men of the English race, and appeals
to the deepest instincts of their natures. The
domestic affections and the sanctity of the
home, a patriotism not narrowed into selfish
disregard of the rest of mankind and a
religious feeling too broad to be fettered by
any creeds and too profound to be agitated
by the surface currents of thought; these are
the themes of one who is no mere laureate by
royal favor of a court and a dynasty, but
the laureate by divine right of genius, of all
serious men and women of all our race. A
conservative of the finest type, he is no
reactionary, set upon barring the steps of
progress. A champion of the existing order
embodies the hard earned fruits of the long
struggle for light and justice, which is Eng-

[column 3] 

land’s proudest title to a place in the fore-
most page of history, his eye has ever been
keen to perceive “the vision of the future” and
his mind to recognize the fact that always, in
any age not hopelessly stagnant, “the old
order changeth, giving place unto the new.”
The liberty which is not license, and the reason-
able orderliness of life which accepts law with-
out chafing, and which is alone made really
possible by its acceptance of law—“acting the
law we live by without fear”—this is the social
ideal which he has persistently held up before
the English-speaking world during these sixty
years.
	To the individual Lord Tennyson’s message
has been consistent from first to last. The
message is not the most hopeful one that has
come to us, but it is the best, perhaps, that our
age is capable of heeding, and it is assuredly
the weightiest borne by any of our contem-
poraries.
	The most thoughtful men among us are
coming to feel more and more, with our poet,
that “we know not anything,” and that

	We can but trust that good shall fall
	At last—far off—at last to all,
	And every winter change to spring.
								Ex.


