		Or more or less, we all are bound to share.


To day our friends are scatter'd far and wide
	Our "fireside circles," ruthlessly are riven;
Drifting on persecution's heaving tide
	From sweet home comforts dearest ones are driven. 

The true and just are counted lawful prey,
	Denounced as aliens or as traitors bold,
Are robb'd of Freeman's rights in open day
	A shameful sight for Freemen to behold. 

Yet, as the noted worthies heretofore,
	Who served as targets for the clamorous crowd
Counted as gain, the scorn and shame they bore;
	And in the midst of pain rejoiced aloud,

So Zion's children are and must be brave,
	Hopeful and humble, patient in distress,
Must trust in Him alone, whose power can save;
	Who surely will, His children's wrongs redress

God's own "peculiar people" tried yet choice,
	Can bid despondency to Hope give place
God's own "peculiar people" can rejoice
	Above all other's on the Earth's broad face.

In sacred circles, or at social feasts,
	God gives the pure of heart his peace profound
This natal Jubilee is proof at least
	Despite our troubles, cheerful souls abound.

From purest friendliness, convene we here
	And cordially as one we all unite
To pay respect to One beloved and near
	To honor this important festive night.

Dear Sister Cannon! needless 'tis to tell
	Your bark has breasted oft an adverse tide;
Yet, hosts of friends are yours, who wish you well,
	Who trust o'er smoother waters, yet you'll glide.

O may your days and years be lengthen'd out,
	To whatso'e'er extent you may desire;
And may, true love, encircle you about;
	And living Faith and Hope your soul inspire.
					Your Friend
						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, Sept. 11. 1889.


[Column 1]
HEPHZIBAH.
VIII.
		Once more good bye, to loving friends and dear;
			A fond adieu to meadows, groves and brook;
		Now other scenes, the lonely heart must cheer,
			Nor backward turn with one regretful look.

	The preparations for Hepsie's departure were
completed, and with a sorrowful countenance,
she heard the announcement that all was ready
for her journey.
	"I must go over all the dear places once
more, mother, and say good-bye perhaps for-
ever; there are hills to climb and golden rod
to gather, I'll wear a bunch of it; and in the
meadows there are daisies still, I'll have a hand-
full of them, tomorrow morning I must go to
the grove and hear the birds sing again, and
then the brook, I love so much, there are fine
ferns there, I'll take a few of those, and then
you know mother, I have so many friends to
part with, old and young, I'm going so far, and
it will be years perhaps, before I come back,
didn't you say so?"
	"Yes, I said you had better stay three or
four years there, but we shall come to see you
sometimes." 
	"But you can't bring all the lovely places
with you, O, I must go over them once more!"
	Her mother listened in astonishment, "why
Hepsie you've been at home for weeks, and
going here and there through the village, say-

[Column 2]
ing your tender things to young and old, and
roaming in the hills, filling the house with
Autumn leaves, and brown and yellow vines
and twining them about the rooms in your
own queer way; you cannot take such rubbish
with you, besides the hills there are full of
them; and you will be very near the river, the
beautiful Connecticutt."
	"Yes," interposed Marion an older sister
"but Hepsie loves our little brook here at home,
more than she will ever love the grandest
river, that's where she gets her inspiration
from!"
	"What to make verses," chimed in one of
the boys, "O yes, I know, she talks to herself
down there; I've often heard her, and she told
me that she believed, if there ever were true
fairies, they were in the hemlock grove, down
by that brook." 
	"Jamie you said you wouldn't tell," cried
Hepsie, and then she burst into tears. These
were her childish secrets, and she did not like
them told, not even in her own home.
	The mother heard the children talk on
among themselves, but she made no comment,
wise woman indeed, yet deep down in her heart
half-consciously a thought, a hope was lurking,
that some day Hepsie might be all her grandpa
had promised on the day of her birth.
	The evening was passed in talking over the
affair uppermost in the minds of all the family;
Hepsie's going away again to another school;
and each one had something to say before part-
ing for the night or some advice to give; and
many plans were laid for the morrow. Early
in the morning Hepsie and her brothers were
off to the grove to hear the birds sing, and
gather the ferns, and all day long, she was go-
ing hither and thither taking leave of all she
held so dear, outdoors and in. One might set
out for Egypt and the Nile in our day, and not
feel the breaking up and leave taking so much
as little Hepsie did, going away fifty miles to
school. Albeit Hepsie loved school, and
wanted to go, for she had "great expectations"
in her own way.
	We will not linger over the day, the last day
at home for a time, but simply state, there was
little eating, or sleeping among the children,
and Mrs. Hathaway was profoundly quiet.
Morning came and the house was soon astir—
it  was an Autumn morning and the trees were
many colored, the scarlet maples flashed in the
mellow sunlight, and the hills were fairly regal
in their gorgeous coloring.
	The parting was soon over, though many
tears were shed, and long after the coach was
out of sight, the children hung about the gate-
way, to try and catch one more glimpse of the
fine horses. Mrs. H. had entrusted Hepsie to
the care of a friend, who was going to the
county town whither Hepsie was bound, and
so she had no misgivings cencerning her safety.
The ride was simply delightful, and once she
ceased weeping, she enjoyed every moment.
The many colored hills and woods, the sumac,
mountain ash and maple, and other bright tints
of shrubbery were a perfect picture, as they
drove rapidly over the road; bridges were
crossed and hills climbed, pretty villages were
passed, and at noon the stage drove into a town
where there were a goodly number of Church
steeples, many large and handsome buildings;
on and on the stage rattled until the tavern
was reached; there the passengers alighted and
horses were put up. Dinner at the tavern, for
those who wished it, then fresh horses and


[Column 1]
another start—Hepsie had a delicate lunch
with her, and she could not even swallow a
little of that. A great sob was in her throat,
notwithstanding all her mental resolves, and
the beautiful scenes on every side. Her
mother's friend did not say much to the child,
and she was glad for her own thoughts were
company. Late in the evening they arrived
and found the sister and husband waiting when
the stage drove into town. Hannah took the
child in her arms embracing her too fondly al-
most, for Hepsie was not accustomed to such
caresses from grown people; and she scarcely
knew if she liked it; so "proper" had been her
training.
	Everything was new and strange, but this
time instead of an old romantic house and fur-
nishings it was altogether modern and stylish.
The sister plied the child with questions about
home, and the village folks, talking on of home
affairs until the tired girl was half asleep in
bed; then kissing her softly she left the room,
thinking to herself, what a sweet girl her little
sister had grown and how she had improved
since she had seen her last.
	When Hepsie woke she was thinking of the
ordeal she must soon go through of entering
school again. Her timidity was painful, and
she suffered much in her feelings that no one
knew, or would have guessed, she seemed so
composed outwardly. Hannah (or Mrs. Sever-
ance it was now) had promised to go with her
to see Miss Andrews the principal teacher, and
make all necessary arrangements.
	"O, what a beautiful woman! so sweet-man-
nered, and dignified, I'm sure I shall love her
quite as well as Miss Elliott, though she was a
'a most amiable person' (quoting Mrs. Grovse-
ner's words) but then I shall miss the club,"
said Hepsie, to her sister, after her first day at
the new school.
	"And who is Miss Elliott pray tell? You
know Hepsie you've been telling me about  Miss
Fay, who boasted of her brother at Yale, and
called you "opinionated, the girl in panta-
lettes" etc. I should like to know something
more about your 'club' what was it? All those
girls are to marry Ministers, Doctors, Lawyers,
or Professors of some sort. You too I suppose
entered into a compact did you?
	"Well, yes, we did, but then, I'll be too far away
now, to know what they do, of course they'll
write to me sometimes, Jane and Lucy will I
know, and as for Miss Fay, why she can't write
even an essay by herself.—”
	"Yon don't answer my questions little sister,
now please tell me first, who is Miss Elliot?
I'll begin at the beginning."
	"Miss Elliott was the Preceptress at the
High School at M—and a perfect lady; very
wise you know, but she couldn’t see everything
that was going on there, with all her learning.
She didn't dream that the girls were carrying
on flirtations under her very eyes, besides how
could she understand it, she was an old maid!"
	"O, then old maids are not supposed to be
wise in love matters, how is that?"
	"Mrs. Grovsener said single women had no
experience compared to one who married
and had a family, I don't think Miss Elliott
had even been in love, she was always so quiet,
and self-possessed, never betrayed any emotion
whatever happened in the schoolroom."
	"Little sister, I’m afraid your ideas are very
fallacious, especially about love; these giddy
school-girls have filled your head with non-
sense."
	"It wasn't the girls who gave me my im-
pressions, you know Hannah, I read all my
grandmother's love letters, in the old garret,
when I was a very little girl, she knew what
real love was; and then besides Mrs. G. a

[Column 2]
minister's wife, and a minister's daughter too,
she used to talk to me by the hour together."
	"Not about love I should think?" said
Hannah, "minister's wives generally are very
religious and serious, and they have work to do
that demands their time and energies, they
haven't much left for lectures on love."
	"Mrs. G. used to talk to me, Hannah in the
long evenings when the Rev. Erasmus was
asleep taking his rest and snoring, and she was
busy sewing, mending or darning always."
	"And pray what were you doing all the time
were you idle and she so industrious?"
	"O, no, I was making lace, or knitting, or
doing some little thing, Mrs. G. thought it a
sin to be idle, but sometimes when she was talk-
ing, I used to let my work fall out of my hands
to listen;—besides wasn’t I learning all the
time? she used to say, "Hepsie these are life-
lessons for you out of my own experience."
	"You are well posted about love perhaps
from reading love letters written ages ago, but
I must say I don't quite agree with you about
old maids, notwithstanding your authority on
the subject; I might differ with even a min-
ister's wife or daughter; their opportunities are
often very limited for observation. Our family
have lived within a stone's throw of the par-
sonage all our lives, and since my remem-
brance there have been half a dozen different
ministers engaged to preach in the village
Church, I don't think either of their wives knew
much about love; but never mind discussing
these opinions now, tell me about Miss Fay?
she seems to have antagonized you.”—Miss Fay
is as proud as a peacock and wears handsome
dresses, and elegant hats, and all that,—but
she was very glad to get "the girl in panta-
lettes" to help her get her lessons." "But
Hepsie that isn't telling me who she is?" "May
be not, but at school we didn't know much
about that, we judged the girls by their de-
portment, and what they could do;—however I
know all about Miss Fay, she's 'Squire Fay's
daughter, they live at M.—have a fine house;
she is not pretty, and I don't believe they're
very great people; Mrs. Grovsener didn't care
for them at all, she said Mrs. Fay was not a
lady,' though the 'Squire is a very influential
man in the town."
	"It appears to me you're always quoting Mrs.
G. but tell me hasn't Miss Fay another name,
you always speak of the other girls of the Club
as Jane, Lucy, Sarah and so on, how is it?"
	"It was always Miss Fay at school, she's an
only daughter—and her name is a very odd
one, Mehitable, her father calls her Hettie."
	"Mehitable, that's as ugly a name as yours!"
	"Hephzibah is a very grand name, Hannah,
and just think of the lady I'm named for—
what a superior woman she was, and every one
loved her. Hephzibah Hastings, afterwards
Hathaway—a curious combination of names
three grand ones together."
	“I am very glad you like your name little
sister; it don't make much difference, but I
remember how we all cried when grandpa
named you, such a sweet baby, you were."
	"And now I've grown out of the sweetness
I supposed and am full of all sorts of outre ideas,
and not a bit like other girls, that's what I 
often hear, the Club girls said that was the rea-
son they invited me to join them, not very
flattering either."
	This conversation and other similar ones
from time to time gave Mrs. Severance an in-
sight into Hepsie's character, though the child
was very careful never to talk when Mr. S.
was present—she did not like him, though she
had no good reason to give, and somehow she
never liked to mention him to her sister; she
could not understand how it was her sister had
chosen him, and yet they seemed perfectly sat-
isfied with each other.
	Hepsie was fast developing now, and her
originality made her a most agreeable com-

[Column 3]
	panion, and her progress in her studies was
very remarkable. Occasionally she received
letters from the "club girls" as she called them
but they were full of their beaux, and Hepsie
was too far off to have the same interest in their
affairs as formerly. Her sister's husband was
a musician, and Mrs. S. a fine singer, and in
the winter evenings a few friends, musical ones,
were in the habit of meeting there for recrea-
tion. No parties, no theatres, no public gather-
ings for the girls were allowed. Miss An-
drew's girls were entirely under her control
in this respect, as much as if they lived under
one roof. She was their escort over the hills,
through the woods, or river paths. She too
was musical in her tastes and a magnificient
singer, so she sometimes allowed herself an
evening at Mrs. Severance's much to Hepsie's
delight, for then she felt she had her teacher
all to herself, selfish love, and Miss Andrew's
partiality for the child was readily seen on
these occasions, in fact she scarcely talked of
anything else; she was very very fond of Hepsie
as well as very proud of her as a student.
And it was at this school Hepsie's compositions
and essays, and the comments made upon them
by the teachers created quite a sensation and
awoke considerable envy among the less for-
tunate girls. But we must not linger too
long over details, for we are reaching the
important period, the turning point in the
future life of this romantic school girl.


