IN HONOR OF HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe’s infirmities pre-
vented the famous authoress acknowledging in
person the testimonial extended to her this
afternoon. The affair was at the opera house
which was full to overflowing with the most
fashionable audience that has assembled there
for years. The testimonial took the shape of a
national pageant with a series of tableaux, rep-
resenting events and periods in American his-
tory, bringing to the foreground in a specially
strong light the achievements of American wo-
men and the events associated with the work
upon which Mrs. Stowe’s fame so largely rests.
The aged lady could not attend and was imper-
sonated by her sister, Mrs. Isabella Beecher
Hooker in a tableau in which it had been
hoped she could take part, “The writing of
Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
	Physically Mrs. Stowe is stronger than a
year ago, but mentally she is a little child.
The testimonial has been discussed with her,
but it interested her only as in her girlhood,
she might have been pleased with the prospect
of a new toy or a day’s pleasure.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, acting as histo-
rian, brifly introduced the tableaux which were
divided into four periods, viz: Ante-Colonial—
Columbus at the Court of Isabella.
	Colonial—Landing of the Pilgrims; The
Banishment of Annie Hutchison (this was from
Boston, in 1637, for discussing doctrinal ques-
tions); The Hiding of the Connecticut Charter.


Revolutionary period—the reception of
Martha Washington “(this included a minuet
by eight couples); “the Boston tea party;" the
battle of Bunker Hill, with British and Ameri-
can forces, represented by the Governor’s foot
guard and the Putnam phalanx; the execution
of Nathan hale; the reading of the Declara-
tion of Independence.
	National and reformatory period—the Bos-
ton broad cloth mob, representing the Boston
pro-slavery men who mobbed Garrison in 1835;
Anthony Burns returned to slavery; The de-
parture of Connecticut’s first regiment. the
Hartford companies of the Connecticut national
guard; Woman’s patriotism,” representing
nurses in the hospital; the emancipation proc-
lamation; the return of the Connecticut first
regiment, represented by Grand Army men;
Mrs. Stowe, writing “Uncle Tom’s Cabin;”
“Woman’s Sphere—1800,” being a New
England kitchen, with a mother and sixteen
children; “The Woman's Crusade,” represent-
ing a little band of women in Ohio, who in-
vaded the saloons and started the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union; “Woman’s
Sphere—1889,” with the professional and busi-
ness women of Hartford on the stage.
	The singing of Julia Ward Howe’s “Battle
Hymn of the Republic” closed the programme,
occupying over four hours. The audience
applauded almost every feature and encores
were frequent. Although given in the after-
noon it was the society event of the season,
and a large sum was realized for the further-
ance of enterprises in aid of women.
	Hartford. Conn., Sept. 24.


