EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Notes of the Coeur d’ Alene country, and our
visit, will appear in next issue.
	The Territorial Fair will open October 2, at 12
m., with music by the band, prayer by Bishop O.
F. Whitney and an address by Governor A. L.
Thomas. The Fair will be formally opened after
the music and exercises by Bishop John R.
Winder, President of the Society.
	The Constitution which the Wyoming Conven-
tion have introduced and which is to be presented
to Congress at its next session, accords equal
political rights to men and women. This should


be positive proof that suffrage in that Territory
has been a success in the past, and the Congress
of the United States will have an opportunity of
considering a question of vital importance to the
women of the nation. 
	The Utah Woman's Suffrage Associations will
hold a Convention in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City on Monday, October 7, at 2 p
m. Delegates from each of the organizations in 
the Territory have been officially notified and are
expected to be present and take part in the pro-
ceedings. Addresses will be made by prominent
speakers. All members of the Associations in
the city or country are most cordially invited, and 
also all men and women interested in the sub-
ject.
	On Thursday evening October 26, the writer
had the pleasure of meeting with Sir Julian and
Lady Goldschmidt at the residence of Mr. and 
Mrs. W. B. Dougall in this city, where a few
ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
among the number had been invited to meet these
distinguished people who are on a visit to 
America. Sir Julian Goldschmidt is a Baronet, a
member of the House of Lords of the Parliament 
of Great Britain. Lady Goldschmidt herself is
an Italian born in Florence and devotedly attached
to her mother country; though she seems to have
a profound adoration for her illustrious Lord
and husband. She is a graceful figure polished
in manners, and charming in conversation; she
has the ease and elegance of the true lady, with-
out any of the ostentation and arrogance that
sometimes characterizes the nobility of England
and other lands. She seemed rather proud of
being the mother of eight daughters, and spoke
of her home and housekeeping with matronly im-
portance. Lady Goldschmidt however scorns the
very idea of woman's suffrage or even speaking
in public, and gave the same sort of reasons that
are constantly being used by its opponents. And 
yet she deprecated the flirting and coquetting of
women "in the best society" where refinement
and delicacy such as she alluded to are supposed
to prevail. The Lady is an accomplished
musician and though she only played one little
selection that evening her whole soul seemed to 
be in it. We were told she was a fine singer and
very much regretted not hearing her, but she de-
clared she did not remember one whole verse of 
any of her songs.


