W. S. A. MILLARD CO.
	The regular quarterly meeting of the W. S.
A. of Millard Co., was held at Fillmore Aug.,
24.
	Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh presiding. The
meeting was fairly well attended, there being 
quite a few of the "sterner sex" present.
Prayer was offered by Thos. Gates Esq.
Minutes of last meeting read, and roll called.
The quarterly report of work done was laid be-
fore the meeting. The president stated what
were the duties pertaining to each office, and
the need there was, that all should work in
unity, and harmony.
	T. C. Callister, J. A. Melville, George Crane,
Thos. Gates and C. Anderson severally ad-
dressed the meeting, all speaking in favor of
woman’s rights, and freedom. The speakers
all paid their tribute to woman’s capabilities
and capacity for business, and her ability to
fill many offices hitherto held exclusively by
men, and pointing to the mark she had made
in literature, science and art as a proof of what
women could do, in other positions, if they were
educated up to the standard of men, their
mental capacity being fully equal to that of
their brothers. The speakers made some very
humorous and pithy remarks about women in


[column 1]
politics, but all were characterized by good
feeling, and made the meeting a successful,
and pleasant one. The president proposed a
vote of thanks to the gentlemen for their
presence and support, which was unanimously
carried. The meeting closed with prayer by
W. H. Stott.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A. was
held in Holden Sept., 3. Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh presiding. The meeting was well at-
tended, there being a fair sprinkling of the "lords
of creation" present. The meeting was opened
by singing, prayer by Charles Wood. The 
president stated the object of the organization,
and the rights and privileges woman hoped to
obtain, especially the right to vote. This be-
ing the first meeting in Holden the Constitution
of the society was read, and the roll of mem-
bers called. The president then read a brief
sketch of Woman's Suffrage movement from its
commencement down to the present time point-
ing out many illustrious men and women who
had taken an active part in woman's struggle
for freedom and right. A. P. Harmon, Sydney
Teeples and Charles Wood, addressed the
assembly expressing themselves as being in
perfect sympathy with the suffrage movement,
and the undoubted right woman had to be
co equal with man, in social and political
affairs, and that woman was intended to fill a
higher sphere than that of a household drudge
and that she ought to be the peer and com-
panion of her husband. An interval was taken
for the enrollment of names, and the meeting
closed with prayer by A. P. Harmon.
	A meeting of the W. S. A. of Millard Co.,
was held at Deseret Sept. 10. Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh presiding.  The meeting opened
with singing by the choir,

	"Do what is right, the day dawn is breaking
	Hailing a future of freedom and right."

Prayer was offered by J. Black. The Consti-
tution was read, and roll of members called.
The president stated what was the object of the 
organization, and the rights and privileges
sought to be obtained, and gave a brief history
of the movement from its commencement, spoke
in terms of the highest respect and praise of the 
many noble men and women who had taken
part in the movement, and given both their
time, talents, and money to help forward the
cause. She had taken part in many struggles,
that appeared even more hopeless than this,
but had lived to see them successfully achieved
and had not the slightest doubt that the equal
rights movement would be equally triumphant.
The meeting was addressed by J. Black, J.
Bennett, W. Black, L. R. Cupper and W.
Hawley, all except the last named gentleman
were in favor of woman suffrage, and equal 
rights with men. Mr. Hawley thought the move-
ment a new fangled idea imported from across
the water, and that it was unconstitutional,
against reason, and against nature that woman
should hold any position except that of house-
wife, with several other equally fallacious argu-
ments. The president replied demolishing his
statements, and said he had strengthened the
cause by the poor arguments he had brought
against it, as much, or perhaps more than any
that had been used in favor of it.
	Mrs. E. Whicker, Mrs. A. Hinder, Mrs. M.
Stocks, Mrs. F. Cupper, Mrs. F. Scott, Mrs.
M. E. Peterson, Mrs. I. J. Bennett and Mrs.
Cynthia Black addressed the meeting, all
speaking clearly and emphatically in favor of
women having equal rights with the
men, and expressed themselves willing to
render all the assistance in their power, to the
furtherance of the movement. An interval was
taken for the enrollment of members, during
which time Mrs. Meta Wells spoke briefly in
favor of the suffrage and exhorted all to enroll
[column 2]
their names, and help on the cause of right
and freedom. The meeting was a numerous
and enthusiastic one, many names were added
to the list of members. The president said she
had been well repaid for the journey to Deseret
that being the largest, and most encouraging
meeting she had attended in the County, and
thanked them for their support and sympathy
with the cause of freedom and right. The 
meeting was closed with prayer by B. W.
Scott. 	
