LESSONS FOR APRIL The Relief Society Magazine Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Vol. 31 JANUARY 1944 No. 1

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
The Cover "The First Snow" Memorial Park, Salt Lake City, Photographed by Grace O. Tuttle
Message The General Board of Relief Society
Herod's Temple Drawing by Evan Jensen
"Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business?" Part II President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. 3
Award Winners Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest 13
In Times of War First Prize Poem Christie Lund Coles 14
Night Shadows Second Prize Poem Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 16
Benison Third Prize Poem Linda S. Fletcher 17
President Grant Acknowledges Birthday Remembrances 17
Award Winners Relief Society Short Story Contest
The Least of the Flock First Prize
Undeclared Dividends Vesta P. Crawford 19
M. Lynn Bennion 23

FICTION
The Least of the Flock
Tomorrow's Cup Chapter X Conclusion Anna Prince Redd 33

GENERAL FEATURES
Woman's World Ramona W. Cannon 29
Editorial: Honour Thy Father and Thy Mother Marianne C. Sharp 30
Notes to the Field: Suggestive Program for Sunday Evening, March 5, 1944
General Board Bulletins to Be Studied
Bound Volumes
Notes from the Field: Interesting Local Relief Societies
General Secretary Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman 38

LESSONS FOR APRIL
Messages to the Home Loyalty
Home Topics Care of Floors and Furnishings
Social Science What "America" Means to Me
Stories from the Book of Mormon Conversion of Lamanites by Ammon and His Brethren 61
Theology Submission to Secular Authority
Literature Bible Oratory 58

POETRY
Given Olive C. Wehr 12
In Times of War Christie Lund Coles 14
Night Shadows Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 16
Benison Linda S. Fletcher 17
The Chimes Pliny A. Wiley 22
To A New House Etta A. Christensen 27
Courtney E. Cottam 32

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28

Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 38, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION 58,000

Message ON the threshold of a New Year, Relief Society women, with the rest of mankind, face a troubled world?a world of turmoil, sorrow, and anxiety. War with all its attendant evils, horrors, and sacrifices is still raging; the innocent as well as the guilty are participating in it.
Sorrow and death have entered many homes, and the end is not yet. Not only are we beset with the many serious and overwhelming problems facing us today, but we are apprehensive of what the future may bring.
After the war is over the problems that inevitably follow in its wake, such as debt, taxes, depression, and unemployment with its attendant lowered standard of living, will have to be met.
These trying conditions which are bound to come will probably require all the mental, physical, and emotional reserve power we possess. The sad and tragic conditions which surround us today and which will confront us tomorrow, are no doubt, due in the main, to the fact that the peoples of the world have failed to live up to the teachings, example, and ideals of the Prince of Peace; in other words, they have failed to keep the commandments of the Lord. A great help in trying to make adjustments at a time of crisis is to face the problem squarely, whatever it is, and to do this with calmness and as much self-control as possible, rather than to try to evade or escape from it by assuming unsound attitudes.
Once recognized and considered from all angles, the most trying situation becomes easier to bear. Calmness, self-control, and poise?gifts to some?are a great asset; and these qualities can be cultivated and acquired where there is enough determination. In times of strain and stress it is important that we cling tenaciously to our ideals and standards, never forgetting those principles and old-fashioned virtues which do not.
Change even in a changing world. We shall not falter if we hold fast to those values in the spiritual realm which always help to fortify human beings in times of distress; and if we put our trust in our Heavenly Father; and have faith in His word.
Faith in God can bring hope to the most troubled soul.
People now everywhere are praying for peace?for permanent peace; but there can be no lasting peace until we live for it and until it is built on the foundation laid down by the Master Himself. Let us, as Relief Society women, strive to keep the commandments of the Lord, and to show, by our lives, that we are doing this. Let us never cease to pray that we may be a help in establishing the kingdom of God here on earth. We send affectionate greetings to the members of the beloved organization. Our prayer is that God will bless us every one according to her needs. The General Board of Relief Society. ENTRANCE TO ANTONIA HEROD'S TEMPLE, DESTROYED A. D. 70 A. Royal Tyropoeon Bridge BB Terrace or Chel ? some authorities say outside of this was a low enclosure called the Soreg CC South Side Gates, the second on the right hand being the ancient Water Gate DD North Side Gates EE Money Chests FF Courts and Chambers G Nicanor Gate H Fifteen Steps of the Levites I Beth - Moked J Steps of the Priests K Rings for tying sacrificial animals 1- L Shushan Gate (traditional) with arched roadway to Mount of Olives M To Bezetha N Marble Tables for cutting up sacrificial animals O Ophel Gate A Royal Tyropoeon Bridge BB Terrace or Chel?some authorities say outside of this was a low enclosure called the Sore CC. South Side Gates, the second on the right hand being the ancient Water Gate DD North Side Gates EE Money Chests FF Courts and Chambers G Nicanor Gate H Fifteen Steps of the Levites ? I Beth - Moked  J Steps of the Priests K Rings for tying sacrificial animals --L_ Shushan Gate (traditional) with arched roadway to Mount of Olives M To Bezetha N Marble Tables for cutting up sacrificial animals O Ophel Gate COURT OF THE GENTILES Pee VOL. 31, NO. 1 JANUARY 194
