[Vol31 | January 1944 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature Bible Oratory]
The  Bible  as  Literature 
JCi\ 
Lesson  Z—Bible  Oratory 
Tuesday,  April  18,  1944 
DEST  examples  of  Bible  oratory  longing  for  the  ''flesh  pots  of  Egypt;" 
are  to  be  found  in  Deuteronomy,  a  return  to  the  worship  of  idols  must 
This  Master  Book  is  made  up,  in-  be  corrected,  and  are  sternly  rebuked, 
deed,  of  a  series  of  orations  developed  Spies,  sent  to  the  Land  of  Promise, 
around  a  central  theme— the  Fare-  return  with  discouraging  reports.  It 
well  of  Moses.  It  is  a  volume  unique  is  filled,  they  say,  with  walled  cities, 
—blending  history,  oratory,  and  dra-  Ten  of  the  twelve  spies  protest 
ma  with  impressive  effect  in  a  por-  against  marching  against  them.  Only 
trayal  of  a  great  leader  giving  mes-  Joshua  and  Caleb  have  courage  to 
sages  of  truth  and  light  at  his  part-  try  to  take  the  Promised  Land.  The 
ing  from  a  people  he  has  freed  from  majority  of  the  people  side  with  the 
bondage,  guided  in  upward  develop-  ten  fearful  spies.  Then  comes  God's 
ment  for  forty  years,  and  led  to  the  decree  that  the  Israelites  shall  wan- 
edge  of  a  Land  of  Promise.  der  in  the  vdlderness  for  forty  years. 
Stirring  romance  weaves  into  the  Why?  Simply  to  let  the  coward 
life  of  Moses.  Born  in  tragic  times,  blood  die  out  while  a  new  genera- 
he  is  hidden  as  a  babe  to  escape  tion,  born  free,  can  be  trained  to 
death,  is  reared  as  an  adopted  son  of  take  on  the  task  of  winning  their 
a  princess,  with  his  own  mother,  as  heritage.  Here  is  constructive  work 
nurse,  to  train  his  heart.  Outlawed  for  Moses  and  his  fellow  leaders, 
because  he  strikes  down  a  cruel  Under  God's  inspiration  and  guid- 
Egyptian  taskmaster,  he  flees  into  ance,  a  theocratic  government  is  set 
•  the  wilds.  There,  responding  to  the  up  for  this  nomadic  people  wander- 
voice  of  God,  he  sets  himself  to  his  ing  over  the  desert.  They  are  taught 
master  work— the  deliverance  and  the  laws  of  the  Lord— drilled  in  re- 
development of  his  oppressed  peo-  ligious  practices.  Miracles,  such  as 
pie.  As  an  instrument  in  the  hand  a  cloud  to  lead  by  day  and  a  pillar 
of  God,  he  brings  the  Israelites  out  of  fire  by  night,  help  to  keep  them 
from  bondage.  A  pursuing  army  is  closer  to  God,  more  amenable  to  His 
drowned  in  the  depths  of  the  Red  leadership.  Moses  rises  to  mastery 
Sea.  of  the  situation.    Then,  like  many 
Work  that  tests  Moses  to  the  core  another  leader,  he  inclines  to  rely 
follows.    Facing  the  rigors  of  desert  on  himself, 
life,  the  liberated  host  falters.     A  A  crisis  comes.    The  people  are

54 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1944 
without  water.  They  cry  to  Moses, 
and  he  rises  to  their  help  as  years 
before  he  had  done  at  the  Red  Sea. 
This  time  he  smites  a  rock  in  the 
desert,  and  water  gushes  forth  to 
quench  the  thirst  of  the  fainting 
horde.  But  Moses  fails  to  praise  God 
for  the  miracle  and  the  deliverance, 
as  he  had  done  when  the  waters  were 
parted.  And  for  this  failure,  the 
great  leader  is  sternly  rebuked  and 
punished.  God's  decree  is  that  he 
shall  not  enter  the  Promised  Land. 
Thus  it  happens  that  when  Israel, 
organized  as  a  militant  nation,  was 
ready  to  make  conquest  of  the 
longed-for  realm,  Moses  was  per- 
mitted to  see  it  only  with  his  eyes, 
but  saith  the  Lord  unto  him,  'Thou 
shalt  not  go  over  thither." 
Naturally,  this  parting  of  a  revered 
leader  from  his  people  would  be 
made  an  impressive  occasion.  With- 
in Deuteronomy,  as  already  said,  we 
get  a  stirring  record  of  the  Farewell. 
History  is  recalled,  basic  laws  of 
God  reimpressed.  It  was  this  Master 
Book,  rediscovered  in  later  years  dur- 
ing the  reign  of  Josiah  (see  II 
Kings,  Chaps.  22  and  23),  that 
brought  a  vigorous  reformation  in 
the  Kingdom  of  Judah,  with  a  res- 
toration of  Mosaic  Law  in  its  primi- 
tive simplicity  and  strength. 
Deuteronomy  is  begun  (Chaps. 
1:5  to  4:41)  with  what  might  be 
called  a  historical  oration.  In  it, 
Moses  reviews  outstanding  events 
that  occurred  during  the  years  in  the 
wilderness,  impressing  their  vital  im- 
port as  he  proceeds,  and  closing  with 
these  trenchant  lines: 
Did  ever  people  hear  the  voice  of  God 
speaking  out  of  the  midst  of  the  fire,  as 
thou  hast  heard,  and  live?  Or  hath  God  as- 
sayed to  go  and  take  him  a  nation  from 
the  midst  of  another  nation,  by  tempta- 
tions, by  signs,  and  by  wonders  .  .  .  accord- 
ing to  all  that  the  Lord  your  God  did  for 
you  in  Egypt  before  your  eyes?  Unto  thee  it 
was  shewed,  that  thou  mightest  know  that 
the  Lord  he  is  God;  there  is  none  else  beside 
him.  Out  of  heaven  he  made  thee  to 
hear  his  voice,  that  he  might  instruct  thee 
.  .  .  And  because  he  loved  thy  fathers, 
therefore,  he  chose  their  seed  after  them, 
and  brought  thee  out  in  his  sight  with 
his  m.ighty  power  out  of  Egypt.  .  .  .  Thou 
shalt  keep  therefore  his  statutes  and  his 
commandments  .  .  .  that  it  may  go  well 
with  thee,  and  with  thy  children  after  thee, 
and  that  thou  mayest  prolong  thy  days  up- 
on the  earth,  which  the  Lord  thy  God 
giveth  thee,  for  ever  (Deut.  4:33  ff.). 
The  second  oration  (Deut.  5)  is 
addressed  especially  to  the  Levites— 
Keepers  of  the  Law.  In  it,  Moses  re- 
impresses  the  Ten  Commandments, 
saying: 
These  words  the  Lord  spake  unto  all 
your  assembly  in  the  mount  out  of  the 
midst  of  the  fire,  of  the  cloud,  and  of  the 
thick  darkness,  with  a  great  voice:  and  he 
added  no  more.  And  he  wrote  them  in 
two  tables  of  stone,  and  delivered  them 
unto  me.  .  .  .  And  ye  said,  Behold,  the 
Lord  our  God  hath  shewed  us  his  glory 
and  his  greatness,  and  we  have  heard  his 
voice  out  of  the  midst  of  the  fire:  we  have 
seen  this  day  that  God  doth  talk  with  man, 
and  he  liveth  (Deut.  5:22  ff.). 
Following  this,  come  lines  kept 
precious  through  the  ages  by  devout 
believers  in  the  Mosaic  Law: 
Hear,  O  Israel:  The  Lord  our  God  is 
one  Lord:  And  thou  shalt  love  the  Lord 
thy  God  with  all  thine  heart,  and  with  all 
thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  might   (Deut. 
6:4-5). 
These    watchwords,    like    thou 
SHALT  HAVE  NO  OTHER  GODS  BEFORE 
ME,  express  in  essence  the  religion 
God  gave  to  the  world  through 
Israel.  They  were,  by  divine  com- 
mand, to  be  kept  in  the  heart,  taught 
diligently  to  children,  worn  upon 
hand  or  forehead,  written  on  door-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
55 
post  or  gate.  The  import  of  all  this 
becomes  clear  as  one  remembers  that 
those  were  days  of  many  gods  and 
of  idol  worship.  Yet  the  command 
is  just  as  vital  in  these  days  of  distrac- 
tion and  temptation. 
In  connection  with  the  second 
oration,  the  Book  oi  the  Covenant, 
containing  specific  and  basic  laws,  is