[Vol31 | January 1944 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Editorial | Title: Honour Thy Sharp]

31 O-5 EDITORIAL ~o
JANUARY 1944 honour Shy Sather and Thy Mother" S "the earth rolls upon her wings," a new year approaches and another span of time is given each one on which to write a record of spiritual progression or retrogression. If one would inscribe a record which will bring him ever nearer to an eternity of joy, there are certain fundamental laws which must be obeyed. After Moses had led the children of Israel out of bondage, the Lord gave to them ten laws by which they were to order their lives.
Amid the thunderings and lightnings of Mt. Sinai, the Lord spoke: "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee" (Exodus 20:12). 'To this law another promise is attached as given in Deuteronomy 5:16 which states: "that it might go well with thee." Christ, during His ministry, upheld this law and rebuked the Jews who followed tradition to the neglect of rendering obedience to the law as announced by Moses (Matt. 19:19). He also included this law among those which the rich young man must follow if he would gain eternal life.
This vital commandment was also recognized by Paul who said, "But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel" (I Tim. 5:8). Yet in spite of these teachings, there are many who do not live this law. How often does one hear a mother say, "I took care of seven Page 30 (or five or three), but seven cannot take care of me."
This is a terrible indictment of the selfishness of children in this day. A father and a mother spend the most active years of their lives in cherishing, guarding, and providing for their children, and from this devotion they receive in return their greatest joy and satisfaction.
When these parents themselves may require loving tenderness, sympathy, help, and often financial support, it should be the joy of the children to furnish any and every assistance to them. True, this may entail long hours, months, or even years of nursing; it may require giving up many of the passing pleasures of each day; it may necessitate, even, a partial disruption of one's own family's life; in short, it may mean subordinating one's own desires to care for the needs and desires of another. But what better thing could one do to experience great satisfaction and lasting joy than to lovingly care for those to whom one owes his very existence upon this earth? Then, when one's parents have passed to the Great Beyond there will be no canker of remorse to gnaw the soul over what one might have done but neglected to do?neglected until it was forever too late. And add to the law "Honour thy father and thy mother" another law, "Do unto others as you would have others do unto you," and the great truth, "As ye sow so shall ye reap." M.C.S. Notes THE FIELD Suggestive Program for Sunday Evening, March 5, 1944 IN a letter dated April 26, 1942, the First Presidency designated the evening meeting of Fast Sundays for use by the auxiliary organizations. At a meeting of the general executives of the auxiliaries, the Fast Sunday evening meetings of November and March were assigned to Relief Society. Ward Relief Society presidents may therefore consult their respective bishops and ask for permission to arrange for a Relief Society meeting on the evening of March 5, 1944.
This is a very favorable Sunday on which to present a Relief Society program, coming as it does on the first Sunday of Relief Society anniversary month. The General Board submits the following suggestive program for use on this evening. The objective of this program is to show that the Relief Society, in varied ways, has met the fundamental needs of the individual. Program Theme: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matt. 25:40). I. Musical Selection: choruses are available). II. Invocation. III. Relief Society Singing Mothers (where such Scriptural Reading: I Corinthians 13, with Music Accompaniment (5 minutes )?Relief Society Officer or Member. IV. Talks: Subject?"Compassionate Service of Relief Society." A.
Phases of subject to be treated: 1. "Yesterday's Benevolence." (10 minutes)?Relief Society Officer or Member. 2. "Our Service Today." (7 minutes)?Relief Society Officer or Member. _V. Musical Selection: Relief Society Singing Mothers (if available).. Talks: Subject?"Conservation in the Relief Society." A.
Phases of subject to be treated: 1. "Satisfying Yesterday's Need" (5 minutes )?Relief Society Officer or Member. 2. "Meeting Today's Need" (7 minutes )?Relief Society Officer or Member. VII.
Officer or Member. VII.
Reading with Music Accompaniment (5 minutes)?Relief Society Musical Selection: "The Lord's Prayer'? By B. Cecil Gates?Relief Society Singing Mothers (if available). IX. Benediction. Page 31 32 
 ?JANUARY 1944
General Board Bulletins to Be Studied LETTERS are constantly being received by the General Board asking questions concerning matters which have been fully and adequately treated in the "Blue Bulletins" sent out by the General Board to Relief Society stake and ward presidents. A comprehensive index to General Board Bulletins for the years 1940, 1941, and 1942 was mailed on May 4, 1943 to stake and mission Relief Society presidents. Relief Society officers are urged to carefully read and study the contents of the Bulletins to make sure before writing in to the General Board that the answers to any questions which arise have not already been answered in a Bulletin. Bound Volumes THOSE desiring to have their 1943 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound, may do so through the office of the General Board. If Magazines are furnished with the order, the cost of cloth binding, including index, is $1.75, and the cost of leather binding, including index, is $3. There will be an additional charge of $1 if Magazines are furnished by this office. Those desiring to bind Magazines themselves may purchase materials through this office. A package containing enough material to bind 12 books sells for $3.50; these packages will not be broken in order to sell smaller amounts. Indexes will be furnished free of charge upon request. Address all orders to Relief Society General Board, 28