[Vol31 | January 1944 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Award Winners Relief Crawford]
m 
essage 
f\^  the  threshold  of  a  New  Year,  Rehef  Society  women,  with  the  rest  of 
mankind,  face  a  troubled  world— a  world  of  turmoil,  sorrow,  and  anxiety. 
War  with  all  its  attendant  evils,  horrors,  and  sacrifices  is  still  raging;  the  in- 
nocent as  well  as  the  guilty  are  participating  in  it.  Sorrow  and  death  have 
entered  many  homes,  and  the  end  is  not  yet.  Not  only  are  we  beset  with 
the  many  serious  and  overwhelming  problems  facing  us  today,  but  we  are  ap- 
prehensive of  what  the  future  may  bring.  After  the  war  is  over  the  problems 
that  inevitably  follow  in  its  wake,  such  as  debt,  taxes,  depression,  and  un- 
employment with  its  attendant  lowered  standard  of  living,  will  have  to  be 
met.  These  trying  conditions  which  are  bound  to  come  will  probably  re- 
quire all  the  mental,  physical,  and  emotional  reserve  power  we  possess. 
The  sad  and  tragic  conditions  which  surround  us  today  and  which  will 
confront  us  tomorrow,  are  no  doubt,  due  in  the  main,  to  the  fact  that  the 
peoples  of  the  world  have  failed  to  live  up  to  the  teachings,  example,  and 
ideals  of  the  Prince  of  Peace;  in  other  words,  they  have  failed  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord. 
A  great  help  in  trying  to  make  adjustments  at  a  time  of  crisis  is  to  face 
the  problem  squarely,  whatever  it  is,  and  to  do  this  with  calmness  and  as 
much  self-control  as  possible,  rather  than  to  try  to  evade  or  escape  from  it 
by  assuming  unsound  attitudes.  Once  recognized  and  considered  from  all 
angles,  the  most  trying  situation  becomes  easier  to  bear.  Calmness,  self- 
control,  and  poise— gifts  to  some— are  a  great  asset;  and  these  qualities  can 
be  cultivated  and  acquired  where  there  is  enough  determination. 
In  times  of  strain  and  stress  it  is  important  that  we  cling  tenaciously  to 
our  ideals  and  standards,  never  forgetting  those  principles  and  old-fashioned 
virtues  which  do  not  change  even  in  a  changing  world. 
We  shall  not  falter  if  we  hold  fast  to  those  values  in  the  spiritual  realm 
which  always  help  to  fortify  human  beings  in  times  of  distress;  and  if  we  put 
our  trust  in  our  Heavenly  Father;  and  have  faith  in  His  word.  Faith  in  God 
can  bring  hope  to  the  most  troubled  soul.  People  now  everywhere  are  pray- 
ing for  peace— for  permanent  peace;  but  there  can  be  no  lasting  peace  until 
we  live  for  it  and  until  it  is  built  on  the  foundation  laid  down  by  the  Master 
Himself. 
Let  us,  as  Relief  Society  women,  strive  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord,  and  to  show,  by  our  lives,  that  we  are  doing  this.  Let  us  never 
cease  to  pray  that  we  may  be  a  help  in  establishing  the  kingdom  of  God  here 
on  earth. 
We  send  affectionate  greetings  to  the  members  of  the  beloved  organiza- 
tion.   Our  prayer  is  that  God  will  bless  us  every  one  according  to  her  needs. 
The  General  Board  of  Relief  Society.