[Vol31 | January 1944 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Benison Third Prize Fletcher]
K/lward  V(/i ifiners 
{biiza  [fioxey  Sno\s>  filemonai  Lrnze  LPoem  Looniest 
'T^HE  Relief  Society  General  Board  etic  verse.    Prize-winning  poems  are 
is  pleased  to  announce  the  names  the  property  of  the  Relief  Society 
of  the  three   prize  winners    in  the  General  Board  and  may  not  be  used 
1943  Eliza  R.  Snow  Memorial  Prize  for  publication  by  others  except  up- 
Poem  Contest.   This  contest  was  an-  on  written  permission  from  the  Gen- 
nounced  in  the  June-July  1943  issue  eral  Board.    The  General  Board  re- 
of  the  Magazine  and  closed  Septem-  serves  the  right  to  publish  any  of  the 
ber  15,  1943.  other  poems  submitted,  paying  for 
them  at  the  time  of  publication  at 
The  first  prize  of  twenty  dollars  is  the  regular  Magazine  rate.    A  writer 
awarded   to   Christie   Lund   Coles,  ^ho  has  received  the  first  prize  for 
2648   Hartford  Avenue,   Salt  Lake  two  consecutive  years  must  wait  two 
City,  for  her  poem  "In  Times  of  years  before  she  is  again  eligible  to 
War. '  enter  the  contest. 
The  second  prize  of  fifteen  dollars         There  were  73  poems  submitted 
is  awarded  to  Beatrice  K.  Ekman,  287  in  this  year's  contest.    The  General 
Eighth  Avenue,  Salt  Lake  City,  for  Board  congratulates  the  prize  win- 
her  poem  "Night  Shadows.''  ners  and  expresses  appreciation  to  all 
entrants  for  their  interest  in  the  con- 
The  third  prize  of  ten  dollars  is  ^^^^  ^^d  the  general  excellence  of 
awarded  to  Linda  S.  Fletcher,  2020  work  submitted. 
South  York  Street,  Denver,  Colora- 
do, for  her  poem,  "Benison."  The  Board    sincerely   thanks  the 
three  judges  for  their  valuable  as- 
Tliis  poem  contest  has  been  con-  sistance  in  selecting  the  prize-win- 
ducted  annually  by  the  Relief  So-  ning  poems.  The  contribution  of 
ciety  General  Board  since  1923  in  the  General  Board's  poem  commit- 
honor  of  Eliza  R.  Snow,  second  gen-  tee  is  also  greatly  appreciated. 
eral  president  of  Relief  Society.  ^,         .        .     .  .      ^i 
^  The  prize-wmnmg  poems,  togetn- 
The  contest  is  open  to  all  Latter-  er  with  photographs  of  two  of  the 
day  Saint  women  and  is  designed  to  prize-winning  contestants,  are  pub- 
encourage  poetry  writing  and  to  in-  lished  herewith.  The  photograph  of 
crease  appreciation  for  creative  writ-  Linda  S.  Fletcher,  winner  of  third 
ing  and  the  beauty  and  value  of  po-  prize,  was  unavailable. 
Page  13

CHRISTIE  LUND  COLES 
BEATRICE  KNOWLTON  EKMAN 
[Prize  -  vi/inmng  IPoems 
ibiiza  Lrioxey  Snow  I Hemonal  [Prize  [Poem  (contest 
First  Prize 
o/n  cJimes  of  vi/ar 
Chiistie  Lund  Coles 
What  Shall  the  Poet  Sing 
What  shall  the  Poet  say  in  these  dark  days 
With  war's  fierce  shuttle  straining  at  the  loom 
Of  life  and  hope,  entangling  the  old  ways 
Our  feet  have  gone  as  in  a  well-known  room; 
What  shall  the  Poet  say,  how  can  he  sing 
With  beauty  like  a  torn  and  broken  lute, 
Where  can  he  find  tranquillity  to  bring 
Heart  to  the  muse  that  lies  disparaged,  mute? 
Page  14

PRIZE-WINNING  POEMS  15 
O  Poet  sing,  sing  as  you've  sung  before 
Of  meadow  larks  above  sun-burnished  wheat; 
Of  summer  rain,  of  stars,  of  trees  that  bore 
Fruit  after  wind  and  drouth  and  frost  and  sleet; 
For  always  man  shall  come  again  to  these— 
The  good,  the  common  ancient  verities! 
Mothers  of  Men 
What  lullabies  now  can  a  mother  make 
Who  sang  of  quiet  slumber,  peaceful  dreams— 
When  in  her  heart  she  feels  the  gnawing  ache 
Of  fear  and  pity,  thinking  of  the  screams 
Of  soldiers  dying— boys  who  yesteryear 
Were  children  such  as  these  upon  her  knee, 
Who  watches  anxiously  lest  she  shall  hear 
War's  thunder  shattering  her  tranquility? 
Mothers  of  men,  you  must  not  cease  to  sing, 
You  must  not  fail  to  tell  of  love  and  peace. 
For  boys  and  men  need  for  remembering 
These  moments  when  their  faith  first  found  release; 
And  in  the  end,  your  love  shall  conquer  wrong. 
Your  lullabies  outlive  man's  marching  song! 
What  Dreams  Remain 
What  dreams  remain  for  children,  small,  to  dream. 
Children  familiar  with  the  words  of  war 
And  hate,  with  every  dreaded  scheme 
The  darkest  minds  can  conjure  up  to  mar 
Simplicity  and  love  and  honest  trust 
In  the  future  of  the  world  and  in  mankind. 
What  is  there  they  can  hope  against  the  lust, 
The  wrong  their  innocence  must  surely  find? 
Yet,  strange  as  it  may  sound,  a  child  still  knows 
The  same,  sweet  dreams  of  childhood;  we  need  not 
Admonish  him  to  good,  for  goodness  grows 
Within  him  like  a  flower  strongly  wrought. 
And  someday  yet  a  child  shall  lead  us  on 
To  the  kingdom  that  His  world  is  built  upon.

16  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1944 
Second  Prize 
I  Light  Snaaows 
Beatrice  Knowlton  Ekman 
Night,  and  a  cricket  singing  in  the  grass, 
Under  a  moonht  cloud  a  plane  rides  high, 
Along  the  lonely  lane  faint  footfalls  pass, 
Twin  nighthawks  circle  swiftly  and  skim  by. 
Over  the  terrace  old  boughs  interlace, 
The  leaves  cast  eerie  patterns  on  your  hair, 
Watching  the  dark  moon-shadows  mask  your  face 
I  lean  a  little  nearer  to  your  chair. 
I  could  hear  the  sound  of  the  sea  all  night  when  you  had 
gone- 
Waves  pouring  endlessly,  
to  break,  to  be  withdrawn. 
Across  the  sand  and  shale  fog  moved  along  the  shore, 
The  foghorn's  warning  wail  mingled  with  ocean  roar. 
I  stared  out  into  the  night  and  the  night  stared  back 
at  me 
There  was  not  a  star  in  sight— only  fog  rolled  in  from 
the  sea. 
It  is  twilight  when  I  come  through  the  lane 
And  lonely  of  heart  turn  to  our  door; 
The  flagstone  paths  have  been  washed  with  rain 
And  fallen  leaves  litter  the  garden  floor, 
Wind  rustles  in  late  September  grasses 
And  over  the  terrace  more  leaves  spill. 
Here  where  your  step  no  longer  passes 
The  peering  shadows  lie  long  and  still.

PRIZE-WINNING  POEMS  17 
Third  Prize 
® enison 
Linda  S.  Fletcher 
O  You,  who  stunned,  awoke  to  see  a  path 
Of  light  ascending  from  the  jungle's  gloom 
And  left  your  body  in  a  leafy  tomb 
To  tread  the  shining  shaft  from  realms  of  wrath; 
Or  You,  who  shed  your  shell  in  ocean's  womb 
After  the  flaming  oil's  releasing  bath, 
To  find,  as  compensating  aftermath, 
A  place  of  rest,  woven  on  Light's  bright  loom; 
Or  yet  again,  O  mounting  Eaglet,  You, 
Who  felt  the  arrow  cleave  the  clasping  clod 
Yet  still  flew  on,  through  and  beyond  the  blue, 
While  downward  sped  the  clay  to  kindred  sod— 
You  all  have  learned  there  is  no  death  for  you. 
But  just  an  open  door  to  peace— and  God.
