[Vol31 | January 1944 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson 7—Care of Furniture and Furnishings]
Home Topics
For optional use on Work-and-Business Day

Modern Housekeeping Methods

Lesson 7—Care of Furniture and Furnishings
Tuesday, April 11, 1944

HAVE you ever stood high above a city or village on a winter evening and watched the lights gleam out here and there down the streets as each home flashed a welcome to the father, son, and daughter, homeward bound after a busy day? If you have had this experience, perhaps your mind wandered away from your own community out over the state and nation with such questions as these: How many homes are there in our United States? How are they furnished and equipped, and how are they kept? How do the people within them live?

Mankind has always felt the call of home and made sacrifices for its maintenance, but homes today differ in many respects from those of other periods of time. Modern science and invention have taken much of the work formerly done in the home into factories, and they have made many household tasks easier to perform. The social life of the family has also been affected by industrial changes and by the many new types of recreation such as are provided by the radio and motion-picture. The ease of transportation has destroyed the isolation of farm and village homes, so that today they are not so self-sufficient.

The real spirit of the home, however, remains vital despite these changes, and must be safeguarded. The problem for us today is to adjust our homes and homelife to meet changes in our conditions caused by the war. This requires management—efficient, capable household management. Great care must be exercised in all phases of homemaking and housekeeping.

Furnishings, like everything else in the home, respond to intelligent care with longer life and more lasting beauty. Daily dusting of furniture is a desirable standard to maintain. Occasionally, furniture may be very thoroughly cleaned by wiping the wood with a soft cloth using lukewarm water and any pure, neutral soap. Saturate the cloth in warm water, put a teaspoon or two of melted soap in the damp cloth, fold the cloth to make a pad, and rub it over the polished surface of the wood until it lathers and all finger prints and dirt are removed. Then dampen another cloth in tepid water and wipe the surface clean. Wipe dry with a soft, dry clean cloth, rubbing with the grain of the wood. A good furniture polish may then be applied.

To remove the foggy appearance frequently found on highly polished woods, rub with the grain of the wood, using a clean piece of cheesecloth which has been dampened with a solution made of one quart clear water and one tablespoon vinegar.

Spots, especially white water marks, can be removed with camphorated oil. A good furniture polish is made with one part turpentine to one part household crude oil. Legs, as well as top surfaces, may be rubbed with this and then rubbed down with a soft dry cloth. A really fine table top should not be treated with oil as it gradually darkens the surface and gathers dirt, but should be treated with hard wax. Any piece of furniture which is thoroughly waxed once a week and rubbed with a polishing cloth every day, will take on a fine finish which will be the envy of every one who sees it. For antiques or old pieces of furniture use a solution of two parts turpentine to one part of linseed oil, or equal parts of linseed oil, turpentine, and vinegar. Apply with a soft cloth and polish with a dry cloth.

To clean crevices in carved pieces of furniture use a cotton-wrapped orange-wood stick or a wooden skewer.

Painted furniture may be washed with a solution made by dissolving one-half cup neutral soap flakes in one quart water and stirring in one-half cup whiting when cool.

Hot, dry houses and apartments are apt to dry out woods, and frequently crack them. From forty to sixty per cent humidity in rooms is healthy for furniture. Don't place fine woods near hot radiators nor near open windows. All woods expand with moisture and therefore closely fitted furniture may stick if the atmosphere is damp. Be patient if drawers swell in damp weather. Wax or soap rubbed on the surface where friction occurs may end the trouble, but if this fails, it may be necessary to remedy the trouble by having an expert cabinet-maker plane the edges.
