[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Social ScienceOur Civic]
Its title is "The Good Citizen," and it. Begins with a question: Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? The question is answered by the description of a man "whose character" says Henry Van Dyke, "corresponds to the law of God." He that walketh uprightly, And worketh righteousness, And speaketh truth in his heart. He that backbiteth not with his tongue, Nor doeth 'evil to his neighbor, Nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor. In whose eyes a vile person is condemned; But he honoreth them that fear the Lord. He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth not, He that putteth. Not out his money to usury, Nor taketh reward against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved. The Latter-day Saints have a deep and glowing faith in the providence of God and His laws. They see that the need of the world is a knowledge of the principles of morale which are the outgrowth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. In the Epic of America, by James Truslow Adams, we are made ~ aware of the character and molding influence of the ideals of America, or as he calls it the "American Dream." He points out that in the development of the physical resources of our country, there has been a striving, which, however obscured, is still the distinctive note and the chief contribution of our nation to human progress. It is "the dream of a land in which life should be better and richer and fuller for every man, with opportunity for each, according to his ability or achievement." But the greater dream of America has 886 been to establish the power and righteousness of truth in the hearts of all people. There are moral values. And spiritual standards which as they are sought make for peace and concord. This is the unity of America for which we pray and for which we. Live. Questions and Subjects for Discussion 1. Discuss the introductory statement at the head of this lesson. Who was Aristotle? (An ancient Greek philosopher, who lived about 300 B. C.) 2. What is meant by civic liberty? '"Civic liberty is the sacred heritage of all Americans." Why do we say this? 3. Madame de Stael was a celebrated French writer. What did she mean when she said: "You Americans are the advance guard of the human race'? 4. What is meant by the statement: "Civic liberty makes man a citizen and not a subject'? 5. How would you answer the question: 'What are the main characteristics of the Government of the United States'? 6. Give all the reasons you can why our
