New Counselor Appointed by the First Presidency of Belle S. Spafford, Relief Society General Board member and editor of the Relief Society Magazine, as second counselor in the general presidency of Relief Society was announced November 18, 1942, by President Amy Brown Lyman. Sister Spafford succeeds Donna D.
Sorensen who was released from the general presidency due to increased home and family responsibilities, but who will continue to serve as a member of the General Board. Sister Sorensen has served as counselor to President Amy Brown Lyman since January 1940. Sister Spafford's special assignment in her new position will be the direction of educational activities of the Society, work previously directed by Sister Sorensen. For the time being, Sister Spafford will continue as editor of the Magazine.
Belle Smith Spafford
Vera W. Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
TO introduce to Relief Society members the newly appointed second counselor in the general presidency of Relief Society is to introduce an already familiar friend. Belle Smith Spafford has appeared personally before hundreds of Relief Society workers at general conferences of the Society and at conferences in approximately fifty stakes of the Church which she has visited during her seven years' service as a member of the General Board. To all these and to thousands more she is known through the Relief Society Magazine which she has edited, conscientiously and creditably, during the past five years. Those yet to meet or to become better acquainted with Belle Spafford await a rich experience. She is genuinely friendly and approachable, and possessed of that comfortable demeanor known as "always the same." Vitalizing her amiable disposition and giving certain direction to her course are her frankness, self-assurance, quick insight, tact, perseverance, devotion to duty, sympathetic understanding and ready helpfulness for others, willing deference to those in authority, and, above all, her comprehensive understanding of the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and her firm testimony of their divine restoration through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Belle has been a Relief Society member and officer for more than fifteen years, nearly half of this time as a member of the General Board, serving progressively as ward Relief Society counselor, stake board member, and stake counselor prior to her