[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: General Presidents of Williams]

) Note: The course, "General Presidents of Relief Society," includes eight lessons? one on each of the eight general presidents. No lesson was published in this department for the month of December, as the General Board does not require that a meeting be held on Tuesday, December 22, due to the holiday season. Relief Societies desiring to present all eight lessons of the course must necessarily combine two lessons for presentation at one meeting or present two lessons in March?one on the fourth Tuesday, March 23, and one on the fifth Tuesday, March 30. In order that lessons may be available sufficiently early for wards desiring to have an extra lesson on the fifth Tuesday in March, two lessons, "Emmeline B. Wells" and "Clarissa S. Williams," are published in this issue of the Magazine.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 887
Emmeline Blanche Woodward Wells Fifth Relief Society President Lesson 5 F{MMELINE Blanche Woodward was born at Petersham, Massachusetts, February 29, 1828. Her ancestors were Puritans, patriots ever ready to sacrifice for their convictions, and people of literary attainments. All three of these strains were strongly marked in the precocious Emmeline, who entered school at three years of age, early wrote bits of poetry and prose, and was graduated at fifteen with honors and a teacher's certificate.
While still a pupil at a "select school for young ladies," she was baptized a Latter-day Saint, at the wish of her mother.
Through ridicule her companions and teachers tried to persuade her to give up this unpopular new religion. Her soul was in conflict. She was ambitious for a higher education and loved the society of scholars.
Although lacking a sure testimony of the Gospel, she remained steadfast, renounced her ambitions, and somewhat dubiously set out for Nauvoo. The Prophet Joseph Smith was at the dock to meet the boatload of Saints. He shook hands with Emmeline. She said later, "I knew instantly then that the Gospel was true by the feeling that pervaded me from the crown of my head to the ends of my fingers and toes and every part of my body." Heretofore, in Emmeline's mind greatness had been somehow involved with scholarly achievement. Now, in the Prophet, untaught in schools, this fifteen-yearold girl recognized greatness in its highest form. "Never was there another man like him," she testified to her old age.
With this new, clear vision of truth, Emmeline was spiritually armored for the hard years ahead. In Nauvoo, and later at Winter Quarters, this young woman taught school and Sunday school; she also sang and recited at social gatherings. In 1848, as the wife of Newel K. Whitney, Emmeline came to Utah, but was soon left a widow with two small children. She taught school in a log cabin, with the books and equipment she could provide.
After two years she married General Daniel H. Wells, a leader, a man of culture, and later one of the First Presidency of the Church. In their home were books, music, a background of spirituality, and intelligent conversation. As Mrs.
Wells became more widely known, persons of national and international note called at her home, many of them her personal friends. Mrs.
Wells was a charming woman, small and delicately built, with aristocratic features and lovely eyes of forget-me-not blue. Her fragile body housed the soul of a poet, with its insight and sensitive discrimination. Nevertheless, she was a woman of spirit, outspoken and ready to defend what she believed right and just. And through the years of deprivation, drivings, long marches, pioneering struggles and, later, comfort, she felt that the women of Zion had a destiny to work out. Mrs.
Wells early espoused the cause of woman's advancement. Her public activities did not com- mence until the seventies, however, as she bore Daniel Wells three daughters and remained at home most of the time while her children were young. But in 1870, when Utah Territory was granted female suffrage, she was among the first women in the United States who cast their ballots as citizens. The Woman's Exponent was first published in 1872, with President Brigham Young's approval. He wanted the women to have a literary publication in which to express their ideas and spread information. But the women had to finance it; and so they incorporated and bought stock at $10 per share. The enterprise succeeded, and Mrs.
Wells became assistant editor in 1875, and two years later, editor and publisher. The publication kept abreast of women's activities and interests the world over, gave Relief Society news and instructions, encouraged Mormon women's efforts in all home industries, aided mothers in caring for their children and homes, and published.
Matter that was of spiritual and educational value. In a charming style Mrs.
Wells gave wise advice on numerous subjects, particularly on methods of cultivating refinement in the home. Mrs.
Wells published a volume of poems, Musings and Memories, and compiled and edited two books for the Chicago World's Fair?Songs and Flowers of the Wasatch, and Charities and Philanthropies. She was also the founder of two literary organizations, the Utah Women's Press Club and the Reapers' Club. On her eighty-fourth birthday, the Brigham Young University conferred upon her the honorary degree of Doctor of Literature.  In 1876, President Young told Mrs.
Wells that the men had failed to store a two-year supply of grain for every family as he had requested, and laid upon her the mission of storing grain, like Joseph of Egypt, against a day of famine, drouth, or crop failure. Sister Wells felt "very timid" in accepting this mission. President Young said: "Begin by writing the strongest editorial that you can possibly write upon this subject." She obeyed, asking, as President Young desired, that the women buy wheat and save wheat, and that they "build storehouses for the storing of their grain... And that they solicit donations from their husbands and brethren to assist them in carrying out this enterprise." She urged them to "be in earnest." For many years she wrote about wheat, encouraging the women in this project.
Some of the women gleaned wheat and some bought wheat with the proceeds of their Sunday eggs, which they gathered early on Saturdays and late on Sundays in order to increase the number; other women sold homemade quilts, jams, and cheese to acquire the grain.
Instructions for building granaries appeared in the Exponent.
They were to be cool, dry, and dark.
When bins and granaries were running over, new ones were built with money raised by the sisters.
Grain was lent to bishops for the poor, and to farmers as seed during times of drouth. During World War I the Relief Society had 200,000* bushels on hand, which were bought by the United States Government. LatSee A Centenary of Relief 'Society, "Grain Saving," p. 72.
LESSON DEPARTMENT er when in Salt Lake City, President Woodrow Wilson called on Mrs: Wells and expressed the gratitude of the Government for the wheat. CIRCUMSTANCES and the personality of Mrs. Wells led her to fulfill say important missions. She helped to bring Mormon women to the favorable attention of the National Government in Washington, and of American women throughout the country, and later of international groups. In 1870, by invitation, she addressed the National Woman Suffrage Convention in Washington, where she was unusually well received. At that time the Government was considering legislation that would be prejudicial to Mormon women, and Mrs. Wells presented a memorial from the Utah women to Congress and to President Hayes, personally, in the White House. In 1891, when the Relief Society became affiliated with the National Council of Women, Mrs. Wells was present. She was a delegate at many other meetings of this organization, the National Suffrage Association, and other women's congresses, and presided at several important national meetings. In 1899 she attended the International Council of Women in London and gave an address in Convocation Hall. Mrs. Wells was a friend of many great people, among them Lord. And Lady Aberdeen, Marie Corelli, Susan B. Anthony, Pundita Ramabii,- Dr. Mary Walker, and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. She conversed with five presidents of the United States, dined with Lucy Stone, and spent a day with the poet Whittier. 889
She was president of Relief Society from 1910 to 1921. During those years The Relief Society Magazine became the successor to the Woman's Exponent; lesson outlines were prepared for uniform use throughout the Society; welfare activities became more systematized; membership dues were raised to fifty cents a year, and the stakes were allowed to retain twenty-five cents to meet expenses incurred in traveling to the wards and to general conferences of Relief Society; and the Relief Society Home for Women and Girls was opened. Mrs. Wells, the Board members, and an army of Relief Society women cooperated with the Red Cross in all its work during the period of World War I. Mrs. Wells died in 1921 at the age of ninety-three. The women of Utah placed a marble bust of her in a niche in the rotunda of the Utah State Capitol, commemorating her service in the cause of woman's advancement. When young, Emmeline Woodward had no doubt wondered if accepting Mormonism would mean foregoing intellectual opportunities, personal development, and a career of usefulness to. Mankind; instead, it opened undreamed-of opportunities for development?both spiritual and mental?and for service to her own sex, "her State, her nation, "her Church. It gave her great domestic happiness, and the assurance that family ties and personal progress would continue throughout the eternities. _ References Handbook of the Relief Society, p. 121 et passim. 890 A Centenary of Relief Society, p. 12 et passim. Relief Society Magazine: April 1917, pp. 181, 200; February 1919, p. 112; August 1920, p. 435; October 1920, p. 561; February 1921, p. 113; April 1921, p. 235; June 1921, pp. 313, 355; July 1921, p. 416; December 1921, p. 708; February 1922, p. 61; May 1923, p. 242; February 1928, p. 75; April 1928, p. 199; October 1929, p. 529; August 1941, p. 511; March 1942, p. 168.. Song to Emmeline B. Wells: "Little Silver Mother," words by Kate Thomas, music by Evan Stephens, Relief. Society Magazine, June 1918, p. 361.  
Songs in Latter-day Saint Hymns with swords by Emmeline B. Wells: "Our Mountain Home So Dear," p. 225; "Sing The Sweet and Touching," p. 260; "Sing Ye of a Home Immortal," p. 68; "We Lay Thee Softly Down," p. 100. Poems by Emmeline B. Wells: Our Legacy?Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse, pp. 71-76. Pictures of Emmeline B. Wells: Handbook of the Relief Society, p. 108; A Centenary of Relief Society, p. 12 et passim; Relief Society Magazine, February 1915, p. 46; June 1921, p. 314; March 1932, p. 130; March 1938, p. 150; March 1942, p. 168. Clarissa Smith Williams Sixth Relief Society President _ Lesson 6 N 1921, when Clarissa Smith Williams became sixth general president of Relief Society, no woman in the Church was better prepared for such leadership, yet no one could have felt more keenly the responsibility of guiding fifty thousand Relief Society women. That duty seemed to her the gravest task of her life. To it she gave unceasing thought, labor, faith, prayers, and the all-embracing motherliness which was her outstanding characteristic. Clarissa was the daughter of George A. Smith, Church Historian and first counselor to President Brigham Young, and Susan West Smith, a gentle and spiritual woman. She was born April 21, 1859, in the old Historian's Office, a noted pioneer residence containing Church office quarters, located opposite President Young's home, the Lion House. Clarissa knew the leading men and women of the Church at first hand, for they came to her father's home for both religious councils and social gatherings. Clarissa attended Miss Cook's private school in the Social Hall, and later the University of Deseret. At sixteen she conducted a_ private school and later taught in both Salt Lake City and Salt Lake County public schools. At eighteen she married William N. Williams, who was leaving for a foreign mission, and she continued teaching until his return two years later. The home life of this couple was exceptionally happy. Their hearts rejoiced at the birth of each of their eleven children. Two of these died very young, and two in early girlhood; but while the parents mourned deeply for them, they had the courage to put their grief in the background and maintain a_ pleasant, cheerful atmosphere. The home was orderly, peaceful, and inviting, and when young friends came, Sister Williams, although she might be very busy, took time for a little personal visit with them.
LESSON DEPARTMENT This large family was unusually cooperative ? in work, in play, in business, and in their delightful hospitality. When Sister Williams had seven children, she was asked to be secretary of the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society. She felt that she could not comply, but her husband said, "My dear, you must do it. I will help you all I can, either by taking care of the children or by making out the reports or copying your minutes."
Although a busy man in his own right, he did help her in many ways.
Husband and wife consulted regarding his expanding furniture business. 'They had no separate interests, and doubtless their success was largely due to their combined wisdom and to the fact that both masculine and feminine points of view were applied to all their problems. Sister Williams had the unusual experience of serving in almost all of the offices of the Relief Society. She became a member when a young gitl, and at sixteen was appointed as an assistant visiting teacher. She was ward secretary for seven or eight years, ward president for about eight years, then stake secretary and later stake president. She was treasurer and a member of the General Board, first counselor to President Emmeline B. Wells, and in 1921 she herself was appointed general president of Relief Society. Joseph Smith in giving the pattern for Relief Society work assigned the sisters many and widely divergent duties. Sister Williams was mindful of all of them and tried to carry them out. The Prophet spoke of strengthening the virtues of community life. Under Sister Williams' 891 leadership, and with Sister Amy Brown Lyman's capable help, the Relief Society women worked for the enforcement of existing laws, sought better laws, and supported every project that would benefit and improve community life.
Social service study was stressed, including child welfare, poverty, disease, crime, employment problems, and economic conditions. The funds paid to the Relief Societies by the United States Government when it purchased the vast quantity of wheat stored by Relief Society women, were centralized, and the interest was designated for use in maternity and child-welfare work throughout Zion.
Vacations were arranged and good food provided for many malnourished children. Yet, in her direction of Relief Society, Sister Williams never allowed practical interests to overcome her love of spiritual truth, and her testimony of the Gospel was unwavering. N addition to Relief Society work many other responsibilities were laid upon the shoulders of this capable leader. During World War I, as chairman of the women's committee of the National Council of Defense for Utah, she aided the campaign for food production and food conservation. She was chairman of the women's work committee for Utah and participated in Liberty Loan drives. She was very active in Red Cross projects, and worked with the Utah Public Health Association, especially in the campaign against tuberculosis. At Clarissa Williams' funeral, Governor George H.
Dern of Utah referred to many of these activities and re- ANNOUNCING A NEW BOOK A NEW WITNESS For CHRIST IN AMERICA -The Book of Mormon Data concerning its "coming forth" and publication Author, FRANCIS W. KIRKHAM, Ph. D. 420
Pages ? Price $1.50 postpaid. Note: The price of this book is reduced to $1.00 to missionaries in missions and in L. D. S. Stakes, or for missionary purposes, also to men in the United States armed services. Send orders to: FRANCIS W. KIRKHAM 109
West Second South, Salt Lake City, or to Zion's Printing Co., Independence, Missouri. ATTENTION CHORISTERS "Messengers of Mercy" A Twelve Minute Cantata with Three Choruses "THE CALL" "THE MESSAGE" "THE CHALLENGE" Written for Singing Mothers in Three Parts by Minnie D. Warner and Gladys Rich Suitable for all Relief Society Programs Single copies 50 cents each Twelve or more copies 35 cents each Order From MINNIE D. WARNER 846 20th St. Ogden, Utah marked that the cooperation she had always received from those with whom she worked was a genuine proof of her ability. Mrs. Williams was also a charter member of the society, Daughters of Utah Pioneers, and belonged to a literature study group. | At several meetings of the National Council of Women, held in various states of the Union, Clarissa Williams represented the Relief Society. At that time, thirty-three women's organizations were affiliated with the Council, and its membership numbered more than ten million. At one time the national president appointed her chairman of the Council for the State of Utah. In 1914, Sister Williams was one of nine delegates from the United States to the meeting of the International Council of Women in Rome, Italy. The experience was very interesting, and at the close of the convention, she and her devoted husband toured Italy, France, Germany, Switzerland, England, and Wales. Mr. Williams was proud of his descent from Welsh nobility, and the two travelers, while in Wales, visited the old family homestead. That journey was one of the happiest experiences of their lives, and it lingered fondly in_ their memories. Eleven years Jater Mrs. Williams was appointed state chairman of the committee arranging for the quinquennial meeting of the International Council of _Women in Washington, D. C. With the other state chairmen, she was a guest of the international president at a banquet in their honor. In the Relief Society General 

 ?DECEMBER 1942 LESSON DEPARTMENT Board room in the Bishop's Building hang portraits of the eighth general presidents of the organization. On April 30, 1924, the oil painting of Clarissa Williams, draped in a large silk American flag, was unveiled by a small granddaughter. Counselor Jennie Knight commented on the useful life of President Williams, her love of truth, her affection and charity for people. She said she felt that the Lord had made Sister Williams an ideal woman. Board members praised her wisdom and inspiration in council, and Brother Williams paid his wife a beautiful tribute. Sister Williams had good business judgment, and was an executive of rare ability. She was an organizer and a cooperator. Her life was an all-round success because, in addition to the many virtues named, she possessed unflagging industry. She never shirked the heavy labor entailed in doing her Relief Society work conscientiously, nor did she slight her home for her public duties. It is no wonder that Sister Williams evoked love and loyalty from her co-workers, for she was one of the most thoughtful, sympathetic, and considerate of women. At one time while she was treasurer of the General Board, two members were assigned to conference in Arizona. Sister Williams knew that her brother would drive to the train to meet them; so she wired him to have some heated rocks in his vehicle for the sisters on their long, cold ride. Loving justice herself, Sister Williams was fair to her Board members?in making assignments, in granting speaking privileges in meetings, and 893 eeee becomes increasingly important as America's war activities multiply