[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Christ]

Toward a Lasting Victory Dr. Carlton Culmsee
DECEMBER 1942
Professor of Journalism, Brigham Young University N Christmas Eve, people of many lands will hear great pinions beating and voices crying in the darkness. But instead of "a multitude of the heavenly host," they will seem to hear black angels taunting, "On earth war, hatred toward men!" To many, this Christmas will appear like an ironical nightmare, a mocking hallucination in a fevered brain.
They will be partly right. The global war may be thought of as a sickness of society.
Mankind is enduring a desperate agony, and must have heroic remedies.
Cauterization is apparently needed in many places, and, where gangrene has set in, amputation may be required. Nevertheless, Christmas still symbolizes this fundamental truth: back of the physical cure for war must be a spiritual cure; the healing must ultimately be a healing of and by faith. We have a job to do, and for that task we must implement our hands with guns, tanks, and planes. But obviously these weapons are not the cure; they are only the scalpel in the surgeon's hand. The cure is an ideal and a plan in his mind.
That the surgeon keep himself as free as possible from error, that he draw his strength from the clearest and deepest sources ?these are imperatives. In the delirium of this illness called war, the patient sometimes sees black as white; for, as a wise man said, one of the first casualties of war is truth.
Violence and destruction and killing?normally reviled as vices and crimes?now become elevated into virtues. A corresponding change sometimes affects the conception of morale. In peacetime we.
Define morale in terms of a wholesome confidence in our powers and in those -of our organization, in terms of a loyalty and a fidelity so strong that they may lead individuals to sacrifice their lives for the welfare of the group or for some distant goal. In wartime there is a mounting tendency to conceive of morale in terms of hatred roused by calculated efforts to make people believe that their enemies are without human feelings. Conceivably, this morale of hatred Page 823 824 may be useful at stages of actual warfare. It may act as a powerful stimulant, as some poisons do when ad-.
Ministered in suitable doses. It may be a narcotic producing temporary madness, in which human feelings are deadened and reserves of strength drawn upon so deeply that the soldier becomes a powerful engine of death, unhampered by pity or prudence. The theory may be tenable that, because war is an illness, men must be thoroughly ill to be successful at it. And of course not all hatred is artificially induced.
When soldiers see comrades killed or tortured, when they see women and children starved or mutilated, they are moved to fury. It is only natural. But hatred has its deficiencies as a foundation for an enduring morale.
Although it may temporarily fire a person to devastating strength, it must burn out, often leaving one shamed and sickened. The excesses of destruction and cruelty to which it leads?excesses perhaps as inhuman as those which incited it?confirm the reaction of self-disgust and reinforce it with an emotion akin to  guilt. And fundamentally the morale of hatred is based on fallacy; if a man persuades himself that the members of another race or nation are veritable demons or soulless beasts, soon he may take the next step in his logic and believe that he himself must be a devil or a beast, and his comrades also. If we become convinced | of this, that you and I are brutes, vicious, treacherous, blood-thirsty, then the world Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light, Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help from pain.
Nothing so insecure and treacherous as the morale of hatred can serve us through a long, ? tragic conflict. (CHRISTMAS suggests the basis for an.
Enduring morale. It stands for faith in God and in the fundamental goodness of God's children, faith in the possibility of a better world, and faith in a splendid hereafter. A brotherhood of man under the (Continued on page 865)