[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Donna D. Sorensen Lyman]

Donna Durrant Sorensen
President Amy Brown Lyman
ON the opening day of a Relief Society Social Service Institute which I was conducting in the Bishop's Building back in 1934, there walked into the classroom, with a group of workers from Wells Stake, Donna D. Sorensen. It was the first time to my knowledge that I had met her, and I was impressed at once with her fine, dignified appearance and her intelligent, attractive face. As the days went on, I became increasingly interested in her as a student because of her bright and active mind, her quick grasp of subject matter, her buoyant spirit, and personal charm; and by the end of the course, I had become greatly attached to her. When Donna was appointed a member of the General Board in 1935, she seemed to sense fully the importance and scope of the work to which she had been called, and her personal responsibility with respect to it. She was not only willing to work and to serve, but was eager to do so, and in addition she was willing to further fit and prepare herself for her new assignment through special study. As a Board member she served faithfully and efficiently and is loved and appreciated by her fellow workers. Her previous experience in both ward and stake board work, together with her unusual ability, had been an excellent preparation for her in her new calling. She was an asset to any committee to which she was appointed, and her work in connection with general conferences and stake conventions was always outstanding in character.
DONNA D. SORENSEN
As a counselor in the general presidency, Sister Sorensen has been all that one could desire. She has been faithful, true, loyal, able, and more than willing to do her full share. A natural student and a constant reader, she keeps abreast of all that is going on and has been a real source of information at all times on all subjects related to our work.
Most important of all her qualifications, however, and her greatest contribution to her special calling in Relief Society, has been her love and understanding of the Gospel and her strong, unwavering testimony of its truthfulness. All her life she has been devoted to the Church, and one of her greatest joys was the privilege she had of serving the Church for two years in the mission field. Sister Sorensen has made some excellent contributions to the sewing service of the Relief Society and to the sewing division of the Church Welfare Program. She successfully planned and helped to carry out, 1940 to 1942, a unique cooperative sewing project between the Relief Society and the Church Welfare Committee, in the Salt Lake, Northern Utah, and Central Utah Regions, which resulted in the production of 7248 articles of clothing which were returned to the storehouses for distribution on bishops' orders. The cloth and materials were furnished by the Welfare Committee, and the sewing was done in the work-and-business meetings.
This pioneering project has set a pattern for further cooperative work by these agencies. She also recommended in 1941 that a sewing survey be made to learn of existing sewing facilities throughout the stakes and to determine the best methods of carrying on future sewing programs.
Information of great value was thus collected and tabulated. Sister Sorensen's most important assignment as counselor, however, was chairman of education, and in this capacity she has labored diligently, unceasingly, and very successfully. A college graduate and a successful school teacher, she was particularly qualified for this work. She has made intelligent use of her ability to select subject matter, to arrange it, and to plan lessons, and also of her special gift of imparting knowledge and stimulating effort and growth in others.
Under her direction, the educational department work in connection with Relief Society general conferences and group conventions has been both stimulating and inspiring, and her educational bulletins have been very helpful and constructive, all of which has been greatly appreciated by the class leaders of the organization. Sister Sorensen has felt for some time the need of supplementing teaching helps for Relief Society class leaders, and her last task as chairman of education was to plan and prepare, with the assistance of Anna B. Hart, a book on this subject?Leads for Class Leaders. The General Board expects to publish this book in the not-too-distant future.
While a faithful and earnest Church worker, Donna's major interest is her home and family. She is the daughter of Agnes Lewis and the late Lorenzo J. Durrant, of Provo, Utah, faithful and devoted Latter-day Saints. She has ever been a loyal daughter and is a fond wife and the devoted mother of two lovely young daughters, Shauna Lee and Sheila. In all her Relief Society work she has been faithfully supported by her husband, W. A. Sorensen, at present a member of the bishopric of Capitol Hill Ward. It is because of increasing family responsibilities that Sister Sorensen has asked to be released from her position as counselor in the general presidency of Relief Society.
This release has been given with regret and with deep appreciation for her excellent service to the organization. We are very happy, however, that Sister Sorensen is to remain a member of the General Board.
 ?DECEMBER 1942