[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Christmas is Just Parsons]
From the front door to the living room pine needles littered the floor. A cyclone seemed to have broken in the midst of the living room.
Bits of string and tissue paper were scattered about. A. Tall, broad-limbed Christmas tree stood in one corner, while Lawrence climbed a stepladder to place CHRISTMAS IS JUST ANOTHER DAY a sparkling tinsel star on the top.
Nina sank into a chair and for a moment her head felt dizzy listening to all the talking and explaining. Bob was hugging Sue, shaking hands with Lon, and gripping the fingers of a tall, strange young man who came shyly from the shadows. Sue caught his arm. "Jerry, this is my mother." The boy's eyes were clear and fine, and the hand he gave her was firm and brown. Her eyes met Sue's, and there passed between them a look such as only women know who love with every fiber. "Hello, Jerry," said Nina, and her fingers tightened. It was like having another son! Bob's voice was teasing. "But the tree, Lon, fellow. Why a tree? I thought we were all grownup." Lon's eyes were touched with embarrassment, and his voice was husky. "We got it for Mom," he said, and they all shouted with laughter. To her, he made explanation in a little aside. ""We thought you might be... A little lonely," he said, then drew her up and made her stand in front. "It's beautiful, isn't it?" he said proudly.
Nina felt-her mind whirling. She didn't quite understand.
Were these the people who just that morning had declared that Christmas was a bother? And now they were turning things upside down and inside out to prove that it wasn't. "We decided to have dinner at home," offered Sue brightly. "I saw the turkey in the refrigerator." "The gang's coming, too," cried Lonnie, smacking his lips over the turkey. Na 851 It was their father who protested: "All that work for your mother! I thought I'd take her down town and buy her a really swell meal at the best cafe." Nina's eyes were shining. "What work?" she asked, her mind busy planning.
Mattie could do the yams and the cranberries. 'They wouldn't be hard. She'd make the dressing herself, and Sue and Jerry could set the table.
There was even a cake. A date cake! Her voice was excited: "We'll have a delicious dinner.
Just wait and see."
Then she was bustling about, picking up paper and string, whisking bits of pine needle from the carpet. She felt busy and needed again, as though she had suddenly become important.
Shyly she inserted a bit of unselfishness. "You children will have to find something to do for the evening. Dad and I will want to sit by the fire like a pair of old cronies and sink our bones in rest and more rest." She wished she might ask Bob, just as a special favor, to stay at home with them. He had so little time. But days at camp are dull. He'd want to do a little rug-cutting of his own.
After all, she'd have him a little while, and that was all she asked. She'd enjoy them while she could, she told herself, and would not let her mind go past tomorrow.
Loneliness had vanished, and in its place burned a glad, sweet joy. "Christmas is just another day," she said unexpectedly, and added, as their eyes turned toward her with quick, loving glances, "but, as Lonnie would say ? 'What' another day!"
EDITORIAL 
Vol. 29 DECEMBER 1942 No, 12
Christmas in 1942 HERE is perhaps no day in all the year more eagerly awaited or more joyfully received by old and young than Christmas Day. While Christmas is calendared a red-letter "day," the spirit of Christmas takes hold of us weeks in advance of the day, and Christmas festivities extend themselves into a holiday season. The spirit of Christmas finds expression in gay colored lights, in festive shops, in busy homes, in sweet caroling, in cheerful greeting, in lavish giving. On Christmas Day, the spirit of Christ?He whose birthday we observe?animates our lives, and His second great commandment, "love thy neighbor," is not difficult to keep. It was at the Christmas season just a year ago, when hearts were attuned to "peace on earth, good will toward men," that the shocking news of Pearl Harbor came over the air, and our great Christian nation declared war on an aggressor pagan nation. Hearts became heavy, and it was with difficulty that zest was retained in our Christmas observance. True, the announcement of war made no immediate demands upon us, but we were familiar with the ways of war; we knew the sufferings and sorrows of nations already engaged in conflict, and we realized what lay ahead for us. During the past year all that was anticipated has come upon us: the young manhood of the nation has put aside its civilian clothes and gone into uniform; mothers and daughPage 852 ters have left the home and school | room and gone into munitions factories; strict curtailments have been placed upon us forcing us to change our way of life; sorrow has entered many a household because a life has been sacrificed for an ideal. And the end is not yet in view. So we approach our 1942
Christmas greatly sobered.
Many of the gay expressions characteristic of Christmases of the past seem out of harmony with the seriousness of the times. Yet the world has perhaps never needed Christmas and the Christmas spirit more than it does. Today?not the spirit that expresses itself in froth and frivolity, but the true, deep spirit of Christmas which bids us remember the Christ whose birthday we observe, and rejoice in the promise that is ours because of Him.
Life at best is short and even the most fruitful lives are laden with difficulties and disappointments, but through the priceless gift of our Father, eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord, we have comfort, hope, and promise.
Even as we remember the Master's love and sacrifice for us, there comes to mind with renewed emphasis His teaching that human life is sacred, and we realize that His commandment "love one another" must become a reality in the world.
Penetrating the noise and confusion of bursting bombs and roaring cannons, this message of the Master?the Christmas message?springing anew in the hearts of righteous men EDITORIAL and women cannot help but diminish hate and temper evil. This Christmas it is particularly important that we express our love and friendship for our fellows, but the form our expressions take must be keyed to the tone of the times.
Lavish spending for extravagant gifts is entirely out of place.
While we despise war, war is upon us. And the only way we may win peace is to win the war. Our greatest effort and every dollar that can be spared from the bare necessities of life should be devoted to that effort.
Christmas gifts this year should be simple, thoughtful expressions of love and friendship. The Christmas spirit in our homes this year, as always, will be largely determined by the mothers. Children. 853 are entitled to a bright and cheerful Christmas. The burdens that oppress us and the griefs that have overtaken us should be laid aside for a day, and a spirit of happiness should pervade our homes. Let us remember our loved ones who are not with us, but let us rejoice in their virtues, their ideals, their courage, their accomplishments, rather than to mourn over their absence.
Christmas bells have rung out for ages and will ring out through the coming ages of time the peace and good will that lift the hearts of men | and "nerve them to braver and nobler deeds in the living of their own lives and serving of their fellow men."
Grateful are we for Christmas in 1942!?B. S. S. "In Retrospect'' Concluded THE Relief Society Magazine acknowledges with appreciation the excellent contribution of President Amy Brown Lyman in preparing for publication during the Relief Society centennial year her autobiography "In Retrospect." 'The life story of Sister Lyman reveals in an interesting style the influences and experiences that have so eminently qualified her for her position as general president of Relief Society.
Interwoven throughout the story, adding interest and value to it, is a great deal of important historical information related to Relief Society, drawn from her many years of service in this Society. The following excerpt from a letter recently received by the General Board is typical of numerous expressions of appreciation received from Magazine readers throughout the Church: I should like to express my appreciation of the life story of President Amy Brown Lyman that has been running in the Magazine. I like it for two reasons: It is a good story, well told, of a good life, well lived. It acquaints us with the wide scope of her contacts and activities, to which being president of Relief Society is a fitting and crowning achievement.
