[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Work-and-BusinessCare of Equipment]

The shining light of good works makes us want to "glorify our Father which is in heaven." The inspiring life of our Savior during His thirty-three years on earth has had its effect upon untold millions of men and women in all nations and ages of the modern world. Loveliness. Of character is all around us. If we seek it, we shall find it. Our neighbors, our friends, possess many admirable traits. For example, the man is to be admired who labors ungrudgingly for the benefit of his family, or the mother who unselfishly lives for the welfare of her children, or the person who is always ready to help anyone in trouble. There are those who are truthful, just, fair, patient, and long-suffering with others. Some come through sorrow and trouble with strengthened faith and an improved attitude toward the sane and wholesome life. Others give themselves freely and unselfishly in the service of the community and the Church. This principle of seeking the praiseworthy and the lovely applies not alone to individual members of the Church, but also to the Church as a whole. The Church searches out those things which will be of benefit to the world, and which will bring happiness to all mankind. Discussion 1. Discuss the following principle of mental hygiene: To keep mentally healthy, one should think some kindly thoughts of others each day.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. What things in life are lovely to you? 3. What is the reward of the individual ve 875 who seeks the praiseworthy and the lovely; of the community which seeks the best for its citizens? 7. Vy Wy anh-ond-Qeamneans New-fashioned Thrift Lesson 5
Care of Household Equipment (For optional use on Tuesday, February 9, 1943) 'T'HE same serious thought and time spent in the selection of modern equipment should be given to the care of it.
Many things cannot now be obtained, others are fast vanishing from shops, and even parts for repair cannot now be had for some kinds of equipment. So it behooves every housewife to renew her pledge: "I will take good care of the things I have."
Because so many appliances use gas, oil, or electricity, they should be kept in good repair not only to conserve them, but to minimize danger of accidents.
Whatever the kind of equipment or whatever the fuel used to run it, years of extra service can be had by following a few suggestions: 1, Use it correctly.
Manufacturers give full instructions on the use of their own product.
Unintentional abuse may cause costly wear. 2.
Keep it clean.
Such things as food, acids, stains, and dirt help to reduce the efficiency and shorten the life of any appliance. 3.
Keep it repaired.
Careful inspection at regular intervals, and repair when needed, enable an article to do better work and extend its life many years. Refrigerators The exterior finish of refrigerators is very durable, but it can be scratched, chipped, dented, or marred by heavy or sharp utensils, acids, etc. It may be cleaned with a damp cloth.
Occasionally it will be necessary to use mild soap and warm water.
Grease or oil should be removed promptly, especially if it - touches the rubber gasket on the door or the rubber divider in the ice tray. Oil, grease, and heat destroy tubber. The inside, especially the freezing compartment and ice tray, should be washed thoroughly at frequent intervals with warm soda solution. The shelves should be removed and washed in warm soapy water, rinsed and dried thoroughly.
Metal sponges or abrasive material should never be used for cleaning. If mechanical, the refrigeratorshould be defrosted before the ice is onefourth inch thick.
Excessive frost on the freezing unit acts as insulation and retards refrigeration. A 876 stiff brush is best to use in cleaning the drain pipe of ice refrigerators and for the coils in the motor compartment of electric or gas ones. It is a waste of both power and food to operate a mechanical refrigerator at a lower temperature than is safe for the preservation of food. 'The motor of a refrigerator should be oiled according to directions of the manufacturer.
Hermetically sealed units do not require oiling or adjusting. Stoves Heating to too high temperature not only wastes fuel but burns out the mechanism of the stove regardless of its make or the kind of fuel used.
Most foods require low or medium temperatures for cooking, which saves food, fuel, and stove.
Cold water or food spilled on a hot enamel surface may cause cracking of the enamel. If food is spilled on open surface units, it should be burned off; using a stiff brush orsharp instrument will loosen or break coils. Warm, soapy water is best for cleaning, with fine scouring powder or steel wool for oven or broiler.
When gas burners become clogged or greasy, they should be removed and washed thoroughly with soap and water.
They should burn with a clean blue flame; otherwise, fuel is wasted and soot soon fills the small holes.
Coal stoves require attention to keep them free from ash and soot, which act as insulators.
Many warped lids are the result of collected ash and too high temperatures. Laundry Equipment Laundry equipment is not used as often as some other equipment, and with proper care should last a long time.
Whatever the kind, the washing  machine should be oiled as required, and kept clean; if tubs are of metal or porcelain, they should be kept dry and covered when not in use. If stored in a cold place, the washer should be moved to a warm place an hour or so before using, and the tub should be filled with hot water before the motor is started.
This gives the grease in the gear case a chance to soften, and may prevent burned-out motors and other damage.
Drain the washer immediately after washing, remove agitator, suction cups, etc., wash with cloth or soft brush, rinse, and wipe dry.
Leave the cover off the tub until all dampness has evaporated, to prevent musty odor.
Wringer rolls and frame should be wiped, and pressure on rolls released. 'This saves springs and tubber. Do not overload either washer or wringer with too many articles of clothing at one time.
This strains the mechanism and gives inefficient results. Use plenty of water, but not to excess.
Machines have a water line. If the tub is a wooden type, a small amount of clean water left in it, or a heavy wet cloth laid on the bottom will keep it from drying out to the point of leaking.
Boilers and movable tubs of galvanized type should be washed and dried, and if not attached to a frame, they should be hung up. If an ironer or hand iron is heated too hot, the "temper" of the steel is lost to some extent and the iron will not function efficiently. The bottom of an iron and the "shoe" of an ironer should be kept clean by wiping with a damp cloth when they are just a bit warm.
Occasionally a fine scouring powder or beeswax should be rubbed over them to make them smooth, especially if starch has had LESSON DEPARTMENT a tendency to stick to them. A pinch of salt put in starch will relieve this condition.
Never put an iron in water. Buttons, snaps, or hooks will scratch and make rough the ironer or iron or be broken unless turned toward the inner roll. Be careful not to drop the iron. Water Heaters Water heaters need little care if they are installed properly. A few quarts of water should be drained from the bottom of the tank periodically to prevent accumulation of sediment. If thermostat is used, it should not be set at too high a temperature. The temperature will depend upon the amount of water to be used and the size and standards of living of the family. If water is hard, the heating elements and pipes may need occasional thorough cleaning by a removal of the lime deposit. Vacuum Cleaners Vacuum cleaners are among the best labor-saving devices in the household, and will render good service if only a few things are remembered.
Sharp bits of glass, bobby pins, tacks, nails, coins, or other hard objects will damage the motor and puncture the bag.
They should be picked up before using the vacuum. The bag should be emptied every time it is used. If it becomes filled or matted with dust and lint, there is no room for the air to do its proper work, The revolving brush should be properly adjusted and kept free from threads and hair, otherwise the rubber belt will become hot, and this will make it soft.
Some vacuums have hermetically sealed motors which need no oiling; others need oiling regularly.
Brushes should 877 be replaced if tufts become worn. The bristles should extend one-eighth of an inch below the bottom of the nozzle. The attachments should be kept in the case in which they were bought or in some place where the metal will not become bent or jammed, and where the tube can lay flat; hanging the tube by the middle on a single hook wears the threads and puts a kink in it. Sewing Machines Sewing machines are gradually becoming a much needed part of household equipment.
They should be thoroughly cleaned and oiled according to direction, and bobbin casing should be kept free from lint and bits of thread. 'Too fast, uneven running of the machine is the main cause of wear. If run at moderate speed, a sewing machine will give longer and more efficient service. Electrical Appliances All electrical appliances have some kind of cord.
When not in use they should be disconnected by grasping the plug and not the cord.
Cords should be stored in such a way as to keep them dry, clean, and free from kinks or twists. If hung, they are best placed on two hooks several inches apart. The most common trouble encountered with electrical appliances is the broken, frayed cord. It. Can be easily repaired by the housewife, but she must be sure to know exactly what to do or more serious trouble or even danger may result. One should never try to fix an attached appliance or any wiring without turning off the current.
When replacing a fuse, one should be sure hands are dry and that he is 878 standing on a dry surface.
Fuses are safety devices which serve as a signal when something is wrong.
Only the best kinds should be used.
Makeshifts will not protect the wiring, the appliances, or you. Cleaning Equipment Cleaning equipment should be as clean and sanitary as other kinds of equipment. Brooms, mops, brushes, and cloths are best washed in. Warm, soapy water and rinsed in clean water.
Vinegar or ammonia (1 tb. To 1 gal. Of water) will cut dirt and make them fluffy..
Shake out dust  cloths; if oiled or treated, store them in a covered receptacle. References America's Housekeeping Book, Chapters 11, 20, 22, and 28. The following pamphlets are obtainable by writing Consumer Division, Office of Price Administration, Washington, D. C.: "What Wartime Price Control Means to You." "Rationing?Why and How." "Recipes to Match Your Sugar Ration." "The Consumer and the War (a study outline).