[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Belle S. Spafford Secretary-Treasurer]

Under the editorship of Belle S. Spafford, the Relief Society Magazine has continued to serve the purpose for which it was established and has upheld its standards of accuracy and excellence. In the interest of accuracy of content, Belle has meticulously checked facts and has edited with a view of achieving the utmost clarity and meaning while preserving the style of the writers. "An eighth of an inch makes a difference, especially if its at the end of the nose" is one of the oft-remembered maxims of her canny Scotch mother which seems to have been deeply inculcated into Belle's nature and to have influenced the precision of her editorial work. In the difficult position of editor, Belle has won and maintained the approval of both the readers of the Magazine and the writers. She has shown good judgment in the selection of prose, poetry, and fiction, recognizing and encouraging writers with ability, while meeting the particular reading interests of the mothers of the Church and maintaining the Magazine in its primary purpose as the official periodical of Relief Society. She is known and respected among local and Church writers, both the beginners and the experienced, for her discriminating judgment of their work, and for her frankness and genuine helpfulness in criticizing their work and suggesting needed revisions. New evidence of her editorial ability is presented in the recently issued A Centenary of Relief Society of which she and Marianne C.
Sharp were co-editors.
Belle was born in Salt Lake City a daughter of the late Hester Sims, and of John G. Smith, who died before her birth. She gives due credit and honor to her parents and to the wise direction of her mother.
Much credit for Belle's success as a Relief Society worker is due her genial, quiet-mannered, devoted husband, W. Earl Spafford, who, with their children?Mary, now a student at the University of Utah, and Earl S. of high school age?has made it possible for her to give a full measure of service to the Society.