[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: In RetrospectChapter XII Lyman]

In Retrospect
President Amy Brown Lyman
CHAPTER XII MY WORK AS GENERAL PRESIDENT OF RELIEF SOCIETY
WITH the reorganization of the General Board of Relief Society, January 1, 1940, came my appointment by President Heber J.
Grant to serve as general president of the Society.
Loving and appreciating the Relief Society as I have done all my life and knowing as I do of the value and importance of its work to the Church, I felt extremely humble and at the same time greatly honored when called to serve in this position.
Truly did I feel the need of help from my Heavenly Father, and with a reverent spirit and prayerful heart I sought earnestly for His help.
Because the Relief Society has always been loyally supported by the Priesthood, by both the general and the local authorities, I felt sustained and greatly comforted.
Then again, courage came to me with the appointment of a group of able, efficient, and devoted helpers?two counselors, a general secretary-treasurer, and a board of directors whose willing service and wise counsel have been of inestimable value. As the months have come and gone, I have appreciated more and more the separate virtues and abilities and the strength of the combined, united, and loyal efforts of my devoted and united associates. I am sure no president ever had better or more efficient help. In taking up our tasks, we were fully conscious of the grave responsibility involved in directing the work of this mighty organization with its unbroken record of great deeds, and its successful life which had spanned a century. We were conscious also of the high standards which had been set by those General Boards which had preceded ours and which, each in its own turn, had functioned so successfully, covering in all a period of sixty years, for sixty years it had been since that summer day, June 19, 1880, when President John Taylor organized the first General Board of Relief Society, known then as a Central Board. We did not, however, anticipate the momentous changes which were soon to take place in this our world torn with war, or of how these changes were to affect much of our work.
When we took over our new assignment, our objectives were to maintain and to strengthen where possible the regular work of the organization, to carry on effectively the cooperative work of Relief Society with the Church Welfare Plan which had been established in 1936, and to prepare for an appropriate observance of the approaching centennial of the organization (only two years away), including completion of the membership campaign which had been launched in 1938 for the purpose of enlisting 100,000 members by 1942. In all this work of preparation a spirit of reverence for the past achievements of the great organization has constantly been felt.
Three years now our Board has served.
This service has been rendered in disturbed times under difficult, trying, and exceptional circumstances.
Some of our activities have been curtailed, others have been temporarily suspended, and the need for new services is becoming more apparent.
Because general conferences with opportunity for reporting the conditions of the Society have been suspended, it therefore seems fitting that in this final chapter a report be made of the work done and labors accomplished during these different and difficult years.
Woman's Congress
An interesting event occurred in November 1940. The great Woman's Centennial Congress was held in New York City covering a period of four days. As one of five delegates chosen from the State of Utah and as a delegate from the National Council of Women, I was privileged to attend this very interesting Congress and to participate in its proceedings. I was also invited to make a brief impromptu report of the Church Welfare Plan. A few days previous to this I attended in New York City the meeting of the Board of Directors of the National Council of Women. I also held a meeting with the Relief Society executive officers of the Eastern States Mission. The object of the Congress as stated by the committee was: to honor the American women of 1840 who conceived the idea of forming an organization to work for the emancipation of women, and their associates; also their successors who for the next 100 years carried forward the plans of these early leaders and in addition inaugurated many needed reforms; to consider problems confronting the women of 1940 and to view the realities which women must meet in the world of today. The originator and chief sponsor of the Congress and its general chairman was eighty-year-old Carrie Chapman Catt, the most potent of the latter-day suffrage leaders and one of the country's greatest advocates of world peace. The meetings consisted of general sessions, panel discussions, and the following departmental meetings: Ethics and Religion, Economics and Social Welfare, Government and Politics, and Education for World Peace and the World Organization.
IN RETROSPECT
MEMBERS OF GENERAL BOARD WHO HAVE SERVED UNDER PRESIDENCY OF AMY BROWN LYMAN First row: Vivian R. McConkie, Leda T. Jensen, Beatrice F. Stevens, Rae B. Barker, Nellie O. Parker; second row: Anna S. Barlow, Achsa E. Paxman, Mary Grant Judd, Luella N. Adams, Marianne C. Sharp; third row: Anna B. Hart, Ethel B. Andrew, Gertrude R. Garff, Leona F. Wintch, Edith Smith Elliott; fourth row: Pauline T. Pingree, Alice B. Castleton, Priscilla L. Evans, Florence Jepperson Madsen, and Ann P. Nibley.
The work and achievements of women of the past one hundred years were reviewed in stories, reminiscences, plays, and pageants. In portraying the striking advancement of American women in the last century, Mrs. Catt's most graphic unit of measurement was the presentation
831
832
of a list of one hundred women who were successfully following careers in 1940 in widely divergent fields as compared to the seven fields to which they were restricted as the century of feminine advancement opened in 1840. There were, she said, only seven occupations open to women one hundred years ago in which they could earn money, and many women then, as now, were the sole support of their families. These occupations were domestic service, keeping boarders, teaching young children, needle work, weaving, typesetting, and bookbinding. The one hundred women listed by Mrs. Catt were leaders in politics, education, science, medicine, law, engineering, home economics, newspaper work, journalism, business, and many other fields. As she called the roll of honor, the chosen women of 1940 came forward, and each was presented with a copy of the book Victory written by experts on the history of woman suffrage to celebrate this centennial. In considering the problems of today and of the future, it was pointed out that since women have been relieved of so much drudgery they should study these problems and should be active in helping to solve them. They should not sit and "twiddle their thumbs" nor waste time in frivolities and cheap amusements, such as card playing. American women should work for the preservation of the home and of democracy which is based on the teachings of the Savior, and also for the strengthening of the American way of life. They should devote themselves to the abolition of war and to the creation of a society out of which
 
war cannot come, or where war is futile. They should also make use of their rights and opportunities as citizens and ever bear in mind that the suffrage women of the United States worked seventy years for the right to vote. Among the delegates to the Congress there were, in addition to many noted American leaders, a number of prominent foreign women. Among these were two guest speakers who were listened to with rapt attention?Mrs. Sung I-Chung, professor of English at the University of Peking, China, who told of the tragedies which had occurred in China since the invasion of that country; and Senora Isabel de Palencia of Spain, author of I Must Have Liberty, who formerly was the Spanish Minister to Sweden, but now a refugee in Mexico, who reviewed the effects of the late Spanish war called by its instigators a civil war, but which she characterized simply as an invasion sponsored by other nations of Europe.
Measures of Simplification
Pursuant to advice received early in 1940 from the General Authorities of the Church that the auxiliary organizations simplify their work and reduce somewhat the number of activities that take women from their homes, we evaluated the work of Relief Society and made the following changes: honorably released the large central chorus of Singing Mothers which had functioned under the auspices of the General Board for several years; shortened the Relief Society educational year from nine months to eight months and established a uniform period, October
IN RETROSPECT
through May, for weekly meetings, leaving the months of June through September for the monthly work-and-business meetings; we emphasized the standing recommendation that stake boards be limited in number so as not to deplete the wards of capable leaders; recommended that stake board meetings be limited to not more than two a month; limited annual and stake conferences of Relief Society to one-day sessions and eliminated a general session for members. Further modifications in this respect were made early in 1942, after engagement of the United States in war, in accordance with recommendations of the First Presidency that stake board meetings be held regularly but not oftener than once a month, that the general boards of all the auxiliary organizations discontinue all institutes, conventions, and stake union meetings, and that visits to stakes by General Board members and to wards by stake board members be limited to areas in particular need of help because of a special problem, the object of these changes being to reduce automotive travel and to cut to the lowest feasible limit all expenditures incident to Church activities.
Relief Society Funds
Changes made with respect to Relief Society funds during the past three years are: provision in April 1941 for ward Relief Societies to place in their general operating funds contributions received by visiting teachers during the four summer months, the collections during the remaining eight months to be placed in the charity fund; provision, effective beginning October 1942, for
833
wards to retain one-fifth of the annual membership dues to help augment the general operation fund and relieve local Societies of the necessity of raising funds by bazaars and other means; modification and extension in 1940 of the use of Relief Society charity funds with emphasis on their continued use for maternal and child health and for special Relief Society welfare projects, principally service projects; a change in time of collection of annual membership dues, relating the time to the opening of the season's educational work, for the greater convenience of local Relief Societies and members; increased in 1942 from $75 to $300 the amount of loans available to individual students entering hospitals for nurse training.
Relief Society Meetings
In 1940 it was recommended that annual ward Relief Society conferences, theretofore held at different seasons of the year, be held uniformly in the fall of the year, thus giving opportunity for the work for the coming season to be previewed. With few exceptions these annual ward Relief Society conferences were held throughout the Church uniformly for the first time on the evening of Fast Sunday, November 1, 1942, in accordance with a schedule prepared under a recent ruling by the First Presidency in making the time of this evening available to auxiliaries of the Church. New meetings recommended to be held throughout the Church are, in 1942, the monthly preparation meeting for ward Relief Society officers and class leaders and, in 1941, a preliminary officers' meeting preceding the annual ward Relief Society conference.
Publications
Publications of the Relief Society issued by the General Board during the three years under consideration include an extensive series of official bulletins (known as blue bulletins because of the color of the paper used) carrying direct to the stake, mission, and local Relief Society officers information, instructions, and suggestions; three editions of a new loose-leaf songbook, Relief Society Songs; the Articles of Faith attractively printed on large-sized cards and distributed without charge by Relief Society visiting teachers to Latter-day Saint homes throughout the Church in December 1941; welfare memoranda forms issued without charge as a guide and record to ward Relief Society presidents in their family welfare work; revised Relief Society visiting teachers' report books and new loose-leaf stake and ward record books; then, in commemoration of the Relief Society centennial, an anthology of verse by Latter-day Saint women, and an historical, pictorial, and narrative panorama of Relief Society's first hundred years. In addition, binders were made available for the Relief Society Magazine. Through the courtesy of the Presiding Bishopric, arrangements have been made by the  . This unusually lovely and practical set of curtains has been completed and is ready for future use. To compensate in part for the postponement of the central centennial celebration, the General Board sent to every English-speaking Relief Society in North America a centennial phonograph record containing messages from President Heber Grant and myself as General President of Relief Societies, the audition of which formed a part of the hundreds of local centennial celebrations. The Board also broadcast two centennial radio programs on March 17 and March 22, respectively. An important activity inaugurated in 1938 and carried to successful completion by the present General Board, was the membership-building program which aimed to increase Relief Society membership to 100,000 by 1942. This goal was not only achieved but exceeded, the final total reaching 115,000.
War Services
The year 1942 has been one not only of Church-wide rejoicing in the hundredth anniversary of Relief Society, but a year of adjustments in the Relief Society program and the acceptance of new responsibilities brought about by the engagement of the United States in war in December 1941. Prior to this time, Relief Societies in Europe, Canada, South Africa, and Australia reported extensive sewing and knitting in Relief Society meetings for soldiers, refugees, and the Red Cross, and cooperation in other war work after their countries became involved in the present war in 1939. In 1941 the
 ?DECEMBER 1942
IN RETROSPECT
Relief Societies in the United States cooperated with the Nursing Council on National Defense in taking an inventory of the trained nursing courses of the country. Since engagement of the United States in war, the General Board of Relief Society has, during the year 1942, conducted a survey of trained and practical nurses in all local units in the United States and Canada, requiring that lists of these nurses be maintained on a current basis in local units together with information as to those who are able to give additional full-time or part-time service; has recommended that Red Cross sewing and knitting be done in regular ward Relief Society meetings in addition to the regular Relief Society sewing; has cooperated with nearby hospitals in making in Relief Society work meetings hospital gowns and supplies in order to relieve conditions incident to labor shortages; has offered services of Relief Society work meetings to adjacent military hospitals and recreation rooms at military camps; has sponsored Red Cross classes and services, such as home nursing, first aid, nutrition, nurses' aids, etc.; has urged that wherever possible all Relief Society women take advantage of Red Cross home-nursing and first-aid courses because of possibility of disaster or epidemic and because nursing and hospital service for civilians is being greatly curtailed leaving civilians to depend to a greater extent on home nursing; has recommended that families in war risk areas provide themselves with first-aid kits; has recommended the establishment of larger first-aid kits in all local Relief Societies in war risk areas, and recommended a survey in
839
order to compile a list of members willing to lend articles for emergency use in case of disaster and a list of articles available for this purpose; has recommended the establishment of Relief Society chests of home-nursing supplies to be rented or loaned according to circumstances of families in cases of sickness; has authorized the purchase of war bonds with surplus Relief Society funds; has assisted in recruiting agricultural and other workers to relieve labor shortages; has assisted in a survey for identifying living quarters for women defense workers; and members of the Relief Societies have cooperated with their respective state and local committees related to the war effort, such as the American Red Cross nursing committee, civilian defense committees, state and local health organizations, state and local women's salvage committees, U. S. O. Committees, committees on war relief, and committees relating to day care for children of working mothers. In addition, The Relief Society Magazine has carried frequent announcements relating to the salvage program, the need for nurses, and articles interpreting the Government's price control and rationing program. The Magazine has also carried a series of special articles by psychologists, special workers, and other experts relating to wartime problems of both youth and adults. Two lesson courses in the 1942-43 series are related to the present situation?the social science course on democracy and the home-making course on conservation and thrift, particularly from the standpoint of present conditions. As I look back over the centennial year, I am grateful for its accomplish-
840
ments, for notwithstanding the changes, modifications and curtailments of the original plans and program there have been many compensations. I was more than delighted with the outstanding celebrations held in the wards and branches in connection with which centennial trees were planted. It was a great satisfaction to me to know that women throughout the Church, even in foreign lands, responded so heartily to the suggestion I had made that they plant hardwood trees on Church grounds in commemoration of the centennial. The successful membership campaign which exceeded our hopes and expectations brought about general rejoicing. Then there was the tie-up between the General Board and the members through the distribution to each local unit of a phonograph record bearing messages from President Heber J. Grant and from myself, and through two radio broadcasts over KSL which brought great satisfaction. When it became necessary to postpone the planned central centennial celebration, these records and broadcasts were arranged for in comparatively short time by our ingenious and untiring centennial committee, as means of greeting Relief Society members. They were unique and especially dramatic and demonstrated more than any other possible features could have done the great mechanical developments which have taken place during the life of the Relief Society and which are typical of developments in other fields during the past century. The feat of making transcribed records and of broadcasting greetings and messages and historic programs
 
thousands of miles to thousands of listeners is still mysterious to me. I wonder what the eighteen charter members who sat in that organization meeting in Nauvoo would have thought had someone told them that there would come a day when the voice of the President of the Church would be heard throughout the length and breadth of the land. As I sat before the microphone to voice a message for the master transcription for the phonograph record, early on a morning near the end of February in the great Tabernacle which was dimly lighted and empty save for the committee and President Richard Evans who was to make the announcements and Alexander Schreiner who was at the organ, I was almost overwhelmed with anxiety and timidity. The responsibility, too, seemed almost beyond my ability to assume. I also felt especially humble and deeply touched to have my message combined on a record with that of our dearly beloved and revered President Heber J. Grant. Ls As the process was about to begin, my fears and worries increased when I was warned of this and that: I must not speak too low nor too loud; I must not speak too fast nor too slow; I must keep exactly within the time limit; I must not cough nor clear my throat; and above all things ?I must not make a mistake.
There was a second effort which was thought to be satisfactory, and the tension was over. March 17 was a great day and a busy day. For the Relief Society workers. My day was typical of that of many others. I was again in the Tabernacle early in the morning, this time to witness the Relief Society IN RETROSPECT broadcast and to deliver, in connection with it, a brief message of greeting to the thousands of Relief Society women who were listening in. It was a wonderful privilege to speak to them in this way through means which were undreamed of one hundred years ago at the time of the organization, and even at the time of the Relief Society Jubilee in 1892.
Upon our return to the Relief Society offices, telegrams began to arrive from various parts of the country indicating that the broadcast had been clearly heard, and all during the day messages and flowers came from appreciative friends and members. We were greatly surprised to find on our large table a huge three-tier birthday cake beautifully decorated and surmounted by a model tower of the centennial campanile surrounded by one hundred candles?a gift from the Presiding Bishopric who had listened to our broadcast from our Board room. A centennial gift which I greatly appreciated was a transcribed record sent all the way from the Relief Society in New Orleans containing a message of love and greeting. By this time our rooms. Had taken on a very festive appearance, which, with the gorgeous cake,.
Called for a reception to take place immediately after the planting of the General Board's centennial tree on the Tabernacle grounds, scheduled to take place at 11:00 o'clock. The beautiful English elm which was set in the terrace to the west of the Temple was properly designated by one of our metal markers.. The reception was hurriedly arranged for and invitations were extended to the General Authorities of the Church, present and former General 841
Board members, and members of other auxiliary General Boards. The presidencies of the Y. W. M. I. A. And Primary Association brought with them to the reception a lovely copper bowl containing one hundred silver dollars, a gift from these Boards to the campanile fund.
After the reception, I attended, as did many others, an afternoon meeting in my own ward and an evening meeting in an adjoining ward, at both of which I heard the phonograph record played. As I sat in these meetings I was conscious of the fact that nearly two thousand similar meetings were being held in various localities of the Church. On the following Sunday evening there was another broadcast over' KSL in which I took part. One of the lovely courtesies extended to the Relief Society was a special broadcast presented by KSL on 'Tuesday evening, March 17, in tribute to the Relief Society. N closing this series of autobiographical articles, I desire to express my profound gratitude for the many blessings and opportunities which have been mine. I am grateful that I was born in this wonderful period of history, the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times, when the Gospel was restored to earth through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith; that I was born under the everlasting covenant with all its attendant blessings. I am grateful for the Gospel and especially for my testimony of its truthfulness.
This testimony has been my anchor and my stay, my satisfaction in times of joy and glad- 842 ness, my comfort in times of sorrow and discouragement. I am grateful for my precious parents and for the example they set their children in all ways of righteousness?for my father who as a young man of twenty-four years heard and accepted the Gospel, giving up his profession and all else that was dear to him to join with the Saints in Nauvoo where he helped to build that city, and later to cross the plains with the original pioneers of Utah to help establish this state; for my mother, a woman of faith and integrity, who in every day of her life followed and upheld the teachings of the Church and ordered her household according to its standards. I am grateful that I was reared in a Mormon community, that I had the opportunity of receiving my education in a Church school, the dear Brigham Young University, where the spirit of the Gospel permeates every activity; that I had the privilege of entering the house of the Lord to be married for time and eternity to a worthy and faithful Latter-day Saint, and for the children with which we were blessed. I am grateful for the opportunity I have had of serving my Church as a missionary and as a worker in the auxiliary organizations, particularly in the Relief Society where during most of my mature life I have worked so happily and contentedly with its thousands of members. I have visited in their homes, slept in their beds, and eaten at their tables, and have  thus learned of their beauty of character, their unselfishness, their understanding hearts, their faithfulness, and their sacrifices. I honor beyond my power of expression this great sisterhood of service. I desire to express appreciation also for three.
Special honors which have been bestowed upon me; namely, (1) my election in 1924 to Pi Gamma Mu, Social Science Honor Society of America, which has the serious purpose of advancing the cause of the scientific study of social problems; (2) the establishment by the General Board of Relief Society in 1926 of a loan and scholarship fund for Latter-day Saint women and girls, known as the Amy Brown Lyman Relief Society Loan and Scholarship Fund, the loans to be based on the school record and financial circumstances of applicants, which was administered by the General Board for sixteen years but in this centennial year (1942) transferred for administration to the Brigham Young University; (3) the conferring in 1937 by Brigham Young University of the distinguished alumnus award, which reads: "Distinguished Alumnus Award, presented as an expression of esteem for meritorious achievements, which have brought honor and distinction to alma mater and inspiration to her alumni." And now I shall end this web of - memories which is woven and interwoven with incidents and reminiscences of the past.