Mothers in Israel. THE NAUVOO BATTLE. By Mary Ann Stearns Winters. Note.  We give this month a vivid picture of conditions in Nauvoo, at the time of the Exodus, that in striking simplicity and pellucid description might well be a companion piece of Colonel Thomas L. Kane's masterpiece on the same subject. The main body of the Church had left Nauvoo in February, 1846, and for a time peace and quiet reigned in the city, with a lively hope in the hearts of those still remaining to soon follow the advance company of friends and relatives. Our star of hope was westward bound, and all thoughts were turned in that direction. The Lion of the Lord and his strong ones were in the lead, and like the needle to the pole  every faithful heart was irresistibly drawn that way. We, individually, were waiting for our house to be sold that we might have means to pursue our journey and overtake our friends who had started earlier in the season. During the summer the mob element of Illinois became impatient at the slowness of the "remnant" in vacating their homes in the beautiful and beloved city, and began persecuting, and driving those on the outskirts, the story of which has been told often, and well, in the histories and magazines of the Church. Finally after many threats and annoyances they gathered their forces to besiege the city. They were advancing and constantly giving out reports of what they were going to do, though they seemed quite undecided as to the point of attack. The brethren had fortified the places most liable for their entrance, and the night before  on the 10th of September, 1846  they had erected breastworks at the head of Mulholland Street, and about sunrise on the morning of the fatal day, Brother Anson Pratt came to our part of the town and called for all the cooked food that the sisters were in possession of  saying, the brethren had been working all night, and were tired and hungry and half famished, as many of them had not gone off duty to get their suppers. Our breakfast was just ready and after making a big pot of warm drink my mother packed up every morsel she had, and joyfully sent it to the weary workers. And it was very interesting to hear the experiences of the sisters in the way the call found them  many were like us, gave away all their cooked food to the guards, and then went cheerfully to work and soon had another breakfast prepared and eaten. Brother Pratt had 
 asked the women to bake all the bread they possibly could, to last through the crisis, so mother and sister Charlotte Higbee, our nearest neighbor, set salt rising, and baked two big brick ovens full. Brother Iligbee was Bishop and had a little flour on hand, or it could not have been done, for our bin contained only a few pounds. Our home was only one block from the Temple and we could hear the reports given out by the sentinel on the tower, to the guards on the grounds below. Day after day we had listened to the words of weal or woe. as they came from the sentinel's lips, and our hope and courage rose and fell accordingly, but oh for words to tell of the emotions of our hearts as the sound came forth, "The mob are advancing slowly, they are within one block of the breastworks." This was about one o'clock. The mob seemed undecided  they halted  their courage faltered, they seemed to feel the power of the determined force in front of them. Then came the word, "They have retreated a little and are partly under cover." The brave Captain Anderson, Colonels Fulmer and Picket with their spartan band were waiting, if not with open arms, at least with ready arms, to receive them. L. O. Littlefield with his company of infantry were stationed in a corofield, a little south of the blacksmith shop, where many had prepared themselves for the encounter. In Captain Littlefield's company was Oscar Winters, then a young man of 21. The last few nights before the battle, the sisters whose husbands were on guard duty, brought their little children and camped at our house, for we all seemed to feel that under the shadow of the Temple was the safest place. And it was then that my mother said, "It was the first time she could look with pleasure on the graves of her little children that were buried in the lot, near the house, for they were safe from all harm  and she knew not what would be the fate of the others." Our Prophet and Patriarch had been martyred, and what could we expect from those bloodthirsty creatures. At two o'clock the little group of watchers on the porch of our house were startled by the boom of a cannon, and the sentry on the Temple announced that the enemy had opened fire. Some one remarked, "That is the first, but who can tell of the last, and what will take place between." We had not long to wait for the second report, and they came at short intervals until I had counted 32, and then the small arms were used and they all came in such rapid succession that I could keep count no longer. The conflict was fierce, but not of very long duration, for it seems that the defenders' weapons carried disaster as well as the enemies', and the mob seemed willing to cease their hostilities and wait for another day. During that time a treaty was made, that if the "Mormons" MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 79 would all leave the city within three days, they would not molest them farther, and they might go in peace. It was also agreed that a committee, and their families, might remain to take charge of the property belonging to the banished citizens. These were Almon W. Babbitt, Joseph L. Heywood and John S. Fullmer. Not long after the firing commenced, a courier came to the Temple and brought the sad tidings that three of our brethren had lost their lives in the conflict, Captain William Anderson and his son Augustus and  . But while this message brought sorrow to every soul, it also brought relief to the hearts of the waiting sisters whose husbands and sons were at the front, to know that they still lived. But the anguish and suspense of those dreadful hours can never be told in words. And I will never forget the uoflinching faith and courage of that devoted band of women. They never thought of fleeing or turning away, but "stand still and see the salvation of the Lord." As the firing lulled and the strain relaxed, my chills returned, and as the fever rose I became somewhat delirious and, therefore, oblivious to all except my own misery. Through that long night I tossed and moaned, and longed for rest. But when morning came my fever had gone, and I was able to get up, and again realize the situation we were in. The word had gone forth that we were to leave in three days. But how were we to go, and where  my mother had three helpless children, for Brother Pratt was at the front and we were without kith or kin to look to for help or aid in any way. The promise had gone out that all would be rescued from that hostile band, so we waited patiently, though anxiously for our turn to come. Hour after hour we watched the teams carrying the families, as they wended their way to the river to be ferried over to Iowa, a place of peace and safety.. The end of the second day was drawing to a close  we were nearly alone, but the guards stationed at the Temple gave us a little sense of security, though we passed a lonely night and were truly thankful as the morning of the third day dawned upon us. About ten o'clock a message came that we would be taken to the river soon after dinner. So, after partaking of an early lunch we prepared to leave our comfortable home with a knowledge in our hearts that we were never to return to it again. The stove on the hearth  the furniture standing round  the pictures on the wall  all were given a parting look, and then my mother, taking her little children repaired to the graves of our loved ones from which we were so soon to be parted forever, till the Resurrection Morn, or till we went to meet them in their happy Home above. I know that the fervent prayers she uttered for the preservation of those precious relics have been heard, and answered 
 up to the present time. Farewell, our loved home, farewell, our cherished dead  farewell, the beautiful Nauvoo. Ere long thy waste places will be built up, and thy beauty shine with renewed thrift and splendor. After some delay our conveyance arrived. Our things that we could take with us had been packed for many days, and were soon placed in the wagon, and about four o'clock we were deposited on the bank of the Mississippi River opposite Montrose, waiting to cross over. The bank was lined with people, all in the same condition, driven from home, but oh, it was joy to be so closely associated with those faithful ones, and many were the words of cheer and comfort that passed from one to another in that trying hour. The sand in that particular place was quite deep, and would not hold the tent pins, so we piled up the trunks and boxes a little way apart and laid the tent poles across, and by spreading the tent over these, and mother making our bed underneath we were quite comfortable for the night, hoping that on the morrow we would reach a place of friends and safety. About six o'clock, while we were busy with our preparations for the night we heard a martial band playing, and all stopped to listen. Some one on higher ground reported it to be "a company of the mob marching this way." This was not expected, and as we did not know their purpose it caused another wave of anxiety to pass over the hearts of the people, but it was soon ascertained that the company were about to disband and go home, and they were just coming to take a last look at their victims and see if they were making sufficient haste in leaving the state. They were not soldiers, but dressed, some in citizens' clothes, and some in country garb, but all were volunteers banded together to drive out the "Mormons." Just as they were opposite our camp they halted, an instant, and the Captain shouted, "You're a d  d pretty looking set, ain't you?" This caused the women to be very indignant. My mother took a step forward and replied, "Gentlemen, it is your day now, but it will be ours by and by." He called back, "Shut up that, or we will have you under guard." She returned, "I do not fear you, sir," just as they were passing on. Two or three lingered behind to talk to the people, seeming touched in their hearts by what they beheld. One, a well dressed, kindly looking man, stopped near us, and calling my five-year old little sister, Olivia, to him, patted her curly head and asked her many questions. I drew near enough to hear what was said. He inquired what her name was, and her father's, and in reply to where he was now, she said he had gone to California. When asked where she was going, she said, "We are going to California, too." MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 81 The man seemed much affected  she said he was crying as he took from his pocket, a bit  twelve and a half cents, and handed it to her. She drew back, unwilling to receive it, but he said, "Yes, take it, it will pay your passage across the river anyhow." He soon arose and passed on  brushing away the tears, and no doubt, conscience-smitten at the part he had taken. We slept as best we could under the circumstances, that last flight in our dear Nauvoo. In the morning we crossed the river to Iowa, and made one camp about a mile above Montrose. Here our tent, (that my mother, with her New England forethought, had purchased early in the summer, and had it water-proofed by Brother Arthur Smith) was pitched, and made a very commodious shelter for us with room for four beds, with space for a walk in between. During the day Brothers Anson and William Pratt, with grandmother Pratt and their families, arrived and took up quarters with us in the tent, for the time being. My chills had not returned  I was feeling well again and enjoying the company of the girls, Sariah and Jane Elizabeth Pratt. The men made their camp on the outside of the tent, and the women and children were very comfortable on the inside. Our supply of provisions was getting low, but the quails came, and and Shumway, son of Sister William Pratt, went out to help capture them, and we girls took them to the river, a few feet distant, and picked and dressed them ready for use. When the good people of St. Louis heard the condition the Saints were in they sent a boat-load of provisions to relieve their wants. The people were counted, and given so many pounds each, according to the number of their family. There was flour and corn meal, from which to take your choice, sugar and coffee, rice, dried apples and bacon. My baby brother, Moroni, not quite two years old, was sick with chills, so it fell to my lot to go for our share of the supplies. The water was low, and the boat could not get above Montrose, so all had to go there for their rations, i, in company with others, went down and received ours, dealt out from the bow of the boat, and joyfully took it shall I say home with me? Yes, for it is always home where mother is. The sojourn on the bank of the river was only temporary, and all those whose wagons and teams were nearly ready, soon yoked up their teams and started westward. Of the others, some went down the river to St. Louis, others up the river to Burlington, and intermediate points, and there were some not willing to turn to the right or the left, but wanted someone to haul them a few miles out in the country where they could get work and obtain means to take them still farther on their westward march. Brother Anson Pratt had helped with the distribution of the 
 relief supply. an<l when the boat returned, he and family took passage for St. Louis. He hired two skiffs at Montrose to come up for his family, in which they soon embarked and were floating down the river amid waving of handkerchiefs, and good-bys from those on the shore. As grandmother Pratt went with them, that took seven from our company, and while we were glad to know they were going to a place of plenty, as well as peace, their going left a lonely feeling in our hearts. And thus the end of the first week found us, and the second was a sorrowful one in our little camp. Little Martha Pratt, four years old, had suffered with chills for a number of weeks and though her condition did not seem alarming, still she did not get better, and one morning her mother noticed a change  she continued to grow worse all day. and when Sister Pratt took her in her arms to prepare her for the night she could see that the end was near, and in a short time she passed peacefully away. But oh, the agony of that loving mother's heart, to lose her beautiful, blue-eyed darling, in such a place and at such a time, and she cried out, "Oh, I can never leave her in this lonely place." But mother tried to comfort her by telling her that perhaps we could take her over to Nauvoo and lay her by the side of our lovely ones and then it would not seem so terrible. So in the morning brother Pratt went over to see if it could be accomplished, and found there was nothing to hinder  the city was as still as death, and the few persons seen on the streets moved around as if at a funeral. A little red pine coffin was procured at Montrose and about one o'clock we started on our mouroful journey. Mother could not leave her sick baby, so I was sent to tell them where the graves were, and show them the place mother thought best for their little one to be buried. During the summer, mother had. in anticipation of our leaving the home, obtained stones from the Temple yard and now she had the initials cut on them, and then after making a chart of the graves from the corner of the house, Brother Silcox dug down at the head of each grave and placed the stones down almost to the coffins, then covered all over and ring up the rose trees we had planted there, and smoothed off the ground, and no stranger could tell where they were. We did not go by the ferry, but had a large skiff and landed in a secluded place on the other side where a team was waiting and we were soon conveyed to our destination. Three of the brethren accompanied Brother Pratt across the river, and with the driver, the little grave was soon ready, an'' the little pilgrim was laid to rest till the Resurrection Morn. This made six graves in all. as Brother Orson Pratt had lost an infant daughter, though she was buried on their side of the fence, but she lay In a line with ours. Requiescat in pace! An Incident of Faith. A touching incident of the faith manifested by converts to the gospel and of the answer to prayer, is related by Sister M. Eirdie Langston, a widow, in a letter to President Joseph F. Smith. This sister speaks of her husband who recently died without having heard the gospel. His passing was peaceful and he bore testimony to his family shortly before his death, that all of the of his sons' churches should names were be man-made set down in the church, and book that none preferred This sister's sons, and she has several, have been trained in the right way, for they never use whiskey, tobacco, tea, coffee, nor bad language. Although none of them are at present converted, their faithful mother hopes that day is not far distant. The circumstance related by Sister Langston is as follows: For some reason, one of her sons hid her Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants, and although she felt sure he had done it, he refused to tell anything about it. Some weeks after, the mother, while in fervent prayer, was inspired to get up from her bed and go at once to the hiding place of the books. She hastened to her sons to tell them she had found the books, but still they denied having hid them. Weeks later the son acknowledged that he had placed the books where they were, and that his mother had passed them many times without seeing them. This sister bore her testimony to her friends and a visiting minister, who tried to persuade her that she had been dreaming, but her son himself bore testimony to the fact and its miraculous accomplishment. , Our hearts go out in sympathy and love to our struggling sisters, and in our sheltered life in Zion we often wonder how they bear their trials and afflictions. May God bless Sister Langston. "Life is real, life is earnest, And the grave is not its goal; Dn<=t thou art to dust returnest. Was not spoken of the soul."  Longfellow. Washington's Vision. What the Father of His Country Saw of its Weal and Woe, More than a Century Ago. (Copied from an Old Newspaper.) The last time I ever saw Anthony Sherman was on the 4th of July, 1849, in Independence Square. He was then ninety-one and becoming very feeble; but though so old, his dimming eyes rekindled as he looked at Independence Hall, which he said he had come to gaze upon once more before he was gathered home. "What time is it?" said he, raising his trembling eyes to the clock in the steeple and endeavoring to shade the former with a trembling hand. "What time is it? I can't see so well as I used to." "Half past three." "Come, then," he continued, "let us go into the hall; I want to tell you