NOTES AND NEWS.

	COLONEL T. W. Higginson will deliver the
oration on the 28th of December at Union
Hall upon the occasion of the 250th anniver-
sary of the settlement of Cambridge. The poem
will be furnished by Oliver Wendell Holmes.
—W. J.

	LOUISA ALCOTT says that when women are
the advisers, the lords of creation don't take
the advice till they have persuaded themselves
that it is just what they had intended to do;
then they act upon it, and if it succeeds they
give the weaker vessel half the credit of it; if
it fails, they generally give her the whole.
Louisa is unmarried,— W. W.

[Column 2]
	ON Monday Nov. 29, Wendell Phillips was
sixty-nine years of age. The Woman's Jour-
nal says he spent the day at home and received
numerous calls from his friends, receiving many
floral tributes, and from his Irish admirers a
beautiful floral harp.

	"WHAT," asks a correspondent in Iowa,
"will stand out more prominently in the his-
tory of the year 1880 than the fact that
40,000,000 free people chose for themselves a
ruler?" To this the Woman's Journal would
answer, that in history the prominent fact of
this election will be, that out of forty millions
of people, one-half, viz., all the women, were
denied the right and the chance to vote at all,
and that, too, after such service in the war as
allies of the party in power, as no other allies
ever gave. These women are now the politi-
cal peers of Jeff Davis. This is the fact that
will stand out most prominent in history.—Ex.

	AT the Woman's Suffrage Convention held
at Worcester, Mass., Oct. 20, in celebration of
the thirtieth anniversary of the first Suffrage
Convention held in New England, Col. Hig-
ginson offered the following resolution:

	Resolved, That this Convention presents its:
greetings to its venerable early leader and
friend, Lucretia Mott, whose life, in its rounded
perfection as wife, mother, preacher and re-
former, is the prophecy of the future of wo-
man. The large liberty which the Society of
Friends has always given to women has been
justified in her example; have we not the right
to believe that the larger measure of freedom
to church and state we are here to claim will
be alike blessed to all American women?—Ex.

	SAYS Mr. Whittier to an Inter-Ocean re-
porter, "The society of the future must be acted
on more directly by women than that of the
past. In the bringing out of the sensibilities,
they must take a leading part. Woman Suf-
frage I regard as an inevitable thing and a good
thing. Women in public life will bring it up
more than it will bring them down. There
will be considerable floundering before society
would become completely adapted to the
change, but after it shall be fairly accomplished
and in working order, the work of society will
go on without any deterioration, and with a
gain in purity of motive and unselfishness of
law-makers and administrators. I fear its ef-
fect in large cities, where bad women will come
forward. Women are so intense that bad
women will be worse in public life than bad
men. But the difficulty is in the nature of
the city.—Ex.

	A GRAND ratification meeting was held by
the women of Oregon Nov. 21, at Salem in
Reed's Opera House. Many hundreds were
present. Also members of the Legislature who
had voted for the amendment. Music on the
violin and piano were the opening exercises,
after which stirring speeches were made by
Mrs. Duniway,and Mrs. Loughray. Mrs. Duni-
way's centennial poem was rendered by Mrs.
L. M. Lowe and Misses Olive and Julia
Chamberlain gave a song. A number of let-
ters were read and speeches were made by Ex.
Gov. Gibbs and Hon. John Minto. When the
Governor concluded his remarks upon equal
rights he "asked those to rise who favored the
amendment, and the audience rose enmasse
amid great enthusiasm." Good for Oregon.


