TOO RELIGIOUS.
	How often do we hear the  remark such a per-
son  is  too  religous.  We  immediately  ask  in
what respect?  Well, they are very tenacious up-
on some point  of doctrine and neglect others of
more importance.  Well then it  is an  inconsist-
ent kind  of  religion;  not  genuine,  if  it  was  it
would be called  the  true  religion.  Now,  who
ever heard of a man  becoming  too  rich?  Well,
you say those who do not  make a  proper use of
it would  be  better  with  less. We will admit
this  to be true;  but is  the fault  in  the  gold  or
the person who posesses it? We are called Latter-
day Saints.  Now,  when  we  measure  ourselves
by the pattern who comes up to  the mark in its
fullest sense?  Are we not in more  danger of be-
ing weighed  in  the balance and found wanting?
Ibis is  where  the  greatest  danger  lies.   Aud
again should you make the remark  in  the  pre-
sence of children or those who have not sufficient
intelligence to know that you are speaking iron-
ically;  how soon do  they feel to say, "you  shall
not find that kind of fault with me.  No I would
prefer Messrs. Moody  and Sankey's religion, be-
cause it is so easy to come to Christ and be saved."
And our Father wishes his children to be happy.
Certainly He does and  intends  they shall  be if
they keep his covenants.  Their  religion is good
as far as it goes.  It is an  excellent work, much


like that of Moses. The Apostle Paul says that
the law of Moses was a schoolmaster to bring us
to Christ. But when brought there is there no-
thing to do? Yes, before you can enter the King-
dom you must repent and be baptised. This
was what He commanded the Apostles to preach
and then teach them to observe all things what-
soever I have commanded them. And what
are they? You will find them in the 5th 6th,
and 7th,chapters of St. Mathew, Christ’s Sermon
on the Mount. This is the highest law. It
must be people of intelligence who can appreci-
ate its rules.
	People of small minds will do best in the first
school. For instance if a man steals your coat
you must give him your cloak also. Well, says
the small mind “I have made much by stealing
I will try it again and by so doing heap up
wealth.” He has not intelligence enough to be
ashamed. Accordingly is not fit for the higher
grade of education. He cannot enter the king-
dom of our Father unless he repents and forsakes
his sin. When this is done and he begins to
keep the higher law, he will have more intelli-
gence given as he studies its principles; for our
Father is the head or fountain of all intelligence:
And He gives to whom He will. Who ever kept
those laws and did not feel blessed with greater
light and joy and peace and intelligence? If we
can keep them all we shall be heirs and joint
heirs with Jesus Christ. If we keep a few we
are blessed in proportion. Then do not be afraid
of becoming too religious; rather fear that it is
not genuine and drop an idle word which will
spring up a bitter weed, or that we are like the
fruit which at present has grown to a good size,
but at the core we find a worm.
 Now for the sake of our young people let us be
wise, and teach sound doctrine both by precept
and example There are some rigid rules to
observe, such as self-denial,but we gain strength
every effort we make. Also light and intellig-
ence upon the subject we are studying to solve.
Besides dignity of character because we are bet-
ter acquainted with self, and our own strength.
So much so that we will not fail to ask help from
the fountain, of our Father in heaven who never
fails on his part when it is for our best good.
Then do not fear becoming too religious, but
rather fear that we do not come up to the pat-
tern, bince we have the name of Latter-day
Saint.
M. E. KIMBALL.
-Nov. 20th, 1880.


