BY  HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.

"I  made  a  statement  to  the  brethren  like
this:  I have three chiidren now, and  have  not
seen one of them.  This was  a great puzzle to
them until I unraveled it--one of them  I  had
not seen.
"At  Pillow  Point  we  separated,  Brigham
Young, Lyman  E. Johnson  and  Orson Pratt
and myself took a steamboat and landed at St.
Albans.  *    *  The same day we  passed into
Sheldon,  the  place  of  my nativity, and  where
I  lived  until  I  was  upwards of nine  years of
age.  We  stayed  that  night  with  one  of  my
youthful  playmates.  In the  morning Brother
Pratt  left  me, and  I  continued  there  visiting
the people and declaring to them my testimony
of the Gospel and the Book of Mormon, and
on the  Sabbath following, I, for the first  time,
had  an  appointment  to  preach, being without
a comrade, and   there  I  publicly  declared to
them, my  testimony.  On  Tuesday  following I
went to  Bakersfield, to  one  of  my aunts--my
mother's  sister.  Remained there  a  few  days,
declaring the  truth to them as  t[-]e Lord gave
me  utterance.  My  friends  belie[-]ed  my  testi-
mony, and  acknowledged  the  truth  of it, but
did not obey the ordinance.
	"I started for St. Johnsbury, and took a by-
path  across the Green  Mountains. The first
of these I ascended six miles, and then passed
through the core  of the mountain.  The rocks
on  one  side  for  about  a mile were  very high
and perpendicular;  on the  other side not quite
so high.  The two  main  ranges  of  the Green
Mountains were  each  ten  miles across, without
an inhabitant,  and  nothing  but  a  wilderness
country  densely  covered  with  timber, I had
no  company but  wild  animals  and screeching
owls.  When I arrived in St. Johnsbury I met
my brethren in council  on the 17th  of  July, in
a  barn  belonging  to  a  Mr. Snow, In  this
neighborhood  the  Snow,  Farr,  Badger  and
Bingham  families  received  the Gospel.  Here
we  had  a  good  time, and a large  concourse of
people, attended, who were addressed by Elders
P. P.  Pratt  and  Wm. E. McLellen;  several
were baptized.  From thence we separated and
in different directions.  I went alone down the
Connecticut River into New Hampshire, to the
town  of  New Lisbon;  preached four times and
baptized  one.  The  Lord  was  with me and
blessed  me with His Spirit and gave me utter-
ance.
 "From thence I went  down the  Connecticut
River, passing through  Hanover, and  came to
Plainfield,  where  I  had  connections  residing,
and  where  my  mother  was  born  and brought
up.  Stayed  there  a  few  days  and visited my
relatives,  teaching  the  Gospel  from  house  to
house.   I  found  considerable  opposition, even
among  my  own  kindred.    From  thence   I
passed  through  Claremont,  a  fine, flourishing
town  on the Merrimack River.     *        *        *
I also passed  through  the  towns  of  Nashua
and  Lowel.  Having  traveled  much  on  foot,
my feet  were  exceedingly sore, and  I was un-
der the  necessity of taking stage for Bradford;
where I  met  in  Conference  with eight of the
Twelve Apostles on  the  7th  of  August.  The
Lord  was  merciful  with  us, and  some  were
added to the Church.
 "From thence I went to Boston, in company
with Elders T. B. Marsh and B. Young.  *   *
Two or three public  meetings were held by us,
several  were  believing  and  some baptized.-
Each of us received a snit  of  clothes from Sis-
ters  Fanny Brewer, Polly  Voce  and other sis-
ters in Boston.
 "From  thence  we  returned  through  Brad-
ford  and  came  to  Dover,  where we  staid two
nights.  There  was  a  great  excitement  in
Dover to see the Mormon Apostles.  Brother
Jeremiah  Wiley obtained  permission  to  show
us  through  one  of  the  large  factories in that
town;  we  were  shown  through  every  depart-
ment, from where the bales  of raw cotton were
taken in, to the place where the bales of prints
were  taken  out  of  the  factory;  and  such was
the  desire  to  see  us, that  as  we  entered  each
department  all  the  men and'women stopped,
work to gaze at us.
 "In company with  B.  Young, D. W. Patten
and T. B. Marsh, I went to Saco,  Maine.  Here
we  met  in  Conference  and  instructed the
brethren. as  the Lord gave  us utterance;  some
were  baptized,  and  many  others  were  believ-
ing.  We preached in several towns, and there
seemed to be an effectual door open.
	“From Saco  we  proceeded  to Farmington;
Maine, where  we  held  our  last Conference for
the year 1835.  We had  a  good  time, for  the
Lord  was  with  us, as  He  had  been in all our
councils.  We had now completed  our mission
and the object for which we were sent, viz., the
laying  before the  different  branches  of  the
Church the subjects  mentioned in the Book of
Covenants, Sec. 98, par. 10.
	“According to  this  revelation,  there were
wisemen appointed  in  all  these  Conferences
that we  held;  each  Conference  appointing  its
own. We also laid before them the importance
of this  thing,  and  of  building  the  House of
the Lord  in  Kirtland, and  of  publishing  the
word  of  God to the  nations  of the  earth, and
we feel as though  our skirts were clear of thei[-]
blood, for we had done as the Lord commanded.
There were but a few instances of the command-
ment  having  been  observed by those to whom
it was  given, and the non-compliance of it was
a  principal  cause  of the  Saints  being  driven
from  Jackson  County, Missouri, as  had  been
foretold  of  the  Lord by His prophet.


"We then met in council and agreed to re-
turn to Kirtland. We appointed the day and
hour when we should meet upon the steamboat
wharf at Buffalo. Here we were a thousand
miles from Kirtland, and pretty much without
money. During this mission the Lord had
made Himself manifest in healing the sick,
casting out devils, &c., and manifested his
miraculous power under our administration.
	"August 31. This, morning we started for
home.
	"Sept. 3. I arrived at the house of Brother
J. H. Hale, in Dover, and stayed one day.
Elder P. P. Pratt preached. I left my brethren
at this place, and taking stage arrived same
day at Concord, N. H. I understood an Abo-
litionist named Davis was going to deliver a
lecture at the Court House. I went with the
other stage passengers to hear his principles.
After waiting some time for the gentleman,
instead of seeing his person, as we anticipated,
we beheld an uproar among the people, and
our ears were saluted with the howls of three
or four hundred demons in human shape, who
were in search of the Abolitionist; and not
finding him in the State House, nor streets,
they commenced demolishing a building and
searching others. After a little while the
peace officers prevailed on them to desist.
	"They then prepared an effigy, which they
carried through the streets on a rail for some
time; then forming an assembly before the
State House, had an oration delivered on the
subject and burned the effigy, while the men of
the city dared not to open their mouths, or say
aught to them. They then went to a place
where they had three pieces of cannon, which
they continued firing until daylight. This
was a night of peculiar feeling; reflecting up-
on the night when my Brethren were driven
from their homes in Jackson County, Missouri,
by a similar mob; and also considering that
the time might come when I might fall into
the hands of a like band of ruffians. My cry
to the Lord was, save the man from the hands
of these foul monsters. There was such an
uproar in the city next morning that it took
five men to hold the horses while the passen-
gers got into the stage. This man was one of
the first lecturers on Abolitionism in that
country, which was then very unpopular.
	"Sept. 6, I left Concord, came by stage to
Lebanon, and walked to Plainfield, where I
tarried two days with my cousin, Charles
Spaulding, (at the house where my mother
was born and reared) from whom I received a
legacy of seven dollars, bequeathed by my
aunt, Speedy Spaulding, who had died a short
time before; she had left a similar sum to each
of my mother’s children. By this means I
was enabled to pursue my journey."
	Before returning to Kirtland, my father
spent a few days visiting his friends in Men-
don, and two sisters, one living in Canandai-
gua, and another in Byron, State of New
York; then took stage for Buffalo, riding all
night, where, he says, "I arrived just one hour
previous to the time appointed to meet my
brethren; I found all of them waiting my ar-
rival. We went on board the Steamer United
States, and proceeded as far as Dunkirk, where
she struck a rock and sprung a le[-]k; she made
her way for Erie, where she arrived with diffi-
culty, but we were under the necessity of run-
ning upon a sand bar to save the boat from
sinking. There we tarried on the boat twenty-
four hours, when another boat came along and
wo moved on to it, and in a few hours arrived
at Fairport. We hired two wagons, and ar-
rived at home on the 27th of September.
	"We found our families, friends and brethren
all enjoying health and prosperity, and we were
cordially received.
			To be Continued.


