HOLIDAY PICTURES.

	They hang around the walls of every home-
stead, they are part and parcel of the orna-
mentation of the "old house at home." We
can shut our eyes and trace with artistic skill
the graceful outlines, the sweet, soft touches,
and fancy echoes the silvery music of the gentle
voices that thrilled with tremulous emotion,
when the tender greetings were exchanged and
the good-by died away in the distance. Mem-
ory paints one sublime and glorious picture
which haunts me constantly at the holiday
season.
	An old house brown with age on which the
storms of half a century have beat relentlessly,
surrounded with trees and shrubbery now al-
most leafless,and wide old-fashioned doors that
open into broad and spacious rooms, where all
is light and warm and cheerful. Blazing fire[-]
on the hearth of the shapeless pine-knots that
glow and reflect all sorts of curious shadows on
the walls and polished furniture; some middle-
aged people are standing there; I see it is the
father and mother, with some other relatives,
and one very old gentleman is telling a tale,

[Column 2]
the others are eagerly listening; it is of a battle
in which he fought. Oh, I hear him say "I
wore a handsome uniform, for I was Major you
know." And now here comes a troop of children;
they all rush up to kiss grandpa, and he is
nearly buried in the evergreens and hemlock
boughs with which they are loaded, and al-
though the long room seemed decorated before
with scarlet berries and evergreens, yet the
girls and boys go over it again, festooning more
and more, until it seems indeed a woodland
scene. One sleigh after another drives up to the
door, the merry bells jingling and tinkling in
the sharp frosty air, warm greetings,hearty wel-
comes are interchanged, and happiness beams
upon every face. Sadness and gloom are
banished, all is cheerful and bright, and the
children's glad voices at play echo through
and through, from room to room, and from
garret to cellar. Can any one ever forget a
picture like this, where all was love and gentle-
ness, the mother like a ministering angel, over
all, both old and young, presiding in her home
with the dignity and grace of a queen. I see
her now as she was then, tall and majestic in
figure; her dress is heavy grey pongee,she has on
a snowy white apron, and a small magnificent
crape shawl covers her beautiful shoulders; on
her neck she wears a string of large,gold beads;
her brown auburn hair is abundant, wavy and
glossy, there is no tinge of gray; it is coiled up
and fastened at the back with a very high tor-
toise-shell comb. In our day she would be
designated at once, from her outward appear-
ance, as being a strong-minded woman. How
proud she is of her ten boys and girls; and
indeed, one might think she has reason to be,
for they are all bright and intelligent. She
talks to them, hear what she says: "I wonder
will we all meet again at the old home; how
good Our Heavenly Father is!" but we will not
listen longer for I see a tear in her eye and she
never likes us to see her weeping.
	I need not tell you what the New England
dinner was, nor of the wonderful queer-
patterned old, old china, with which the table
was adorned, or the hearty relish with which
the feast was partaken, and the merry jokes
that flew from lip to lip; but in the evening,
when all sat round the blazing, glowing pine-
knot fire, and each one told a tale or sang a
song, a sort of presentiment came over the
mother, and though she tried hard to suppress
it, the smile faded from out her dark blue eyes
and the big tear drops one by one fell on her
tired hands. She would not give expression
to her thoughts, lest a sadness should pervade
all assembled there, but the influence was felt,
and she knew then, that they would never all
meet again in one unbroken circle.
	Have you patience gentle reader to hear
more? It may be that you have a brighter holi-
day picture, in your own home, and if you
have, cherish it and enjoy it, for such a home-
life is a foretaste of heaven.
	Years have passed by, and those who sat side
by side at one hearth-stone, went one by one
out into the world, and entered into life's great
battle—yet that noble mother's teachings
lingered in their hearts, and through its devel-
opment they were self-helpful and self-denying
—but each one's life was different. Her loving
memory is still deeply engraven upon their
hearts.
	The mother, in the prime of her life, worn
out with trial and hardship, brought about
through persecution for her religious faith,
sleeps in a nameless grave on the lone prairie.
	And so you see the picture has brightness in
it, and rifts of sunshine, but darker shadings to
complete it, and make it true to life.
