HOME AFFAIRS.

	MARY Goff is authorized to act as agent for
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in Almy, Wyoming.

	PEN Sketch of an Illustrious Woman, which
has been omitted in the two last numbers, will
be continued in our next.

	SISTERS Presendia L. Kimball and Elizabeth
Howard attended the Sisters' Stake Conference
held at Grantsville on the 11th and 12th inst.

	WE have received from Sister S. M. Kimball,
Secretary central board R. S., an interesting ac-
count of Relief Society work in England, which
we shall publish in 1st of January number.
Also a report of Beaver Stake Conference.

	WE have been favored with two or three pleas-
ant calls from Dr. Albert J. Leffingwell, of Brook-
lyn, N. Y., who is here to study the "Mormon"
question, or people, for journalistic purposes. He
seems honest and free from prejudice, and we
trust he will at least speak truthfully in writing
anything concerning Utah and her people.

	ON Friday, NOV. 7, a number of ladies and
gentlemen, friends of Dr. Romania Pratt, met
at her residence in the 12th Ward to surprise her
eldest son, Parley P. Pratt, Jun., on the twenty-
first anniversary of his birth. The evening was
very pleasantly spent in social intercourse, mu-
sic, and congratulatory speeches from President
A. M. Cannon, J. P. Freeze, Dr. Ellen B. Fer-
guson and other guests.

	THE Annual Conference of the Relief Socie-
ties of Salt Lake Stake will be held on the 17th
of December in the Council House, instead of
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms as pub-
lished heretofore, and the Conference of the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations on the
18th of December at the same place. The room
will be comfortably warmed, and although the
weather is cold, it is hoped there will be a good
representation from all the several branches of
each of these organizations. Reports should be
sent in as early as possible, so that each Secre-
tary may prepare herself, that there may be no
hindrance, as there is always a desire to hear in-
struction from those who preside over these
societies. A very cordial invitation is ex-
tended to the brethren to attend, and especially
Bishops, who are of course interested in Relief
Society work.

	OUR readers will be pleased to hear of the visit
of Sisters Eliza R. and Zina D. in Southern
Utah. In 1st December number we gave a few
items of their journey, and told you of their ar-
rival in St. George on the 19th of November.
From a letter written by "Aunt Zina," dated
Nov. 25 and 26, we have the proceedings of a week
in that city of the Temple. Monday, 22d, spent in
preparing records, etc., called on Sister Artemissa
Snow, who, though in feeble health, is the same
genial, pleasant, patient Saint as in former days;
and also called on Susa Gates, who has a beautiful
baby girl two weeks old. 23d. The sisters, ac-
companied by Sisters Minerva Snow and E. S.
Ivins, went to Washington (not D. C.), Utah,
stayed over night and organized a Primary; they
had "a very interesting time," and everywhere
they find faithful workers in the cause of salva-


tion. Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, were
each day in the Temple. Also organized a Pri-
mary in the 4th Ward, St. George, with eighty-
seven members, Mrs. Julia H. Ivins President.
Saturday,127th, went to Santa Clara, meeting at
10a.m. with the Relief Society; at 2 p.m. met
with the children, and organized a Primary As-
sociation of fifty members, and returned to Sis-
ter Minerva’s at St. George.
	Later on, from Sister Eliza R. “We went to
Pine Valley on Friday last (Dec 3.). The
morning was delightful, and the beautifully
variegated mountain scenery, like a panorama
constantly changing, was sublimely amusing as
we passed on over rugged rocks and through
canon and dell, with ever and anon a healthy
jolt, all of which were accredited for my especial
benefit,” The sisters arrived at their destina-
tion just in time to escape a snow storm, the
wind blowing fiercely, while they “were en-
sconced before a blazing fire.” The next day
they met with the Relief Society in the fore-
noon, and organized the children in the after-
noon, and had a general meeting in the evening.
“Next day went to Pinto; held meetings at half
past two and six p. m., and organized the chil-
dren next morning. Then went to Hebron, 
held.meeting at six. Next morning organized
the children, and drove to Hamblin That eve-
ning assisted the brethren to organize a Relief
Society. The next day went back to St. George."
	By these few items from letters, it will be
seen that these good sisters are helping to pro-
mote the interests of Zion in Southern Utah—
sowing good seed, that will bear rich fruit in
years to come. They have no leisure there more
than here, every moment, save what is needful
for sleep, is employed in some noble work to
benefit and bless: May their precious lives be
preserved, and their days of usefulness pro-
longed, and the record of their good deeds live
forever.

	By cordial invitation of Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards, we attended the Stake Conference of the 
Relief Societies of Weber Co., held on Thurs-
day, Dec. 9, in the Ogden Tabernacle. The re-
ports, written and verbal, were excellent, and
the spirit of the meeting encouraging. Prest.
Peery and Coun. Herrick were present in the
forenoon, and the former addressed the sisters
for a short time. The presence of the Bishops
and brethren from the wards and settlements
must be a great support and strength to Sister
Richards. On Friday, the 10th, the Conference
of Y. L. M. I A. was held at the same place,
and on Saturday, 11 th, the Primary Associa-
tions held their Stake .Conference.


