A STRANGER'S SENTIMENTS.

	Madam, I am not one of your brethren but
when I tell you I am interested in all the efforts
made by any church or people, to help such as
want help, that I do not discriminate against
Mormons any more than Catholics, or any other
church or people,I think you will not refuse space
in your columns for a few plain spoken thoughts.
Now you see I have been noticing that Relief
Society of yours and I like your philanthropic
arrangements, I like the Catholic Sisters too, but
I am not going to say anything about them they
have a good time to what you do, their church
has not had such a hard time in the world of
late, and can do a great deal to help their women
along in a good work.
	But here is what I've been thinking—suppose
some of your rich men were to join and buy a
lot of land put it in a condition to be tenanted
and worked by a little neighborhood of folks that
are now in the market place idle, because like
that other man we read of in the Bible no man
hires them—Now if these rich men would put a
few work-shops with good foremen there too, a
school-house that children might be cared for
and all that—would it not help your society
wonderfully in looking after the poor. There,
you say to a woman who was a straw-braider,you
can go now and get work. To the lady that
makes nice little ornaments, flowers of all kinds
&c., there is work. The men who own this place
will pay you. The little girls can knit,sew rags,
make tidies and boys can help in the shops;
learn trades, work on the farms—instead of
being round the streets in idleness and becom-
ing schooled in the vicious ways of the wicked.
Magistrates, policemen, lawyers and jails cost
money. It costs more money to take care of a
practised rascal than it would take to furnish
schooling and work for a boy, and in nine cases
out of ten, the idle street boy becomes a scamp
to be provided for by taxation. I just know that
if your rich men would establish such a little
town, if it was needed in every County in Utah,
that there would be money as well as mercy in
it. I don't beleive in giving so much charity to


folks that are able to work. The sick; the little
folks and helpless, are the ones for you relief
ladies to look after, and I say you ought to have
a hospital and a good one too, where friendless
deserted women and other sick people, might be
provided for and you not have to run all over the
conntry to take care of them. I hope you'll
take this as I mean it, in real good will.
