106	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TALK.

	And so you don't believe in Primaries.
That's a calamity! Why? Because there is
a great sweep of precious light of this same
Primary Window, which you are so persistently
standing aside from. You think Mutuals are
enough, do you? Well now, my dear, do you
know, between you and me and the EXPONENT,
I would rather see every Mutual die out, than
to see these Primaries fail. If you live fifty
years longer, you will see the force of my last
assertion.
	I have seen men who wait and wait and
procrastinate the planting of trees and vines
from year to year, until when they are old and
weary they can do nothing about the matter
but mourn over lost opportunity, and look out
on a garden of weeds. They neglected to
"take Time by the forelock." And yet, you
don't believe in the Primary?
	I have seen some who never knew how to
start a fire. They would lay a bit of paper,
then a stick of wood, put the match to paper,
and grumble because it wouldn't burn." You
and I don't do that way. We lay the paper,
then some tiny, tiny bits of wood, then larger
kindling wood, then pile up our sticks, and
finally we throw on the logs and sit in the
blaze of our beautiful fire. Just so some peo-
ple expect with one mission, after a life of
dead emptiness, to kindle up a warm blaze that
will last through life. Once in a great while
its done; but much oftener the flame flares up
and then fades and dies mournfully out. The
kindling wood isn't there to support the logs.
And yet, you don't believe in Primaries.
	I have known ignorant painters who try to
paint a picture by laying a daub here, a blot
there, and call it something. But the artist
finds it easy to paint the big rock, the open
sky, the leafy tree. 'Tis the stamen of the
flower, the faint ray of light from the half-
opened casement, the fine web of lace at the
lady's throat, that proclaims him master. A
few strokes don't make a picture; 'tis the mi-
nutest details faithfully followed. And yet
you don't believe in the Primaries?
	You send your children to Sunday School?
That's good. But find me three men out of
three hundred that understand enough of hu-
man nature to feed the mind of childhood in-
telligently. I have long thought a woman far
more suitable to conduct a Sunday School.
Instinct teaches her, if she will but allow it to
sway her, how to administer food, both mental
and moral, to the undeveloped hungry mind.
These Primaries will plant out the shoots of
the tree of Knowledge, graft in the buds of
Faith and Sobriety, and train the vine of In-
telligence round the Rod of Iron. They will
lay the tiny sticks one upon another, week by
week, until in the time thereof the flame of
Opportunity will curl and lap in and around
the kindling wood—up—up—the logs are
reached, warmed and heat up until they light
with a glorious blaze all who are within their
reach, and we sit in the heavenly warmth with
joy and rejoicing.
	And you think the Primaries are of no use?
I am sorry, sorry for you. Just alter your
mind, comb your babies' hair, wash their dear
little eyes out and bundle them off to the Pri-
mary. Never mind if Johnnie has a hole in
his pants—mend it to-morrow; better a bare
knee than a bare mind.
	You may polish their faces and keep them as
clean as new tins, spend your time in clothing
and tidying them up, and leave their poor little
minds destitute of any covering. I have seen
well-dressed, clean-faced little people with their
minds shivering with neglect, exposed to the
scorching rays of Vulgarity, pierced by the
bitter winds of Untruth, foul with the slums
of street slang, and freezing with the ice of In-

[Column 2]
fidelity. How my heart yearns over such for-
saken outcasts from sweet intelligence!
	Shall you send your chickies to the Pri-
mary?
