	THE BLESSINGS OF  CHRISTMAS.

"Would'st thou from sorrow find a sweet relief,
Or is  thy heart opprest with woe untold?
Balm would'st thou gather for corroding grief?
Pour blessings round thee  like a shower of gold.

	"Christmas  comes  but once a year," is a com-
mon saying.  It  is  often  quoted  when  one  has
performed some generous act, or given himself a
holiday, or when  some  unusual  liberality  is  in-
dulged  in.   Well, Christmas  comes  but  once a
year, to  be sure, but  that  once  brings  joy  and
gladness   to  thousands, and  there  are more good
deeds  done on  Christmas day, or Christmas eve
perchance, than  at  any other  time  in  all  the
year.  Thank the  Lord  for  Christmas!   There
are many reasons why it should  be the best day,
when the best deeds should be enacted. The
Son  of  God, the  Savior  of  the world, was born,
as we suppose, on that eventful day.  It is meet
that all should celebrate it with good deeds, such
as He performed, and such as He and the angels
might recognize and record.  We read that Je-
sus,  our  Master,  went  about  doing  good;  then
should not those who profess to be his followers
imitate his example, and  go  about doing good,
dispensing the bounties which a kind Providence
has vouchsafed  to them  in  rich  abundance, to
the  poor  and  unfortunate, and  thus  show their 
appreciation  of  the life and character  of  the Sa-
vior,  their  elder  brother.  If  on  all  other  days
they are cold and hard, yea, even pitiless, it does
seem that on this day of days, a spark of that di-
vine love, which  every  human  soul  possesses,
must glow and warm the bosom, and cause it to 
overflow  with  kindness  and  love  which  will
manifest itself in living deeds of genuine benevo-
lence.  The  poor are remembered, the destitute
are  clothed,  the  sick  are  visited, the  sorrowing 
are  comforted, the aged rejoice, the children are
made happy, and no wonder it is designated "A
Merry Christmas!"  The family which has been
scattered  are  gathered  to  the  homestead  at
Christmas time, and exchange tender greetings.
Then the feasting, the music and the joyousness
begin.   All  exert  themselves  to  the  utmost
that  happiness  may be  the  result; and  is not
this  in  itself  beautiful?   Even  the  family  re-
unions at the Christmas time are sufficient,were
there nothing else, to fasten it firmly as a day of 
rejoicing, in  the  hearts  of  those  who love their 
friends.
Is there any picture more  pleasant to look up-
on than the  beaming  faces  of  a  happy family,
seated around  the  Christmas hearth, the bright
fire lighting up each countenance, and the merry
jest and witty repartee going  the  round  of  the
assembled circle;  the children in the background
on  tiptoe  with  the  excitement  of  new  toys,
games and amusements; music, songs and tales
of "auld  lang syne" fill  up  each precious  fast-
flitting moment.  These are some of the Christ-

[Column 2]
mas blessings  that come to  the fortunate  ones.
And if  the poor  are not forgotten, then there is
a consciousness of duty performed that is sure to
bring  sweet  peace  to  the  soul.    "It  is   more
blessed to give  than  to  receive" are indeed pre-
cious  words.  The  reward  immediately  waits
upon deeds of kindness and mercy, pouring heal-
ing balm into the aching human heart;  or if the
heart has no regrets, no sorrows, even then there
is a blessing in  doing a generous  act  towards  a
fellow being in need—"a peace that passeth  un-
derstanding."
	Hang up the children's stocking by all means.
It may seem a simple  thing,  but  it  affords infi-
nite pleasure to the little folks, and it is one  of
the reminiscences which they carry with  them
through life.  They never  forget  the  happiness
of Christmas morn, when on awaking from their 
rosy  slumbers  and  fanciful  dreams  of  Santa
Claus and his wonderful costume  and  turnout,
they rushed wildly for the stocking, to see what
dainties or toys  he had left  them  in  his  frolic-
some  journey o'er hill and dale.  How often  in
after  life do these  tender  memories  of  Christ-
mas  and  home  soften  the hearts  of men and
women  towards the destitute and  forlorn  little
creatures, who, through poverty and  misfortune
or untoward circumstances, have not the joys of 
childhood's home life, that so refine and beautify
the soul and prepare it for the larger and broader
plane of usefulness in after years.
	Peace and good will to all  mankind  has  ever
been the motto of the anniversary of His  birth,
who came "to bring  good  tidings  of  great  joy
which shall be to all people."  And while feast-
ing  and rejoicing with glad hearts and  cheerful
countenances, we should  not forget the  grandly
glorious  mission  of  the  advent  of  the  Son  of
which each returning Christmas  brings  to  the
household, they should be taught  to  honor  the
day and  reverence  the  name  of  Jesus, and the 
story of his birth should be as familiar as house-
hold words.  Yes, they should  sing  and  tell this
wonderful story.

Sing the sweet and touching story
Of  the babe in Bethl'em born;
How the morning star with glory
Lighted that auspicious morn.

What  more  beautiful  and  tender
Than  the blessed Savior's  birth?
Cradled in a lowly manger,
Was the King of all the earth.

	Of  all  people,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  whose
experiences  have  been  in  many  instances so
cruel and hard, and whose principles are of such
an exalted  nature, should  abound  in  heavenly
charity, which  remembers the unfortunate and
seeks out and administers to the poor and needy.
There are many who do this, and they  are  un
tiring  in  their  efforts to  reform the erring and
comfort and relieve the destitute, the widow and
orphan, but  the  blessed  Christmas should open
the hearts of all, even the  thoughtless  and  in-
different.
	There  are  many dear  old  ladies who have no
loving hands  to  caress them, or stroke their sil-
very hair, no one to anticipate  their wishes and
bring  them  little  elegancies  or luxuries at the
Christmas  time, and  they were once young and
perhaps  beautiful:  they  too  have  had  all  the
comforts  of  home,  and  may  have  been  sur-
rounded with affluence, but  time  has  changed
all this, and their  loved ones  are  laid  away, or
are in  other  lands,  which  they have left for the
Gospel's  sake;  they  are  in  need  of  sympathy
and tenderness.  Do not forget them.  You who
have  so  many  pretty  things, give  them a nice
handkerchief, a pair of gloves, a pretty ruffle, a
piece of soft lace for the neck—they wore deli-
cate laces in  the "long ago"—a bright  ribbon or
necktie  to  cheer  their sober  faces;  they are too

[Column 3]
old to hang up  their  stockings, and  too  keenly
sensitive  to  ask  favors, though they would fall
like the  fragrant  dew upon  the  wilted  flower.
Such gentle deeds  of holy  charity, and  kindly
words, and sunny smiles will never be forgotten;
the  angels  will  record  them  above, and  they
will call down  the  blessings  of heaven  in  rich
showers  upon  all  who  thus  minister  to  their 
fellow-creatures, and will prove both to the doer
and the recipient a true Christmas blessing.


