MEETINGS AND REORGANIZATION.

	The Fourth Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies composing the Parowan Stake of Zion
was held in the Parowan meeting house Nov.
13th. Quite a number of the brethren being
present. Verbal reports were given by the. re-
presentatives of the different branch societies
and organizations in the Stake showing a general
desire in both old and young to increase in know-
ledge and good works. Many of the sisters ad-
dressed the congregation exhorting one another
to diligence and perseverance in the work of God,
bearing testimony to the truth of the principle
of a pluraltiy of wives. President Dame, Bishop
Arthur and several of the brethren addressed
the sisters, said they were proud to see them
stand forth andso valiantly uphold the principles
of truth. Counseled them to seek the spirit of
God and its guidance in ail their undertakings.
Conference was adjourned to be held in Cedar
City on the 13th day of Febuary next.
	November 16th: The sisters of Cedar City
were highlypleased by a call from our beloved
Sisters E. R. Snow and Zina D.Youug, who held
meeting in the evening, imparting to all much
good instruction. Counseled mothers to have
a watchful care over their little ones, to strive
above all to instil into their tender hearts prin-
ciples of truth and virtue. Spoke on the prin-
ciple of Plural Marriage advising all never to
speak lightly of this holy order. Referred to
the necessity of home industries, encouraged the
sisters to persevere in their endeavors at silk
culture. Urged upon them the neccessity ot
attending their meetings and donating to the
poor. The meeting was considered by all pre-ent
to be a feast of good things and we humbly
thank our beloved sisters for their good instruc-
tion; praying the Lord to bless them and pre-
serve them in their labor of love.
	Dec. 6th,a reorganization, of the Young Ladies
M. I. A., was effected and he following young
ladies elected as officers. Caroline Keturah
Arthur, President; Sarah Ann Hig[-]ee, Julia
Ann Neilson Counselors; Ellen E., L. Jones,
Secretary: Sarah Ann Jones Ast. Sec’y., Louisa
Leigh, Treasurer. They were all set apart to
their various offices by the presiding brethren.
The former officers who have labored diligently
since the first organization five years ago, who
were at that time young girls, now have families
to attend to, therefore they are honorably 're-
leased with the blessings and good wishes of the
brethren and sisters for their faithfulness and
humility. May prosperity attend all associations
formed for the benefit, of God's people old afad
young is the prayerof your sister in the Gospel.
