R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
The sisters of Sanpete Stake held their
Quarterly Conference at Ephraim City Nov.
21, 1880. There were present on the stand
Pres. Wilford Woodruff, Pres. Teasdale of
Juab Stake, Pres. Petersen of this Stake and
Counselor, Henry Beal. Also others of the
local priesthood. After the reading of the
reports and verbal reports from presidents
of Relief Societies Pres. Hyde addressed the
congregation, upon the fulfillment of prophecy
and spoke of how fast the work of God seemed
to be progressing. Sister Wareham Pres. of
the Stake Silk Association, urged the sisters to
be energetic in promoting silk culture. Stated
that there had been about 14 pounds of silk
raised in the stake during the last season.
Sister Phebe Woodruff, of Salt Lake City,
spoke most comforting and encouraging to the
sisters; and to the mothers, she said her heart
was especialy drawn out, in view of the great
responsibility resting upon them, that of bear-
ing the souls of men; spirits that have been
held in reserve to come forth in this genera-


[Column 1]

tion, to assist in carrying out the great designs
of the Almighty; said it is highly necessary
that mothers cultivate meek, kind and passive
dispositions; that their children may inherit
the same traits of character. Mothers hardly
realize the importance of this their great mis-
sion, with the thousand and one other things
they have to attend to and worry them. But
sisters be noble and walk above the frivolous
trials of life and govern your families with
kindness and reason; and then ask God to for-
give the rest and when we get through our
trials will be our brightest jewels. And when
you have raised up families in the right way
prepared to be useful in the Church of God
rest assured you have performed a great mis-
sion.
	Pres. Woodruff spoke of the Patriarchal law
of marriage. Told the sisters never to be found
fighting against it if they did not enter into it
themselves. Spoke of government saying, we
were violating the law, but if we should re-
nounce this law it would be all the same as
long as we acknowledged modern revelations.
And there is no other law under heaven, by
which men can be exalted to thrones, powers,
principalities and the Godhead, save this law,
No man has a claim on a wife or chilld, or a
family position, or to the increase of seed with-
out this law. He said the sisters were a host
in Israel,and blessed them in the name of Jesus
Christ.
	Pres. Petersen and Teasdale poured out their
heartfelt thanks and blessings for the sisters.
	Sister Sarah Petersen was chosen as Coun-
selor to Pres. Hyde in place of Sister Anna
Larsen who was called to go with her husband
to Castle Valley.
	Sister Phebe Maiben was chosen as general
Supt., of the P. A., of Sanpete. I would like
to state that the total disbursements of last
quarter was $61,399,34; there must have been
a mistake in the print for it was printed, $399,
34, only.
	Singing, Benediction, and Conference was
adjourned until Feb. 21, 1881.
	P. S. Dear Editor—Pres. Hyde has re-
turned from her visit to St. George and the
temple, with a rich flow of the spirit of God, to
enable her to strengthen the sisters as she
travels among them, exhorting them to dili-
gence in every duty devolving upon them.
	The sisters of this place (Spring City) were
so pleased with her return, and anxious to re-
ceive of her influence they made a surprise
party, after which they held meeting all enjoy-
ing the excellent instructions and strong
testimonies of our beloved Pres. Sister Mary A.
P. Hyde.
	Sister Frantzen. Pres. of the Relief Society
in this place takes special pains to fill her re-
sponsible position as a mother to the sisters.
Hoping you will find room in your excellent
paper for this, and wishing you continual
success and joy in your most beneficial labor.
	I remain your sister in the Covenant,
		FANNY KOFFORD, Cor., Sec'y.

	Synopsis of the twelfth annual report of
Wellsville, Cache Co., at the meeting held
July 12, 1880. Total receipts, $157,06. Dis-
bursements: sundries, $17,61; to needy, $57,73;
Temple, $58,78. Cash and merchandis  on
hand, $91,08. Shares in Co-operative Institu-
tions, $124,45.
	Pres. E. Whiton made a few opening re-
marks; some of our brethren being present,
she gave the meeting into their hands.
	Coun. Evan Owens expressed his satisfac-
tion; was pleased with the united spirit that
existed among the sisters, and exhorted them
to be faithful in well doing.
	Brothers R. Baxter, R. Leatham, J. Wood-
ard and T. Howell being present, felt that our
societies were calculated to do a great amount
of good; showed the importance of the sisters

[Column 2]

living up to their privileges, and exhorted
them to be one with the priesthood, setting an
example before our children worthy of imita-
tion.
	Pres. Whiton made a few closing remarks,
exhorting us to be faithful in carrying out the
instructions which had been given. Singing,
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Benediction
by Elder R. Leatham.
		SUSANNAH E. LLOYD, Sec'y.
		MARTHA A. LLOYD, Ass't Sec'y.

	The Santaquin Relief Society held their
twelfth annual meeting on Thursday, Nov. 4,
1880. Singing, prayer, etc. The report for
the year and the annual reports of the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary Association and Silk
Association were read. Pres. Stickney as usual
spoke very encouragingly to the sisters upon
the importance of the early training of their
children and sustaining the Primary and
Young Ladies Associations.
	Bishop Halliday addressed the sisters for a
short time. His remarks were calculated to
encourage us to be diligent and persevere in
the good work in which we delight, &c.
	Brother Johnathan Wolstenhulme followed
with some very encouraging and appropriate
remarks, blest the sisters in ministering to the
wants of the needy, &c.
	Counselor E. Broadbent bore testimony to
the truth of the work. The Spirit of the
Lord was in our midst. We had an excellent
time; many more of the sisters were desirous
to speak, but time would not permit.
	Praying God to bless all those who labor for
the welfare of Zion,
	ELIZABETH J. STICKNEY, Pres't.
