LUCRETIA  MOTT.

	The  Press  and   the  Pulpit  of  the  country
gave, the most ample, cordial and well-deserved
testimony to  the  personal  excellence  of  Mrs.
Mott,  to  her  superior  intellectual  ability, to
her   moral  courage, to the  statesmanlike quali-
ties, and to  the  decisive part she  took  in shap-
ing and  carrying forward great national  move-
ments, while at the  same  time  she  maintained
the  most  beautiful  home life.   Her death was
a national  loss,  and  was so regarded.
	But the  question  forces  itself;  If it  was  so-
praiseworthy that  Mrs. Mott  shrank from no
peril to free the  slaves, that she stood with the
first advocates  of  equal rights for women, with
the friends of free thought in  religion, and  of
temperance  and  peace,  how  can  those  who
praise  Mrs. Mott  justify their  own  failure  to
follow  her  example,  or,  still  worse,  how  can
they justify their opposition to these movements
so cherished by Mrs. Mott?
	For more than thirty  years she asked for the 
right  of  citizenship for women.   But she  died
a disfranchised  subject.   What possible  praise
of  this dear  saint can hide so shameful  a  fact,
or  relieve  the  hollow  sound  of  eulogy  from
those whose  deeds  do not support  their words?
	The  Brooklyn  Eagle  proposes  that  women
build Mrs. Mott  a  monument.   But  would  it
not be more  suitable that  men who now praise
Mrs  Mott,  who  have  not  helped,  but  rather
hindered, her  great  claim for  equal  rights for
women,  should  build  her  a  monument  tall
enough  to  have inscribed on it her great heroic,
and  her  sweet  womanly  qualities;  and  below
these  let  it  be  written:  "This  monument  is
dedicated  with  reverent  tenderness  to  the
memory  of  Lucretia  Mott, by  repentant  men
who failed to  support her claim  for  justice  to
her sex, and  who  let her die held by law to the 
political  level  of  felons  and  idiots,  but  who
now, by this token, pledge their best endeavors
to   establish  for  women  the  claim  to  equal
rights which she never ceased to make!"
	Surely the  highest tribute that can  be  paid
to  Mrs.  Mott  is  to  carry out  the  idea to the
support  of  which  she gave her life.
	One  after  another, women  who  are great as
philanthropists, great as statesmen, great as re-
formers, pass  away.   Sarah  Grimke, Angelina
Weld, L. Maria Child and Lucretia Mott, each
helped  to  mold the  age  in  which  they lived.
Their virtues are extolled when  they are dead.
But  the  great  objects  to  which  they devoted
time, strength, money and life, are left unaided
by the  majority  of  those who  are  foremost to
sound their praises.   It may be to the credit of
such  persons that they are  able  to  appreciate
the worth  and  work  of  these  women.  But it
will  add nothing to  their own credit that they
refuse  to  aid,  or  are  indifferent  to the  claims
for  justice  to women  and  equal  rights  for  all
which  Mrs. Mott  upheld,  and  on  account  of
which all  hearts are  now drawn with  grateful
reverence to her memory.  Why  will they not
take  up  the  work  that  fell  from  her  hands
only when  life  itself  ceased, and  thus  aid  in
carrying it forward where she longed and strove
to have it go?	L. S.
—Woman's  Journal.


"FOREFATHERS' Day" will be celebrated in
Plymouth this year with an old-fashioned an-
niversary. Gov. Long, ex-Gov. Rice, Presi-
dent Eliot and Rev. Dr. McKenzie have been
invited to speak, and J. T. Fields to contribute
a peem.—Ex.

	DIED.—On Nantucket Island, Nov. 8, Mrs.
Emmeline Coffin, aged 76 years and 6 months.
She was the wife of Capt. Geo. W. Coffin, and
for, fifty years the stepmother of Rev. Phebe
A. Hannaford, who paid a beautiful tribute at
the funeral to her excellence, and also, at the
same time, to their honored relative, Lucretia
Mott.—Ex.


