EDUCATION  AND  OCCUPATION.

	MRS.  EDITOR:—No  subject, with  regard  to
helping  the  unfortunate ones  of  the  earth, is
so impressed  upon  my mind as that of provid-
ing  education  and  occupation.   I  cannot  ex-
press  the  gratified  feelings  with  which I con-
template  the work  of  improvement among our
children and young people;  nor the admiration
with  which  I  regard  those  ladies  who  are so
vigorously  prosecuting this good and great for-
ward movement in our community.
	I have been much engaged  in  the  care of
children  during  my  life. Experience  has
taught  me that in a child's  education one item
is  important—that  man  is  required to render
to  the  world  a  compensation, for  all  that he
consumes  at  least, even though he do  only eat
and drink and die.  But if he would aspire to
anything  more  beyond  this, he  must  become
useful in his sphere in proportion to his aspira-
tion  to  place  himself  in  positions where  men
will be delighted to honor him.
	Idleness, aimless and listless, without  a  pur-
pose  to  accomplish any good thing, inevitably
leads  to  ruin.   Idleness  among  the  healthy
poor  ought  to  be  regarded  as  a  crime  in the
eye  of  the  law, if  provision  is  made  for the
employment of these healthy poor.   But if no
provision  is  made  to  furnish  profitable work
for  such  as  by any cause or circumstance fail
to be  able to plan for themselves business that
will give them a living, then  there is  a  crimi-
nal  neglect  on  the  part  of  such  as have  the
power  to  supply  such  amounts  of land, such
workshops  of  every sort, such broad  and  com-
petent  furnishings, as shall  enable every man,
woman  and  child  who has health to become a
producer  as  well  as  a  consumer.   Anything
less than this is demoralizing  in  its  tendency;
it leads to little else than  a  condition  akin  to
robbery.  The  one  who  eats  the  bread  not
earned by the sweat of his own brow, eats that
which was earned  by the sweat of his neigh-
bor's  brow,  which  leaves him  his  neighbor's
debtor.  How  can  this  be  prevented?  Very
simply.  Romulus  and  Solomon  knew  how.
Let every one have work to do by a systematic
arrangement  of  lands  and  tenements—educa-
tional provision, artistic  and  literary, carrying
with them all necessary preparations for  thor-
ough  business  and  social  benefits.   Let  all
these be provided and placed under the care of 
such  persons  as  are  capable  of  directing  the
needed  labor,  and  how  great  a  deliverance
would be wrought out.
	What if a few  wealthy men  should  appro-
priate  all  they  had  to  furnish  work  for  the
poor, how many  years would pass  before those
who had thus loved their poor neighbors would
in  wealth  outweigh  the  richest  nabob  in  the
land?  Were  there a little village like this in
every county in Utah, the Relief Societies, the
Bishops, and all that go abroad to gather dona-
tions for the poor, would be relieved from more
than  one-half  their work, and  have  the  satis-
faction of  clearing our streets of  indigent poor,
and  planting honor ond usefulness in the room
of  vice  and  degradation.   Also,  they  would
have double  time  to  nurse  the  sick,  visit the
widow  in  her  afflictions,  and  seek  after  the
wayward  and  forsaken.
	Yours truly,
	M. J. C.


THE Baroness Burdett-Coutts has expended
more than $500,000 in ameliorating the condi-
tion of the poor and deserving fishermen of the
United Kingdom.


