CHRISTMAS  GREETINGS  AND  REMI-
NISCENCES.
EDITOR  EXPONENT:
 Dear Friend and Sister—“AMerrie Christ-
mas and  a  Happy New Year!” to  you.  These
have been  household words for so many centu-
ries, that I would not alter or  change them for
any new-fangled  version  that  could be given
to them.  What a fund of life, and health, and
hilarity, have  they  caused in the households of
-the world, as one came bounding into  the halls
of rejoicing, when  it  was fashionable  to speak
the feelings of  the heart without form or pref-
ace, and each one was  eager to be  the  first  to
offer the eternal greeting that precedes the day
of  universal rejoicing. “Peace on  earth, and
good will  to men” was  the  universal  text.
What  unlocking  of  hearts ! What  beautiful
freedom,  what  rejoicing, what  blessed gather-
ings of dispersed households! “All the family
meet  at Christmas,” was  the  tale  all  had  to
tell.  Boys and girls “broke up” school for the
Christmas holid[-]ys, and  oh!  the joy of going to
the station in  a  crowd  to receive  the  young
brain workers, who had been away six months;
even  the porter and the  dignitaries  of  the sta-
tion caught the  enthusiasm, and  threw  open
the doors  of  the  cars with a smile  of welcome
as the young travelers rushed forth, and seemed
to  enjoy the  hugs  and  kisses  of brothers and
sisters and cousins almost as much  as  the re-
cipients themselves--so contagious is happiness!
 Christmas  eve was  all fun  and frolic, every
rooffi decorated  with “ivy green” ‘and- the
Christmas holly, with  its  beautiful scarlet ber-
ries; and them from  a  large  bunch  of  ever-
greens in the centre of the ceiling was the mys-
terious mistletoe bough, half sacred, half secu-
lar, peeping out as if afraid of being seen;  but
that was  for  the  coming ball—no notice was
taken of that to-night.  But there was a table
set with monster plum  cakes, nuts, apples, and
above  all  the  snap-dragons!  The  room  now
was  darkened, and  these  being prepared were
ignited, and  then  commenced the grand fun of
the evening--snatching the burning fruit from
the  smoking dish—and every face  having  a
purple and cadaverous hue!
 Then on  Christmas  day morning  all  were
awakened by a lovely peel of  merry bells, ush-
ering  in  this  most  notable  day.  All  rushed
from  their beds  and quickly descended to  the
breakfast  table, where  sat  father  and mother
ready  to  receive  their  loved  children;  every
heart  was  light,  every  face  wore  a  smile  of
happiness and satisfaction.
 And so a week, and  often more, was passed
in  an interchange of the “sweet amenities” of
life. Nor were the sacred duties  of that time
ever  omitted;  rich  and  poor  remembered the
holy institutions  of  that  day,  and religiously
observed them;  and the rich ever spread tables
for the poor  on  that day, and  they enjoyed to-
gether the temporal  and  the spiritual.  Every
prison  throughout  the  country  had  its  rich
Christmas fare spread out upon it.  Surely the
Great  Father  looked  on  the  rejoicing  of  his
earthly  family, and  blest  the  good  and  pure
with  an  especial  blessing  on  that world-
renowned day!
 My mind  has run off  into  other  days  and
other scenes, and almost carried me away;  cer-
tainly away from what I sat down to do—which
was to write a letter to you, my dear friend and
sister, to give you the greetings  of  my heart at
this time.  Close  up  that  desk,  lock  up  that
office, and  retire to a place where you can take
a rest—a Christmas  holiday;  for  surely  you
have  earned one. You  have worked  for  the
public, and the public will  gladly wait on you,
till  you  are again ready to put on the harness.
May  health  of  body  and  strength  of  mind
long, long be yours, till  you shall lie down like
a shock of corn, fully ripe, reposing for a brief
period in the sleep  of death, and then awaken
in  the very  presence chamber of  your  Father,
your God and  mine, and the God  and  Father
of  all  the  good  of  all  ages  and generations,
since the world  began.  I - finish as I began—
“A Merrie Christmas and a Happy New Year”
to you and all yours.
