CONTINUED.

	Jesse was industrious and made his family
comfortable as fast as possible. During the
fall several small detachments of the Mormon
Battalion came into the valley. They were
disbanded at San Diego, and left to find their 
way back to their friends as best they could;
footsore and weary, ragged and starving, they
made their way to Salt Lake, while others of
their company stayed in California, or returned
by way of Sante Fe to join their friends at
Winter Quarters. The people at Salt Lake
had no surplus provisions, and at once placed
themselves on half rations, that they might di-
vide with their famishing brethren. It was a
time that tried men's souls, and some, like An-
nanias and Sapphira, were tempted to conceal
their substance, for self-preservation is the first
law of nature, and the saying is perhaps never
more fully realized than under such circum-
stances. All the cattle that could be spared
were killed for meat, the hides, feet and en-
trails were cleaned and eaten. The bones which
were thrown out were crushed and gnawed by
the children, who could not get sufficient to
supply their growing appetites. The Battalion
boys, as they were called, suffered most, for
many of them had no families to share with
them, and although they were not allowed to
starve, their wants could not be fully sup-
plied, and their attenuated forms and hollow
cheeks bore witness to suffering that will never
be forgotten, even though they live to more
than the ordinary age of man. The people
were blessed with health and strength, and it
was several years before disease or death be-
came prevalent among them.
	In the spring, land was ploughed and crops
put in, but with what result they could hardly
anticipate; for the Indians said that no rain
fell in the summer, ahd the country was
parched and dry. A mountaineer, who had
lived twenty years in the country, said he had
tried repeatedly to raise corn or wheat, and it
would not grow in this climate. He would
pay one thousand dollars for the first bushel of
corn raised in the valley. The corn ripened,
and the wheat also, but the thousand dollars
never came. The crickets did though, and
ate the crops so fast that there was a prospect
of losing the whole. The people turned out
en masse, and fought them almost night and
day, killing them by bushels; but all their ef-

[Column 2]
forts seemed to no purpose. The crickets were
horrid looking creatures, such as the people
had never seen before; with bodies as large as
a young mouse, long legs and unwieldy move-
ments, something between a run and a jump.
The ground was black with them, and wher-
ever they went all vegetation disappeared as
though a fire had passed over it. The loss of
their crops would entail great suffering and
probable starvation upon the entire people, as
supplies could not possibly have been brought
from the East or the West in time to save
them, and such scant subsistence as the abor-
igines procured would have hardly sufficed
the white man, their diet being chiefly berries,
sunflower seeds, dried crickets, fish and a little
game. They fasted and prayed, prayed with
an earnestness born of despair, and a faith
strengthened by God's past mercies. A few
days later, myriads of birds were seen in the
air; whirling around for a while, they settled
in the fields of grain and commenced a raid on
the crickets, eating as long as they could.
They would drink and then throw them up,
then eat again, until the crickets were all gone,
and then flew away. The birds proved to be
sea gulls; and as they were not in the habit of
migrating to this country, their coming was
considered a special dispensation of Providence
in behalf of the little band of exiles; and
truly their thanksgiving was due, when, at
harvest, they made a feast, and raising a liberty
pole, floated from its top the dear old flag of
the Union, and adorned it with sheaves of
wheat, oats and barley. A bowery was made,
under which long tables were spread with the
best the country afforded, and every person
was bountifully supplied; after which the day
was spent with music and dancing.
	While Jesse was at work on a grist-mill that
was being built, the scaffolding gave way, pre-
cipitating him sixteen feet, breaking some of
his ribs and injuring him badly. When he
wss carried home Mary was very much fright-
ened, but it was a comfort to know that his in-
juries were not fatal. She nursed him tenderly,
always self-denying and thoughtful of the com-
fort of others, she was a friend and guide to
him in those hours of darkness and suffering.
When he was again able to walk, he often went
with his little girl to the garden, where they
would busy themselves with such tasks as their
small strength could accomplish. He was fond
of his child, and she, in turn, dearly loved her
father. She often sat for hours watching him
as he worked, for he was a carpenter by trade,
and wished she was a boy, so she could be a
carpenter, too. Sometimes she ventured to try
her skill, which generally brought her trouble.
In the fall a tiny baby came to them; a mar-
vel of pink and white, so soft and tender.
Minnie was never tired of looking at it, or
working for it. It was the first baby in their
home since her recollection, and it was her
own, her very own little baby sister. In fact,
the advent of baby Nettie brought much plea-
sure to all; the heart is cold and hard indeed
that does not warm at the appealing helpless-
ness of infancy.
	Jesse's crops were entirely destroyed by the
crickets, his long illness kept him from em-
ployment, aud another winter was near. The
fall emigration came in, expecting to find pro-
visions raised here, which they would have
done had not the crickets made such havoc;
but there not being sufficient grain raised to
supply the demand, before another harvest
many were suffering. Roots and herbs were
gathered, the cattle needed for labor were
killed, and every available means resorted to
for subsistance. Those who had plenty di-
vided with their less fortunate brethren, but
there was still much suffering and discourage-
ment. Jesse worked hard, but he was not
strong, and the lack of suitable nourishment
and home comforts wore on his constitution.
The constant discouragements, the hopelessness

[Column 3]
of their situation, the helpless ones dependent
on him for support, weighed down his spirits,
and he felt many times that if it were possible
he would order things otherwise; but the horse,
when tied to the treadmill, must keep stepping
on, on, no stopping, no turning back. A train
of circumstances had placed him where he
was, and there could be no stopping, just a
weary pressing on. A thousand miles from
civilization, across a barren Indian country, it
was not possible to return. He could feel to
sympathize with the Israelites, when they
longed for the leeks and onions, but he must
struggle on, struggle for existence, for the dear
ones in his care—for the wife, drooping be-
neath her burdens, the little ones that might
never know the advantages of education, or
the delicacies and refinements of life. What
were the future prospects? The crops, owing
to the difficult mode of irrigation, and the la-
bor it cost to water them from the mountain
streams, must necessarily be small, even if the
crickets did not return. Their half-starved
Indian neighbors made constant demands on
them for food, giving no labor in return. Their
idea was that the white man had taken their
hunting grounds and must feed them. A little
band in the heart of the Rocky Mountains,
where there was nothing to induce people to
come with means for improvement, who would
seek them out, or give them succor? Hard,
rough labor wore out their clothing very fast,
and how was it to be replaced? A few more
years and they would have to dress like the
Indians. What chance had they to build cities,
when everything had to be transported over
the plains with ox teams, a distance of thir-
teen hundred miles? Those were dark days,
and it took strong faith or childish simplicity
to make them otherwise. There was so much
to suffer, so much to fear, and so little to
brighten or encourage, that it was no wonder
if his heart failed, or his faith grew weak.
Mary bore her trials with fortitude, but who
shall say she did not sometimes feel the dark-
ness of despair hovering about her? She had
left loving hearts and warm friends, father,
mother, brothers and sisters, who felt that she
was buried in a living grave; and she almost
felt, sometimes, as though she was, or would
be literally buried when the snow fell so deep
and fast, day and night, without cessation, that
it threatened to bury their little cabin in the
mountains, where they then lived alone, except
for a few lumbermen; for Jesse was building a
saw mill that winter, and they were isolated
even from their few fellow-sufferers in exile.

To be continued.


