[Vol6 | September 1919 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson II Work and Business]
494  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Home  Courses. 
THE    SIGNIFICANCE    OF    PLAYGROUNDS     IN     THE 
COMMUNITY  LIFE. 
Lesson  IV. 
Fourth  Week  in  September. 
As  cities  have  developed,  an  increasing  proportion  of  the  na- 
tion's population  has  been  removed  from  the  influence  of  the  open 
country  with  all  that  it  means  for  our  national  health  and  vigor 
and  clean  imagination.  Cities  have  met  this  situation  in  three 
ways : — one  is  the  making  possible  of  brief  visits  of  children  and 
elderly  people  to  the  country  during  the  summer  time ;  another 
is  the  provision  of  city  parks,  which,  with  their  fields  and  wood- 
lands and  stretches  of  green  grass  and  water,  preserve  some  of 
the  beautiful  features  of  the  country  for  city  eyes  to  feast  upon; 
the  third  is  the  public  playground  which  offers  to  city  children  a 
chance  for  some  free  sport  in  the  open  air  and  on  Mother  Earth. 
The  play  ground  is  a  place  near  at  hand  to  which  children  can  run 
on  .short  notice  and  from  which  they  can  return  quickly,  so  that 
the  playground  becomes  an  integral  part  of  the  daily  life. 
Experience  with  the  city  playgrounds  has  proved  that  aside 
from  its  recreational  advantage,  the  playground  is  of  such  great 
value  to  the  right  development  of  the  child  that  its  establishment 
for  all  children  and  all  communities  is  justified  and  most  desire- 
able. 
It  is  not  at  all  sufficient  that  the  children  be  protected  from 
danger  during  their  helpless  years,  but  that  they  be  furnished  with 
sturdy,  disease-resisting  bodies  is  equally  important.  Every  child 
has  a  right  to  be  as  healthy  as  present  knowledge  can  make  him ; 
health  under  conditions  of  modern  life  is  not  a  thing  which  will 
take  care  of  itself.  The  child  bred  under  present  conditions  of 
civilization  cannot  be  relied  upon  to  grow  to  healthy,  vigorous 
maturity  like  a  rabbit  in  the  woods.  He  needs  special  education 
in  health  habits  and  recreation  if  he  is  to  develop  normally.  The 
child  should  be  taught  that  health  is  more  to  be  desired  than  fame 
or  wealth — that  it  is  the  foundation  of  all  real  success  and  happi- 
ness. And  supervised  play  is  one  of  the  best  means  of  attaining 
and  retaining  that  health. 
Recreation  is  essential  to  the  moral  life  of  any  people.  It  is 
the  constructive  method  of  making  individuals  into  good  citizens, 
and  the  making  of  good  stury  citizenship  is  most  important.  The 
play  spirit  teaches  us  how  better  to  live  and  work  together ;  so

GUIDE  LESSONS  495 
there  is  a  broad  relation  between  the  playground  movement  and 
other  efforts  for  better  citizenship  and  better  community  life. 
Play  means  not  only  a  good  time,  but  from  the  child's  point 
of  view,  it  i.s  serious  business ;  moreover,  it  has  vital  significance 
in  educational  development.  The  playgrounds  are  training 
grounds  for  lessons  that  cannot  be  taught  within  the  four  walls 
of  home  or  school. 
In  a  typical  playground  the  policy  of  allowing  children  co 
learn  by  experience,  but  safe-guarding  the  experience  so  that  it 
shall  not  be  disastrous,  is  one  of  the  underlying  principles.  In 
addition  to  receiving  the  physical  benefits  that  come  from  whole- 
some ovitdoor  exercise  and  the  intellectual  benefits  that  come  from 
useful  constructive  work,  the  little  children  playing  on  the  sand 
pile  learn  fundamental  les.sons  in  mutual  rights.  The  older  chil- 
dren learn  lessons  in  mutual  relationships  by  sharing  the  use  of 
swings,  by  having  to  play  by  the  rules  of  the  game.  Later,  as 
they  form  into  teams,  they  learn  that  self-sacrifice  which  is  in- 
volved in  the  team  game.  They  learn  that  the  social  unit  i^  larger 
than  the  individual  unit,  that  individual  victory  is  not  as  sweet 
as  the  victory  of  the  team,  and  that  the  most  perfect  self-realua- 
tion  is  won  by  the  most  perfect  sinking  of  one's  self  in  the  welfare 
of  the  larger  unit — the  team.  Thus  the  child  learns  to  control 
himself  in  these  increasingly  complex  relationships. 
The  control  in  a  playground  is  the  sort  that  obtains  through- 
out well  regulated  society — the  control  by  public  opinion  lather 
than  control  of  either  force  or  fear. 
The  two  great  institutions  that  have  to  do  with  the  training 
of  the  child — the  home  and  the  school — rest  primarily  upon  the 
development  of  the  qualities  of  obedience.  The  playground,  alone 
affords  to  children  the  one  great  opportunity  for  cultivating  those 
ciT'alities  that  grow  out  of  meeting  others  of  like  kind  under  condi- 
tions of  freedom ;  it  develops,  progressively  from  babyhood  on  to 
adult  life,  that  sense  of  human  relationship  which  is  basal  to 
wholesome  living.  The  development  of  the  ethical  social  self 
must  begin  as  soon  as  the  child  is  old  enough  to  have  relations 
to  other  children  of  his  own  age,  and  it  must  continue  as  long  as 
human  life  continues.  And  the  people  of  the  smaller  communities 
need  this  training  just  as  much  as  the  city  dweller. 
Democracy  must  provide  not  only  a  seat  and  instruction  for 
every  child  in  the  school,  but  also  play  and  good  play  traditions  foi 
every  child  in  the  playground.  Without  the  development  of  these 
social  instincts,  without  the  growing  of  social  conscience — which 
has  its  roots  in  the  early  activities  of  the  playground — we  cannot 
expect  adults  to  possess  tho,se  higher  feelings  which  rest  upon  the 
earlier  social  virtues  developed  during  childhood.  The  sandpile 
for  the  small  children,  the  playground  for  the  middle-sized  child,