The Lights the Way" was the theme for the Magazine department and Magazine display at the Annual General Relief Society conference, . A colorful mural depicting the theme showed sisters of the Church around the world joining hands in a common fellowship of understanding and purpose through the light of The . The mural, painted by Irene Emigh, served as a background in the department, and was an interesting part of the display.

"The Magazine Lights the Way for Relief Society Workers"—East Cache Stake—Mildred H. Himes, stake Relief Society president, Rachel M. Plaser, stake Magazine representative. Each pedestal represented a different program of Relief Society—all guided by light from The . Four of these programs are pictured in addition to the entire display: Visiting Teaching, Nursery, Compassionate Service, and Singing Mothers.

Five stakes and The Editorial and Mailing Departments prepared table displays.

Fourteen steps in the makeup of the Magazine "from manuscript to press" were shown in a display titled "High Lights of the Magazine." A background map indicated that more than 278,000 copies of the Magazine were mailed each month all over the world except to those countries behind the Iron Curtain. These "High Lights" helped the sisters viewing the display to understand and appreciate the careful planning, time, and attention to detail required by the dedicated individuals who prepare and mail the Magazine each month. (Continued on page 451) 

The Nursery Compassionate Service * Visiting Teachers
"The Magazine Lights the Way for the Spanish-Speaking Sisters."
Mexico City Stake—Leona F. Wagner, stake Relief Society president; Ruth France, stake Magazine representative.
Mural and artifacts of the South American people past and present, portraying the times of spiritual darkness and the blessings of the light of the gospel. On the right side can be seen Spanish sisters receiving The in the Spanish language.

Singing Mothers
"The Magazine Lights the Way at Holiday Time."
Palo Alto Stake—Alice M. Jorgensen, stake Relief Society president; Elaine Tuttle, stake Magazine representative.
Holiday ideas from the Magazine arranged in lighted shadow boxes carried out the theme.