WHOSE FAULT WAS IT?
Wait  a  minute, mother!  Do  not  call  that
little bundle of innocent simplicity a "naughty,
bad child!"  until  you have considered  the case.
He comes in hot and thirsty, tired, hungry and
dirty from  his play.  He  does  not  know that
you  have  just  got  "things  straightened up" in
the  kitchen;  that  you  have  been  working fast
and are  yourself  tired  and  nervous;  that  baby
has  only  now  fallen  asleep  for  the  first  time
since  breakfast;  and  that  papa  will  be  in  for
dinner directly and  you  are in such a hurry to
get  everything  ready  for  the  time  he  comes.
You should not expect a child of  three or four
years  old, even  as  bright and sensible  as  your
own, to  think  of  all  these  things.  When  he
calls  out  lustily for  a  piece  of  cake  or bread
and  butter,  don't  make  more  noise  than  he
does  in  trying  to  correct  the  mistake  he has
made.  Perhaps the rattling of the sewing ma-
chine  in  the next room, and the noise made by
mashing the potatoes in the kettle on the stove-
hearth  cause  him  to  think  he  will  have  to
scream to be heard.  If he  startles  the  baby
out  of  its  sleep  the  best  and  cheapest course
for you  to  pursue is to take him gently by the
hand and quietly hush him, while you lnll baby
off  to sleep again;  and  then  see to  your  three-
year  old  darling's  wants  the  first  thing.  It
won't  take more than three  or four minutes to
wipe  the  dust  from  his  face  and  eyes with a
wet cloth, give him a drink of milk and some-


thing to eat. He will likely fall asleep where
you leave him, so you would better put him in
some safe corner on a comfortable cot, and take
off his shoes. You will then have no more
trouble with him for some hours perhaps, and
can have your dinner in quiet.
	If you are only five minutes behind hand
with your dinner, and papa comes in at the
exact moment when it should be ready, he will
be glad of that five minutes to rest in before
eating. For of course your children's papa is a
sensible man, such a husband as a woman like
yourself deserves. And he does not think five
minutes rest such a loss of time on his part,
that he must rush out and begin some little job
that will take him a quarter of an hour to do,
and keep dinner waiting on him for ten min-
utes because he would have had to wait for it
five. He considers other people's time as good
as his own; he knows his wife is one of the
best and most patient women in the world, and
does not wish to try her patience unnecessarily.
He can and will try as hard as she does to
have everything go on in his home in the most
orderly and harmonious style. And how won-
derfully successful they are!
	What was asked about somebody being at
fault? Nothing has gone wrong. No one has
been to blame.
