VISIT  TO SANPETE—NOTES BY THE
			   WAY.
			     ------
	In company with Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith
and  Zina  D. Young, we  left  this  city  by  the
Utah  Southern  train  Tuesday morning, Aug. 3,
intending  to  make a tour through Sanpete and
Juab  counties.  Arrived at  Nephi  just  before
noon, and  found Sister  Goldsbrough in waiting
with  a  carriage,  in which  we were  very  soon
seated  and  drove direct  to  her house,  where
dinner  had been  prepared for our party.  After
resting a short time we all started with Brother
House in his conveyance on our wsy to  Sanpete
through Salt Creek Canon.  The scenery is pic-
turesque, and one may gaze with the most pro-
found admiration on the stupendous mountain
heights,some of them crowned with snow-white
caps.  Mount Nebo  is  famed as being the high-
est  point  in  the  Wasatch  range, and is indeed
grandly  magnificent.  A narrow gauge railroad
is in process of construction through this wind-
ing canon  and  will  soon  be  completed.  This
will be a very great advantage to travelers.
	We reached Fountain  Green, the first settle-
ment in Sanpete valley, jnst before nightfall, and
found  Sister  M. A. Hyde was  there  before us.
She  had  come  to  take  us in her carriage on to
the other settlements.  After supper attended a
general meeting  of the Relief Society the same
evening.  The  next  morning we  had  just  fin-
ished  an  early  breakfast when a telegram was
received for Mrs. Zina D. Young, saying her son
had met with an accident on the Utah Western
Railroad, and it would be  necessary for  her  to
return.  We were very sorry to part with her so
soon, but  we  felt  most  deeply  how  her  heart
must be drawn out for one so near and dear; and
we knew her first duty was  to  him.  We at-
tended a meeting of the Primary Association at
nine o’clock A. M., and  then  proceeded on our
journey to Wales, where we arrived in time for
dinner, and  held a meeting with  the  brethren
and  sisters,  and  went  on  our  way.  At four
o’clock arrived in Moroni, where we attended a
meeting of the P. A. of that place.  The school-
house had been decorated in honor of the sisters,
visit, and the children were all in their “Sunday
clothes,” smiling  and  happy.  There  were  a
number  of exercises  by  the  little  folks, all  of
which  were  well rendered;  among  the number
was  an  essay by May Kimball, which was very
good; it was on the subject of cleanliness.  her
sister, a very little  girl, recited “Flowers in the
Wildwood” very  creditably.  Everywhere we
found the children making rapid progress.  Eight
little  girls  dressed  in white came forward and
sang “A Welcome,” composed  for  this  special
occasion.  Peter Swinson, a young lad, perhaps
eleven  years  old,  offered  the  opening  prayer.
The children all seemed very intelligent and
kept excellent order.
	We remained over  night, and attended a fast
meeting  in  the  morning;  after the business  of
the meeting—receiving fast  offerings and bless-
ing children—was concluded, the brethren put
the meeting into the bands of the sisters, Mrs.
Jane  Bailey,  President  of  the  Relief Society,
presiding.
	The next place we visited was Mt. Pleasant,
where we were joined by other sisters from Spring
City,  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Allred  and  Mrs.  Annie
Larson, Counselors to Sister  M. A. Hyde in the
Relief Society  Stake organization, and  other la-
dies.  In  Mt.  Pleasant  two  Primary  Associa-
tions were  organized, one in the North and one
in the South Ward;  289 members enrolled. The
meeting house was well filled at both the Relief
Society  and  Primary  Association  meetings.
From Mt. Pleasant we went to Fairview, where
three meetings were held, and on Sunday morn-
ing quite a company of brethren and sisters from
Spring  City, Mt. Pleasant  and  Fairview  went
over  to  Thistle  Valley to hold meeting.  The
log  meetinghouse was  much  too  small, so the
meeting convened,  forenoon  and  afternoon, in
the  bowery  outside.  There  was a considerable
number  of Lamanites, all  nicely  dressed, look-
ing as happy as possible.  After the singing and
prayer, Bro.  Spencer,  who  presides  over  the
Saints in that locality, spoke to  the Indians in
their own language, explaining who the sisters
were, who had  come to visit  them, and  the na-
ture of their mission among the organizations of
women and children.  After Bro.  Spencer had
spoken  he  introduced “Sister Eliza,” and  told
the  congregation  she  was  the  widow  of  the
Prophet Joseph  Smith, the  man to  whom the
Gospel  had  first been  revealed from  heaven in
this dispensation.  This awakened  in them the
most intense interest.  Sister  Eliza was deeply
affected when she first commenced speaking, in
recalling to mind the prophecies which had been
uttered  concerning  the  Lamanites,  and the
many remarks she had heard from the Prophet
himself.  She spoke about an hour, when Sisters
Hyde  and  Wells  also  addressed  them.  Bro.
Spencer, the  President,  and  Nephi, one  of the
Indians,  interpreted.  In the afternoon  there
was  a  re-organization  of  the  Relief Society of
that  place, the  former society having been dis-
organized  on  account  of  the  president moving
away.  Sister  Eliza assisted  Pres. Spencer and
Bishops Seeley and Tucker in the organization.
Mrs. L. Spencer was elected President, and the
Indians voted for her with apparent pleasure and
satisfaction. Mrs. Rebecca Tanner was elected
first counselor, and  Sister  Susan, a native wo-
man, Nephi’s wife, was elected second counselor.
She is probably the first Indian woman ordained
to  office  in  the  Relief Society.  Mary  Amelia
Seeley was chosen Secretary, and Rosanna Cox
Treasurer.  Pres. Spencer and  the  Bishops or-
dained the president and her Counselors and set
the Secretary apart.  The Lamanite sisters have
already  done  some  benevolent  work,  and  are
very persevering in piecing quilts and other simi-
lar labors.  Joseph, James, Nephi and one or two
others expressed themselves as delighted to see
the  sisters  and  hear  them  talk.  They  have
some  good,  substantial  log  houses,  with  furni-
ture, stoves, etc.;  they  have a very good crop of
grain, which they are now employed in harvest-
ing.  They have purchased some machinery for
farming  purposes, like  that  used  by  the  white
brethren.  The Lamanite sisters have learned to
cook  and wash  and  sew  and  make quite a neat
and  tidy appearance, and  it  is  easy to see will
improve  rapidly.  We returned  to  Fairview at
evening,  quite  pleased  with  our  first  mission
among the Indians.  On our way back we drove
over  to  Bro. Tanner’s farm, where they manu-
facture  large  quantities  of cheese; it is quite a
romantic  place,  almost  up  to  the mountain’s
edge. We  also  passed  some  curious  warm
springs, that are said  to  be very, healthful  and
invigorating to bathe in.
	Early on  Monday morning we  bade  farewell
to  Fairview  and  wended  our  course towards
Spring  City, passing through  and calling at Mt.
Pleasant on our way.  At Spring City we were
joined  by a carriage  load of sisters  from Manti.
Two meetings were held there, one with the chil-
dren, as we did in all the settlements we visited
while away except  two.  We all  enjoyed  our-
selves  very  much,  and  everybody  used their
best endeavors to  entertain  us hospitably and to
make us feel at home.
	From Spring City we went to Ephraim, where
we found  they had  arranged a public dinner, or
festival, in the Relief Society Hall.  Pres. Mai-
ben and wife and Bro. William Fulsom were at
Pres. Petersen’s when we arrived, and also Sister
M. F. C. Morrison, from Mt. Pleasant, and Sis-
ter  Goldsbrough, from  Nephi,  Sister  Irons,  of
Moroni, and  several sisters from  Spring  City,
were  also  of  the  party.  We have not time,
space, or language, to express in full our appre-
ciation  of the  good sisters’ entertainment; we
have  given  a  brief  description  of  the  affair,
which we sent from Ephraim the next day for
publication.  The  meetings  at  Ephraim  were
were well attended, notwithstanding  the  breth-
ren were harvesting  their hay and  grain  and
fighting grasshoppers.  The people have killed
these  troublesome  creatures  by  the  million;
ditches have been dug many miles in extent,
into which  they have driven the grasshoppers,
and these little pests lie several  feet in depth.
The oats and barley are all gone, but they will
probably  save a good proportion  of  the  wheat
crop.  Our  party remained  over  night in Eph-
raim, and  in  the  morning  rode  over  to Manti.
Pres. Petersen  and  his  wife  accompanied  the
party,  which  consisted  of sisters from several
settlements besides those from Salt Lake.
	We all reached Manti about eleven o’clock and
drove directly up to the Temple grounds,Brother
Fulsom  was  anticipating  the  arrival  and  was
ready  to  show  the  party  over the  place.  The
work has progressed  greatly since  our  visit  to
Sanpete just one  year ago.  It is  impossible to
define in language the feeling of solemnity which
impresses one, when standing in the presence of
a Temple of God, although  uncompleted,  upon
holy consecrated ground.  Only  those who have
true appreciation of the  great and mighty  work
to be performed for the  living and for the dead,
can understand  in  any  degree  the  awe  and
majesty  which  pervades one’s whole being in
these sacred places.  It is  as if the presence  of
those  departed,  with  whom  we  have been  as-
sociated in  the past  were  round  about,  urging
the living to faithfulness and the performance of
duty. The Temple grounds at Manti do in very
deed seem a hallowed  spot.  The  terraces  are
imposing in appearance and  add  much  to  the
magnificence of the structure.  The walls are up
some highth above the first row of windows, and
the terraces  are  63  feet  from  the street  with 3
rows of  stairs leading straight from terrace  to
terrace, and then dividing  to the right and left.
When these walls, which form the  terrace  work
are pointed and polished  with  hard  finish,  they
will be quite dazzling in beauty and can be seen
at a great distance.  The temple walls are three
and  a  half feet and  the  buttresses seven and a
half feet in thickness.  The foundation is built
of iron rock, so solid in its formation that it rings
like  iron itself.  The building rock is softer and
a creamy color.  The mortar is made of crushed
rock instead  of  sand;  a  machine  is  used for
crushing,  which  is  run  by  an engine.  It is
quite interesting to see it in operation.  We all
drove  over  to  the quarry in  the mountains,


short  distance  away;  and  it is really wonderful
that right there are all the materials most needed
in  the  erection  of  temples,  just  as  if  all had 
been arranged beforehand by the great Master-
Builder.  A great  deal of labor has been done, 
and much more remains to be accomplished, to 
finish the  temple;  but  the people deserve great
credit for their liberality  and  perseverance in
good works.  At Manti the sisters had decorated
the  meetinghouse  very tastefully  with  flowers
and evergreens.  Around the pillars which sup-
port the building  flowers and vines were grace-
fully  twined, and above the stand was the one 
word "Welcome," in large  letters  composed of 
flowers and green vines.  From Manti the route
was to Mayfield, passing  Pettyville on the way.
At  Mayfield Sister  Eliza  organized  the children
in  a  Primary  Association,  and  seventy-nine
members  were  enrolled.  Two  meetings  were
held there, and leaving  Mayfield  Sister  Hyde
was obliged to return to Mt. Pleasant to attend
the Quarterly Conference.  This was a source of
regret, but  the best  of  friends,  you know, must
sometimes part.  Gunnison was  the next  point
to make,  and we arrived just about sundown at
Bishop  Madsen's.  There  two  meetings  were
also held,  one of them with the children.  The
sisters have so far completed  the Relief Society
building that one large room  has  been  used for
meetings for the settlement  during  the  past
winter.  The  benches are  very  good  ones, and
cost the sisters quite a little sum.  The Relief
Society there  have  a  store which  brings  some
means into the Society treasury, but it is not as
well patronized as it should be.  They certainly
have been exceedingly industrious and energetic
to do what  they  have, and  the  brethren  have
been very liberal  in  donating  both  means and
labor.
From  Gunnison  the  route was  to  Fayette, a
small  town  which lies  towards Juab, a little out
of the line of travel, and consequently is seldom
visited  by people  from  the  city.  Here on the 
13th, one  meeting was held.  The good folks of
Fayette seemed greatly pleased to see the sisters,
and provided teams to go to Levan, a distance
of  twenty-six  miles  over  a  very  rough, dusty 
road. The other chapter  of  travel may be told
in the next number of the EXPONENT.


