HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE must apologize to the patrons and readers
of our little paper for not continuing the "Pen
Sketch of an Illustrious Woman," in this num-
ber. Having been away from the city and con-
stantly occupied it was not convenient to pre-
pare the manuscript.
	STAKE REPORTS WANTED.—A full Statistical
and Financial Report of Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Associations from their first or-
ganization up to Oct. 1, 1880, is specially request-
ed from each of the Stake Secretaries through-
out all the Stakes of Zion, by the President of
the central organization of Y. L. M. I. A. Sister
Elmina S. Taylor. Direct the reports to the
Secretary, Louie Wells, care of WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.
	WE have here Eliza R. Snow's Second Volume
of Poems, for sale, and the Correspondence of
the Palestine Tourists, each of them in cloth
and leather bindings. Price, in cloth, of volume
II of the poems, $1.25; in leather, $1.50. "Corres-
pondence of the Palestine Tourists," in cloth,
$2.00; in leather, $2.50. These books should be
in all the libraries of the Y. L. M. I. A. They
contain much valuable historical information
which should be in the possession of the young
people, children of the Latter-day Saints.
	WE also keep for sale at this office "Songs of
the Heart" by Hannah T. King, a poetical

[Column 2]
writer now very generally known to the people
of this Territory. These little books contain
many precious truths, and speak feelingly to the
human heart. Price 50 cents. We have also
Mrs. Emily B. Spencer's poems at the same
price, and although she is not so well known to
the public as Mrs. King, yet her name has ap-
peared quite often as a contributor in the col-
umns of the Exponent.
THE children of the Primary Association of
South Cottonwood have made a very neat pret-
ty air-castle of straw gathered from the fields,
and a few bright bits of woolen pieces, and have
sent it to this office as a token of their esteem
for the EXPONENT. We thank them most sin-
cerely for this specimen of their industry and
trust their ingenuity and ability may always be
properly directed, and that the time may come
when they may make such beautiful things,that
they will be sought after by the nations of the
earth, according to the prophecies of the ancients
concerning Zion and her people.
WE have on hand and for sale some hundreds
of copies of the two poems by O. F. Whitney,
entitled, "The Women of the Everlasting Cove-
nant" and "The Land of Shinehah." Every
sister at least should have a copy of them, as
the first is especially dedicated to them, and the 
second one, "The Land of Shinehah," is the
history of the rise and fall of Kirtland, the first
gathering place of the Saints in this dispensa-
tion. Price, 15 cents per copy. They will be
sent by mail to any part of the country if re-
quired.
	OUR readers have noticed no doubt the pub-
lication of a Primary Hymn Book for the child-
ren; this book is now ready for distribution. They 
are for sale at this office and at the Deseret
News office. Two copies for 25 cents, four for
50 cents. eight for $1, and a copy should be
placed in the hands of each child that they may
have a hymn book of their own. Sister Eliza
has done all her work for nothing, and she has
been careful in selecting and arranging the
hymns. Having given her time and labor,
there is barely the paper, the printing and the
binding to pay for, and no one is enriched by the
profits except the purchaser. Seven thousand
copies are ready and the work sterotyped so that
more can be furnished when ever they are
needed.


