IN MEMORIAM.
	
	With feelings  of  sorrow which  no  words can
express, we are  called  upon  to  mourn  the loss
here on earth of a beloved  friend  and  relative,
the daughter of our eldest sister, a very  beauti-
ful and interesting young woman. 
	Mrs. Carrie Granger Snyder, died in Atchison,
Kansas, of diphtheria, Sunday evening, July 25,
1880, aged 27 years, 4 months and 3  days.  Her
sufferings  were  most  intense  for about two
weeks, and she lay for days at the very threshold
of death  before  passing  away.  Her patience,
fortitude and resignation were most remarkable,
still she was anxious to live, and  she had every-
thing to bind her to life.  A  loving  and tender
husband to  whom she was most  fondly attach-
ed, two precious little boys, one a mere babe, and
she  was  a  most  devoted  mother;  a  widowed
mother who had seen almost all her family "pass
over  beyond to the other shore," all these were
powerful incentives for one so young and affec-
tionate, but notwithstanding her anxiety to live
for usefulness and those she loved,  God willed it
otherwise, and He knows best. 
	" 'Tis sad to part with those we dearly love,
    But parting comes to all," 
	Yes, parting comes to all, and those who have
felt its woe know how to pity others and truly


sympathize;  but time is  the only great healer of
wounds, save  One to whom all may go and lay
their burdens  down,  and  He  will  give  them
sweet aud holy consolation.
	Carrie Granger,  the  subject  of  this  memoir,
was born in Hardwick, Mass., March 22nd, 1853.
Her parents were Henry H. and Lucy M. Gran-
ger.  Her  father  was  a  captain  in  the  Union
army, and was killed  in  battle  in the late war.
She was carefully educated with a view to teach.
Miss Granger came  to  Salt  Lake City  in  1873,
and was  employed  as  a  teacher  here  in Miss
Cook’s School in the Social Hall  for a time, and
afterwards six  months in the district  school  in
the Ninth  Ward  of  this city.  She  was greatly
beloved  by  her  pupils,  in  whom she took the
deepest interest.
		“Other positions of
		Responsibility, as well as those
		Of wife and mother, she has nobly filled.”
	She had an active and vigorous mind and was
most  desirous of being useful  in assisting  to pro-
mote all good works.  She was ever ready to ad-
minister to the poor and needy around her, and
many secret acts  of  kindness  and  charity were
performed by her unostentatiously while she so-
journed among the Saints.
	She will be sincerely mourned by a large circle
of friends and relatives, both here and in Massa-
chusetts, as well as where she had resided for the
past three years previous to her death, Atchison,
Kansas.
	Farewell, dear one, till  we  meet again in that
better land, “where there  is  no more sorrow or
parting for evermore.”			E. B. W.


