WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE Empress Eugenie will spend the Autumn
at her beautiful home on Lake Constance.

	THE noble and beloved Princess Louise is
compelled to return to England to recruit her
failing health, and it is generally believed that
her husband the Marquis of Lorne governor
general of Canada, will resign his position in
order to remain with his wife.

	A&nbsp;STENOGRAPHER sat at a telephone sev-
enty-eight miles from Elmira, a recent Sunday,
and took down the sermon of Thomas K.
Beecher, who was preaching in his own pulpit
at Elmira.

	A young girl fourteen years of age the
daughter of an officer at the capital "Our
Arctic Domain" is said to be the youngest
official in the Post Office Department. She
is post-mistress at Sit-ka, Alaska.


PLYMOUTH, forty  miles  from Boston, Mass.,
famous for the  landing of the Pilgrims  in  the
bleak  month  of  December,  1620,  is  at  the
present  time  a  thriving  town  of  seven  thou-
sand inhabitants, three or four miles in length,
but  very  narrow,  comparatively,  in  width.
There  are  many very  elegant residences  over-
looking  the harbor. “Under a granite canopy
is the identical rock where landed in the bleak
winter, two  hundred  and  sixty  years  ago, a
band of exiles, who  had  moored their bark on
the  wild New England shore.” A building is
now in process  of  re-construction on the  main
street, which  is  to  be  devoted  to  the  sacred
relics of the first  settlers. “An elliptical  en-
closure is near, containing a large boulder broken
off  from  Plymouth Pock, on  which is chiselled
out  the  never-to-be-forgotteu date,  1620,  while
in the festoons  of  the iron railing surrounding
it  are  engraven  the  immortal  names  of the
forefathers.” The national monument, the me-
morial  of  the “toils, sacrifices  and sufferings”
of these  renowned  Pilgrims,  is  situated on an
elevated site  which  overlooks  the  harbor, and
when  completed will  be “a model  of beauty,”
as well  as  of  honor,  to  those  brave,  heroic,
self-denying  men  and  women  who  left  home,
friends  and  country to  obtain “civil and reli-
gious liberty” for  themselves  and  their  pos-
terity, and  all  who  should  come  to  them for
protection from tyranny and oppression.


THE SUMMER  SOLSTICE.--One great reason
why hot weather  is  so debilitating lies  in  the
fact  that  the  body is exhausted  by the labors
of the  year.  Indeed,  it  is  natural  that this
should be so.  In order, therefore, to resist this
tendency to exhaustion it  only  becomes neces-
sary  to  re-invigorate  the  body,  which  can
readily  be done by one or two bottles of War-
ner's Safe Tonic.  This remedy is being  exten-
sively used  by  physicians for  this  purpose, and
is for sale by druggists in all parts of the world.

