REPORTS.

	The Sisters meeting in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms August 14,1880 Mrs M. I. Horne
presiding, was a very interesting one. Minutes
were read by the Young Ladies of the branch
associations of Y. L. M. I. A., and also by the
Secretaries of the Primary Associations. The
meeting was addressed by Mrs. Hannah G.
Perkins of St. George Mrs Aurelia S Rogers
of Farmington, also by President M. I. Horne'
Counselors Zina D. Young, Sarah M. Kimball
and Bathsheba W. Smith. Other sisters made
remarks and Mrs. Jane Connsill read an orig-
inal poem, entitled "The Past Present and
Future.

	The Relief Society of Freemont Valley,
Piute Co., was organized March 25, 1880, by our


worthy Bishop, E. H. Blackburn, the following
officers were elected: Martha Allred, President;
Leah  Blackburn  and Mary  Ellett, Counselors;
Matilda  E.  Okerlund,  Secretary;  Anna  M.
Young,  Treasurer.
Our  Relief  Society  numbers  thirty-eight
members;  we  hold our meetings once a month,
and  considering  our  scattered  condition the
meetings are  well  attended, and we  enjoy the
Spirit  of  God.  We  can  truly say  our  Presi-
dent  is a  good woman  and  very  punctual  in
attending  to  her  duty.  We  wish  to  be  one
with our sisters, and we hope and trust that we
may ever  be alive to the  duties  and  responsi-
bilities that rest upon us, and are thankful that
we  have  a great  and  glorious  work.  Your  sister
in the Gospel,
			M. E. OKERLUND, Sec'y.
Relief Society report  of  Brigham  City, Ari-
zona, for the  year ending May 20, 1880: Mem-
bers enrolled, 31;  an examination of  our finan-
ces shows  an  amount  in  our  treasury of  nine
dollars in  cash  and four dollars and fifty cents
in  sundries;  we  have  donated  to  the  Manti
Temple fifteen dollars, and a quilt to the Logan
Temple, price  three dollars;  disbursements  in
cash, twelve dollars.
We are still trying to live according to the 
precepts of our most holy religion.  The  EX-
PONENT is still one of our most  welcome  visit-
tors, for which  we  are  truly thankful, and we
ever wish to  be  numbered with our sisters in
every good word and work.
		MARTHA CURTIS, Ass't Sec'y.
The Primary Association  of Hyrum  held a
Quarterly meeting  July  9,  in  the meeting
house, President Lucy Wilson presiding.  Pres-
ent on the stand were I. C. Thorsen, C. M. Ol-
sen, C. Liljenquist, President of the Relief So-
ciety, and  others.  After  the  usual  opening
exercises  the  meeting  was  occupied  by  the
children  in  recitations,  select  readings and
songs.
 The house  was  crowded, every  one  seemed
to be filled with  joy and gratitude towards the
children, to hear  them sing and recite so beau-
tifully.  I thought if there were  no  children
in heaven I should not want to be there.
Elder  I.  C. Thorsen  gave  some  good teach--
ings on  the  Ten  Commandments, followed by
C. F. Olsen  and  C. Liljenquist.  Rewards  of
merit  were  then  distributed  to  the  children,
after which a picnic  and party were given, un-
der the able  management of Lucy Wilson, the
President. All enjoyed themselves exceedingly
well, and  it  will  be a day long  to  be  remem-
bered by the children.
