DELIVERED BY MRS. A. M. ROMNEY.

		ST. GEORGE,  July 24th, 1880.
	Brethren and Sisters: It is with pride that
I rise to speak in behalf of my young sisters of
the Y. L. M. I. A., of St., George. Not because
I feel able to properly and interestingly repre-
sent them but because I love their Society; ad-
mire their interested labors in regard to the
onward progress of these latter times, their
virtues, and their Love of Truth.
	It is now some four years since our first As-
sociation was organized with Miss E. A. Snow,as
President, and Elida Snow, Hannah Fawcette,
A. M. Woodbury, Elizebeth Starr, Juie Ivins,
Margret Jarvis and Amelia Crosby, as Counse-
lors; and Sister Artimissa Snow, Superinten-
dent. 
	This continued for about one year; and was
attended with considerable sucess. We edited
a paper called "The Young Lady's Diadem,"

[Column 2]

which was a source of imformation; and tended
towards general improvement.
	This paper contains some of the first efforts
in composition of many of our Young Sisters;
some of whom are now honorable wives and
happy mothers; who look back with pleasure to
their associations with the first Improve-
ment Association organized in St. George for
Young Ladies.
	When we allow our thoughts to wander back
to those days, how well we remember the nerv-
ous trepidation, the heart beating, the nervous-
ness, the burning cheek, the fearfulness of each
other we displayed, in making our first efforts
in speech making, or listening to the editress
read our first essays: and, Oh dear! how we did
feel when we ourselves had to rise on our feet,
and read the paper, we had had the honor to
superintend! how our limbs did tremble! how
the perspiration did ooze from our heated
temples! how something would rise up in our
throats, that seemed determined to choke or
make us dumb? and, when we did find utter-
ance, how strange our voices sounded in our
ears, and how thankful, yes, how very thankful,
we were, when, "Our heavy task was o'er."
No doubt my hearers have all, to a greater or
less extent, experienced these very feelings
sometime in their early youth, and first appear-
ance before the public.
	Soon after our Stake was organized, our As-
sociation was divided into four branches. One
in each ward. And still later a stake organ-
ization was effected with our worthy sister, E.
Snow Ivins, as President; Mary G. Whitehead
and A. S. Segmiller, as Counselors. The good
that these associations have accomplished, will
be felt in society in years that are yet far in the 
future; when the young sisters shall have become
mothers of worthy sons and daughters; whose
influence will be felt in every land where the
Gospel can be preached. And the youth, who
go abroad to preach the Gospel, while referring
with pride to their dear mothers at home, will
be able to say, my mother always attended the
Y. L. M. I. A., where she was taught to honor
God, and attained a high state of moral cul-
ture. 
	My Young Sisters, much has already been
accomplished, but there is a wide field for im-
provement before us. Improvement of our-
selves; and O! how useful we may be in sus-
taining, aiding and encouraging others to im-
prove. We should prize, virtue, as the grand
acme of our lives. Our honor should be more
precious to us than fine jewels, or the wealth
of the Indies. We should always be the ex-
ponents of truth: both in precept and by our
example. We should never be the slaves of
fashion, especially slaves to the foolish fashions
that come from "Old Babylon." No sisters,
our faith, the faith for which our honored sis-
ters and beloved mothers have suffered so much,
proclaims against this evil of the age. Slaves to
fashion! Let it be the object of our lives, to rise
above the evils that are leading the children of
men to perdition. That the young ladies of
the M. I. A., may rise above these things, and
become examples in Israel,and shining lights to
the world, standing side by side, with their
fathers, brothers, husbands and sons, as expon-
ents of the glorious effects of the true Gospel
upon a fallen generation: being as determined
to maintain all that is virtuous, honorable and
Godlike in its nature, as was Leonidas and his
band in defending their nation. And although
our place is not the battle field nor the pulpit,

[Column 3]

our influence may be used gently, and for great
good around the fireside. There we can instil
true priuciples into the mind of the prattling
child, and use an influence in forming the char-
acter of Zion's future greatness.
	In conclusion, we feel to congratulate all up-
on the return of this, another anniversary of
our entrance into these peaceful vales;  where
peace prevails! Where the nucleus of a great
people exists. And may our goodness increase,
as our land becomes more thickly inhabited.
That joy, peace and good will from man and
woman may flow from heart to heart, until a
bond of brotherhood and sisterly feeling exists
throughout this land which "Is choice above
all other lands:" and woman enjoys her proper
sphere, as the helpmeet of man. And men's
good judgment will cause them to seek a wife,
from the growing ranks of the, Y. L. M. I. As-
sociation.


