WOMAN,S VOICE.
MT. CARMEL, Kane  Co., Utah,
May 31, 1880
	Is it a burthen or a blessing to  keep the Word
of Wisdom, and pay  tithing?  I can  truthfully
answer for one, there is  nothing that I know of
that gives a greater comfort and  consolation to
our consciences at all times than  to observe the
Word of Wisdom, and to pay  tithing, is most as-
suredly the  very  road to  prosperity.  In  fact
there is not one commandment  given  us from
our Heavenly Father through  the great Latter-
day Prophet Joseph Smith, but gives satisfaction
to our conscience if we, with  a  willing  heart
and determined  will  embrace  and  practice it.
Why, then are we so  slow  to obey command-
ments  that  most  certainly  will  prove  great
blessings for us, not only here, but also hereafter,
yea, through all eternity.  And this life with its
little comforts, O, how short and  uncertain it is.
Well then, let us stop for a moment  and  reflect
and ask ourselves how we  would  feel  to-day or
any other day if some one would come and say to
us as I was once told  in a dream:  "Make haste!
Put on your white  garments  and  go  out  and
meet Him, the Savior  is  coming." Let  us  ask
ourselves how would  we feel?  If  we  had  not
even made  an  attempt  to  obey  all  his com-
mandments, would not our consciences smite us?
Would we not with a  blushing  face say to our-
selves:  "How  dare I put pure white  garments
on, and try thereby  to  deceive  Him, when we
know that He can see our most secret thoughts
and know that we have neglected to try to keep
his commands, can we?  Can  we  put  palms of
victory, not even in the smallest thing?"  O, what
a terrible feeling this would be.  How would  we
not fear being  cast  out?  But  if we  had  tried
our best to keep all his commandments, would
not our hearts abound with joy and praise to God
for determined will  to do our duties, when they
were plain, and our consciences were as pure as
our garments.  Some may say, "What is the use?
We cannot be perfected  in  this  life, any way."
The  careless  always  have an excuse for every-
thing;  but  when  we stand at the gates of death,
we will see it in another light, instinctively; we
will then wish with  all  our  hearts that we had
done better in everything,  for  according to our
works we will be judged.
	Well, then,  my dear,  beloved  sisters, let us,
each and every one, through  this  our  "year of
energy and diligence,  of  every  commandment,
and try our best to please  our Heavenly Father
in everything, Yes! even  in  all  our thoughts,
words and deeds, that we may set an example
worthy of imitation  for  the  young  and  rising
generation;  that we  may not  see  them  rise up
against us in a  day to come and  say,  "Had not
your bad example been  before me I might have
been saved to day,  or  at  least  been  higher  in
glory than I am."  Oh! how much depends upon
our determination of  will  to  keep  the  com-
mandments of God, and  all  that can be said  in
two words, Obey God, and  do  to  others  as you
wish to be done unto. Let us do this  and  truly
prepare ourselves  through this the "year of jubi-
lee," for better and  greater  things,  and hence-
forht, that we may  be worthy of  the  thousand
years of jubilee in the presence of the Lord is the
humble prayer and  desire of  your  sister  in the
gospel, J.S.V. WENNERHOLM.
	ST. DAVID,  San  Pedro River,  Pima Co.,
		Arizona, July 11th, 1880.
Dear Sister Wells:
	We thought some  of  the many readers of the
EXPONENT would like to know how  we are get-
ting along in this far off country, so we will try
and send you a short account of  our Relief Soci-
ety.  We are trying to do something to assist in
the great work we are all engaged in.  We held
our Second Annual Meeting  April  22nd,  1880.
Our reports were all read, showing that we have
accumulated during  the  year  $63.75;  disbursed
during  the  year  $34;  donated  to  the Temple
$11.50;  balance in the  treasury  of  $18.25.  Our
Society members  number  13;  teachers  three.
The EXPONENT comes  to  us  very  regular, and
is read with pleasure both by the old and  young,
for it is a great help to us as well  as  a  comfort,
isolated as we are  from  the  main  body of  the
Church.  Our meetings are very well attended;
we hold our  General  Meetings  once  a  month,
and sewing meetings  once  in two  weeks.  Our
Society has started  a  store on a small scale, but
we  hope  to  increase  Brothers McDonald and
David Kimball  here from  Salt River a few
weeks ago.  We  had  a  time  of  rejoicing, they
gave us much  good  instruction, among  the rest
President McDonald advised the  Relief  Society
to get what means they could, with the  help  of
the brethren, and start a Store, so that we could
get things cheaper than we can  by all  running
to different stores.  The health of  our company
is good  except  colds  among  the  children,  our
President's daughter  is  very sick;  she has been
afflicted for years, she is so anxious to regain her
health that I  wish  it  were  possible for  her to
have sufficient faith, but she is  in  the hands of
the Lord, as we all are.  We feel like improving
in all things pertaining to the building up of the
Kingdom of God on the earth.  Praying for the
welfare of  all  the  organizations,  which  are
helps in Zion.  We remain your sisters,
C. MERRILL,
