				THORNDIKE, Aug. 1, 1880.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	My Dear Mother—I have waited long and pa-
tiently for you to answer my last letter, and al-
though I well remember my promise to write
you something, I had made up my mind not to;
but my visit to Orange changed my mind, and
for fear I might forget some of the scenes I visit-
ed in New Salem, I will give them to you now.
All those places that are dear to your heart as
the home of your childhood, possessed too, a
strong interest for me. I have visited as many
of them as my time allowed.
	The little schoolhouse on Chestnut Hill, where
first you trained the youthful mind, is torn down,
and another and smarter one built across the
road, to accommodate the growing wants of the
village, but the foundation stones and some of
the boards are still to be seen, and the brook
close by still rushes on and on. As we rode
along the beautiful woodland drive, many farm-
houses and different places were pointed out to
me, that were, and still are, dear to your remem-
brance. Among them the house where you
boarded when you taught in the little red school-
house. The yard is full of old-fashioned flowers,
and an old grindstone and bench stand in the
front yard, that I think must be the same ones
that graced it when you were familiar with the
place; I am sure the same old well, with its long
sweep and wooden bucket, is still in use. I
wanted to go in and see if the floors were sanded
as I have heard you say they were of old, but
three little tow-heads at the window reminded
me that the old folks who lived there thirty-five
years ago, when you boarded with them, were
not the same who now occupied the premises,
so I restrained my curiosity and drove on past
Grandma Haskell's home, which is nicely kept
up I think, considering its age. Poor old lady!
to think what a home she left here, and of her
life and death in the Far West, seems very sad
to me, and must have been a great change to
her. Next was Dr. Andrews—your old family
doctor. His son, or rather one of them, resides
there now, and the place looks neat and thriving.
Then we came to the Whittaker Place, which is
still very beautiful; I couldn't help but wonder
whether the present occupant of the premises
ever allowed visitors more than a look in her
parlors, unless they came from Boston. I gazed
up at the garret windows, and almost expected
to see some little rosy-cheeked girl with a rag
baby in her arms gazing out at us. I remember
so well what you have so often told us, how you
played there with one of the Whittaker girls, in
that very garret, with broken dishes and dolls.
	I think the country round about here must be
much as it was when you left it, except that
places have some of them run down that were
well kept in those days. The church you used
to attend is still standing, and in a good state of
preservation, but not in use at the present time;
and across the road from it is the schoolhouse
where you used to go to school, still standing,
and is still used for the same purpose, with all
the original furniture. Here I got out and looked
in; I wanted to see the very seat you occupied
when you formed those ambitious projects to be-
come a literary lady, for 1 certainly suppose it
was there, in early girlhood, such ideas were
formed. The master's desk remains intact. Do
you remember it? And the queer little wood
stove in the center of the room, with quaint,
old-fashioned desks and seats on all sides of it;
they (the desks) are notched thick with names;
I wondered if any of them would be recogniza-
ble by you. I think so. It seemed to me a
sacred spot.&nbsp;I stood&nbsp;on the old play-ground,
where you had often played, perhaps even
romped in girlish glee, and tears started to my
eyes in spite of me. A little further on stands
the house where Uncle H. was born, and your
first home in&nbsp;Salem. It is old, and gray, and
vacant, at present, but the sweet fragrance of
pinks and sweet williams and all sorts of old
time flowers, filled the air as we rode by. The
Juniper tree is grown large and beautiful, that
stands at the front of the house; Aunt said it
was only a little one when you went away.
	And next we come to your girlhood home, or
rather the site of it, for the house which I have
heard you say was a century old when you lived
there, has fallen down and gone to decay; but I
sat on the front doorstep, under the shade of
the apple tree, that your dear mother planted,
which is now large and thrifty, and gazed on
the same beautiful hills, covered&nbsp;with verdure
of every shade of green, and lovely in every re-

[Column 2]
spect, as you have done many times in years
gone by. The brook where you used to go and
bathe your face, and listen to its ripple, and talk
to&nbsp;yourself, and where my uncles fished for
trout when little boys, still dances along in the
sunlight, as bright and happy, to all appearances,
as though there were no changes or sorrows in
this world; its banks are lined with the softest,
greenest moss, and ferns grow there in wild pro-
sion. I plucked a few for you, little mother. The
hemlock grove just beyond is as romantic as
when you sat under the graceful, sweeping
boughs of those old trees, and the perfume is
just as fresh.
	The old well next called my attention, and I
had, of course, to draw a bucket of water and
drink from it. The neighbors still use it, and
Aunt Pallas and Delia both said it was wonder-
fully sweet and cool; it tasted better to me than
any nectar.
	Dear Ma, I'll try and remember to tell you all
you want to know.	*	*	*	Start home to-
morrow. Love and kisses to all. I wrote Aunt
Lucy by this mail; have heard the sad intelli-
gence of cousin Carrie's death.
			Lovingly,
								MELL.


