PUBLIC DINNER AT EPHRAIM.

	The Teachers of the Relief Society of Eph-
raim under the supervision of President Sarah
Peterson and her Counselors,Ellen Madsen, and
Ellen Dorius; gave a public dinner in the Soci-
ety Hall in that place Tuesday August 10,1880.
The dinner was given in honor of the visit of
Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, and E. B. Wells,
Mary A. Hyde President R. S. Sanpete Stake
and her Counselors. The Presidents and Coun-
selors of all the branches in the Stake were in-
vited to be present. The room was beautifully
decorated with flowers and vines garlanded and
festooned. The word welcome, in large letters
painted in imitation of green leaves was put
up at each end of the room, and on the wall on
each side a handsome garland of flowers and
vines wound gracefully together was hung
in a festoon in the center of which was the
letters E. R. S.. for Eliza R. Snow on one side
and E. B. W., for E. B. Wells on the other.
The whole presented a charming appearance;
bouquets of flowers were scattered about here
and there, but the smiling faces and the cordial
greeting of kind friends, warm-hearted brethren
and sisters was the most interesting of all.
Three tables were set the whole length of the
hall, at the head of the table in the center of
the room was seated President C. Peterson and
Brother Wm. Fulsom. Pres. John Maiben and
many local brethren were on one side of the
table and opposite were Sisters E. R. Snow
Smith, E. B. Wells, M. A. Hyde, Amelia
Goldsbrough, Deborah Irons, M. F. C. Morri-
son, Phebe Maiben and others. The other two
tables were filled, nearly 200 persons were
seated. To enumerate the variety of dishes
with which the tables were supplied would be
impossible, but suffice to say it was a feast of
good things. All the widows in the two wards
were invited to partake of the bountiful repast.
Brother Fulsom asked the blessing and the din-
ner passed off pleasently. We thank the good
sisters of Ephraim for the honor conferred and
the courtesy extended to the sisters visiting
them, and shall ever remember with feelings of
pleasure and gratitude their kind attention
their happy faces and the good spirit we felt
in their midst.
