NOTES AND NEWS.

	GENERAL Grant will visit Boston the last of
September. He is to be the guest of the Mid-
dlesex Club. At the reception and banquet
to be given in his honor, it is expected all the
New England governors and other men of
rank and influence will be assembled.

	GEORGE Bancroft will shortly complete his
history of the United States. He has been en-
gaged upon it fifty-five years. October 3d he
will have lived full four score years, and it is
said is "hale and handsome, fond of society,
and a familiar figure in it at Newport.

	THE movement for the higher education of
women at Oxford University has been so suc-
cessful that it is necessary to enlarge Somer-
ville Hall. A meeting conducted by Lord
Aberdare has just been held in London, for
the purpose of providing for the enlargement.
—Ex.

	A LETTER mailed fifty years ago was found,
while some repairs were being made in the
Paris Post Office, in one of the panels of the
wood-work, where it had stuck instead of slip-
ping into the box. Upon investigating it was
ascertained the writer had long since died, but
the person to whom it was addressed was still
alive, and the letter was forwarded to its desti-
nation.—Ex.

	THE ancients had queer ideas about mourn-
ing for the dead. The Egyptian women ran
through the streets crying, with their bosoms
exposed and their hair disordered. The Ly-
cians regarded mourning as unmanly, and they
compelled men who went into mourning to put
on female garments. In Greece, when a popu-
lar general died, the whole army cut off their
hair and the manes of their horses. At the
present day the Arabian women stain their
hands and feet with indigo, which they suffer
to remain eight days. They also carefully ab-
stain from milk during this time, on the ground
that its white color does not accord with the
gloom of their minds. In China, the mourn-
ing color is white. Mourning for a parent or
husband is required there by a law, under a
penalty of sixty blows and a year's banishment.
When the Emperor dies, all his subjects let
their hair grow for a hundred days. In the
Fiji Islands, on the tenth day of mourning,
the women scourge all the men except the
highest.—Ex.


