A GOOD WIFE.
You speak of your "good wife" my brother,
You praise her, and well you may,
For a better one never lived, man,
Than blesses your heart to-day.
At home in the working kitchen,
At home in the parlor fine:
And a mother, that is a mother,
To all the dear children of thine.
Her home is her precious castle,
Her law is her husband's love,
And she owns no other, allegiance,
Except to her God above.
And I thought when I heard her singing
Her lullaby songs this morn,
That no sweeter purer music,
Could e'er on the winds be borne.
This Jewel (a wife's devotion)
This gem in its setting bright,
Is to home, with its sweet surroundings
A steady unfading light.
No trials will dim its beauty,
No poverty quench its ray,
I tell you, nothing but cold neglect
Will cause it to pass away.
Then think of it, wives and husbands!
Oh! think of it oft! with care
For, God has joined you together
Not to live in doubt and fear--
You have married and asked God's blessing
You have chosen for weal or woe,
And it is within your compass
To make your home Heaven below.
			SISTER PLUNKET.
Van Hornesville, N. Y., June 3rd, 1880.


[Column 1]
NOTES ON EARLY ENGLISH LITERA-
TURE.

	A nation lives twenty, thirty centuries and
longer and a man lives but sixty or seventy
years, and yet there are many instances in
which a nation resembles man, for in a career
so long and almost interminable, a nation has a
mental and moral character which develops
itself from epoch to epoch, preserving the
same fundamental qualities from its origin to
its decline.
	In the literature of a nation we have its por-
traits. The Canterbury Tales, dramatic works,
of the Renaissance and the Reformation, the
various lines of authors in prose and verses
who have followed each other from Shakes-
peare and Bacon, down to Dickens, Tennyson
and Carlyle, place before us all literary forms
and poetic images, the variations of thought,
sentiment and expression in which the soul of
the English nation has found delight Among
all people the earliest form of literature is the
Ballad. The oldest of all British poems, or
indeed of all modern European writings are
some Irish ballads, found in the Annalists and
ascribed to the first century. Yet our litera-
ture does not begin with the Irish,but the Sax-
sons a gluttonous, barbaric people. What do
we expect of their literature? We find it as we
thought filled with carnage, torture, and all
kinds of horrible deeds and butcherly in-
stincts; for instance, "The daughter of the Da-
nish Jarl, seeing Egil taking his seat near her,
regards him with scorn, reproaching him with
seldom having provided the wolves with hot
meat, with never having seen for a whole
Autumn,the raven croaking after the carnage."
"But Egil seized her and pacified her by singing,
I have marched with my bloody sword, and
the raven has followed me. Furiously we
fought, the fire passed over the dwellings of
men; we slept in the blood of those who kept
the gates." From such talk and such maiden
fancies you may judge of the rest.
	Under this native barbarism there were noble
dispositions such as Magnurson, Morris and
Thorpe whose poems are legends of Gods and

[Column 2]
Goddesses, unknown worlds, monsters, serpents
&c. Their legends are sad and grand and
bear witness of heroes and warriors. One
poem and two or three fragments are all that
remain of this poetry of England. The rest of
the Pagan current was overwhelmed, first by
the influx of Christian religion,then by the con-
quest of the Norman French. But the rem-
nant suffices to show the strange poetic genius
of the race.
	Christianity took root owing to natnral affin-
ities but it did not change the native genius.
There was a conquest which brought new ideas,
different men. In the course of six centuries
the Saxons had multiplied enormously; they
were now about two millions and the Norman
army numbered sixty thousand. Although
history tells us the Normans conquered the
Saxons we may well reverse it. For in vain
did the Normans import their manners, poesy
and language, in three years the conquerors
themselves were conquered. Their language
was English, and owing to frequent intermarri-
ages the English blood ended by gaining the
predominance over the Norman blood in their
veins.
	The literature of the Normans consisted of
barbarous and childish sentiments unable to
develop a continuous idea, confused and in-
conplete phrases after the fashion of the ancient
Saxon. Among these writers were Robert of
Brunne, and Robert of Gloucester, who had
the faculty of easy narration without deep em-
otion. They garnished with rhymes their his-
tories and dissertations, and called them poems.
They wrote a "Prick of the Conscience" and
such pieces of which the titles alone make one
shudder, what of the text? I will give you an
illustration,

"Mankynde mad ys to do Godduss wylle
And alle hys biddyngs to fulfylle,
For of alle Hys makyng more or less
Man most principal creature es
Al that He made, for man hit was done
As H[--]shal here after sonne."

	Ther[-] is a poem which if properly named
we could call a sermon. Here and there we
find divergences, more or less awkward, into
the domain of genius. No one has ever spoken
so well to the ladies as the French and they
do not forget this, when they are settled in
England.
	There are some very pretty verses of English
rhymsters praising their earthly mistresses.
They compare their ladies to all kinds of pre-
cious stones and flowers. They bring into this
northern clime the lively and warm imagina-
tion of the south. Like the troubadours they
spoke of lovely Springtime with its birds and
flowers &.
	They have glowing pictures such as the Ital-
ians wrote but perhaps richer and livelier be-
cause the poet found here for inspiration that
love of country life, which in England is deep
and national. As we read the literature of this
day, knights and ladies, dwarfs, giants, fairies,
dragons, earthquakes and magicians, pass be-
fore us in a highly colored, much distorted
panorama.
	The Romances relating to King Arthur are
ve[-]y interesting and many of our modern poets
have founded their legends on these old tales.
The names of the false knight Lancelot, Merlin
the enchanter, and many others familiar to
those who have read the Idylls of the King
constantly occur in the Romances of Arthur.
	The best known of the Norman French poets
is Wace. His best poems are "Brut d'Agrgle-
terre" and "Roman de Rose." The former is a
translation of Geoffrey of Monmouth's History
of Britain. The latter, The Romance of Rollo,
which narrates the history of the Dukes of
Normandy from Rollo to the sixteenth year of
Henry the second. The principal feature of
this poem is the minute account of the Battle

[Column 3]
of Hastings. There are two other Anglo
Norman romancers,which should be named,not
so much for the excellence of their verse as for
their prominence in English History. Cardin-
al Stephen Langton aud Richard Coenr de
Lion. The first composed some very pretty
French songs, the latter several military poems.
During the middle ages the literature of Eng-
land, indeed of all Europe, lay in the hands of
the monks and minstrels. The monks sat in
their cells and wrote long manuscripts on The-
ology. The minstrels wandered around singing
ballads of love. All these were barren endeav-
ors, the Norman literature was content to copy,
the Saxon bore no fruit. A definite language
was nevertheless attained and there was room
for a great writer, Geoffrey Chaucer appeared.
He was inventive and original though a transla-
tor. He had life, energy, education, genius
and above all was enabled to satisfy the chival-
ric world the splendid courts in which he lived.
Though learned and versed in all the branches
of scholastic knowledge he was a man of the
world and a man of action. Now in the four-
teenth century we have a man, so great that
we call him Father of English poetry, and well
does he wear that name. Consider his subjects.
How does he select them. He goes far and
wide to Italy, France, the popular legends and
the ancient classics. He makes it a business
to provide fine tastes. Ask him his subject
and he answers Love. It is the most pleasing
subject fitted to make the evening hours flow
sweetly. First he translated the Roman de la
Rose in which the course of true love is very
finely depicted. The piece is filled with beauti-
ful descriptions of May Months, flowery earth,
green hedgerows, portraits of smiling ladies and
gallant knights relieved by true sad characters
minutely described,
	There are castles, landscapes, dances, all in
lively sparkling colors contrasted and displayed
ever renewed and varied so as to entertain the
sight. Chaucer's fame as a writer rests chiefly
upon his Canterbury tales. The idea of which
is perhaps borrowed from the Decameron of
Boccoccio, in which a hundred tales are sup-
posed to be told after dinner, by the persons
spending ten days in a country house near
Florence during a time of plague. His plan is
this; some twenty-nine or thirty pilgrims collect
at the Tabbard Inn, in Southwark bound for
the shrine of St. Thomas A. Becket at Canter-
bury.
	The gathering contains specimens of nearly
every character then common in the streets and
homes of England. After the prologue has
described the company, a brav[-] knight
bronzed by the Syrian sun, tells the first tale
then follows the miller, dronken of ale, and so
the tale goes round often merry but sometimes
sad. Each pilgrim ought to tell two or more
stories,one going to Canterbury, and two more
on the homeward way and the whole proceed-
ings to be wound up with a supper at the Tab-
bard Inn where the teller of the best tales was
to be entertained by the rest of the band. The
poet did not live to complete his design, only
twenty-four tales are given. The arrival at
Canterbury, the scenes at the shrine,the tales of
the return, the wind-up supper, all are untold.
	Nothing could surpass the Canterbury tales
as a series of pictures of the middle class Eng-
lish life during the fourteenth century.
	Most of Chaucer's minor and earlier works are
translated from French, Latin or Italian.
	"The Court of Love" and "Troillus" and "Cres-
sida" are poems attributed to his college days.
	"The House of Fame," The legend of Good
Women in which some passages from the lives
of Cleopatra, Dido,Ariadne and others of classic
renown are given together with a beautiful
little allegory entitled the flower and the leaf
are poems of special beauty and worthy of
high praise. [handwritten] Annie [-]. Lew.[---]


