WOMAN'S POSITION.

	The duty of mothers is one of great impor-
tance, when we investigate it in its proper light.
Woman's mission on the earth&nbsp;is a great one,
none can deny it. To bear the souls of men
and women is indeed something noble and holy,
although so little realized by young mothers.
Then for this divine mission, woman should re-
ceive the highest qualifications, have the
grandest opportunities of education, and pos-
sessing pure and intelligent minds, what should
be the training of our daughters, who are to
be mothers? Can too much be done to en-
lighten their minds? They should be taught
from their earliest years to qualify themselves
to become worthy mothers, and capable of
choosing wisely a companion who is to be the
father of the immortal souls of their offspring.
Who but woman forms the infant mind? Then
let woman strive for knowledge, that she may
bring forth children of intelligence, fit to be-
come heads of families, statesmen; or rulers.
Woman, study to know thyself. Study to
know good from evil.
	Women are accountable, rational beings,
Without woman's influence chaos would reign
triumphant in the earth. Eve became the
mother of all living. Man actually became
dependent upon the creation of woman. She
was constituted for the companion of man, to
be one with him in all things; there can be no
elevated women without noble men. Knowl-
edge, when rightly used, hurts no one. No
wonder society in the world is in such a condi-
tion, when mothers, the teachers and molders
of the infant mind, are only to know those
things that men think proper. Woman's du-
ties in this life are trying and arduous. She
should have the wisdom of a sage and be gen-
tle as a dove. Her labors and sacrifices for
the exaltation of others as well as herself are
worthy of consideration. Woman stands not
alone; through whatever privilege is given her
man is benefitted; those women who have
opinions of their own are able to counsel with
their husbands in all family matters, and in-
deed other matters. Should not the mother
have a voice in choosing men for office who
are to govern and regulate society into which
her sons and daughters are to be ushered? God
is an impartial being, and created woman for a
noble purpose, as well as man. For genera-
tions past women have been looked upon by

[Column 2]
the majority of men just the same as any other
surplus article, and frequently the newspapers
publish items under the head of "Surplus Wo-
men." It is this spirit which keeps up the no-
tion of inferiority, and shuts her out from
many of the privileges of citizenship. It is
this that makes men smile as at a joke, when
women express themselves as entitled to rights.
It is this same spirit that prompts the opposi-
tion to woman's suffrage. Man should remem-
ber that when our Heavenly Father gave him
power to rule, it was to rule in righteousness.
What safety is there for mothers, or daughters,
or sons, in a nation ruled by a corrupt govern-
ment? None. Men should be protectors of
virtue. How many fair daughters of America
have been driven to lives of shame, by want
and starvation, after having been grossly and
cruelly deceived by some man. How many in-
nocent but thoughtless girls have been led
from virtue's path by wolves in sheep's cloth-
ing. Where can they resort for redress?
Where is the cover for their shame, but in the
hope of an early grave?
	Man has been constituted by unerring wis-
dom the head; let him not boast, but rather
ponder upon the responsibility of such a posi-
tion, have his lamp trimmed and burning, so
that those who are called the weaker vessels
may walk in the light thereof. How is it with
the civilization of the world? Dens of infamy
and debauchery flourish under the protection
of the law, and the vile seducers of innocence
walk abroad, while their victims hide their
heads and sit apart from the rest of the world.
	May the day soon come when woman will
arise in the strength of purity and say to the
vain seekers of the pleasure of an hour, be-
gone! Then would the profligate, the hypo-
crite, seek in vain for a victim. Think of
more than two thousand betrayed and aban-
doned women in the city of New York, and a
corresponding number in other large cities.
Who looks after their forlorn situation? Who
devises means for their protection, that they
may return to the path of virtue? Who but
the leaders of Woman Suffrage, which, in our
humble opinion, were it granted by the gov-
ernment, would promote the best interests of
society, temperance, peace and justice. Let
woman have a practical education in all the
departments of her life, and rise with a fixed
determination to break the shackles that have
so long bound her sex, and become free, as
God made her to be, man's helpmeet and not
his slave. Mothers should early impress these
true facts upon the minds of their children,
and instead of encouraging their boys in false
notions, show them the inconsistency of one
sex being held so superior to the other, where
both are born of the same parents. We trust
there is a new era opened up for women. No-
ble is her work and great her responsibility.
