BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	After being gone from home about three
months, my father and brethren returned to
Kirtland, finding us well and enjoying the
comforts of life. He says: "I felt to rejoice in
the Lord that he had preserved my life through
many dangers seen and unseen, and brought
me to behold my family in peace and prosper-
ity. After being at home two weeks resting
myself, I concluded I had finished my mission
to which the Lord had called me, and I estab-
lished my Pottery, according to Joseph's coun-
sel, and continued about three months, until
cold weather came on. * * Calculating on
the opening of spring to commence on a larger
scale, thinking, as did Peter of old "I go a fish-
ing." I had got an idea similar to that which
the ancient Apostles had when the Savior was
taken from them, and they went a fishing, so I
went to the mechanic's shop."
	While my father was absent with Zion's
Camp, my mother and most of the sisters in
Kirtland were engaged in knitting and spin-
ning and making garments for those who were
laboring on the Temple. My mother toiled all
summer. She took a hundred pounds of wool
to spin on shares, which, with the assistance of
a girl, she spun in order to furnish clothing for
the brethren; and although she had the privi-
lege of keeping half the quantity of wool for
herself, as a recompense for her labor, she did
not reserve any, but gave it to those who were
engaged in building the Temple. When the
cloth was woven she got it dressed and cut and
made up into garments, and gave them for the
same purpose. She was a self-sacrificing wo-
man, always studying the comfort of others;
her happiness was never complete only when
adding to that of her friends, or relieving some
poor soul. Her kind acts caused many a heart
to rejoice, and to bless the hands which had
administered to their wants. I remember the
delicious crackers she used to make and send to
the sick in Kirtland. In making them she
was thought to excel, and people who had
heard about them would come from a distance
to hire her to make them for the sick in their
families. One reason for my remembering this
so well is that my brother and I had to pound
the dough, which was one of the main causes
for their being so tender and good, and not
being overly fond of work it became very irk-
some.
	She enjoyed the love and respect of every
one, and she never wanted for anything if her
circumstances were made known. She truly
enjoyed her religion. I was her youngest child
living; was hardly seven years old when my
father went East on his first mission, but I re-
member how happy she used to seem. Often
in the morning I would awaken and hear her
praying, and then she would go about her daily
duties singing so sweetly, it seemed to me as
though heaven and the angels were not very
far off. I used to think it impossible for me
to ever become a Saint. I looked upon my
parents as such, but thought that nothing short
of perfection could take us to heaven, which I
could never attain to, as I was so fond of fun
and amusement that I could not possibly give
them up, though I often had very serious re-
flections upon the subject, and used to think if
I could only know just a little time before I
was to die, I might be able to sober down and
prepare myself, In that early day we were
full of sectarian notions, and our ideas were
rather contracted. We had many traditions
which took time to overcome. The following
incident will show the effect of early teachings,
if they are not corrected:
	A day or two after our arrival in Kirtland,
my brother and I were sent to school with Mr.
Elijah Smith's two children, Mariette and Guy.
The girl was two or three years the eldest, and

[Column 2]

I was placed in her charge. Their parents were
Presbyterians. While returning from school
the first day, she told me every body who did
not join the Presbyterians would have to go to
H—ll, where they would burn forever in fire
and brimstone; this so frightened me that I
hastened home to tell my mother, who soon
quieted my fears. My Grandfather and Aunt
Fanny (as we always called her) had moved
up to Kirtland sometime previous to our going,
and,had made the acquaintance of Mr. Smith
and his maiden sister who were relatives of
mother Whitney, and had engaged her house
for us, Aunt Sarah Smith was bitterly opposed
to Mormonism, but she thought so much of
grandpa Murray and his wife that she con-
sented to our living in her house until Spring;
but during the winter they became just as
much attached to my parents, and I always
felt as welcome there as I did in my own
father's house. Mr. Smith's wife had been sick
some time previous to our coming there and
she died in a few days after, but just before her
departure she sent for my father to administer
to her. Aunt Sarah was very kind and indulg-
ent to children and I often stayed with them
nights, but we were not allowed to play out of 
doors after sundown Saturdays,as their Sabbath
commenced at that hour. My Grandfather
Murray was not a member of any church; he
believed the principles of Mormonism, and was
often upon the point of being baptized, when
he would see things in individuals who professed
to be Saints which would so try him he thought
he stood as good a chance to be saved as any
one. A more noble kind-hearted man never
lived, he was generous to a fault,and some were
unprincipled enough to take advantage of it.
He was very ingenious and could make anything
from a child's run-a-round to a Rocking horse
and carriage. He was never known to refuse
a favor, and he would often rise from his bed
when he was sick to go and do a job of work to
accommodate a neighbor. He was a man of but
few words and some called him an Infidel but
while visiting his children in the East, he was
taken sick, and before he died he expressed his
regret for not having obeyed the Gospel.
	Aunt Fanny was a true Saint, and was be-
loved by all who had the pleasure of her ac-
quaintance; her sympathies were always exer-
cised for the poor and distressed. She was
agreeable society for old or young and many
an evening her young acquaintances would
gather at her house to hear her sing or relate
the "Scottish Chiefs,""Children of the Abbey,"
and other like tales, which she could do as I
never heard any one else. She had been a
great reader; and I was named by her after
the Scottish Lady, Helen Mar.
	The Youngs were all gifted singers and when
they sang together they made a grand choir.
Aunt Fanny sang many beautiful songs, but
the one I loved best was "Oft in the stilly
night." She had a clear melodious voice, and
sang with such pathos, that all present would
be affected to tears. The words are so touch-
ing and so expressive that I often repeat them
as applicable to my own feelings.
	How fondly we cherish the memories of the
good old times, old friends. and old scenes,
which are endeared to us by recollections of
joys, griefs and pain. I dearly love to read old
letters and look over the old relics which so
remind me of other days, and I love to hear
the old songs we used to sing.
	I was about five years old when we moved
to Kirtland. I remember my native town, and
many things which happened while living
there are as fresh in my mind as are the scenes
in Missouri; but none are so dearly cherished
as are the sweet memories in and around dear
old Kirtland. It is true they were short, but I
look back to it as the spot where the happiest
days of my childhood were spent. When we
started for Missouri I was delighted, as children

[Column 3]

commonly are, at the prospect of a change, go-
ing to a new country, although some of my
little mates tried to frighten me with awful
tales about being eaten alive by the Missouri-
ans, who were cannibals with horns; but I was
not to be convinced, though I have heard that
there are people silly enough to believe similar
tales about the "Mormons;" our living there in
Missouri may have given us the name, but the
nearest that I ever saw were those called "Mor-
mon eaters." For years after we left Kirtland
I used to look back and pine for the old scenes
and school companions; those happy days were
lived over again and again in bright dreams,
and when I would awaken, the thought that I
should never again see the dear old hills and
wander over them and through the woods to
gather nuts and berries, and pick the wild
flowers and wintergreen which grew thickly
under our feet; nor the orchards, where in
early spring I used to go with hymn or story
book and sit alone and sing, or listen to the
little birds chirping and warbling as it seemed
their sweet songs of praise for the beautiful
spring, and I would feel perfectly happy; and
also the red schoolhouse, and the little brook
behind it, and the larger stream which ran near
our home, where the black walnut and maple
trees grew, and where in the spring we made
the luscious maple sugar, and in the fall we
gathered the nuts and apples for the winter—I
would think of all these things; and among
other pleasing recollections were our Sunday
Schools, where I used to love to go and recite
verses and whole chapters from the New Testa-
ment, and we received rewards in primers, etc.,
which I think were more highly appreciated in
those days than they are at the present time.
At ten o'clock we would form in line and march
with our teachers up to the Temple. The
thought that I could never see or enjoy them
again would make me sad, and sometimes I
would cry bitterly.
	I feel unwilling to close without tak-
ing a peep into my fathers Potter Shop
where we would stand and watch and
wonder how he ever learned to manage
the clay so skilfully as to turn out the numer-
ous and curiouly shaped jars and dishes of all
sorts and sizes. Occasionlly it was found nec-
essary to throw the lump back into the mill
where it had to be ground over as it had refus-
ed to be molded into a vessel of honor. It was
no wonder he so often made use of this parable.
I remember the cunning little dishes and toys he
would make for me which I generously divided
with my mates who were less fortunate. We
never wanted for any comfort as long as he
worked at his trade which was a very profitable
one, and previous to hearing "Mormonism" he
was carrying on a flourishing business in that
part of the country where he lived and was
in comfortable circumstances and highly res-
pected by the community, but when this Gospel
saluted the ears of my parents they gladly em-
braced it and sacrificed their good name and
all they had for the sake of everlasting riches.
Some wept over them and others treated them
with scorn. My mother's eldest brother, who
wasliving in Rochester,N.Y.,came to visit us in
Kirtland. He pleaded with them to turn from
their delusion, and when he found he could
not move them, he appeared heart-broken.
He had watched over my mother from an in-
fant and always called her his pet sister, and to
see her there in such lowly circumstances with-
out hope of earthly comforts made the separation
doubly hard to bear, and added to this was a
feeling of mortification to see them living and
associating with a people so despised as the
"Mormons." He was a noble and kind-hearted
man but too proud to humble himself so far as
to accept of the true Gospel of Christ, after
being driven by different winds of doctrine he
at last died a spiritualist.


