BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There is a fine lesson to be learned from
the lives of these two celebrated women,
the sweetest female poets of America, as
well as some prose works of merit. They
were very remarkable women, and came of
a remarkable family. Their native home
was in the Miami Valley—eight miles north
of Cincinnati, Ohio—in a"low, small house,"
situated on a small farm; Alice first saw the 
light on the 26th day of April, 1820, and
Phoebe, her life-long companion, on Septem-
ber 4, 1824. Their parents were uncommon
characters, and were descended from an
English ancestor, Sir Robert Carey, in the
reign of Henry the Fifth of England. They
were very proud of their descent, especially
Phoebe, who had a ring made bearing their 
coat of arms,which was taken off her finger
after death. Their full coat of arms, richly
emblazoned and framed, hung in their li-
brary after they had a home of their own.
	Their father bore the same name as this
renowned cavalier, and was a man of su-
perior intelligence, of sound principles, and
a blameless life. He was especially fond of
reading romances and poetry, but early
poverty and hard pioneer life left him no
time for acquiring more than the merest
rudiments of a common education; he had
a want of confidence in his own judgment,
which was inherited in some measure by
his offspring. He was a loving father, sang
his children to sleep with holy hymns, and
habitually went about his work repeating
the grand old Hebrew poets and the sweet
and precious promises of the New Testa-
ment of our Lord. For him the common
life of a farmer was idealized into poetry;
springtime and harvest were ever-recurring
miracles, and dumb animals became com-
panionable; horses and cattle would follow
him, sure to receive a kind word, a gentle
pat, a few grains of corn, or a lump of salt
or sugar. In his youth he must have been
handsome—six feet in height, well propor-
tioned with black, curling hair, bright
brown eyes, slightly aquiline nose, and 
beautiful teeth. His daughter Alice most
resembled him of any of his children, and 
they ever loved to be together, seeming
entirely congenial to each other. In her
was reproduced not only his form and fea-
tures, but his mental, moral and emotional
nature.
	The wife of this man, and the mother of 
his children, was blue eyed and beautiful.
Alice said: "My mother was a woman of
superior intelligence, and of good, well-
ordered life; in my memory she stands
apart from all others—wiser, purer, doing
more than any other woman." Phoebe said
of her, "She was the wonder of my child-
hood; she is no less a wonder as I recall
her now. How she did so much work, and 
yet did it so well! How she reared care-
fully and governed wisely so large a family
of children, and yet found time to develop
by thought and reading a mind of unusual
strength and clearness, is still a mystery to
me." She was fond of history, politics,
moral essays, biographies, and works of re-
ligious controversy. When we remember
that this woman was the mother of nine
children, who performed the labors of her
household with her own hands, that she
lived in a rural district, aloof from the
larger interests and busy thoroughfares of
men, we can form a truer estimate of the
superiority of her mind, and the strengthof her character,; her children truly "rose

[Column 2]

up and called her blessed; her husband also,
and he praised her.
	Such, in brief, were the parents of Alice
and Phoebe Carey; you can trace their char-
acters in that of their two daughters in a
remarkable degree. As I said, they were a
gifted family. A daughter, Rhoda, who
died young, Alice long and bitterly
mourned, and always said she was the most
talented of any of the family.
	For the first fourteen years of the lives
of these two girls, they were little drudges,
working early and late to help procure an
existence and "keep out of debt." Alice
said: "We hungered and thirsted for knowl-
edge, but there were not a dozen books in
the house, nor a library within reach; there
was no chance to learn but in a little district
school down the road, and I never went to
any other." Think of what self helpers
they must have been to become the extraor-
dinary writers and workers they were in
after life!
	When Alice was fifteen this beloved and
venerated mother died, their lives then be-
came one of loneliness and sorrow, all am-
bition for a time seemed to be buried in
the grave of this lamented mother and their
beloved sister Rhoda. Their walks were
now solitary, generally terminating at the 
little family burial place on a green hill that
rose in sight of their home. Alice's first
published poem was entitled "The Child of
Sorrow," she being then in her eighteenth
year. One of the severest criticisms passed
on her early poems was, that they were full
of graves. Dear, mourning girl! How
could she escape from writing songs of sor-
row, when they were written on the grave
of her mother and sister? How severe and
unrighteous is the judgment of a cold, in-
sensate world!
	After a time Alice began to publish, and
without hope of a present reward was send-
ing her verses through the land astray, they
chiefly finding shelter in the periodicals
and journals of the Universalist Church, in
which the family was reared. The "La-
dies' Repository" of Cincinnati, and "Gra-
ham's Magazine," were among the leading
ones that accepted and published her earlier
verses. From Dr. Bailey, of the "Era,"
she received the first ten dollars as a gratu-
ity, when she had written for him for some
months, the first money ever earned by her
pen! Afterwards she had a small stipulated
sum for contributions to his paper.
	Time rolled on, and Alice wrote and pub-
lished her "Pictures of Memory," which
Edgar Allen Poe pronounced the most mu-
sically perfect lyrics in the English lan-
guage. Now the names of Alice and Phoebe
Carey began to appear in the corners of
newspapers and magazines, with songs that
followed and had fixed the attention and
won the affection of some of the best hearts
and minds in the land, among them Whit-
tier had written the sisters words of appre-
ciation and encouragement.
	In 1849, the editor of "The Tribune,"
Horace Greeley, visited them in their own
home, and thus speaks of the interview:
"I found them, on my first visit to Cincin-
nati early in the summer of '49, and the
afternoon spent in their tidy cottage on
"Walnut Hills," seven miles out of the
city, in the company of congenial spirits,
since departed, is among the greenest oasis
in my recollection of scenes and events
long past."
	In  November, 1850, Alice Carey, broken
in health, sad in spirit, with little money,
but with a will that nothing could daunt,
an energy and patience which no pain or
sorrow could overcome, started alone to
seek her fortune in the city of New York.

[Column 3]

Referring to this before her death,she said:
"Ignorance stood  me  in the stead of cour-
age; had  I  known the world, I dare not
have done it."
	To be continued.


