CONSISTENCY.

	We are sometimes told that this rare
quality is a jewel, and when used in weigh-
ing subjects, we find it is truly the case.
For instance, we are told that we are living
under the curse, which God our Father pro-
nounced upon woman when our first par-
ents were driven out of the Garden of
Eden. Admitting this to be so, let us con-
sistently weigh the subject, and we find
wisdom in accepting the reproof as our Fa-
ther designed we should; it will eventually
prove a blessing. Does the chastisement
of a loving parent ever prove anything
else? No, never! it invariably awakens
the mind to subjects of interest, too impor-
tant to be forgotten; and while we adhere
to them we find our abilities developed and
strengthened by giving heed to his laws.
But you say, "What ability can be devel-
oped by having your desire toward your
husband, and he to rule over you?" In the
first place, I would be careful to choose a
husband who considered himself accounta-
ble to God, our Father, for all his acts; be-
lieving the rules given were equally de-
signed for each of us to observe. Would
it then be difficult to honor and sustain such
an one as our head, for since we have ar-
rived to years of accountaaility, we find it
necessary to be lovers of good order.
	The Apostle Paul says, "When I was a
child I thought as a child, I spoke as a child;
but when I became a man, I put away child-
ish things." Accordingly, we must be con-
sistent beings, and realize that our lessons
are in advance of that of childhood. We
are preparing to be men and women in our
Father's kingdom. We must learn to give
love to whom love is due, honor to whom
honor, and fear to whom fear. Yet we
are told to become like little children to
inherit this kingdom. True, in our love to
our Heavenly Parents. But children love
that which dazzles and attracts the atten-
tion; when older, they find that thorns grow
among the roses and the bitter and the
sweet are mingled through mazes of life.
And to become men and women in Christ,
we need not only one of our own faith to
assist us, but also the Spirit of Christ, with
his faith and zeal also. It is necessary to
add that through all the duties of life we
need to be consistent. And particularly in
the management of children do not be
hasty or harsh, but help them to see things
in their own true light. And yet remem-
ber it is not a kindness to indulge them in
their own way, but on the contrary, show
them this is not always wisdom. Teach
them that self-denial is a virture, and disci-
pline them in its proper exercise. We
should know what is right ourselves, as
mothers and teachers, and with firmness
and dignity, asking the help of our Heav-
enly Father, that we may make the right
impression on their young and tender
minds; which by precept and example can
be done, but it is necessary to correct in
gentleness and the spirit of love, which is a
stronger power than the rod. As we read in
the second epistle of John, 4th chap., 4th
and 5th verses:
	"I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy
children walking in truth, as we have re-
ceived a commandment from the Father.
	"And now I beseech thee, lady, not as
though I wrote a new commandment unto
thee, but that which we had from the be-
ginning, that we love one another."
	As there are great events in the future, we
cannot be too careful in preparing them for
that near future, when they will be called
upon the stage of action. And that we
may, as mothers in Israel, have wisdom to

[Column 2]
prepare them for this great event, is the
prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
					M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, May 5, 1880.


[Column 1]
