NOTES AND NEWS.
SEVERAL of the leading Continental jour-
nals  report  that  the  Archduke  Rudolph
"proposed" in person to Princess Stephanie
of Belgium at an evening party given in his
honor at the Chateau  de Laeken on the 7th
instant.  Among the amusements provided
for their Majesties'  guests  were  conjuring
performances by the celebrated prestidigit-
ator,  Professor  Herrmann, and  a concert in
the magnificent  conservatory  attached  to
the Castle.  Matters had been  so  arranged
that  when  the  company  were  conducted
from the saloon in which Herrmann had held
seance to the Winter Garden, the Archduke
and the Princess were left together tete a-


tete for a few  minutes.  As  soon  as  they
were alone, the future  Emperor-King ap-
proached her Royal Highness with a low and
formal obeisance, saying, "Madam, will you
take me for a husband?" to which plain ques-
tion  the  Princess  simply  replied,  curtsey-
ing deeply, "Yes, your Imperial Highness."
"Your Royal  Highness's answer makes me
supremely happy," observed the Archduke.
"And I," rejoiced Princess Stephanie, "pro-
mise that I will do  my  duty  towards you
under all  circumstances."  No  more was
said; but  the  youthful  pair, arm-in-arm
joined the Royal circle in the Winter Gar-
den, and the Archduke, leading his fair com-
panion up  to  her  father,  addressed  King
Leopold as follows:  "Sire, I have with your
Majesty's permission  begged  the  Princess
Stephanie to bestow her hand upon me. It 
is my happy  privilege  to  inform  you  that
my petition has  been  granted."  I rejoice,
Monseigneur," replied  the King, "to greet
you as my son-in-law."  The  Princess em-
braced her mother,  and  immediately after-
wards the Imperial-Royal betrothal was an-
nounced to the assembled company.


Dyspepsia C[---]: H.  H.  Warner  and  Co.--
Gents--I have for some time past been afflicted
 with dyspepsia from  which  I could obtain no
permanent relief, utnil I used your Safe Bitters
and Pills:  and since using them I have had no 
trouble from my  former  complaint, and  I can
now truly say that  I am a well man.
	I am greatfully yours,
					C P BROOKS.
	Roche ter, N. Y., October 5, 1879.

