EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THANKS to Mrs. Sarah W. Sears, Eleventh
Ward, for a tasteful bouquet of sweet fresh
violets and bright-eyed pansies, to grace
our office table early in the season.
 SISTERS E. R. Snow Smith, B. W. Smith,
Zina D. Young and M. I. Horne, also Bro.
Daniel Graves, attended a special meeting
of the sisters at Mill Creek and organized a
branch silk association. The prospects are
favorable [now for the rapid growth and
permanency of this industrial enterprise.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt’s class in obstetrics
is now opened.  Several ladies from the
country have arrived, and it is to be hoped
others will come. There is a great need of
thorough preparation for this department
of the medical profession, and Dr. Pratt’s
terms are reasonable, which will suit the
circumstances of the sisters.
	The New York Senate has adopted a con-
current resolution providing for the amend-
ment to the Constitution, which will give
women the suffrage, or equal political
rights.
	If New York gives woman political free-
dom it will have great influence  in other
states and Territories for the Empire State
is one of the most powerful in the Union.
 THE women who advocate equal political
rights mean to have some voice in the var-
ious Conventions held in the interest of the
next president, and to insist upon the 16th,
amendment to the Constitution. We have
received letters from some of the officers of
the National Woman Suffrage Association
urging our attending the Convention to be
held in Indianapolis May 26 and 27, also
the Presidential Convention in Chicago in
June. One  lady  says "I trust  you will


make arrangements to  attend the Republi-
can,Greenback and Democratic Conventions
I have applied for seats for 76  women  dele-
gates  of  the  various State  and  National
Woman  Suffrage  Associations.  You were
elected at our  January Convention  one of
the delegates of N. W S. A.”
 This we certainly consider a very  flatter-
ing  compliment.  In  the  same  letter  she
says; “Remember me kindly  to the  many
worthy women who are working  out social
problems in your midst.  I shall be glad to
meet tnem when I come to Utah for I intend
to visit your people  before I die.”
 “I read the EXPONENT regularly or rather
irregularly for I carry it in my hand or pocket
waiting for a moment to gmance it through.
It is always  good  and  interesting.  What
excellent  work  your women do.” These
ladles are  working nobly  for the elevation
of their sex.  They are women of intellig-
ence; philanthropic and  above all  they  are
terribly in earnest.  God speed them, their
cause is just  and  should prevail.  Earnest-
ness is the passport to success.


