BIGOTRY.

	Too short and euphonious a name for the
hateful, bitter sentiment it represents, but
which is often mistaken for a "stern sense
of duty." Ever since one religion, or man-
ner of worship, has had the pre-dominance
over another, so long has bigotry had a
place in the human heart. Indeed, but lit-
tle humanity is left in that soul in which
bigotry has a hold. I trace it back, even as
far as Cain; the hateful feeling which led
him to shed the innocent blood of his broth-
er, was bigotry in embryo. Although he
was not willing to live a righteous life, he
was not willing that his brother should en-
joy the peace and blessings consequent to
such a life.
	As patriarchial families grew up into
tribes, and tribes into nations, bigotry grew
rank and odious in the hearts of men, and
with its twin sister, hypocrisy, brought
about the long and renowned Holy War.
Deceived and misled by it, Saul took an ac-
tive part in the persecution of the disciples
of Christ.
	Bigotry has ever been a powerful weapon
in the hands of the evil one, to decimate
the numbers of the righteous. As I read
in the Revelations about the righteous spir-
its under the throne of God, crying: "How
long, O Lord, Holy and True, dost thou not
judge, and avenge our blood on them who
dwell on the earth?" etc., I think of the
thousands of truly good and heroic ones
who were tortured, burnt at the Stake, or
otherwise slain through the Inquisition in
Rome, in Spain and in France, which abomi-
nable institution was founded and fed by
bigotry. Later on, the Waldenses, or disci-
ples of Waldo, were tortured and slain, in
the valleys of the Alps, by a few zealot
princes and counts and their superstitious
tenantry, incited by a bigoted priestcraft.
Plus IX excommunicated Victor Emmanuel,
late King of Italy, (then only King of Pied-
mont and Siberia) for granting to his people
liberty of conscience and liberty of the
press. Nor were the Catholics alone warped

[Column 2]

by a bigoted spirit; instance: Elizabeth
of England persecuting the Catholics; the
Protestant colonies of America persecuting
the harmless Quakers, and last, but not
least, the Christian (?) denominations in the
States of Ohio,Missouri and Illinois driving,
robbing and murdering a harmless and
law-abiding people, for daring to say that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God.
	By their fruits shall ye know them! Many
who cry down despotism nurse it in their
very bosoms, in the shape of a bigoted be-
lief that they are right, and that whoever
does not see and believe as they do is posi-
tively wrong, and should be, morally and
socially, put under foot. Many, under my
observation, have estranged themselves
from good and warm friends, because the
latter would not discountenance some per-
son, or persons, whose views did not chime
with their own. Such things within the
pale of Christianity! Let us shake them
off, and blow them to the four winds. Not
with a narrow and bigoted mind shall we
ever enter the presence of a just and merci-
ful God, who has given every human being
his or her agency, and who sendeth rain
and sunshine upon the wicked as well as
the righteous, and wait for a day of retri-
bution.	E. C. E. F.
	Morgan City, May 5, 1880.


