WOMAN'S VOICE. 

	As an individual I feel to rejoice at the bright
prospect for the women of Utah; I have often
felt that it was unjust that the sons should be
so much more highly valued and esteemed
than the daughters, now I perceive that wo-
man's position is as honorable as that of man.
We as parents in the family circle consider our
sons and daughters equal, then why not our
hevenly parents regard theirs the same. Why
are we women given voices if they may not be
heard in the adjustment of laws for the protec-
tion of our children against the evils of the
world? Why are we given reason if we are not
to use it for the good of ourselves and our race.
It seems to me if the feeling and tradition to
look down upon our sex was called the Twin
Relic of Barbarism it would be rightly named.
	In all we do or say let us be moderate not
radical be sure we are right and in harmoney
with true principles then press forward.
	As a small community here we are striving
to retain the spirit and blessing of our heavenly
Father and trying to do our duty and may God
grant that we may keep our feet in His path is
the prayer of your humble sister in the Gospel
of Christ. The EXPONENT is welcomed here
and read with interest.
	JULIA  D. WILSON.
Hillsdale Iron Co., Utah.

	Your interesting paper comes duly to hand
once every two weeks. I take great pleasure
in reading its columns.
	The subject of teachers comes most forcibly
to my mind just now, for I have had a little
experience in this office being favored with the
blest opportunity of attending to that duty for
upwards of seven years, in times past, and
through the blessings of the Almighty I had
health and strength during that time to per-
form the duties required of me.
	I beleive that a teacher should be blessed
with light and wisdom with quick discern-
ment able to descsrn if the spirit of the Lord is
in the habitation we visit, if not try and find
out the cause. We should always cultivate a
quiet, meek spirit within ourselves so that we
can advise with our sisters such things as will
be for their best good and welfare and for
the furtherance of God's kingdom upon the
earth.
	We should dress neat and clean and use
econmy in all that is committed into our
charge. If we want ornaments let them be
the work of our own hands. We should set ex-
amples worthy of imitation not forgeting to call
upon the Lord in secret prayer before we set
out on our visit. Ask Him to accompany us
and to assist us by his holy spirit that all we do
may be done in righteousness, I for one feel
thankful to my heavenly Father that the ener-
gies of woman are being called into exercise
I know that we can do something for the good


of ourselves and the community at large. If
we will not hide up in the earth the talents
that the Lord has given us; but improve on
them that we may gain other talents. We can
do much to improve ourselves. Can read good
books and store our minds with useful know-
ledge and attend to the daily duties that are
required of us from day to day, in our families
and neighborhoods, blessing and strengthening
each other in the faith of the Gospel of truth.
							MARY GEATES.
	Millville.


