MOTHER.

  Oh, that heaven-born name!  That blessed
creature!  She to whom we all owe our ex-
istence.  The one  who  of  all on earth is
most tender  and  affectionate.  Do  we  ap-
preciate her?  No, not  fully, until  we are
bereft of her, and left to feel the pangs of 
an orphan's  heart.  'Tis  then  we realize
that home bereft of mother is a most lonely
and desolate  place.  The  memory of that
dear one then comes vividly to  our minds,
and we behold the many testimonials of her
love and devotion, and our conduct towards
her then presents itself to view.  We plainly
behold the path that we have trod, and we
sincerely reflect upon our past deeds.  If we
have in any way assisted her in her daily
labor, given  her a comforting  word  in an
hour of  affliction, or caused one ray of sun-
shine to  gladden  her  pathway  or lighten
her burdens, it will cause our hearts to  re-
joice and we will feel, though mother has
left us and our mortal  eyes  cannot  behold
her, yet  she  may be lingering  near  us, or
pleading with our Father for the protection
of her offspring whom  she  has left in this
world of trials.  But on the  other  hand, if 
we  have been disobedient, spoken harshly,
or  caused a load  of  sorrow to overshadow
her brow, it will bring grief to our hearts;
and, though  she may  have forgiven  us all
those little  imperfections, yet  they cannot
be erased from our memories.
  Oh, let  us  who  have  mothers spared us,
take warning and march firmly by her side
through the wearisome  journey of life, and
chase from her brow the shadows which are
liabla to gather there, for we are her hope
and pride, the heighth of her ambition and
the  main  object  of  her  creation;  and in
years to come will find her the truest friend
on earth.  She  is  true from  the  time we
breathe the  first  breath,  through  all  the
changes  of  life; she  carefully  watches us
through infancy and youth, and tries to in-
delibly print  upon our minds the  stamp of
virtue, and to direct  us in the narrow path,
until finally,  when  time  rolls  round, she
sees her child kneel  at  the  altar, her eyes
beaming with  joy and her  heart filled with
bright hopes for the future, just as she had
formerly done,  to  unite  her  destiny with
a companion for life.  She looks calmly on,
yet is  fervently  praying for  the prosperity
of the wedded pair.  She is still with us in
heart, shares alike  our  joys and sorrows all
through  life, until we  are finally embraced
in the cold arms  of  death, should  she  sur-
vive us, and  then  the ties  of  affection are
not severed- she still looks forward and has
hope to embrace her dear ones in eternity,
and again  have  the family ties re-united.
Yes, mother  is  one  of  our  truest earthly
friends; 'tis she who  helps  to  relieve our
many wants, stands by our bedside in sick-
ness, and when all the earth beside is deaf,
she listens  attentively to  all our griefs and
woes;  she  may be apparently indifferent at
times, but  she is always first to rescue her
child from danger;  she will  even  stand be-
tween us and death, and though all earthly
friends have  faltered, she is still  the  same
true friend, and is ever willing to point out
to the  erring  child the  way  in  which it
should walk. She will plead for the victim,
even at the scafold, though she may know
his  crimes deserve death.  Yet  there  is a
tie of  affection that binds him to her, and a
feeling of love that she cannot suppress.
 O children, let the  tendrils  of  thy love
and  affection  twine  round  thy  mother's 
heart, that she may have strength and hope
and  something  tangible  to  stimulate  her
through all the trials she may  be called up-
on to pass through.

	Oh, let us esteem that blessed gem,
More precious than any diadem;
An humble rustic, or lady fair--
The motherly love alike is there.
							        LOREN. 
Monroe, May, 1880.


LIFE.

	Life is a terraced mountain—the only
communication between the walks thereof
is steep and of difficult ascent. He who
would walk in a higher plane must climb
the dividing steep hillside by indefatigable
and persevering application of both mind
and body to overcome, inch by inch, the re-
sisting obstacles, until his feet are planted
on the coveted plane above, only to see an-
other just above him, but not quite so diffi-
cult of attainment. Each terrace is wider,
more beautiful and conducive to happiness,
and above all nearer to heaven. The vir-
tues cling closer to you, while the evil at-
tributes wither for the want of native nour-
ishment, and all live nearer the purer law—
yes, above the law; for such is a law of jus-
tice, righteousness, peace and honor unto
himself. We wearily, but not fainting,
keep climbing, gaining new strength, new
life, light and wisdom at each victorious
ascent, until at last, with the flag of Excel-
sior clasped with the grip of steel, our
hearts burning with joy and gladness, our
eyes flashing with the pride of a well-earned
victory, we behold the cap-stone, a mansion
of indescribable beauty and glory, sur-
rounded with the last terrace, adorned with
all the beautiful given the earth as a halo
of life, light and loveliness, which only the
purifying power of "integrity unto the end"
enables one to endure the proximity. But
nobly-earned honors refine and strengthen
until the dauntless one approaches the Por-
tals of Bliss and lightly touches the door-
bell of pure diamond, glowing like living
fire, and the door opens and one arrayed in
white, transfixingly beautiful, the tongue is
dumb, no more can be told. She smiles,
and with a sweetness of voice of ten thou-
sand silver bells, says; "Come! I welcome
you home." The breath is suspended with
awe and reverence,and bending low he steps
within the portal—the vision of loveliness
beyond; he turned to tell the glad tidings,
but the angel placed her finger on her lips,
every lineament of which is grace and
mercy, and his lips are sealed.
	But follow up this arduous path, fraught


with so many trials, yet crowned with so
much good, and faint not, nor grow, weary
and die on one of the lower terraces.
