BY E. ADDIE HEATH.

	With feeling of deep reverence and affec-
tion we look into the face of this great wo-
man, who toiled not for herself alone, but
who honestly earned from her own sex,
gratitude that ought to quicken the pulse
and throb in the heart of every woman, as
long as one lives to remember her who so
bravely battled with, and overcame circum-
stances the most forbidding and dreary.
	To-day gifted women need not feel them-
selves alone; for since the time she of whom
we speak exclaimed: "O, the saving power
there is in feeling that there is one human
being who cares whether we stand or fall,"
woman has been winning day by day not
only justice of criticism, which rightly be-
longed to her, but justice of heart, which is
justly woman's due.
	Genius is of no sex!
	In Portland, Maine, July 9th, 1811, a
daughter was born to Nathaniel Willis,
(father of N. P. Willis,) who became known
to the public as Fanny Fern. She was
christened Grata Payson Willis, "but the
family so strongly objected to the classical
name of Grata, that the still more ancient
name of Sara was substituted, and by this
name she was called, until she had invented
and given celebrity to another.
	Again the illustration of "blessings on the
hand of women" for we have good authority
for saying that it "was unquestionably from
their mother that N. P. Willis, Fanny Fern,
and their brothers and sisters derived the
talent which all of them, in some measure
inherited."
	The family removed to Boston while she
was an infant. Here her father, a practical
printer, established a printing house, and
later began the publication of "The Record-
er," a religious newspaper, and later yet,
the publication of the "Youth's Compan-
ion," for which, after her school-life was
ended, she occasionally wrote bright, pretty
pieces.
	Her childhood was a happy one. She is
remembered as an interesting little girl,
full of activity, her hair curling and golden,
her complexion briliant. Her home, in
which there was a spare room, with an old
arm chair, where a large Bible lay—the
room her mother used to go into, sighing as
she closed the door. "Young as I was,"
dear, dear Fanny Fern tells us, "I had
learned to watch for her coming out; for
the sweet, calm, holy look her features
wore fascinated me like a spell. Now I
khow how it was; now that the baptism of
a woman's lot has been mine also; and of-
ten, when blinded by the waves of trouble
which have dashed over my head, have I
thought of the open Bible in the old arm-
chair, its pages wet with tears which no
human eye saw fall, wiped away by no hu-
man hand, but precious in His eyes as the
seed of the husbandman," from which He
garners the golden harvest sheaves. Until
the year 1872,this old house was still stand-
ing. The Boston Fire swept it away.
	"I loved my mother!" are her own words,
"Everybody did!"
	Her education was acquired at various
schools; that of Miss Catharine Beecher at
Hartford, she remembered as one of the
liveliest and best.
	In 1837 she was married to Mr. Charles Eld-

[Column 2]
redge, the cashier of the Merchant's bank,
Boston, with whom she lived in affluence
and constant happiness for nine years. This
true home was first invaded by sorrow
when her first child, a beautiful little girl
of seven years "went to that blessed home
where tears are wiped away," and where,as
she has feelingly said: "Aunt Fanny knows
her lost are found." And before this first
deep grief had spent itself, the husband
was stricken with a fever, and after a six
weeks' illness the strong arm upon which
the fond wife had leaned so trustingly was
powerless to shield her,—he to whom she
entrusted her life happiness lay "magnifi-
cent in death."
	His estate defrayed the cost of adminis-
tering—that was all. The widow found her-
self entirely dependent upon her own efforts
for the support of herself and her two little
girls.
	What could she do to earn money?
	How mamy, many women in like circum-
stances have asked the same question.
	She tried sewing. She applied for a sit-
uation, and passed an examination for a
public school teacher, but the preference
was given to another.
	When every other door seemed closed
against her, the thought occurred to her
that she might earn a livehood by writing.
	From the great road of life, is there a path-
way traced out for every human soul? Why,
then, this blind groping in a dense forest,
where the thick underbrush opposes a step
forward, and the sharp thorns and briers
that catch at the outer garments, pierce
and tear the delicate flesh when the hands
try to loosen their grasp? That the feet
may strike that pathway? That the
step may be made firm? No need to ask
you or me, for we don't know; nor can we
tell until we come to the end of our path-
way.
	In a desparing moment she dashed off
"The Model Minister," and carried the
article herself first to one office, then to
another, until the editor of a little maga-
zine,—"kind hearted man!"—agreed to
take the manuscript for half a dollar. to be
paid on publication day. A discouraging
experience! but nearly every paper in Bos-
ton republished the article.
	This encouraged a second attempt, so she
toiled on. Other papers copied her bright,
witty sayings, and ere long she had no dif-
ficulty in disposing of whatever she pre-
pared.
	It was after her name had attracted public
notic, that she wrote:
	"Nobody could be more astonished than
I, to find myself famous; I never dreamed
of it, when I sat in a small room, at the top
of the house where I lodged, scribbling over
a sheet of coarse foolscap with 'noms de
plume,' out of which I was to choose one for
my first article—which article I never
thought of preserving, any more than the
succeeding ones, supposing my'meagre pec-
uniary remuneration the only reward I was
to hope for. I think the reason I selected
the name Fern was because when a child,
and walking with my mother in the coun-
try, she used always to pluck a leaf of it,
to place in her bosom, for its sweet odor,
and that gloomy morning, when I almost
despaired of earning bread for my children,
I had been thinking of her, and wishing
she were living, that I might lay my head
upon her bosom and tell her all my sorrows;
and then memory carried me back, I scarce
knew how, to those childish days, when I
ran before her in the woods, to plnck the
sweet fern she loved: and then I said to
myself, my name shall be 'Fanny Fern'—
little dreaming anybody would ever know
or care anything about it."


Could  more  of  the  womanly  heart  be
shown  than  is  reflected  in  these  simple
words.
 Her spicy articles were collected into little
volumes and  published under the  titles
"Fern Leaves,"  Fresh  Ferns,"  and  "Little
Ferns  for  Fanny's  Little  Friends,"  for
which  she received  a  large  amount  of
money.  Then  followed  "Rose Clark" and
"Ruth Hall."
 A little later  the  engagement  with  Mr.
Robert Bonner was entered  into--to  write
exclusively  for the "New  York  Ledger,"
for which she was paid one hundred dollars
a column!
In January, 1856, she was married to Mr.
James  Parton.  Her  connection  with  the
"Ledger" she continued  to  the close of her
life.
 Mr. Parton has given us a Memorial vol-
ume, in which he informs us that the "last
six years of her life were a constant struggle
with death; and what made it more remark-
able was, that the conflict went on in secrecy.
From the moment when she discovered her
condition, she determined that if she could
not  avoid  being  sick,  she  could  at  least
avoid appearing so.  Her activity of  mind,
and her spirit of  fun  survived to the  end.
To within  a  few  hours  of  her  death, she
made peculiar comment upon events passing
in her room, and showed  a lively apprecia-
tion of the ludicrous."
On the day of her  death, which  occured
October 10th, 1872, she helped array her little
grand daughter, for a birthday fete. When
they physician,  in  reply  to  her  question
"Am I  dying?"  bowed  his  head, she  re-
quested  that  little  Effie  be  brought, she
gave her her  parting  words,  then  said;
"Now let  her  go  back  to the  party.  If I
die this  evening, let her go to  bed without
knowing it.  And  don't  tell  her  before
breakfast.  After  breakfast,  tell  her  I am
better, and have gone to see her mother.
Then  there  were  parting  words  for  all,
and "while still in the most perfect  posses-
sion of her  conciousness  she  breathed her
last."
 Out in  dear  Mount  Auburn,  where  so
many precious dead lie, there is an exquisite
cross, ornamented  with  ferns,  which  bears
the name "Fanny  Fern;"  there  is a small
mound, under which the little prattler who
used to pray, please, God, let  me die before
my papa," sleeps.  On  the  marble  at the
head of the large grave is written,  "Charles
H. Eldredge."
 The daughter  who  became  the  wife  of
Mortimer Thornton, "Doe sticks," is buried
beside her husband. they have both been
dead some time.  Little  Effie  grown  to a
beautiful and talented  young lady  is their
only child.  She inherits, it is thought, the
genius of her grandmother.
 Grace, the remaining daughter of "Fanny
Fern," is now Mrs. James Parton.--Women
At Work.


