CORRESPONDENCE.

SMITHFIELD, April 26, 1880.

DEAR EDITOR:—We must send you a few
items from this part of the world some-
times, to let you know that we are alive.
For some reason not known to us we are
left out in the cold, and have no Stake or-
ganization. I believe all the Relief Socie-
ties throughout the Territory are organized
into Stakes except Cache Valley. What
we have done, or what we have not done,
to be served so is past our comprehension.
The Relief Society of this place is trying to
keep pace with our sister societies in doing
good. The past winter has been a severe
one, and it has taxed our President, Sister
Adeline Barber, to the uttermost to find out
and care for those who might otherwise
suffer; and though we come out of the con-
test with a depleted treasury, I believe
none have suffered from want. 
	On the 29th of March, the sisters of the
Relief Society gave a farewell dinner to
our honored Bishop, who has been called on
a mission to Great Britain. He has been a
friend and counselor to the Relief Society
ever since its organization, and we felt it
was nothing but right to show our respect
to one so tried and true. A committee was
chosen, who got up the following resolu-
tions:
	"Beloved and Honored Bishop—We, the
sisters of the Relief Society, wish to tender
unto you the gratitude of our hearts for the
brotherly care with which you have watched
over us as a Relief Society, and for the
good counsel you have given us. Inasmuch
as you have been called to go on a mission
to the nations of the earth, we unitedly re-
solve to pay this tribute of respect to you.
	Resolved, That, whereas you are going
to preach the Gospel in a foreign land, we
will unitedly sustain you with our faith and
prayers.
	Resolved, That in your absence we will
be diligent in obeying your counsels, in
looking after the poor, caring for the sick
and administering comfort wherever it is 
needed.
	Resolved, We realize the loss we shall
sustain in your absence, but still we say,
Go, thou Herald of Salvation, at thy Mas-
ter's call! be of good cheer, He that has
watched over thee in the past will guard
thee in the future. Search out the humble
and honest in heart, and bring them to Zion.
And may the blessings of the Lord rest
upon you and your family, and preserve
them all in your absence; and may this
mission add many stars to your crown, is
the prayer of your sisters of Smithfield.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions
be presented to Bishop Roskelly, a copy
put upon the records of this society, and a
copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
		Adeline Barber,		}
		Martha Williams,		} Committee.
		Sarah Woodruff,		}
		Elizabeth Juchaw,	}


AN invisible hair-net  is not  invisible by
a long shot when carried along the street on
a young man’s coat-button.
 Ex.Empress Eugenie has arrived at Cape
Town, South  Africa, in good  health.


