A SCHOOL ENTERTAINMENT.

   The people of Gunnison had  the pleasure
of witnessing an  entertainment,  given by
the school children, Thursday evening April
22nd, under the directorship of their teach-
er, Miss Lizzie  Stevenson.  The Choruses
by the school, "Welcome to all,"  "Always
cheerful," "I'll think of these things," etc.;
the duet  "Joyfully sing," by Sarah Metcalf
and Violet  Gledhill;  the  solos  "Kiss her
rosy cheeks for me" and now I lay me down
to sleep," by Adelaide  Lisonbee and  Eliza
Knighton;  the  recitations,  "A  visit from
St. Nicholas,"  "What  we  shall  do in the
different kinds  of  weather"  and  "The
Donkey's Lesson," by Hattie Kearnes, Niels
Hanson and  Austin W.  Kearnes;  the  Tab-
leau  "The  Evening  Prayer;" a  recitation
"We are six little girls" by Emma Metcalf,
Amanda Lisonbee,  Annie  Jenson,  Annie
Kearnes, Mary Bardsley and Hannah Han-
son;  a charade "The  Masterpiece" by Aug-
usta Sw[-]lberg, Sarah Metcalf, August Swal-
berg and George Pickett;  interspersed with
organ solos  by  Master  Albert Tallstrup,
were all such gems and  rendered so  pleas-
antly, that it would be difficult to say which
was the gem of gems.  It was a feast to the
hearts as well as the minds of those present.
Their delighted  countenances,  told  how
highly  it  was  appreciated.  Parents and
friends of the  children, were surprised, de-
lighted;  proud of their children, and grate-
ful  to  Miss Stevenson, for bringing along
and encouraged, to shine and give joy.
   Miss Lizzie Stevens is loudly  and  deser-
vedly praised for her perseverance in train-
ing the pupils.  She is as energetic  as  she
is amiable, and as a teacher gives great sat-
isfaction.  She is at present on a visit to her
home in Salt Lake  City.  We  wish  her a
pleasant time, and a safe return.
						     H.M.


OTERO, who attempted the assassination
of King Alphonso, was executed at Madrid

 	WHEN the custom of banging the hair
goes out, how many grown-up women will
look at the photographs taken in their teens
and wonder how they could have been such
idiots! And how many of those photo-
graphs will be hidden away, mutilated and
otherwise banged.

	WITHOUT earnestness no man is ever
great, or does really great things. He may
be the cleverest of men. He may be brili-
ant, entertaining, popular; but he will want
weight. No soul-moving picture was ever
painted that had not in it the depth of shad-
ow,—Peter Bayne.


A $1,000 GUARANTEE.—Warner's Safe
Kidney and Liver Cure will positively cure
Bright's Disease and Diabetes; and it is
guaranteed that it will also cure 99 per cent.
of all other kidney diseases, 95 per cent. of
all liver diseases, and will help in every
case without injury to the system, when
taken according to directions, and the sum
of $1,000 will be paid to any person who 
can prove that it has failed to do this.—H.
H. Warner & Co.


