R. S. REPORTS.
			_____
	BLOOMINGTON, IDAHO, April 4, 1880.
	DEAR SISTER WELLS.—At the Instance
of Mrs.  Sarah  Greenhalgh,  President of
Bloomington Relief Society, a dinner party
was held in the Meeting House on Friday,
2d inst., at which a sumptuous  repast  was
served; after which meeting was called  to
order by Bishop  Hulme, prayer  offered  by
Bro. Greenhalgh.  Bp. Hulme wished every
one&nbsp;to contribute to  the  entertainment  as
they felt  disposed.  Father  Patten  related
his first meeting with the Prophet Joseph
Smith,  in  Nauvoo, and spoke  of some of
the scenes  that  transpired  there;  was  one
of those who witnessed the  battle with the
mob, and related some of the incidents well
known to the Saints.  Father Thornick be-
ing called upon responded by a song. Sis-
'ter Ann  Womsley  made  a few  remarks.
Father  Nelson  addressed  the  company in
the  Danish  language, Bro.  Fred. Jacobson
giving the  interpretation;  also  bore  testi-
mony to the truth of this work.  Sister M.
Roberts sang a song of her own composition.
A step dance by Bro. Ward, Sisters Haddock
and Womsley;  ditto,  Father  Nelson  and
Sisters Nelson  and  Christiansen,  followed
by a song by Father Jarvis.
	Sister Lindsay, Stake President of Relief
Societies, then addressed  us, and said she
was pleased with a party got up as this was;
to honor the aged in  our  midst; felt such
meetings a comfort and  stimulus  to  us  to
work for the Father who sent us here.  Said
it was our duty to be obedient to the Word
of God, and  that we could  not  receive a
blessing without laboring for it.  Urged us
to live up to our privileges and do our duty
with cheerfulness, and be punctual&nbsp;in at-
tending our meetings.
	Song by Bro. Long.  Pres.  Hart  said  he
was pleased with the meeting, and  happy
to be one with us on the present  occasion.
Congratulated the Bishop on his large family;
indulged in a few laughable remarks, and
said we had reason to  be  thankful we  had
the privilege of beholding the progress of
the kingdom of God.  Said we had no cause
to fear death, if we lived up to our  privi-
leges.  Complimented  the sisters  on  the
success of their dinner.  Felt to commend
Bp. Hulme and his associates on a meeting
of this kind, and thought it a foretaste  of
the Order of Enoch.
	Quartette by Bro. and Sister  Greenhalgh
and Bro. and Sister Jarvis.  Sister  Herod
spoke a short time.  Pres. Greenhalgh  felt
the Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  our  midst, and
hoped this would not be the last gathering
of this kind.  Bro. J. Walker addressed us
in a very interesting manner.  Song by Bp.
Hulme.  Recitation, J. Womsley.  Dance,
J. Haddock.  Song, Pres. Hart.  Sisters R.
Walker  and  E. Long made a few remarks,
after which Bp. Hulme addressed us.  Dis-
missed  by Pres. Hart.
	A vote of thanks was tendered Bp. Hulme
and committee.  Following  are  the names
and ages  of some of the company:  Father
Patten, 81 years;  Sister Yenson, 80;  Father
Nelson, 77;  Sister  A. Womsley,  76;  Sister
Holt, 71;  Sister Nelson, 76; Sister Herod, 76;
Sister M. Peterson, 74; Father Jarvis, 68;
Sister C. Peard, 61; Sister Collins, 66; Sister
Roberts, 60.
	Yours Respectfully,	
&nbsp;&nbsp;			ELIZABETH PIGGOT, Sec’y.
				_______
	Report of  the  Annual  meeting  of  the
Primary  Association  of  Smithfield  held
March  27th,  1880,  commencing  at ten
o’clock. After  the opening  exercises the
[column break]
minutes and report of the Association  were
read and accepted.  Questions  were  then
asked by Pres. Martha Williams from  the
History of Joseph Smith, and were prompt-
ly answered.  Songs and  recitations were
then given by  the  children.  A number of
the brethren present  spoke encouragingly
of  the  good  this  Association  was  doing.
Bishop  Roskelly then told the  children to
nominate their own officers which they did,
sustaining the following named officers un-
animously.  Martha  Williams,  President;
Rebecca Hillyard, and Lillian  Jones, Coun-
selors;  Sarah E. Juchaw Secretary, Emma
Neilson, Assistant Secretary,  and  Hannah
Christiansen,  Treasurer.  A  concert  was
held  in  the  evening  beginning  at seven
o’clock, in which 54  children participated.
The songs,  recitations  and  dialogues were
well rendered and gave general satisfaction;
the proceeds from the concert  were  $11.25.
After  deducting  expenses  the  remainder,
$8.00, was presented to our beloved Bishop,
who has  been called  on a mission to Great
Britain.  He has  ever been a kind  friend
and counselor to us and we shall miss him.
We are trying  to  prorgess in every  good
thing so that  we may  be  prepared  for the
great future that awaits us.  This  Associa-
tion comprises 6 officers and  241  members.
Total officers and members 247;  have  held
51 meetings during the year.  Received in
donations $5.20cts.  Disbursed in books and
cards, $4.90cts; have also donated $5.00 in
quilts to the Logan Temple, and we have 2
bushels and 3 pks. of wheat and 9 and a half
qts. of beans on hand.  praying God  to  bless
all those who labor  for  the  welfare  of Zion,
I remain your sister in the Gospel,
			SARAH E. JUCHAW, Sec’y.
				_____
	Statistical and Financial  Report  of  the
Davis Stake Relief Society for the year end-
ing April 16, 1880.  Number of  officers and
members reported, 414; average attendance,
112;  meetings held, 208;  EXPONENT taken,
59: amount of cash and property  on  hand
April 16,  1879, $1105.84; amount  received,
762,75;  disbursed $637.19; on  hand  April
16, 1880,  $1,231.40; of wheat on hand 627
bus., 7 lbs.
&nbsp;		MINERVA E. RICHARDS.
	Relief Society Stake Secretary.
		________
	Having enjoyed the  Spirit  of the  Lord
so abundantly in the meetings held  in this
place Tuesday, April 6, in commemoration
of the Fiftieth anniversary of  this Church,
Sister  Ellen  Lunt,  President  of Parowan
Stake  R. S., desired  the  sisters  to  attend
their meeting to be held on Thursday, April
8, in  the  Social Hall, Cedar City, that they
might also partake of the blessings of God.
In obedience to request, a large  number  of
the sisters, also a few brethren, met in the
Hall at 2 P. M.,  April  8.  The  brethren,
upon being requested, addressed the sisters,
encouraging them to continue in their good
works  and labor  of love;  also  spoke in the
interest of  silk  raising and other home pro-
ductions.  The  brethren  in a special man-
ner  exhorted the sisters  to  show to their
children examples worthy of imitation, and
to  use  good language becoming  Saints  of
God.  Several  of  the  sisters addressed the
meeting, bearing their testimony to the di-
vinity of plural marriage and thanking God
that they had been counted worthy of hav-
ing the privilege  of  sustaining  one  of his
holy  commandments.  The  Spirit  of the
Lord  was  abundantly  poured  out.  Many
more of  the sisters were  desirous  to  speak
had time permitted.
	It was  also unanimously agreed  that the
[column break]
grain owned  by  the  Society  and  already
having been disbursed by our Bishop should
be  loaned without interest  being charged.
After the meeting all present sat  down to a
picnic supper, which  closed the  afternoon
very agreeably.
	I will here state that this society has pur-
chased a piece  of land  for  the  purpose  of
raising  mulberry trees  and  making  some
little advancement  in  the progress  of  this
branch of home  industry.  The Society in
general  seem  alive  to  their  duties,  and
realize that we  should be co-workers with
the  brethren in all  the  noble  enterprises
entered  into to sustain and build up God’s
kingdom.
		J. P. MACKLEPRANG,
	Secretary Cedar  City Relief Society.
			_______
	The Juab  County  Stake  Relief  Society
held their Annual Conference  on  the  16th
of April, 1880, in the Nephi Meeting House,
commencing at  10 o’clock, A. M.  Present
on the stand, the officers of the  Stake  and
branch, also the President  and counselor of
the Mona branch. Pres. Teasdale and  Coun-
selor K. H. Brown, Patriarch Jacob G. Big-
ler, Bishop  Charles Sperry and Bro. George
Kendall.
	After the usual opening  exercises  the
morning was occupied  by  the  Primary and
Young Ladies’ Associations in  reading and
giving  verbal  reports, which  show  a  very
visible improvement since their last report.
Pres. Teasdale. occupied&nbsp;a short  time  in
speaking to the little  folks, which  was  cal-
culated to encourage  them  to  be  diligent
and persevere in  the  good work  in which
they seem to delight.
	The afternoon was occupied by the Relief
Societies  of  the  Stake,  Pres.  Goldsbrough
presiding, who made a few remarks  on the
progress of the Society and the duties of its
members.  Also gave  a  general  invitation
to  the  brethren  to  visit our meetings and
see for themselves how we get along.
 Remarks were  made  by  Pres. M. Pitch-
forth, of Nephi, Pres.  Somerville, of Mona,
Counselors Kendall and Picton, of the Stake,
Pres.  Teasdale,  Bishop  Sperry,  and  Bro.
Love;  all spoke of  the improvement in our
societies, and gave us  good counsel and en-
couraged us to diligence.  The Spirit of  the
Lord  was  in  our  midst and  we had an ex-
cellent meeting.
	Statisticol [sic]&nbsp;and Financial Report of  Juab
Stake  for the year  ending  April  16, 1880:
Teachers,  56;  members,  232,  total,  288;
meetings held, 28; average attendance; 135;
WOMAN'S EXPONENT&nbsp;taken, 18.
	Financial: On hand at date of  last report,
property,  $2,018.95;  wheat, 93&nbsp;1/2&nbsp;bushels;
receipts during the year, property, $462.98;
wheat,  26 1/4;  disbursements  to  the  poor,
property, $308.04; Temple, $153.75;  home
industries, $4.00;  books, $3.00;&nbsp;material for
building and lots, $2,153.25;  on hand, cash,
$50;  property,  $56.63;  wheat, 197 bushels;
16 pounds, valued at $1.18 per bushel.  Re-
lief Society Stake officers,
	Amelia Goldsbrough, President,
	Elizabeth Kendall,		[curly bracket indicating&nbsp;&nbsp;		Counselors.
	Jane Picton,&nbsp;&nbsp;			Elizabeth Kendall and Jane Picton]
	Amy L. Bigler, Secretary.
	Ever praying for the success of Zion, we
remain
		MRS. A. GOLDSBROUGH, Prest.
		A. L. Bigler, Sec'y.


IN old times men used their power of
painting to show the objects of faith; in
later times they used the objects of faith
that they might show their powers of paint-
ing.—J. Ruskin.


