OUR LITTLE PAPER.

	It is not at all pretty; in fact it is exceedingly
plain in its appearance. But remember its
dress is home manufacture [paper.] It is often
grumbled about for its want of beauty, but it is
patiently enduring it all for the sake of princi-
ple. Practising what it preaches. But joking
aside, there never was a time since the publi-
cation of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, that it was
so widey and truly appreciated, we think, as
during the present year,
	We are in receipt of let'ers from several parts
of the United States, England, the Sandwich
Islands, New Zealand, Australia and the East
Indies as well as various parts of this Territory
testifying to the good influence of this little
paper wherever it is circulated.
	The influence of woman upon society is un-
iversally acknowledged,but somehow the world
has been very doubtful of women's papers,
whether their educational influence for good
would predominate. Women are now giving
practical proof in this regard for their papers
are being circulated far and wide, treating on
all the variety of subjects in which the world
at large are interested. Newspapers may be
made adaptable to the various conditions of
peoples,and educational upon all questions that
agitate the public mind from time to time, in-
deed such should be the aim. What would the
world of mankind be without newspapers; and
still further what would it be without woman's
publications? Women have been considered
only capable of novel writing, or exceptional
women perchance now and then classed as
poets, and a few more as rhymists, but now
how different things are. Women edit and
publish papers themselves, and assist in the
editorial department of those edited and pub-
lished by men. And it has actually come to
pass that a woman stands to day at the head
of the class,the greatest novel writer of the age
Original in her style and unique in her philoso-
phy of men and nature. But that is neither
her nor there except it is a strong point gained
in the cause of woman's intellectual equality.
	The EXPONENT has been instrumental in re-
moving much of the prejudice which has ex-
isted in regard to the condition of women in this
Church. Through its columns the sisters old
and young have spoken to the world, as they
could not have done in any other way; giving
free expression to their views and feelings in a
simple and untrammelled manner that could
not fail to give evidence of their liberty of
thought and action, and their religious sincer-
ity. They have also told the story of their own
hardships and persecutions suffered in conse-
quence of the bigotry and superstition that is
always opposed to the dawn of new light.
	The women of Utah need this channel of

[Column 2]
communication with each other and their
sisters in the world, and they should exert
themselves to sustain the paper and improve
it by able contributions to its columns. until it
attains a dignity and solidity proportionate to
the position they occupy as women of God.
	We trust that in the near future it may be so
improved in its typographical appearance as to
recommend itself more favorably to its readers.
	We entreat the sisters throughout the Terri-
tory and especially those interested in the vari
ous women's organizations to use their utmost
influence to extend its circulation. Would
it were possible to get at least five hundred
(a very mo[-]est figure indeed) new subscribers
to volume nine. Our sisters ought at least
to be able to keep up one journal exclusively
for their own benefit,when the brethren main-
tain so many publications. Let every mother
make up her mind to take it, she certainly
needs it, and the money will not be missed.
Women who are raising families should devote
a small portion of time each day to reading,
and become familiar with the doings of the
times in which they are living, what other
women are doing, and not narrow down to
their own little household and know nothing
of the great, busy, bustling, growing world
around them,and into which their children are
to be ushered. What would have been known
even here in Utah of the public work the sisters
have done, and are doing, had it not been for
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	In the households of the saints it is like a
pleasant friend with whom they have grown
familiar, and elsewhere it carries glad tiIdngs
of the Gospel of salvatio n.


