BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

This has been proclaimed as a year of jubilee
to the Latter-day  Saints  and  I  truly  rejoice
that I have had the privilege of being numbered
with those who have come up  through  much
tribulation and gained a knowledge for  myself
that this is the  work  of  God  which neither
wealth nor worldly honors  could tempt  me to
part with.  This is a world of sorrow  and  dis-
appointment.  Life and every thing here is un-
certain, but beyond  is eternal life and exalta-
tion.  The experience of the Latter-day Saints
during the past fifty years has  disciplined  and
prepared them in a measure for the great and
wonderful  changes  which  are coming, while
those who know not God are groping as it were
in midnight darkness.  The  blessings enjoyed
by us in these peaceful vales are very great and
I think that we can well afford  to  be  looked
down upon  and hated, for  we  know that the
time has come for the Lord to favor Zion.  We
no longer walk by  faith, alone, but by sight.
In the midst  of the greatest  persecutions  and
trials that the Saints  have  been  subjected to,
they have had that to  comfort  and sustain
them which the outside  world  cannot  under-
stand, and when drivings, burnings, whippings
and other cruelties were  inflicted  upon  them,
their spirits  would  have fainted  had  not  the
Lord through  the  Prophet  Joseph told  them
that in due time  He would come  out in  swift
judgment  against their  enemies,  who  should
be cut  off from before Him and in  his own due
time He would bear the  Saints  off conquerors
in  all  things.  In  their  sublime  faith  they
trusted in his promises, and I can testify that I
have witnessed during  those  scenes the great-
est calmness and patience  and  they  even  re-
joiced in the midst of their  afflictions.  As  an
example, I copy a few lines  from  my father’s
journal “We were brought up at  the  point  of
the bayonet and compelled  to  sign  a  dead  o
trust, transferring all our property to defray the
expenses of  the war made on  us by  the  State
of Missouri.  This was very cheerfully complied
with because  we  could  not  help ourselves.
When we walked up to sign  the deeds of trust
to pay those assassins for murdering ourbreth-
ren and sisters and their children, robbing us of
our lands and possessions and  all  we  had  on
earth and other such like services they expected
to see us cast down and sorrowful;  but I testify
as an eye witness  that  the  brethren  rejoiced
and praised the Lord, taking joyfully the des-
poiling of their goods,  There were judges and
magistrates, Methodists, Presbyterians, Camp-
belites  and  other  sectarian  priests  stood  by
and saw all the goings on, exulting over us,and
it seemed to make  them more angry  that  we
bore our misfortune so cheerfully.  Said Judge
Cameron with an oath, “see those d---d creat-
ures laugh and kick  up  their  heels,  they  are
whipped but  not conquered.” For me  to un- ’
dertake to write what I saw and felt I have not
the ability to do it, but I will let  eternity  re-
veal the scenes of those days.  I can say before
God and angels, heaven  and  earth  that I am
innocent of violating  any  law  of the State  of
Missouri,  and  my brethern are  as  pure  and
clean as I am, true to their God and their coun-
try and as Jesus  said  with  the  measure they
meted to the Latter-day  Saints  it  shall  be
measured to them again or upon all those who
consented  to it,  four-fold, running  over and 
preesed |down, and as the Lord God Almighty
liveth I shall live  to  see  it  come  to pass.”
Missouri suffered  all that  at  the  time of  the
war between the  north  and  south,  and  one
week ago that state and a portion of Illinois was
visited by a terrible  cyclone which: swept a-
way whole towns and villages and men, women
and children  destroying  everything  before it.
We scarcely take up a paper that has not  some
frightful account of deaths  by cyclones,  fires,
railroad  accidents, earthquakes, floods, the sea
heaving beyond its  bounds,  famines,  and also
pestilence which is more  terrible  than all  the
rest and when I think of the good  and the  in-
nocent who must  suffer with the  wicked, my
heart pains me and these things we know have
scarcely began.
It is forty years or more since the Latter-day
Saints were  driven  from  their  homes  in  the
State  of  Missouri,  and  although I  was  quite
young those scenes are  fresh  in my  memory.
I well remember the  night  that  the  Prophet
and others of the brethren gave themselves  up
to save the rest  of  us  from  being  massacred,
which the mob,  numbering  about  7,000,  had
threatened to do.  After the brethren  had  de-
livered up their weapons, the mob  surrounded
the city and commenced plundering, and com-
miting  horrible  outrages  upon  some  of  the
helpless women, the brethren being  prisoners.
Our house being  on the  outskirts, my  mother
took her children and went into  the  heart  of
the city to  stay  all  night  with  Sister  Mary
Smith, who was lying sick, but previous to go-
ing  there  we  called  on  the  widow  of  David
Patten, who had  been  killed  but  a  few  days
before.  I can never forget her fearless and de-
termined  look.  A round her waist was a belt
to which was attached a large bowie-knife.  She
had a fire in her stove and  a  large iron kettle
full of boiling waterand a  big  tin  dipper  in
her hand intending, she said, tb fight if any of
the demons came there.  She did  not  seem in
the least excited, her countenance was perfectly
calm and  she shed  no  tears,  the  fountains
seemed to have dried up and she only thought
of avenging the blood of her husband.
The parting  scene  between  Hyrum  Smith
and  his family  was heartrending.  He was


marched by a strong guard of heartless fiends
who ordered him to take his last farewell,
and his wife was told that she need never
think that she would see her husband again.
In less than a fortnight from that date, her
first child; a son (now one of the Twelve Apos-
tles) was born. She and Sister Patten were very
dear friends of my mother, both having lived
with her in Kirtland previous to marrying
brother Hyrum. Sister Patten stopped with my
mother one summer, while her husband and
my father went East on missions. Brother and
Sister Patten were the first to welcome us to
their house in Far West, where we stayed a
few days to recnperate as our bodies were weak-
ened by sickness,in consequence of the arduous
journey from Kirtland.
	(To be Continued.)


