HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON Tuesday May 4, we had the pleasure of
attending tne annual meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of the 19th Ward Mrs. Rachel Whipple
presiding. The meeting was exceedingly inter-
esting. Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith,M. Isabella
Horne, Presendia M. Kimball and other able
speakers addressed the meeting. Mother
Whitney sang a song of Zion her voice ringing
out clear and musical. The meeting adjourned
to the Relief Society Hall near by where a
bounteous repast was laid, but previous to par-
taking of it Elder Wm. Asper made a dedicat-
ory prayer. This building is owned by the So-
ciety and has recently been remodelled and
nicely fitted up. The floor is entirely covered
with a substantial rag carpet; and the windows
are ornamented with handsome netted curtains
the handiwork of one of the sisters. We con-
gratulate the Society on their house and hope
others may be able to do likewise.

	A Treatise on Sericulture in pamphlet form
has just been issued from the Star Office in this
city. The book has been compiled carefully
from the best authors extant by Daniel Graves
of Provo whose zeal and labors for the estab-
lishment of this useful home industry are high-
ly commendable. It is certainly a good text
book for those who purpose doing anything in
this branch of work. The Index gives this list
of subjects. Synopsis of History of Sericulture,
Cultivation and Variety of Trees, Various kinds
of Silk-worms, Diseases of Worms, Causes and
Remedies, Feeding, Cocoonery and Hatching,
Preservation of Eggs and Cocoons,Notes. The
book contains forty-two pages and is well
worth the money. It ought to be circulated
throughout the Territory. As it is the inten-
tion of the officers and directors of the parent
Silk Association to push forward this creditable
enterprize at a more rapid speed than it has
heretofore. The book is for sale at this office.
Price 25 cts.

	ON Monday afternoon May 3d, a select
party of the friends of Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith assembled at her residence in honor of
the lady's birthday. Mrs. Rachel R. Grant
was the originator of the entertainment and as-
sisted the hostess in doing the honors on the
happy occasion. Among the guests were Pres-
John Taylor and a number of the Apostles.
Wilford Woodruff, Erastus Snow, D. H. Wells
Joseph F. Smith also Sisters Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, Eliza R. Snow Smith, Hannah T.
King,M. Isabelle Horne and many other veter-
an and staunch sisters as well as brethren, rel-
latives and old time friends of the lady whom
they had met to congratulate and happify.
	Refreshments were served at six o'clock and
while the guests were seated at table, "Sister


Eliza" read an original poem dedicated to Sister
Smith, which we publish in this number. The
evening was spent in conversing and some re-
marks were made by Elder Woodruff and
Pres. John Taylor. Mother Whiteny sang in
her most happy manner A Song of Zion This
venerable lady is well known to thousands of
the Latter-day Saints, to whom she is specially
endeared for many amiable qualities and her
ministrations of love in days of adversity and
also for her services in the Temples and House
of the Lord. Although she is now in her
eightieth year she is in the enjoyment of health
and her spiritual faculties are brighter if pos-
sible than ever.


[Column 1]

