July Entertainments.

In almost every happy home in the country, the holiday spirit is rife as we approach the "Glorious Fourth," and a Fourth of July party can be made a most picturesque and patriotic affair. The flag should be in evidence everywhere; decorate the house with bunting and flowers. A good combination would be found in the wild scarlet poppies, daisies and larkspur or gentians. Sing the national songs; read the Declaration of Independence; renew again your pledge of allegiance to the stars and stripes; and write a "round robin" letter to your boy in the service, detailing the various events of the day.

On Pioneer Day, July 24, hold big family reunions; honor the memory of the brave Utah pioneers; decorate with the sego lily; sing the old "Mormon" hymns and our state song, "Utah, We Love Thee," and other Utah songs. Hold community celebrations of both holidays, with music, oration, pageantry and songs.

A "glad" party

Decorate the rooms with gladiolus and gypsophila (baby's breath). Pass cards decorated with a "glad" quotation, or a smiling baby, cut from a magazine. Allow ten minutes for each guest to write ten reasons, "why I am glad." Another game might be to "give the best recipe for happiness." A prize may be offered for the most original recipe.

A "glad" game

Answers all to commence with "Glad." A girl's name (Gladys). An open space in the forest (Glade). With pleasure (Gladly) joyous, gay or pleased (Gladsome). Grand old man of England (Gladstone, William E.). The sword lily (Gladiolus). A moderate degree of joy (Gladness). A traveling bag (Gladstone). A swordsman (Gladiator).

Prizes may be a bouquet of gladioli or a copy of Pollyanna, the Glad Book. Serve gooseberry pie with whipped cream, gingersnaps and grape juice.

The months of July and August are usually vacation months. Every year sees many new homes built in the canyons and various resorts of the state, and one of the first instincts of the happy possessors is to invite their friends to share the new home's pleasure with them. It is one of the greatest compliments one can receive, to be invited to become a guest in another's home. In sending out the invitation, it is well to suggest the time of arrival and departure; this can be done in a tactful, courteous manner, as for instance: "Won't you give us the happiness of entertaining you from Thursday evening July 18, until the Sunday following the twenty-fourth. There will be a lawn party on the 20th, a dance on one evening, a fishing trip and our community pioneer celebration and dance. Looking forward to your visit, I am, etc."

An invitation of this kind gives a guest a definite understanding of the length of her visit, what entertainment she may expect; and it also suggests what she will need to bring in the way of clothes. It is in keeping with the true spirit of hospitality for the hostess to meet her guests at the station, or send some member of the family, if the hostess cannot go. The guest room should show the personal touch of the mistress of the house; the bed should be well provided with pillows and comfortables; plenty of bath requisites and towels provided—the usual "guest" towel is painfully inadequate. The hours set for meals and family worship should be mentioned at first and the guest will endeavor to conform as nearly as possible to her host's mode of living. She will give as little trouble as possible, keep her room in order, be punctual at meals, enter heartily into all the various forms of amusement offered by her hostess, showing by her responsiveness that she is enjoying herself. A happy, animated guest is ample reward for all the hostess's pains and the extra effort of entertainment. In entertaining your friend, give the best you can afford—of yourself, your home comforts, and your friendship. Hospitality has for its greatest aim the pleasure of its guests, and it "shares," which is perhaps its truest definition.

When a guest returns home, she should at once dispatch a cordial note of thanks to her late hostess, with greetings to the various members of the family, expressing her appreciation of her friend's hospitality.