Home Economics Department.

Janette A. Hyde

We hope all our students and members understood that the time of the summer's lesson work would be given over to our pressing labors of conservation and Red Cross activities. Outline and canning suggestions have been prepared for each stake President. The U. S. Government officials are sending out bulletins and supplying demonstrators for conservation of food, food substitutes, canning fruits, vegetables and meats, drying fruits and vegetables, with quantities of information on Child Welfare and infant feeding. All of these with local conditions specialized and emphasized are in the hands of our Stake and Ward Presidents to arrange and develop into lesson form as their needs and conditions may indicate. We give the following suggestions for summer studies in economy in food:

Object: To educate the family—housewives, fathers, and children—in the value of foods for the body. 
1. The most necessary foods. 
2. The proper amount of foods. 
3. Foods that are the most necessary for us to spare at the present time. 
4. Substitutes for those foods. 
5. How to make the substitutes palatable so as to take the place of the foods formerly used.

Method of Presentation 
Work out the lesson projects in the committees of the Relief Society. Secure literature on food substitutes and place in the hands of as many women as possible. Secure the services of good demonstrators. Give public and private demonstrations. Interest children in the use of proper foods. Keep in touch with newspaper and magazine articles with regard to the food situation.
 
 .

By O. H. Benson, United States Department of Agriculture.

Professor J. C. Hogenson, of the Extension Division of the Utah Agricultural College, is in receipt of a special set of home canning instructions prepared by O. H. Benson, of the United States Department of Agriculture and all societies and interested individuals can obtain these pointed instructions from the A. C. of Utah or by applying to the U. S. government for Bulletin 839. These instructions should be followed very carefully by all home canners if entire success is to be insured.

1. Follow but one set of instructions. If you combine two it will lead you into difficulties and cause the loss of food products. 
2. The instructions are based on the use of fresh, firm, sound, ripe products. When canning vegetables which have stood in the market place over 24 hours, increase the time of sterilization as given in this bulletin about 20 percent. 
3. Do not begin canning large amounts. First, try out a few packs thoroughly and determine for yourself whether you understand the instructions and can follow them. 
4. Use good rubbers. Most of the rubbers which are furnished with glass jars will not stand the boiling required for the pressure and might better be discarded and good rubbers procured. Rubber rings for the average standard pint and quart jars, etc. should be 5/16 of an inch wide. They should be cut 12 to the inch, that is, 12 rubber rings placed one upon the other will measure one inch in thickness. They should stand up under sterilization in boiling water or in steam under pressure for at least three hours without injury to the rubber. Good rubbers will stretch and return promptly to place without changing the inside diameter. They should be reasonably firm and able to stand abrupt bending without breakage. This description does not apply to rings for the special types of jars on the market. 
5. Reports during the past 5 years indicate that 75% of the spoilage of food products in home canning is due to the use of poor rubbers, old Mason tops, and defective joints, springs and caps. 
6. Success in home canning by the one-period cold-pack method depends upon a full understanding of the entire process. Observe especially that green vegetables should

be blanched in live steam, tubers, in hot water for not less than 5 minutes. Then dip them quickly in cold water. Pack at once in hot sterile jars and add boiling water. All greens, pod vegetables, green peppers, etc. should be added immediately, rubbers and tops put in place and the jars partially sealed. These steps, if properly and quickly taken, have largely to do with the success of the method. Final success rests, of course, with the sterilization. Food products should be sterilized for the period given in Farmers' Bulletin 839.

Read carefully all instructions with reference to the handling of pressure canners to avoid exhausting of liquids, syrups, etc. When canning in territory with an altitude of over 1000 feet increase the time given in the tables from 5 to 10 per cent for each additional 1000 feet in altitude. Do this without fail or some of the products will be lost. 7. In canning fruit the syrup should be prepared in a separate vessel and poured over the fresh fruit, in the hot jar. Some food products with high acid contents, like cherries and plums, shrivel and shrink too much if a heavy syrup is used. 8. The flavor of sweet corn and peas canned for home use is greatly improved by the addition of sugar instead of salt. 9. In canning tomatoes be sure to scald until the skins crack, dip in cold water, then cut the cores out, remove skins, and pack at once into hot glass jars. Use a wooden spoon for packing purposes and pack carefully. A well-ripened tomato may be placed at the top and pressed down to fill all crevices. Allow a level teaspoonful of salt to the quart. Wipe off the joints before the rubber rings are placed in position. Then place the rubber rings and caps in position, partially tighten the tops, and sterilize. 10. "Flat sour," which develops in canned vegetables, especially with greens, asparagus, peas, and sweet corn, is caused by insufficient sterilization, by canning old, deteriorated food products, or by improper blanching and cold-dipping. 11. Blanching and cold dipping all vegetables before packing, if properly done, will not in any way injure the character and quality of the product. On the other hand, it will remove dirt and bacteria and materially aid the sterilizing process. These preliminary steps will also make it unnecessary in tin canning, to exhaust the products. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams. We have taken the following from "The War Camp Community Service:" Church the Foundation. "When the War Camp Community Service of the War and Navy Department Commissions on Training Camp Activities undertook the important work of replacing for our soldiers on leave the influence for good which they left behind when they suddenly severed their home ties and were precipitated into an entirely new and different environment, the first task was to determine which of these influences was the most important. The verdict was instantaneous and unanimous. The boys must not leave their religion behind. "One of the first steps, therefore, of the scores of Community Organizers which the War Camp Community Service sent into the communities adjacent to our great training camps and cantonments was to ascertain to what church the soldiers belonged and to see that they were invited to attend the local church of that denomination wherever one existed. "The effect has been little short of miraculous. Clergymen in these communities who formerly preached to slender congregations have found themselves addressing packed churches of serious-eyed, khaki-clad youths. In many instances the churches are far from large enough, and open-air meetings are held on Sundays both inside and outside the camps. Many youths who attended church frequently at home have accepted the invitation to go and sit and worship with 'folks that look like home folks.' " "The first amendment to the Constitution of the United States guarantees religious freedom. War Camp Community Service proceeds on the principle of organizing every community it enters as a miniature America, a little United States which alone can form a coherent whole, the great United States. It is an organization of the people of the United States, and its work consists of every form of social service calculated to stimulate the morale and preserve the physical well-being of the soldiers." We are more than pleased to tell our readers that in the near HOME ECONOMICS. 409 camps, where the majority of our Latter-day Saint boys are, we have Chaplain Brigham H. Roberts and Chaplain Calvin S. Smith to look after the spiritual welfare of our sons. Children and War Food Substitutes. "The necessity of guarding the food supply of your children, and assuring to them an abundant diet of properly selected foods, is assuming every day a more critical phase as the war stringency increases and demands for the conservation of foodstuffs become more urgent. A most wholesome educational movement is going forward among the American people in the use of different foods. Nature is exceedingly adaptable, and the healthy human being can be fed with a fair degree of success on widely varying diets. "But while the adult may thrive very well on substitute foods of various kinds and even be better off with some of these dietary changes, it is not always true that young children will profit by the same course.

Moyle, of the Alpine stake, passed away. She was a devoted worker in the Relief Society and served as president of the Alpine stake Relief Society for many years. Mrs. Moyle was known for her kindness and dedication to the welfare of others. She leaves behind a legacy of service and love, having been a mother to ten children and a grandmother to numerous grandchildren.

Bear River City, Box Elder Stake. Mrs. Ellen K. Christensen, a beloved member of the Relief Society, passed away recently. She was a dedicated worker and contributed greatly to the community. Mrs. Christensen was known for her compassion and willingness to help those in need. Her passing is a great loss to the Relief Society and to all who knew her.

These women, through their service and dedication, have left a lasting impact on their communities and the Relief Society. Their contributions will be remembered and cherished by those who had the privilege of knowing them.

Moyle, one of the active Relief Society workers of the Alpine stake, passed away. Mrs. Moyle was a woman of high and lofty ideals, wise in counsel, careful in judgment, and was a courageous worker in the cause of truth. Her example has been an inspiration to the Alpine Relief Society, where she has long and faithfully labored.

Oneida Stake. The Relief Societies in the Oneida stake have been very active during the past year in Red Cross work, and although they have done an immense amount of work, they report that their Red Cross activities have not interfered in any way with the regular work of the ward societies. The Relief Societies of the Oneida stake conducted their Red Cross drive in Franklin county. Two thousand dollars was apportioned to the county, and $2,355.07 was collected, $1,700 of which was collected in five days. Responding to an emergency call for hospital supplies, the Relief Societies made up 1,200 pil-

412 .

lows, valued at $900, paying $48.42 for shipment for same. Thirty Christmas boxes for the soldier boys at a cost of $45 were sent to Camp Lewis. From a dance and musical entertainment $242.42 was raised. This stake was also interested in the last Liberty Loan campaign. The Stake Board and fourteen of the wards purchased each a $50 Liberty Bond, amounting in all $750.

Liberty Stake. The Liberty stake Relief Society has accomplished a great deal for the Red Cross during the month of February. They have made 368 bandages, 153 bed shirts, 21 pajama suits, 175 towels, and have knitted 29 sweaters and 275 pairs of socks. One day a week, this stake sends workers to the Red Cross gauze room; they average thirty-five women each day. One day recently fifty women made 935 surgical dressings. The women of this stake will work in the future every Friday in the gauze rooms at the Newhouse Hotel.