Current Topics. By James H. Anderson

Germany, while talking peace, is preparing to carry the war over into 1919. Wool prices have been fixed by the Government at the market rates prevailing July 1, 1917. The Pullman car service in the United States has been taken over by the Government. The Third Liberty Loan in the United States was taken by upwards of 17,000,000 subscribers. The Scandinavian countries are suffering greatly from lack of food, with a prospect of worse conditions ahead. Turkey, while losing in Asia, is being given additional territory in European Russia—the Crimea—by German diplomacy. Jews are now being persecuted worse than ever in those Russian districts where Germany is obtaining control. Nearly a million American troops are now in France, and the million mark is expected to be passed by July 1st. Tax valuations in Utah have gone up in 1918, by the action of tax officials, but the actual value of property has gone down. Mesopotamia was the scene of further advances of British troops during May, but the Turks have driven the Russians back. Chemical works at Oakdale, Pa., were blown up in May, with a loss of 200 lives. Highly explosive acid was the cause. In Switzerland, war conditions are so severe that there are few, if any, families who can obtain sufficient food for present needs. Coal prices in the United States are being kept level, so the people can provide for next winter, which may be more severe than the last.

418 .

Wheat and flour to the amount of 100,000 bushels, held by the Relief Societies in Utah, have been turned over to the Government. New Draft legislation requires all young men in the United States coming to twenty-one years of age on June 1 of each year to register for military service. "Work or fight" is the policy adopted by military officials in Washington for all young men coming within the draft age; the idler in common life is to be eliminated. American shipbuilding has been greatly accelerated during the past three months, and new ships are being turned into active service with marvelous rapidity. Belgian troops to the number of about 400, who have been fighting in Russia, were welcomed to Salt Lake City on May 22, en route to the western battle front in Belgium. The Red Cross request in May, for another $100,000,000, was readily responded to, the Rocky Mountain States being among those who over-subscribed their quota. Ostend, a German submarine base in Belgium, was closed by a heroic British expedition in May, through the sinking at the mouth of the harbor of a vessel loaded with concrete. The equal suffrage amendment to the national Constitution, which was to have been passed on by the United States Senate in May, has been laid over for the present. Equal suffrage propositions have been defeated in Prussia on the ground that they would destroy the present Prussian form of government—another argument in favor of woman suffrage. Food conservation and production is more a necessity for the United States than at any time in its past history. The women are relied to achieve the best results in meeting this need. In Palestine, during May.

the British established themselves more firmly on the line north of Jerusalem, and have done much to improve sanitary and traveling conditions in and around the holy city. 

The trial of I. W. W. members in Chicago in May shows conclusively the traitorous nature of that and kindred organizations, with which the Government, as it now recognizes, must deal severely. Aerial fighting has been a vast and important feature of the war during May. More than 1000 German airplanes were shot down in April and May, while the Entente Allies lost less than half that number. The English cruiser Moldavia was torpedoed and sunk in the English channel on May 24, fifty-three American lives being lost. Two of the killed were Utah boys, Willard A. Brown of Hoytsville, and Thaddeus Hodges of Mount Carmel. The Sinn Fein revolt in Ireland, planned for early in June, was checked in May by the arrest of its leaders. The revolt was largely promoted by Irishmen in America; the leader of the society was born in New York, the son of a Spanish father and Irish mother. German aerial raids on hospitals behind the British lines in France caused the death of more than 100 nurses on May 22. The Entente Allies do not bombard hospitals, but during May inflicted material damage on military establishments and munitions factories in Germany. Eugenics is to have intensive application in Germany according to present government plans there. The idea is to require all able-bodied men to marry before they are twenty years of age; then, in a score of years or so, when their wives cease bearing children, these wives are to be taken care of by the state and the men are to marry young women, while wives who have no children are to become wards of the state and their husbands to marry others. By this means it is expected to increase the German population from five to seven times within half a century, while other nationalities fall behind under present social conditions. 

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. 

Motto Charity Never Faileth 

Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President 

Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor 

Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor 

Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary 

Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary 

Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer 

Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon 

Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas 

Miss Sarah McLelland 

Dr. Romania B. Penrose 

Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox 

Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon 

Mrs. Emily S. Richards 

Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley 

Mrs. Janette A. Hyde 

Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth 

Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune 

Miss Sarah Eddington 

Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie 

Miss Edna May Davis 

Miss Lillian Cameron 

Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry 

Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director 

Miss Edna Coray, Organist 

 

Editor Susa Young Gates 

Business Manager Janette A. Hyde 

Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman 

Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 

Vol. V. July, 1918. No. 

When the Lord Jesus Christ, just prior to His departure for Gethsemane, offered up prayer for his twelve apostles he used these significant words: "I pray for them; I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine. * * * And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one as we are. * * * I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world, but that thou shouldst keep them from the evil. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth. As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth. Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word." (John 18:9,11,20.) The Master clearly recognized the fact that those who bear His name are not as the world. They do not speak nor act as the world do, and in this difference lies largely the antagonism of the world to the former and Latter-day Saints. This is a fundamental principle of the gospel, and our sisters who lead out in the various communities as officers of this Society should understand the operation of this principle. 

EDITORIAL. Questions have been raised as to our Relief Society sisters joining with Red Cross activities in What Shall the various units where tea and coffee may be We Do? served and where raffling is indulged in. The universal answer to such questions is the statement that such things are forbidden by the Lord through His servants and, therefore, this Society cannot enter into them in any degree. We quote from President Joseph F. Smith's editorial in the Improvement Era, Vol. 6, as follows: "Raffling is a game of chance, and hence leads to gambling; for that reason, if for no other, it should not be encouraged among the young men of the Church. President Young declared raffling to be a modified name of gambling; said that as Latter-day Saints we cannot afford to sacrifice moral principles to financial gain, and advised the sisters through the Woman's Exponent not to raffle. President Lorenzo Snow endorsed and approved of these sentiments; President Joseph F. Smith has also expressed his unqualified disapproval of raffling; the General Sunday School Board have declared against it; and finally the state law makes it unlawful to raffle with dice; and if it is unlawful with dice, in principle, is it not just as illegal with any other device? With all these objections, should it not be clear to anyone that raffling horses, quilts, bicycles and other property is not sanctioned by the moral law nor approved by the general Church authorities." The principles of the gospel are always founded The Wise upon law, but our individual application of the Course. law is quite another thing; some of our people think it is all right to be a little lax in keeping holy the Sabbath day or in the observance of the Word of Wisdom, or in this question of raffling, for one reason or another; and if they can satisfy their own consciences in such matters, that is entirely between them and their God. We have no right whatever to interfere with an individual's belief, or his application of principle. All that the general authorities of this Society may do is to state facts, explain or expound the laws of the gospel as applied to the conduct of our Relief Society affairs, and the results are entirely with those who receive these instructions. It is true that we are now very much mixed up in our relation with the outside world, in all this war work, and individuals may find it necessary from time to time to permit themselves to act upon more license than they would do if they were associated strictly with our own people. Personally, I cannot agree with such license. It would seem the most wonderful opportunity in the world to proclaim our principles through word and action and thus convince, if not convert, our non-believing associates to the 422 . value and divine importance of the principles revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith to the modern world. We would not want our boys to give comfort or countenance to the enemy over in the trenches, nor would we have them allow false motives of sympathy and personal humanity to prevent them from firing their guns straight at the enemy, leaving the results with the God of battle. Principle is one thing, yet our individual loyalty and integrity is always measured by our characters and our environments. So far as this Society is concerned, we shall abide by the rules and laws of the Church. In no other way can we succeed as individuals, or as a Society. We are pleased to add the following letter from Washington, D. C., on this subject: "RED CROSS OFFICIALS DISAPPROVE OF RAFFLES. "April 30, 1918. "Mr. John W. Morey, Manager Mountain Division. "National headquarters have been asked to define definitely the attitude of the Red Cross toward raising funds by means of lotteries, raffles, and any other form of appeal which involves in any way the question of gambling. "We wish to state that national headquarters definitely opposes any games, lotteries, raffles, or any other form of appeal which possesses gambling features. This form of gambling is contrary to the laws of many of the states. "We believe that the appeal of the Red Cross is so great, and that the people of the country are so anxious to have it fulfil its obligations as interpreter of the nation's sentiments that it is unnecessary for any community to have to resort to such methods to raise funds. "We have asked for a ruling on this subject by several of the division managers and give it to you for your information and for use wherever it may be necessary. "G. E. Scott, "Assistant General Manager." "LOVE AND THE LIGHT." In Apostle Orson F.

Whitney's recent poem, once more Utah's poet laureate presents to his countless admirers a charming poetic idyl which he calls "Love and the Light." Rich in musical concept, colorful in phrase, measured and stately in form, the lovely story unfolds before the enthralled imagination, yet with all its charms and beauties nothing is so glorious about it as the undercurrent of spiritual truth and inspired testimony which informs every page. The book is beautifully presented through the Deseret News, publishers, and is illustrated with suggestive pen. We commend this for both study and pleasure to all our readers.

Dr. James L. Hughes, long-time philosopher and educator of Toronto, Canada, famous in his own country as author and publicist, has now devoted the remainder of his busy life to the exercise of his delightful and touching poetic gifts. Two books, "Songs of Gladness and Growth," and "Stories and Musings," will reach the day-spring of every sensitive heart. Scarce an emotion or an aspiration which is not here voiced, while the exquisite poetic dedication to his handsome soldier son, Chester Hughes, wrings tears from the coldest eyes. "His life-story began in Toronto, Canada, March 31, 1888, and ended in Belgium, November 15, 1915," so says the monograph, while the closing illustration marks the grave of the youthful hero, "Somewhere in France." Dr. Hughes has a host of admirers in Utah and none of his friends is more touched over his own consecrated attitude to life and life's present terrific struggle than is the Editor of this little Magazine, Susa Young Gates.

Mrs. Rebecca C. Allen of Hyrum, Utah, has some very good dried apples for sale at $.15 a pound. Orders should be sent directly to Mrs. Allen. Mrs. K. Deen Reynolds, Tropic, Utah, is anxious to know where she can sell crocheted yokes, colors, etc. For information, write Mrs. Reynolds. Mrs. A. C. Hansen, Boulder, Utah, has 700 lbs. of alfalfa seed at $.15 a pound; mailing expense extra.

Music Through the New EDISON Diamond-disc PHONOGRAPH

Call or write for FREE beautifully illustrated EDISON Catalogs, with prices, and full details of our easy payment plan. No obligation to you.

Daynes-Beebe Music Co
61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake

Be Patriotic

Save wheat, sugar and fats. Good, pure bread can be made of wheat flour and other cereals by using Fleischmann's Yeast

Established 1860 Incorporated 1908

Undertakers and Embalmers
Successors to Joseph E. Taylor
The Pioneer Undertaker of the West
Fifty-three years in one location
251-257 East First South Street
Efficient Service, Modern Methods
Complete Equipment

Shipping Orders a Specialty. Boarding House, Hotel, Ranch and Family Trade especially solicited. Write for our price list. We help pay freight.

Ogden, Utah

The Utah State National Bank features quick and efficient Service. One feature is the Unit System which greatly simplifies transactions.

Joseph F. Smith, President
Heber J. Grant, Vice-President
Rodney T. Badger, Vice-Pres.
Henry T. McEwan, Cashier
George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier

Z. C. M. I. Western Scout Shoes

The Ideal out-door SHOE for Men Youths and Boys. Cheap, but serviceable. Ask for Z.C.M.I. "Everwear" or "The Leader"

The Thomas Overalls
They don't rip

When WE make your Portraits, YOU get the correct style, excellence and satisfaction

The Thomas Studio
Phone Was. 3491
44 Main St.

Electric Washing Machines and Appliances of All Kinds

ELECTRIC FANS, All Sizes, All Prices, for Summer Comfort. We manufacture fixtures, do construction work and carry a complete line of everything for Electricity. Send for our catalog.

Let Eardly Bros. Do It.

The QUALTROUGH-ALLCOTT UNDERTAKERS CO.
Residence Parlors

A New Book on Gospel Doctrine
Written for Young People by
Price, post paid 75c
Send Orders to E. F. PARRY, JR.