[Vol21 | July 1934 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Young Keddington]

By Holly Baxter Keddington RELIGIOUS training for children must have its foundation in the home. A friend wrote that at Easter time she had been asked to tell the story of Easter to the children of the small community, and after telling the story she asked questions only to discover that many of the children had never heard of Jesus or of God. True this was not a L. D. S. Community, but I just wondered how many of us expect outside influences and training to provide our children with their religious background. How can a mother answer the many questions of wonder about this world we live in, that are almost daily asked by the children of all ages, without mention of the works of God? Whether we are in the park, riding in a car, hiking to some appointed goal, questions of every kind are asked. And I do hope they are answered in a satisfactory manner. A Sunday School board member has estimated that even though your child is regular in his attendance to both Sunday School and Primary that he is receiving no more than seventy-five hours of religious training per year. He wonders at that rate how many years it would take to teach the three "R's". "THE experience of a child guest in the home is one of which every child and every home should avail itself. The home must not be critical of the visitor and the child will find many new and interesting ideas of conduct and general living that he will take home with him. Your children will have to be trained so that they will be good hosts as well as good visitors. In an article 'not so long ago these are some of the qualifications of a good visitor—He will not be inquisitive—under or too suggestive—'picky" with food— seclusive or temperamental, but should be helpful where possible— one of the group—anxious to please —above all make the adjustments of food, sleep and play to that of the host family. Few children will be able to live up 'to these requirements but many will be little trouble on such a visit. Visits to grandmothers, aunts, uncles and cousins are grand week-end or over night visits and the child usually appreciates home more if he is allowed to view the world a bit. * * * * Answers to questions: S. J—Yes. My linoleum is ready for varnish again and by the time you read this it will have it. Thin the varnish down for the places under the table, range, etc., where it is not worn, then you will not notice the piecing. R. Y.—Your question is answered to some extent in the June Journal. If you want more could you write again? The cultivation of the reading habit is well worked out in "Child Welfare," October, 1932, pp. 86-87. Possibly your library has it. Your letters were very kind I am sure.