[Vol21 | July 1934 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]

Need be out," will ever be to me a source of comfort and inspiration. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JULY—The truest patriotism lies not in colorful gestures but a consciousness of one's duty to his country by obeying and sustaining the law. MRS. HENRY W. BAKER, the only woman member of the Battle Monuments committee left last month for France with Gen.
Pershing for the dedication of the monuments, now completed.
These monuments on the different battle fields of France and Belgium tell the heroic story in marble and are most ' significant. Mrs.
Baker is a past president of the Service Star Legion and will represent that society at the International Council of Women in Paris this July. MRS. VICTOR ASTOR was spokesman before a congressional committee in behalf of changes in the immigration laws, especially as regards deportation. She says, "It is just plain common sense if you want to be human." HELEN JACOBS, U. S.
Tennis champion, failed in her bid for the French hard court championship to Peggy Scriven of England. JEAN BATTEN made a new aviation record for women in her flight from England to Australia. MRS. GIFFORD PINCHOT of Philadelphia, and Frieda S.
Miller of New York are both working for minimum wage laws for women and to wipe out sweat shops. While Eleanor S. Herrick, regional chairman of the Labor Board of New York has assisted in settling over 400 serious labor disputes. She was a factory worker herself and brings both training and experience to her office. MRS. LEE GREEN RICHARDS of Utah was elected national vice president of the Daughters of the Revolution at the convention held in Maryland. MISS DOROTHY DIXON of Utah University will be a speaker at the American Library Association convention in Montreal. MARGHERITA SARFATTI of Rome, who spent a day in Salt Lake City, recently, is the author of "Dux," the official biography of Mussolini. MISS MARIE FOX of Salt Lake has won a scholarship at Mills College entitling her to a year tuition at the conservatory of music in Munich, Germany. AT Queen Mary's court held at Buckingham Palace thirteen American women, beautifully gowned and bejeweled, were presented. ASTRID of Belgium is the newest queen in Europe, Ioanna of Bulgaria the youngest, and Marie of Jugoslavia is said to be the most beautiful.
Among the seven queens only one, Wilhelmina of Holland, reigns in her own right. MINNIE M. BRESHEAR writes of the formative years of Mark Twain in such a telling way that one feels his own words were true when he said, "All that goes to make the me in me was in a Missourian village. SIGNE TOKSVIG'S biography of Hans Christian Andersen is spoken of by the reviewers as "a story of gentle human living."