Notes to the Field George Washington Bt-Centennial Programs WE congratulate the stakes and wards for their extensive tree planting. So far as the visits of the General Board have extended this year, it is found that all stakes and most wards have planted trees, to be dedicated on the bi-centennial of the birth of George Washington, Feb. 22, 1932. More trees will be planted this fall. It is hoped that all wards and stakes will have at least one program for this memorial. "These points should be emphasized with respect to the Celebration of the Two Hundredth Anniversary of the Birth of George Washington next year: "1. It is sponsored by the United States Government: Congress created the George Washington Bicentennial Commission and the President of the United States is its chairman. "2. It will not be a world's fair or exposition, and it will not be held in any one place. "3. It will be a nation-wide, even a world-wide series of celebrations in which every state, city and town —every organization and institution, every home and individual—in this country, together with Americans and others in many foreign countries, will participate. Every community is expected to plan and carry out its own program of events, in cooperation with the United States Commission and the State Commissions. "4. It will last from Washington's Birthday, February 22, 1932, to Thanksgiving Day, November 24, the Field 1932, with special local and national celebrations everywhere on all holidays, anniversaries, or~other days which can be connected with the life of George Washington. "5, While the ceremonies on February 22 should be especially elaborate and impressive, as marking the actual Two Hundredth Anniversary of George Washington's Birth, arrangements also should be made for public gatherings, pageants, plays, processions, musical festivals, tableaux and other events at various times during the entire period of more than nine months. Every program should relate to the great life and work of the First President and - Founder of the Republic. On Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and other national and local holidays or anniversaries there should be special programs, but the celebration should not be confined to these days. "6. It 'will take time to prepare the local programs and arrange for the local celebrations. The United States 'Commission 'urges mayors and other officials of every city and town in the country to appoint George. Washington Bi-centennial Commissions or Committees, in order to prepare for the events of the Bicentennial Year. "7, All organizations and institutions of whatever character—civic, business, labor, educational, religious, fraternal, literary, social and others—are urged to plan for a 'George Washington Year' in 1932. "8. The United States George Washington Bicentennial Commission, Washington Building, Washington, D. C., will send literature and suggestions for local programs 580 to any committee, organization or group that will write for them." This literature includes suggestive patriotic programs, pageants, plays, appropriate music and songs, specially prepared sermons for sacred services, cuts for newspapers, extensive biography,; and _ separate papers on various phases and incidents in the life of George Washington. Song Book For years our organization has very much enjoyed the Relief Society Song Book. Some months ago the last copy was sold. Through the advice of the Church Music Committee it was decided not to reprint it, as they desired that the adult members of the Church would, as far as possible, use one song book, The Latter-day Saint Psalmody. It should be understood, however, that those who still have the Relief Society Song Book should use it and are in no way obligated to get new books. A List of Valuable Books Mrs. Claire S. Boyer, a teacher in Liberty Stake, has kindly sent in the following list of books which she feels sure the social service leaders in the Relief Society would enjoy and could use profitably in their work. The list is published, not with the expectation that our teachers generally will purchase these books, because the text and lessons in the Magazine furnish more material than the time allotted for this work allows to be presented, but many are anxious to further enrich their minds and ask what other books they can read along this line. Personality, Spillman; Personality, Carman; Psychology of Personality, Valentine; Directing Mental Energy, Aveling; Conquest of Fear, King; DevelopRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing Personality in Boys, Borman; Personality and Health, Sadler; About Ourselves, Overstreet; Influencing Human Behavior, Overstreet; Beyond Behaviorism, Courtney; Initiative Psychic Energy, Hiltan; The Doctor Looks at Love and Life, Collins; How to Live, Bennet; A Laugh a Day Keeps the Doctor Away, Cobb; Brain and Personality, Thompson; The Education of Children, Adler; Keeping Mentally Fit, Jastrow; Piloting Your Life, Jastrow; Health Through Will Power, Walsh; The Human Mind, Meninger; Training for Power and Leadership, Kieiser; Think, Hunter; Pep, Hunter; He 'Can Who Thinks He Can, Marden; Power of Will, Haddock; The Thinking Machine, Herrick; Psychology, Martin; The Meaning of a Liberal Education, Martin; The Dance of Life, Ellis; The Good Life, Russel; Happiness, Phelps; Intelligent Living, Riggs; Mind and Personality, Brown; The Psychologist Keeps House, Gordon; Personality, Gordon; The New Generation, Calverton; Every Man's Genius, Austin; Progress of. Culture, 'Woel;. The Psychology of Loyalty, Royce; Creative Understanding, Keyserling; New Girls for Old, Blanchard; Modern Conversation, Hall; Kingship of Self Control, Jordan; Handsful of Living, Norris; The Religion of Beauty, Bell; The Joyful Heart, Chauffler; The Psychology of Thinking, 'Miller; The Meaning of Culture, Powys; Self Cultivation in English, Palmer; The Creative Spirit, Brown; Art of Thinking, Dimnet; Exploring Your Mind, Wiggam; Memory, Phelps; Laughter and Health, Walsh; Preface to Morals, Lippman; How to Use Your Mind, Kitson; Charm, Wilson; Human Nature, Schoen. Music The glorious days of autumn are here; vacation time is ended. Relief Society workers everywhere are approaching their labors with renewed courage and appreciation. Choristers and Organists have you determined in your own minds just what you desire to do in a musical way this year in your organization? Have you formulated a plan which will help you to improve the music in your community? Now is a good time to put a good plan into action. Would it be too difficult to aim at NOTES TO THE FIELD a new song learned each month, with a heartier singing of the old songs? Encourage those who sing alto to sing alto along with the sopranos, so that two part singing may be developed. Now is a splendid time to begin trio work. This could be done best 581 by special rehearsals by selected singers, Let your slogan be "More and Better Singing in the Relief Society Organizations." We hope every organization will learn at least six new songs during the year. Notes from the Field Moapa Stake: Te above lovely picture is that of the Panaca Ward Relief Society, and is the portrayal of the pageant "Women of the Bible." This very interesting event was staged in the Panaca Auditorium in June, 1931. The names of the sisters in the picture are: Top row, left to right, Ruby Lee, Amy D. Mathews, Winifred Cutler, Maribah Edwards, Katherine Heaps and Josephine Wadsworth; lower row, left to right, Belva Edwards, Afton Mathews, Dollie Wadsworth, 'Ruth Lee and her baby, Ruby, Annie H. Mathews, Emma Hansen, Addie Blad and Romola Lee. The event, so artistically staged, was a very great success from every point of view. The interpretation of the Biblical women was very splendidly done, and efforts of this type prove beyond doubt the versatility and the artistic trend which the 'Relief Society does so much to cultivate among the women of the organization. 582 Idaho Falls Stake: I. May the Idaho Falls stake Re- ' lief Society gave a most interesting celebration in which the history of the Relief Society work in that stake was presented in pageant and drama form. This began with the first stake board organization in 1895, and depicted the work of the first stake board, with special emphasis on the efforts among the sick, ' when visits over a sparsely settled country were made, horses and buggies being the medium of communication. The characters were represented by women dressed in the costumes worn during the period. Two of the original members took their own parts, Sister Elvira C. Steele, who had been a counselor, and Sister Alice Boomer, the treasurer of the Relief Society. The different administrations from the beginning to the present were represented, and the progress of the work, with all the features that have developed, and the special activities, were shown. About fifty women and many children took part in this program, enhanced by music and songs, which did much to add to the success of the entertainment. The scene of this very interesting event was the Stake Tabernacle, and was presented to a group of more than 700 people. It was particularly interesting as the pageant with the drama accompanying was written by local women, and directed by members of the stake board. Curlew Stake: @e tainty the Relief Society of this stake is to be congratulated on the very fine work done in the field of child health and protection. Word comes to the office of a clinic, just completed in this forward-looking stake where 164 children were examined by the docRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tor, and 155 were inoculated for diphtheria. It is quite in line with the recommendations of the General Board of Relief Society, that the health of the children be safeguarded and the splendid preventive measures now available be used to ensure the health of the little ones before entering school for the coming year. The advancement of any people is measured by the care given to the children, and we certainly extend our sincere congratulations to our stakes in many parts who are acting in accordance with this wise vision of future benefits. Box Elder Stake: 'Box Elder Stake Presidencies, 1911-1931 Wy Ne ee afternoon, June 17, 1931, at the 5th Ward Chapel, past President Lula B. Call and her retiring board members were delightfully entertained by the Relief Society Stake Board and Executive Officers of the fourteen wards of the Box Elder stake. Floor baskets and summer bouquets were used to make the hall attractive, while the banquet table formed as a large U, was made beautiful with a color scheme of blue and gold—the official Relief Society colors. These colors were carried out in candles and bowls of DelPhinium, Bachelor Buttons, and lovely Yellow Coreopsis. President Vera D. Sederholm presided. Community singing was led by Stake (Chorister, Romina Jenson. Mrs. Abbie R. Madson, of the stake board, was toastmistress. Toasts were given to the past presidents by Mrs. Louie B. Call, president of the 3rd Ward Relief Society, and past presidents Sarah P. Stohl, Minnie H. Jenson and Lula B. Call re- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 583 BOX ELDER STAKE PRESIDENCIES, 1911-1931 sponded. A toast to the retiring Lillian D. Lillywhite. Musical board members was given by Leah Reeder of the stake board, followed by responses from Mae Tyson and Annie H. Littlewood. Counselor May M. Horsley presented an appropriate gift to the six guests of honor, who were: Lula B. Call, Annie H. Littlewood, Mae Tyson, Ada L. Johnson, May N. Balls and numbers 'were rendered during the serving, consisting of steel guitar. Solos, by Carrie L. Baird, president of the Ist Ward Relief Society; and a vocal number by Mrs. Connie M. Peters. An unusual item of interest was the presence of four complete groups of successive stake executive officers. 584 Franklin Stake (Franklin Ward): ENTERTAINERS AT "WORLD TOUR" N the afternoon of August 11, 1931, the Franklin Ward Relief Society carried out a very entertaining and highly educational program. Ninety members, and the entire Bishopric, were taken to four different homes, each of which represented a country of the world. At Mrs. G. L. Wright's, in a cleverly designed tea-garden, Japan was featured. Mrs. Kanow and her three daughters in beautiful native RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE costumes, entertained in song and dance; the mother sang in native tongue, accompanied by Japanese koto. Mrs. A. H. Parkin, and daughters Melba and Marjorie, entertained in true Holland fashion. At Mrs. Isabel Scarborough's Lucile Staley and Hazel Olverson in a dialogue as "Pat and Bridget," and the 'Blarney Stone," furnished ripples of laughter at the same time creating a keen sympathy for the dear Irish folk. On the wide lawn at Bishop B. R. Parkinson's, with flowers in every nook and corner, Hawaii was successfully represented. Luana and Lera Packer, with steel guitars and real native dress, entertained charmingly with appropriate songs, while five small girls danced around as daughters of the "Sunny Isles." At each of these homes, refreshments typical of the country represented, were served by the hostess, assisted by some of the visiting teachers of her district. Japanese rice sandwiches and puffed rice, root beer, potato salad, and Hawaiian fruit cocktail, constituted the main part of the menu. The cooperative spirit manifested was very commendable. Cars were provided for all. This speaks well for the Bishopric and the Relief Society in this busy farming community. The stake board of Relief Society was represented by two members. The Cup By Beatrice Knowlton Ekman I have known palmy days of enchantment and bliss, I have thrilled with life's zest and its joys, I have known love's enrapturing ravishing kiss; And it all has been mixed with alloys. I have known sorrow and I have known pain, I have known death again and again. Brimming the cup and I drank to the lees— It has brought me to God—on my knees—on my knees.
