The Old Teapot By I. B. McKenzie TL was one of those hot, sultry days that come just at the time when pickling onions, tomatoes, and cling-stone peaches demand attention, if the loved ones are to have the relishes they enjoy through the long winter months. Martha Wells had just slipped from the hot kitchen to the porch for a breath of cool air, when a friendly voice accosted her. "Aren't you ready, Sister Wells? The president wants all visiting teachers and officers to come early, to receive their special instructions before the meeting begins." "No, I can't go today, so don't wait for me. Have me excused, please." "T'm awfully sorry you can't come along with me. I always look forward to our first meeting, for it is so jolly to exchange greetings with friends I haven't seen all summer. Goodbye, I'll try to drop in and tell you about the meeting as I go home." Looking up the street Martha saw her neighbors, in groups of two or three, hurrying to the meeting house. She entered the house and closed the door, giving the impression that she had gone away, and, throwing herself into a chair, she covered her face with her apron, and had the good cry she needed to relieve her over-wrought nerves. She did not hear the door open, and she was startled when her young daughter, Margaret, put her arms around her. "Why, Mother darling, what is the matter? Have you had bad news?" "No, dear," and Martha hurriedly wiped her eyes. "I just felt a little blue. All the neighbors have gone to Relief Society, and IJ felt a little lonely." "Why didn't you go? You always love this first meeting, and I'm - sure those pickles could have stood for an hour or two." All the pent up emotion of weeks was in Martha's voice as she said, "Well, I just don't intend to go any more. I can't keep up with the lessons without the magazine, and it's just a dollar here and a dollar there, and I simply can't afford to subscribe. Will is going to need so much at the U. Next year and Beth can't go to high school in the madeovers she wore at grade school. With your father only working half time, and one of the twins forever needing new shoes, I don't feel justified in spending a dollar on myself." With the arms of her first-born around her she poured out her grievances and found as most of us do, that when they were out where she could face them squarely, they dwindled to insignificance. She smiled up at Margaret and said: "How foolish I have been! I am really the most fortunate of women, with such a kind husband and a wonderful family. Iam so proud of Will's splendid record at the U. And Beth has been so patient about her clothes. When I see Sister Evans' little Paul sitting in a wheelchair day after day, I should be glad that our twins are active enough to wear out their shoes. Now, I feel quite myself again. I believe I'll clean the pantry shelves while you are here to hand me the dishes. It THE OLD TEAPOT is so hard for me to climb up and down. Mother and daughter worked and chatted happily together. As they were putting the dishes back, Margaret said, "Mother, you have so many useless things on this shelf. Now, here is grandmother's old teapot, it is cracked and you can never use it. Let's throw it out." Martha held it tenderly and a flood of memories swept over her. In her mother's day while there were no modern conveniences to make housework lighter, yet the housewives had had time to spend an afternoon with their friends, their busy fingers keeping pace with as busy tongues, as they knitted or mended. She could see her mother. Pouring tea for her friends. Then later when her conversion to the Word of Wisdom made her give up the habit of tea drinking she had found a new use for the old teapot. The egg money and other bits of extra change had been dropped into it, and many a time her mother had gone to the old teapot when she wanted some little luxury, her sweet kindly face beaming with pleasure because she could share her little treasure with a dear one. A sudden resolution came into Martha's heart. - "No, no," she said, "I have a use for that teapot. It is too dear to me to be cast aside," and she put it back on the shelf. 555 A YEAR rolled swiftly by, and once again it was time for the opening meeting of the Relief Society. Just as Martha put on her hat, Margaret came down the street on her way to the store. She came in the kitchen door, just as she had done a year ago. "What about your Mother?" she asked. For answer, Martha took down the old china teapot and poured its contents on the table, a tiny pile of © dimes—fifty-two of them. "Where on earth did you get magazine, them?" asked Margaret. "Last year, when we came upon this old teapot the thought came to -me that I could use it as your grandmother did, as a thrift-pot instead of a teapot. A dime each week I never missed, and yet in the year it has grown to be five dollars and twenty cents. Now, I have. Three dollars for the block teachers—that is twenty-five cents a month; then a dollar for the magazine, fifty cents for my dues, and seventy cents to spend on material for my donation to the ward bazaar. So you see, with no hardship to anyone, I have been able to save for the coming year's Relief Society duties." Margaret laughed and held her close. "No one else would have thought of such a scheme, but it's a dandy one. I'm going straight home and start a thtrif pot. Of my own. Three cheers for granny's old cracked teapot."
