VoL. XVIII OCTOBER, 1931 No. 10 EDITORIAL The Harvest "By what things a man sinneth by these he is punished." 𣶷olomon. "Be sure your sins will find you out." S we look at the fields of A ripening grain, at the vineyards with their abundant yield, at the vines with their luscious melons, at the trees laden with fruit, we rejoice in the bounteous harvest. As we behold the flowers with their varied hues, the brush and trees turning gold and brown and red, we revel in the beauty we behold in mountain and vale, on river bank and craggy steep. As we read of "Ye passing of the aged who have labored long and faithfully and who have departed leaving memories of their many good deeds and worthy accomplishments, and who leave a numerous posterity of worthy descendants, we rejoice that the harvest of their lives has been so bounteous. B UT not always is the account so satisfying to contemplate. Many are forfeiting their lives in their mad pursuit of excitement and pleasure. They are paying a terrible price for the gratification of their appetites, lusts, and passions. Each day as we read the papers we are appalled at the loss of life, and still more disturbed when investigation dis- 586 closes what preceded the tragedies 珦moking, drinking, gambling, loss of modesty, failure to hold sacred sex relationships and standards have all too often paved the way for the catastrophe. Auto accidents add a high toll to the mortality lists, and a big percentage of these are caused through wild and careless driving. All too often the innocent are injured or killed and the reckless ones escape. Boating and swimming add to the casualties because proper precautions were not taken. Life is a sacred, precious gift. It should be guarded so that the years of the earth span may not be shortened but profitably spent. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE W HILE mothers cannot compel their children to observe the laws of life, while they cannot make them walk the paths of rectitude and safety, yet they can and are obligated to teach them the beauty and safety of right living and to point out the evils that follow wrong doing. Every child in his own home should have impressed upon him the inevitability of law. He should learn that "he that sows to the flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption," while "he that sows to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting." He should be taught that goodness and righteousness are beautiful, that sin is ugly and that the lasting satisfactions of life result from right living. Back to Our Routine UR vacations are over. Weare all back to the routine of our lives. The auxiliaries are again offering wonderful opportunities. We are going to get out of the work much or little in proportion to what we put into it. We hope our Relief Society women will determine first to study more systematically, thoroughly and continuously this winter than ever before; and secondly, that they will carry out their good resolutions. They are busy women and will have to systematize their work in order to get the time from household routine for mental refreshment. It will help them to reach this desired end if many superfluities are banished, if time is allotted for much desired study, and the schedule adhered to. A Concrete Suggestion E call 'our readers' attention to a delightful little story, "The Old Teapot," on page 554 of this issue. Sister McKenzie, the Magazine agent in Wasatch Ward in Salt Lake City, writes that she has had difficulty in securing many subscriptions because the sisters say _they haven't the money. Her experiences suggested the story which, she writes, is her first, and she is now sixty-five years of age! We think she has been hiding her talent under a bushel. The suggestions offered will be a boon to many who are hard pressed. All too many college boys. And girls are turned forth from the schools without having been trained to think. They may know a language or two, some history, etc., but they haven't been led to think things through. Sister McKenzie has demonstrated that she can think a problem through and find a feasible solution. We hope more of our readers will send in concrete suggestions for helping out in this time of depression and financial need.
