			HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON FRIDAY and Saturday evenings, Oct. 6
and 7th, select entertainments were given in
the 10th Ward School-house, consisting of
songs, recitations, dialogues, instrumental per-

[Column 2]
formances etc. The most striking and pleas
ing feature of the entertainment was the reci-
tation of "Beautiful Snow," by Miss Mattie
Paul. In character of expression, in voice a[-]d
gesture, her rendering of this pathetic poem
was equal to that of a cultivated artiste.
	OGDEN RELIEF SOCIETY.—On Saturday eve-
ning, Sept. 20, an entertainment was given for
the benefit of this society in the Ogden Thea-
tre. Misses Carrie Cogswell, Susie Marden and
Edith Clawson, and Messrs. Forster and Clarke
of this city, Mr. Alfred Thorne, and members
of the Ogden Dramatic Company, produced
the play of "Camille," which was followed by
an "Olio," and concluded with the "Tower
Scene" in the play of "King John," in which
Miss Clawson gave her clever rendition of
"Prince Arthur." There was a "packed"
house, and the general opinion given was that
it was an excellent dramatic entertainment.
	President F. D. Richards thanked the per-
formers, musi[-]ians, etc., all of whom had gen-
erously given their service gratuitously, and
the audience, on behalf of the Relief Society.
	Credit is due Sisters Richards and S. Herrick,
the instigators and managers of the entertain-
ment, from the proceeds of which the Relief
Society will be benefitted.—Ex.
	DESERET SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret
Silk Associotion held a special meeting at Fire-
men's Hall, on Saturday afternoon, Oct. 7th,
Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young reported that she expected a reel
would be here in a few days. She had received
a large quantity of cocoons. This organiza-
tion was not for any personal benefit, but for
the benefit of the community of Utah. We
ought to be looking after our trees and cut-
tings, as it was very near time to plant them
out.
	Mr. Robbins said it was best to plant them
in the fall. He had had fifty years' experience
and had always found it best.
	Mrs. Barney reported that, while in the
north, she had collected $105. She could not
raise the worms, but felt a desire to see the
movement a success.
	There being quite a number present from the
various settlements, the remainder of the time
was taken up in asking questions and answer-
the same.
	The following donations were received:
Cynthia Clyde, $1; Mary S. Clark, $1; Martha
Thomas. 50c.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Wednesday
in November, at the same place.
					R. SIMPSON, Secretary.

	THE PEOPLE'S Territorial Convention for the
nomination of a Delegate to Congress, was
held in the Co[-]rt House in Salt Lake City,
Saturday, Oct. 7th, at half-past twelve, p. m.
David O. Calder, acting chairman, called the
convention to order; Judge Elias Smith, on
motion of Mr. Calder was chosen temporary
chairman. John T. Caine, on motion of Col. J.
R. Winder was elected temporary Secretary.
The business was all arranged and carried for-
ward in a quiet and methodical manner, and
no confusion whatever occurred. The com-
mittee, which had been appointed in the usual
form, reported the following officers f[--] a per-
manent organization. President D. H. Wells;
Vice Presidents, according to their districts,
A. O. Smoot and A. Hatch; E. Snow and J. N.
Smith; J. F. Smith and Brigham Young. Jr,
Secretaries, John T. Caine, Moses Thatcher,
and R. S. Horne; Chaplain, F. D. Richards;
Sergeant at Arms, Joel Grover. This report
was unanimously carried. Hon. W. H. Hoop-
er Chairman of the committee on resolutions,


reported the following subjects in form. State-
hood, Education, Irrigation, Silver Currency,
Stumpage, General. The convention sustained
the present people's territorial central com-
mittee. Hon. George Q. Cannon was formally
nominated and several speeches made on the
subject. The nomination was received with
universal applause.
	SUNDAY SCHOOL MOVEMENT.—A general
meeting of the Sunday school superintendents
and teachers of the Territory was held at the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Friday
evening Oct. 6th. Of the Twelve Apostles
there were present Elders John Taylor, Wil-
ford Woodruff, F. D. Richards, and George Q.
Cannon. There were representatives from
nearly all the counties and the time was occu-
pied mostly by hearing from the superintend-
ents; the reports of the progress of the move-
ment being very encouraging, and indicated
that the Bishops and other leading men were
taking a more lively interest in it than hereto-
fore.
	THE SUNDAY School is one of the greatest
educators of the young that has ever been
instituted; and upon the youth of any na-
tion, or people depends the future strength
and power for good or evil. It is the influ-
ence of Sunday Schools in a very great de-
gree that gives sublimity of tone to the
aspirations and ambitions of the young.
The subject is one which involves the highest
and holiest interests of a community. Here
they are, or should be taught to reverence
every thing that is sacred and pure, to imitate
the blessed Savior in humility and meek-
ness which were the striking characteristics of
His life and death.
	Let every mother be awakened to renewed
interest in this direction, and inspire, if possi-
ble, all within her circle with the same zeal
and earnestness. To the children of the poor,
and to the orphan the Sunday School is a bless-
ing which it is impossible to estimate. God
bless the Sunday School; it is one of the most
potent workers of the redemption of Israel.
	DR. ELLEN B. Ferguson to whom reference
has been made in this paper, has returned from
St. George and taken up her residence in Pro-
vo, where she will continue the practice of
medicine. Mrs. Ferguson is a regularly grad-
uated physician, has studied her profession
in England and America, and spent four years
of her life in the hospitals of London and
Paris; has had twelve years experience in an
extensive practice in the United States. We
would recommend her to the sisters in
Provo and vicinity who need the services of a
skillful and experienced physician. She is al-
so a fine musician and vocalist and will give
lessons in vocal and instrumental music at her
residence. Office and residence in A. F. Mac-
donald's house, Provo, Utah Co. Mrs. Dr.
Ferguson has traveled and lectured extensively
in different countries; she is a lady of most
pleasing and attractive manners, her voice is
clear and full of melody, and in notices we
have seen from the Eastern press, she has been
spoken of as a woman possessing "rare intel-
lectual ability and literary culture; a thorough
knowledge of all that belongs to the human
system, and the pathology of disease;" Mrs.
Dr. Ferguson is also spoken of as "one having
in a large degree those qualities of hert and
mind that must always be the crowning glory
of true and enlightened womanhood."
	Mrs. Ferguson's course of lectures on Gyne-
cology, delivered in the East, treat of the Con-
stitution, Idiosyncrasies and Diseases of Wo-
man, together with the Laws of the Social and
Physical relations of the Sexes.
	A Woman's Convention.—On Wednesday,
Oct. 4th, at 2 o'clock p. m., the officers and
members of the Relief Society from all the
different wards of the city and vicinity con-
vened in the Council Hose by previous ap-
pointment. President Miss E. R. Snow arose
and explained to the sisters that President B.
Young would not be present, as had been an-
ticipated, but would send his private Secretary
with a communication. She thenn nominated
Mrs. M. I. Horne to preside over the meeting,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells to act as Secretary,
which motions were unanimously carried.
	After the opening exercises, the assemblage
being too large to be accommodated in the
Council House, the meeting adjourned to the
Old Tabernacle. Elder George Reynolds, hav-
ing arrived with President Young's communi-
cation, arose and addressed the sisters on the
object of the meeting and read the following
letter from President Young:
			"Salt Lake City, Oct. 4th, 1876.
		"To the President, and Members of the Re-
lief Societies, in meeting assembled at the
Council House this afternoon.
	"Dear Sisters.—It would be very gratifying
to us if you could form an association to start
business in the capacity of disposing of home-
made articles, such as are manufactured among
ourselves, for the benefit of the Latter-day
Saints; also to make a selection from among
the sisters, members of this association, to take
charge and carry on this business on commis-
sion or by purchase, and to transact all the
business pertaining to this institution. If you
cannot be satisfied with the selection of sisters
from among yourselves to take charge, we will
render you assistance by furnishing a compe-
tent man for the transaction of the financial
matters of this establishment.
		"Your brother in the Gospel,
					"Brigham Young."
	After reading this letter, Brother Reynolds
made some very suggestive and appropriate re-
marks on home industries and the great desire
President Young felt to have the people push
forward in the development of home manufac-
ture.
	An organization was formed by electing the
following persons as officers of the association.
Miss E. R. Snow, President; Mrs. Priscilla
Stains, Vice President; Mrs. Elizabeth Davis,
Secretary; Mrs. Bathsheba Smith, Treasurer;
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Lydia Ann
Wells, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. Presendia
Kimball, Directors.
	Many excellent remarks were made by the
officers and such suggestions by Miss E. R.
Snow and others, as were adapted to the occa-
sion and organization of the association. After
all the business had been transacted which
seemed requisite at the time, the officers of the
board were requested to meet at the Old Con-
stitution building at 6 o'clock the same eve-
ning, and after singing and prayer the Conven-
tion adjourned sine die.
	The Relief Society Woman's Mercan-
			tile Association.
Has opened a store for the sale of home man-
ufactures in the building lately occupied by
the Woman's Centennial Territorial Fair,
known as the Old Constitution Building, op-
posite Z. C. M. I. store.
	We are now ready to receive home made use-
ful and ornamental articles of all kinds, which
we will sell on commission.
	Many of our citizens have felt the want of a
place devoted exclusively to Utah productions,
and now that we are, in accordance with the
wishes of President Young, uniting our hum-
ble efforts in this direction, we confidently
trust that we shall not only have the support
of all branches of the Relief Society through-
out the valleys of the mountains, but also of
our brethren and all others who feel an inter-
est in the future welfare and prosperity of
Utah.
	Commencing as we do without capital we
wish it distinctly understood that at present
we can only sell on commission.
				Eliza R. Snow, President.
				Priscilla M. Stains,
						Vice President.
				Elizabeth Davis,
						Secretary.


