POSITIVE PEOPLE.

	Of all the trials appointed by way of dis-
cipline in this sublunary sphere, is not the
greatest that of being forced into the per-
petual companionship of a positive person?
One who is so eminently and distressingly re-
spectable that he never did a wrong act in
his life, yet who constantly clashes upon all
your little harmonies and ideal dreams of
life, who shadows your rose-colored atmos-
phere, dispels your fancies at a glance, and
transforms every chord of your life to a dis-
cord. To be able to discover a flaw in the


character of such an individual would be
to your mind more refreshing than summer
rain to the parched earth. But no; from
his immaculate and appaling respectability
there is no appeal. Defenseless and silent
must you listen to his oracular opinions on
all conceivable subjects. His ground is
staked out at right angles, around which
your feet, long accustomed to wander at
their own sweet will, must walk circum-
spectly.
	There is no subject, from the Heaven
above to the Earth beneath, on which his
mind is not established firmly as the ever-
lasting hills. Who are you to presume on
questioning his opinions?
	Oh, for the grace of adaptability? Like
charity, it covers a multitude of sins.
Though your friend be more unlettered
than a Patagonian, more unconformable in
temperament than the Furies of old, yet
the grace of adaptability to times and moods
shall transfigure him in your sight, and his
coming shall ever bring you pleasure, and
his leaving pain!
	It is a great virtue in machinery that it
is easily adjustable to different kinds of
work and different operators. It is no less
a virtue in life. The gauges of living must
meet various and widely different demands.
Unforseen exigencies are continually aris-
ing. Opinions, duly labelled and stowed
away in one's mind, are not available for
the common needs of humanity. The best
of all things is a susceptibility to progress-
ion. People who pride themselves upon
being always the same, yesterday, to-day
and forever, are not only the most tiresome,
but the most detrimental to the true inter-
ests of society. Dr. Holmes remarks some-
where: "Don't be consistent but be simply
true."
	If your opinion has changed, you are,
doubtless, wiser than you were before. It
is not probable that wisdom has found a
termination in a life of any one individual,
and it becomes us to feel some regard for
the opinions of every one. A sweet and
gracious adaptability—a mental pliability,
so to speak—which, if not analyzed, is al-
ways realized. It is the slight and unassim-
ilated culture that repels. The genuine ar-
ticle attracts, and, unconsciously, perhaps,
to itself, draws all around it upward. It is
the "life of beauty" which invests all
around it with the "beauty of its thought."
It is the "little learning," the little culture,
the little thought, that is "a dangerous
thing," not the deep, sure foundations
widening every day. Positive people do not
change, therefore they do not progress.
At twenty years of age they may be shin-
ing lights in the community, but see if at
fifty they are not hard, unyielding and un-
comfortable.—Lady's Journal.


