HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Sure Cure for Inflamed Eyes.—Take half an
ounce of Golden Seal (you will find it at the drug
stores), pour one-half pint boiling water upon it
and let it cool. Bathe the eyes with a linen rag
dipped in this, each night on going to bed, and
you will soon effect a cure.
	How to Grow Fat.—Take soup every day,
also milk-coffee or chocolate well sweetened, 2
Let your food be chiefly farinaceous and vegeta-
ble; bread with butter or milk; milk-mush, pota-
toes, cabbage, turnips etc., prepared with butter,
sweet puddings. 3 Eat meat only once a day;
the fatter kinds are the most suitable. Take
neither acids nor alkalies, and avoid everything
that disagrees. Milk, butter and sugar are very
fattening, but everybody cannot take them with
impunity, and to grow fat it is essential that di-
gestion be almost perfect. Sleep all you want, and
take exercise in moderation.
	Action of Cod-Liver Oil in Disease.—Buch-
heim finds that cod-liver oil has an acid reaction,
and contains, in addition to the fatty glycerides,
free fatty acids—oleic, stearic, and pahnitic—the
quantities of which vary in different kinds of oil,
but amount in the clear variety to about five per
cent.; and no biliary matters are present in the
oil. Its value, according to Buchheim, depends on
the presence of the free fatty acids, since the ab-
sorbtion of fats is preceeded, to a certain extent
at least, by their disintegration into glycerine and 
fatty acids; and as the latter are introduced in 
cod-liver oil in their free condition, and thus easily
unite with the alkalies of the intestinal juices to
form soluble and easily absorbed soaps and com-
binations, a part of the digestive work is spared,
which is of importance for weak persons with de-
ficient power of producing the gastric juices.
	Barley Water Preferable to Milk.—A paper en-
titled "Observations on the Digestibility of Milk,"
read a short time since in London, by Dr. Carter,
has attracted considerable attention. In this pa-
per, Dr. Carter, as reported, discussed various
methods which had been generally used with a
view of promoting the digestibility of milk, point-
ing out that their efficiency was essentially due to
the dilution of the caseine, thus causing the pre-
cipitation, on its introduction into the stomach,
in a granular form, of what would otherwise be
firm, bulky, and compact. He further showed by
experiment, that simple dilution with water was
insufficient for this purpose, and that the object is
far better attained by adding a mixture of alka-
line or starchy waters with the mix. Dr. Carter
summed up by giving a decided practical prefer-
ence to barley water, and this conclusion he illus-
trated and supported by various experiments.


The following are some of the meanings
attached to precious stones: Diamond, in-
nocence; ruby, forgetfulness of vexations
caused by friendship and love; emerald,
success in love; sapphire, repentance; ame-
thyst, sincerity; garnet, coustancy; topaz
fidelity; turquoise, prosperity; opal, hope;
bloodstone, courage; agate, health and long
life; cornelian, contentment; sardonyx, con-
jugal fidelity; chrysolite, antidote against
madness; malachite is not a precious stone
but its color green, signifies hope.


