A VINDICATION OF WOMEN.

	With all the boasted chivalrous feeling of
the United States it is astonishing to see
how many of them are attributing to wo-
men the condition of things that has led to
the crimes and the disgrace of the late Sec-
retary of War. There have been innumer-
able sermons printed, in newspapers con-
ducted by men, on such texts as woman's
extravagance, woman's ambition, woman's
love of admiration, woman's fast living,
and woman's want of principle. All these
assumed characteristics of the sex in Ameri-
ca are illustrated by anecdotes or by scandal-
ous insinuations furnished by the wretched
creatures in men's clothing, who make their
living by the retail of personal gossip, mis-
named "society-news," for papers that cater
for the vulgar tastes of the people that fre-
quent the lowest kinds of balls, clubs and
bar-rooms, and the still lower resorts where
virtue in either sex is unknown and impos-
sible. If the women of American soci-
ety were really composed of such beings as
put themselves at the mercy of these crea-
tures, and allow them, or pay them to ad-
vertise their style of beauty, their wit,
their accomplishments, their dinners, their
receptions, their dress, their jewels, their
visiting lists, their followers of each sex,
and their utterly heartless, heathenish
worldliness, then one might well despair of
the country.					But happily
where one woman, or half a dozen women,
can be found to commit a disgrace that is
felt by the whole nation, there are millions
of women that are the very vital essence of
the goodness of the American people.
	Without these millions of good women
there would be no good men, or very few.
				Each one of these mil-
lions of good women, be she matron or
maid, is exercising a good influence, accord-
ing to her physical and her mental strength,
that tells upon the general condition of so-
ciety quite as much as does the influence of
each one of the small number of famously
bad, or silly, or extravagant women, one of
whom has lately been so ruthlessly held up
as a typical American woman by ignorant
or cowardly men.				The
old history of the Garden of Eden is re-
peating itself frequently. But in all recent
repetitions of it, especially in political af-
fairs, the Adam is the worst sinner. In
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred he puts
himself in the way of temptation, and in
most of these he is saved from a fatal fall
by his Eve. If his is the controlling spirit,
and he leads her to join him in sins of his
own devising, he is the party to be dis-
graced and punished. His Eve ought to be
treated at least with a little of the mercy
given so abundantly by a Divine being, in a
later dispensation, to a woman who had al-
ready sinned but was really repentant.
There was the one grand case of chivalry
that was more than knightly—THAT was di-
vine.—Ex,


