		SISTERS BE IN EARNEST.

	At the suggestion of President Brigham
Young we would call the attention of the
women of this Territory to the subject of sav-
ing grain. It is one important item which
President Young has labored diligently to im-
press upon this people ever since their residence
in these valleys. His advice has ever been to
the brethren to cultivate the soil and let the
mines, and mining speculations alone, for the
grain was of more consequence than gold or
silver. And these people are witnesses to that
fact; practically having experienced the scar-
city of provisions and especially of breadstuffs,
in the earlier settlement of this country.
	The Lord has blessed this people abundant-
ly in the few years past in their fields and in
their stores of grain and provisions; and as in al-
most every other case when there is a profusion
of blessings, the people who receive them be-
come indifferent and do not appreciate them as
they ought. The people have been careless in
regard to taking care of their grain and many
other things. In many instances they neglect
to pay their tithing, and dispose of their pro-
ducts in such a manner as, were it to continue,
the Lord would be sorely displeased with them.
This year grain is unusually low, yet the grass-
hoppers have been visiting different parts of the
Territory, and, it is feared by many, have laid
their eggs; therefore it is more than ever essen-
tial that such measures be taken as will secure
the grain now in market. The Relief Societies
and Co-operative organizations in which some
of the women of this Territory are interested,
have funds at their disposal from time to time,
which can be made available to carry out Presi-
dent Young's wishes in regard to b[-]ying and
taking care of the grain.
	It is no doubt the best investment of means
that could possibly be made, for if the prophe-
cies of the Scriptures, both ancient and modern,
and of Joseph Smith are to be fulfilled, which the
Latter-day Saints profess to believe, there will
be a desolating famine in the land; and if the
women of this Territory will be wise, and
hearken to the counsel given to them now,
there is no doubt that the result will be an emi-
nent success. If the means now on hand in the
societies and women's associations can be turn-
ed into grain, and such measures taken to store
it and preserve it from damp and all other
things that would damage, or destroy it, as can
be made practicable according to circumstances
and advantages, then one point will be gained
towards the temporal salvation of this people in
case of emergency.
	In whatever women undertake they are gen-
erally earnest, and our advice would be im-
mediately without any delay (except such as
is unavoidable) to commence to carry out Presi-
dent Young's counsel in this matter. Where
there is a will there is (almost invariably) a
way, and in this matter there should be a per-

[Column 2]
sonal and individual as well as a general in[-]er-
est. In order to satisfactorily accomplish any
scheme, one great object is to be in earnest; on
this earnestness depends much of the success of
whatever enterprise is undertaken. If you
determine to do any thing of whatever name or
nature, first be sure it is the proper thing to do,
and then without losing time, bring your ener-
gies into immediate requisition and you are
almost sure to succeed.
	The women of this Territory are capable of
carrying out President Young's counsel in this
matter; and if they do not they will be left with-
out excuse; he has called upon the brethren
until he has become wearied, and now he ap-
peals to the sisters. Is not this a proof of his
confidence in their desire to listen to counsel?
The sisters will have ample opportunity now to
prove their ability in financiering; and it is
greatly to be hoped that they will manifest
such earnestness in this matter as cannot fail to
accomplish the desired object.
	President Young further advises the sisters,
that they enter into such arrangements as are
applicable to their circumstances in their va-
rious districts and settlements, to build store-
houses for the storing of their grain in the sec-
tions of country as they shall divide off, or ap-
portion to certain localities; also that they so-
licit donations from their husbands and the
brethren to assist them in carrying out this en:
terprise, both for the building of the store-
houses and also in obtaining grain to fill them
and preserve it for future need.
	We sincerely hope that what has been said
will be sufficient to arouse a spirit of determin-
ation in the minds of the women of Utah, to
devise and to put in practice, such measures as
shall be economical and wise, and for the gen-
eral good of all concerned.
			[handwritten] E. B. Wells


