[COLUMN 2]

Twentieth Ward was held in the Relief
Society Hall, Sep. 13th, 1876. The leading
officers of the Senior and Junior Co-opera-
tive Association being present, also Elder
C. W. Staynes. President Mrs. Sarah How-
ard made a few opening remarks appropri-
ate to the occasion. Miss E. R. Snow then
addressed the meeting explaining the ob-
ject of these organizations etc.; said she
was present at the meeting when God,
through His Prophet commanded the intro-
duction of these organizations; said she
well remembered the occasion of the or-
ganization of this Association, and thought
we had improved our time well. She gave
good counsel and exhorted the mothers to
encourage their daughters to attend these
meetings, as great good would result there-
from. Mrs. M. I. Horne expressed her
pleasure of again having the privilege of
meeting with the sisters of the Twentieth
Ward, remembered Sister Snow making
the remark at their first meeting, that al-
though it was the last organized it would
not be the least, said she could see that
assertion had proved correct. Mrs. B.
Smith, Mrs. Persendia Kimball, Mrs Sarah
Kimball and Mrs. E. S. Barney gave ex-
cellent instructions, exhorting the young
ladies to be energetic in the pursuit of use-
ful knowledge. Elder C. W. Stayner then
spoke, explaining the responsibility that
will rest upon the young in filling import-
ant positions in preparing themselves to
guide the good ship Zion into its haven of
rest. He spoke lengthy and glowingly on
the upbuilding and future glory of Zion.
All present were greatly edified and a good
spirit prevailed.
	Report for the year ending Sept. 13th,
1876, of the Young Ladies Retrenchment
Association of the Twentieth Ward; this
association was organized Sep. 3rd., 1875,
by Miss Eliza R. Snow, with the following
ladies as officers: Mrs. Sarah Howard, Pres.,
Mrs. E. Stayner and Mrs. Isabella Glade,
Connselors, Mrs. Jane Fowler Superintend-
ent, Miss Rebecca Manning Sec. and forty-
one members. At a following meeting, Mrs.
Henrietta Simons, Mrs. Alice Simons, Miss
M. A. Sanson and Miss Janette Sharp were
elected as counselors, the two last named
ladies were also elected assistant secretar-
ies; but through unavoidable circumstances,
Miss M. A. Sanson has since resigned her
office as secretary, and Mrs. E. J. Mathews
has been appointed to fill the vacancy. We
have held regular meetings weekly and
with but few exceptions, have generally
had a good attendance. The meetings have
been very interesting and instructive, the
exercises consisting of essays, select read-
ing from church works and other good
books; and to add in bearing testimony to
the fulfillment of Sister Snows remarks,
made at our organization, there has been a
marked improvement. The society num-
bers at the present time, upwards of
150 members. A fund has been estab-
lished for the purpose of emigration, help-
ing the poor, or assisting in any good en-
terprise. Donations received for the fund,
and by a party given by the association,
amounting to $54,20, has been disbursed
for various benevolent purposes.
	President Mrs. Sarah Howard proposed
that a five cent temple fund be established
which met with a hearty approval, amount
received for said fund $5,05. It was also
proposed that we make a quilt for the ben-
efit of the fund. Received for purchasing
material for quilt $3,75.
	Total amount received........	$63 00
	Disbursements....................	  57 95

