				REVELATION.

	Speaking of the new freedom of man-
kind he says:
	"This is seen very especially in the per-
ception looming everywhere of the rights
of women. Not to mention other branches
of the subject, political rights, and the
rights of education may be adduced in
point. No reason has yet been given, why
Woman should be denied her experiment;

[Column 2]
why any real sphere of life should be clos-
ed against her; and her public free will be
abated or wholly or chiefly managed by the
masculine free will. The despotism over
her cannot last; her incessant cause will
wear it out, will tire it to death. When
she has been enfranchised, and barrier af-
ter barrier has been removed, when no stat-
ute not obviously sexual contains either
"he" or "she" distinctively, and all the ways
of life are open to her, and property is no
longer masculine but human, what will she
do with her freedom? There is no possibil-
ity of forecasting that future. It is adduced
only to show the new strain upon responsi-
bility which is coming; and how much God
and prayer will be needed to enable her to
bear the strain and to receive the light
which is required. Clearly many rights
will drop when the power to exercise them
is given. Clearly a new education for femi-
nine wisdom will accrue from her earnest
desire and inquiry to know what fields she
may occupy. It is obvious that freedom
and experiment alone can qualify her for
knowing her qualifications; that she will
then learn from failures and successes, as men
have done, where she is, and become a
teacher to herself. In the meantime, even
now, with Parliament against her she is
inwardly in the tension of this new free-
dom, and is not sure whether she is to be
as a man, or whether there is a whole new
womanly side to affairs and the state.

	Let male law be lifted off as a burden and
a shame, and woman be left to her proper
self determination; to be as much like a
man, or as little like a man as she pleases;
to vote, propose marriage, administer prop-
erty and the like, and her quality will
right itself, because her experimental in-
struction about her place can then begin."
	"In her thoughts of education also, the
same strain is felt. Is she to be as a young
man and a collegian here, and to be made
into a man-woman by exactly that education
which it is supposed has produced the pres-
ent masculine race with its dominant pow-
ers? It is not perhaps any person's busi-
ness to answer that question, but rather it
must be referred to experiment, of which
her new mental freedom is the condition.
The world must await the trial, and succor
the stress which it involves.
	It is evident that woman has the same
mental powers as men, but differently sex-
ed and centered. She can enter in her
way into all arts and sciences; she can sit
on thrones, command and lead armies, ex-
ert eloquent speech, make excellent litera-
ture, practice medicine and perform sur-
gery, preach in pulpits, and receive divine
communications. In short, the scale of her
powers is co-equal with his in all things. She
can do in every department what she has
an adequate affection for doing. But what
perhaps she cannot profitably do in the long
run is, to lay hold of things on the purely
intellectual side and enter upon them thus.
Her heart predominates, as the head pre-
dominates in the man. Now this being the
case, to give her equal chances with man,
a complete rehabilitation of knowledge in
her interests also is necessary, that she may
learn a corresponding heart-truth in every
detail for the man's head truth. Man has
the advantage of all his own intellectual
experience; gained through his own effort
by his own sexual process of thought. Wo-
man has no present advantage of the kind
before her; and must be content to enter
upon the faculties of man and their acqui-
sitions, at second hand. This is a grave
consideration for the advocates of the higher
education of women; indeed for their gen-

[Column 3]
eral education of all; that the intellect of
the heart that beautiful intellect, should
have no knowledge of nature and things,
and no learning at first hand, but only what
supplants its freedom, and is compelled up-
on it by the intellect of the head. It ar-
gues the throwing away of a marriageable
quality, the abeyance of the woman's in-
tellect before the man's.
	Is she to rewrite history to reconstruct
science, to reproduce metaphysics, to rein-
vent the arts, from her own womanly intel-
lect so as to have a world of her own, and
introduce it into harmonious and conjugal
relationship, as of the heart-mind with the
head-mind with the existing intellectual
fabrics, and art fabrics which is so prepon-
derantly of masculine growth? That can
hardly be intended; because what has been
done hitherto belongs to the past, and no
copy is possible; nay, no new originals that
follow the old lines. Moreover it is to be
hoped that the man has done, and is doing
the coarse work of thought, invention and
practice; and that his partner, in the days
of time, is to be saved that labor. Never-
theless it may be thought that Woman's
mind has a sphere of its own in everything;
and that all things through her faculties,
now that they are being filled with the new
free-will which is creative, will reappear in
their new heart-forms.

	Now the thought that c[--]es out of a true
sympathy is full of the finest natural truths.
The new Woman will therefore be present
by heart truths all through the common-
wealth, and will be prime minister of the
new man in his permitted administration
of the Godwealth. The coin of regenera-
tion will pass through her fingers in its frag-
ments and to its ends.—Woman's Journal.


