THE NEAR FUTURE.

	A San Francisco, California, prophet gives
us items of his predictions in regard to
events just about to transpire. We know
this to be an age fraught with wonders
great and marvellous; the Scriptures, Book
of Mormon, the prophecies of Joseph Smith,
all warn us of thrilling scenes, national revo-
lutions and fearful convulsions of the ele-
ments of nature's realm. Some of our
readers may like to hear what one of the
world's seers says, and for their benefit we
copy the prediction in full:
	"A dark cloud is visible over a great
part of the United States, between October
and the 10th of November. This denotes
ill feeling, stringency in money matters,
political disturbances, and want of harmony
in nearly all particulars. Somewhere about
October 20 or 25th, a great catastrophe will
occur in one of the large cities in the Uni-
ted States, involving much loss of life. A
dark cloud in the political horizon denotes
the near approach of the death of a politi-
cal leader of note, also to a renowned capi-
talist in the East. A convulsion of nature
is threatened upon this coast in October,
and great storms in the East. A very
prominent man upon this coast will be the
mark for many tongues in regard to finan-
cial integrity. After much trouble he will
probably save himself from utter ruin.
Disturbances of various kinds will trouble
the peace and quietness of the people in a
thickly populated part of this city, and
many alarming rumors will be prevalent in
October and November. In mining stocks
an unusual market is denoted in October,
and many sensational reports will be used
to check the growing bonanza, which stock
at the present time is but little thought of.
	In Europe, a nation now at peace, will
make warlike preparations, which will
probably end in war, but not during this
year. A great convulsion of nature is
threatened in a country situated to the
south. A country now at war in Europe
will by changes of administration settle all
difficulties and suspend hostilities during
the last of the year.
	In our own government a stupendous
fraud will be discovered near the seat of
government which will bring disgrace to
several very prominent officials. Figura-
tively a cloud visible, just rising in the
West, and the form it takes is that of a
man whose advent will overtake all exist-
ing forms of government. Many people
will flock to his standard during the early
part of '77, and the outlook of that year in-
dicates that it will be the most noted one of
the century."—Ex.


