NOTES AND NEWS.

	ANNA DICKINSON will soon appear in
Utica in her new play, and if she isn't suc-
cessful there will be a real tragedy.
	ALBERT WELLES of the Society Library
N. Y., is about to publish "The Pedigree
and History of the Washington family.
This will be authentic.
	MR. CHARLES Francis Adams, it is said,
is as persistent in work as was ever his fa-
ther or grandfather. Though he has a car-
riage, he seldom rides, and always walks
five miles or more every day, winter or
summer.
	THE BOSTON POST considers Mrs. Lucy
Stone a very wise woman in selecting the
Democratic party to represent the interests
of Woman Suffrage, the champion in the
cause being the Hon. Richard Fothering-
ham, and agreeing all petitions to Congress
be presented by him.
	PRINCE LOUIS Lucien Bonaparte has for
many years been engaged in superintending
the translation of portions of the English
version of the Scriptures into the various
dialects spoken in England and Scotland,
and travels about Britain collecting informa-
tion about these dialects.
	THE OREGON State Woman Suffrage As-
sociation held its second special session at
Salem, Oregon, opening on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 26, closing September 29. There
were morning, afternoon and evening ses-
sions. President Mrs. H. A. Loughary.
Judging from the minutes of the conven-
tion we have read, they transacted their
business in a very parliamentary like man-
ner, and the speeches of the woman work-
ers in the cause of temperance and the bal-
lot for women were earnest, spirited and
eloquent. The speech of the President Mrs.
Loughary we would gladly publish in full
if we had space; it contains some excellent
items, full of pith and calculated to arouse
dormant energies.
	THE EIGHTH annual meeting of the Amer-
ican Woman Suffrage Association com-
menced on Monday evening Oct. 2, at Han-
del and Hadyn Hall, Philadelphia. The
Hall was filled; Mrs. Mary A. Livermore
presided and made the opening address.
She dwelt earnestly upon the Temperance
question, the benefit it would be to that
cause to have the vote of women; the many
reasons that there were, why women should
have the ballot, and the many flimsy objec-
tions that men made to prevent it. Twen-
ty-five States were represented by delegates
some of them from long distances. There
was entire harmony of feeling according
to the accounts of the proceedings, and a
spirit of encouragement in regard to Wo-
man'a future representation in the govern-
ment. The meeting was a success pecuni-
arily, and every way. Committees of dif-
ferent kinds were appointed to act in vari-
ous capacities such as are identified with
the interests of the representations of such
conventions.


To be blest with happiness we must be
beautified with holiness.


