		HEBER CITY; WASATCH CO.,
						October 3d, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	We have a Relief Society here that meets
once a month to bring in our offerings for
the poor and bear testimony of the things
pertaining to the kingdom of God. Our
President, Margaret Muir has been talking
to the sisters here about learning to braid
straw and making their own hats, and also
to have shares in the co-operative store and
to trade among ourselves.
	On Wednesday and Thursday, September
27 and 28, we held a special meeting, Mrs.
E. S. Barney and Mrs. E. Howard were
present from Salt Lake City visiting in the
interest of the Societies and Deseret Silk
Association. Mrs. E. S. Barney in her address
to the sisters said they had visited already
ninteene meetings; spoke of the great work
which had been done in building up towns
and settlements and from what small be-
ginnings of Joseph Smith's mission to es-
tablish the Latter-day work; and the many
temples that must be built in the north and
south and all over the land of America, and
referred to the prophecy that the people
should "fly as doves to their windows, and
come on swift beasts;" she spoke consider-
ably upon the principles of Celestial Mar-
riage, and the follies and fashions of the
world and how they were creeping in among
this people.
	She dwelt most pointedly upon the de-
velopment of home industries, and the spe-
cialty of sericulture, its different depart-
ments from the planting out of the mul-
berry trees to its manufacture into the most
beautiful lace and ribbons, she touched up-
on the necessity of our living our religion
so we need not be scourged with grasshop-
pers and plagues of that nature; the train-
ing and educating our children in the
things pertaining to the kingdom of God,
the great benefits resulting from the organ-
izartions that had been established among
the women, and the privileges they enjoyed
in voting and closed with remarking that
she had been left an orphan and was self-
educated in nearly all respects.
	At the meeting on the following day, af-
ter the opening exercises Mrs. E. Howard
addressed the congregation first upon punc-
tuality; said it was the first meeting where
the people had come together at the appoint-
ed time. She exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in their societies and have a good
testimony of them enrolled upon the books;
she referred to the neglect of duties and
the ultimate result of such a course, that we
should be kind to our children and reason
with them and seek to preserve them from
temptation. She spoke of her astonish-
ment to see such a beautiful little city here
and thought it would be a good place in
which to carry out the United Order. She
dwelt considerably upon the useless waste
of time among the young, and their frivo-
lous ideas of love and marriage; she spoke

[Column 2]
of intemperence as being one of the great-
est curses to this nation or to any people
who would allow it to make inroads in a
community. She dwelt upon the Word of
Wisdom and the blessings attached to its
observance; the great detriment outside
trade was to this Territory, taking away the
means that would help to sustain and build
up our own institutions and manufacturies.
She said in Brigham City they had forty
home industries. She urged upon the sis-
ters the necessity of using economy in re-
gard to the smallest matters, also to teach
it to their little children, and that even in
the gathering up and saving of rags it was 
beneficial, that in saving rags they might
take the "Juvenile" and "Exponent" for
the benefit of their families.
	The instructions and counsel of these sis-
ters was very impressive, and will no doubt
be an incentive to action in the societies
they visit.
	We donated in Heber City for the Deser-
et Silk Association $16.20.
				ELLEN LEE, Secretary.


HOPE AND CUSTOM.—In our estimate of
the ills of life, we never sufficiently take
into our consideration the wonderful elas-
ticity of our moral frame, the unlooked-for,
the startling facility with which the human
mind accommodates itself to all change of
circumstance, making an object, and even a
joy from the hardest and seemingly the
least redeemed conditions of fate. The
man who watched the spider in his cell,
may have taken at least as much interest
in the watch as when engaged in the most
ardent and ambitious objects of his former
life; and he was but a type of [-]is brethren;
all in similar circumstances would have
fonnd some similar occupation. Let any
man look over his past life, let him recall,
not moments, not hours of agony, for to
them Custom lends not her blessed magic;
but let him single out some lengthened per-
iod of physical or moral endurance; in has-
tily reverting to it, it may seem at first, I
grant, altogether wretched; a series of days
marked with the black stone—the clouds
without a star; but let him look more close-
ly, it was not so during the time of suffer-
ing; a thousand little things in the bustle of
life, dormant and unheeded, then started
forth into notice, and became to him objects
of interest or diversion: the dreary present,
once familiar, glided away from him, not less
than if it had been all happiness; his mind
dwelt not on the dull intervals, but the step-
ping-stone it had created and placed at
each; and, by the moral dreaming which
for ever goes on within man's secret heart,
he lived a little within the immediate
world before him, as in the most sanguine
period of his youth, or the most scheming
of his maturity. So wonderful in equaliz-
ing all states and all times in the varying
tide of life, are these two rulers yet level-
ers of mankind, hope and custom, that the
very idea of an eternal punishment includes
that of an utter alteration of the whole
mechanism of the soul in its human state,
and no effort of an imagination, assisted by
past expecience. can conceive a state of
torture which custom can never blunt, and
from which the chainless and immaterial
spirit can never be beguiled into even a mo-
mentary escape.—Bulwe[-].


IT has been estimated that the annual
production of paper of all kinds in the
world amounts to 1,800,000,000 lbs. Half
of this is used for printing purposes.


