R. S. REPORTS.

TOOELE CITY, Sep. 25th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On Thursday, the 14th of this month, we
had the pleasure of a visit from Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, and Mrs. E. How-
ard. Meetings were held two days, and
some very valuable instruction was given;
the sisters had gathered from the different
settlements in Tooele County to hear the
words of life, and they were not disap-
pointed; much that was said related to cul-
tivating ourselves; that we should cultivate
our spirits as well as our bodies, that we
may become thoroughly pure and noble in
disposition and actions, so that our whole
lives may be spent in doing good. Consid-
erable was said about home manufacture
and the culture of silk. A committee was ap-
pointed to attend to the silk industry, and
the Saints were forcibly shown the neces-
sity of moving forward in all things both
temporal and spiritual.
	That heaven's choicest blessings may
rest continually upon those who labor so
faithfully for Zion, is the prayer of your
Sister,
	 EMILY WARBURTON.
		Secretary.

SANTAQUIN, Sep. 25th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our 8th Annual Meeting took place Sept.
14th, 1876. Our School House was decora-
ted for the occasion, with the HOME INDUS-
TRIES of the sisters, consisting of bed
quilts, rugs, embroidery, and crotchet work
of every description, fancy quilting, mil-
lenery, and even wooden-bottomed shoes;
but the most conspicuous of all was the
coverlets, shawls and flannel made by the
sisters in Santaquin.
	On the stand was our President, Mrs.
Elizabeth Stickney, Pres't. Jane Simonds
of Payson, with her first Counselor and
Secretary, also Presidents Mary Johnson of
Goshen, and Elizabeth Broadbent of Spring
Lake District, and Bishop George Halla-
day. Many other visitors from Payson and
Goshen were present.
	After the usual exercises of reading the
minutes, etc., the Annual report was read
by the Secretary, showing we had received
during the year.........................	$184,87
	Disbursed do....................	  125 84
	The Young Ladies' Improvement Asso-
ciation, held their 3rd Annual meeting at
the same time; their report, and also the re-
port from Spring Lake District was very
favorable.
	The meeting was addressed by Presidents
Stickney, Simonds, and Johnson; Mrs.
Douglas, Bishop Halladay, and Bro. Coombs
of Payson. All the remarks were encour-
aging, and expressive of their pleasure in
hearing our reports, and in beholding the
products of the talents of our sisters.
	Our President is a good financier, as well
as a great economist. Nothing is wasted
that can be turned to account for the benefit
of the poor. She is herself, humble, kind,
and loving, respected by all who know her,
and we wish her long to be our president.
	Wishing great success to your valuable
paper, we beg to remain yours in the new and
everlasting covenant,
	ELIZABETH J. STICKNEY, Prest.
