			THE SECRETARY.

	Dear brethren and sisters, I do not know
what may be your feelings on this occasion,
but mine are full of intense gratitude to
the author of every good and perfect gift.
	While contemplating the display of the
sisters' home-made work, so gracefully dec-
corating these walls, I cannot help feeling
grateful to God, that he has blest our sisters
with such talents, and so inspired the hearts
of worthy men and women, to introduce
into our church such a heavenly society as
the Relief Society is. There is nothing
but the Relief Society that can so effectu-
ally carry out the one great principle ever
taught by our Saviour while upon the earth.
Except ye have charity, nothing will avail
you.
	If our society cannot make the display
that other settlements have done before us,
it is not for the want of talent or energy,
but for the want of time and means. We
as a society are composed of poor sisters,
who have to labor with our husbands and
sons, and whose means are but limited. We
have a number of poor families to care for,
and our disbursements many times exceed
our income. We have a President who is
ever alive to the wants of the poor and the
needy, and who well knows how to dis-
pose of the means intrusted to her care, for
their relief, likewise when sickness and
death are in our midst you will always find
Prest. Elizabeth Stickney among the first
to visit and administer to the afflicted ones.
We have wise counselors, faithful teachers,
and a good treasurer; we also have about
one hundred or more faithful sisters who
can stand up at our meetings and nobly
bear their testimonies and who love to give
their mites for the up-building of the King-
dom of God, and who relieve the wants of
the poor widows, orphans, aged and dis-
tressed, and who say they never miss what
they give to the Relief Society. We like-
wise have a kind father in our Bishop, who
knows how to advise us in any difficulty,
and who cares for our welfare in every par-
ticular.
	That our Society, although poor, is blest
with faithfulness, unity and love, is a fact
not to be denied; therefore it is for this that
I feel full of gratitude to God at this time,
who has blest us so richly ever since this
society was organized here, by our beloved
but departed brother, Pres. D. H. Holladay,
who said that the society should be blest,
and that it should never fall.
	May God bless us, one and all, and save
us in His celestial kingdom, is my prayer in
the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
								E. C.


[Column 1]
