[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Examples | Author: Sharp]
Examples of the Believers Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 29, 1955] HIS past summer it was our great pleasure to be taken on a trip to the Church historic landmarks, beginning with Vermont, the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and ending at Independence, Jackson County, Missouri, on our way back West. We traveled quickly, in ease and comfort, but our thoughts plodded along with the teams and wagons of our ancestors, as they went from Pennsylvania to Ohio and then to Nauvoo the Beautiful, there to meet their Prophet and cast in their lot with the saints. In spite of the contrast in our modes of travel, in highways and surrounding landscapes, we knew that in our hearts, as in theirs, burned the same testimony of the divinity of the gospel, and the sure knowledge that Joseph Smith was the Prophet of the Lord through whom the gospel was restored. Traveling rapidly from one historic place to another, the events of the restoration fell into their proper places in the complete pattern. Not by chance, we felt, did the father of the Prophet experience misfortunes which resulted in his leaving behind New England and settling on a farm in New York near the Hill Cumorah where the gold plates, in the providence of God, were to be handed over to: the boy Prophet. We saw the small schoolhouse where Oliver Cowdery taught, near the Smith farm where he boarded. We visited the nearby homestead of Martin Harris and climbed up the stairs of the shop in Palmyra to where The Book of Mormon was printed. We rode down to Harmony near the shores of the beautiful Susquehanna River — then back to Fayette to the Whitmer home where the Church was organized with six young men members, the Prophet and his brothers Hyrum and Samuel, and Oliver Cowdery David Whitmer, and Peter Whitmer, Jr. We commented on the plan for the bringing forth of the gospel, how the men who were foreordained for their particular parts were sent to earth at the proper time and in places where they could accomplish their appointed work. On our trip we next visited the Kirtland Temple, built in the midst of the saints' poverty, a beautiful structure wherein the Savior himself appeared. But its sacredness, to us, had been lost. _ The marks of the burnings, plunderings, and persecutions experienced by the saints in Missouri have been obliterated by time. But the lands remain to be redeemed. 'The cornerstones for temples were laid as directed by the Lord, but the temples are not yet erected. Back to Illinois fled the saints for refuge. 'Today the beautiful locaPage 723 724 tion of Nauvoo remains on a bend of the majestic Mississippi River. Many of its lovely old homes still stand, sacrificed at the call of the new leader Brigham Young. With the abandonment of the city by the saints, however, there also seemed to leave the spirit of progress. There were two historic landmarks which to us still retained the spirit of events which transpired therein. One was Carthage Jail—some miles south of Nauvoo, where the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hytum, divided neither in life nor death, were martyred. An oppressive heaviness of guilt still seemed to hang over Carthage. On beholding the window of the jail from which the Prophet fell dead, and the curbstone of the well underneath where the mob propped his body and pumped bullets into it, and seeing within the rooms and cells, awakened in our soul a weight of grief. As we contemplated the events that transpired there, we recalled the words of the Doctrine and Covenants, which say that Joseph did '".. More, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it " We were also reminded of the further words "... That The Book of Mormon, and this book of Doctrine and Covenants of the Church, cost the best blood of the nineteenth century to bring them forth for the salvation of a ruined world..." (D. & C. 135:3, 6). Never before, to us, had the debt which we owe to the Prophet Joseph loomed so great. Finally we mention last, the Sacred Grove. There still seemed to linger there an ineffable spirit which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 caught at the heartstrings and brought joy and peace. We were filled with an overpowering realization of the love of our Father and Savior for each one of us. It was an unforgettable experience to be cherished forever. Throughout our journey historical memories took on reality and substance, as we left behind the beauty of New England, the fertility of New York, the rolling verdure of Ohio, the lush growth of Missouri, the grandness of the sweeping waters of the great Mississippi, to turn westward to the destination of the saints, a parched, desert land set amid loneliness. OME of us today live in this land which they made to blossom as the rose, many others of us live in other lands flowing with milk and honey; few live where persecution has rot died down. It is not so easy to designate the trials and troubles which we experience today, but the Lord will have a tried and tested people. We, also, are subject to the temptations of Satan and heir to the cares and sorrows of the world. Many of our temptations parallel those of the saints of the earlier days of the restoration. Many have always been called to serve but few chosen. Then as now, apostasy began over disagreements as to the way, perhaps, the Authorities were conducting the affairs of the Church, or members took exception to some ruling or instruction. And when we saw a temple that had been desecrated, we were reminded that our bodies are the temples of our spirits and that neith- EXAMPLES OF THE BELIEVERS er will the spirit of the Lord dwell in our temples, if we defile them. The saints were obedient to counsel. 'They sowed where they were not permitted to reap. I heard a sister say recently, "What is the use of storing commodities, if the Government is just going to take them away from us?" Following the example of our forebears, the sole concern for us today is also to follow counsel and leave the outcome to the Lord. One great lesson which was borne in upon us as the result of this trip was the realization of the great requirements which will be made of us, if we gain eternal life. You will recall the rich young ruler who ran and knelt at the Savior's feet and asked, "Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?" Jesus reminded him of some commandments and he replied, "... All these have I observed from my youth" (Mark 10:20). Then, we are told, Jesus beheld him and loved him and said "... One thing thou lackest: go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow me" (Mark 10:21). We read "And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved: for he had great possessions" (Mark 10:22). The early-day saints of the restoration kept the commandments, time and again they left behind their ma- 725 terial possessions, and they fulfilled the third requirement of taking the cross and following in the footsteps of the Master. 'The thousands of us assembled here today and tens of thousands throughout the world testify as the fruit of their labors. Today it is easy to live some of the commandments, harder to give away our possessions, and hardest of all to give ourselves. Yet the Lord makes it possible for his children to gain eternal life, if they will only serve him. To help perfect the sisters and at the same time to assist others, the Prophet Joseph himself was inspired to organize the Relief Society. Relief Society assists women to obey the injunction which Paul gave to Timothy " be thou an example of the believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity" (1 Timothy 4:12). Our great goal is to gain eterna life. Great examples of believers are found in the way those who established the Church gave of themselves, some even to the death. It is good to remember the heritage which is ours either by lineage or adoption, and it is wise to take advantage of the means which the Lord has given for our perfection. That each of us may gain or strengthen our knowledge that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and live righteously to earn eternal life, is my prayer.