[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
[Work Meeting: Meat Selection and Preparation Rhea H. Gardner]
viyorR    n ieeting — Food  Preparation  and  Service 
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  5— Meat  Selection  and  Preparation 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
For  Tuesday,  February  14,  1956 
fVF  all  the  basic  foods,  shoppers 
usually  know  least  about  meat. 
Yet  in  a  recent  survey  made  by  the 
United  States  Department  of  Agri- 
culture of  family  food  consumption 
in  sixty-eight  urban  communities, 
twenty-four  cents  out  of  every  food 
dollar  was  spent  for  meat.  Ignor- 
ance is  not  bliss  when  it  concerns 
nearly  twenty-five  per  cent  of  the 
food  budget. 
Study  and  experience  are  neces- 
sary before  one  can  be  a  successful 
meat  shopper.  Customers  often 
complain  about  the  high  prices 
which  they  helped  to  push  up.  That 
is  just  what  we  do  whenever  we  con- 
tinue to  demand  the  comparatively 
small  per  cent  of  choice  cuts  and 
ignore  the  others.  In  beef,  the  cuts 
most  people  know  best  are  steaks 
and  rib  roasts.  They  come  from 
about   twenty-six  per   cent   of   the 
weight  of  a  side  of  beef,  yet  they 
often  sell  for  as  much  as  the  other 
seventy-four  per  cent. 
The  Government  demands  that 
all  meat  be  inspected  and  stamped. 
A  high  percentage  of  it  is  also 
graded.  Government  grades  are: 
First  grade,  U.  S.  Prime;  Second 
grade,  U.  S.  Choice;  Third  grade, 
U.  S.  Good;  Fourth  grade,  U.  S. 
Commercial;  United  States  Choice 
and  U.  S.  Good  are  the  highest 
grades  usually  found  in  retail  mark- 
ets, since  beef  from  only  about  one 
per  cent  of  all  cattle  is  prime.  The 
round,  purplish  blue  stamp  that  ap- 
pears on  meat  is  not  an  indication 
of  grade.  It  means  merely  that  the 
meat  was  Government  inspected 
and  that  it  came  from  a  healthy  ani- 
mal. 
Many  shoppers  buy  more  costly 
cuts  of  meat  than  are  required  for
