[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Fiction | Title: Making | Author: Romolo]
[Making Original Christmas Cards Gene Romolo]
Iliaryi  iblizaoeth  cJorman   K^alkins    1 1  Lakes 
Jrifghan  in     cJhunaermra     Lrattern 
MRS.  Mary  Elizabeth  F.  Calkins,  Sheridan,  Wyoming,  is  ninety-eight  years  old,  but 
still  active  and  happy  —  still  making  beautiful  gifts  for  her  friends  and  relatives. 
She  believes  that  there  is  no  substitute  for  busy  minds  and  hands,  and,  alternating  with 
her  housework,  it  has  long  been  her  custom  to  have  a  quilt  on  the  frames,  some  crochet 
work  handy,  or  some  other  handicraft  to  occupy  herself  "while  resting." 
The  beautiful  and  unique  afghan  shown  in  the  picture,  in  the  colorful  "Thunder- 
bird"  design,  has  won  several  awards  at  various  county  fairs  and  has  been  acclaimed 
a  most  unusual  piece  of  work.  Though  not  able  to  do  handwork  in  intricate  designs 
and  with  fine  thread,  as  she  did  in  her  younger  years,  Mrs.  Calkins  still  crochets,  makes 
lace  edges  for  towels,  crochets  doilies  and  potholders.  She  has  made  many  quilts  in 
both  silk  and  cotton  and  has  crocheted  a  large  number  of  bedspreads  and  tablecloths. 
She  reads  extensively,  particularly  the  books  dealing  with  Church  doctrine  and 
history,  and  when  living  temporarily  in  Salt  Lake  City,  she  accomplished  much  gen- 
ealogical and  temple  work.  She  often  picks  up  a  newspaper  and  starts  to  read  without 
her  glasses,  until  she  is  reminded  to  put  them  on. 
Mary  Elizabeth  Forman  Calkins  came  West  by  prairie  schooner  in  1861  and  mar- 
ried Israel  Calkins  m  1878.  She  is  the  mother  of  three  children,  has  twelve  grand- 
children, and  twenty-three  great-grandchildren,  and  has  been  a  widow  since  1915.  Of 
late  years  she  has  not  been  able  to  attend  Church  services  regularly,  yet,  since  her 
ninetieth  birthday,  she  has  made  several  yearly  one-hundred  per  cent  record  attendances 
at  Relief  Society  meetings  and  Sunday  School. 
Page  757

niaking  (Anginal  (^hnstmas  L^ards 
Gene  Romolo 
npHIS  article  is  especially  for  those  who  have  never  tried  to  design  and  make  their 
-^       greeting  cards  at  Christmas. 
The  amount  of  pleasure  that  can  be  obtained  at  this  season  of  the  year  from  a 
pencil  and  a  box  of  water  colors  is  surprising.  Not  only  does  the  one  who  paints  find 
pleasure  in  the  occupation,  but  the  recipient  of  the  card  also  takes  pleasure  in  receiving 
a  gift  made  for  her  personally. 
Paper  for  making  booklets  can  be  obtained  from  an  art  or  stationery  store.  Single 
cards  with  stamped  designs  can  also  be  obtained  there.  If  one  finds  it  difficult  to  do 
freehand  drawing,  these  cards  are  convenient  and,  when  painted,  are  very  attractive.  The 
use  of  sequins  and  glitter  often  increases  the  attractiveness  of  Christmas  cards. 
If  one  has  any  writing  ability,  it  makes  the  cards  more  desirable  if  the  lines  they  con- 
tain are  personal.  When  it  is  possible  to  use  rhyme,  follow  that  pattern;  if  not,  a  short 
message  in  prose  is  appropriate. 
At  first,  if  you  desire  to  make  booklets,  look  at  some  cards  you  may  have  and  note 
how  they  are  folded.  As  you  progress,  you  will  be  surprised  at  the  number  of  original 
ideas  which  will  present  themselves.  I  started  my  card  making  by  painting  a  sprig  of 
holly  on  a  booklet  with  an  original  verse  written  on  the  inside.  Most  people  appreciate 
a  specially  prepared  gift. 
The  following  is  a  sample  of  lines  that  might  be  used: 
For  You  at  Christmas 
Christmas  tapers  burn  for  you 
On  my  tree.     My  window,  too, 
Holds  a  friendly  candle's  flame, 
Christmas  greetings  to  proclaim. 
I  sometimes  write  my  verse  first  and  then  paint  the  design,  making  it  conform  with 
the  words. 
cJne  (constant  uieart 
Ethel  Jacohson 
The  rose  is  gone,  the  summer  dead; 
No  fragrance  lingers  since  she  fled. 
But  after  days  of  wind  and  snow, 
Another  rose  will  bloom,  I  know. 
I  tell  my  heart,  a  fairer  one 
Will  grace  the  bough  when  winter's  done. 
O  perverse  heart,  with  longing  haunted — 
And  but  one  rose  it  ever  wanted! 
Page  758