[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Be Thou | Author: Simonsen]
© 'Be Thou Humble: and the Lord Thy God Shall Lead Thee by the Hand"' Counselor Velma N. Simonsen [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 29, 1955] today. I sincerely pray that I am humble in the way the Lord would have me humble, for as I have studied the scriptures, in preparation for this talk, I became more thoroughly convinced than ever before that only through true humility may we receive the inspiration and guidance of the Holy Spirit. The Lord has blessed this universe with immeasurable abundance. We, as a Church, have been profoundly blessed, and if we were to attempt to recount all our individual blessings, I am sure we would find them beyond computation. If, in the luxury of such magnanimous abundance, we were to get a feeling of self-sufficiency and fail to acknowledge God as the Giver of all goodness, we not only would be unpardonably stupid, but we would be guilty of gross ingratitude, a grievous sin; and we would incur the deep displeasure of the Lord, for he has said "And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey his commandments" (D. & C. 5Quaae) By the light, knowledge, and intelligence that flows from heaven, I feel very humble standing here man has gained control and put to his use many of the forces of nature. But not all of them, he still is not the absolute master of the universe. We see about us every day glaring examples of the combined inde- I pendence and helplessness of man. His will and his partial control of the forces about him make him virtually independent of most earthly conditions; while his natural limitations make him mutually dependent upon his fellow man and upon the natural forces around him. He can, now, do many great and marvelous things: build ships, fly in the air, speak around the earth, and daily he is adding to his use, unbelievably stupendous inventions and awesome discoveries either for our good or our destruction. Yet how helpless he is to create a living being or to prevent death or disaster, which can come to his amazing enterprises by the mere flick of an eyelash, War's destructfulness ought to make us very humble. We are no more capable of saving the world from disaster than we are of creating it. Of course, we are proud of our human accomplishments, and, as a people, we can justifiably point with pride to the accomplishments of "BE THOU HUMBLE" the Church, but we must rigidly guard against egotistical boastings and a feeling of brash self-sufficiency. 'I'he Lord has warned his people throughout all generations to beware of boasting and pride. 'The oftquoted proverb tells us that "Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall" (Proverbs 16:18). A family of crows lived in the field next to Farmer Brown's house. One day a white crow was born to this family. Now, in "birddom" a white crow is a very great rarity. So the family was very proud indeed of the white crow. They bragged and they boasted until they lost nearly all their friends. 'They showered so much attention and treated so differently the white crow that they made him very useless even for a crow. One day they decided to give a great banquet for him. So at the time of the first full moon they invited all the neighborhood crows to come to the feast. They set the white crow on a perch where the moon shone full upon him and where everyone might see and admire him. 'Then they began to sing his praises. 'The noise was so great Farmer Brown could scarcely stand it. He took his shotgun and went to the door. The black crows in the background he could not see, but the white crow sitting on the perch with the moon shining full upon him made a conspicuous target for the blast of Farmer Brown's shotgun. I am sure that throughout your reading of the Book of Mormon you have been conscious of how the rise and fall of the people, of that time, closely paralleled the absence 727 or the presence of pride. Helaman tells us that when pride entered into the hearts of the people they were puffed up and began to do great evil. But those who fasted and prayed became stronger and stronger in their humility. In the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord repeatedly tells us of the dangers of pride and the blessings for those who are humble. He said, "Be thou humble; and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand" (D. & C. 112:10). HE Savior, our example in all things, taught us the worth and power of humility. Never once did he enumerate his accomplishments, nor boast of his power. He had no need to do so, nor do we. It is unbecoming both as a people and as individuals. Jesus did not stand on the dignity of his position, but he came down and mingled with all classes, that he might understand and serve them. He exhibited no condescension, he never patronized. He repeatedly stated that he was meek and lowly of heart. He did not mean that he had a low estimate of his powers. By humility Jesus meant teachableness, willingness to learn and willingness to serve cheerfully. On one occasion, he said, "And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister" (Mt. 20:27-28). In all walks of life and in all ages, the truly great are always humble and approachable. 'They lack even the appearance of ostentation. The greater they are the more humble they become. 'They realize their own limitations and the immensity 728. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 of the unknown. Like the noted eminent discoverer Sir Isaac C. Newton, they feel that they have gathered a few grains of sand from the seashore while the vast ocean lies unexplored before them. Cecil Rhodes, the great British empire builder of South Africa, after his wonderful. Achievements, as he lay dying said, "So little done, so much to do." We can well apply this to our Church activity. 'The more we have, the greater our accomplishments, the more recognition the world accords us, the more humble we should become. True humility does not grovel; it is royal, and its possessors have mastered some of the forces that determine true character. 'They have learned self-control, one of the great lessons in life. 'They are not cowardly, they are not numbered with those who dare not resent an injury. 'They are not too spiritless to protest against injustice, they are not devoid of vigor, but they are not haughty, vain, resentful, arrogant, or proud. They have learned to yield graciously to the Father's will. They are not demanding. Recently I heard a Sunday School class let their discussion carry them into the subject of "What does God owe us?" Can you imagine that? I am sure they did not realize the position to which they were relegating the Father. They were brought to this realization, however, by one of the members who said, "There is not a person living upon the earth who will not have to plead for mercy when he comes before the judgment seat of God." The Lord has given magnanimous promises of rewards and exaltation to those who "humble themselves before him, and keep his commandments," but he will never be in our debt. Let us, as leaders in the Church and as mothers in Zion, set the example of reverence and humility in our positions, in our lives, and in our homes before our children. There seems to be a growing tendency, especially among our young people when praying to the Lord, asking for his favors and blessings, to address him with the familiar term of you and your instead of thee and thine and thou. Let us teach our children to approach the Lord in deep humility and with worshipful reverence. Help them to know that humility is power, for the Lord has said that he. Will take the weak things of the world to confound the mighty. May we, in our justifiable pride in the accomplishments of the Church and in our exquisite joy in being partakers of such blessings as the gospel brings to us, walk in true humility before the Lord I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.