[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    Ljears  Jtgo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  November  i,  and  November  15,  1895 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
EUGENE  FIELD:  Eugene  Field  the  beloved  poet  and  man  of  letters,  died  sud- 
denly and  without  warning,  Nov.  4th,  at  day  break;  the  news  made  not  only  Chicago 
sad  but  thousands  throughout  the  country  will  mourn  the  loss  of  one  of  the  brightest 
geniuses  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
— Selected 
THE  VALUE  OF  TIME:  Perhaps  it  is  not  too  much  to  assert  that  the  majority 
of  women  have  very  inadequate  conceptions  of  the  value  and  extent  of  time  ....  The 
woman  who,  in  femmine  parlance,  "accomplishes"  much  is  the  woman  who  has  learned 
to  use  and  save  her  minutes  ....  A  very  few  misspent  hours  destroy  a  day's  usefulness. 
Almost  as  deplorable  as  the  waster  of  time  in  gossip  is  the  woman  who  never  has  time 
for  a  pleasant  chat  with  her  friends  and  whose  mind  is  so  crowded  with  household  or 
social  cares  that  she  inwardly  begrudges  the  time  given  to  a  caller. 
—Ex. 
THANKSGIVING 
The  year  decays,  November's  blast 
Through  leafless  boughs  pipes  shrill  and  drear. 
With  warmer  love  the  home  clasps  fast 
The  hands,  the  hearts,  the  friends  most  dear  .... 
— New  York  Sun 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  SAN  LUIS  STAKE,  COLORADO: 
Present  and  on  the  stand  were  President  Mortenson  and  Counselors,  Magdalene  Funk 
and  Jane  Crowther,  and  many  of  the  leading  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  stake.  Meet- 
ing opened  with  singing  and  prayer.  Cornelia  Mortenson  .  .  .  was  pleased  to  meet  with 
the  saints  on  such  a  beautiful  morning,  prayed  for  the  spirit  of  God  to  direct  us.  Verbal 
reports  were  then  called  for,  which  were  responded  to  cheerfully.  The  spirit  of  the 
speakers  in  general  was  good,  and  the  storing  of  grain  was  made  the  important  sub- 
ject ...  a  letter  from  Zina  D.  H.  Young  was  read  .  .  .  ,  Bishop  S.  C.  Bethelsen  made 
a  motion  that  the  brethren  sustain  the  sisters  with  their  means  as  well  as  by  their 
faith  ....  — Laura  J.  M.  Petersen,  Sec.  pro-tem. 
ELIZABETH  CADY  STANTON:  Mrs.  Stanton  with  Lucretia  Mott,  the  ven- 
erable Quaker,  called  the  first  "Woman's  Rights  Convention"  ever  known;  it  met  at 
Seneca  Falls,  New  York,  July  19th  and  20th,  1848,  a  day  which  will  be  ever  memorable 
in  the  history  of  the  country  ....  Mrs.  Stanton  has  ever  been  a  model  housekeeper, 
a  devoted  wife  and  mother  ....  Mrs.  Stanton's  whole  life  is  a  forcible  argument  in 
favor  of  equal  suffrage  ....  — Editorial  by  Emmeline  B.  Wells 
FROM  A  FAR  COUNTRY  —  IN  MEMORIAM:  Sister  Francis  Crosby  Brown 
died  at  her  home  in  Nutrioso,  Apache  Co,  Arizona,  on  October  12,  1895.  Sister  Brown 
was  born  in  Yarmouth,  Nova  Scotia,  Oct.  31st,  1817  .  .  .  .  She  received  her  blessings 
in  the  Nauvoo  Temple  in  1846  .  .  .  and  reached  Salt  Lake  Valley  Sept  21st,  1848,  and 
after  a  short  stay  in  the  old  fort  .  .  .  she  moNcd  with  her  husband  and  family  to  St. 
George  .  .  .  and  may  really  be  called  a  pioneer  in  the  settlements  of  Nauvoo,  Salt  Lake, 
and  St.  George  ....  She  moved  to  Arizona  in  1883  ...  ,  She  has  acted  as  ward 
President  of  the  Relief  Society  in  Nutrioso  ....  She  died  firm  in  the  faith  of  a  glori- 
ous resurrection  with  the  just  .... 
— G.  H.  C. 
Page  742