[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: 772 Social Science: The Organization and Powers of the Government of the United States Albert R. Bowen]
CLOSING  SOCIAL,  May  23,  1955 
Left  to  right:  Hansena  Burr,  President;  Mabel  Bray,  Secretary;  Hope  Hilton,  social 
science  class  leader;  F'rances  G.  Callahan,  visiting  teacher  message  leader;  Sarah  E.  F. 
Jones,  chorister;  Nettie  D.  Jenkins,  First  Counselor;  Blanche  H.  Groneman,  Second 
Counselor.

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
761 
The  closing  social  in  the  Provo  First  Ward  was  observed  as  a  surprise  party  for 
the  members.  Orah  Van  Wagoner,  President,  Provo  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "A 
new  blackboard  was  placed  on  the  wall,  a  new  piano,  and  a  large  Book  of  Memories 
of  the  history  of  the  Provo  First  Ward  Relief  Society  for  eighty-seven  years  (1868-1955) 
were  presented  to  those  assembled.  This  book  recorded  the  highlights  of  the  organ- 
ization over  this  period,  during  which  time  twenty-two  presidents  have  served,  ranging 
in  tenure  of  office  from  twenty-two  years  to  a  few  months.  At  this  writing  there  are 
seven  living  presidents  of  the  Provo  First  Ward  Relief  Society.  The  first  president, 
Maria  Caroline  Johnson,  served  twenty-two  years  ....  She  was  the  maternal  grand- 
mother of  our  general  board  member  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.  This  book  is  an 
outstanding  gift  to  our  organization,  out  of  which  one  may  gather  much  food  for 
thought  and  history  of  the  past.  It  was  compiled  by  Frances  G.  Callahan,  literature 
class  leader,  as  an  assignment  from  the  presidency.  The  dimensions  of  the  book  are 
two  feet  by  two  and  a  half  feet,  and  two  inches  thick.  It  is  a  loose-leaf  book  and  can 
be  added  to  from  time  to  time,  thus  keeping  a  record  in  years  to  come." 
Photograph  submitted  by  Cleona  W.  Hedenstrom 
OGDEN  STAKE    (UTAH),  THIRTY-FIRST  WARD  ANNIVERSARY  PARTY, 
March  17,  1955 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Verna  West;  Hannah  Knight,  Secretary -Treasurer;  Mary 
Perkins,  President;  Leah  Taylor,  First  Counselor;  Hattie  Jones,  Second  Counselor;  Edna 
Tribe,  Second  Counselor,  Ogden  Stake  Rehef  Society;  Cleona  W.  Hedenstrom,  Presi- 
dent, Ogden  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Second  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Ada  Egginton;  Elaine  Yssel;  Isabel  Rhodes; 
Myrtle  Malan;  Nettie  Cherry;  Effie  Alvord;  Hulda  Rippin;  Edith  Arnold. 
Sister  Hedenstrom  reports  this  unusual  entertainment:  "Special  features  of  this 
most  successful  and  outstanding  anniversary  party  were  the  beautiful  basket  and  the 
forty-three  handkerchiefs  with  crocheted  edges  which  it  contained.  The  visiting  teach- 
ers and  officers  were  honored  by  being  each  one  presented  with  one  of  these  lovely 
gifts  for  their  faithful  service  to  Relief  Society.  The  handkerchiefs  were  made  by 
Sisters  Mary  Perkins,  Hattie  Jones,  and  Effie  Hoskins."

762 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1955 
Photograph   submitted   by   Zettella   W.    Thurman 
EAST  MILL  CREEK  STAKE   (UTAH),  WARD  AND  STAKE  RELIEF 
SOCIETY  PRESIDENTS 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Ardella  Vance;  Carrie  Howick;  Erma  Dixon;  Alice 
Ottley;  Zettella  W.  Thurman,  President,  East  Mill  Creek  Stake  Relief  Society;  Muriel 
Mallory;  Lillus  Wimmer;  Ethel  Cottrell;  Wilma  Carter. 
Second  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Genevieve  Baraclough;  Mary  Brain;  Elsie  Gil- 
lis;  Annie  Jensen;  Elizabeth  Larsen;  Lucille  Richins;  Zina  White;  Winifred  Johnson; 
Delsa  Hale;  Eileen  Dunyon. 
Back  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Mary  Marlow;  LaVern  Cooms;  Mildred  Dahl- 
berg;  Ada  Worthen;  Thelma  Dansie;  Verna  Mellville;  Myrtle  Rappleye;  Marion  Mar- 
getts;  Lois  Pugh;  Ellen  Silver;  Mae  Bond;  Florence  McMillan. 
Sister  Thurman,  in  reporting  some  events  in  the  history  of  the  East  Mill  Creek 
Stake  Relief  Society,  states:  ''East  Mill  Creek  Stake  was  organized  July  15,  1945.  This 
July  was  its  tenth  anniversary.  Sara  E.  Bateman  was  the  first  Relief  Society  president, 
and  the  following  women  have  served  since  that  time:  Carrie  Howick,  Muriel  Mallory, 
Erma  Dixon,  Ahce  Ottley,  and  the  present  President  Zetella  W.  Thurman.  In  the  fall 
of  1951,  Alice  Ottley  was  called,  with  her  husband,  to  the  New. Zealand  Mission  .... 
At  the  present  time  there  are  nine  wards  in  the  stake,  with  2,166  families.  It  is  said 
that  East  Mill  Creek  is  one  of  the  fastest  growing  stakes  in  the  Church.  Only  one 
former  stake  president  of  Rehef  Society  is  not  in  the  picture  —  Sister  Bateman,  who 
has  passed  away." 
Photograph  submitted  by  Ruby  F.  Olson 
NORTH  IDAHO  FALLS  STAKE  SINGING  MOTHERS  PRESENT  MUSIC  FOR 
OPENING  SOCIAL,  September  10,  1954 
Stake  organist  Ina  Rasmusson  is  seated  at  the  piano,  and  stake  chorister  Margaret 
Jenkins  is  standing  at  the  right  end  of  the  piano.

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
763 
During  this  delightful  entertainment,  which  was  held  in  the  evening,  the  Singing 
Mothers  choruses  from  the  several  wards  presented  numbers  appropriate  to  the  occas- 
ion, and  then  the  combined  choruses  presented  part  of  the  program,  including  the 
beautiful  "Slumber  Song."  The  musical  part  of  the  entertainment  was  interspersed 
with  the  reading  of  original  poems  by  Fannie  Brunt,  a  dramatization  "Unto  Half  My 
Kingdom,"  written  by  Nadine  Miskin  and  conducted  by  Hester  Davenport,  and  other 
features  which  added  variety  to  a  lovely  evening. 
Ruby  F.  Olson  is  president  of  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Photograph  submitted  by  Edna  S.  Walker 
ALPINE   STAKE    (UTAH),   AMERICAN   FORK   THIRD   WARD 
"MUSIC  TEAM" 
Seated  at  the  left,  Annie  Slack  Shipley;  at  the  right:  LaDosia  Mayberry  WagstaflF. 
Edna  S.  Walker,  President,  Alpine  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports  the  lovely  co- 
operation and  service  of  these  two  sisters  over  a  period  of  twenty-seven  years:  "These 
sisters  have  worked  as  a  team  in  the  music  department  of  the  American  Fork  Third 
Ward  for  twenty-seven  years.  In  1928  they  were  called  to  be  the  organist  and  chorister, 
and  have  worked  together  in  this  capacity  continuously  since  that  time.  During  this 
period  they  have  served  under  seven  ward  presidents.  They  have  conducted  innumer- 
able Singing  Mothers  choruses.  During  these  years  they  have  been  absent  from  meet- 
ings very  few  times.  When  their  children  were  small,  they  took  them  to  meetings. 
Sister  Shipley  is  mother  of  two  and  grandmother  of  five.  Sister  Wagstaff  is  mother  of 
four,  grandmother  of  seven,  and  great-grandmother  of  one.  Sister  Shipley  has  been  a 
Relief  Society  organist  thirty-three  years,  and  Sister  Wagstaff  has  served  in  her  capacity 
for  thirty  years.  During  these  additional  years,  the  two  women  did  not  work  together 
as  a  team." 
Since  Sister  Walker  submitted  the  above  report,  she  has  had  the  sad  duty  of  re- 
porting the  death  of  Sister  Shipley  on  August  12,  1955,  thus  bringing  to  an  end  the 
earthly  association  of  these  two  dear  sisters  in  Relief  Society  service.