[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Fiction | Title: To Meet WilUams]
[To Meet the Bride Helen S. WilUams]
Qjrora    I  Lear  and  cfc 
Because  of  a  new  baby  in  the  house, 
we  were  having  a  particularly  trying  time 
with  our  two-year-old,  when  the  July  issue 
of  the  Magazine  came,  with  Christie  Lund 
Coles'  article  "Kneel  to  Your  Child."  I 
do  sincerely  thank  you  .  .  .  and  her  .  .  . 
for  this  marvelous  article.  It  certainly  aided 
me  in  developing  more  patience  and  a 
positive  attitude  toward  the  situation.  As 
she  concluded  her  article,  we  do  thank 
God  for  the  goodness  and  sweetness  that 
have  been  entrusted  to  our  care, 
— LaVerle  M.  Nielsen 
Eureka,  California 
I  send  these  few  lines  to  thank  you  all 
so  much  for  your  wonderful  Magazine. 
I  have  had  it  sent  through  my  niece  Miss 
Kathleen  Davies  of  Fillmore,  Utah.  I 
enjoy  the  Magazine,  and  so  do  my  grand- 
children. We  are  members  of  the  Bap- 
tist Church  ....  May  God  bless  the 
readers  of  your  Magazine  and  all  who  help 
with  vour  Church. 
— May  E.  Boddy 
Hoole,  Chester,  England 
Six  of  the  Christmas  presents  I  gave 
were  subscriptions  to  The  Reliet  Society 
Magazine,  going  to  two  daughters-in-law, 
one  daughter,  and  three  sisters,  who  have 
written  letters  of  gratitude  for  ''a  Christ- 
mas present  lasting  all  through  the  year." 
Thanks  for  a  year's  companionship  with 
inspiring  material.  The  Magazine  not 
only  blessed  our  home,  but  I  pass  it  on 
to  shut-ins  who  are  very  grateful. 
— Mrs.  Etta  Robbins 
Benicia,  California 
I  have  been  taking  The  ReUef  Society 
Magazine  for  about  a  year  and  a  half  and 
do  enjoy  it  very  much.  I  can't  get  to 
Relief  Society  meetings,  as  I  have  to 
work,  but  I  can  keep  up  with  the  lessons 
and  feel  more  a  part  of  it  through  the 
Magazine. 
— Margaret  Kearney 
Idaho  Falls,  Idaho 
ar 
Congratulations  to  The  Rehef  Society 
Magazine  on  its  September  issue.  It  has 
outdone  its  usually  excellent  self.  Con- 
gratulations to  Alberta  H.  Christensen  al- 
so on  her  splendid  poems.  I  was  pleased 
to  read  them  and  they  made  me  feel  proud 
that  we  have  such  fine  craftsmen  among 
our  Utah  poets.  I  am  simply  devouring  the 
Magazine's  contents. 
— Gene  Romolo 
Provo,  Utah 
I  cannot  refrain  from  expressing  my  de- 
light in  the  beautiful  poem  ''Would  You 
Find  Peace?"  by  Gene  Romolo  in  the 
August  Magazine.  All  her  poetry  is  inspir- 
ing and  touching.  Thank  you  for  a  love- 
ly Magazine.  I  have  taken  it  since  1926, 
soon  after  I  arrived  in  Zion,  and  have 
thoroughly  enjoyed  every  copy. 
— Helen  McQuarrie 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
How  much  I  enjoyed  the  story  ''Forever 
Orchid"  by  Frances  C.  Yost  (May  1955)! 
One  dozen  red  roses  were  delivered  to  me 
the  morning  of  Mother's  Day  from  my 
son  who  is  right  here  at  home.  I  always 
read  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  from 
cover  to  cover.  It  never  fails  to  put  my 
spirit  in  tune  to  read  the  truly  inspired 
messages  from  those  brothers  and  sisters 
who  are  holding  positions  of  honor  in  our 
great  Church. 
— Ruth  Louise  Olson 
Santa  Rosa,  California 
Each  month  I  enjoy  so  much  the 
articles,  features,  stories,  and  poetry  in  the 
Magazine.  Especially  do  I  enjoy  the  les- 
son department.  I  am  social  science  class 
leader  in  the  West  Jordan  Second  Ward 
Relief  Society,  and,  using  the  material 
outlined  in  the  Magazine  as  a  basic  guide, 
it  is  no  difficult  matter  to  present  a  les- 
son of  interest  to  every  Relief  Society 
member. 
— Joanne  B.  Rose 
West  Jordan,  Utah 
The  Cover:   "Yoscmite  Valley,  California  in  Winter," 
Photograph  by  Josef  Muench 
Frontispiece  Photograph:   "The  Grand  Tetons,  Wyoming,' 
Photograph  by  Willard  Luce 
Cover  Design  by  Evan  Jensen 
Page  714