[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
720 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1955 
Their  labors  in  Nauvoo  were 
characterized  not  only  by  service  for 
the  temple,  but  also  by  care  of  the 
poor.  The  members  brought  to  the 
Society  provisions,  clothing,  thread, 
yarn,  household  commodities,  even 
treasured  pieces  of  jewelry  to  help 
provide  for  those  less  fortunate  than 
themselves. 
But  their  days  in  the  beautiful  city 
of  Nauvoo  soon  came  to  an  end,  and 
life  in  a  western  wilderness  became 
their  lot.  But  regardless  of  circum- 
stances, the  spirit  of "  benevolence, 
solicitude  for  the  well-being  of  one 
another,  unselfish  sharing,  and  ef- 
fective service  in  forwarding  the 
work  of  the  Lord  lived  on  in  the 
hearts  and  actions  of  the  westward 
women  as  they  built  their  homes 
and  established  their  Relief  So- 
cieties. 
It  is  a  stimulating  and  moving  ex- 
perience to  read  the  minutes  of 
some  of  the  early-day  Relief  So- 
cieties in  the  West.  They  reveal 
full  well  that  the  ideals  and  the  spirit 
of  service  and  devotion  to  the 
Church  exemplified  in  the  sisters  in 
Nauvoo  remained  strong  in  the 
women  transplanted  to  a  desert  land. 
To  illustrate,  let  me  read  from 
minutes  of  the  St.  George  Relief 
Society,  April  20,  1869: 
President  Erastus  Snow  asked  for  25 
yards  of  carpet  for  a  prayer  circle  room 
for  the  brethren,  [visiting]  teachers  went 
out  and  got  enough  rags  to  make  50  yards. 
There  were  present  at  our  meeting  90 
women,  sewing  the  rags  in  answer  to 
President  Snow's  call.  It  was  one  of  the 
most  pleasant  meetings  ever  held,  though 
the  sisters  worked  until  their  bodies  were 
tired  and  their  fingers  ached  from  winding 
the  balls,  a  happier  group  would  be  hard 
to  find. 
designed  for  the  early  days  alone, 
nor  was  it  designed  only  for  women 
of  eras  that  are  past.  It  calls  to 
women  today  who  wish  to  develop 
themselves,  to  serve  their  fellows, 
and  forward  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
It  is  heartwarming  to  contemplate 
the  faithfulness  and  devotion  of  Re- 
lief Society  women  today  the  world 
over,  and  to  review  the  records  of 
their  accomplishments.  The  sisters 
are  devotedly  contributing  toward 
the  erection  of  temples  and  meet- 
inghouses, toward  welfare  projects 
and  other  Church  programs.  They 
are  ministering  to  the  sick  and 
homebound.  (Last  year  more  than 
235,475  ^^^^  visits  were  made.) 
They  are  teaching  one  another  the 
precepts  and  doctrines  of  the 
Church.  (Last  year  approximately 
13,000  women  were  engaged  in 
teaching  the  courses  of  study.  Under 
the  direction  of  Relief  Society,  more 
than  63,949  women  read  the  special 
assignments  from  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon.) The  sisters  are  training  one 
another  to  walk  in  the  paths  of 
righteousness  —  all  to  the  end  that 
they  may  build  for  themselves  and 
for  others  beautiful,  useful,  purpose- 
ful lives,  and  that  they  may  do  wom- 
an's part  in  building  the  kingdom  of 
God. 
The  spirit  with  which  the  work 
is  carried  forward  today  does  not 
differ  from  the  spirit  of  the  past. 
The  increased  number  of  Relief  So- 
ciety members  (now  over  156,000) 
make  their  contribution  to  the  work 
of  the  Church  a  sizeable  one.  Let 
me  read  you  a  typical  statement 
from  a  1954  annual  report  of  a  small 
ward  Relief  Society  with  an  average 
attendance  of  twenty  women. 
Relief  Society,  however,  was  not  I  am  happy  to  give  this  report  of  our

THE  REWARDS  OF  SERVICE  IN  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
721 
Relief  Society.  We  are  fully  organized. 
We  have  had  a  very  good  year  in  all  of 
our  activities  and  meetings. 
On  March  17  we  held  our  birthday 
party  in  the  form  of  a  luncheon  ....  In 
April  we  served  a  dinner  for  the  ward.  In 
May  during  a  Sunday  night  program  we 
presented  the  bishop  with  a  check  for 
$500  for  the  stake  building  fund.  In  July 
we  had  a  social  and  luncheon.  In  August 
we  participated  in  a  stake  dinner  lawn 
party.  On  August  13  and  14  we  held  a 
rummage  sale  ....  On  August  16  we 
gave  the  bishop  a  check  for  $100  to  be 
applied  to  the  ward  building  fund.  This 
makes  a  total  of  $900  given  from  our  So- 
ciety besides  the  $900  earned  by  us  at  the 
stake  dinner  we  served  for  the  stake  build- 
ing fund. 
In  October  we  had  our  opening  social 
with  fifty-two  persons  attending.  On  No- 
vember 7  the  Relief  Society  conference 
was  held. 
Our  class  leaders  are  some  of  the  best, 
and  they  give  wonderful  lessons.  We  have 
very  good  attendance  at  the  sewing  meet- 
ings and  have  had  some  very  good  home- 
making  demonstrations.  We  have  done 
much  compassionate  service,  far  more  in 
comparison  to  other  years.  The  Relief 
Society  sisters  of  our  ward  are  a  congenial 
group  and  we  have  plans  for  a  busy  1955. 
We  hope  and  pray  that  we  will  have  the 
blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father  to  help 
us  all  and  to  work  together  in  forwarding 
the  work  of  the  Lord. 
We  wish  to  thank  the  stake  board  and 
our  bishopric  for  the  help  that  they  have 
given  us. 
There  are  times  when  special  as- 
signments make  heavy  demands  up- 
on the  time  and  energy  of  our  al- 
ready busy  mothers,  but  rarely,  if 
ever,  does  the  work  become  dull  or 
so  tedious  and  uninteresting  as  to 
become  drudgery.  ''Work  becomes 
drudgery  only  so  long  as  what  is 
done  is  done  only  because  of  the  let- 
ter of  the  law  and  without  the  spir- 
it/'   Service  performed  in  the  spirit 
of  conversion  to  and  love  for  the 
Master's  cause  and  in  obedience  to 
eternal  and  righteous  principles 
brings  to  one  a  fullness  of  joy  —  the 
joy  referred  to  by  the  great  prophet 
Nephi  when  he  wrote:  ''Men  are 
that  they  might  have  joy."  Such 
joy  is  not  the  reward  of  superficial, 
spare-time,  begrudgingly  given  per- 
formance; such  joy  is  reserved  for 
those  who  enter  into  the  work  with 
full  purpose  of  heart. 
A  testimony  of  the  worth  of  service 
in  Relief  Society  finds  echo  in 
the  hearts  of  tens  of  thousands  of 
members  and  in  the  hearts  of  their 
husbands  and  children.  Countless 
numbers  of  children  of  Relief  So- 
ciety mothers  have  grown  strong  in 
the  faith  and  performed  valiantly 
themselves  for  the  Church  because 
of  the  example  of  their  mothers.  It 
has  even  proved  to  be  the  road  back 
for  some  children.  Only  a  few  days 
ago  I  met  the  son  of  a  faithful  Re- 
lief Society  sister.  He  was  eminent- 
ly successful  in  his  chosen  profes- 
sion, but  had  gone  afield  in  his  re- 
ligious thinking.  Several  years  ago 
his  mother  was  called  to  teach  the- 
ology in  Relief  Society.  She  felt  in- 
adequate for  such  an  important  as- 
signment, yet  she  wished  to  be  obe- 
dient to  her  Relief  Society  call  and 
to  serve  to  the  best  of  her  ability. 
This  she  did  with  a  high  degree  of 
success,  teaching  the  sisters  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Church  with  clarity  and 
conviction  until  the  time  of  her 
death. 
The  son,  returning  to  her  home 
for  the  funeral,  picked  up  her  Book 
of  Mormon  as  it  lay  on  the  table 
with  its  passages  carefully  marked. 
This  he  has  since  studied,  reading

722  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1955 
the  book  from  cover  to  cover.    The  and  abiding  comfort  and  sustaining 
other  day  when  I  met  him  he  said  influence  as  long  as  Hfe  lasts.     It 
to  me,  'The  Church  must  have  had  makes  of  her  a  woman  who  does 
great  confidence  in  my  mother  to  justly,  who  loves  mercy,  and  who 
call  her  to  teach  the  theological  doc-  walks  humbly  with  the  Lord.  These 
trines.     It  is  evident  that  she  knew  are  rewards  of  the  highest  order, 
and  understood  them.     I  have  read  In   Galations   we    read:    "As   we 
and   re-read   the   passages   she   had  have  therefore  opportunity,  let  us 
marked  in  her  Book  of  Mormon.    It  do  good  to  all  men,  especially  unto 
has  had  a  tremendous  influence  up-  them  who  are  of  the  household  of 
on  me.  In  fact,  I  now  know  that  if  I  faith''  (Gal.  6:10). 
am  to  have  peace  of  mind  I  must  In  Romans  we  read:  *'We  then 
return  to  activity  in  the  Church.''  that  are  strong  ought  to  bear  the  in- 
What    a    precious   reward   for    the  firmities    of    the    weak"    (Romans 
hours  of  study  and  faithful  service  15:1). 
of  that  mother!  Through   the  medium  of  Relief 
To  the  woman  who  serves  in  Re-  Society,  opportunity  is  afforded  Lat- 
lief  Society  there  comes  understand-  ter-day  Saint  women  for  such  serv- 
ing, enlightenment,  and  a  truer  eval-  ice.  Relief  Society  work,  as  the 
nation  of  her  own  problems  and  a  Prophet  declared,  ''is  according  to 
wish  to  solve  them  in  all  righteous-  the  natures  of  women,"  and  is  a 
ness.  sphere  in  which  they  find  satisfac- 
Service  in  Relief  Society  gives  to  tion. 
a  woman  competence  in  the  man-  As  we  share  the  labors  of  Relief 
agement  of  her  home,  and  wisdom  Society,  so  most  certainly  we  will 
in  guiding  and  directing  her  chil-  share  in  the  triumphs  of  this  great 
dren.    It  blesses  her  with  an  under-  Society,  and  so  we  will  share  in  the 
standing  heart  and  develops  within  eternal  blessings  which  the  Lord  will 
her  a  testimony  that  becomes  a  deep  give  to  his  faithful  daughters. 
LJe  Shall  utave  [Peace 
Gertrude  T.  Kovan 
Man  prays  eternally  for  peace,  sublime; 
Then  searches  endlessly  uncharted  skies, 
Or  reaches  into  seas  where  depths  and  time 
Hold  secret  wealth  long  hidden  from  the  eyes. 
Man  seeks  the  armor  of  hope,  forever  bright; 
He  would  find  the  constant  stars  that  glow 
Beyond  the  circumference  of  shadowed  night- 
The  luminous  gleam  the  faithful  know. 
For  peace  lies  only  in  the  humble  heart, 
Surviving  all  the  turmoils  of  the  sphere, 
And  each  one  holds  aloft  his  part 
Of  that  great  beacon,  casting  out  all  fear!