[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 14 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: Thankfulness for the Gospel Heritage Marianne C. Sharp]
In a crowded terminal a whistling of that song so significant EDITORIAL in the Church heritage, "Come, Come, Ye Saints," drew the missionaries together, though unknown to each other previously. A pull and attraction stronger than life gathered them as one. One of the Authorities was sitting in a train station at Chicago. A young man sitting near kept looking at him. Finally he began to whistle softly, "Come, Come Ye Saints." When the Authority looked over toward the boy and smiled, he at once came over and, extending his hand, said, "I thought it was you, but I wasn't sure." Immediately there was a common understanding between them which set them apart from every other of the thousands of persons in the station. Often in the want advertisements in Salt Lake papers, one reads, "L. D. S. Person preferred." 'This insures, to a great degree, that the one responding to the advertisement will enjoy this common heritage, that her ideals and conduct will coincide with the one running the advertisement. Recently a sister said, "You know 745 the one who lives with me is a fine woman, and [ didn't think it would matter that she wasn't a member of the Church, but the other day when I was trying to discuss some matters, I realized that nothing I said meant a thing to her. I don't believe I can keep on using her. We just don't have anything in common. Everyday relationships among young Latter-day Saints are built up and fostered by Church activities. If one desires, a satisfying social life is provided merely through Church affiliations. Our Father in heaven through his Church offers and bestows countless blessings on every member. Many of these blessings are oftimes taken for granted. Not the least of them, for which one should offer special thanksgiving, is the great common heritage of the children of Israel who have accepted the gospel in this great and last dispensation. The gospel heritage gives to life its full meaning and brings joy here and hereafter. —M. C. S.