[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Fiction | Title: Mary | Author: Pattern]
xon; Alice Ottley; Zettella W. Thurman, President, East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society; Muriel Mallory; Lillus Wimmer; Ethel Cottrell; Wilma Carter. Second row, standing, left to right: Genevieve Baraclough; Mary Brain; Elsie Gillis; Annie Jensen; Elizabeth Larsen; Lucille Richins; Zina White; Winifred Johnson; Delsa Hale; Eileen Dunyon. Back row, standing, left to mght: Mary Marlow; LaVern Cooms; Mildred Dahlberg; Ada Worthen; Thelma Dansie; Verna Mellville; Myrtle Rappleye; Marion Margetts; Lois Pugh; Ellen Silver; Mae Bond; Florence McMillan. Sister Thurman, in reporting some events in the history of the East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society, states: "East Mill Creek Stake was organized July 15, 1945. This July was its tenth anniversary. Sara E. Bateman was the first Relief Society president, and the following women have served since that time: Carrie Howick, Munel Mallory, Erma Dixon, Alice Ottley, and the present President Zetella W. Thurman. In the fall of 1951, Alice Ottley was called, with her husband, to the New. Zealand Mission. At the present time there are nine wards in the stake, with 2,166 families. It is said that East Mill Creek is one of the fastest growing stakes in the Church. Only one former stake president of Relief Society is not in the picture — Sister Bateman, who has passed away."' Photograph submitted by Ruby F. Olson NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR OPENING SOCIAL, September 10, 1954 Stake organist Ina Rasmusson is seated at the piano, and stake chorister Margaret Jenkins is standing at the right end of the piano. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 763 During this delightful entertainment, which was held in the evening, the Singing Mothers choruses from the several wards presented numbers appropriate to the occasion, and then the combined choruses presented part of the program, including the beautiful "Slumber Song." 'The musical part of the entertainment was interspersed with the reading of criginal poems by Fannie Brunt, a dramatization "Unto Half My Kingdom," written by Nadine Miskin and conducted by Hester Davenport, and other features which added variety to a lovely evening. Ruby F. Olson is president of North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Edna S. Walker ALPINE STAKE (UTAH), AMERICAN FORK THIRD WARD "MUSIC TEAM" Seated at the left, Annie Slack Shipley; at the right: LaDosia Mayberry Wagstaff. Edna S. Walker, President, Alpine Stake Relief Society, reports the lovely operation and service of these two sisters over a period of twenty-seven years: "These sisters have worked as a team in the music department of the American Fork Third Ward for twenty-seven years.