[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Monson]
[LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Samuel the Lamanite Leland H. Monson]
Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 37—Samuel the Lamanite Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Helaman, chapters 13-16) For Tuesday, February 7, 1956 Objective: To point out that signs of the Savior's birth and crucifixion were given to warn the people of impending destruction and call them to repentance. Samuel Warns the Nephites BOUT six B. C. Samuel, the Lamanite, came into Zarahemla and began to preach to the Nephites. Because he called them to repentance, they cast him out. As he was leaving for his own country, the Lord spoke to him and told him to go back to Zarahemla and to prophesy to the people the things which he put into his heart. The people blocked his entrance into the city, so he climbed the wall:. Stretched forth his hand and cried with a loud voice.... Behold, I, Samuel, a Lamanite, do speak the words of the Lord which he doth put into my heart; and behold he hath put it into my heart to say unto this people that the sword of justice hangeth over this people; and four hundred years pass not away save the sword of justice falleth upon this people (Helaman 13:4-5). Page 766 Continuing with his prophecy, he told of definite destruction unless the people repented and had faith on the Lord Jesus Christ who was coming to redeem all who had faith in him. Because of the wickedness of the people, he told them the Lord would take away his word from among them and his Spirit would also cease to strive with them. He further instructed them that there would be those among their enemies of the fourth generation who would live to see the destruction of the Nephites, except they repented. He warned the people in Zarahemla, in Gideon, and in the land roundabout. Samuel gave to the people a specific example of the trouble that would come to them. Because of the wickedness and abomination of the people, and for their sakes, the LESSON DEPARTMENT Lord would send a curse upon the land, even a curse of slippery treasures. And behold, the time cometh that he curseth your riches, that they become slippery, that ye cannot hold them; and in the days of your poverty ye cannot retain them (Helaman 13:31). He informed them the time would come, unless they repented, that they would weep and howl in sorrow, saying: Behold, we lay a tool here and on the morrow it is gone; and behold, our swords are taken from us in the day we have sought them for battle. Yea, we have hid up our treasures and they have slipped away from us, because of the curse of the land (Helaman 13:34-35). Signs of the Savior's Birth After calling the people to repentance and foretelling their destruction, if they did not cease seeking happiness in iniquity, Samuel gave to the people the signs of the Saviors birth and crucifixion. He said: five years more cometh, and behold, then cometh the Son of God to redeem all those who shall believe on his name. And behold, this will I give unto you for a sign at the time of his coming; for behold, there shall be great lights in heaven, insomuch that in the night before he cometh there shall be no darkness, insomuch that it shall appear unto man as if it was day. 'Therefore, there shall be one day and a night and a day, as if it were one day and there were no night; and this shall be unto you for a sign; for ye shall know of the rising of the sun and also of its setting; therefore they shall know of a surety that there shall be two days and a night; nevertheless the night shall not be darkened; and it shall be the night before he is born. And behold, there shall a new star arise, such an one as ye never have beheld; and this also shall be a sign unto you. And 767 behold this is not all, there shall be many signs and wonders in heaven (Helaman 14:2-6). Samuel made it clear to the people that he gave these signs of the Savior's coming for the purpose of persuading them to believe in Christ. Believing in him would cause them to repent and to receive a remission of their sins. Signs of the Savior's Crucifixion Having completed his enumeration and discussion of the signs which should precede the birth of the Savior in Bethlehem of Judea, Samuel gave them the signs of the crucifixion of Christ. Jesus Christ would be crucified, he told them, to bring to pass the resurrection from the dead, making it possible for all men to come back into the presence of God, redeeming them from their first death, which was spiritual, or banishment from the presence of God. The crucifixion, Samuel testified, would also make it possible for men to repent of their individual sins and receive a forgiveness of them. 'Those who would not repent would suffer a second spiritual death, banishment from God and from things which pertain to righteousness. Concerning the signs of the Savior's crucifixion, he said:. In that day that he shall suffer death the sun shall be darkened and refuse to give his light unto you; and also the moon and the stars; and there shall be no light upon the face of this land, even from the time that he shall suffer death, for the space of three days, to the time that he shall rise again from the dead. Yea, at the time that he shall yield up the ghost there shall be thunderings and lightnings for the space of many hours, and the earth shall shake and 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 tremble; and the rocks which are upon the face of this earth, which are both above the earth and beneath, which ye know at this time are solid, or the more part of it is one solid mass, shall be broken up (Helaman 14:20-21). Samuel Declares Free Agency of the People Again Samuel told the people these signs were made known to them that "... There should be no cause for unbelief among the children of men" (Helaman 14:28). Following his announcement of the signs which would precede the birth and follow the crucifixion of the Master, Samuel pleaded with the people to repent saying:... Remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself; for behold, ye are free; ye are permitted to act for yourselves; for behold, God hath given unto you a knowledge and he hath made you free (Helaman 14:30). As one ponders over these great signs of the Savior's birth and crucifixion, he is impressed by the significance of the symbols. God used a symbol of light to indicate the birth of the Savior, and a symbol of darkness and destruction for his crucifixion. 'There is something beautiful, something poetic, about these symbols because they represent so aptly the great events they were designed to explain. Samuel the Lamanite was not finished when he completed his discussion of the signs of the Savior's birth and crucifixion. He continued by foretelling additional troubles which they faced because of their wickedness. Except they repented, he told them, their houses would be left desolate, their women would suffer, for they would attempt to flee and there would be no place of refuge. God chastened his people during periods of wickedness, Samuel said, because he loved them. Lamanites to Be Preserved Samuel paid a tribute to his own people for their faithfulness after conversion, pointing out the fact that they had buried their weapons of war and had worked diligently to keep the commandments of God. Because of their steadfastness in Christ after conversion, the Lamanites would not be "utterly destroyed'"" even though they should dwindle in unbelief. He foretold:... The Lord shall prolong their days, until the time shall come which hath been spoken of by our fathers, and also by the prophet Zenos, and many other prophets, concerning the restoration of our brethren, the Lamanites, again to the knowledge of the truth... And notwithstanding the many afflictions which they shall have, and notwithstanding they shall be driven to and fro upon the face of the earth, and be hunted, and shall be smitten and scattered abroad, having no place for refuge, the Lord shall be merciful unto them. And this is according to the prophecy, that they shall be brought to the true knowledge, which is the knowledge of their Redeemer, and their great and true shepherd, and be numbered among his sheep (Helaman 15:11-13). Nephites Warned to Repent No such promise of perpetuity was given to the Nephites. On the contrary, they were warned that unless they repented from their wicked ways, the Lord would "utterly destroy them." As a result of the predictions and promises of Samuel, many Nephites believed on his words. They sought Nephi, repented, and _ confessed LESSON DEPARTMENT their sins, and went into the waters of baptism. Those who disbelieved the words of Samuel, and they were in the majority, cast stones at him and even shot arrows "... But the Spirit of the Lord was with him, insomuch that they could not hit him with their stones neither with their arrows" (Helaman 16:2). When these people saw that they could not hit him, they started to climb after him, intending to bind and imprison him. Samuel, however:... Did cast himself down from the 769 wall, and did flee out of their lands, yea, even unto his own country, and began to preach and to prophesy among his own people. And behold, he was never heard of more among the Nephites; and thus were the affairs of the people (Helaman 16:7-8), Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. How was Samuel received by the Nephites? 2. What signs concerning the birth and crucifixion of the Savior did Samuel give to the Nephites? 3. What was the attitude of the people towards the message? 4. What was his attitude towards the principle of free agency? (siting Sleacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 37—"... Yea, We Can See That the Lord in His Great Infinite Goodness Doth Bless and Prosper Those Who Put Their Trust in Him" (Helaman 12:1). Edith S. Elliott For Tuesday, February 7, 1956 Objective: To show that trust in the Lord brings blessings. FTEN we hear or use the trite phrase: "history repeats itself." Nephi the son of Helaman was aware of this fact, as experienced in the history of the Nephites, when he reminded his people that the Lord would prosper them when they put their trust in him. He reviewed for them how blessed they were in their fields, flocks, and herds and how they had become wealthy in " gold, and in silver, and in all manner of precious things of every kind and art; sparing their lives, and delivering them out of the hands of their enemies..." (Helaman 12:2). Then Nephi recalled to them that during this period of prosperity the people had hardened their hearts and forgotten the Lord who, in turn, had to chasten them to repentance. Other examples in history showing the reward for trusting in the Lord are the staying of the waves when the children of Israel crossed through the Red Sea, and the crumbling of. The walls of Jericho, when the city was circled seven times as bidden by their Heavenly Father. Crossing the plains in our latter day is also an example of the saints trusting in God wherein he blessed and prospered them. Complete trust in our Heavenly Father brings rewards beyond our fondest hopes. He tells us in Matthew 25:21 "... Thou hast been 770 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things. " He has always blessed his children when they have proved themselves faithful. Everything he asks us to do is for our own good. He is anxious for us to follow his teachings with faith and trust. His words are both direct and simple. We don't need to waste time with trial and error, but can go quickly to our destination through trusting obedience in his word and _ being obedient to his commandments. Our Heavenly Father is so anxious for us and appreciative of our every effort. Note his promise found in 3 Nephi 9:14: Yea, verily I say unto you, if ye will come unto me ye shall have eternal life. Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive; and blessed are those who come unto me.

Vork ITleeting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Meat Selection and Preparation Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, February 14, 1956 F all the basic foods, shoppers usually know least about meat. Yet in a recent survey made by the United States Department of Agriculture of family food consumption in sixty-eight urban communities, twenty-four cents out of every food dollar was spent for meat. Ignorance is not bliss when it concerns neatly twenty-five per cent of the food budget. Study and experience are necessary before one can be a successful meat shopper. Customers often complain about the high prices which they helped to push up. That is just what we do whenever we continue to demand the comparatively small per cent of choice cuts and ignore the others. In beef, the cuts most people know best are steaks and rib roasts. 'They come from about twenty-six per cent of the weight of a side of beef, yet they often sell for as much as the other seventy-four per cent. The Government demands that all meat be inspected and stamped. A high percentage of it is also graded. Government grades are: First grade, U. S. Prime; Second grade, U. S. Choice; Third grade, U. S. Good; Fourth grade, U. S. Commercial; United States Choice and U. S. Good are the highest grades usually found in retail markets, since beef from only about one per cent of all cattle is prime. 'The round, purplish blue stamp that appears on meat is not an indication of grade. It means merely that the © meat was Government inspected and that it came from a healthy animal. Many shoppers buy more costly cuts of meat than are required for LESSON DEPARTMENT the cooking method used. Roast lamb need not always be leg of lamb. Shoulder of lamb makes a good roast and is more economical. Even breast of lamb, one of the least expensive lamb cuts can be roasted successfully. Tender and less tender cuts are about equal in food value, and may be equally palatable, if each is prepared in a way that will bring out its best qualities. The basic rule of meat cookery is: always cook meat at low heat. Literally, pounds of meat are lost by cooking it at temperatures that are too high. Low temperatures set the muscle proteins without toughening them. A low to moderate temperature for the entire cooking period of a roast results in less shrinkage and better flavor, and the meat cooks more uniformly throughout. Low temperature cooking has the added advantage of saving fuel, even though the time is longer. Recommended temperature for beef and veal roasts is 300°, for pork it is ° 350°. Broiling Even for broiling steaks, a lower temperature than was formerly recommended is now used. A _ temperature of 350°F at the top of the meat is recommended. Preheat the broiler and place the meat so that the top is about three inches below the source of heat. Turn the meat only once. Broiled meat is transferred to a hot platter and salted when done. Roasting Open-pan roasting is favored above covered roasting. Evaporation of water is greater in the open 771 pan, but nutrients and flavor substances are retained better. As water evaporates, mineral extractives are deposited on the surface of the roast. 'This fact accounts for the high flavor of the outer brown layer. Basting is unnecessary, because the meat does not become dry, if roasted at a low temperature. If meats are placed in the roasting pan with the fat layer on top, the fat, as it melts, flows down over the surface of the lean. If the color is not as deep a brown as you like, the temperature may be raised slightly the last thirty minutes without harm. Cook lamb and pork to the welldone stage regardless of the cooking method used. When roasting leg of lamb, do not remove the thin outer covering, since the meat cooks in less time and holds it shape better when it is left on. Always remove the outer-covering from steaks and chops. Serve lamb either hot or cold, never just warm. Since salt penetrates into roasts only one-half inch, the wisdom of salting before cooking is questionable. Braising Many of the less tender cuts of meat demand a method of cooking known as braising, to make them tender and delicious. Braising is slow cooking in moist heat in a covered skillet. 'The moist heat softens the connective tissue to make the meat juicy and tender. The meat is first browned in its own or added fat, then it is placed on a rack and liquid is added to form steam. Add just enough liquid to cover the bottom of the pan. 'The meat is then cooked very slowly in 772 moist heat until thoroughly tender. Add more liquid later, if necessary, to prevent it from burning. Keep the heat low enough so that the liquid does not boil. This slow cooking may be done either on top of the stove or in the oven, whichever best suits the rest of the meal. If you plan to heat the oven for other foods, it would be more convenient and fuel saving to braise the meat in the oven. In either instance, keep the pan tightly covered. Some cuts are braised to bring out their flavor and preserve their tenderness. Veal is such a meat. Certain pork cuts are best braised because higher heat dries the meat before it can be thoroughly cooked. Dipping the meat in flour before RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 cooking helps to give it a deeper brown. If vegetables are added to either stew or pot roast, do so when the meat is practically done so they will be just tender, not mushy, when served. Panfrying Panfry meat in a heavy frying pan. 'The meat will cook more uniformly if a heavy pan is used. Cook at a moderate temperature until done, turning occasionally. Salt meat after it is browned. Activity for Class Leader Help the sisters to know the different cuts of meat. Meat charts are easily obtainable. Note the supplementary material to this lesson in the article "Meat for Thrifty Meals," by Rhea H. Gardner, on page 755 of this issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Of iterature—The Literature of England Lesson 53—Rudyard Kipling, the Man Who Was (1865-1936) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, 11, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 951-959) For Tuesday, February 21, 1956 Objective: To relate Kipling's prose to his life pattern. WHEN Kipling died in January 1936, his death was kept from King George V, himself so near death that he followed Kipling shortly thereafter. It was entirely fitting that these two men's lives, double symbols of the glory that was England, should end almost together, for each symbolized a segment of England's past greatness which complemented the other. Both men had been born in the same year, 1865, yet, in 1910, when George's reign of more than a quarter-century began, Kipling was already being referred to as a writer prominent in England's past. And in 1910 so he was, and had been for almost a decade. Thus Kipling survived himself by more than thirty-five—some would say forty-five years. Feeling himself "a stranger of an unloved race," he had dodged interviews for decades, and almost never permitted himself or his wife to be photographed. His LESSON DEPARTMENT death at age seventy caught for a moment the attention of two generations who had grown up since he was at his greatest, generations whom he did not love, generations who had built England into a pattern by which he was not comforted. Kipling Triumphant Kipling had been the fair-haired trumpeter for the world-circling British Empire, and his shiny brass trumpet blared forth the deeppitched, jingling rhythms which gave to the wealthy, powerful, and ageressive England of the nineties her voice, yes, her very identity. "There was Rudyard Kipling, with' the gorgeous East and the British Empire rattling like loose change in his trouser pockets." In 1907 Kipling was the first E: inglishman to receive the Nobel Prize for literature. Surely he deserved it, just as he eminently deserved to be appointed Poet Laureate (though why he never was we can only conjecture). 'The Nobel Prize award was given to a man whose writings— short stories and poetry—share so many values and techniques as to be inseparable. To discuss one without the other is but to blur even more darkly whatever sense of unity exists in a man whose personal life, at best, was one of mystery and withdrawal, and who, in his writings, somehow kept his essential self separate and concealed apart from his subject. Particularly is this true in his prose. Kipling's Style To call Kipling journalistic is no term of dispraise; it is merely to point out that his mind and his prose style were of a certain stamp: 773 terse, clean-cut, tight-knit, and loaded with a vast richness of observational detail. The writer Kipling was ever the careful craftsman working with words, the most slippery and difficult of tools. But few have cared more for the exact word than he, and probably no one had as much influence in shaping the clean, clipped style of writing of the twentieth century newspaper and news magazine. After all, his style was consciously envied and aped and parodied for more than a decade. This dominating influence on western-world journalism might well be his most substantial contribution, difficult though it might be to pin down and identify. Kipling's Philosophy As our last lesson stated, Kipling was a talented, industrious, middleclass journalist who redefined the term, "By Jingo" ["Jingoism'— blind, unreasoning patriotism with an element of agression against foreign countries], who loved above all else British authority and British soil, and who spent almost the last half of his life running away from himself in a fruitless attempt to find the meaning behind an existence which increasingly he found to be cruel, painful, and bitter. The first phase of his life might well be represented by a statement he made when he was so far past middle age (and hence should have known better) that it becomes almost ridiculous: God has arranged that a cleancut youth of the British middle classes shall, in the matter of backbone, brains, and bowels, surpass all other youths. Yet he clung to his belief des- 774 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 perately while emerging England repudiated it. The second phase of his life might be summed up in his "Hymn of Breaking Strain," written in 1935 at the age of sixty-nine, the year before his death. Now, at last, we are ready to trace Kipling's over-all pattern. Starting with poems and _ stories which praised courage, strength, discipline, and self-sacrifice in the common man, and which championed the underdog, whether he be white or black or brown, Kipling next praised man for being an efficient administrator (as in_ his poems of the South African campaigns ), and then in such poems as "The Mary Gloster" (text, page 903) and in his novel Captains Courageous, he scorned intelligence and wealth as corruptions, again praised common-sense practicality. In the years following 1900 he wrote less and less of man at all, and more of animal-heroes versus man (as seen in Mowgli, his most famous character). He wrote also whimsy stories for children, dealing with animals and nature, and then with the historical past of his beloved England.