[Vol42 | November 1955 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Fiction | Title: Meat | Author: Gardner]
[Meat for Thrifty Meals Rhea H. Gardner]
if  teat  for  cJnrifty    I  Heals 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
Extension  Service  Home  Management  and  Furnishings  Specialist 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College 
TV/|EAT  is  a  food  it  pays  to  buy  with  thrift  and  cook  with  care.    The  cheaper  grades 
and  cuts  of  meat,  though  fairly  lean  and  not  so  tender,  if  prepared  right,  are  just 
as  full  of  food  value  and  are  as  tasty  as  the  higher-priced  cuts.  The  chief  difference  is 
they  take  more  time  in  cooking  and  more  skill  in  seasoning. 
Beef  or  Veal  Birds 
2  pounds  beef  round  or  veal  4  tablespoons  fat 
steak  cut  Vi  -inch  thick  2  cups  soft  bread  crumbs 
Vi   cup  chopped  celery  and  leaves  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  onion,  chopped  herb  seasoning,  if  desired 
Cut  the  steak  into  strips  2  to  3  inches  wide  and  about  4  inches  long.  Pound  the 
pieces  to  flatten  them  and  help  make  the  meat  tender.  For  the  stuffing  cook  the 
celery  and  onion  in  2  tablespoons  of  the  fat  for  a  few  minutes.  Add  the  bread  crumbs 
and  seasonings,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Put  stuffing  on  each  strip  of  meat,  roll,  and 
skewer  or  tie  in  place.  In  the  remaining  2  tablespoons  of  fat,  brown  the  birds  slowly 
on  all  sides,  then  cover  and  cook  until  tender  in  a  moderate  oven  (35o°F.)  Allow 
about  1  Vz  hours. 
Braised  Stuffed  Shoulder  of  Veal  or  Lamb 
4  to  6  pound  shoulder  of  veal  or  lamb  4  cups  soft  bread  crumbs 
54   pound  suet  or  mild  salt  pork  !4    teaspoon  thyme 
1  small  onion,  chopped  fine  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Remove  the  bones  from  the  shoulder.  Save  them  for  broth.  For  the  stuffing, 
cut  the  suet  or  salt  pork  into  very  small  pieces  and  fry  crisp.  Add  the  onion  and  cook 
for  a  few  minutes,  stir  in  the  bread  crumbs  and  seasonings.  Mix  well  and  continue 
cooking  until  hot. 
Sprinkle  the  inside  of  the  meat  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pile  in  the  stuffing.  Roll 
the  stuffed  shoulder  compactly  then  sew  or  tie  in  place.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and,  if  desired,  with  flour  also.  Place  the  roll  on  a  rack  in  a  roasting  pan,  and  put 
several  pieces  of  suet  or  salt  pork  on  top.  Cover  the  pan;  cook  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  (about  375°F)  until  the  meat  is  browned  and  tender  - —  about  2/2  hours.  Make 
gravy  with  the  pan  drippings.  Remove  the  strings  before  serving. 
Pork  shoulder  may  be  prepared  in  this  same  way.  Because  of  the  greater  amount 
of  fat  in  pork,  roast  it  in  an  uncovered  pan  in  a  325°!".  oven  about  4  hours  for  a 
5-pound  roast. 
Page  755

756  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1955 
Meat  Loaf 
1  Vz   pounds  ground  beef  or  beef  and  veal  4  tablespoons  flour 
/4    pound  pork  sausage,  or  1  Vz  cups  milk 
K    pound  mild  salt  pork,  or  1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs 
3  tablespoons  fat  1  teaspoon  salt 
2  or  3  stalks  celery,  chopped  into  very  dash  of  pepper 
small  pieces  sprig  of  parsley,  cut  fine 
1  small  onion,  minced 
One  or  2  well-beaten  eggs  may  also  be  added,  if  desired.  If  used,  increase  liquid 
to  2  cups  of  milk. 
Cut  the  suet  or  salt  pork  into  small  pieces  and  fry  until  crisp.  Remove  solid 
pieces.  Cook  the  celery,  parsley,  and  onion  in  the  fat  for  a  few  minutes  over  low  heat. 
Stir  in  the  flour  and,  when  well  mixed,  gradually  add  the  milk,  stirring  constantly. 
Cook  until  thickened.  Add  to  the  meat  in  a  mixing  bowl.  Combine  all  the  ingredients 
and  mix  well  with  your  hands.  It  is  important  that  you  work  the  mixture  until  all 
ingredients  are  thoroughly  blended  and  the  mixture  has  somewhat  the  consistency  of 
a  ball  of  bread  dough.  It  will  not  be  sticky  if  the  right  amount  of  moisture  has  been 
used. 
Pack  the  mixture  into  a  lightly  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven, 
375°  to  4oo°F.  Allow  about  lYz  hours  for  a  loaf  made  of  the  above  ingredients. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 
■  »  • 
Vl/tnter  [Pi romtse 
Zera  Wilde  Earl 
Complaining  wind  and  a  gray  November  sky; 
One  lingering  aster  peers  out  through  a  shield 
Of  drifted  leaves,  and  crows  with  raucous  cry 
Circle,  then  light  upon  the  frozen  field. 
Beyond  lurks  winter,  menacing  and  stark. 
And  earth  lies  prostrate  against  the  coming  dark. 
But  now  beside  the  path  I  see  it  lying, 
A  twig,  wind-torn  from  the  poplar  tree  and  tossed, 
Its  tight-furled  buds,  already  green,  denying 
That  gentle  summer  is  forever  lost. 
How  can  I  doubt  when  plainly  here  God  weaves 
This  glad  assurance  of  next  summer's  leaves?