Spafford 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY ot The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. 
Editorial and Business Office:

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out) ===
It will be appreciated and enjoyed by all the family. Order now for about August 28th delivery. $2.60 Surface mail paid anywhere in the world! This packet of visual aids and pictures ls designed to go with the 1968-69 Relief Society spiritual living lessons $1.25 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, seret Boo COM PANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA vga a Utah 84110 or, 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send items circled if 2 Enclosed is a check/money order for the full amount of purchase, including 3!2% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake City, or 5% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. Or, charge my established account. Total $.. Illo gu 0009050 0928008 5005 0D ER ER EES nese see ss oe senna Address... 00.0... Cece ccc eee ees 3.00000 City...............-.. State... SEND FOR DETAILS OF A DESERET BOOK CHARGE ACCOUNT [I (check here) Sept. R. S. 68 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Beneficial Life can help you build your future... Insurance is the stuff that dreams are made of. Beneficial Life mortgages help make home ownership a reality for thousands of eager young families. A Beneficial Life insurance policy makes it possible for a famly to retire its mortBENEFICIAL LIFE gage early, should the need arise. Beneficial Life helps buy and Srsurance Company protect the ownership of that new home. Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah ¥ The Relief Society agazine OCTOBER 1968 HOLD AUTUMN There is a pause in October... A sigh as though earth breathes One golden breath of forever Into the gathering sky. The oak turns And there is a magnificent heather Turned sun... And all becomes one Late testimony Of beauty Before death takes what seems like Its one solemn duty... The toll of winter. Above ail the harvested grains And the flash of red in the hills That touch heaven, There is that one last sigh That is seven Times seven springs driven. The magnificent all-consuming pulse For life hard-put-out. The flame Before the smoke Has risen. —Marilyn McMeen Miller The Cover: §§ Brown and Gold in Mill Creek Canyon, Utah Transparency by Claire W. Noali Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: fj Poplars in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: fj Dick Scopes Illustrations: G Mary Scopes 721 C Som ON ear and Ser I cannot express fully the joy and appreciation I received from reading Sister McKay's inspiring words in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I thank Sister Mckay for helping me to find answers for some of my problems, which, otherwise, might have taken years to solve. I read this article often, and it cheers me up when I am blue, and makes me feel that.! Can do better. Y Marian del Vatie, Abbeville, Louisiana I thank you for the inspiration the Magazine gives me. As a recent convert (four years ago), I find the Magazine the most completely feminine literature I have ever read. Sally Cheney, Santa Rosa, California I cannot help but express my appreciation for the Magazine, which gets better every month, in both form and content.! Watch eagerly for the frontispiece photographs depicting scenes from home. We are enjoying this beautiful England, but sometimes we are lonely for Utah. All of the cover pictures are suitable for framing. The Deseret News Press does a magnificent job in reproducing the pictures. The dear sisters here in the Billingham Ward, Sunderland Stake, have the same ideals and goals as Relief Society women everywhere, and association with them has strengthened my testimony. We will be leaving for Wales in a fortnight, and although I regret parting from my sisters here, I know that I will find lovely ones in Croesyceiliog. My husband will find joy and satisfaction in building a chapel for them. We are thankful for the blessings of the gospel, for the gospel has brought us here to the land of our ancestors. R. May M. Foote, Billingham, Teeside, England This is my second year for receiving regularly The Relief Society Magazine. Like so many wives in this day and age, I must work outside the home, and like all of these women who receive the Magazine, and who cannot attend the regular meetings, I feel closer to all the sisters everywhere. After reading the Magazines I pass them on to a very good Methodist friend of mine. She, in turn, uses the copies in her Sunday School, whenever possible, as well as in her church meetings. These lessons are received with pleasure, for there is much to be gained in spite of the difference in religious beliefs.; Ruth E. Sanford, San Francisco, California I am humbly grateful to find my poem ''The Maker of Hills" in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine. To have it illustrated in such a beautiful manner, with a picture of hills, gives me much pleasure. I am happy to be featured on the page with Helen Mrovka, where her fine article ''The Song of the Hills'' appears. Annie C. Esplin, Orderville, Utah How thrilled and proud I was to read in the July 1968 issue of the Magazine (page 558) that one of my mother's poems (''Rain Song,'' January 1962) is going to be reviewed in the cultural refinement lessons. She is the same Bernice Burton Holmes who won second place in the Relief Society Poetry Contest in 1962. Her daughter-in-law Carol Crane Holmes feels especially honored because, as the cultural refinement class leader in the Woodland, California Ward, she will be privileged to be teaching this lesson - when it comes. Trilby Priest Holmes, Brea, California I can hardly believe it! When I read 'Aunt Elly's Mirror," (July 1968, by Mary Alice Moore), it was like a reflection on my own life. I get so lonely, and sometimes the phone won't ring for days. I came from the city, and we now live on-a ranch with vur three busy children. We recently remodeled the old family home with a large picture window, and I have been willed an old picture frame. I have now decided to rejuvenate the frame and make a mirror out of it for our '"'new home.'' Thank goodness far The Relief Society Magazine to keep me busy. Renie Moore Hibbert, Otto, Wyoming 722 The RelIlicf Society Magazine volume 55 October 1968 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 724 ~=For All Eternity If Not for Time Harold B. Lee 728 A Pleasant Journey Pauline J. Jensen 731 Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Virginia S. Harrington 738 Recipe For Family Home Evening Lillian Y. Bradshaw Fiction 749 The Anniversary Kathleen Peace Gregory 761 If Spring Be Late—Chapter 7 Mabel Harmer General Features 722 From Near and Far 743, Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 744 ~—'Editorial—The Inspiration That Guides Us Louise W.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (1 segments, 33,568 chars) ===

Perhaps you, like them, can see the reason for archaeology in Egypt or Babylonia, where civilizations rose and fell thousands of years ago, or in Mexico or South America, where major cultures developed unknown to the world before Columbus. But you may think, of Nauvoo, built only a little more than a century ago, that surely there is enough known from the history books, the county records, the personal letters and diaries, to make all this rather unnecessary. One reason that might occur to you, as it sometimes does to me when I see the letters my *Virginia S. Harrington (Mrs. J. C.) is a native of Washington, D. C. And received her education in the public schools there, at Swarthmore College (B. A.), and the University of Chicago (M. A. In Anthropology). She was employed by the U. S. National Parks Service at Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado, and Colonial National Historicai Park, Virginia, as an archaeologist, and married J. C. Harrington, Archaeologist-inCharge of the excavations at Jamestown, Virginia, in the 1930s. The Harringtons have a daughter and a son, and while they were growing up, Mrs. Harrington abandoned her professional work, but was active in the Girl Scouts, serving as her council president and as a member of the Region Iil and National Program Committees—and in P. T. A., being president of the Richmond Federation of PTAs and on the Board of Managers of the Virginia Congress of Parents and Teachers. Since 1965, when her husband began serving as the archaeologist for Nauvoo Restoration, Inc. Following his retirement from the National Parks Service, she has assisted him in the archaeological research at Nauvoo, directing excavations at the Nauvoo Temple, the Edwin Webb Blacksmith Shop, and, now, the Times and Seasons site. 731 October 1968 husband gets from various historical organizations trying to arrange for some archaeological explorations, is that it gives prestige to historical restorations. It is the thing to do. It makes for status in State and National organizations. But, though I am not entirely joking when I mention this justification,' there is more to it than that. Another reason which has some merit, though it sounds quite superficial, is that it makes a good show. Visitors are impressed and thrilled, and sometimes watch entranced as the wall is exposed or the bits of glass are removed and so carefully placed in the artifact box. Occasionally, they tell you that they have heard and read about this kind of thing, but never supposed they would have an opportunity to see it going on, right here in this country. But, of course, this also is hardly the real answer to our question. The most obvious reason is that archaeology provides information that is not otherwise available in spite of all the records and books and historical research. Several "for instances" come to mind. In 1966, when pre-restoration work started at the Wilford Woodruff house, there were several pieces of information that, it was hoped, would come from the ground; but no one was concerned about his well, for a good, functioning well is quite obvious there. But, in the course of the excavations, another well turned up near the house, large and carefully built of stone, but filled in. Some of you may have seen it. Why someone dug a new 732 Looking down into the well which Wilford Woodruff personally dug at the rear of his Nauvoo residence, and walled with limestone slabs. It had gone dry, was abandoned, and filled in for many years before excavated by the archaeologists. Well, abandoning the old, cannot be said, but there is little question but that this buried one was Wilford Woodruff's original well. In 1967 a small, brick-paved structure, or its remains, was found southwest of the Brigham Young house. Neither Brigham Young nor any of the later land records seemed to have made any direct reference to it. Last summer we flirted with the possibility of its being a summer kitchen, though there is no evidence that Mormons had summer kitchens, which seem to have come in with the later German inhabi- Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? A Bella Foundation of Brigham Young's original cellar, built above ground with double walls and a dead-air insulating space between, as the land was too swampy to permit the excavation of an underground cellar. Late cistern. Tants. Brigham Young did describe a vegetable cellar he built before building his brick house. At first, no one supposed that this fairly substantial and goodsized structure could be anything as insignificant as a vegetable cellar; but after reviewing the archaeological conditions and looking into the nature of some later storage cellars in Utah, the conclusion seems well-based that this, indeed, is what it was. Again, in 1967, it was decided, toward the end of the summer, to take a little time to excavate the Edwin Webb blacksmith shop. Land records and other documentary material seemed fairly clear, that this was a small, thirty foot wide stone building on Parley street, quite precisely locatable. The first excavation trench struck stone footings immediately, and it seemed that the only thing more to do to define the building was to move thirty feet west and dig another trench. But when this was done, no end wall was found, only the continuing front and back walls. Obviously, there had been some misinterpretation, and it would be necessary to follow out the walls tosee what happened. When the west end wall was finally located, it was sixty-two feet from the east one; and the shop, far from being a small blacksmith shop only, turned out to have two rooms, with appurtenances to suggest that part 733 October 1968 was the blacksmith shop and part a wagon shop. Finally, just last month archaeology confirmed something at the temple that had been guessed at but not really known. This concerned the nature of the floor paving in the basement. Though there were some Mormon references to brick paving there, the most widely known description of the temple, after the Mormons left, Buckingham's, mentioned an earth floor, and this information has been used extensively by later writers. Careful analysis of the archaeological and historical records permitted the hypothesis that there had been a brick floor, laid without mortar in a layer of sand, and that the bricks had been salvaged and disposed of before Buckingham made his visit in the summer of 1847. But now we have just uncovered, at the temple site, a section of the original brick paving, about seven feet square, in a diagonal herringbone pattern, neatly laid in a sand base. Thus the discrepancy is resolved and the hypothesis verified, that the basement did have a brick floor. More examples could be cited, and we are on the verge of having a very interesting one at the Jonathan Browning house. But these items, I think, establish clearly that, in spite of the recency of the time and the extent of the historical records, archaeology is necessary to make the data complete, "to tell it like it is," as they say nowadays. But there is another type of information that archaeology can provide, information that comes from the artifacts, as we call the china and glass, the metal 734 and stone, that are almost invariably found in the ground in association with buildings that have been lived in or otherwise occupied. These artifacts not only indicate what was owned and used in times past, but also throw light on the people who possessed them that history may not mention directly. Were they rich or poor, self-made or well-educated, simple or sophisticated? The things they used and left behind often help us to understand this. For example, did they use elegant and lovely chinaware and glass on their tables, or were they content with homemade pottery and utensils? I cannot give you any good examples yet from Nauvoo, for the Mormons lived here only six years, and nodoubt took their best things with them when they left. In Brigham Young's backyard a refuse pit revealed English china in an attractive blue and white pattern. We have now decided that it is fairly unlikely that Brigham Young himself used it, but research has indicated that this is the kind of dishes that he might well have had, because they were made at a time and in the. Area of his missionary trips to England. The iron objects from the Edwin Webb blacksmith shop are still being treated in the laboratory, but they may tell whether tools and hardware that were used here were made on the spot, purchased in St. Louis or Pittsburgh, or even imported from abroad. Artifacts can also throw light on the craftsmanship and concern for their work of the people who left them. In the broken rubble of the fill at the temple site, we find A stage in the reconstruction of an English china transfer plate from fragments unearthed on the Brigham Young lot. Fragments of beautifully carved and sculptured trim, and even the casual visitor, running his fingers over the smooth stone, will comment on the skill of the makers. At the temple, also, I found another interesting sidelight on workmanship, which underlines the fact that much labor on the temple was contributed, and no doubt often by men who could give muscle but not. Skill. Several of the massive eight-feet square foundations for the great interior supporting columns have been excavated. There are two, opposite each other, one of which is of fine squared blocks, neatly set; and the other is of various sizes of rough stone randomly arranged and with crevices between them large enough to run a shovel handle in for a couple of feet. Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Still another sidelight from the temple is related to the brick paving that I described earlier. We know from the archaeological evidence that this was put in quite late in the building of the temple, for the sand bed in which it was laid runs over the stone drain for the font, and contemporary records show that the drain was built after March 1845. Thisis confirmed by another contemporary account, that of William Mendenhall, a_ bricklayer who mentioned in his diary that he was laying brick at the temple as late as April 4th, 1846. This, in a way, is an amazing and poignant bit of information. Brigham Young had long since left Nauvoo for the West. There could have been no certainty in Mendenhall's mind about how long his work would serve its planned purpose in the building it would adorn. And yet the bit of paving that has been found shows careful workmanship, that endured through the vicissitudes of the next nineteen years of fire, tornado, and rock salvaging. Even more, it shows something of the meaning of this building to the men who built it. What I have said so far has, I hope, given some answer to my original question, why archaeology at Nauvoo? But I do not think it is a complete answer, for to justify an activity, it is necessary toshow that it contributes to the over-all goal of the work or the organization. What I have said so far would be equally true, in general, of archaeology at Jamestown, or Independence Hall, or Fort Laramie. What is the goal at Nauvoo, to which, 735 October 1968 hopefully, archaeology is making a meaningful contribution? The goal at Nauvoo, for Nauvoo Restoration and any other group interested in its history, is, I believe, to preserve and interpret the site so that visitors, and people generally, will better understand its importance in American history. Its significance in American history, specifically noted in connection with its recognition as a National Historic Landmark, relates to America's Westward Expansion. To quote: Among the forces which aided in the winning of the great West, the Mormon migration and settlement in the Great Basin stood out as one of the most positive factors in carrying American civilization to the intermountain and Pacific coastal areas... Nauvoo will be commemorated as a point from which this great westward migration commenced. But the problem is to relate this to what is here, and what people already know. At most historic sites the solution is simpler. At Jamestown, Virginia, the average tourist has some vague knowledge of the first settlement, and can see ruins and foundations in the ground; Gettysburg has become known as a great battlefield, and there earthworks and cannon are visible. But Nauvoo is a quiet village, where some travelers are not even aware of the Mississippi River and the background knowledge of visitors is rather special. For many Mormons it is the home of their forefathers and for all Church members the home of their Prophet; for non-Mormons Brigham Young and polygamy make an isolated and perhaps Inappropriate point of contact. 736 So, what has this to do with Westward Expansion? How can a visitor be made aware of the significance of this place, led to appreciate the meaning of Nauvoo in American history? Perhaps one way of approaching this would be to use the standard questions of journalism— who, when, where, what, why. If they are answered during a visit to Nauvoo, a better understanding will, hopefully, be created. Who were the people who lived here? This should not be a catalogue of names, for in most cases the names are irrelevant. They were Americans, whose grandparents knew, and may have fought in, the American Revolution; who themselves had lived through the War of 1812; whose family and friends had faced the perils of the frontier. Independence from the restrictions of the Old World, personal liberty to believe and live their own convictions, were meaningful and realizable ideals. They also were people of European birth, fleeing the upheavals of their homelands, drawn by a new religious faith to a land dedicated since the Pilgrim Fathers to freedom of worship. They were, on the whole, simple people, farmers, carpenters, blacksmiths, storekeepers, for this was not a community of the wealthy, of great landowners, of adventurers. When was it built? Dates are not enough, for few besides historians can recognize the meaning of chronological landmarks beyond high points such as 1492, 1776, and a few similar dates. This was a time when the faces, — — the thoughts, the dreams of Americans were turning to the West. The trickle across the Appalachian Mountains that had begun before the American Revolution had become a flood, and the Lousiana Purchase had doubled the country's area. Soon Texas and Oregon would be considered as inevitable parts of America, and the Mexican War would essentially complete our boundaries. Many citizens of Nauvoo had been born in a Nation bounded on the west by the river on whose shores they now lived, and which they would cross to spend the rest of their lives in what was not yet the United States. Andrew Jackson, the first western President, had just completed his two terms of office; Abraham Lincoln was living in Springfield and building his law practice; in a very few years gold would be discovered in California at Sutter's Mill. The shadow of slavery lay across the land, but the Civil War was two decades in the future. The where and what questions are more easily answered, because the answers lie on and in the ground, in the houses, the shops, the public buildings of Nauvoo. Here these people, in these years, lived their lives, but with a difference, for they were united with each other, and divided from their neighbors by a religious belief that was not just a faith but a way of life. This leads to the last question, the why? Why did they come here, why did they leave Nauvoo? It is not enough to say that they came in 1839 and left in 1846 because they were persecuted and driven. This Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Had happened before in the world, and usually with quite different results. Some religious minorities resisted; some conformed; some went underground. But America has provided another alternative, used by the Puritans in Massachusetts, the Catholics in Maryland, the Quakers in Pennsylvania, the alternative of the land itself— and the people of Nauvoo took advantage of this. They had dedication, they had leadership, and they had a place to go. And so they left, for the valley of the Great Salt Lake. As in the original settlement of this country, the search for religious liberty was added to the search for personal independence, for wealth, for adventure, which impelled others to bring about the peopling of the West. To conclude, then, the answer to the question, Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Is that the things and the facts found in the ground make an important contribution to the knowledge and appreciation of the people, the time, and the events of this place which plays an important part in American history. Archaeology throws light on the who and the when, tells much about the where and what, and dramatizes the why of the men and women of Nauvoo. What the visitor can see with his own eyes, touch with his own fingers, and know with assurance were the actual surroundings and possessions of real people, help him to understand better than written or spoken words how thei* owners played their part in the Westward Expansion of the United States. 737 = Remember the last time you had a tempting hot bowl of cooked oatmeal cereal when the salt was left out? Just as nourishing as if the salt had been added —it nevertheless did not encourage you or the children to ask for seconds. In proportion to the whole—such a little salt was needed. Family Home Evening can be the same way. In proportion to the wonderfully nourishing lessons that have been given to us, the ingredients needed to bring out the savor may be so small as to seem insignificant, and yet the difference is the wanting of second helpings from all —even you! I like to think of the four ingredients being: S—Satisfaction A—Anticipation L—Love T—Time and Tact S Is for Satisfaction To be satisfying, there must be achievement. By allowing every member in the family to participate, you can encourage them to feel that without them the evening wouldn't have been quite so good. It will also increase their talents in all areas, if wisdom is used in the variance of assignment. In participation, the children will commit themselves to that which they teach. But of most importance right now is the savor of contentment it brings to the whole—the contentment of both the children and the parents wanting to take one evening a week to be together. 738 x 4 RECIPI FOR FAMILY HOME EVENING Don't Forget the Salt! Lillian Y. Bradshaw May I list some ways in which we can all have fun by being needed? 1. Choose at least one child each week, preferably two, to help plan the menu. Let them also go with you on shopping day to purchase the food. If they participate in the buying, their interest in the preparation of the meal will double and you, in turn, have helped yourself— number one step in making yourself enthusiastic—having help. Sometimes, when children are young, their ideas for dinner will be questionable—like peanut butter sandwiches. Go along with their ideas just as far as you can. Never discourage an idea com- pletely. Sometimes I've had to weigh values. Remember they, too, will learn if a mistake is made, if it doesn't taste quite as good as they thought it would, or if it was more difficult to prepare than it seemed in the recipe. This is perhaps the moment of greatest frustration, and you will have to use tact to smooth the disappointment. Always have a canned substitute ready in case of emergency. Your helping them solve little problems now will help them to seek your help later on for big problems. Why not try putting them on a budget and add to the challenge? This will help solve many an argument. As a bonus, Mom's cooking will be more appreciated as they learn from experience the thought and work necessary to put a meal on the table. You have gained status in the eyes of your family. 2. Read the scriptures. Always let the child look up his own scripture from the original source. Even the youngest can be helped, though he might not be able to read and when Family Home Evening comes, he can be led to repeat some verses of scripture. Don't always give him the shortest. Challenge him into feeling important. The children, then, will learn how and where to find any scripture, and their books will become familiar friends that are always there when needed most. For Christmas this year, we gave to each of our children, as our most precious gift, a triple combination with his own name in gold imprinted on the cover. 3. Play music. This gives an outlet for all those hours of practicing. Recipe For Family Home Evening 4. Conduct the song. Let the children learn the use of a baton, even though it may be merely conducting with their hands. 5. Make posters. This will help teach the words of a song or emphasize the purpose of the lesson. This will help develop artistic ability and give each one a chance to display techniques he has learned in school. Be sure you have a drawer with supplies of all kinds—scissors, Scotch tape, colored paper, etc. 6. Tell a story. Encourage the children to read a story and then retell it. They will remember the story better and the moral it conveys. It will also help in keeping Family Home Evening time under control. But, most important, when they are thrown into a similar situation or problem with their friends, their chain of thought will cause them to remember the story and contemplate the solution taught therein. You have fortified them with meeting problems on their own, with wisdom. 7. Conduct the game. We try to include one game during the evening, and are always grateful when one is suggested in the Manual that stresses the objective. By using this method, the children remember a lesson for weeks. The one conducting the game always learns most. For, not only does he recognize the purpose of the game, he also learns how to direct people and how to use ingenuity in obtaining the "props" needed. He learns to plan ahead. Knowing the kind of fun to keep teenagers moving and interested will not be much of a problem to him in the future. 739 October 1968 8. Give the prayer. This might seem very simple, but learning when young to be grateful and to express gratitude is the soothing balm that keeps all of us from becoming brittle. A Is for Anticipation Giving a "theme" to the menu will give that "Oh, I just can't wait" feeling to the entire family. It will develop imagination and give a sense of adventure to the four walls which enclose the family from the outside world. Home will not be a place from which they want to escape. They will seek home for the fun that is there. For example, with card tables or a board placed on bricks or blocks of wood close to the floor, a cowboy dinner (homemade stew served in cans) might be served with the added atmosphere of many used pieces of candle giving the light. This should not be the case with every Family Home Evening dinner, but quite often. Thursday night, our Family Home Evening, provides the best meal of the week, whether it is roast pork made special by stuffiing with prunes, or hamburgers with soy sauce served teriyaki style. Whatever is fixed, it is just a little extra special. Give an air of mystery to the special treat which will be served after the program. Do not serve the dessert with the dinner. Keep it until after the family prayer concludes the lesson. It may be a box of animal crackers for each, or cut-out cookies to be decorated by each as he chooses, homemade ice cream, or a cake Suzie made "just special." 740 L Is for Love Love them more than anything else. Even more than a last minute invitation to dinner on that night—Family Home Evening. Or even more than a long-anticipated invitation. This will be entirely up to you in the beginning. It may seem totally unimportant to give up an entire evening when the children are very young and go to bed early. Why stay home from that fascinating evening with good people just to have one hour with the young ones, when they won't know the difference? By trial and error, we have found that if you are planning something else that night, even though you have Family Home Evening as usual, or a little early in order to get away, still you are aware of time passing, baby-sitter to pick up, children to get off to bed. And have you ever noticed how they know you want them to hurry to bed and be settled, and they just do not want to settle? Frustrating, hectic—somehow, it takes away that peaceful contented feeling of "I'm all yours tonight." Years have passed and we have found much contentment in this one night of being with our family, and, even more wonderful, we have found that it keeps our love as husband and wife fresh and sweet. An evening just to be with one another. Making Family Home Evening a habit early in married life gives a simplicity to living that all would now seem to be seeking. For this one night, I find peace is mine. Especially during this last year as the lessons envelop our everyday living, peace is more abundant all week. I can see and feel the difference. My home is truly my temple of peace and love. Now that we have teenagers, there is a common bond of love and loyalty and empathy as they find themselves faced with the same choices we have had to meet. Often there are silent tears (and some not so silent)—it isn't always with joy that they make their own decisions but strength is built within them as these choices are made. T Is for Time Most stakes have set the time for Family Home Evening. That is the best time to use, because all activities in the stake will be planned for other nights. If you still have conflicts, however, sit down with all the family and ask them when, not if, they would like to meet. Invariably, a volley of "I can't come on this night or that night because" will follow! Being positive, with love on your part, will let them know how important it is and a time will be set. Once it ts set, stick to it! This takes stamina, courage, and often downright faith in yourself, but consistency is the keyword to lasting success. Vary the hour when necessary, but rarely (almost never) the day. Here, too, I might mention that for just the one hour when we are all together, the phone is not answered. All who know us know why, and that they canreach us just a little later. If anyone comes to the door, we invite him organizer and_ leader. Recipe For Family Home Evening in to participate or to return later. T Is Also for Tact Years ago when we began to have Family Home Evening, J found all the material, J searched all the books for ideas, J planned the activity, and 7 trained the children with song and music. My husband was busy with business and Church work, and most of the planning was up to me. I thoroughly enjoyed it most of the time, but in my weaker and more tired moments, I felt the need of help. Then came that wonderful, fabulous, blessed day when we heard there would be a manual for Family Home Evening. I, with contentment, and Blair, with anticipation, looked forward to his teaching the lesson each week. With the passing of the first year, we were overwhelmed with gratitude for the love we could feel in our home. Our Family Nights were truly rewarding. Blair and I seemed to be partners in the home more than ever. Then came the second Manual, and, withit, Blair became more involved with scouting and Church and business, and so, little by little, feeling compassion for him being so busy and tired, I slowly began to take over the preparation of the lesson each week, until once again I was About halfway through the year, I began to notice a difference in our family night and in our home. Somehow, though the lessons were good, that warm sparkle was gone. What was the difference in the two years? Something was surely different. Somehow, over 741 October 1968 and over, I seemed to hear from within, the phrase repeated "Put Father at the head of the home." All at once I realized I had, with the kindest intentions, usurped my husband's leadership in the home. How can Father's guiding Family Home Evening have anything to do with his being head of the home? As he conducts the evening, he, in truth, is giving authority to all that is taught. These lessons are teaching the very fiber of all the character of a child's daily living—honesty, patience, gratitude. Now, for example, during the week, you can say, as clothes are left on the floor, 'Son, let's think about our lesson last week. Do you remember Heavenly Father's words as your father taught us about stewardship?" Though the words may not have been from the father directly, his conducting gives the authority as he directs the evening. Now you can see it is the father's authority that is present in the home at all times even though he is away. Discipline problems will begin to melt. Father now is the ideal of honesty, integrity, courage— because he follows Heavenly Father's teachings. Wanting to be "just hke him" will now bind the child closer than ever not only to his earthly father. But also to his Heavenly Father. The circle is brought full round as we all know how a child can compel each of us to be better, simply because he believes we are that way.. Although Blair calls on me often to teach a small part of the lesson, all my techniques and 742 teaching know-how can't compare to the spirit of authority brought by my husband to Family Home Evening. In preparation, we both read the lesson and discuss any point necessary. He jots down names beside assignments in the Manual and tells each of the children and myself what should be done. I am prop manager, encouraging the children to be prepared, making sure supplies are on hand for them to make the posters and prepare the games. There might be the question raised, "But what about the homes where the father is away in military service, on Church or business assignments, or because of death?" Children are quick to know the reasons why "Mother takes over." They will rally around her. They know the reasons why she must be at the head of the home now. But I know the Family Home Evening can be a very real help in disciplining the children if the mother will relate the teachings of the father's ideals in the same manner as if he were presiding. Often parents say I wish, I wish. Bringing those wishes true involves the element of desiring that wish more than anything else, and then with faith, doing. Family Home Evening holds all the promise of gold at the end of the rainbow—the treasure of good children—those you want to be with—those who enjoy your company. Remember, it took time to buy the salt, open the box, measure it, pour it in, and then stir. It will take time and thought to add the salt to Family Home Evening. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Miss Gertrude Ramey of Ashland, Kentucky, has mothered more than three thousand abandoned or delinquent children for twenty-four years. In the former county poorhouse, which she converted into a warm, loving home, her guests remain for from a few days to fifteen years. She serves purely from love, with no financial compensation, but with the deepest gratitude of juvenile court judges. Lee Rice, twenty-one, left Ohio State University, where she was a student, joined Vista (Volunteers in Service to America), and with a Vista colleague spent a year in Chalkyitsik, an Athabascan Indian Village of 100 people ten miles inside the Arctic Circle. They taught, trained, and broadened the horizons of the children in many ways and did a great amount of reading to them. Back at the university, she finds her education much more significant than formerly. Dorothy Dunn, a specialist in anthropology and in art also, is author of a valuable book, American Indian Painting of the Southwest and Plains Area (University of New Mexico Press, Albuquerque, $25.00). With 157 illustrations, the text covers from prehistoric times to the present, including petroglyphs, hide paintings and the works of truly great artists. The Pueblo Indian, she says '"'has perhaps advanced to a nobility of abstract thought attained by only the great minds given to religious contemplation." Dr. Ruth Clark, a former Utahn, with a Ph. D. From the University of Southern California in speech pathology and clinical psychology, was a speech correctionist in Salt Lake City for eight years, then was director of the speech clinic at Denver University for twenty-three years, and is now on a world-wide speaking tour. With much speech therapy, such as learning to speak with alternate muscles after the voice box has been removed, Dr. Clark finds one must alter one's self image (from one of depression to one of faith, for example) before the cure can be wrought. Her psychology is a most useful tool in these cases. Dee Breger of New York, a twenty-five-year-old scientist, specializing in chemical analysis of water, and geophysicist colleague from Australia, Margaret Kay, are included in the otherwise male crew of the Eltanin in a scientific expedition into Antarctica, for the National Science Foundation. Mayla Ann Mitchell, seventeen, Altamont, Utah, high school senior, was among twelve national officers chosen at the convention at Miami Beach, Florida, of the Future Homemakers of America. She will be national reporter during 1968-69. The national membership numbers more than 601,000. Margaret Mead of Goleta, California, and her copilot Billie Herrin, flew 2500 miles in a Bellanca single-engine airplane to win the prize in the twenty-second annual Powder Puff Derby cross country air race. Their average speed was 176.53 miles per hour. 743