[Vol32 | June 1945 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Seymour Dilworth Allred]

Seymour Dilworth Young Pearl O. Allied
THE SEYMOUR DILWORTH YOUNG FAMILY
Seated from left to right: Lenore, Gladys Pratt Young, Elder Seymour Dilworth Young. A son, Dilworth Randolph, was killed in action in Belgium, October 25, 1944 SEYMOUR DILWORTH YOUNG comes to his new calling trained and grounded in missionary work by the very man whose place he has been appointed to fill, for he served as secretary to Elder Samuel O. Bennion in the Central States Mission for three years. When S. Dilworth Young-'Dil" to his many friends became a member of the Seventy on April 6, 1945, he must have sensed, above the sound of congratulatory speeches, a wordless protest from his own home town. Page 330
For while adults said sagely, "He's the man for the position," scores of Ogden boys looked at each other in honest bewilderment and said, "How can we do without him?"
They began remembering things.
Long summer hikes to Monte Cris-to. The taste of spring water in dusty throats.
Night and stars and the comfort of a sleeping bag. The smell of wood smoke in the early morning. An evening campfire, and Dil Young leading them on in happy song, or weaving quiet magic for them out of old legends. To these boys their scout executive has always been something of a hero. He has managed to endow what might have been routine scouting with a sense of high adventure.
SEYMOUR DILWORTH YOUNG 331 and to give meaning and excitement to the commonplace. If he has seemed at times, along the trail, a kind of glorified Kit Carson, the boys know, too, that he has in him more than a dash of Thoreau.
There is a reflective, a poetic side, to Dil Young which has helped the most impatient and reckless among his charges to think, as well as do. It has taught them to look for beauty in unlikely places and to build qualities of greatness into their hearts and minds. Dil s friends need not ask what activities have brought him greatest satisfaction during the past twenty-two years.
They have seen him at work sixteen hours a day, more often than not, rugged and bronzed in the summer as he shuttles between Camp Kiesel and Camp Browning, occupied endlessly in the winter with all the intricate problems of planning and organization his position demands.
They will tell you he has a great power for indignation against the mean and the shoddy, and an uncompromising hatred of a lie. But he has, too, the gift of laughter and a quick sympathy. It seems safe to predict that the new work he is just beginning will be quickened by the zest for life which is so characteristic of him, that whatever he does will take buoyancy from his own spirit, and strength from his unquenchable youth.