[Vol32 | June 1945 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Daughters and Heirs]
conditions as well as unsafe practices in her own home.
Strive to live safely at home by being prepared: ﬁrst, to recognize or
anticipate a hazard; second, to repair or eliminate the danger; third, to
cultivate and form safe habits; and fourth, to keep a good ﬁrst-aid kit close
at hand.
Daughters and Heirs
Grace S. Cozzens
CHRISTIE GLENN DAVIS sat at the head of the table, hostess to her three
widowed sisters-in-law, all self-respecting widows, not a grass among
them.
The mirror, opposite Christie, reﬂected a slender, reddish-haired woman in
a smoke-gray dress that matched her wistful eyes. For quite some time she
had been planning this little dinner for just the four of them, in her
apartment of carved woods and wrought iron. She felt little shooting pains
of fear. Not that the meal would fail to please—. No, she hadn't forgotten
that Ella was especially fond of baked ham, that Olive liked broiled squab,
and that Amanda's favorite dessert was lemon pie. The meal was planned to
please. To open the way. And she must watch for the right opening and
take it when it came.
She helped Ella to a serving of ham—Ella, that buxom girl of nineteen who
had married Daniel twenty years ago. Dan, handsome, vital, had led Ella a
dance, until Dad Glenn deeded him, his eldest son, a third of his perfectly
cultivated ranch, and Dan had settled down to farming and fathering a
family.
Christie noticed Ella had grown older by eight or ten inches around the
mid-section, though she still had the serene face of a madonna, with her
soft gray eyes, and brown hair parted in the middle and knotted at the back
of her neck. But her meek look belied her brisk, chuckle-ﬁlled speech.
Ella owned that part of the farm next to the river. The old Bear River on
which Christie had rowed, in which she had waded, by which she had
picnicked when a child, and on whose sandbars she had lain full-length
beside its warm, swashy waters—the old river with its never-ending theme
