[Vol32 | June 1945 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Sand-Pile Norton]

Sand-Pile Advantages Alice Whitson Norton MRS. BARKER, standing at the kitchen door overlooking her neighbor's back yard, frowned when she saw a small truck back up and dump a load of sand in Betty Jane's old sand pit. She could think of ever so many other things that would be far more delightful for her own little child than a sand pile. All the morning as she went about her household tasks, she kept thinking about the big load of sand in her neighbor's back yard, and finally, when Mrs. Draper came running in to borrow a cup of sugar, she turned upon her in surprise. "I?ve been wondering all the morning," she said frankly, "just why you had all that sand piled in the back yard." "There's only one excuse for a sand pile," laughed Mrs. Draper. "The children in the neighborhood like it." "To me, that's just the trouble. It's like a bread crumb dropped near an ant hill." "You mean it brings all the children running to it?" asked Mrs. Draper. "Exactly," returned Mrs. Barker. "And that's where the rub comes in." "That's altogether in the way you view it." "What do you mean?" Mrs. Barker asked thoughtfully. "I mean," Mrs. Draper answered, "that a sand pile furnishes not only healthy amusement, but encourages industry and unselfishness. Now take my child, for instance. Page 370
Betty Jane has practically everything she wants, hence the tendency to develop selfishness could easily be hers. So I fill the sand box with sand, then to that I add blocks of various sizes, nails, small hammers, trowels and small shovels, and a few pieces of screening and tin, and instruct Betty Jane to divide these things among her playmates when they come to play, and to respect the corners given them. In this way she learns to make use of a few things and the joy of sharing, besides. Many a successful builder, architect, and engineer has found his talent in a sand pile." After this little lecture, Mrs. Draper reached for the cup of sugar and turned to go home. "I forgot to tell you," she called back over her shoulder, "I needed this sugar to sweeten some cookies I'm stirring up for the children." Mrs. Barker glanced out at the sand pile where busiest among the young engineering group was her own young son, industriously cutting a channel diagonally across the plot allotted him. "Funny," she mused, "how some people can see so much in a sand pile while others see nothing." And then she lifted her hand and tapped lightly on the windowpane, a signal the two neighbors used in calling to each other. Mrs. SAND-PILE ADVANTAGES 371