Instantly Mrs. Draper's bright face was peeping through the glass. "I'm making lemonade," Barker called pleasantly, "to go with her neighbor had caught a glimpse those cookies?sort of a celebration of the vision she had, went back to in honor of the sand pile." the job of cookie-making with a And Mrs. Draper, feeling at last happy smile on her face. The 115th Annual General Conference (Continued from page 329) or intellectual matters, but we do have the invincible truth.
Civilization is not wealth or numbers. It is the appreciation of human brotherhood and the.
Ceaseless pursuit of real justice. War is the outward sign of inner spiritual decay.
Give tireless watch-care to our boys.
When they are around, they may be a "pain in the neck," but when they are gone, they are a pain in the heart.
Nothing has strengthened my faith more than seeing the gospel in action in the lives of our men in the service.
Chastity strengthens man. It is the source of peace and happiness in the home. I like to think of life as beginning before mortality and enduring beyond death. Don't substitute money for welfare assignments.
Hungry saints in Europe can't eat money earmarked sugar or beef.
They need real sugar, beef, cheese, flour, and butter. I could not believe in a God who would be so unjust as to punish those who die without knowledge of his teachings. We must gain light and truth to go on toward Godhood.
Those who oppose profitable evil or popular fallacy are always misunderstood. I know that Christ founded his Church in this day through his prophet. If we come to the Lord with contrite hearts and humble spirits, we cannot fail. The Church of Christ is great in purpose, in leadership, and in historical background.
Probably no section hand in the United States but thinks he could run the railroad better than its president.
Some inexperienced people, too, think they could guide the Church.
While not accountable for things we cannot know, we are held for ignorance which but for sloth might have been dispelled.. Oh, that people had a fraction of the faith in the prophets that they have in the doctors.
Whoever receives or rejects the living servants of the Lord receives or rejects the Lord. It is in adversity and sorrow the spirit grows strongest. The gospel teaches me that I am a son of God and a brother of Jesus Christ and therefore of most noble ancestry. And For Eternity {Continued horn page 343) bit of my mind. I daresay he puts more than half the work on you because you're young and willing. Don't you let him do it, Delsa. You stick up for your rights." She went slowly out of the room, leaving the door ajar, and Delsa thought. It doesn't matter. I can't sleep anyway. All I can do is lie here and think of Hugh and of what I can never have." She turned her head on the pillow and the tears came softly and silently from under her closed lids and drenched the white case. And Delsa didn't know when sleep came and dried her tears and stopped the endless, futile questioning of her heart. (To he continued)  We'll Live Those Days Again (Continued from page 337) as they were held and just where they were held, in 1847.
Nearby residents in all sections will be invited to participate. Then, too, there will be the arrival, at the mouth of Emigration canyon. Salt Lake City, of this momentous caravan, on the exact day ?100 years later ?when the original pioneers arrived.
There will be other events, too, but, like the rest, plans for them must be held in abeyance?or in reserve.
They may be used only if they are possible under war conditions. But a program is being worked out.
What it will be is not yet known. It will be appropriate, however, for the glory of the occasion. It will live up to the traditions of Utah, as far as is possible, and will direct national attention to the State's most important event?the Centennial of its discovery and settlement by Brigham Young and the original pioneers.
Among the plans tentatively made are: Issuance by the U. S.
Government of a Utah Centennial stamp for nation-wide distribution.
Approval and issuance by the U. S.
Government for permits for a Utah Centennial cachet.
Approval by the U. S.
Government of a cancellation stamp telling of the Utah Centennial.
Recital of incidents in Utah history through national magazines and newspaper syndicates.
Development of Utah's cultural activities; such as dramas, pageants, and other enterprises.
Development of Utah's scenic, recreational, vacation and sports possibilities through the promotion of events to attract national publicity.
Development of national publicity for the State.
Depending upon conditions, some of these plans may be fully realized, and others developed to a lesser degree; but as war conditions permit, the Utah Centennial will be celebrated to its fullest possible extent.
