[Vol32 | June 1945 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Editorial | Title: President Spafford]

345 EDITORIAL 


VOL. 32 JUNE 1945 NO. 6
President Heber J. Grant RELIEF Society has sustained a great loss in the passing of our beloved and revered President, Heber J. Grant. For many years this organization has enjoyed the personal interest of this great Church leader. It has benefited from his thoughtful considerations, his wise counsel, and his generous support of its varied activities. President Grant was the son of a Relief Society mother. For thirty years Rachel Ivins Grant served as president of Relief Society in the Thirteenth Ward. From the time he was a small child until he grew too old to attend. President Grant accompanied his mother to Relief Society meetings where he became familiar with the work of the Society and learned of its importance and value. He became acquainted with early-day Relief Society leaders, enjoying a personal, intimate association with these sisters. He observed their nobility of character and their devotion to duty and he has often borne testimony of their influence upon his life. In an address given at a general conference of Relief Society in 1937, he paid a tribute to these sisters as follows: "I owe more to the love and teachings of my mother, to Eliza R. Snow and the Relief Society sisters than I do to the brethren. Why? Because I grew up from a little child in the Relief Society meetings. Mother had no one to leave me Page 346 with, and I played on the floor in many of those meetings. Aunt Eliza used to talk to me by the hour and tell me things about the Prophet Joseph Smith, and it inspired in my heart a love for him almost beyond my ability to express; in fact, my mother, Sister Snow, and others, inspired in me a love for the Gospel and the Prophet Joseph Smith and the authorities of the Church by their devotion to the work of God, by their example, not by talk alone." In a message to Relief Society women, October 1940, President Grant paid the following tribute to Relief Society general presidents and Board members: "Every president of the General Board of Relief Society has been a devout, intelligent, fine, loyal Latter-day Saint; and I have known most of the members of the Board, and they are among the choicest of our people." President Grant has continuously encouraged Relief Society women and his blessings have sustained them. At the time of the Relief Society Centennial observance when, due to the engagement of the United States in war, the planned Centennial program had to be greatly modified and when the sisters with anxious hearts faced the trying experiences which accompany war, President Grant's words of instruction, commendation, and blessing were a guiding power and a comforting influence. He prayed for them: "May our Heavenly Father bless the mothers in Israel and all who are engaged in building up the kingdom of God on the earth. May the peace and blessings of heaven abide in your homes and be upon you and your loved ones now and forever."
Relief Society women are grateful for the life of President Grant. They acknowledge his support, the wisdom of his leadership, and the influence of his testimony. His greatest desire for us was that we live in accordance with the teachings of the gospel and that we zealously devote ourselves to the work of the Church. May we ever honor him by so doing. May the comforting blessings of Heaven rest upon Sister Grant and the other bereaved loved ones.
?B.S.S. SENTIMENTS OF PRESIDENT GRANT If I know my own heart, I believe it is set upon the advancement of the Church and kingdom of God. I know that there is nothing on the earth that I rejoice over so much as I do in the fact that I am associated with the servants and handmaidens of God in the Church of Jesus Christ; and I do not believe that there ever is a day that passes over my head that I do not thank God for the restoration again of the plan of life and salvation, and that I have been made a partaker of the same. I supplicate Him earnestly that my mind may never become darkened, that I may never depart from the truth; that I may never forget any of the covenants that I have made, but, as I grow in years and increase in understanding, that I may grow in a testimony of the gospel and in the desire?not only a desire, but in doing it ?to labor for the onward advancement of the kingdom of God on the earth. I have perhaps announced before, but I will announce again, that in a meeting of some of the Presidents of Ward Relief Societies held in the Salt Lake Stake, which then embraced the entire County of Salt Lake, I was a child, playing on the floor. Eliza R.
Snow had the gift of tongues, and Sister Zina D.
Young gave the interpretation, and predicted that I should live to be one of the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ in this last dispensation. Naturally, I have been very grateful for that splendid blessing given to me. At that time I did not understand it, I did not comprehend it?did not know anything about it. I look forward with the keenest pleasure of meeting in the hereafter Hamilton G. Park, George Goddard, Bishop Nelson Empey, Bishop Edwin D. Woolley, Bishop Milieu Atwood, and others who have made an impression for good upon my mind and heart as a boy. I could mention scores of others to whom I am indebted. I shall be grateful throughout all the ages of eternity to those men for the impression that they made upon me. We may think that the impressions we make may not be lasting, but I can assure you they are, I am sure that a testimony borne by a teacher to little children, under the inspiration of the living God, is a difficult thing for them to forget.