[Vol32 | June 1945 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

Page 344
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon THE December bulletin of the International Council of Women carries a message from the Council's president, the Belgian Baroness Marthe PolBoel, exulting in her country's regained freedom, and expressing deepest gratitude to its liberators. She asserts that even in their darkest hour the Belgians did not doubt either their friends or themselves. During the Baroness' internment, Dr. Renee Girod carried on as acting president from neutral Switzerland, while Lady Nunburnholme, first vice-president, issued some of the bulletins from London. Says the latter, world peace will be very difficult to attain, but "every new birth is linked with pain." IN most countries, the National Councils of Women are working for greater social security and an equal wage scale for women and men. In addition, the 'Belgian women are asking for: the vote; women police; a woman member of the national radio-information council; medical examinations for returned prisoners and deportees; the same treatment for widows of Belgians executed for patriotism as for regular war widows. DURING the past year American women have had a voice in international councils. Dean C. Mildred Thompson of Vassar College was a delegate to the Allied Ministers of Education Conference in London. At the Hot Springs, Virginia, Conference on Food and Agriculture, Josephine Schain was a delegate from the United States. Mrs. Ellen S. Woodward, a member of the Social Security Board, and Miss Elizabeth Conkey were American delegates to the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Conference. Our women also attended the International Labor Conference held at Philadelphia, April 1944. OF the 125,000,000 impoverished people of Europe, great numbers of children are living in roofless homes. In many cases ten people must live in one room. There is much hunger and lack of adequate clothing and bedding. AMONG our American WAC are 315 young Indian women. LAST year 250,000 babies were born under the Emergency Maternity Program. EVE GARRETTE has written for instruction and entertainment A Political Handbook for Women. Some chapter titles are: "Things You Want to Know About Your Constitution," "Why Do We Have Political Parties?" "How to Get Into Politics." Page