7 The Culture of the Pioneers Julia A. F. Lund THE narrative of our Pioneers is a gallant story—human and inspiring! The mighty achievements, the splendid discipline acquired through their mental, moral and spiritual training were equalled only by the clarity of vision, unity of purpose and refinements of life, so characteristic of this people. Those who survived in the early. Migrations to Utah became a heroic race. They had made the great decision, turned their backs upon the homes of the past, and risked all upon an unknown future. With every step of their frontier experience they had drawn upon ingenuity, resourcefulness and endurance, upon daring, patience and courage—traits not merely indispensable for pioneers but which must go into the make-up of every great and successful people. Our Pioneers, though descending from many racial stocks and Faiths, were real Americans and were so much alike in age, in wealth, or the lack of it, in ambition and in religious convictions that they possessed a much greater solidarity than is usual in colonization. It was this, no doubt, which caused one historian to write of them: "The Mormons are not a religious sect, but an empire-building people." We like, rather, to think of them as "community builders," which they were from the beginning of their history. Long before Utah became the scene of their activities, Ohio, Missouri and Illinois had lasting evidence of their work, which not only expressed daring and hardihood in pioneering, but displayed a fine culture as well. 'There was always the desire to safeguard the welfare of ° the individual, to increase and disseminate knowledge, and to further the betterment of the group as a whole. They were a part of what was at the time a pioneer movement for liberalizing and popularizing education for men and women alike. Some of our most influential Church members were students of Oberlin College, one of the first co-educational institutions to be opened in the United States. Education, in its broadest sense, never had a more constant and eloquent advocate than the Prophet Joseph Smith. In 1833, the School of the Prophets was founded in Kirtland, and the people were all instructed "to seek diligently... Out of the best books, words of wisdom; to seek learning, even by study and also by faith." In 1840, the establishment of The University of the City of Nauvoo was authorized. This TEMPLE SQUARE IN EARLY DAYS 1. West South Temple Street; 2. The old south gate; 3. The first tabernacle; 6. A pioneer home outside of Square. The thatched roof structure is the old Bowery, which seated 10,000 people. Was for "the teaching of the arts, sciences, and learned professions." The City of Nauvoo was the beginning of the trek which ended in Salt Lake Valley.