One of our greatest historians has written: "Save only the preservation of the Union itself, no other task has been so important as the settlement of the West.... Those who built up the West did more even than they thought, for they shaped thereby the destiny of the whole Republic.... The West has steadily tended to accentuate the peculiarly American characteristics of its people.... The winning of the West was the great epic feat in the history of our race." What a master part the Utah Pioneers played in this great drama of civilization, forming as they did the connecting link between the great East and the far West! After the tragic exodus from Nauvoo, and while the people were encamped waiting to begin the westward journey, they were first visited by Col. Thomas L. Kane, representing the Government of the United States. On March 26, 1850, Colonel Kane read a paper before the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. He gave a graphic description of our Pioneers as he saw them in the camps, on the march, and afterward settled in Utah. He attended the party held in the Bowery in honor of the Mormon Battalion before its departure. Of this he said: "If anything told the Mormons had been bred to other lives, it was the appearance of the women as they assembled here. Before their flight, they had sold their watches and trinkets as the most available resources for raising ready money; and hence, like their partners who wore waistcoats with useless pockets, they, although their ears were pierced and bore the loop marks of rejected pendants, were without earrings, finger rings, chains or brooches. Except for such omaments, however, they lacked nothing most becoming the attire of decorous maidens. The neatly darned white stockings and clean THE CULTURE OF THE PIONEERS bright petticoat, the artistically clean starched collar and chemisette, the sometimes faded, only because too well washed, lawn or gingham gown that fitted modishly to the waist of its pretty wearer—these, if any of them spoke of poverty, spoke of a poverty that had known its better days." ONE of the most pronounced characteristics of the culture of the Pioneers was the great emphasis placed upon the family as the most intimate expression of social relationship. The question transcending all others in importance was the manner in which family life was lived. It had a deeply religious significance; for their Faith taught that the family unit is eternal, that the teachings of Jesus are essentially domestic. The tide of culture of a people can never rise higher than the standards of its home life. Colonel Kane makes the following comment as he saw them "on the march": "Inside the camp, the chief labors were assigned to the women. From the moment when, after the halt, the lines had been laid, the spring wells dug out, and the ovens and fireplaces built, though the men still assumed to set the guards and enforce the regulations of police, the Empire of the Tented Town was with the better sex.