Tueller nudged her intimately and smiled, "Your Donny, too, iss sergeant. Mine Frederick tell me. Frederick say Donny iss one fine marcher, so straight und tall! You come to see him, eh?" Nancy nodded. Mrs. Rinetti leaned closer. "We miss you atta de P. T. A. You no getta da slip to tell you to come?" "I got the notice," Nancy said, "but I can't come to the meetings. I have no one to leave the children with." "Ach, dat's nicht. Mine Hannah, she iss fourteen already, she vill stay mit next time," Mrs. Tueller offered. Nancy brushed the damp hair back from her forehead. "When will it start?" she asked impatiently. "Ach, soon. De President vas late a little. Ach, de President! Ve vill see him mit our own eyes. It makes my heart go tump! Tump! 450 tump!" and Mrs. Tueller rolled her blue eyes in ecstasy. Nancy looked down the street. Yes, it was the foreigners who got a kick out of this sort of thing—the foreigners and the politicians, the soap-box orators and the unthinking people like Miss Nelson, who wanted to do something dramatic. She wished she were home again on the porch. Suddenly, from far away, came the fairy-like sound of a band playing, and everyone stopped talking and turned toward the music. Nancy scanned her neighbors' faces—they all had the same eager, anticipating look. They seemed to have forgotten the heat and the dust and to be transported above earthy things. Then the first part of the parade came into view: the veterans in their ill-fitting uniforms (why did they keep on wearing those same uniforms even though they had grown too stout for them?); the veterans' band; the high school cadets and their band; the railroad men's union and its band. Each unit marched past Nancy's little group, went on to the square, and drew up at attention to see the President as he passed. "Veterans! Cadets! It's all army now," Nancy thought bitterly. But here came the thing Nancy wanted most to see—the living flag, made up of the children of the city. It was so wide it reached from curb to curb, and so long—Nancy's heart constricted with pain at the ridiculous length of that flag. Why, every child in the city must be marching there, dressed in red or white or blue. Mrs. Tueller and Mrs. Olsen, Mrs. Rinetti and Mrs. Finklestein let out a cheer, and Nancy felt her throat grow taut. 

 

 Then Mrs. Tueller wiped her eyes on her handkerchief. "There's mine Frederick now!" she said, "Isn't he a proud boy!" Mrs. Edwards, standing near Mrs. Tueller, covered her eyes as a quick sob choked her. "I was in England last fall when the children were being evacuated from the cities," she explained. "Lines of children walking along, oh, so quietly, and their mothers watching—boys and girls carrying their little kits, with gas masks slung across their shoulders...." She stopped, unable to go on. "Ach, I know! I know!" comforted Mrs. Tueller. "And mine brudder, he has a son, Heinrich, not much bigger as my Frederick—oh, maybe four years older already. But who knows what has happened to him? Perhaps he has marched, too, but where?" Suddenly the sun was darkened. Nancy's hand went to her throat as she saw a dark cloud rise beside the marching children. She leaned forward and peered into that gray mist and saw, marching there on silent feet, hosts of little boys and girls, no larger than these in their holiday costumes. But those she pictured were ragged and dirty; their hair was uncombed, and their little feet were bleeding. Hunger stared out of their eyes, and sickness and hopelessness. There were small, round, yellow faces, with slant eyes looking out uncomprehendingly at some horror Nancy could only guess; there were dark-haired little children running along begging for food; there were blond babies whose blue eyes were filled with stark terror. Close upon the heels of this ghostly battalion came a host of little BLESSED EVENT folks with curious boxes upon their shoulders, children not unlike Donny and Rosemary, but with an unanswered question burning in their eyes. Nancy shook her head to clear the tears that blinded her, and saw again the ranks of gaily, proudly marching boys and girls. Yes, there was Donny! He was the straightest, tallest marcher, and there was nothing but joy and pride in his eyes. Rosemary would be coming now, a tiny point of a white star—— Marching children! Children! The band was playing! What was that tune? Oh, yes, "God Bless America!" Nancy leaned forward and began to sing, "God bless America, Land that I love!" Mrs. Tueller, Mrs. Rinetti, Mrs. Olsen, Mrs. Edwards, and Mrs. Finklestein—all the mothers joined in. The small, happy faces turned for a moment as the children passed. Donny, sergeant that he was, did not deign to wave; but Frederick did. When Rosemary passed her mother, singing so boldly from the platform, she waved her 451 hand joyously, forgetful of decorum. The living flag came to a halt and formed in good order for the President to admire. He came now in his car, bareheaded, smiling, nodding at everyone. Mrs. Finklestein said proudly, "My, ain't he handsome? I'm sure glad I seen him. He looks just like his pictures!" Then it was all over, and the living flag was no longer, but only gay bits of red and white and blue frolicking over the park lawn. Donny and Rosemary came running to Nancy. "Must we go home, Moms?" Donny begged, remembering what she had said. Nancy looked down at her son. "Home so soon, Donny?" she asked gaily. "Oh, no! Let's all go down and get some hot dogs and root beer —you, too, Mrs. Finklestein and Levi, Mrs. Tueller and Frederick and Hannah and the baby, Mrs. Edwards, Mrs. Rinetti—all of you. Come on, it's my treat!" Donny looked up amazed, "But, Moms!" "You want to celebrate, don't you, Donny? And Rosemary? It's Mother's birthday—as an American. Come on!" The Rector advised Arthur Donnithorne in regards to Hetty as follows: "When I've made up my mind I can't afford to buy a tempting dog, I take no notice of him, because if he took a strong fancy to me, and looked lovingly at me, the struggle between arithmetic and inclination might become unpleasantly severe."—Adam Bede by George Eliot. Women in Literature By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll Part I entitled "Can Women Be Great Artists?" The author's answer to his question was an emphatic, "No!" He began: Some time ago I read an article "Women artists—there are no such individuals. Women achieve no more than mediocrity in any of the fine arts. They lack a certain faculty so necessary to distinguished work. They are not fitted to express themselves through the medium of fine arts. They lack the strength and mental power of the male, and every single male essential that enters into art. Down through the ages, history itself reveals that the fair sex as a whole never achieved more than a so-so effect in the field of the fine arts." If this were to be an argument, certain facts might be presented to show why the author's statement is largely true. Other facts might be given to prove that many men who have achieved distinction in the field of the fine arts owe their success to women close to them—sisters, wives, mothers—who have been willing to submerge their own gifts that they might help the artist to reach his goal. Other facts might be called upon to show that the field in which woman has distinguished herself since time began is a greater "fine art" than the production of masterpieces in painting, music, and literature. But this is not an argument. It is merely a statement of some of the achievements of a few women in one of the fine arts. Though women writers are seldom included in anthologies of world masterpieces, many are recognized in collections of minor literature, and perhaps their "mediocre" accomplishments are as necessary to the enrichment of life as the greater masterpieces of geniuses. For as one writer says, "We need not only the great masterpieces to serve as lighthouses to guide us safely past the dangers of life and on into the goals of eternity, but also the minor masterpieces which serve as candles to guide and cheer us through the difficulties of our daily lives." For the immediate comfort and inspiration of each day do we not perhaps most often turn to lines from some humbler poet, or to the solution of life's difficult situations found in the stories of a minor novelist? And among the minor writers of the world, women do have an honored place. This article will call attention to a few of the many who might be considered. Six hundred years before Christ, there lived in Greece a woman poet who was loved by her contemporaries, and who is still loved today. A story is told of a great Athenian lawgiver to whom, when he lay on his deathbed, a poem by Sappho was read.