LESSON DEPARTMENT Marks of the Apostasy. 1. The Change in Gospel Ordinances. The primacy of faith and repentance in the Gospel were set aside through the institution of infant baptism, and the form of the ordinance was changed to sprinkling or pouring. Hands were no longer laid upon the heads of the baptized candidates to confer the Holy Ghost. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, under the influence of pagan religious practices, ceased to be a memorial ceremony and was changed into a mystical sacrifice. 2. Changes in Worship Forms and Religious Practices. In an attempt to make the plain Christian service attractive to outsiders, the church had gradually adopted many of the practices of her pagan contemporaries that were appealing to the eye, ear, and mind of the superstitious masses. The following is a partial list of these adoptions: statuary and its accompanying adoration; an altar as a sanctuary within the church; the ceremonial burning of candles; the praying to a number of special "saints" for intercession with the Godhead or for particular favors; special ceremonial robes for the priests; pilgrimages to shrines; veneration of sacred relics; ascetic practices of persecuting the body for the welfare of the spirit; the compulsory collection of tithes; and the adoption of the birthday of the pagan God, Mithras, (December 25) as the natal day of Christ, and its conversion into Christmas. 3. Doctrinal Innovations. Under the influence of pagan philosophy, the Christians denied the individual existence of three beings in the Godhead, explaining the three as being different manifestations of one 483 God. The elevation of Mary to a position of divinity, through whom prayers to the Son should be addressed, was obviously unknown in apostolic days. Marriage and family life became secondary considerations, as celibacy and monasticism were viewed as the ideal forms for Christian living. The doctrines of original sin and predestination denied the free agency with which the apostolic missionaries had taught that all mortals were endowed. 4. Loss of Spiritual Gifts. The church frankly admitted that revelation had ceased with the passing of the apostolic age. General church councils, which decided matters of doctrine by majority vote?the voters often being coerced or bribed?boldly changed Gospel teachings. Prophecy and inspired leadership were no longer present. 5. Church Government and Leadership. The democratic spirit of the primitive church, with its universal priesthood, was replaced by a self-perpetuating professional hierarchy, not responsible to the church membership over which it presided. As classical culture declined, men who formerly made their living as rhetoricians and philosophers were attracted to Christianity for the livelihood it offered. Their paganizing influence on the doctrines and practices of the church was immeasurable. As an afterthought, in the fifth century, the idea was promulgated that the Bishop of Rome was the vicar of Christ and the universal head of the Christian Church. Results of the Days of Spiritual Darkness. In the Roman Empire, Christianity gradually became a religion in which to believe, rather 484 than a group of spiritual principles by which to live. It became intolerant, using the force of arms to achieve its ends where necessary. Heretics were vigorously persecuted, and the religious freedom which had made possible the founding of the church in the days of Peter and Paul no longer existed. Christianity had become a composite of Christian and pagan principles, ideas and practices, rather than a preservation of the primitive Gospel of Jesus Christ. Every vestige of divine power had been lost by the so-called Christian Church before the Medieval period. Pre-Reformation Discontent with the Medieval Catholic Church. Although the Roman Catholic Church was the sole religion in Western Europe for about ten centuries, there had never been a century pass without priests or laymen criticizing the church's worldliness, moral corruption, or doctrinal innovations. Peter Waldo, Marsilius of Padua, John Wycliffe and John Huss are outstanding among these early reformers. Martin Luther and the Reformation Movement. In his thirty-fourth year (1517), Dr.