NEWS AND VIEWS.	
			    _____
	Dead At last—The Freedmen’s Bureau.
	In November, which? Grant or Greeley?
	The Boston Jubilee did pay ex-
penses after all, it is averred. Happy Gil-
more! Thrice happy Boston!
	Newspaper Blackguarding and gross
misrepresentation are among the chief char-
acteristics of the Presidential campaign, as
usual.
	Gilmore’s Grand gathering of the
musical clans at Boston closed on the
Fourth. The sad refrain comes across the
continent that the Jubilee did not pay.
	Chicago With an eye to thrift and pru-
dence, grants licenses for the side of fire-
crackers, and assesses a fine of ten dollars
for exploding them. That is municipal
wisdom unalloyed.
	England Has discovered a new liquor to
get drunk on. It is composed of naptha and
ether, will save wheat and barley, and may
possibly fill prisons, madhouses and graves
as rapidly as older stimulating beverages.
	Fifteen Hundred dollars for each ap-
pearance, and expenses paid, was the tune
to which Madame Peschka Leutner sung at
the Jubilee. She is reported to have “a
magnificent organ,” and her notes are un-
questionably golden ones.
	Harvard college has appointed a com-
mittee to consider the propriety of admit-
ting girls; and Dartmouth is exercised be-
cause the woman of the age demands ad-
mission. The world moves, and women
may claim the right, by and by, to have the
best education which the first seat of learn-
ing in the country can impart.
	Kentucky has another hero, a four-
footed one, “Longfellow” by name, that won
the Monmouth cup at the late Long Branch
races; and Kentucky is as enthusiastic over
the fleet quadruped as if it were a gifted
son of the State, who had performed some
noble deed which would reflect honor on
himself, his family and the place that gave
him birth.
	The Stokes trial for the murder of Fisk
draws to a close, and the usual insanity
fiction has been set up as a plea by the de-
fense. If a few of these prominent cases of
“insanity,” as developed in murders, were
confined for life in a well-conducted mad-
house, there would be fewer instances of it
being set up as a plea to save the hangman
of a job. Will Stokes be executed? Very
unlikely.
	Miss Nellie Grant is the champion
traveler. The telegraphic news lately an-
nounced she was in Switzerland, and the
next night the same reliable source of in-
telligence had her in London at a session of
the House of Lords. Doubtless Miss Nellie
is an estimable young woman, but the way
she is talked of in the newspapers must be a
source of great annoyance in the future
when she comprehends fully how ridiculous
they have sought to make her appear with
their tawdry toadying.
	The first State election of the present
campaign will be held in North Carolina on
August 1st. It is expected that the Grant
party will tarry the State, for it is alleged
that large sums of money are being used for
that purpose. The statement speaks vol-
umes concerning the “patriotism,” “intelli-
gence” and “love of country” which ani-
mate the voter man, bleached or colored. If
the allegation be correct, and we have not
seen it disputed, the integrity and safety of
the country merely depend upon a man or
party rich enough to buy power.
	Mrs.	 Hartvie proposes, as Mrs.
Gorden, when she stepped on the platform
in Cincinnati and boldly claimed her right
to speak, was insulted by the “hoodlums”
of the assembly and forced to withdraw,
that in future women go one hundred in
number and stand up all together, like an
iron ring, and surround and protect their
elected epeaker. That would be rather sen-
sational, and, a pleasant “out” for some of
us; but. who would pay the expenses, and
look after the babies while we were about
it, is a question that will bear consideration.
	Three American women, unaccustomed
to the proprieties which are deemed essen-
tial in many places outside of the United
States, went walking fashionably dressed at
a late hour, out in Edinburgh, Scotland, to
visit Holyrood Palace. Their stylish dress
attracted attention, and a mob gathered
around them, a couple of policemen having
finally to afford them protection and escort
them to a place of safety. There is a little
moral attached to this, which the public can
furnish to it themselves.
	The nomination of Horace Greeley and
B. Gratz Brown, a couple of editors, made
at Cincinnati in May, has been repeated at
Baltimore. On Wednesday last, the 10th
inst., the National Democratic Convention,
on the first ballot, gave Greeley 686 votes
out of 732, and then made his nomination
unanimous. Brown, on the first ballot, re-
ceived 713 votes, when his nomination was
also made unanimous. These two men,
therefore, are the chosen candidates of two
great Conventions, and as opposed to Grant
and Wilson have strong hopes of election to
the highest offices within the gift of the
people. Women cannot vote in the States,
or they would be even stronger.
	Jennie Bronson has been the wife of a
Mr. Holbrook, of New Orleans. But a di-
vorce came between them, and a new Mrs.
Holbrook took the place formerly occupied
by Jennie. Quite recently, while the second
Mrs. H. was making her toilet, Jennie
entered her dressing room and fired at her
twice with a pistol. The two women clutched,
when the divorced woman took a bay rum
bottle and battered it into pieces over the
other’s head. She then demolished furni-
ture and fixings, routed the domestics, and
was finally removed to prison, leaving a
dying woman behind. This should be
charged to a madly jealous disposition and
an ungoverned temper; but it might be
charged to matrimony and divorce just as
sensibly as some people charge every do-
mestic difficulty in Utah to plural marriage.
	On Wednesday last, the 10th inst., in
the National Democratic Convention at
Baltimore, Horace Greeley, a life-long an-
tagonist of the Democratic party, was
unanimously nominated as their candidate
for the Presidency of the United States. It
was one of the most startling political acts
that our country has yet seen. And in ac-
cepting that nomination Mr. Greeley said,
the time would yet come when it would be
acknowledged that they were none the less
Democrats because they nominated him, and
that he was none the less a Republican be-
cause he accepted the nomination. There is a
strong combination of political elements all
over the country, not long ago bitterly op-
posed to each other, but now united in the
determination to make Mr. Greeley the
next President of the United States, and the
indications point to their success.
	Three leading National Conventions
have lately been held, at Cincinnati, Phila-
delphia and Baltimore, and the advocates of
woman suffrage endeavored to present their
claims before each. At Cincinnati they were
rather ungracefully treated. At Philadel-
phia a quasi recognition was given to their
demands. And as the Baltimore Conven-
tion adopted the Cincinnati platform, no ac-
knowledgement was made there of the right
of woman to the ballot. The cause of wo-
man suffrage evidently finds little sympathy
with any of the great-political parties. The
Philadelphia allusion to the services of wo-
man and her rights, was included in the
platform for political effect, but so transpar-
ent as to be seen through at a glance. Had the
Republican party meant in good faith what
their platform set forth, their Congressmen
could easily have passed an amendment to
the Constitution conferring the suffrage
upon woman, and sent it to the Legislatures
of the different States for ratification, as
they did with the one enfranchising the
negroes. Women will gain a just recogni-
tion of the right demanded when the peo-
ple at large concede it, regardless of politi-
cians or party platforms.
	Some five years ago a Miss Barber, of
Milford, Massachusetts, conceived the ro-
mantic idea of carrying civilization and re-
finement to the Indians by marrying a chief
and accompanying him to his home in the
wilderness. She was married to Squatting
Bear, a young chief of the Brule Sioux, who
was at Washington, in 1867, and went with
him to his hunting-ground in Dacota. There
she found that Fennimore Cooper’s glowing
descriptions of the noble red man, if not
highly colored pieces of prose poetry, had
no reality among the Sioux. She found
several other Mrs. Squatting Bears occupy-
ing the lodge of her dusky liege-lord. In-
stead of being approached with reverence
as a being of a superior race, and listened to
with eagerness while she poured noble sen-
timents into the ears of those dwellers of
the plains, she was treated like the other
squaws, compelled to do the usual drudgery
of an Indian’s wife, beaten like a dog, and
compelled to witness the murder of one of
his squaws by her savage husband. She
tried to escape, was captured, nearly killed,
and sold to a Cheyenne chief for three
ponies. After being with the Cheyennes
until last Spring, she succeeded in escaping
to Fort Benton, and subsequently returned
to Massachusetts. Romance often makes sad
havoc of the future of young women, but it
is seldom that it weaves a web of such bar-
barous sufferings as in this instance.


