HOUSEHOLD HINTS
				—
 A WOMAN who attempts to carry out-
plans of system, order and economy, is con-
stantly liable to have them crossed, and her
expectations violated by the inexperience
or negligence of those about her. The busi-
ness of housekeeping consists of items so
small that for want of care and order, the
whole often becomes a confused mass, and
everything must, inevitably go wrong. Al-
though, at such times, an orderly house-
keeper is apt to be irritated and feel like
giving vent to her irritability in harsh, re-
proving words, a calm, decided spirit is the
best calculated to meet such difficulties, for
the restoration of complete discipline. Scold-
ing does not do much good, and a con-
tinuous stream of complaint and reproof is
generally met by sullen silence or imperti-
nence from a child or a domestic. Anger is
likely to prevent any resolution of future
amendment, or any regret for past misde-
meanor. A woman should regard her duties,
as dignified, important and difficult, and her
mind may be soothed and even elevated by
a sense of the far-reaching influence of her
example. If she feels that she is a cypher
and that it makes little difference how she
performs her duties, she has far less to
sustain her than if she feels the importance
of her station and the weight of her respon-
sibilities.
	FOR HOUSE PLANTS.—A good fertilizer is
made by dissolving one ounce of glue in one
gallon of water and use for moistening the
plants.
	TO CLEAN DECANTERS.—The best way to
clean decanters, after wine has stood in them
for some time, is to wash them out with a
little pearl-ash and warm water, adding, if
necessary, a spoonful or two of fresh slacked
lime.  A few very small cinders will facili-
tate the action of the fluid against the sides
of the vessel.
	FOR HOARSENESS.—Take the whites of
two eggs, beat them and add two spoonsful
of white sugar; grate in a little nutmeg and
then add a pint of luke-warm water. Stir
well and drink often. Repeat the prepara-
tion if necessary, and it is said to cure the
most obstinate case of hoarseness in a com-
paratively short time.
	WHITE of eggs for burns is now used ex-
tensively, and seems to be preferable to
collodion or cotton. Seven or eight success-
ive applications of this substance, sooths
pain; and it effectually excludes the air
from the burn.
	LEMON SPONGE.—Dissolve one ounce of
isinglass in a pint of boiling water; when
cold, strain it and add the juice of three
lemons, strained; two ounces of white sugar,
the rind of a lemon cut very thin; beat all
together and strain it.  When nearly cold,
add the whites of two eggs well beaten and
whisk it until it becomes of the consistency
of sponge; wet a mould and put in the
sponge. It should be partly settled before
the whisking is commenced, or it will take
longer to do.
	RAISED CAKE WITHOUT EGGS.—Stir to-
gether a large coffee cupful of light brown
or white sugar and half a cupful of butter;
add half a pint of sweet milk arid half a pint
of warm water; stir in flour enough to make
a thick batter and half a cupful of yeast; set
it to rise over night and in the morning stir
in a cupful of chopped raisins or currants,
and a teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves
and nutmeg. Put into baking pans; let it
rise until perfectly light, and then bake
slowly.


