FACTS.
			    —
	A great many people who visit Salt Lake
City and remain over night, or a couple of days
and nights, go away imagining themselves
tolerably well informed with regard to affairs
in Utah. An account of a visit to Salt Lake
and what was learned, appears in some news-
paper; and after reading it, no one need be in
doubt as to what sort of person or persons the
writers have been entertained by while here; if
there appears a shadow of truth in the article.
Once in a while an humble visitant sees only
good in us, and illustrates the Mormons as be-
ing all happy, all virtuous, intelligent, temper-
ate, moral and industrious. This, however, is
rarely the case, as we are most likely to be
misjudged in a less pleasant style.  Even those
who wish to be unprejudiced, and treat with
candor what they are led to observe, have their
eyes blinded and their minds darkened concern-
ing Utah and the Mormons, and represent un-
truths which they themselves may believe to
be correct.
	The Mormons do not claim to  have
reached a standard of perfection yet. They do
not assume to have overcome the world, its
evils, temptations and sufferings. They never
insinuate that there are no bad people among
them; no inebriates, liars, thieves, fools, scound-
rels and hypocrites. They are ever ready to
confess that there are numbers, professing to be
Latter-day Saints, whom his Satanic majesty
might blush to acknowledge as his relatives.
To say they are all contented would not be
true; that none in Polygamy find it a cross
would be false. But that as a people, and mak-
ing the statement in a general sense, the Mor-
mons are the most temperate, industrious,
chaste and generous in their desires and


practices, and, in consequence of this, the most
felicitous in their everyday life, of any class of
people extant, is one principle to which they
adhere. And one proof of the efficacy of the
basis upon which this faith is built, is evinced
by the spirit manifested in the reports of meet-
ings held by women outside and inside of Mor-
mondom. Minutes of meetings held in San Fran-
cisco and other places, show that the women
are dissatisfied with their present position and
wish to burst the bonds of tyranny in which
they consider themselves bound. While min-
utes of those held in Utah speak of peace, good-
will, satisfaction and thankfulness for the great
blessings with which the majority of the Mormon
women consider themselves surrounded. And
yet, these very women who are so anxious to
free themselves, misrepresent the women of
Utah as “broken-hearted,down-trodden, misera-
ble creatures,” whom they imagine have no
sense or spirit.
	If their position is happier for them than
ours would be, we are willing that they should
maintain it, and improve it as fast and as
much as possible. We have no thought of ex-
changing with them, or drawing over to their
views and opinions; for while in the possession
of our senses, we prize our freedom too highly
to yield it so unprofitably; and only regret the
waste of sympathy lavished upon us, who
neither need nor appreciate it.


