SUMMER MORTALITY;
			
  For some seasons past an unusual mortality
has prevailed in this city, particularly among
children, in the latter part of the summer, es-
pecially in the months of August and Septem-
ber; and occasionally continuing through Octo-
ber. At one time it has appeared as diptheria;
at another.as scarlet fever; but more generally
the fatal disease has taken the form of an
epedemic bowel complaint, and the little
victims to it have had the causes of their death
variously reported as cholera-infantum, teeth-
ing, and bowel-complaint.
  Why this mortality should come thus period-
ically and fill numerous children’s graves is a
subject which medical skill has so far failed to
furnish satisfactory reasons for. Some persons
attribute it to the eating of unripe fruit; others
to miasmatic vapors arising from stagnant wa-
ter near the southwestern portion of the city,
and some again to other causes. But while the
source of the mortality is not satisfactorily un-
derstood, there is little doubt that much sick-
ness and many deaths maybe prevented by moth
ers exercising due care in observing the laws of
health. A regular condition of body is neces-
sary to the preservation of health, and this is
more especially so during the latter part of
Summer and early Autum, when the human
system is relaxed and more or less enervated
from continued heat. Mothers who are nursing
cannot be too careful as to what they eat and
drink, if they desire the infants that draw sus-
tenance from them to enjoy good health. Fruit
or vegetables which they are unaccustomed to


use should be very sparingly partaken of; so
with watermelons or anything calculated to
relax the system; for laxity and constipation
are equally dangerous. To nurse an infant
when the body is overheated is injurious, nor
can it be done without evil results to the babe.
And the eating ot much pastry or highly
seasoned food is also productive of injury and
often of serious consequences. A regular and
temperate diet, exercising care not to partake
too freely of anything which is not ordinarily
used, is best for the preservation of health for
all, and more particularly nursing mothers.
  A sad and often fatal mistake made by many,
and growing out of maternal fondness, is the 
giving children any kind of food that may be
on the table for which they express a desire. A
little one seated in its mother's lap will ask or
make signs for something of which she is par-
taking and she cannot refuse. The childish
wish is gratified. It may be meat, or pie, or
something else which its tender stomach is
utterly incapable of digesting with ease. The
child is taken sick; its mother does not know
what is the matter with it; the disease con-
tinues, and before proper remedies are applied
it has seized fatal hold of its victim and another
little grave is filled, while a weeping mother
murmers against Providence for robbing her of
her babe.
  Mothers, we say in sorrow, that this is too
often the ease. And many a child, whose bones
are now mingling with the dust, might have
been to-day in the possession of life and vigor-
ous health had proper care been taken in the
matter of diet. Think of it, now that Summer
is here.


