NEWS AND VIEWS.
		     
  GONE to rest—The “New York Standard.”
  TO LEARN the value of money—try to
borrow some.
  GRANTS wanted for everything, even for
the National head.
  IT is considered too revolting for soldiers
to shoot a woman, in Paris, and Cantinicer
Gugard, convicted of firing on Bishop Jural,
is to be guillotined.
  EDITH O’Gorman, lecturing on the
Sisters of Charity and Mercy, pronounces
them little better than prostitutes. She must
be crazed and is to be pitied.
  POLITICAL interests are looked after
eveywhere, and party feeling manifested,
even at the Peace Jubilee, where the French
and German bands were coldly civil to each-
other.
  “LIKE begets like.” Seventeen years
ago, a Judge, in Georgia, sentenced John
Dolton to be hung; and a few days ago the
same Judge performed the shine office for
John Dolton’s son.
  SOME enlightened women hold that the
Father designed for man to eat of the for-
bidden fruit; but seeing the consequences,
he had not fortitude to meet the requisition,
so his wife had to do it for him.
  JUAREZ is reported to have been a man
of much firmness, an able General and
politician, a faithful and energetic Presi-
dent; who won the hearts of all, both friends
and foes. Will his successor prove as true
and as beneficial to his country?
  A DELEGATE in the Wisconsin Demo
cratic convention, after struggling vainly in
opposition to the nomination of Greeley,
says, “When we come to die, next Nov-
ember, we shall wish we had not forsaken
the path of virtue.” Honest fellow!
  MRS. Livermore sensibly remarks that
she is in favor of the Republican party,
whether it gives the women Suffrage or not,
even if it does not recognize them at all; be-
cause it advocates all other good things,
and our cause will come in due time.
  MRS. Kellison, an Iowa preacher, recently
delivered a lecture, having for her text,
“Love divided into four parts; L for Love,
O for Obedience, V for Victory and E for
Eternity.” The text is decidedly novel, and,
doubtless, the discourse was elaborate and
entertaining.
  A PORTION of the jewels belonging to the
Empress Eugenie were sold at  auction, a
short time ago, in the rooms of Messrs.
Christie, Mason & Co. The amount realized
was upwards of $250,000 in gold. Nothing
for her—but wouldn’t half the sum make
some poor people rich!
  IT is reported that since the fiasco at
Baltimore, Mrs. E. Cady Stanton,: Mrs.
Laura De Force Gordon, Miss Anthony, and
nearly all the conspicious Women Suffragists
have concluded to support Grant and Wil-
son. Changes will occur, but they are not
always improvements.
  IN Iowa there is no provisions of the law
Which excludes women from holding any
office to which they may be elected. In
several Counties women are holding
elective offices. When the right of suffrage
[new column]
is granted to the women there, whata happy 
State Iowa will be!
  MISS J. F. Ripley has the honor of being
the first woman who has surpassed the men
in the contest of Greek scholarship; for
which she takes the first prize at the State
University of Missouri. This will be en-
couraging to the advocates of a liberal educa-
tion for women.
  GRATITUDE one of the happiest and most
noble attributes with which man has been
endowed, is finely evinced in the character
of the Liberal Democratic candidate for Vice-
President, B. Gratz Brown, in his speech at
New Haven, in which lie acknowledges
that he owes the honors and compliments
he receives as much if not more to his
“Alma mater” than to himself.
  PRIVATE Instructions, to little folks, and
home influences have long been allowed to
be best rendered by woman, and now her
capabilities assume a broader and higher
sphere of action. Mrs. Ellen Webster, the
first woman elected to a county office
in Kansas, has just taken the oath and
been qualified as Superintendent of public
instruction in Harvey County.
  IN March, 1871, an American woman,
Mrs. Emily Gould, opened, in Rome, at her
own expense and with the co-operation of
some of her generous lady-compatriots, a
free school for poor boys and girls. In which
are taught both Italian and English; geogra-
phy,arithmetic,history and the first elements
of the physical sciences. Here is wisdom
and a proper usage of time, means and in-
fluence
  A LADY in this City, over sixty years of
age, finds in the “Portage Co., (O.) Demo-
crat” “A Poetic Address” delivered atMan-
tua on the Fourth of July, 1815, at a celebra-
tion in which she participated, when eleven
years old; and so well does her memory
serve her that she repeats line after line of
the poem without glancing at the paper.
Fifty-seven years is quite a time for a simple
little poem to sleep in an active brain, and
then wake up when called upon, as fresh
and bright as it was when laid away.
  ONE of the most cruel and heartless
punishments that can be inflicted upon
child is to place it in a position where fear
of danger is sustained, whether real or imag-
inary. Don’t do it you who have the care
of youth. Mark the awful consequences
which followed such a transaction, not long
since, in Detroit. A four-year old boy was
left by his parents alone in the house,
though he screamed loudly and begged to
be taken with them, saying he was afraid of
bears and wolves. When they returned, it
was to find their boy insane, and it is feared
he will be a consummate idiot all his life.
  THE orthodox people of England, who
hoped the illness of the Prince of Wales
would cause a radical reform in his course
of life, are getting disheartened again. They
began to be encouraged from his saying in
a speech, that he hoped, by the aid of God
to be of use to his country. But the same
evening he went to see Toole in a dark
play, and laughed inconsiderately, and has
since been to Ascot and other races, and
shows every sign of goihg back into the
graceless fellow he used to be. It is a little
[new column]strange that England, with such a head as
Queen	Victoria, does not concede at once
and fully to the Woman Suffrage movement.
  IT IS now reported that Chinese archives,
having been researched, show that the
architects who designed and the engineers
who built the great wall were women. No
doubt but the statement is correct; but even
if it were not, women must have the credit
of being mothers to the great architects and
engineers which is quite as good. For true
women are more thankful, if possible, for
the glorious deeds enacted by their
noble sons than for any notable work
of their own hands. And they do not
desire that women should be credited with
every worthy action that is performed; it is
enough that no hero, however great, ever
existed without a mother. 
	"THE City of broken hearts," is the
original, romantic name which Mrs. Duni-
way gives to the "Mormon burying ground,"
of which she says: "The largest class of
occupants are 'first wives', who died in their
heroic efforts to become reconciled to the
wonderufl beauty of the practical workings
of the Mormon faith." How could she
have found that out? Even had she taken
the time to walk through the grave yard
and inspect the tombstones and head boards,
(which she doesn't say she did,) the "wicked
Mormons," are not in the habit of inserting
upon these simple monuments the cause of
death; no more than they tell what Brigham
Young does with all the property he takes 
from "apostate women, and their daughters."
  THE "Memphis Appeal" of July 2, con-
tains a striking letter written in March,
from Jackson, Miss., by Bennet Jones to
Dr. Dameron; in which the former coolly
and plainly asks the latter to send his (the
Doctor's) wife to him. He tells Dameron
among other things, that he and Mggie
(the Doctor's) wife to him. He tells Dameron,
among other things, that he and Maggie
(the Doctor's wife) love each other devoted-
ly, and that in the sight of God she belongs
to him. This letter was a portion ot the
testimony evinced in favor of Dameron,
who was acquitted in his trial at the Crim-
inal Court for shooting Jones, who, it also
appears had a wife living. A couple of
divorce cases might have prevented the
murder, but Dameron failed to see the
beauty of such proceedings and took the
next best and most popular way of getting
out of domestic difficulties.
  THE "Pioneer" pronounces the incident
relative to Mrs. Emily' Pitts Stevens and
her pistol, of very little importance, and
states that at the meeting at Platt's Hall,
where the occurence form which the ex-
citement was raised took place, ex-Assem-
blyman Meeker, without just cause, openly
reprimanded those who were earnest in
their applause of sentiments expresses, co-
inciding with their own views; even calling
out Mrs. Stevens name. For which insult,
at the close of the meeting the lady de-
manded an apology.  Meeker refused to
comply, whereupon, some on handed Mrs.
Stevens a small derringer, which she
thoughtlessly put into her pocket. She is
decidedly opposed to the use of fire-arms
and had no thought of using the derringer.
This is a better and more consistent story
than the oner told by California papers, soon
after the incident occurred.


