EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	There appeared an article in the “Deseret
News” of July 10th, on the seduction of a
Miss Hardy by Wm. L. Davis, with com-
ments by a writer in the “New York
Standard.”  The writer says that Miss
Hardy was as bad as her seducer, and if
taken before a jury of women would be pro-
nounced the worst of the two. I, a woman,
would solemnly decry such an unworthy
statement. I am not a young woman; I
have traveled considerably and found the
nature of woman much the same in all
places where I have been. That woman
desires honorable marriage is true; but se-
duction, never! She never wishes her own
downfall; it would be contrary to all reason.
	Man has asserted his superiority and right
to rule; woman has received this idea, and
believed him most religiously. Is this
wrong? Woman sets up a shrine and
places some man there as the Deity, often
to her own sorrow. That women often fall
is sadly true; and that when they have
fallen, they often become utterly reckless is
also a truth. But are they the ones most to
blame? I think not. I know some men
try to destroy young girls; and that when
one of them succeeds he glories in the de-
struction he has wrought and taunts his
his victim with her folly, and spreads
her darkened name far and wide leaving
her nothing but degredation for the
rest of her miserable life. If she escapes
uncontaminated, what then? She and the
Lord only know of the villain’s damning
purposes!
	Can the writer in the “Standard” deny
these facts? I know he cannot. And if I
read his nature aright, as exhibited in his
article, he is not an innocent man—or he
would never libel his mother’s sex. Surely
my judgment is just, for by his own words
have I judged him.
	If Miss Hardy was placed before a jury of
sensible women what would be their sen-
tence? I do not hesitate to say that the de-
stroyer would have been shot dead instead
of only wounded in the hip; for they would
have sorrowed over the downfall of a sister
and striven to reclaim her. Do not think so
meanly of woman as to believe she does not
feel the shame that is brought on her by
the sins of her sister woman. It is as a stab
with a sharp knife. A man can never know
the pain.
	The “Standard” says there would be a fine
time if all the fathers of the miserable be-
ings that ply their horrible trade in New
York would shoot down their visitors.  I
think it would be a great blessing if all the
pure fathers would follow the example of
Mr. Hardy. Let me tell the “Standard”
that one.very fruitful cause of evil in wo-
men is in the evil their fathers have com-
mitted before them. You cannot gather
good fruit from a corrupt tree.
