AN INCIDENT.
				—
		"Teach them correct principles,
	And they will govern themselves.”

	We give the following little incident as
it was told to us by a young teacher, con-
sidering the illustration worthy of notice to


many mothers as well as teachers of the
young:
	“While attending to the more advanced
classes, I gave the small children liberty to
play a portion of the time in the yard sur-
rounding the school house. One day a little
girl left her play and came in to tell me a
very pitiful story. Said she:
	“ ‘Neils has found two bright, pretty
shells, where we were playing, and has
given them both to Hannah, and they won’t
let me have one of them; mustn’t they?’
	“ ‘Did you ask Hannah if she would
please to let you have one of them?’ I
asked.
	“ ‘I am going to say that to her now,’
said Maggie; and away she ran, but presently
returned again with a sorrowful face, and
the sad tidings:
	“ ‘She won’t let me have it, Miss ——,’
	“ ‘Well, I’ll tell you what, Maggie,’ I re-
sponded; ‘put your arms around Hannah’s
neck, kiss her, and say, ‘Hannah, won’t
you let your dear little class-mate have one
of those shells?’
	“Maggie scampered away again, but was
back in a moment, this time holding the
shell up triumphantly, and exclaiming.
“See! school-ma’am, isn’t it pretty?”
	“It was pretty and I said so, and the glad
little creature was off to her play again,
smiling and singing as hapily as ever; and
she and Hannah have been the best of
friends ever since.
	“I have inveriably found it the best way
to let the little ones settle their own diffi-
culties, if they can reasonably; and I never
interfere, unless highly necessary,
more than to advise.”
	The same teacher remarks that one day
she praised a bright, clean little face and
smoothly combed head, and told the owner
she wanted a kiss from such a tidy, sweet,
little boy, whenever he came to school in
the morning; and that afterwards she was
never troubled with dirty faces or un-
combed heads; or if one did happen to make
its appearance occasionally, all  the reproof
necessary was for her to say “I have no
kiss for you to-day.” That was better than
scolding.


