WOMAN’S VOICE.
			     —
  Under this heading we propose publishing
such communications, or extracts from them,
forwarded by ladies, as do not assume
the character of regular articles. Women
of Utah, speak for yourselves! 
  The following is from a private communi-
cation from an old friend, and a subscriber
to the EXPONENT.
  Seeing I am an old-fashioned piece of
goods I shall begin with an excuse. Can’t
you hear the miserable subterfuge—“I’ve


been to busy!” Bah! How I hate an ex- 
cuse! I very seldom believe the person who 
makes one, do you? I read somewhere, 
that “Excuses were lies,” and believe to 
some extent that it is true. The truth with
me is, I don’t like writing. The thought
of taking up a pen to write makes me shiver. 
How shall I get over this dislike? Can you 
tell me?	
  I like the EXPONENT so far very much; I
it tells of sound sense—which, you know, I I
like.	
   We “Mormon women” ought to write and 
tell the world—whether it is pleased to be-
lieve us or not—that we are not the poor, 
oppressed beings we are represented to be.  
I have lived in the great world, you know; 
I have lived here thirteen years, and I re- 
alize that I have not been oppressed here; 
but have been free to come, free to go, free 
to work or let it alone. I was not as free 
in England, nor in the States. I would not 
go to live in either place, or any where else
in preference to this free, wild, mountaineous 
country, with all its deficiencies.	
   Were I a ready writer I could illustrate 
some of the abuses thatsome women have
to put up with at the hands of the “lords of 
creation” in New York and London. In the 
latter place, when a girl of seventeen, I 
hired with a man and his wife to do house- 
work. I was not allowed to go out-side the
door, save once in six weeks from two in the 
afternoon until ten in the evening. When 
I did wrong I was reprimanded; and when I
I did right, the threat of sending me away 
without a character was kept as the sword 
hanging by a hair over my poor head. This 
kept me in subjection for three long years— 
the bitterest of my life. Yet my experience 
was nothing, compared with what many a I
wretched girl possessed of more meekness 
and less resolution than myself is compelled
to put up with, or starve, or do worse. In. 
New York, I went to get sewing to do, and
was treated shamefully by a man, or a being 
who styled himself such. Chicago was better 
to me. I liked that city the best of any I 
ever lived in. But there, men seemed to : 1
look upon woman as a mere plaything, to be
thrown away when they were tired of her. 
   Yet hear their cant and humbug about  
the “downtrodden women of Utah!”   O!  
but you know I hate writing!
				—			MARY.
  This comes from Goshen, dated June, 27:	
  I am glad that the ladies of Utah have 
the privilege of speaking for themselves. I 
have often wished that I might tell the na-  
tions of the earth they are deceived concern- 
ing us. And now, I will say, I am free;
that I know my friends around me are free; 
that the religion we have embraced makes 
us free, and gives us blessings and ad- 
vantages which are not enjoyed by women
elsewhere.						S. R.


