  FEBRUARY 11, 1872.

  'Tis hard to part with those we dearly love,
But parting comes to all.
					   No purer tie-
No holier sympathy warms human breast,
Than that of loving sisterhood, where heart
To heart is joined and interwoven with
A long, well tested and unbroken chain
Of mutual confidence—a confidence
Unstirred by envy, jealousy, or breach
Of sacred trust: Where the broad stream of thought
Flows unabridg'd: where each can think aloud.
Such was the love inspiring confidence,
Strengthened as years accumulated with
My sister and myself. Ours was the sweet
Reciprocation where each sentiment
Found safe repository—safe as heaven's
Eternal archives.
					   But my sister's gone!
I feared—I felt—I knew she soon would go,
But when beside her bed I watch'd, and saw
The last faint breath which fed the spring of life
Exhaled, it seemed frail nature's tend'rest cord
Was rent asunder, and a crushing sense
Of loneliness, like solitude's deep shade,
In that unguarded moment made me feel
As though the lights of earth had all gone out,
And left me desolate.
					 I knew't was false—
I knew that many noble, loving ones,
And true, remained; but none can fi’l
The vacant place—it is impossible;
Th' endearing ties we hold as saints of God,
The ties of consanguinity, secured
By sacred cov'nants which the Priesthood bind
On earth, and 't is recorded in the heavens,
We shall perpetuate beyond the grave;
Eternal union with the cherished ones
Will crown the glory of immortal lives.
  True love may multiply its object mosts
Extensively without diminishing
Its strength, but love accepts no substitute.
   When the fond mother lays her darling down
In death's cold, silent sleep, though others may
Be added to her arms, the vacancy
Remains until the resurrection shall
Give back her child.
						My sister faithfully
Life's changeful battle waged—her life was full
Of years—her years were fill'd with usefulness:
Her trust was in the living God, who hears
And speaks as He was wont to hear and speak.
She loved the Gospel and exemplified
It in her life. Her heart knew no deceit,
Her lips ne'er moved with fulsome flattery,
Her tongue with guile. Other positions of
Responsibility, as well as those
Of wife and mother she has nobly filled.
Her sun went down in peace.  For her death had
No sting—the grave will have no victory—
Her noble spirit lives and dwells above.
  The casket rests—The pure component part,
The' eternal portion of the human form,
In life combined with the gross element,
Sleeps in the bosom of our mother Earth,
Secure from nature's changing processes—
Despite decomposition's complex skill.
  But the gross, earthly substance, that which is
Both tangible to mortal sight and touch—
Formed with affinities that downward tend
Strength'ning our hold on this our lower life,
Clinging to earth as like adheres to like
This, soon as life becomes extinct, by dint
Of one of nature's fundamental laws,
The law of restitution, has commenced,
And separates till all is disengaged—
Till every particle shall be restored
Back to its native element, to be
Transformed in infinite varieties
To new creations and in other forms—
Through every grade of life and being here,
From earth and herbage up to brute and man—
From land to land—from clime to clime transferred;
Leaving the pure unchanging element
( When all that is corruptible has been
Dissolved and passed away) to rest—to sleep
Until the glorious resurrection morn.
And then come forth in triumph from the tomb
And clothe the spirit with immortal bloom.
  Adieu my sister, we shall meet again,
And live on earth when Jesus Christ shall reign.
