   WHY WOMEN SHOULD VOTE.

	While many women care nothing about the
ballot or politics, and would avert the trouble
of voting were the right granted to them with-
out their asking for it; others have formed
themselves into serried bodies of contending,
pugnacious clamorers, whose vociferations are
difficult to be traced or understood. Yet it is
supposable that they think, by the purveyance
of the power to vote for those they believe most
worthy and best calculated to be placed as dic-
tators and rulers over the people, they should
be able to render that purgation to the world
which is so manifestly necessary.
	But were that power which they so enthusi-
asticly claim the right to possess, bestowed up-
on them, how many would be truly efficient to
wield it in the proper channel? Not that wo-
men have less than men of the natural endow-
ments requsite for forming a clear and irrepre-
hensible judgment; but they have not culti-
vated those faculties. Their attention has been
given to other things; and they are, therefore,
unqualified, the majority of them, to act wisely
in the capacity they so earnestly seek.
	That men abuse the powers they hold, is not
an evidence that women would not use those
powers in an empirical manner if permitted to
use them at all. The fact that the motives of
women are purer, their sentiments more re-
fined and elevated than those of men, should be
sufficient testimony that the right of suffrage
ought to be conceded to them. Not that they
may teach men wisdom by their superior intel-
ligence, but that they may exert their more
beneficient and chaste influences in endeavor-
ing to purify the social atmosphere.


﻿IT is believed that Texas alone, will
within a comparatively few years produce
a larger quantity of the great agricultural
staples than are now produced in all the
other States of the Union.


﻿Study contentment. In these days of in-
ordinate greed and self-indulgence, keep
down the accursed spirit of grasping. What
they don’t have makes thousands wretched.


