HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
				
  POLITENESS IS contagious, and a kind
word, a gracious smile, and a delicate tact
to make sunshine in the heart, are felt and
will have their influence over the conduct and
character of others, which is secretly inspir-
ing them with a love for virtue. A lady
never appears to so much advantage as when
doing the honors of her home. There she
has opportunity for the full development of
her character and. a display of the charms
which are truly her highest ornaments. The
care of an accomplished and well-bred wo-
man will so regulate an establishment, that
visitors may at any time be received with-
out apologies.
  COUNTERPANES THAT are neat and light,
and easy to wash, can be made in this way:
Take new cotton cloth; make it longer than
a sheet, and if for a wide bed, two breadths
and a half; before being wet, draw in candle-
wick, in diamonds of about a finger apart,
and cut off to leave ends on the out side
about half an inch long; then wash and
bleach them, and they are durable and look
very tidy. One can be made in a day and a
half or two days with a needle that has a
very large eye, like the packing needle.
Draw the wick in double, and if done true
the diamond will be formed.
  NITRE MOISTENED with water is said to be
an excelled wash to remove freckles from
the skin.
  DISSOLVE, FOR fruit cream, half an ounce
of isinglass in warm water enough to cover
it; add to this a pint of cream, .sweetened
with four spoonfuls of sugar, and boil it.
When cool, lay some apricot, raspberry or
peach preserves in a glass dish and pour the
cream over it.
  STRONG ALUM water, often applied, is a
great enemy to warts, and seldom fails to
drive them away without danger or damage
to the afllicted party. To cut or pick a wart
until it bleeds freely, and then put on it a
little quick lime is a sure cure, and not
painful as one would think who had not
tried it.
  ANY HARD, steel tool will cut glass with
great facility when kept freely wet with
camphor dissolved in turpentine. -The rag-
ged edges of glass vessels may also be thus
easily smoothed by a flat file.
  TO MAKE hard gingerbred, take one quart
of molasses, two cupfuls of sugar, three
quarters of a pound of butter and lard, one
cupful of ginger, a teaspoonful of black pep-
[next column]
per and a tablespoonful of cloves, cinnamon
and allspice.
  DURABLE WHITEWASH. —Whitewashed
walls will not rub off if the lime is thus pre-
pared: Mix half a pailful of lime and water;
take half a pint of flour, make a starch of it,
and pour it hot into the whitewash; stir it
well, and add a little salt.
  JELLY.—To make a quart, soak one oz. of
gelatine in a pint of cold water for twenty
minutes, then add the same quantity of
boiling water, stir until dissolved; add the
juice and peel of two lemons, with enough
sugar to sweeten; have ready, well beaten,
the white and shell of one egg stir these
briskly into the jelley, then boil for two
minutes without stirring it; remove it from
the fire, and allow it to stand two minutes,
then strain through a close flannel bag;
this jelly may be flavored or colored
according to taste.
   COTTAGE PUDDING.—Warm two and a
half tablespoonsful of butler, stir in a teacup
of white sugar and two eggs. Put two tea-
spoonsful of cream tartar in one pint of flour,
add a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cup
of milk; flavor with lemon or vanilla. Bake
three-quarters of an hour in a moderate
oven, and serve hot with rich hot sauce.
  MORNING BISCUITS.—One quart of flour,
half a teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonsful
of yeast, and one pint of sour milk, with
half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it.
Work this into a dough; then rub into the
dough half a cup of butter. Knead well; cut
off some bits; shape them into biscuits; lay
them in the bake pan, cover closely with a
broadcloth, and let them stand over night,in a
warm place in the Winter, and a cold place
in the Summer. Bake in the morning for
breakfast.
  BREAD PUDDING.—One pint of fine bread
crumbs, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonsful
of molasses, half a pound of suet chopped
fine, one coffee-cup of raisins, half a rind of
preserved orange-peel or citron cut thin and
fine, very little nutmeg and cinnamon, two
teaspoonsful cream tartar, one small tea-
spoonful soda, one teaspoonful of salt. Stir
in milk enough to make it thick as pound-
cake; beating all thoroughly together; put it
into a buttered pudding mould, and boil
three hours. Be careful to keep the water
boiling all the time.
		————————


﻿“MUST I pray too, mother?” asked a two
year old boy, with flaxen hair, and mild
blue eyes, as the family were called together
for morning prayers. “Yes, dear, of course
you must,” answered his mother. “What
shall I pray for?” continued the little quer-
ist. “For whatever you want most,” was
the response; and while his father was offer-
ing up his prayer, the little fellow was over-
heard to whisper loudly hut reverently,
“Pray, Father, give me some candy! Pray,
O, Father, give me some candy!”  It is
needless to say that the innocent and sweet
petition was heard and promptly answered.


