FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.
			    —
 Whatever purifies also fortifies the heart.
 Charity is an eternal debt, and without
limit.
 A beautiful external life symbolizes a
beautiful soul.
 It is easier to be wise for others than for
ourselves, yet such wisdom is wasted.
 Eagerness to grasp, often strangles and
destroys pleasure.
 Innocence confers freedom to the mind,
and leaves it open to every pleasing sensa-
tion.
  “Errors, like straw, upon the surface flow;
but he who seeks for pearls must dive be-
low.”
  The chief misfortunes in life can be traced
to some vices or follies committed by the
sufferers.
 The spirit of love, like the fragrance of
flowers, may be inhaled while the object is
out of sight.
  The veil which covers from our sight the
events of succeeding years, is woven by the
hand of mercy.
  The most forlorn and helpless sinner was
once an innocent child, possessed of untold
possibilities of good.
  Whatever useful or engaging endowments
we possess, virtue is requisite to their shin-
ing with proper lustre.
  Diligence, industry and a proper im-
provement of time, will never fail of gain-
ing great and just rewards.
  The desire to improve denotes a liberal'
mind, and is connected with many accom-
plishments and many virtues.
 They who have nothing to give but sym-
pathy can often afford relief by imparting
what they feel.
 It is as difficult for revenge to act without
exciting suspicion, as for a rattlesnake to
stir without making a noise.
  Many mistake the admiration for the
practice of virtue, and are not so much good
friends as the friends of goodness.
  Restraint is the golden rule of enjoyment;
we appreciate no pleasures properly, unless
occasionally debarred from them.
  A temperate spirit and moderate expecta-
tions are excellent safeguards of the mind
in this uncertain and changing world.
  In the darkest night there still is light in
the sky somewhere shining up from the
sun or coming down from the distant stars.
  There is nothing except simplicity of in-
tention and purity of principle that can
stand the test of near approach and strict
examination.
  Mere intellectual acuteness, if divested,
as it often is, of all that is comprehensive of
goodness, is more revolting than the most
helpless imbecility.
  The.best preparation for all the uncertain-
ties of futurity, consists in a well-ordered
mind, a clear conscience, and a cheerful sub-
mission to the will of Heaven. 
  To be wise in our own eyes, to be wise in
the opinion of the world, and to be wise in
the sight of our Creator, are three things so
very different as rarely to come together.
  If you take a great deal of pains to serve
and benefit your fellow creatures, and after
all they scarcely thank you for the trouble
you have taken, do not be angry and make
a loud noise about the world’s ingratitude;
for then it would seem that you cared
more about the thanks than the blessings
you sought to bestow.


