F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.

	Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, of Ogden, continues
to manifest a lively interest in our journal,
to which she politely forwards the following
synopsis of the report of a meeting held by
the F. R. Society of that city, on the 27th of
June:
   “We were much pleased and gratified to
have the company of sisters Eliza R. Snow,
Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith and
sister Horne, from Salt Lake City, at our
meeting. The President being absent, her
Counselors, Mrs Martha Bingham and Mrs.
Sarah Herrick, took charge of the meeting,
which was opened by some excellent sing-
ing followed with prayer by Mrs. A. M.
Frodsham; and singing again. The meet-
ing was addressed by sisters Z. D. Young,
B. W. Smith and I. Horne, who gave some
excellent counsel and words of encourage-
ment; after which sister E. R. Snow said:
We are all engaged in one great work, the
redemption of mankind. In this work wo-
man hikes a most important part. Upon her
rests the responsibilty, in a great measure,
of giving character to all societies; and this
is for each one of us. God is giving us
opportunities to prove ourselves here. It is
essential that we work for our dead. Work
seems to be the watchword of this genera-
tion. The training of our children is one of
the most weighty duties we have to per-
form; to teach them the difference between
right and wrong, between good and evil in
all respects, so far as we have learned our-
selves to comprehend. She closed by invok-
ing the blessing of God upon those present.
	Sister Richards briefly expressed her feel-
ings, saying she had been much interested
and edified. Donations were taken for the
emigration of the poor to the amount of
sixty-eight dollbrs and some cents, and more
will be collected, it is presumed, to make as
much as $100.”

	Of the Third Ward F.R. Society, of Provo,
we receive a brief but pleasant account from
Mrs. M. John, Secretary.
	A meeting was held on the 6th of June
at the house of Mrs. Tanner, President of
the Society.  A long and severe illness had
prevented Mrs. Tanner’s meeting with the
Society for a length of time. General satis-
faction was expressed by the sisters present,
that her life had been spared and her health
improved so that she could again be able to
meet with them; and she expressed herself
as being truly thankful to God for His good-
ness, and to the brethren and sisters for
their faith and prayers, which had been ex-
ercised in her behalf. The Society seems to
be in a very flourishing condition, Mrs.
John concluding: "Happy to say there are
none needing assistance in the Ward at
present."

	The following from Mrs. Elmira S. Taylor,
Secretary of the 14th Ward F. R. Society of
this city, is brief but comprehensive:
	I send you a brief report of a meeting of the
F. R. Society of the14th Ward, held in the
Society Hall, June 26th. We were favored
with the presence of our Bishop, Brother
Thomas Taylor, who gave us some excellent
instructions, and whose remarks were most
encouraging. He said  he was one with the
Society, that he highly appreciated their
efforts, and would do all in his power to
enable them to carry on their laudable work.
	Sisters E.R. Snow, Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sarah Richards were also present, and
gave much wise and good counsel.
	There are many poor in the Ward who
are assisted by the Society.  The attendance
at meetings is small, but those who do at-
[new column]
tend are energetic and faithful, and feel
blest in the discharge of their duties. Too
much praise cannot be accorded to our
President, Mrs. I. Horne, as she is most in-
defatigable in her efforts to advance the
interests of the Society, and ameliorate the
condition of the poor.

	From Mrs. A. S. Rogers, Secretary of the
F. R. Society of Farmington, we receive a
pleasant report of the fourth annnal meeting
of that Society, held June 19th. Much
valuable instruction was given, and great
satisfaction expressed for the progress the
Society has made, by those who addressed
the meeting, namely; Sisters E. R. Snow,
P. L. Kimball and Z. D. Young, from Salt
Lake City, Elders Arthur Stayner, Job
Welling, Hector Haight, Ezra Clark, John
Tibbits, and the President, Mrs. S. J.
Holmes.
	The financial report shows that since the
organization of the Society $822.85 has been
taken in; $348.85 given to the poor, and
$181.84 donated for public purposes; leaving
a handsome balance in the Treasury.


