HOW TO GET AN ORCHARD.
			 	     —
	After selecting the ground for an orchard;
go to work and dig and haul the stone and
stumps from it. Plough deep and level the
land off, and you are ready for your fence.
Put on a good, substantial fence, that will
not admit any creatures only by the way of
the gate or bars, and always keep the fence
in good repair, and suffer no cattle to enter
the enclosure, only for the purpose of labor.
This fence built you will plough your ground
again, and harrow and work in manure to
your liking. Sow your ground and seed
down the same. Pick up all the stones and
sticks that lie on top of the ground, and
take them away so that it will leave a
smooth surface.
	Select the best trees you can find; those
that are young, straight and sound. When
you take them up be careful and do not
break any of the roots, for they have none
to part with. When set they want to be so
near each other that they will shade the
ground well. When it is necessary to cut
limbs, cut them when small. Let the lower
limbs be so high from the ground that a tall
man can pass under them and not hit his
beaver. When you prune, be careful and
let no two limbs in the top chafe each other;
cut off one of the two.
	Now for the management of the ground.
You must keep all ploughs and hogs’ snouts
out of the surface of the ground of your
orchard. I know most every one says (and
practices) ploughing, sowing, mowing, and
hauling crops out of their orchard, but I say
it is a bad practice. Let the crop of grass go
back into the ground every year, and that
will keep the ground mellow and rich, and
will protect the roots of the trees from the
droughts of the season and the cold chills of
the fall and spring, and also help to keep
them warm, rugged, and healthy. By so
doing, they will bear well and live long.
You want your ground in a condition that
will bear thirty or forty hundreds to the acre.
[?—Ed.]	Just before you gather your ap-
ples, you can cut the grass down and spread
it, or you can roll it down, just as you please,
so that it will be smooth to pick up your ap-
ples. If you think more nutriment to the
trees is wanted, you can haul and spread
manure on the ground, but do not allow the
surface of your orchard soil to be broken, or
any crops to be taken from it.
	If you should want a wash for your trees
at any time, first scrape the trunks, and
then put on fish oil. This is the best wash
that can be found.
	Our orchards are all dying out, and what
is the cause? It is owing to their treat-
ment, as I have before said; ploughing up
and cutting off the roots, exposing them to
sudden hard droughts and severe frosts, and
robbing them of nutriment which tends to
impoverish and disorder them, and brings
on decay and short life. Feed and clothe
the trees well, and keep them warm, and
you will do this by not breaking the surface
of the soil or taking the foliage away.—
"Maine Famer."


GOOD ADVICE.—Don’t be discouraged if
occasionally you slip down by the way, and
others tread on you a little. In other words,
don’t let a failure or two dishearten you; ac-
cidents will happen, miscalculations will
sometimes be made, things will turn out
different to our expectations, and we may
be sufferers. It is worth while to remember
that fortune is like the skies of April, some-
times cloudy, and sometimes clear and
favorable.


﻿Olive Logan’s new lecture for the coming
season is on “Successful People.”


