FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.
				—
	Truth needs no flower of speech. 
	True dignity never descends to a mean
action.
	Sensitive hearts may suffer most, but the
wisest are the happiest.
	Kind words are like delicious perfumes;
generous actions like a rich and wholesome
repast.
	As iron is most strongly united by the
fiercest flame, so the firmest friendship is
often formed in mutual adversity.
	Make your friends well pleased with
themselves, and you need have no fears but
they will feel kindly toward you.
	Politeness never calls for a sacrifice of a
single principle of truth, sincerity or honor;
but grows out of the purest benevolence.
	A tried and proved character for truth,
honor and honesty, is the best capital in the
long run, and gives the largest interest.
	Professions of propriety may win the
flattery of the unwary, but the friendship of
the wise is only gained by the practice of
principles.
	To “make the best of it” is one way of
going through the world; to “make the
worst of it” is another. The latter course
is working hard for poor pay.
	The blossom cannot tell what becomes of
its odor, nor man what becomes of his in-
fluence and examples, as they roll away be-
yond his ken, on their perilous mission.
	“Who noble ends by noble means obtains,
or failing smiles in exile or in chains, like
good Aurelius let him reign, or bleed like
Socrates, that man is GREAT INDEED.”
	The external misfortunes of life, disap-
pointments, poverty and sickness, are light
in comparison to those inward distresses of
mind occasioned by folly, passion and
guilt.
	When upon rational and sober enquiry
we have established our principles, let us
not suffer them to be shaken by the scoffs
of the licentious or the cavils of the scepti-
cal.
	Memory presides over the past, action
over the present. The first is a rich temple
hung with glorious trophies, and lined with
tombs; the other should have no shrine but
duty.
	Recreation is to the mind what whetting is
to the scythe—it sharpens the edge, which
would otherwise grow dull and blunt; but
constant whetting wears the edge entirely
away.
	To tell your own secrets is generally folly,
but the folly is without guilt; to communi-
cate those with which we are entrusted is
always treachery, for the most part com-
bined with folly.
The only way to meet affliction is to pass
through it solemnly, slowly, with humanity
and faith, as the Israelites passed through
the sea. Then its very waves of misery
will divide, and become to us a wall on the
right side and on the left, until the gulf
narrows before our eyes, and we land safe
on the opposite shore.
	Flowers are the delight of childhood and
a pleasure in old age. They typify all that
is beautiful in sentiment, and the language
they express is emblematical of the tenderest
thoughts and feelings of men. Romance and
poetry are blended with their history. How
many a faded violet there has been and is
now, yellow and discolored with age, whose
withered leaves tell the story of a human
heart more eloquently than human language
can express!


