 SALT LAKE.	
		
  When ca led upon, in such a kindly way,
We, from our heart, a few good things can say:
'Tis good to be a Saint of God, and live  
In the pure light His loving mercies give; 
'Tis good to gather at a time like this,
And yield awhile to animated bliss;
'Tis good to mark the change which now appears,
Among the Saints in five and twenty years. 

They came to Utah—came with heart and mind
Giv’n to their God. and to His will resigned;
They settled here—’t has oft been sta ed how,
We know the difference ’tween then and now.
Good is the picture illustration paints
Of God's protection to His faithful Saints;
How, ’mid privations stern, and trying toil.
He blest their labors, blest the seed and soil.

  'Tis good for us to know the Gospel Truth,
Which brightly beams upon us in our youth;
And that our patients have that faith embraced, 
Which will unite the humble, pure and chaste;
And banish all who love, and revel in
The ways of vice, licentiousness and sin:
And it is good that we need not disguise,
The holy feelings which -such thing's despise.

  We may and do.despise the seeming man,
Who seeks to baffle the Almighty’s plan;
Which is to save, exalt and elevate.
Woman, with man, made noble, wise and great:
We cannot, in false friendship, seem to clothe
The dread we bear for deeds we justly loathe!
Yet with compassion’s voice would fain recall,
Vice’s wretched dupes who gaze, and yield and fall!

  We know that we are free—our freedom gives
That confidence, for which proud woman lives;
For we have pride, not that which fumes and flaunts
O’er fashion’s follies and her favorite haunts; 
But ignorance and fripp’ry thrown aside,
True dignity and virtue are our pride;
Our motto Honor, Truth our whole defense,
Our aim to perfect rich intelligence.

  Hence, we regard those who are Saints indeed,
A[-] having right our youthful steps to lead; 
And never to ought else may we submit,
Or in the least descend to follow it.
We feel that we are safe, while being led
By trusty followers of our lawful Head;
And, sooner wou'd we all unite to-day
With one GOOD MAN than one be led astray.

   Not lacking charity, would gladly see,
All mortals healthy, happy, blessed as we;.
Possessing, morals which alone can make 
The sweetest joys of which mankind partake:.
Grateful to God for His parental care,
Anxious that all the same good gifts should share;
And closely follow where our helmsman steers,
To lives Eternal in Celestial spheres.

   Ere we conclude, we wish to humbly pay,
A generous tribute to the passing day; 
Oft clothed in gladness may it reappear,
Still, to the Saints held sacred, sweet and dear,
And crown anew, with love and peace each year,
The home of every good, brave Pioneer;	
Their friends, their neighbors, kindred great and small,
Wives, sons and daughters, Heaven, bless them all!
				—
			    SONG.
				—
  The object of Retrenchment, for us, 1$:
	Not to sit us down in sadness,
	  With our faces grim and long;
	Not to chase the smile of gladness,
	  Not to hush the voice of song.
	Not to miss one pure, true pleasure,
	 Worthy space in heart or brain;
	Not to lose a single treasure—'
	 But a precious store td gain.

	Ladies, who o'er idle fashions,
	  Waste their time and strength and thought,
	Feeding vain and selfish passions,
	  'While their lives amount to nought;
	Know not of the untold sweetness
	   Wrought for those who cultivate,
	Powers of worth which in completeness,
	   Ev’ry virtue will create.	

	Scoffers laugh and mock their plainness.
	  Casting slurs and jeers thereat;
	Pause they for the worlds insaneness?
	  No, they have not time for that;
[new column]

	'Tis enough they fill their missions,
	   Fraught with noble womanhoos;
	Wake their souls and dispositions,
	   Sweet and rich and pure and good.

	Ot to think that f shion's bubbles,
	  From one care could set us free,
	Is, like courting causeless roubles,
	   Nonsense to the first degree:
	Let no honest mind be darkened,
	   Future scenes will shortly prove
	Who to wisdom's voice hath hearkened,
	  Aided every godlike move.


________________
	﻿F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			  —
  The Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Assocl
ation of the Eleventh Ward, of this city,
held a highly creditable meeting on Thurs-
day, ‘July- 18th. After singing and prayer,
articles from the Bible, Book of Mormon
“Millennial Star” and other works were
read, by officers and members of the Associ-
ation, “Selfishness” was the subject chosen
at the meeting previous, to be spoken upon
Many animated and instructive remarks
were made, and rich hints given upon that
topicand others. The genuine spirit of
purity and freedom which pervaded the
meeting, seemed to render all present joy-
ous and happy. The manner in which those
meetings, held every Thursday afternoon,
are conducted and attended, is very com-
mendable, both to the President Mrs. Mary
Freeze, and the members of the Society.
				—
  Mrs. Amelia, M. Frodsham writes from
Ogden City July 20th, 1872: The Sisters
came over from Lynne and Marriott settle-
ments, both belonging to one precinct, and
asked of and were granted by Bro. F.D.
Richards, the privilege of holding a two
days' Conference of the F. R. Society, when
they issued invitations to some of the Ogden
Sisters. I, for one can testify  the two days'
meeting, and to me it is a testimony that
the formation of the Society is of God. 
	The Conference convened the first day,
July 16th, at Lynne; Sister Ann Becking-
ton, President of the joint Society of Lynne
and Marriott settlements, presiding. Sisters
present from Ogden, President Mrs. Harriet
Brown, Secretary Mrs. A. M. Frodsham,
Treasurer Miss Rosalthie Canfield, Sisters
Jane Richards, Maria Ballantyne, Eveline
Farley and others. Meeting opened with
singing, and prayer by Mrs. M. Ballantyne.
Minutes read by Mrs. Perry, Secretary.
President Mrs. Beckington spoke, welcom-
ing the Sisters from Ogden, and stating that
they had collected, in the Society $100 for
the Emigration Fund. During the forenoon
meeting, addresses were made by Sister
A. M. Frodsham, President H. Brown,
Sisters J. Richards and M. Ballantyne from
Ogden; and Sister Tracy, of Lynne. All
felt well and bore faithful testimonies to the
truth of the Latter-day work, and the good-
ness of God to His children. The meeting
closed with singing, and prayer by Mrs.
Tracy. 
  Met again at 2 p.m. Called to order;
singing; prayer by President Mrs. Becking-
ton; singing by the Scandinavian  Sisters in
their own tongue. 
	Elders F. D. Richards, Herricks and Farr
were expected at the meeting, but as they
did not arrive President Mrs. Beckington
called on the Sisters belonging to her Society
to speak. The Scandinavian Sisters bore
their testimonies, and instructing and en-
couraging remarks were made by Sister
Bingham and several others.  "The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning" was sung.
Other remarks followed, and the meeting
adjourned to meet to-morrow at 10 a.m., at
Marriott settlement. 
[new column]
	Dismissed with singing, and prayer by
President Mrs. Brown.
	At 10 a.m., July 17, Conference convened,
pursuant to adjournment, in the school
house at Marriott settlement; Sister Beck-
ington presiding.  Singing; prayer by Sister
Ballantyne; singing by the Scandinavian
Sisters in their own tongue; minutes read
and approved. Sisters Beckington, Ballan-
tyne and Frodsham made remarks. Miss
R. Canfield read a report of the Ogden
Society, from the EXPONENT, and after-
ward addressed the meeting.  She was fol-
lowed by Mrs. Jane Richards, Mrs Emily
Richards, Miss J. Richards and President
Mrs. Beckington.  After which the meeting
adjourned until 2 p.m.  Prayer by Mrs. 
Frodsham. 
	At 2 p.m., the Conference again con-
vened.  Meeting opened with singing;
prayer by Mrs. Hannah Baird; singing by
the Scandinavian Sisters.  Speakers: Sisters
Beckington, Baird and Cordon.
    At about 3 o'clock, Elder Richards arrived.
He stated that he had been detained by the
fire in Ogden.  He felt very much pleased
to see the deep interest manifested by the
Sisters in seeking to do good; they are not
sent abroad to the world, but have missions
at home which are great and responsible.
Sending for the poor is the beginning of
their redemption.
   Elder Harrison spoke a short time.
   It was then moved, seconded and carried
that Mrs. A. M. Frodsham send a report of
this Conference to the "EXPONENT."
  Conference adjourned "sine die."
  Benediction by Elder Marriott.
  The very interesting and beneficial, two 
days' meeting, of which the foregoing is a
brief  synopsis, was inaugerated and con-
ducted by Sisters Beckington, Tracy, Baird
and Parry, of Lynne and Marriott settle-
ments. 
			___
	The following is from Mrs. Maria Parkin-
son, of Wellsville, Cache County, under date
July 25th:
  This branch of the Female Relief Society
is in a very healthy condition.  After de-
ducting $102.05 for the relief of the poor for
the year, we have on hand $352.23. We have
also donated $50 to the P.E. Fund.  When
the fact that for the last six years we have
had the terrible plague of grasshoppers to
contend with is taken into consideration, we
think we have done well.  Our efforts have
been blessed; the poor have been comforted,
and the labors of our Bishop greatly relieved.
It is a labor of love on which our Father in
heaven smiles approvingly.


﻿PROVIDENCE MADE both tear and  laugh-
ter, and both for kind purposes; for .as laugh-
ter enables mirth and surprise to breathe
freely, so tears enable sorrow to vent Itself
patiently. Tears hinder sorrow from be-
coming despair and madness; and laughter
is one of the very highest privileges’of. rea-
son, being confined to the human species.


﻿“MADAM,” SAID a husband to his young
wife in a little altercation which will spring
up in the best regulated families, “when a
man,and his wife, have quarreled and .each
considers the other at fault, which of the
two ought to advance towards reconcilia-
tion?”  “The best natured, and wiser of
the two,” said the. wife, putting up her
mouth for a kiss which was given with
unction.


The Baroness Nathaniel de Rothschild is
an industrious and accomplished artist.


