ABOUT WOMEN.
				   —
	A Georgia lady has woven a balmoral out
of the hair of a rabbit 
	DOUGLASS Jerrold said; “Eve ate the
apple that she might indulge in dress”.
	MRS. DR. Tarr takes the place of her hus-
band, recently deceased, as editor of the
Denton (Md.) “Journal.”
	A BUFFALO woman has raised  $2,500
worth of strawberries, this year, from two
acres of ground.
	MRS. Tupper of Des Moines has been
made professor of apiarian science in the
Iowa Agricultural College.
	A YOUNG lady in Ohio, Maggie Reid by
name, has distinguished herself as a model
farmer.  There is some sense in that.
	IN Indiana women plow, plant, hoe and
harvest, preach and chop their own wood.
What do the men busy themselves with?
	THE Michigan State Woman Suffrage
Association has raised six hundred dollars,
and its Secretary, Mrs. M. Victor, is in the
field as a lecturer.
	MISS Foley, an American sculptor at Rome
has been about the most successful artist in
the Holy City, during the past season. Most
of her work has gone to England.
	A TENNESSEE girl broke an arm on the
eve of her wedding day, but pluckily went 
through the ceremony with her arm in a
sling at the appointed hour.
	MISS Eliza Hete, of Cumberland, Md., 23
years of age, who lost the power of speech
five years since by the effects of a cold, and
had tried the best medical skill in vain,
suddenly found her voice restored Sunday
while humming a hymn tune sung by the
choir at the service.
	MRS. Somerville, the well-known author-
ess of the “Connection of Physical Sciences.”
now in her ninety-second year, was present
and saw the late eruption of Vesuvius.
	A CALIFORNIA paper reports that a hotel
chamber-maid laid aside her broom a few
days ago, and calling for a settlement, told
her employer she had been dabbling in
stocks for a year or more, and had something
more than $200,000 as the result.
	A GENTLEMAN, recently married in
Chicago, presented his bride at the wedding
with the original transcript of one of the
first dispatches ever sent over the first tele-
graph line, from Baltimore to Washington.
It was the announcement to the lady’s
grandmother of her birth, and read, “Only
a girl.”
	THE annual commencement of Wesleyan
Female College, Wilmington, took place on
June 20. Nine young ladies were gradu-
ated, among whom only Miss Pickles, Miss
Huntzinger, and Miss Housten took the full
collegiate course. The Baccalaureate, by
President Wilson, was a frank and honest
production, and very much in keeping with
the circumstances. The degree of A. M.
was conferred in course upon Miss Walters,
of Media, and Miss Galliner, of Philadel-
phia.
	THE Philadelphia Board of Education
have lately had under consideration a mo-
tion to strike out of their by-laws the rule that,
“no female teacher shall be elected to the
position of principal to a male grammar
school.” It was argued that a woman who
had the learning, strength and capacity to
teach, is as capable of filling this position as
a man, and that this is proved by the fact that
they do fill satisfactorily most, if not all the
subordinate places as teachers and assistant
teachers.


