ABOUT WOMEN.
			   —
  UPWARD of sixteen American widows are
sojourning at Dresden.
  LADIES are being admitted to the practice
of dentistry in Germany.
  LADY Beaconslield, Disraeli’s wife, is ill
beyond hope of recovery!
  THE ladies of Paris, Ky., are forming an
anti-speak-evil-of-your-neighber society.
  A BLIND woman in Iowa has learned to
thread a cambric needle with her teeth and
tongue.
  THE wickedest woman in Boston is named
Jemima Jakes. She claims to have yanked
fifty husbands from the domestic hearth.
  THE eye of a good mother is like the sun;
it shines on a world that weuld be dark
without, and its brightness is that of love.
  THE fees of a Wyoming paper for mar-
riage notices are “as high as the ecstacy and
liberality of the bridegroom may prompt.
  THE stillborn daughter of Mrs. Bates, the
Nova Scotia giantess, was twenty-eight
inches long, and weighed eighteeen pounds.
  THE citizens at Battle Creek, Mich., have
rewarded Miss Emma Pearl, of that city,
with a fine gold watch, for taking care of a
small-pox afllicted family.
  AT Coburg it is believed that Queen Vic-
toria will abdicate at an early day, and then
pass the remainder of her life at Castle
Kosenau, where Prince Albert was educated.
  THE Berger sisters may be numbered
among the very few women that appear on
the stage at the present day, who earn the
money and the applause which they re-
ceive.
  MRS. Edmund Dexter, who created a
furore at the St. Louis Saengerfest, is a Cin-
cinnati brunette, of self-possession, embon-
point, and pleasant presence—a light edition
of Parepa.
  SOME of the young Quakeresses, who were
dressed in modern style, were admonished
by the venerable Lucretia Mott, at a recent
meeting, to beware of the follies of fashion
and dress in becoming simplicity and dig-
nity.
  BARBARA Ubryk, the story of whose
long imprisonment as a nun attracted so
much attention a few years ago, has now re-
covered from her severe and protracted suf-
ferings, and is living quietly and happily at
Cracow.
  NO wonder the fair sex disliked Dr. John-
son when he said: People flock to hear a
woman preach, not because she preaches
well, but because she preaches anyhow.
Just as they go to see a dog walk on his
hind legs, though he does not walk on them
nearly so well as a man.
  THE women of Damascus, Illinois, take
part in the discussion of the farmers’ club
meeting. A recent conundrum was: “Shall
we dress for comfort or show?” It was, of
course, decided to dress for comfort, and
then they all went away, and at the next
meeting each appeared with a “three-
decker” head-dress and a “Dolly Varden”
suit.
  A FASHION reporter describes some of
the toilets at a recent party at Cheyenne:
“The belle of the evening was Miss W. She
dressed faultlessly in a linsey-woolsey of the
palest shade of ‘cafe au lait,’ cut ‘entrain’
and trimmed with Chicago relics. Miss H.
wore a ‘polonaise’ made of blue jeans,
postilioned in the back, cut ‘vis-a-vis’ with
a ‘detree’ bias, and gored in the most san-
guinary manner. She wore no jewel but
consistency.”


