SPLINTERS.

	London has four thousand miles of streets.
.........Harvesting is about over in Virginia...
Twenty ocean steamships now ply between
New Orleans and Europe......On the first
day of July, the women of Illinois were
made eligible to hold appointive offices in
that State.....The Press Association in Lon-
don are disputing as to which first sent to
America the news of the result of the late
boating contest......The strikers in New
York have cut down the building going on
there nearly one-half, as compared with last
year......The Woman Suffragists of Missouri
are a unit for Grant and Wilson........A wood-
en water pipe factory is to be started in
Salem.......The Caledonian Society in Lon-
don gets up fancy balls in which some of
the guests attire themselves to represent
the ancient Picts and Scots......Gen. Grant
has placed in office twenty-three blood rela-
tives and eighteen who are relatives by
marriage......The woman movement has not
sensibly modified the social atmosphere of
St. Louis.......General Porter will shortly
make public a list of Democrats who are
going to stump for Grant......A Catacazy
pamphlet is published at Long Branch, in
which the ex-Minister endeavors to vindi-
cate himself from charges brought against
him by Sectretry Fish, and says he was not
dismissed from his position, but relieved at
his own request........The yacht “Josephine”
recently capsized in a gale, off Bedhoes’
Island, and sank; passengers and crew were
saved.........A Boston special has not the
slightest doubt that General Banks has de-
termined to abandon the administration
and array himself on the side of the Democ-
racy.......The first success of the Woman
Suffrage movement in England is said to
be the result of a surprise, being earned
through Parliament before conservative
people got their eyes open......A writer
from St. Louis says, that city confidently
expects to become the capital of the United
States and to supersede Boston as the hub
of the universe.......Ladies are to be admitted
to the Young Men’s Christian Union, of
Chicago, and the name is to be changed to
the Christian Union.....Ladies in square
cut bodices are not admitted to Queen Vic-
toria’s drawing rooms......The Board of Vis-
itors, at West Point, in their annual report,
animadvert severely upon many things
about the academy.....Six Chinamen were
killed and two others severely wounded, a
few days since, by the explosion of a blast,
on the new road between Carson and Reno.
........An extensive coal bed is being de-
veloped on Reynolds’ Creek, near Cabbing-
ton’s, Idaho.......It is reported that A. T.
Stewart has given $30,000 to aid in the
election of Greeley.......At an influential
meeting of English Catholics, in London,
the action against the Pope, of the Italian
Government, and the new German law pro-
scribing the Jesuits, were condemned.......A
school house in Copenhagen, Denmark, is
furnished for one thousand children......One
of the rumors concerning the shooting of
McMullin is, that it grew out of some diffi-
culty in the Moyamensing Association.......
A number of Roman coins have recently
been found in Wales.....For a poem of 1,-
500 lines, the “Overland Monthly” pays
Joaquin Miller $2,000.......Romeo, the big
elephant, died lately from the effects of an
operation to cure his diseased leg......Nearly
200 cases of sunstroke occurred in one day
of July, in New York, of which sixty were
fatal...Two Japanese youngsters are being
educated at Forest Grove university, Oregon.
......The “Lady Elgin” is the name of a
neat little journal published by the ladies of
[new column]
the Elgin Watch manufactory........A $44,-
000 Court house is to be erected this season
at Modesta......The question of the succes-
sion to the Turkish throne, still creates
much excitement in Turkey.......A Salem,
Massachusetts paper says, General Grant’s
greatest fault is that he stands in the way of
so many candidates to the Presidency......
The Gerke vineyard in Tahama County,
California, covers an area of 150 acres, all in
a full state of cultivation.......Mr. M. G. Up-
ton, leading editor of the “Alta California”
for ten years, has retired, and Mr. Frank
Soule succeeds him.......Fans made of the
scales of fish have been introduced and will,
doubtless, soon be very popular......Billy
Edwards, the light-weight champion, and
Batt Mullins, an English bruiser, have been
matched for $1,000 a side and the light-
weight championship of America......A cor-
respondent of the Washinton “Patriot” says
that the title of L. L. D. bestowed on Mr.
Grant means “Lover of Large Donations.....
The printers’ strike in Milwaukee created
greater excitement than any event since
the Chicago conflagration......A patent for
ear, cheek and chin muffs has been granted
to William Powellware, of New York.


