SPLINTERS.
			
  The negro population ot Virginina has de-
creased 3 1/2 per cent. in the decade from 1860
to 1870.......At Long Branch, a grand fair is
to be held this Summer, for the benefit of
the French Liberation Fund...........Cut
worms are destroying the imported Havana
tobacco, now growing in Connecticut.....
The Alabama State Democratic convention
which met June 19th, was the largest ever
held in the State......The annual reduction
of tariff duties, taxes and interest by the
acts of the Congress lately adjourned, it is
estimated, amounts to $51,823,761......A
great many cattle are reported dying in
Clark Co., Alabama, from an unknown dis-
ease...Missoula county, M. T., it is said, will
produce more grain this season, by one
half, than it ever did before......A visitor to
the Charleston, Massachusetts State prison,
reported that eight out of every ten of the
prisoners therein confined had come there,
directly or indirectly by liquor...M’me.
Rossina has been successful in the action for
damages recently brought against M.
Michotte for performing unpublished works
of her husband......Trees have been found
in Australia taller than those of California,
though not so large......Charles Reade has
five libel suits on hand against English
journalists, for criticisms of his new play,
"Shilly Shally"......In Switzerland, when a
prison becomes vacant, a white flag is
hoisted on its towers to apprize the world of
the fact. Such a standard now waves over the
jail at Montiers....Mrs. Stevens says the
habit of living in hotels and boarding-houses,
and eating at restaurants, is one of the bad
features of California life; there are too few
homes, and that is the reason why society
is so demoralized......It is stated of a promi-
nent military general that “his sword was
never drawn but once and that was in a
raffle"....The scheme of excavating a railroad
tunnel under the Straits of Dover, to con-
nect England and france, has been ban-
doned on account of the expense and engi-
neering difficulties......Mrs. Lattimer, of the
Pacific Coast convention association, man-
ages a farm of over one thousand acres and
makes a paying institution of it......A fine
quarry of lithographic stone has been dis-
covered in Kentucky, on the line of the
Lexington and Big Sandy railroad........A
foreigner, writing about the United States,
calls this country "the land of school houses."
......Jersey CIty is threatened with water
famine......Mrs. Fisk will erect a $50,000
monument over her deceased husband......
Prince Fredrick Charles, it is said, designs
visiting the United States next month......
Bryant, Longfellow, Homes, Saxe and
Lowell are all rich men. Poetry and poverty
are no longer inseparable companions......
The British iron product is about 5,500,000
tons a year, and the American about 2,000,-
000......At Cincinnati, a few days since,
Rev. J. J. Thompson, pastor of a M. E. 
chapel, had his head split open with a
hatchet in the hands of Thomas Bond. Cause:
Thompson kissed Bond's sweetheart......Of
the 139 members of the English Chaucer
Society, 56 are Americans......The diamond
miners near the Cape of Good Hope have al-
ready sent to Europe and sold $7,500,000
worth of diamonds......Mrs. Abbie Sage
Richardson will probably accept the chair of
elocution at the Cook county, Illinois,
Normal School.......A female book canvasser
in California says she has had fourteen of-
fers of marriage and sixty engagements to
lecture within six months......Gold Hill,
Nevada, will soon be lighted with gas. The
laying of the pipe has already commenced.
......The first new baby in Cairo since the
[next column]
Cincinnati Convention, is said to have been
named Horace Greeley Cummings......
Hugo Von Mohl, the greatest botanist of
the day, died recently at Tubingen, in his
sixty-seventh year......"Why women can-
not be turned into men," is the title of a
new work, published in England......En-
gagement bracelets, placed by the intended
husband on the lady's arms and locked by a
small gold key, is the latest novelty......
Rev. Robert Collyer, of Chicago, speaking
of the "social evil," says that one of the
chief duties with us all is to urge young peo-
ple to get married......Of fifty candidates
who passed the Arts examination of the
Apothecaries' Society of London, a few days
since, only twenty-seven were successful,
two of them ladies, Mrs. Henry Lawson
and Miss Alice Rowland......Women
in Austria perform the duties of bricklayers
and may be seen carrying hods of morter
and baskets of brick up high ladders......
The shout that shook the sea-shore when
"Longfellow" came in foremost at the end
of the struggle for the Monmouth cup, was
thought to represent the powers of 15,000
lungs......All the newspapers in Lima, ex-
cept the “Times,” have been arbitarily sup-
pressed and their special editors arrested....
A large body of the Arizona Apaches have
been making a raid into Sonora, killing and
destroying without mercy.


