ONE WAY LIFE IS BLIGHTED.
			—
	A part of the misery in the world
arises from persons, not understanding each
other; sometimes from selfish indifference
on the subject, sometimes from thinking
that to do so is petty and puerile. Two
people, for instance, are thrown into inti-
mate daily relations. One understands no
suffering that is not purely physical. If he
is not hungry, if he is not thirsty, if he is
not cold, if he has a roof over his head, if he
is not bothered,  whether-necessarily. or
otherwise his life is rounded off. To shed 
a tear for lack of sympathy, or appreciation,
or love, after that is to him lunacy, and to
be treated as such, with a hard, Gradgrind
non-recognition worthy of such a creed.
Now, imagine a sensitive nature, delicately
susceptible to the “little things”—miscalled
so—which make up our lives, grieving over
rough or indifferent words, where tender 
recognition should have come at the right
moment, like medicine—a tenderness which
costs nothing, perhaps only a simple word
or caress, or look, even; hungering day after
day for something besides the hard practi-
calities of life—imagine such a person keep-
ing back as far as possible the unshed tears,
conscientiously, nevertheless, doing duty—
labor—day after day, week after week,
month after month, with a heavy heart; and
the other eating; sleeping, drinking, as in-
different to the suffering caused as if life
and loyalty were fulfilled by these  latter
conditions.
	It is very poor comfort to answer that dif-
fering natures have differing limitations;
just as one vessel may hold a gallon and
another a pint, and each be useful in its
way. Would it not be well for this stolid
nature, voluntarily choosing such relation-
ship, to ask the question whether there may
not be real suffering in these cases, though
he himself “Never felt so, and therefore
can’t understand it?” Is it not duty, as
well as wisdom, in such juxtaposition, to
make an effort to “understand it,” and not
coolly to deny its existence, or pronounce it 
a sham, because he has only one nerve
sensitive to pain or pleasure where the
other has a hundred?
	It is pitiful to think how, for the want of
this, some natures, like prisoned birds, beat
themselves against the bars of a relentless
fate, till, bruised and maimed, they drop, at
least for the timebeing, into a hopeless des-
pair, their songs stifled, their wings clipped,
and darkness and silence reigning, where
brightness and music might so easily have
come.	
	Ali, it is blessed that in another world
there will be no limitations. Else how could
Heaven be, with natures one half paralyzed,
as here, for want of Space to expand—chilled,
stunted, frowned upon, denounced, for lack
of that charity without which all else is
comparatively valueless?
	“I never felt so; it is all nonsense.” I
neVer yet saw those cruel words in-
scribed on a tombstone as the cause of death.


ONE THING brings upanother, especially if
the first thing is an emetic.


IF YOU want to test the ingenious tortures
of the inquisition, place a pretty girl in the
house with a lot of old spinsters to live. If
they do not get her on the rack, within a
month, it will be an exceptional case.


