HOME AFFAIRS.
			 —
 THERE APPEARS to be a misunderstanding
on the part of numbers of our readers, in regard
to the Editor of the EXPONENT, “Mr. L. L.
Green, Dear Editor,” and “Editor Woman’s
EXPONENT, Dear Sir,” are honorable appella-
tions, but we are not entitled to either “Mr.” or
“Sir,” being simply a woman, which our name
as it now appears over the editoriaI department
will indicate.
  WE MUST repeat again that subscribers in
this city who desire their papers delivered at
their residences, can be so accommodated by
the payment of twenty-five cents for the year
to the carrier; and they should send in their
names immediately. Those who do not wish
it delivered can get it after the first and fifteenth
of each month by calling at Campbell & Patter-
son’s East Temple Street.
  ON SATURDAY evening last a Greeley and
Brown ratification meeting was held at the
City. Hall, in this city, at which nearly five
thousand people were present, including many
ladies. Two bands of music were in attendance,
an artillery salute was fired, and stirring
speeches were made. The indications were very
decisive that if Utah had a State government
Its electoral vote would be given for Mr. Gree-
ley by a very large popular majority.
  MRS. DUNIWAY, editor of the “New North-
west,” Portland, Oregon, delivered an interest-
ing lecture in the tabernacle in this city on
Monday night, the 8th inst., choosing for her
subject “Human Rights.” Reference will be
ound made to it elsewhere, and the circum-
stances which brought Mrs. Duniway into the
editorial sanctum and the lecture field. She is
an earnest woman, and in her lecture advanced
some excellent ideas clothed In a garniture of
oloquent language
   THE NATIONAL Anniversary has come and
gone since our last issue. Independence Day
passed without a formal celebration in this
city, as a result of the narrow-mindedness of
ofiicial authority which would prevent a free
people from celebrating as they should the
birth-day of freedom. But in their “heart of
hearts” the people carried their love for liberty
and their reverence for the great men gone, just
as fondly as though they had engaged in all the
outward seeming of patriotism which so often
characterizes Fourth of July celebrations.
  HON. W. H. HOOPER, retires from the politi-
cal field as Delegate to Congress, after having
faithfully served the Territory for ten years in
that position. He retains the unabated confi-
dence and warmest wishes for his success of the
thousands whose votes were cast for him at
each election, for he has proved himself an in-
defatigable, energetic, and honorable public
officer. Hon. Geo. Q. Cannon is nominated for
Delegate, a gentleman in every way qualified
to fill the place, and with a record as clear as
the crystal water which is his principal bever-
age.	
  ALMOST EVERY day subscriptions are being
received for the Exponent, the senders asking
to have the papers sent from the beginning of
the volume. We regret being unable to meet
these requests affirmatively, as the issue of the
first and second numbers is exhausted. The desire
to possess the history of the first organization of
the Female Relief Society In Nauvoo, written,
by Miss Eliza R. Snow, is one great reason why
so much anxiety is manifested to obtain the
numbers in which it appeared; and to meet
this desire we purpose, after some little time,
republishing it for the benefit of those who
have not yet read it.	
[new column]
  WEDNESDAY WEEK, the Twenty-fourth inst.,
is the anniversary of the day when the Pioneers,
under President Brigham Young, entered this
valley. The occasion is held in warm remem-
brance by the people of Utah, for it opened a
new era in their history. Here, after having
borne for sad years the pitless storm of persecu-
tion, culminating in the martyrdom of their
Prophet and Patriarch and their being driven
beyond the confines of “civilization,” they
found rest and peace, and under the blessing of
Heaven the little one has become a nation. No
wonder they celebrate the day with fervor and
earnestness.
		 ————————


