HOME AFFAIRS.

	IMPROVEMENTS in our City and harvesting
in its surroundings are visible everywhere.

	AN ADDRESS “in behalf of the twenty-four
young ladies” and an interesting communica-
tion from St. George, both contributed by
“Flora,” are unavoidably held over, as are also
several other articles and correspondence.

THE LADIES’ Retrenchment Association Ball,
given on the evening of the Twenty-fourth of
July, in the Thirteenth Ward assembly rooms,
was a success. After paying all the incidental
expenses, the Committee found they had a
small surplus of $22.00—which they deposited
in the P. E. Fund.

	WHOSE IS IT?—A young lady wishes to make
enquiry through the “EXPONENT,” whether
the owner of a pretty gray and white, half-
grown kitten, that followed her from some
house on Second East street, early on the
morning of the 25th of July, would like to
ascertain its whereabouts. Information con-
cerning it may be obtained at Bishop L. D.
Young’s, 18th Ward.

 -     THE PAST two weeks has been a period
fraught with care and sorrow to many in differ-
ent parts of the City. Numerous accidents have
occurred, many of them of a very serious
nature, and some fatal. Quite a number of
deaths from sickness are also reported. To the
exceedingly dry and hot weather which has
been experienced may be accorded much of the
cause for ill health which has been and is still
complained of.

	THROUGH THE courtesy of Bishop L. D.
Young, we have had the pleasure of perusing
an interesting letter from Brother Edward
Stevenson, Missionary to the United States,
written at Polk City, Iowa. The writer repre-
sents himself and Elder Porter as enjoying
their Missionary labors, being favorbly received
in that portion of the country. His letter,
directed to Bishop Young, is addressed, within,
to “Elder L. D. Young, and the Home Mission-
ary Staff;” and he cordially greets them all.

	THE ORGANIZATION of a physiological class,
which took place on the afternoon of Thursday,
July 25th, under the supervision of Mrs. Sarah
Kimball; in the 15th Ward F. R. Society hall,
in this City, promises to be an opening for the
pursuit of much valuable information and con-
sequent good results for our ladles. There is
scarcely any, perhaps no other branch of educa-
tion which can be made so practically and in-
dividually useful, especially to women, as the
study of physiology. Yet it has heretofore
been sadly neglected; and even ridiculed by
many unthinking people.

	THOSE NAMES presented to the public as can-
didates for the various offices to be filled at the
coming election, have, without doubt been well
canvassed and considered by those who are de-
sirous of participating in the electoral enact-
ments. Ladies, as well as gentlemen should
understand the importance attached to giving
support to a candidate to any office, by which
the whole or a portion of the community is to
be wronged or benefitted. To be sure we are
voting to sustain good officers, is the only way
wo can know we are not voting to sustain bad
ones.

	ALL INNOCENT attempts at home progress
and self improvement should be generously
sustained and encouraged. Yet, care must be
taken, that charity does not overreach its legit-
imate limits and pronounce acquirements of
thought and manner of gesticulation good when
they are really crude, or excellent while only
[new column]
moderate. The performance of the young folks
at the theatre last evening was, for the most
part very well executed; the haste manifested
throughout the entire presentation of the drama,
being excusable. The duet by the young flut-
ists and the song, “Dolly Varden” were very
happily rendered.


