FARMERS’ BOYS.
			    —
	There is a native manliness and indepen- 
dent nobility about farmers’ boys that is 
rarely ever witnessed in those who grow up
in cities. The city boy may be more pol-
ished, and perhaps a little quicker with his
mother tongue, but sound him and you will
find that he has not the depth of mind 
or the manliness of character that are gener-
ally possessed by the hardy country boy. 
The latter is nature’s child, he is strong, 
fearless and independent, his faculties are 
healthy and active, and he readily masters 
the lessons that are spread out so abundantly 
around them. He studies the works and
beauties of nature, and being unhampered by
the rules of conventionality, he seeks the
natural course of things he does not under-
stand, depending upon himself for the. solu-
tion of his most difficult problems; thus he
becomes self-reliant, common-sense and
practical, and when he goes out into the
world he deals with men on those princi-
ples. He understands human nature, too,
as he has learned it from his own disposi- 
tion and his keen observation of the con- 
duct of other people, and, his common-sense 
telling him that human nature is and al-
ways has been the same, he knows, exactly
how to approach men when he wishes to
gain his purpose.	
	The greatest men of every calling and all 
ages have been farmers’ sons, and they will
be until the end of time; and the secret of 
their success is their self-reliance, united 
with industrious, temperate habits. They 
have neither the time nor the means to study
the sciences and fine arts.
	There is still a brighter future for farm- 
ers’ boys. The great improvements that 
have been made in farming implements do 
away with a large portion of the heavy and 
disagreeable labor that formerly could not
be avoided, and enable one man to do as 
much work as two or three could in earlier
periods, so that now farmers have more time
to read and improve their minds and be- 
come familiar with events that are transpir- 
ing in the world. The great increase in books
and periodicals and the low prices at which 
they are offered furnish additional facilities
for obtaining knowledge, and if farmers take
advantage of them as they should, we will 
soon find our most polished gentlemen and 
cultivated scholars among the youth of the 
country.—“St. Joseph Reflector.”


DURING HIS short stay in Paris the Prince 
of Wales took occasion to pay a visit to Mrs. 
Johnson, of Baltimore, formerly Miss Har-
riet Lane, who was staying for some weeks
at the Hotel Westminster in that city. The 
compliment was not only consistent with a
truly royal courtesy, but was merited by the 
recipient, whose claim upon the recognition 
of the representative of the British throne
was well established during the years that
she presided over the White House, at 
Washington, and at the residence of the
American Minister in London. As niece
of the bachelor President, she did the
honors of the White House with a delicate
courtesy and a gentle dignity that gained
the respect as well as the admiration of state
visitors from abroad, equally with that of
the people. It was a true Republican Court
that Miss Lane established, over which she
ruled without pretensious display or foolish
extravagance, but with an elegant grace
that gave an easy supremacy. It was she
who welcomed and entertained the Prince
of Wales on his visit to America, and we
can easily believe that the return call of the
Prince in Paris was prompted as much by
inclination as by royal courtesy.


