WOMAN'S STATUS.
			   —
  With the EXPONENT'S permission I will
follow up the subject which appeared In
your first number, under the title “Woman’s
Rights, and Wrongs.”
   The status of women is one of the ques-
tions of the day. Socially and politically it
forces itself upon the attention of the world.
Some who are so conservative that they op-
pose every change until they are compelled
to accept it, refuse to concede that woman is
entitled to the enjoyment of any rights other
than those which the whims, fancies or jus-
tice, as the case may-be, of men may choose to
grant her. The reasons which they cannot
meet with argument they decry and ridicule,
an old refuge for those opposed to correct
principles which they are unable to contro-
vert. Others, again, not only recognize that
woman’s status should be improved, but are
so radical in their extreme theories that they
would set her in antagonism to man, assume
for her a separate and opposing existence,
and to show how entirely independent she
should be would make her adopt the more
reprehensible phases of character which men
present, and which should be shunned or im-
proved by them instead of being copied by
women. These are two extremes, and be-
tween them is the “golden mean.”
  We do not have to go back very far in
the history of the Anglo-Saxon race to find
a time when women were viewed and treat-
ed as chattels. The father had absolute
power in everything, except in the matter
of life and death, over his daughter. The
husband had equal power over his wife.
She was his property, to the last article of
raiment worn by her. And there are not
wanting instances within a comparatively
recent date where women have been sold
with a halter around the neck, and passed
quietly and almost uncomplainingly into
the possession of their purchasers. Even
now, among the lower classes of the Eng-
lish, the wife speaks of her husband as “my
master,” not “my husband;” and this by
traditionary force In cases where the man is
anything but master, being the veriest slave
of a woman’s will.
   Coming to America the status of woman
among the same classes may be something
higher, but it is not so well defined in any
grade of society. See the manner in which
ladies—a term for which I have little rever-
ence or respect—are treated in all public
places! The most obsequious deference is
ostensibly paid to their slightest wish. The
profane man, from whose lips in the company
of men alone oath follows oath, one scarcely
waiting on the other, will not utter an of-
fensive word in the presence of woman. She
must not be allowed to stand if a seat can be
found by a man vacating it. She must be
preserved from the slightest blast of trouble,
petted, carressed, dressed to attract atten-
tion, taught accomplishments that minister
to man’s-gratification; in other words, she
must be treated as a glittering and fragile
[new column]
toy, a thing without brains or soul, placed
on a tinselled and unsubstantial pedestal by
man, as her worshipper. This elevation of
status is by courtesy, not by right. Let one
of those idols choose to step beyond the
bounds which society prescribes, and she is
hurled from her position, and flung in the
mire of social degradation. What legal rights
can she fall back  upon? What power has
she to work her own restoration? In some
of the States of the Union she can acquire
and control property, and this is a great step
in advance. Yet she is far from possessing
the power to rise aboe untoward circum-
stances that she would possess, if she enjoyed
polilical rights and influences. For “society,”
or any social combination, in this country,
is composed of people a part of whom pos-
sess political influence, and that very in-
fluence gives them social power. An indi-
vidual man possesses but a single vote; but
he may have talent and ability, and can lead
the votes of others; and he is a power, even
though he be known to be corrupt nnd in-
temperate, and his honor and honesty are
questionable. The individual woman may
possess equal talents and ability, but she has
not a single vote, she cannot lead votes,
she is not a political power of any kind, and
society only respects her so long as she con-
forms to its rules.
  Woman’s true status is that of companion
to man, yet protected by law in the posses-
sion of those rights which will enable her to
act in an independent sphere, should he
abuse his position and render the union un-
endurable. To discuss the position thus laid
down would occupy more space than your
limits will allow at the present, so I will
take it up again.				E.


