MISCELLANEOUS.
			  ——
  AN INDIANA farmer, after trying to trap,
poison and shoot the rats that overrun his
premises, bought two goats and gave them
the range of yards and stables. Within a
week every rat emigrated and stayed away
until the goats were sold—nearly two years
afterwards—when they all came back with
all their friends. A second edition of goats
were procured, and since then not a rat has
been seen on the premises.

    BEAUTIFUL SENTENCE.—“I expect to
pass through this world but once. If, there-
fore, there is any kindness I can do to
any fellow-being, let me do it now. Let me
not defer nor neglect it, for I will not pass
this way again.” Most men live as if they
expected, perhaps, to come around again,
when they will do the kindness they neglect
to do during the present life. Concerned for
self, they fail to love their neighbors, and
distribute none of those sweet charities
which are to our fellow men as the flowers
of spring and the singing of birds. Let the
words of the Quaker stimulate us to do what
we have to do “now.” We will not travel
this way again.
  SAP IN PLANTS.—A Botanist says that
the sap in plants or trees goes up in certain
pipes in the wood or stalk, and when it gets
to the leaves, it turns about and goes back
toward the ground through other pipes in
the live portion of the bark. The sap that
goes up has a great deal of water in it, much
of which Is left with the leaves, so that the
sap which goes down in the bark carries
back to the ground but a comparatively
small quantity of water. Through the pores
of the leaves water is let off into the air.
The sap is not perfect until it has visited
the leaves and been touched by the air,
after which it goes to all portions of the
plant, down through the very roots, and
from it every part of the plant grows. The
new layer of wood which is made from the
inner bark in trees, every year, is formed
from some of this aired sap.
   A BIG CLOCK.—The large clock at the
English parliament house is the largest one
in the world. The four dials of this clock
are twenty-two feet in diameter. Every half
minute the point of the minute hand moves
nearly seven inches. The clock will go eight
and a half days, but only strikes for seven
[new column]
﻿and a half, thus indicating any neglect in
winding it up. The mere winding up of the
striking mechanism takes two hours. The
pendulum is fifteen feet long; the wheels are
of cast iron; the hour bell is eight feet high
and nine feet in diameter, weighing nearly
fifteen tons, and the hammer alone weighs
more than four hundred pounds. This clock
strikes the quarter hours, and by its strokes
the short-hand reporters in the parliament
chambers regulate their labors.  At every
stroke a new reporter takes the place of the
old one, while the first retires to write out
the notes that he has taken during the pre-
vious fifteen minutes.
  A “REPARABLE LOSS.”—The most re-
markable strike we have so far heard of is i
that of five hundred women in the north of
England and against the high price of butch-
er’s meat, potatoes and milk. A lower price
was fixed for those necessaries, and it was
resolved to burn every woman in effigy who
purchased at more than the strike rates.
One weak-minded sister exclaimed, “I must
have milk for my bairn.” “I have a bairn,”
retorted the strong-minded chairwoman,
Mrs. Hetherington, “and can make it some
flour that will answer the same purpose. If
we lose a bairn it is a reparable loss which
can be easily overcome. I propose that we
cease purchasing butcher’s meat, &c., until
the butchers, &c., reduce their prices in ac-
cordance with our terms.” The resolution
was carried with “great applause.”—“Ex-
change.”
  CRUSADE AGAINST WAR.—An eastern
paper says: Mrs. Julia Ward Howe has
crossed the Atlantic to enlist the active sup-
port of the women of England in a crusade
against war. The object of the proposed
crusade is a praiseworthy one, though the
plan is not clearly understood. Are women
to organize into bands of Maids of Saragossa,
and rush with dishevelled hair between con-
tending armies, or are they to moderate the
martial ardor of their husbands by gentle
persuasion to stay at home? The latter plan
would seem to have its disadvantages, for
in case of war between England and France,
if the English women should be successful
in inducing their male defenders to stay at
home, and the French women should not,
the benefits of a peace policy would be rather
one-sided.  It is not surprising that Mrs.
Howe has not met with much success among
the robust damsels of Albion, who have
heard more than they have seen of the evils
of war.  She should try Mexico.
   AN ICICLE TWO THOUSAND MILES LONG.
—According to a letter from St. Johns, N.
F., in the New York “Post,” the Arctic re-
gions have this year thrown off an ice spur
of an unprecedented magnitude, which is
drifting down into the Gulf Stream, and
chilling its tropical temperature. The
writer says that since last January enormous
fields of ice,sometimes 200 miles in breadth,
have been passing the shores of Newfound-
land in almost continuous streams. The
thickness of this field of ice is from twenty
to thirty feet. The distance betwen Baffin’s
Bay, where the ice fields are formed, and
the waters of the Gulf Stream, where the
masses are dissolved, is from 1,500 to 2,-
000 miles. It may be affirmed, without any
exaggeration, that a river of ice, varying
from 50 to 200 miles in breadth and 2,000
miles in length, has been for three months
pouring incessantly its contents into the
tepid waters of the Gulf Stream. Last
winter was fearfully severe, and the quantity
and thickness of the ice unprecedented.
The irruption of this immense mass of ice
into our latitude may account for the cold
and backwark season we then experienced.


