[Vol29 | July 1942 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Nocturnal Wehr]
NOCTURNAL  VISITORS 
OUve  C.  Wehr 
Last  night  when  all  was  dark  and  still, 
A  ghostly  legion  came  over  the  hill 
From  out  of  everywhere; 
And  I  was  unaware, 
Because  they  seemed  so  few  and  slight, 
How  large  they  could  loom  up  at  night 
To  frighten  foolish  me. 
But  now,  I  laugh  to  see 
How  daylight  dwarfs  those  imps  so  small 
There's  nothing  left  of  them  at  alll

All  Of  Hers  And  Half  Of  His 
Caioline  Eyiing  Miner 
MRS.    BENSON    dragged    up  She  was  off  again,  and  Henry  who 
from  the  garden  a  large  bake-  had  really  been  touched  with  the 
tin    full    of    husked     corn,  financial  argument  drew  in  his  ears 
three  yellow  squash,  and  four  toma-  and  started  rattling  the  old  cart.  Sara 
toes.    On  the  top  of  the  full  bake-  always   ended  up  on  the   self-pity 
tin  was  an  aluminum  bowl  filled  with  note,  and  it  made  him  tired.    But, 
string  beans  that  she  was  support-  he'd  learned  not  to  pay  too  much 
ing  against  her  ample  breast.    'Til  attention  to  it— just  kept  his  mouth 
have  to  get  at  those  weeds  or  Fll  get  shut  and  let  her  think  she  did  all  the 
lost  out  there,"  she  half  muttered  to  work. 
herself.  "It's  not  much  of  a  garden,  Sara  realized  she'd  failed  again, 
but  it's  better  than  none.     If  only  and  chided  herself  as  she  climbed  the 
Henry  would  help  me  with  it  a  little  half-dozen  steps  to  the  screen  porch, 
bit,  or  even  take  an  interest  in  it  ''Henry  looks  tired  and  thin,  and  the 
the  way  most  men  do."    She  came  poor  man  does  have  a  lot  to  do.  I'll 
face  to  face  with  Henry,  who  was  just  have  to  set  these  in  the  kitchen 
pushing  the  heavy  milk  cart  with  its  and  go  down  and  help  him.    These 
full  cans  of  milk  up  the  incline  that  things  will  wait.    Anyway,  I  always 
led    to    the    milk    room.      'Took,  could  work  circles  around   Henry. 
Henry,  what  we've  got  from   our  He's  so  everlastingly  slow.     I  have
