[Vol29 | July 1942 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Theology and]

LESSON, Theology and Testimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 9
The Sacrament Of The Lord's mee (Tuesday, October 6, 1942) Condensation of Chapter 9 of Articles of Faith by Talmage EH DEPARTMENT (This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.) The Sacrament After Jesus had instituted the sacrament of bread and wine among the Nephites, he said: "And this shall ye always do to those who repent and are baptized in my name;" (3
Nephi 18:11) It is in connection, then, with the fourth "'Article of Faith," that we study the sacrament. Institution of the Sacrament Among the Jews The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper was instituted by Christ on the night before His crucifixion when He and His apostles were met in an upper chamber to observe the Jewish feast of the Passover. "And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body. And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it; For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins." (Matthew 26:26- 28). Institution of the Sacrament Among the Nephites Christ visited the Nephites shortly after the ascension from Mount Olivet as recorded in 3
Nephi, chapters 11-26, inclusive. During His first visitation He instituted the sacrament among them. (3
Nephi 18; 3
Nephi 26:13) Fit Partakers of the Sacrament In the primitive church, Paul gave explicit directions concerning those who should partake of the sacrament. (I Cor. 11:26-30) While instructing the Nephites, Jesus laid great stress upon the fitness of those who partook of the sacrament. (3
Nephi 18:28, 29) In relation to the instructions given us in our day see Doctrine and Covenants 20:75 and 46:4.
Purpose of the Sacrament
From scriptural citations it is plain that the sacrament is administered to commemorate the atonement of Jesus; it is a testimony before God that we are mindful of His Son's sacrifice made in our behalf; that we profess the name of Christ and strive to keep His commandments that we may have His Spirit to be with us.
The Sacramental Emblems
Among both the Jews and the Nephites, Christ used bread and wine as the emblems of His body and blood. Soon after the Church was organized in the present dispensation, as the Prophet Joseph Smith was about to purchase wine for sacramental purposes, a messenger from God met him and said, "... It mattereth not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glory.... Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, that you shall not purchase wine... Of your enemies...." (Doctrine and Covenants 27:2-4) Upon this authority, Latter-day Saints administer water in preference to wine.
Manner of Administering the Sacrament
It is customary for Latter-day Saints to hold sacramental meetings every Sabbath in their wards and branches. The authority of the priest of the Aaronic order is requisite in consecrating the emblems. The manner of administering the sacrament and the prayers to be given in consecrating the emblems are recorded in Doctrine and Covenants 20:76-79.
LESSON PLAN
Lesson Aim: To develop an understanding of the value and purpose of the Sacrament
Suggested Material Outline
I. The Lord's Supper A. The Origin The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper was established by Jesus on the night of His betrayal and following the Passover meal which He and the Twelve kept in obedience of the Jewish law. He broke bread and blessed it and passed it to the others and said: "Take, eat; this is my body"; (Matthew 26:26) "... This do in remembrance of me." (Luke 22:19) After blessing wine, he said: "Drink ye all of it; For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins." (Matthew 26:27-28)
B. Its Purpose
C. Nature of the Emblems "... It mattereth not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glory?remembering unto the Father my body which was laid down for you, and my blood which was shed for the remission of your sins." (Doctrine and Covenants 27:2)
D. Manner of Administering the Sacrament Specific instructions are given in Section Twenty of the Doctrine and Covenants.
E. Fit Partakers Read 3 Nephi, 18:28-29. We should keep ourselves "worthy to partake of the sacred emblems" by a true faith in Jesus and His teachings and by genuine repentance.
II. The Sacrament is Analogous to a Weekly Baptism
At the time of baptism we publicly demonstrated, as best we could for our age and experience, that we were on the road to perfect faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and that we had discovered and expected to continue to discover through practical experience, the saving power of true repentance. The partaking of the emblems of the sacrament is a weekly reminder that our faith in Jesus needs expansion and that repentance can still be an active force in our lives as we struggle toward perfection. In this sense the sacrament is analogous to a weekly baptism, and through it the child of eight, and in fact all of us, can move toward a fuller understanding of the saving power of faith, repentance, baptism, and all the principles of the Gospel.
III. The Sacrament as an Aid in Worship
Because of the music and the atmosphere of peace and quiet during the passing of the sacrament, an attitude of meditation is rather easily acquired. In this situation it seems natural to seek God. Genuine worship goes forward with comparative ease. Probably no other aspect of church service is so conducive to genuine worship. Because of this, the wise person makes use of this weekly opportunity to worship?to seek God, to find Him while solving a problem, and to adjust to the new "vision."
Suggested Method Outline
I. The subject, "The Lord's Supper," might be assigned to a member of the class as a talk. The passages of scripture cited should be read in an impressive manner.
II. Following the introduction to the topic, "The Sacrament is Analogous to a Weekly Baptism," the teacher might ask such questions as these: In terms of affecting one's way of life, how are the sacrament and baptism alike? Why is the sacrament so important in the life of the child who is baptized at the age of eight? Just how does the sacrament help build a fuller understanding of faith, repentance, and baptism? How does the sacrament help a person to build a Christ-like life?
III. After introducing the subject, "The Sacrament as an Aid in Worship," the teacher might lead the members of the class to describe the religious experiences which they have had during the passing of the sacrament. Such expressions are so personal that care will need to be exercised, but if the responses are free much good will result. The members might be asked to actually test out the sacrament period as a time for genuine worship. Each member should be urged to evaluate within herself the results. Such a project could lead to marked religious development.
IV. Mothers could be urged to teach their children respect for the sacrament period during a meeting by assisting the child to have a more complete understanding of its significance. As a closing sentiment, the teacher might conclude thus: "One need not languish for want of spiritual nourishment.