[Vol29 | July 1942 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The Century of Rea]
The Century Of Light (A Parable) — Dorothy Oakley Rea LIZA looked from the lone window of her roughhewn cottage and saw that the sun was sinking fast. She rubbed tired hands on her faded calico apron and murmured half aloud, "The sun will be gone soon, and I shall be in darkness here unless I hurry. How strange that the need of a light should stir me, to whose tired soul and body the warm darkness acts as balm." But Eliza cut her wicks a little faster and threaded them through the candle molds with deft fingers before she lifted the iron pot of yellow, beef tallow from the fire. As long, gray shadows prowled stealthily across the sill of the lonely little window, Eliza selected one candle, not quite firm yet, and held it to the hearth fire until a cheery flame danced onto the wick. She carried the metry bubble of light to the little window, and the shadows in the little room left the floor arid danced merrily on the rafters overhead, casting a gracious veil over all that was crude and unbeautiful about the room. Far out in the night, a few weary wayfarers saw Eliza's candle burning and were cheered. The night seemed less dark to them, and they went more surely on their way. As for Eliza, she drew her chair near to the bubble of light, and her tired eyes became bright as they fell upon page after page of treasured words that would give her much to think about through tomorrow's labor-loaded day. F, LLEN hummed a merry tune as she moved about her little house, hanging fresh white curtains to the windows that seemed to be everywhere. She wiped the smudge made by a small hand from one pane and turned to her small son. "Craig dear, does it help you to see out the window if you put your hands on the glass?" | "No, Mommy, but if I press my nose there I can almost see around the corner to where Daddy's working."
Ellen laughed, "But, darling, you needn't try to peer around corners any longer. Now, there is a window on every side. How your grandmother lived in this place with only that one tiny square is more than Pll ever know." "But, Mommy, Harry Deal's grandfather says that Grandma's window was always smiling, and he says that ours are dull as blind eyes. He says that all the folks who were traveling hereabouts at night got their bearings from Grandma's window."
Ellen smiled into the serious eyes. "And what else does Harry Deal's grandfather say?" "He says that no matter what evil thing was hiding out in the dark, it just was no longer there when Grandma put her candle here on this sill." "Nonsense, Craig, there are 'no evil things in the dark, except the deeds men hide beneath its cover."
Craig sighed. "I hope you're right, but I'd feel a lot better inside if we had lights in our windows when Page 457 458 I'm bringing up the stovewood at night. Sometimes I drop 'most half my load tryin' to get out of the shadows of the orchard."
That night the winds came and rain beat with small fists at Ellen's new windows. She was huddled in the far corner of the room with her book. Her one lamp sputtered fitfully, as the wick strained toward the small amount of oil that Ellen allowed herself each night. The light cast long fingers across the passage where Ellen read: "Let your light so shine...." Suddenly, she thought of dear little Craig, hurrying panic-stricken through the orchard. She went quickly to the mantle shelf where a row of unused lamps were standing. 'They had been her wedding gifts. She brought a jug of oil and filled them carefully. As each figurine of light stepped gracefully to the waiting -wick, Ellen glanced about the room and laughed aloud at its festive brightness.
Carefully then, she drew aside her fresh curtains and let each lamp stand as a sentinel in a window.
Ellen thought that it was strange that she had always had the lamps and the oil, and yet she had kept this lovely light hidden. Two bright eyes laughed at Ellen over a double armload of apple wood. "See, I didn't drop a stick tonight. I was almost to run when I looked up and saw the windows. Then I just walked along looking at the light, and I didn't once think of the shadows any more." "They'll be this way every night, Craig. You needn't be afraid any more."
Across the little town, Grandpa  
Deal laid a light willow to the wet flanks of his horse. The rain ran from the brim of his old hat, and he shook the water from his shaggy brows, to peer into the night. "They's a bridge along here somewheres. I should of toted in before dark, so's I could see my way. Whoa, there, Bess! Let's wait here a spell, ~ so's I can get my bearings." Grandpa Deal stood up lamely, looking about for some familiar landmark. Suddenly, across the town bright squares of yellow light smiled at him. "Well, praises be, there's a light in Eliza's window. I s'pose her sweet soul knew that there would be weary travelers about in this devilinfested night. Giddap, Bess, I got my bearings now." CRAIG stood in the open doorway of his radio control room, listening intently. The snow blew past him onto the rug and dissolved itself softly into puddles at his feet. His young wife turned from the fireplace. "Surely, Craig, you don't suppose that any plane is flying in this kind of weather?
After all, it is New Year's Eve, and I'd like to be someplace a little more gay than at a deserted airport.
Whatever possessed the city to buy this old shack for a signal station, anyway?"
Craig closed the door and looked about the little room with its roughhewn walls and its little square windows. "Are you asking for infor- _ mation, Marie, or just being peevish?"
Marie laughed. "I expect I was really being sulky. But just why did you encourage them to choose this old place? It reeks with age, THE CENTURY OF LIGHT and it would have cost so little to build a nice, modern one somewhere."
Craig sunk into a deep chair near the hearth. "A pilot getting his location, my dear, is not concerned about the type of building he sees for a landmark when he is flying during daylight. At night, all he cares about seeing is a light. 'The location of this place is ideal. It can be seen from every direction. The land has been cleared and is level, and the wind doesn't blow here constantly." "And besides all that," Marie teased, "I think that you are just plain in love with the old place."
Craig smiled wistfully. "See that strange-looking contraption in the corer? 'That was my grandmothers' candle mold.
Grandfather was considering heat loss when he built this place, so he only made one window. But I've heard that there was a candle burning in it every night as long as Gran lived.
There weren't any street lights then, and people used to look to Gran's candle for direction. "Now, those old lamps on the mantle.... How'd you like to have to use those to light our new home, Marie?
Those were what my mother used. I remember when my dad made all these windows. It made the house look like a gilded castle to me when I was coming through the old orchard at night. Sometimes I'd be scared inside, and the lights from the windows would make me feel all peaceful and not afraid any more."
Marie glanced at her watch. "Soon it will be a new year.
Just think of all the years that have slid over this 459 dear old roof, weaving themselves into a century. I think I see now why you were so anxious to get the electricity over here. I've even suspected that you paid for it yourself." "Does it matter who paid for it, so long as folks are still traveling in the night and looking for a beacon to guide them?"
Marie rose suddenly from her chair and was listening. "Craig, listen! Don't you hear a motor? It sounds very faraway, but I'm sure I hear Ta Craig was at his radio board, turning dials and adjusting headphones. "Hello.... Hello.... Station LT calling....
Come in....
Come in....
This is station LT; are you on the beam?
Come in....
Come in.... Hello.... Hello.... Yes, come in. What's your location? You're too far west.
Come east and look for lights....
Your fuel will hold if you drop easily and come in due east.
Watch for lights....
