[Vol29 | July 1942 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Reading for Johnson]

What a tragedy that the law was repealed! (To be continued ) Reading For Understanding Harriet P. Johnson Member of Public Library Staff, Salt Lake City URING the high nervous teniB) sion of wartime with its exhausting mental strain and emotional excitement, our great need is to find some medium through which we may gain emotional and intellectual balance and _ preserve normalcy. The art of reading may assume great value to us as a means of bringing serenity into our lives. If you enjoy reading, the open book is a ready and sure means of freeing your thoughts from the deadliness of reality.
There are books for every taste and mood; books to take your thoughts anywhere and in every fashion.
Down through the ages we have had master thinkers who have given us in literature a panacea for every ill of life. We have had writers with the broad view of the philosopher, who see beyond the corruption of evil to the triumph of righteousness. We have had authors who deal with the beauty of truths everlasting and give to us a pattern for a better way of life.
Read from such literary artists as John Ruskin who was primarily an apostle of righteousness. "No other man," said Carlyle, "has in him the divine rage against iniquity, falsity, and baseness that Ruskin has, and every man ought to have." For fifty years the writings of Ruskin took on a plea for a return to the simple virtues. He reminds the weary king and the tormented slave alike that the secrets of happiness "are in drawing hard breath over chisel or spade Page 472 or plow; in watching the corn grow and blossoms set; and after toil, reading, thinking, hoping and praying."
Books are the means whereby the thought of the author is communicated to man—if man can but read the message. If man can read? Yes, it is true that very few can read in the sense of taking in the full significance of the printed page, to say nothing of exercising judgment upon it. Ask a dozen people to interpret the message from a page of Emerson's "Self-reliance." 'They will probably return with twelve different versions, yet Emerson had but one message. The successful reader is he who gains from the printed page all that the author intends to communicate—not only in thought, but in understanding. The term "a great reader" is often erroneously applied to one who reads a quantity of books. Men who fill their minds with unassimilated information Pope calls "bookful blockheads." A "great reader" is he who reads the best quality of books, and extracts from them their full meaning.
Successful reading is not limited to college students. One receives the essential tools for reading in the grade schools when he learns the written symbols of language.
Successful reading is but active thinking. To get the most out of books can become as exhilarating as the most absorbing game.
Sometimes we select an article of READING FOR UNDERSTANDING quality to be read, and in attempting to read it we find ourselves confused.
Under such circumstances there are two things we might do: First, we might get external help by going to textbooks, teachers, or other outside sources, but this does not fully exercise our own minds. The other alternative is to settle down and wrestle with the problem ourselves, giving to it our own best thought.
Light fiction and other ordinary books do not require deep thinking, but great books that deal with fundamental problems demand _ active mental effort. If the same mental processes could be applied to all reading that are used in reading love letters, no thought would be lost, for that is one type of literature that is universally well read. The recipient reads every word carefully, weighing each one against the other, and considering each in relation to the whole. He rereads, considers many possible interpretations, rejects many, and finally accepts the most optimistic.
Then he reads between the lines and finally, adds some original thought.
There are some helps to thoughtful reading, such as note taking.
Notes help one to retain what he has read, and may be a means of recording his own thoughts on the subject.
Notes taken in a notebook or on paper in the form of an outline, setting forth the major topics and sub-topics with comments for judgment and understanding are very helpful. The process of writing is a means of keeping one mentally alert, and is certainly a valuable aid to memory. If it is important to read between the lines, it is equally important to 473 write between the lines.
Many people have a false respect for paper, type, and fine binding; and would keep them immaculate to the extent of sacrificing the gifts of the author's genius. If one has a super-de luxe edition of a valuable book, he should buy a cheap edition which he will not hesitate to mark.
Notations become a valuable part of a book. To pick up a book with one's notes of agreement or disagreement a year or two after having read it, is like resuming a conversation. However, a person should never mar a borrowed book or a book belonging to a public library.
Respect for the rights and property of others forbids this. One must remember, too, that note taking is only a means of study. Too much dependence on notes prevents the article from becoming wholly his. Not until one can give the information to others without the aid of paper does the thought really become his. NOTHER important factor in reading for understanding is rereading. 'The value of rereading a book depends upon the book and the uplift it gives. A book of classic quality with broad and wholesome views will yield more entertainment, information, and understanding with every reading. It may become an inexhaustible fountain of enjoyment, information, and stimulation. However, returning to pages which a period of years before held surprise and charm sometimes makes melancholy reading. A book may be good at one stage of life and bad at another.
Rereading is often a means of measuring one's mental progress.
People reread books for different teasons. A sentimentalist rereads a 474 book because he enjoyed it in his childhood.
Another type of person finds a book worth rereading because it echoes his own unchangeable prejudices. A one-book man is a man in a dangerous condition, as he is almost sure to be psychopathic—unless, of course, the book he reads is the "Book of Books."
Readers have been classified as belonging to one of three broad groups. It may be interesting to grade ourselves. If we read such things as newspapers with understanding, we pass grade one. To grade two belong the readers of such books as The Ignorance of Valor or Overstreet's Brave Enough for Life. In grade three are those who reach a peak in reading for understanding— 4 _  those who assimilate such works as Einstein's books on higher mathematics. 'This classification seems to -omit fiction. But fiction is a form of reading indulged in by readers of all grades. Its value is largely measured by the reader's need for relaxation. We learn only from our betters.
When the best books are read, there may be an inequality, to some degree, between the author and the reader. 'This the reader must overcome. It is a challenge to his skill as a reader. As he masters the printed page and gets the author's full message from it, his reward is an increase in knowledge and the satisfaction of accomplishment.