[Vol29 | July 1942 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: All of Hers and Half of Miner]

All Of Hers And Half Of His
Caroline Eyring Miner
MRS. BENSON dragged up from the garden a large baketin full of husked corn, three yellow squash, and four tomatoes. On the top of the full baketin was an aluminum bowl filled with string beans that she was supporting against her ample breast.
"I'll have to get at those weeds or I'll get lost out there," she half muttered to herself, "It's not much of a garden, but it's better than none. If only Henry would help me with it a little bit, or even take an interest in it the way most men do."
She came face to face with Henry, who was pushing the heavy milk cart with its full cans of milk up the incline that led to the milk room.
"Look, Henry, what we've got from our garden. Now that's worth a lot. (Surreptitiously she was trying to interest him in the garden, baiting him to fertilize it another year, or at least to see to its getting plowed without so much nagging.) Now you see," she went on, "corn at fifteen cents a dozen would make this worth?one-two-three-four-five," she counted rapidly, and then estimated liberally, "well, about fifty cents anyway, and there's squash and beans besides. Why, Henry, you surely can see a garden is worth-while?and to think how I have to nag and scold to get it plowed; and it never gets a bit of manure on it with a whole world of it out there." She pointed to the corral with its fertile yards. "It just makes me sick, Henry, and every year it's the same thing."
She was off again, and Henry who had really been touched with the financial argument drew in his ears and started rattling the old cart. Sara always ended up on the self-pity note, and it made him tired. But, he'd learned not to pay too much attention to it?just kept his mouth shut and let her think she did all the work.
Sara realized she'd failed again, and chided herself as she climbed the half-dozen steps to the screen porch. "Henry looks tired and thin, and the poor man does have a lot to do. I'll just have to set these in the kitchen and go down and help him. These things will wait. Anyway, I always could work circles around Henry. He's so everlastingly slow. I have to do all my work and then half of his, too." She rather enjoyed talking things over with herself?it somehow made things clearer.
She rushed to the stove, turned the burner on, grasped the kettle from its hook above the sideboard and filled it about two-thirds full of water. Then she put in a teaspoonful of salt and a cup of cracked wheat and put the lid on securely. "Now breakfast can be cooking while I help Henry with the milk. I know how to manage," she congratulated herself. "I don't make a lost move. Now Henry?he takes an eternity to do anything; has to have every detail just so before he'll start. If I worked the way he does, I'd never get anywhere either."
She was just starting down to help Henry when John, who was three, woke up. "Good land, Johnny, go back to bed quick, it's nighttime. Mama just has to help daddy, and then she'll be right back." But Johnny protested, and Johnny won out as he always did because he had such a loud voice which would wake the other three children who ranged in the regular "two-year stair step" order?five, seven, and nine. Pants and shirts and shoes and stockings were pulled onto Johnny's chubby body, and he was allowed to go with mamma to help daddy.
Twice while she was helping Henry and having to wait for him, Sara rushed to the house to stir the mush and slam a few dishes on the table. That was system for you! Why if Henry'd do that, she wouldn't have to do all of her work and half of his.
As she vigorously stirred the mush, the doorbell rang. Sara pulled a dress over Lora's head as she ran to the door. Lora had been wandering around for sometime in her nightgown.
"Well, for land sakes, come in, Janie. We haven't even had breakfast, but I'll go with you. Just take me a second to slip something on. Didn't you say the sale was at Goodwin's? Just a second?I've been helping Henry; I could manage my own work, but you know how it is with all of mine to do and half of his besides." She went to the basement door and called, "Henry, I'm going down to the sale at Goodwin's with Janie. Breakfast's on the stove. Now do eat and see that the children get a good breakfast. They must all get all their clothes on first, too. And Henry, please put these vegetables I got on to cook?the beans won't be ready for dinner if you don't. I ought to be right back."