[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | February | Issue: 7 | Title: R. S. REPORTS. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

			R. S. REPORTS.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	On October 30, 1909, at Preston, Idaho,
the Oneida Stake Relief Society met in a
semi-annual conference, with President
Louisa B. Benson presiding.
	One member of the Stake Board excused.
Singing. Minutes. Singing. Organizations
represented.
	Address of welcome, counselor Hannah
Mickelson.
	A report of the late General Relief Society
Conference was given by President Benson.
The principal subjects were care of children,
home sanitation, business methods in the
home, and home manufacture. Special at-
tention was drawn to President Joseph F.
Smith’s earnest desire for the welfare of our
children, and his exhortation to prayerfully
and watchfully care for them.
	The following organizations reported their
meetings held regularly, average attend-
ance increasing. Mother’s work successful,
sick and needy taken care of—Clifton, Fair-
view, Franklin, Oxford Whitney, the four
wards of Preston and Weston, all except-
ing the last six named, have their wheat
well cared for in granaries, those having sold
have their money out at interest. The last
named has 25 bushels in granary, the bal-
ance of money out at interest. All branches
reported as ready to begin the new outlines
for mother’s work in January.
	Organ solo, Jennie Tanner.
	Stake Treasurer’s report read and ap-
proved.
	President L. B. Benson spoke on punc-
tuality, the uses of an emergency box, car-
ing for and storing of wheat, also the visits
of our local sisters to the Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations. Advised each
society to select at least six sisters to act as
leaders in the mother’s work, these sisters to
be changed two at a time every six
months.
	Singing, and benediction by A. M. Mc-
Neil.
	Afternoon session: Singing. Prayer. Sing-
ing. Report of the year’s work of the Re-
lief Society of the Stake given by Linda
N. Benson. The General and Local officers

[Column 2]
were unanimously sustained. The following
sisters were sustained to assist the Relief
Society Stake Board: Esther C. Rogers,
Millie Golightly, Chloe Howell, Margaret
Dunkley, Addie Love, and Sarah Fjelsted.
A lecture on “Our boys and girls” was
given by Stake President of the Y. L. M. I.
A. Luella S. Cowley; the principal topics
treated were, religious training, our child’s
consultation in home affairs, gaining the
love and confidence of children.
	Response, Mary Henderson.
	Vocal duet, Sisters Thomas and Johnson.
	A lecture, “Our Little Ones,” was given
by Lucy D. Cutler, Stake President of the
Primary Association. Topics treated, Prim-
ary work, assisting the children to love the
Gospel. Sister Cutler sang “Our Work is
with the Children.”
	Response, Sister Barbara Ballif.
	Elder Joseph Belnap spoke on “How we
should conduct our iives.”
	President George C. Parkinson spoke on
the study of our children’s dispositions, our
teachings to them, influence of a good
home, and invoked the blessings of God on
the mothers.
	Solo, Myrtle Brimhall.
	President Louisa B. Benson made closing
remarks and prayed the mothers would try
to better their lives.
	Singing, “May we know the joyful
sound.” Benediction President George C.
Parkinson.
		PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL. Sec.
			JUAB STAKE.
	Minutes of a conference of the Juab Stake
Relief Society held in the Tabernacle Sep-
tember 17, 1909, President Unity Chappell
presiding. President Chappelle said she
was pleased to meet with the sisters in an-
other conference, and while there were but
few, she felt we would have a good time,
for the Lord had promised that where few
meet in His name there He would be to
bless them. She was grateful to the Bishops
for their presence and for the visiting sisters,
Emma S. Woodruff and Minnie H. James,
whom she knew would be glad to be here.
Stated all the wards had been represented
but one. Prayed the choicest blessings on
all.
	President Sarah A. Cazier reported the
First Ward of Nephi as being in a prosper-
ous condition; paid a great tribute to the
teachers and her board in general; stated
they had sold their wheat, and in doing so
they had made 230 bushels of wheat, and
they were always on the alert to have the
wheat in the bins and not the money. She
tried always to take care of everything. She
was well pleased with her Bishop, he was a
good, kind father to her, and they worked in
unity and love.
	President Elizabeth Bigler prayed that the
Spirit of God would be with her to give a
correct report of the Second Ward of Nephi.
She thought they had a noble band of work-
ers, and were doing good wherever they
could. President Mortensen reported the
Levan Ward.
	Choir sang: “Home, Sweet Home.”
	Sister Woodruff said she had traveled a
great deal but had never had the privilege
of meeting with the sisters here before. She
had raised her family and was now raising
children of her son who died in Mexico. She
felt our first duties were to our husbands and
our home and children, realized this was a
noble work, had noticed there were not many
young women here, and urged the Presi-


[Column 1]
dents to get the young mothers out to these
meetings; she knew we would gain just as
much and live as long as those who work
for means; told of the Granite Stake Relief
work, they had missionaries to visit the out-
side world, two sisters to visit the wards and
see how they managed, and if there was
anything better than we have to adopt it in
our meetings and try to improve a little
every year. “Lead the sisters in love, and
drop a kind word or give a smile, it costs
nothing and does a great deal of good.” See
to the little things of life, and be waiting or
looking for the big things. Warned mothers
to look after their children, keep your arms
around them for it is easier to hold them
than to bring them back. We are all tried
in some way or another. Spoke of the
wheat question, advised the sisters to take
care of everything given to them and pre-
pare for a day of scarcity. She was glad to
hear the reports of such unity and love be-
tween officers and Bishops, thought it was
right. Prayed a blessing on all.
	Bishop Parkes addressed the conference,
he had felt impressed to come to this meet-
ing. Said implicit faith in God was the one
great thing for us, for without it we could
not accomplish the work we desired to do.
Compared the Church to a great machinery,
everything must be in its place and work
properly or it won’t go; said it is so with
us, perfect love and harmony must prevail
in order to gain that eternal salvation we
are all working for, the theory and the actual
experience is given to us, and how careful
we should follow this plan. Said it was
beautiful to belong to such an organization,
and unless we improved we will degenerate
and go down. Referred to Mr. Harriman
who has just died, he had left his wealth be-
hind him and he cared very little for his
soul’s salvation, and would it not have been
better for him to have balanced up his
spiritual affairs along with that wealth.
Prayed a blessing on all.
	President Chappell stated after singing
and prayer meeting would adjourn until 2
p. m.
	Minutes of afternoon session September
17th, President Chappelle presiding. Sing-
ing, prayer, etc. The officers were sustained
by unanimous vote.
	President Lena Elert reported the Mona
Ward as being in prosperous condition.
	Sister Minnie H. James said she had en-
joyed listening to the reports they had come
to try and give a word of encouragement
and to see how we were getting along. She
thought if we would send missionaries to
visit those who do not attend and invite
them specially, more of the mothers would
come out to these meetings. Told us to
try and find out what each one was most
adapted to, then give them that to do, and
while we want the young we need the old too,
for we want their wisdom. Spoke of the
excellent way we have of storing our grain.
Anything that was a help to us was the
thing we needed, and we often have a con-
trast to make us appreciate what we have;
thought that if we associated together more
we would know each other better, and have
a broader view of everything; told us to ap-
preciate what we have and not desire to
change, while it is hard to do a great many
things, it may be just what we need after all.
Said if she had dropped a word of encour-
agement to anyone she was paid for the ef-
fort she had made. Prayed the spirit of our
work would be with us.
	Sister S. A. Cazier favored us with a song.
	Bishop Taylor of Levan made a few re-

[Column 2]
marks, complimented the sisters on the
noble work they were doing.
	President J. W. Ord had enjoyed the re-
marks of the sisters and felt the suggestion
from them to send out missionares was a
good one, as there were many who were not
making this work a part of their lives, and
it takes action and sacrifice to live as we
should live; gave good advice to mothers,
and bore a faithful testimony to this work.
	Bishop Pettigrew had listened with great
interest to the remarks of the visiting sis-
ters, said there was no one more capable of
carrying on this work and taking care of the
wheat than the sisters, he could always rely
on them; hoped they would continue in their
noble work.
	Sister James felt there had been so many
good things touched upon she would not de-
tract from that, but she desired to encourage
the sisters to so plan their work that they
might attend their meetings; advised the
mothers to do away with so much fancy
cooking and ironing rufles, warned them to
look after their children; never go to bed
and leave them out and they will thank us
when they are older.
	President Chappell felt we had had a
most glorious meeting and food for reflec-
tion; hoped all would be renewed and have
a desire to attend these meetings spoke in
very high terms of her board of officers and
their willingness to do anything she asked
of them; told of the beautiful organ the
Second Ward had bought with their Sun-
day eggs, and hoped we would continue.
Meeting adjourned for six months. Singing,
“The Sun that Declines.” Prayer by Coun-
selor Priscilla Lunt.
			SARAH COLE, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


