[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | February | Issue: 7 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Harriet Stanton Blatch has sailed for
England, where she will make a study of
the English suffrage movement.
	Mrs. Alice S. Tiernan, formerly of Gal-
veston, Texas, was admitted to the Memphis
bar this month. She studied law after her
marriage, and is in practice with her hus-
band. It is said that Mrs. Tiernan is the
first woman lawyer to practice in the crim-
inal courts of Tennessee. 
	Mrs. Abigail Scott Duniway of Oregon,
Mrs. Emma Smith DeVoe of Washington,
Rev. Olympia Brown of Wisconsin, Miss
Jean Gordon of Louisiana, Mrs. Robert E.
Kirkland of Georgia, Mrs. Joseph Howell of
Utah, and Mrs. Clara B. Arthur and Mrs.
Huntley Russell of Michigan were among
the women appointed by the governors of
their respective states as delegates to the re-
cent great conference in Washington, D. C.
A writer in the Washington Times noted the
fact that they were all active suffragists.
Several were the presidents of their State
Suffrage Associations. They were given a
reception at 1823 H street by the suffragists
of Washington.
	In an interview recently printed Mrs.
Amelia E. Barr, the novelist, thus frankly
declared her attitude on the suffrage ques-
tion.
	“It was rather provoking, on our last election
day in Cornwall, to see absolutely ignorant,
swearing, brutal negroes voting on my
taxes, while I could not say a word.” She is
reported as saying. “Also I have had a boy
about the place who can neither read nor
write, who is not capable of learning leave
his work to vote, while I who know what
responsibilities are attached to the ballot,
who own property, and am in every way a
profitable citizen, must pay whatever these
imbeciles impose on me. I can sympathize
with the bitter sense of injustice women of
large wealth feel on the subject.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

