[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: General Relief Society Conference | Author: Unknown]

GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The Annual Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assem-
ble Hall, Thursday, April 5, 1906, com-
mencing at 10 a. m., President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding. Prof. Charles Kent
rendered as a solo the beautiful hymn,
“I know that my Redeemer lives,” Mrs.
Kent accompanying him upon the organ.
The effect of the singing was very uplift-
ing. Prayer was offered by Sister Susan
Grant. Congregation sang, “Now let us
rejoice in the day of salvation,” etc.
Sister Annie Wells Cannon, secretary
pro tem, called the roll of General Offic-
ers and Presidents of Stakes. There was
an excellent representation from the sev-
eral stakes and a very large congregation
for a morning session.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith wel-
comed the congregation in a few words of
encouragement and greeting, and signified
her wish that the Presidents of Stakes
report, as there were many present, and
called upon those from a distance. Snow-
flake was reported by Sister Jeannette
M. Smith, treasurer. The settlements in
that stake are scattered, considerable dis-
tance to travel, the presidency visit all
the wards regularly, the average attend-
ance at meetings is very good. There

[Column 2]
are many lovely little homes in Snow-
flake; the sisters have no particular way
to get means to help those who travel
around, but a little troop of young folks
gave some home dramatic performances
and gave the Relief Society sisters fifty
dollars; the society own a carriage, but
have to hire horses when they travel, rec-
ently they raised means and bought a
cow and gave to a poor family that they
had to provide for. They have one visit
a year from the General Board, whichi s
much appreciated. The speaker felti t
was a great privilege to be here, though
she had to come a long distance to attend
the conference.
	President Julia P. Lindsey reported
Bear Lake Stake, she had presided there
now many years, and felt glad to be able
to come to the conference, and report the
sisters were improving in every way;
spoke of the temporal conditions, and of
her enjoyment in visiting among the sis-
ters and holding district conferences, she
was proud to represent the stake; thought
the Relief Society the grandest organiza-
tion in the world, worth all the efforts we
could possibly make for its onward pro-
gress.
	Alberta Stake was reported by Sister
Rhoda Hinman as heing in a very pros-
perous condition, quite an increase in
members, and it covered a great deal of
ground, 200 miles a[-]ound, they visited
once a year, and the nearer branches
twice a year; she felt the sisters were do-
ing well.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth, a mem-
ber of the General Board, was delighted
to see such a fine attendance at a morn-
ing session; spoke of our living in a great
and important age when everything
seems advancing rapidly, education, art
and the sciences, and in the midst of it
all there are many more cares and anx-
ieties in regard to our children; there is
greater responsibilities for the mothers
because with the growth of knowledge
and intelligence, the mothers must keep
abreast of the times to be able to discuss
various subjects and enter into all the
topics of the day and the hour. Truth is
ever onward; but above all let us be true
to ourselves then we can help others;
Sister Farnsworth alluded to the sisters
who had done so much for the great work
in which we are engaged, she appreciated
what they had accomplished for those
younger women who are now coming into
the ranks, her remarks, though brief,
were very excellent.
	Counselor Rose Hammond spoke for
Tooele Stake. everything was in good
working order, they had a good amount
of wheat, three very comfortable Relief
Society meeting houses; they had recently
undertaken the mothers work, had not
visited much during the winter, but in-
tended to now the spring had come.
	Counselor Ellen Thueson of Sevier
Stake, was very happy to be in our midst.
she felt paid for coming, just to hear the
opening hymn, it was so beautiful; in 
their stake they visited all around once a
year; she told us of the financial condi-
tion, and how much wheat they had gath-
ered last fall, felt they had made quite a
success of the mothers’ work, thought the
sisters were doing the very best they
could in all directions.
	President B. W. Smith addressed the
sisters for a few minutes, referring to her
desire to know of the mothers’ work;


[Column 1]
said she was glad it had been mentioned,
she was anxious it should be carried
on right, under the direction of the presi-
dent of the society and not make it a
separate affair.
	President Bathsheba B. Grundy of
Wayne Stake appreciated the privilege
of being present, she had a hard trip to
reach here, but felt repaid already with
what she had heard; felt in Wayne Stake
there was a good band of noble sisters
working in unison; they had mothers’
work in testimony meetings, we have
four Relief Society halls and five granar-
ies, we are doing our best to store grain,
hoped to be able to do her duty in the
position to which she had been called.
	Sister Hannah H. Romney, from Dub-
lan, Mexico, reported conditions in that
country, felt the people were prosper-
ous and progressing, the mothers’ work
was getting along very nicely in the Re-
lief Society, she thought the elder sisters
should encourage the young women to
come to these meetings; their teachers
down there never fail to visit all around
once a month, and carry a very good
spirit into the homes.
	Woodruff Stake was reported by Pearl
M. Brough, secretary, she felt proud to
represent the stake, scattered over six
hundred miles, and no railroad, it was
hard to visit, but always enjoyable; she
told of the financial condition and said
they had expended a great deal to help
the sufferers in mine explosions and other
accidents. Mothers’ work was doing
well in that stake, her report was quite
interesting.
	President Eliza J. Dixon of Nebo Stake
spoke of conditions in their locality being
different to many others, as a part of the
stake was in mining districts, and not
agriculture like those reported, consequent-
ly raised no grain, had some cash to buy
wheat with, and in the past some wheat
had been disposed of to build good gran-
naries; “there are nine granaries in our
stake and four Relief Society halls, we
visit three times a year, in every ward
we hold quarterly conferences in differ-
ent parts of the stake; have very good
officer’s meetings, once a month; our
Society meetings are held twice a month,
we are doing all we can for advancement,
studying theology and also have mothers’
work in the testimony meetings; we are
getting more new members in some of
the wards the young sisters are taking
an active part.”
	Secretary pro tem, Sister A. W. Can-
non, read a letter from the First Presi-
dency about the storing of grain by the
sisters.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke a
few minutes, she felt more than pleased
to see the house so well filled, it showed
that the Relief Society was growing, she
had been a member of the Society since
1843, it was not always so large as it is
now, she believed all the sisters of the
Relief Society were doing a good work,
we all feel at times that we cannot get
around, but she thought we ought to do
all we could for those who are cast down,
we feel happy when we do these works of
charity, this was the Savior’s teaching,
and we will be blest in doing this good
work, there is a blessing that follows, “I
have many times gone into homes where
things were not pleasant, but when I left
I felt there was a good spirit there, it was
the Spirit of the Lord that came with

[Column 2]
the humble effort made to do good to
those in need of encouragement. I can-
not go among the people as much as I
desire to, because there is not time
enough, but I am glad to do what I can,
and thankful to be here today, and I
hope we will all be able to go home
safely, let us do all we can, it cannot be
too much, there is so much to be done,
let us above all love one another, and
love our neighbors, and we will be blest
if we strive to do these things.”
	Summit Stake reported by the Presi-
dent, Celestia Y. Pack, who was glad to
be in this large assembly of Saints, her
stake was quite a large one, some of the
branches were in mining camps, they all
held meetings uniform; sewing and testi-
mony, also Stake board and officers’
meetings once a month, we hold these in
different parts of the Stake, in connection
with the Priesthood meetings; we have
six granaries in our Stake, and a large
amount of real estate, we visit all around
once a year, our board visits once a
month, our missionaries visit from one
ward to another once a month, one con-
ference during the year where we have
visitors from the General Board. We
have enjoyed the mothers work, have
had lectures that might be read any-
where, we have brought some young sis-
ters in through the mothers’ work.
	President B. W. Smith adjourned the
Conference until 2 p. m. and announced
an evening session at 7:30, congregation
standing sang, “Lord dismiss us with thy
blessing,” and the benediction was given
by President Emma S. Woodruff.

	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.,
President B. W. Smith presiding. Prof.
Thomas and members of the Temple
choir furnished the music, congregation
joined them in singing “O, say what is
truth, etc. Prayer by Dr. Romania B.
Penrose. The Temple quartette rendered
very beautifully, “Pray, sweet to my
soul.” President B. W. Smith was grati-
fied to see such a grand audience, she
had always been taught that the Relief
Society was the grandest auxiliary organ-
ization in the Church, and believed it,
thought we were doing pretty well as a
society, and expressed her belief in union
and love among the sisters; if there is any
feeling, ask forgiveness, and if there is a
proper spirit manifest it will do good. We
must try to live our religion and do all
the good we can, both for the living, the
dying and the dead. I don’t believe in
long speeches, and there are many here
to speak, and some have come from very
long distances and there is not much
time; the reports are to be limited to a
few minutes, I pray the Lord to bless all
this congregation and I bless you for
coming and may we have a good time
this afternoon, and the Spirit of the Lord
be with us.
	President Andrew Kimball from St.
Joseph Stake, reported the Relief Soci-
ety of that Stake in the absence of
President Elizabeth Layton, he spoke
very highly of Sister Layton and her
Counselors, as being united and diligent
in their work for the good of the sisters,
they have the opportunity of holding a
Conference every Priesthood day. They
have two Conferences, in June and De-
cember, and they do appreciate the visits
of the sisters from here very much. In
the wards the organizations are well

[Column 3]
posted and are the greatest helps to the
Bishops; they are not able to store wheat
in that warm climate, the weevils get into
it right away; the sisters have been great
benefactors to the community by loaning
the grain to the farmers, and thousands
of bushels of grain have been raised by
means of their kindness in lending the
grain for seed. Some time ago, during
the Spanish war, some of the boys were
not well provided for, and were getting
scurvy through lack of proper food. I
was written to, to know if the Relief Soci-
ety could help them, and our Relief Soci-
ety in Arizona fitted up a great many
boxes of bedding and good food and also
put in some money and we forwarded it
to the proper authorities to be distributed
to them, and much suffering was saved
through their charitable efforts at that
time. President Kimball said much in
praise of the Society in that locality and his
words were admirably suited to the occa-
sion.
	President Mary E. Schofield spoke of
Union Stake, where she presides, with
considerable pride and good feeling, felt
as it was a young Stake, the activity of
the sisters was deserving of recognition.
She and her associates visit in the valley
twice a year, and those branches that are
farther away, once a year. We have
some wheat and some money to buy
more, but have no granary as yet; we are
endeavoring to do the best we can in
taking care of it. We are doing well in
mothers’ work, using the outline formu-
lated by Union Stake. The Stake is
building a large tabernacle and some of
the wards are helping in this, we have but
few poor, but have assisted a number who
are helped by the Stake Presidency.
	President Isabelle E. Robinson of Mil-
lard Stake was pleased to mingle her
voice with the sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety, this grand organization, she had ad-
vocated a good fellowship meeting, felt
that would be a good place to drop every
enemity and get into harmony with one
another. Sister Robinson spoke of the
temporal condition of the Society, but
mentioned also the mothers’ work and
the Book of Mormon study; they have
five halls for meeting purposes, and five
granaries.
	Cassia Stake reported by Counselor
Alice Sessions; thought all the branches
were doing fairly well, of the ten wards
nearly all had granaries, a good attend-
ance of members at the Conferences.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder was introduced
to speak upon Utah goods, said she had
taken hold of this movement to get home
manufactured goods upon the market,
stated that our market was flooded with
imported goods. After speaking earnest-
ly for two or three minutes on the subject
Sister Alder announced a meeting to be
held in Barratt Hall at the close of the
afternoon meeting and invited all present
to attend and hear this matter fully dis-
cussed upon its merits.
		(To be Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Mrs. Clara B. Colby recently completed
a trip in behalf of the suffrage amend-
ment that covered twenty-four days in
eastern Oregon. She addressed twenty-
two meetings, rode eight hundred miles
by rail and two hundred by stage, visited
mining towns, distributed literature and
made friends and converts wherever she
went.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
