VOL. 31 NO. 11 Lessons for February NOVEMBER 1944

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Belle S. Spafford Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Donna D. Sorensen
Achsa E. Paxman
Gertrude R. Garff
Priscilla L. Evans
Vivian R. McConkie
Mary G. Judd
Leona F. Wintch
Florence J. Madsen
Leda T. Jensen
Luella N. Adams
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Rae B. Barker
Marianne C. Sharp
Pauline T. Pingree
Agnes M. Bolto
Nellie O. Parker
Anna B. Hart
Alice B. Castleton
Leone G. Layton
Anna S. Barlow

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Associate Editor Marianne C. Sharp
General Manager Amy Brown Lyman

Vol. 31 NOVEMBER 1944 No. 11

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
The Pearl of Great Price Elder Joseph Fielding Smith 611
Why a Singer Should Keep the Word of Wisdom Emma Lucy Gates Bowen 613
For Thy Bounties Marguerite J. Griffin 616
Money Isn't Everything Olive C. Wehr 618
Finland Dr. Leland Hargrave Creer 620
What an Old Trunk May Bring Forth William R. Palmer
Ironing Procedures Claire P. Dorius 657

FICTION
Forward, Without Fear (Chapter IV) Dorothy Clapp Robinson 643

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 609
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 629
Editorials: Birthday Greetings to President Heber J. Grant President Amy Brown Lyman 630
Wise Spending Counselor Belle S. Spafford 631
Notes to the Field 632
Notes from the Field: Relief Society War and Welfare Services in Missions (Continued)
General Secretary-Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman 650

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: The Kirtland Period Dr. H. Wayne Driggs 659
Visiting Teachers' Messages: Blessed Are The Merciful Elder Bryant S. Hinckley 663
Literature: Gospel Literature of St. John Dr. Howard R. Driggs 664
Social Science: Freedom and Responsibility Dr. Howard T. Christensen 668

POETRY
Thankful Thoughts Gertrude Perry Stanton 612
In November Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 628
All These Remain Betty Wall Madsen 638
Superscription Jessie Miller Robinson 658
God's Garden Daphne Jemmett 672

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 71,000

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 31, NO. 1 NOVEMBER 1944 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponents, October 1, and October 15, 1884 "The RIGHTs OF THE WOMEN OF ZION, AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS" What Women Are Doing: A statue to a woman has been unveiled recently in New Orleans. The first erected to a woman in the United States. It is to Margaret Houhgery, who devoted her immense wealth to the care of orphan children. Women took out patents during the week ending September 30, 1884, as follows:. Heat Indicator for ovens... Combined bureau and bedstead; also combined folding bedstead and table.... The following patents were granted to women:... Improved Gridiron... Fruit Press... Device for raising and lowering windows.—Ex. * *e % Editorial Notes: We gratefully acknowledge a beautiful bouquet of choice late flowers, which came like a sunbeam, from Mrs. Jane Holt of East Bountiful; also some pretty, sweet-scented wild flowers and gaily colored Autumn leaves, from little Caroline Crocheron.  Salt Lake City Hospitals. Mrs. B. Spurlock: "For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven the same is my brother and sister and mother," prompted me to seek out those whose hearts were tender and true to suffering humanity; that I might clasp hands with them and whisper a word of comfort to those whose keeping was entrusted to their care in this city. First in course I came to St. Marks Hospital, well governed methought... Here we found the kind, intelligent gentlewoman, Mrs. Prout, in the keeping of the same, who has given direction and carried it forward for years. Every where an atmosphere of comfort and quiet and continuous attention is to be observed... Next I visited the "Hospital of the Holy Cross." This name, too, is talismanic, and no misnomer, wide spreading grounds beautifully designed, and a magnificent building, delighting the eye of the passer-by and cheering the incoming patients. Here "'Sisters of the Sacred Heart" are moving up and down the commodious halls, in and out of the wards with noiseless tread". Third, and last in our course, came the "Deseret Hospital"... Here we find the old Deseret University converted into an "infirmary," giving to its inmates large, airy rooms, well arranged and a delightful ventilation. An air of home-like feeling you on its very threshold. See I will say of these homes for the afflicted: They have no holidays or ' red tape"... I have ever found the same watchful vigilance and tender care being evinced.. On his eighty-fourth birthday, Mr. George Bancroft received congratulations from all parts of the world, cablegrams coming from Germany, England, and France, The Cover: The cover is from a photograph of the bridge in Liberty Park, Salt Lake City, Utah. I love moonlight on the Mountains Though it is somber scene, There's no riot of bright Colors, Just a grayish slivery sheen All about is Peace and quiet Very restful, as a whole. Though it doesn't feed the senses, It is manna to the soul, There's no music from the Say birds, They're half sleeping in their nests, And the gaudy, vivid flowers Don a gray robe while at rest, But the silhouettes and shadows Sketched in shady black and white Seem to Soothe my troubled Spirits, Seem to calm my fears and fright. As I look upon the beauty Of this scene, to me so dear, To all Nature I feel closer, And I know that God is Near. The Pearl of Great Price Elder Joseph Fielding Smith Member of the Council of the Twelve THE Pearl of Great Price is the Here is the title of a small volume which has been accepted by the Church as one of the standard works. It is a compilation of "revelations, translations, and narrations," taken from the history and inspired writings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The first edition was published in Liverpool by Franklin D. Richards, who was then presiding in the European Mission, in the year 1851. The first edition contained a number of excerpts and revelations which were later eliminated because they appear in the Doctrine and Covenants. These are: "A key to the revelation of John," section 77 in the Doctrine and Covenants; the prophecy on war, section 87, Doctrine and Covenants; passages from sections 20, 107, 27; and the hymn by Elder John Jacques—"O Say, What Is Truth?" In this compilation the prophecy on war, which was given Christmas Day, 1832, was published for the first time, and it will be seen this was ten years before the rebellion of South Carolina.
The recent editions of the Pearl of Great Price have been divided into the following divisions: (1) The Book of Moses, which is a portion of the revision made by the Prophet Joseph Smith of the Bible, commencing with the "Visions of Moses," containing the words which the Lord "spake... at a time when Moses was caught up into an exceedingly high mountain." (2) The Book of Abraham. (3) Writings of Joseph Smith, containing "an Extract from a Translation of the Bible, Being the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, commencing with the last verse of the twenty-third chapter, King James' Version," and excerpts from the history of Joseph Smith, and" (4) The Articles of Faith.
The revision of the Bible by revelation commenced shortly after the organization of the Church and when Sidney Rigdon came into the Church he was called to act as scribe for the Prophet. The additional scripture which we have received in these few pages, which comprise about as much as does the Book of Mark, is of the greatest value to the Church because of the additional light which is revealed concerning the history and doctrine of those early times before the flood, making known the fact that the fulness of the gospel was given to Adam and his posterity. In this record many of the precious truths which were taken away have been restored.
The Book of Abraham is a translation of a record kept by Abraham which came into the hands of the Prophet Joseph Smith in a miraculous manner while he was residing in Kirtland, Ohio. The papyrus on which this record was written came from the catacombs of Egypt and was purchased by the saints. The detailed account of how this happened will not relate, for it has been published several times and can be found in the History of the 612 Church, Vol. 2, pages 235, 236, 348, 349 and 350. It is also given in the M.I.A. Course of Study, Adult Department for the year 1938-39. The Church has accepted the writings of Moses and the writings of Abraham as revelations to Joseph Smith, as glorious additions to the doctrines of the Church. It is becoming a popular teaching that Moses did not write the Book of Genesis, but that it is a compilation of several authors giving different accounts of the matters which this Book contains. It is interesting to the Latter-day Saints to read the words of the Lord to Moses in relation to the teachings of our times, which he received by RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1944 prophecy. To him the Lord said: And, now, Moses, my son, I will speak unto thee concerning this earth upon which thou standest; and thou shalt write the things which I shall speak. And in a day when the children of men shall esteem my words as naught and take many of them from the book which thou shalt write, behold, I will raise up another like unto thee; and they shall be had again among the children of men—among as many as shall believe. That one who was to be raised up is the Prophet Joseph Smith, and we should be humbly grateful that the Lord has fulfilled his words to Moses, through the Prophet of the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times. THANKFUL THOUGHTS Gertrude Perry Stanton November is not bleak and drear Though trees are gaunt and winds are chill; Around the hearth is warmth and cheer, When ice-bound is each lake and rill. The books that one has longed to read, The friends who come to chat, will bring To these gray, shortened days their meed Of joy bright as spring's blossoming. And when has come that day of days While dear ones gather in the home To feast, and render grateful praise For good things past and still to come, We thank thee, God, for all thy gifts, Cherished in wintry days like these; True friendships held from year to year, And Oh, thank him for families! Why A Singer Should Keep the Word of Wisdom Emma Lucy Gates Bowen ' E who were children fifty years ago kept the Word of Wisdom because our parents taught us that it had been revealed by the Lord to Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Then, later, many of us who went to Europe to study and travel learned its importance through experience. When I was on the boat making my first trip across the Atlantic Ocean I was very seasick, and was confined to my stateroom for several days. I was on a small steamer that took ten days to cross the ocean, and the boat pitched and rolled considerably. When I reached the deck, I was white from nausea and weak from lack of food. I was an object of pity to my fellow passengers, and the word of my illness soon reached the ears of the ship's doctor. In due time, the deck boy came along with a glass of sparkling yellow liquid and offered it to me. I gave one look at it and said, "Take your beer away, Tannie; I want none of it." "Beer!" he said very disgustedly, "this is not beer, but champagne, - the finest thing we have on the boat. The doctor says you must take it!" So I drank it; and while it settled my stomach, its other affects were anything but desirable. That was my introduction to the wines of Europe. Although I tasted other kinds while there, the occasions were rare; I realized I could not make a practice of using them. I had read enough to know that all wines and liquors are drying to the throat as well as exhilarating to the' heart, and that when one is standing before the public to sing in opera, they make him more nervous than he is already. Had I not already been convinced by the teachings of my childhood and the reading of my young womanhood, I would have been won over to the ill effects of using liquor by the advice of my colleagues when I reached the opera house where I made my debut, for they said, "I see you are not taking anything to drink before going on the stage, Miss Gates." I answered that I never had, and that I did not believe in doing so. Then they urged, "Never begin it, for if you do, you will regret it." I remember the second time I had liquor offered me. It was after I had been in Germany about eight months. I had the great privilege of going to the graduating banquet with Dr. John A. Widtsoe, my brother-in-law, who was receiving his doctor's degree from Gottingen, one of Europe's greatest universities. It was an elegant affair, and with the first course red wine was offered. I said, "No, thank you." The young man on my left said, "Oh, perhaps you prefer white wine?" Again I said, "No, thank you." Then he urged, "Let me get you some beer." Again I said, "I don't drink that either." "Oh," he said, "You are Page 613 614 a teetotaler." "Yes," I answered, much relieved. "Then let me get you a cup of coffee or tea," he graciously offered. When I replied again, "I don't drink them either," he glared at me and said, "What do you drink?" "Water," I answered. "Water!" he yelled. "Why water is for washing, not for drinking." And with quite a bit of trouble and fanfare I finally got a glass of water. AS to smoking. I have never had the least desire to even try it. In Germany I never saw a woman smoke, and at the opera house many of the men did not smoke, and those who did always refrained from so doing during the day when they were to sing at night. In my opinion, smoking is especially bad for women. When young girls or women come to me to learn to sing, I can always tell if they are coffee drinkers or cigarette smokers. If they drink excessively of coffee, they are nervous and cannot concentrate. If they are smokers, their voices are husky and even hoarse. I wait for a few lessons to be sure their indisposition is not from a cold (to which they usually attribute it), and then I say, "Do you smoke by any chance?" And if they say, "Yes," I then tell them they must choose between smoking and singing, because the two just don't go together—for women at least.. Smoking makes the voice dry and with an edge, as well as making it hard to produce clear tones. Some students have given up smoking; others have been unable to do so and have dropped out of the singing race. I understand that once one has acquired the habit, it is almost impossible to overcome it. I remember hearing our beautiful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1944 and gracious Mrs. Smoot, wife of our Senator and Apostle Reed Smoot, tell about a luncheon given in the White House in Washington, D. C., especially in her honor. She and the President's wife, Mrs. Hoover, were the only two women at the table who were not smoking. The lady on her left said, "I see you don't smoke, Mrs. Smoot." Mrs. Smoot answered, "No, I never have." "Don't ever begin. I wish I had never acquired the habit," said the lady. I also remember my Aunt Nettie Easton telling me that someone (I think it was her father, Brigham Young) said to her, "Daughter, if you never drink tea and coffee you will never have wrinkles in your face." Now, of course, we know of many dear old ladies who have kept the word of wisdom faithfully and yet they have some wrinkles; and some persons who have observed the word of wisdom have died young, nevertheless, that does not alter the fact that our Latter-day Saint women who have observed the Word of Wisdom have, as a rule, looked fresher and lived longer than those of the world who indulge in stimulants. How hard and dried up the skin of the face of a modern young smoking woman looks. You can tell the smoker almost every time. My Aunt Nett lived to be over eighty years of age and kept her beautiful complexion, her wit, and sprightly step until the last. I remember that all the years that she worked in the office of the Genealogical Society she did not use eyeglasses even when searching through record books or newspapers, which was her special task. I recall that one day when she and one of her friends, who was WHY A SINGER SHOULD KEEP THE WORD OF WISDOM twenty years her junior, were walking down town in New York City on a hot July day, the friend turned to Aunt Nett and said, "How old did you say you were, Nett?" And Nett replied, "Seventy-eight." The friend then said, "I wish to heaven you were 104, because you are walking me to death." Now, I feel sure, that my keeping of the word of wisdom contributed in large measure to my success in my musical career, and that it is responsible for my well-being at the present time. And if I had not grown so fat with eating too much good food (which, in a way, is breaking the part of the word of wisdom which indicates that we should use things in moderation), I know I would be  as well and as active as I was at forty. I am now sixty-three years old (telling my age for the benefit of those who saw my picture in The Relief Society Magazine, June July 1943, p. 367, among those of the wives of the Church authorities. This picture was taken when the public knew me best, and was chosen by your editor—not by me). I hope to keep the word of wisdom more fully and to lose some of my weight, so I can live some years yet to enjoy my loved ones, God's beautiful mountains and valleys here in Utah, and to do more good than I have done in the past. Now, let me tell one more experience of mine. The reader must forgive my talking so much about myself, but I was asked to give some of my experiences in life related to the word of wisdom, and not to give a dissertation on the subject nor talk of its value from a dietetic standpoint. Some years ago, I was asked to visit 615 Glendale and be soloist with the Los Angeles orchestra which was giving a concert there. I am sure Professor Altschuller, the conductor, expected to hear a worn-out prima donna, because so many of my confreres or singers of that time had left the stage and their voices showed great wear and tear, and he was not enthusiastic about having me. Well, we started out on the "mad scene" from the opera Lucia by Donizetti, and I sailed right through it in the original key, going up to high E flat above high C with ease in the cadenza with the flute. When I finished, he put his conductor's stick down on the stand and turned to me; and before those eighty men and women of the orchestra he said, "Let me see, Miss Gates, it must be fifteen years since I heard you, is it not?" I answered, "Yes, I think it is, Mr. Altschuller." "Well," he said, "your voice is as lovely as ever. In fact it sounds like that of a girl of twenty. Will you tell me how you do it?" I was taken aback a bit I can tell you. Then the answer came to me, and I said, “Herr Conductor, I have never dissipated (by that I had in mind drinking, smoking, and loose living) "and I know how to sing." "I'll tell the world you do," he said. "Proceed, gentlemen, with the next aria" (which was the Lakme Bell song). Now I want to leave my testimony with you. Correct living, according to the word of God to Joseph Smith and the men who have followed him. And according to the word of those whom he has inspired with the new truths of science and nutrition, pays dividends. When we break the rules of health or of the spirit we have to pay to the utmost farthing. For Thy Bounties Marguerite 66 OTHER, I want to tell you about something that happened at school." It was my oldest son. May he never get too old to tell me things! May I never be too busy, nor hurried to listen! "Well, you know we usually have current events first. Thing 1 the morning, but today the teacher said more I gasped went on. "Then she asked how many of us say grace at home, and, Mother, out of the whole room I was the only one to raise my hand." His eyes were wide with wonder. "Well, Son, there must have been others who live in homes where ace is said. Perhaps they just Jacked courage to admit it after the had so emphatically expressed her opinion." And that ls what I'd like to believe. I hope that schoolroom does not represent 4 typical cross section of this great nation. Bow your head in gratitude for the plentiful plates of nourishing food that you consume three times a day? Have you forgotten your Pilgrim Fathers who, after their first harvest, themselves on bended knee to give thanks to God their Heavenly Father, who had rewarded their efforts in this new land with the needs for sustaining life? Page 616 . Griffin They were mindful of him who had sent the sun and rain upon the earth, that it might give forth its abundance. 'They had felt his protection in the trial they had passed through and now, in their plenty, they did -not forget. Yes, because of them we have our Thanksgiving Day once a years but to many of us it has become synonymous with turkey, plum puddings, and pies. I have sat at bounteous spreads in many homes, grateful for the. Associations of friends, grateful for companionship, smelling the savory odors of appetizing food, enjoying the happy conversation, and there has not been one moment's pause to give thanks to anticipation for food. And yet not 4 guest would leave until he had thanked his hostess and praised her wonderful meal. It would have been the greatest preach of etiquette not to have 'zed the gifted hands who had done the cooking or, at least, had planned it. She had made the most of every flavor and spice. She them harmoniously. She had served them so they were an art to the eye as well as to the Yes, praise her, indeed. But who gave life to the turkey? Who gave flavor and color to the vegetables, orange to the cat rot, green to the peas, white to the potato? Who gave richness to the grain, and sweetness to the sugar beet? FOR THY BOUNTIES Had he not done his part where would Our hostess have been? Yet, three times a day some sit down to this miracle of nature without a word, THE Words of the Prayer matter little, if they come from the heart. What counts most is the gratitude, the appreciation that bursts into glowing warmth in the soul, the peace of mind that soothes tired nerves. Gratitude is to the heart as rain to the flower. It makes all its beauty glitter with a brightness greater than diamonds. Without the ability to appreciate, which is a finer form of gratitude, a man cannot truly love. He cannot respond with joy to the beauties of life and nature. And
there is nothing more necessary than to be grateful for the common things of daily living. We Americans have had so much. Our land has yielded harvest after harvest so abundantly, that some have fallen into the lethargy of taking it all for granted. A warm glass of milk, a bright red, ripe tomato, juicy and cold— We forget what miracles they really are! We take a morsel and leave the rest half eaten on our plates. We butter a piece of bread heavily and leave the crust, bread which only last season was a golden sheaf of grain, warmed by the sun, nurtured by the rain. If the sun had been too hot too long, if the rain had
never come, or, if coming, had never given way to the blue of sky, the grain might not have been. And then the bread? We do not think of that. We only know that each day we have our bread. We think we will always have our bread, but
"man does not live by bread alone." 617 Remember the Story of the Savior feeding the five thousand with five loaves and two fishes? And Jesus took the loaves; and when
he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would. When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. Therefore they gathered them together, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten.  There's the story complete, with a brevity modern narrators should envy. The importance of this story to me is not, however, in the miraculous feeding of the five thousand. It is in the Man who was their host. The Man who gave thanks for the food, and then when it was eaten sent his
disciples forth to gather up the fragments “that nothing be lost." This
very act establishes him as a Man different and superior to other men. Call to your mind men who magnanimously flaunt their wealth before the people. Is it not natural for a person such as this, elevating himself in his own power, hoping to
be esteemed in the eyes of his fellows to say: “Oh, don’t bother with the remnants. There is more where that came from." Not so with the Son of God. His appreciation of the things of life was great enough that he gave thanks upon food he had the power to magnify a thousand times, and then he carefully gathered up what was left "That nothing might be lost” – and that twelve baskets full. So then— "In everything give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you." Money Isn't Everything Olive C. Wehr “I wish you wouldn't go, Alice." Jack Hayden's big, work-hardened hands lifted in a brief gesture of appeal, then dropped hopelessly as he concluded, "Money isn't everything." His young wife bent her auburn head to examine the worn knee of a pair of her son's brown cords, then folded them decisively into the large, shabby family suitcase spread open on the bed. "Do we have to go all over that again?" she asked wearily. "Just because you are rooted to the 'good earth' is no reason I should go on grubbing my life away, doing without things, getting older, wearing last year's clothes—" She stopped abruptly to search hastily for a handkerchief. Jack's face reddened, and his Adam's apple moved convulsively. Fifteen years ago when he had married the pretty, impetuous, little district school teacher, some years his junior, his mother had prophesied that she would not be content for long to remain on the ranch. He had scoffed at the idea then, and the years had passed swiftly and uneventfully. Now it seemed that the break had come. Maybe it was the war, he reasoned to himself. It did things to folks. Alice had never been like this before. "Listen, honey, this has been an unusually dry year," he explained in his slow, patient drawl. "Got to expect a lean year now and then. Next year, like as not, there'll be bumper Page 618 crops, and then we can start buildin' an'—" "That's precisely what you said last year," she flung at him, her dark eyes flashing. "But I don't aim for you to work," he began. "No use arguing, Jack," she retorted, snapping shut the lock on the bulging suitcase. "My mind is made up. If you won't leave the ranch and go out to the Coast where you could make all kinds of money, with half the work, then I'll go alone! I'll stay with Mable. She has an apartment and the two boys can play together while we are away working— they're old enough." "If you will go," he groaned, "then leave the boy here with me. It's no place for him." "Don't be selfish, Jack," she commanded. "He will have opportunities he has never had before—city schools, music, everything he can't have here. Don't you see? It's for his sake I want to earn money, lots of it, and give him a chance in life. He is getting older now, and he is beginning to need things we can't afford." She turned to him and laid her head against his arm. "Jack, don't be selfish," she pleaded. "Can't you see it is best for him and for me? Won't you come with us? You could get work. You have lived on this ranch all your life—you're just afraid." He shook his head. "It's not that," he said slowly. "I can't exactly explain. I've always wanted the boy to grow up here as I did." MONEY ISN'T EVERYTHING 619 “And never get anywhere in life!” she flared. "No, Jack, it takes money" Maybe, Alice, it's like the Big Book says, 'Money is the root of all evil/ The desire for money—"If you quote that again, I'll scream!" she interrupted defiantly. "Listen, I can quote scripture, too. 'As a man soweth, so shall he reap, but I note you sowed wheat last year in the wheat field, and all you reaped was thistle and wild mustard. . . . O Jack, I'm sorry! I'm just overwrought." "Hi, Mom, we got a letter!" A whirlwind of a boy with long,
coltish legs, and a thatch of red hair burst into the room. In one hand he carried an air-mail letter and in the other a half-eaten carrot. Alice took the letter mechanical-"It's from Mable," she commented. "She said she would write me
bus connections." "Mom, when we go out to Seattle, may Bill and I go to the movies every night?" asked the boy eagerly. "No, of course not! Not every
night," she replied crossly. "Well, what will there be to do then?" he demanded.
"Maybe you better stay here. Son, with me," his father said softly. The boy stopped crunching his carrot, and stood, legs far apart, looking from one parent to the other. Both stood silent, tightlipped and pale. Understanding dawned at last in the boy's bright blue eyes, and he rushed from the room, sobbing brokenly. Slowly Jack faced his wife. "I guess you're right," he admitted thickly. "Ed better go with you —for the boy's sake. Phone Abner, tell him the ranch is for sale— at his figure." "Jack, darling!" Alice cried, and ran to throw herself into his arms; but he brushed blindly past her. She followed him out onto the long, cool porch, and watched him as he strode across the meadow to
Where the boy lay, face down, in the Alice wiped her eyes. The dear goose, she thought. She wouldn't have gone without him. A woman had to force her husband's hand sometimes, just as Mable had said. He would be better off, once she got him away from the ranch. Then they would begin living— marvelous wages-good times-every advantage for the boy. It would be nice seeing Mable and George again, too. It had been frightfully lonely since they had moved away some months ago. How she had missed the friendly smoke that used to wave a silent greeting
to her daily from the chimney of the roof she could see rising above the hill beyond the pasture gate! Her husband and son were coming toward the house now, arm in arm. She noted for the first time that Jack's shoulders sagged as he
walked. He looked old, defeated, and suddenly strange, she reflected in some alarm. At the yard gate, he and the boy turned for a long look at the sunset
beyond the purple-shadowed hills to the west. They both loved those wooded hills where they had so often gone fishing and hunting together. They were daily growing more companionable, she thought gratefully, (Continued on page 649) . Finland WHEN, on June 25, 1944, pro-German Risto Ryti, president of F inland, and Pre. Mier Edwin Linkomies, without the approval of Parliament, officially announced that an agreement had been reached with German Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop and Field Marshal General Wilhelm Keitel, as a result of which complete collaboration between the two count the Republic precarious, if not hopeless. For, as a result of this denouement, the Finns not only find themselves estranged from and at War with their erstwhile friends and admirers, but Practically precluded from the Possibility of negotiating any satisfactory peace with Russia. Furthermore, as an open ally of the Nazis, it is not expected that the Allied Powers, even if inclined to do so, will be able, at the future Peace Conference, to convince the Soviet Union that complete national restored. The crisis caused a mild revolution in Finland itself, which resulted, on August 1st, in the deposition of Risto Ryti and in the election of the aged, but colorful, Baron Carl Gustaf Mannerheim as his successor,: By its decision Nazi leaders, the neighbors, a hatred which dates back to the seventeenth century when the people fear that without the active Support of some strong power, that their country will be occupied by the Red Army, that the elite of the country will b and Asiatic Russia, just as the elite of the Baltic states of eastern Poland regardless of the justice or injustice of its Cause, the fact remains that the unhappy Republic is caught pitifully between the h lemma. Regardless of the outcome, the continued existence of the country as an independent, national state is seriously threatened. FINLAND a CZECHOSLOVAKIA ARCTIC OCEAN RUSSIA POLAND — —Drawing by Evan Jensen FINLAND In order to understand clearly the implications of the present Russo-Finnish War, it will be necessary to review, in some detail, the tragic nine-hundred- year Finnish struggle for independence. But, first, let us tur our attention to an examination of the topography and resources of this interesting country. Modern Finland contains an area of 147,761 square miles. The population in 1938 was 3,834,662. The country is bounded on the north by Norway; on the east by the Russian provinces of Arhangel and Olonetz; on the south by the Gulf of Finland; and on the west by the Gulf of Bothnia, Sweden, and Norway. The surface is a labyrinthic mixture of land and water; and the seacoast, especially in the south and southwest, presents the same succession of fiords and rocky headlands that characterizes the coasts of Norway and Sweden 622 The coast is studded with innumerable small islands and rocks called skar. These render navigation extremely dangerous, especially in the Gulf of Bothnia. The lakes occupy about twelve per cent of the total area, and the marshes, twenty per cent, so that Finland is more abundantly supplied with water than any other country in the world. The greater portion of the interior of Finland is a vast tableland, averaging in height from 350 to 4oo feet, and interspersed with hills of no great elevation. Immense forests cover one-half of the country. These consist chiefly of pine, spruce, fir, and birch. Although extending far north into cold latitudes, with a rugged climate and topography, Finland is an agricultural country. The principal crops are rye, barley, oats, potatoes, and hay. Lumbering is the most important industry. Cattle breeding is successful on account of the many natural meadows, the good pasturage, and abundance of water. Finland produces considerable quantities. Of iron, tin, copper, lime, granite, marble, and quartz. The chief exports in the order of their importance are: lumber, pulp and paper, leather, hides, iron ore, matches, ammunition and other explosives. The chief imports are: metal goods, machinery, textiles, and spices. A unique co-operative system has worked successfully throughout Finland for forty years. In 1939, there were more than 7,000 co-operatives with a total membership of 9,000. These societies handled about twenty-five per cent of the retail and forty per cent of the wholesale trade of the country. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1944 EFORE 1919, Finland was attached to Russia as a grand duchy. The Czar was recognized as grand duke and controlled the foreign affairs of the country; but, so far as internal affairs were concerned, save for the period from 1897 to 1919, the country functioned as an independent, autonomous state. The Constitution of Finland dates from the year 1788 and is based, besides, upon the pledge of Czar Alexander I in 1809 (when Swedish Finland was annexed to Russia), renewed by his successors, and upon the decree of the Diet in 1869. These guarantees were later set aside by Czar Nicholas II (1894-1914). The government of the country and the administration of justice under the Constitution were carried on by the Imperial Senate for Finland. This consisted of eighteen members appointed by the Czar and presided over by the governor general of Finland. Until 1897, all administrative appointees, including even the governor general were native Finns. The legislative function was exercised by the Czar and a Diet or Seim, without the consent of which no law could be decreed or repealed, no taxes imposed, nor soldiers levied. The Diet met every five years. It consisted of representatives from four classes or estates: the nobility, the clergy, the bourgeois, and the peasantry. The nobility were drawn from the heads of noble families, admitted into the House of Nobles; the other deputies were separately elected from their respective orders. The official language was Swedish. For administrative purpose, Finland was divided into eight lans or governments. The lans were divided into harads or districts, and these in FINLAND turn into parishes or communes, of which there were 480. To these were entrusted the management of local affairs. The administration of law lies, in the first place, with the Senate; in the second place, with the high courts established at Abo (modern Turku), Nikolaistad, Wasa, and Viipuri (modern Viborg); and, finally, with the district courts in the country and the municipal courts in the towns. The constitutional provisions enumerated above made Finland, until the days of Nicholas IT (1894-1914), the freest and best-governed portion of the Russian Empire. The established religion is Evangelical Lutheran. It was probably at the end of the seventh century that the Finns took Possession of what is now Finland. The newcomers found the Lapps residing in the country, The intruders seem not to have had any centralized governmental organization, but to have lived in separate communities and villages, independent of each other. These early Finlanders seem to have been both brave and troublesome to their neighbors; and their repeated attacks on the coast of Sweden drew the attention of the kings of that country. As a result, Kin Eric IX, accompanied by the Bishop of Upsala (an Englishman), and a considerable army, invaded Finland, in 1157, conquered the people, converted the country into a Swedish province, and baptized many into the Christian Church. The work of the Bishop of Upsala was long re-. Membered, and after his death he was canonized as St. Henry. Today, he is revered as the patron saint of Finland. The brilliant evangelical work of St. Henry was followed up by a second English bishop by name 623 of Thomas, who is said to have almost succeeded in detaching the country from Sweden, and forming it into a province, subject only to the pope at Rome. The conquest of Finland by Sweden provoked an almost continuous series of wars with Russia. These were all indecisive. However, in 1323, it was agreed that part of east. Em Finland should be attached to Russia, with the river Rajajoki as the boundary. The Reformed Lutheran religion was introduced into Finland in 1528, by King Gustavus Vasa of Sweden. King John III, his successor, raised the province into the dignity of a grand duchy. King Gustayus Adolphus, about 1600, established the Diet of Finland, a representative political body composed of four orders: the nobility, the clergy, the bourgeois, and the peasantry. This brilliant Swedish monarch also did much to develop culture in Finland by founding schools and gymnasia, building churches, encouraging learning, and introducing printing. ETER the Great was the first Russian Czar to challenge seriously Sweden's title to Finland. In 1710, he managed to obtain Possession of the towns of Keksholm and Villmanstrand. Within. Six years (1710-1716), despite the brilliant defensive efforts of King Charles XII of Sweden, the entire duchy came into his power. By the Treaty of Nystadt (1721), the province of Wiborg, comprising the entire eastern half of Finland, was ceded to Russia. The Swedes attempted to recover the ceded province, but were disastrously defeated: and, in 1743. By the Treaty of Abo, were forced to cede additional territory, including the important cities of Villmanstrand and Fredrikshamn. 624 In 1788, King Gustavus III, as already noted, gave to Swedish Finland those fundamental laws, incorporated into a formal constitution, by which the people are still essentially governed. In 1807, Napoleon concluded with Czar Alexander I the famous Treaty of Tilsit, negotiated on a raft in the river Niemen. "Hardly an inch of Russian soil was exacted—only a promise to co-operate in excluding British trade from the continent." Tilsit destroyed the Third Coalition, and made Napoleon master of the continent. Only Sweden and Great Britain remained under arms against him, and against the former he was able to employ both Denmark and Russia. Early in 1808, a Russian army crossed the Finnish border without any previous declaration of war, and simultaneously a Danish force prepared to invade Sweden from the Norwegian frontier. The ill-starred Swedish king, Gustavus IV, found it was all he could do, even with British aid, to fight off the Danes. Thus, left alone and unsupported, Finland was quickly overrun by Russians, and as a result, in 18009, Sweden was forced to cede the whole of Finland, including the Aaland Islands, to Russia. However, thanks to the generosity of Czar Alexander I, Finland did not enter Russia as a conquered province, but as a semi-independent grand duchy, with the Czar as grand duke. Alexander I also issued a manifesto in which he pledged to preserve the religion, laws, and liberties of the conquered country. This pledge was kept until the autocratic regime of Czar Nicholas IT (1894-1914). The old Russo-Finnish RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1944 province of Wiborg (ceded to Russia in 1721) was reunited to Finland in 1811. In 1821, the seat of government was removed from Abo (modern Turku) to the present capital, Helsinki. The Diet which had not met for fifty-six years was convoked by Czar Alexander II in 1863, and has met every five years since. During the latter part of the nineteenth century, and especially during the reign of Czar Nicholas II (1894- 1914), Pan-Slavism, an intense Russian nationalistic movement, was inspired by journalists, patriots, and agents of the central government. The Pan-Slavic program sought: (1) to Russify the Russian Empire, that is, to introduce among _ the heterogeneous parts of the Empire, the language and institutions of Greater Russia; and (2) to extend this influence eastward and southward into Asia, and westward and southward into the Balkans. It became an asserted policy of the Pan-Slavists, therefore, to sympathize with and encourage the aspirations of Slavic peoples against Turkey, in Bulgaria, Serbia and Montenegro—not as a movement to annex these states but to establish Russian protectorates over Slavic autonomies. The Franco-Russian Alliance (1894) was meant to curb anti-Slavic policies of the Teutonic nations. The Pan-Slavic institutions which the government sought to perpetuate and universalize within the Empire were the Russian language, the Orthodox Church, agricultural rural communities, and political autocracy. The aim was to establish "one law, one language, one religion." Special efforts to Russify Poland, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania were FINLAND made by substituting Russian for German place names, making the teaching of the Russian language compulsory in the schools, forbidding the teaching of German, suppressing free Speech, enacting prejudicial legislation against the hapless Jews and encouraging pogroms against them, and, finally, by adopting regulations which favored the Greek Orthodox at the expense of € Roman Catholic and Lutheran religions within the Provinces, Nicholas I] (1899) replaced all Finns by Russians in the government service, in constabulary subordinate to the Russian military organization, and practically converted the grand duchy into a Russian Province by decreeing that all Fj henceforth need be submitted to the Finnish Diet. Needless to say, the above measures were vigorously Opposed by the inhabitants of Poland, Finland, and the Baltic Provinces. Against all Opposition, however, the tireless and vigorous Plehve, Russian Minister of Interior, kept up an effective fight. Illegal arrests and banishments resulted. Newspapers and radical Periodicals were ruthlessly suppressed. In fact, any person in the disaffected provinces was liable to be apprehended by the police and imprisoned by governmental order who was merely suspected of harboring anti-Russian, liberal, or socialist opinions. 625 Taking advantage of the revolutionary unrest within Russia in 1905, occasioned by the unpopular Russo. Strike as a protest against Russian tule. Railway, steamship, telephone, were suspended. “Helsingfors (modern Helsinki), the capital of the grand duchy restored the Finnish Constitution, The strike ceased power of the Finnish Diet just preceding the outbreak of World War I, in 1914, aroused the liveliest apprehension in Finland.. He Finns, as well as the other subject nationalities of the Russian empire, including the Poles, Jews, recognition of national tights and self-determination. Russian Revolution of March 1917 destroyed the old Russian Czardom, the Finns were determined to free themselves entirely from union with (Continued on Page 639) What an Old Trunk May Bring Forth William R. Palmer ANY of the old trunks that survived the battering of a steerage ocean voyage on sailing vessels, and crossed the continent in ox-team caravans contained treasures of china and pewter and copper and exquisite needlework that looked strangely out of place in the primitive log homes they were brought to Zion to adorn. Some were treasured heirlooms that had heart values far beyond any price that. Might be put upon them, and some were parting gifts from beloved relatives or friends whose faces might never again be seen. Our pioneer mothers polished their pewter and copper to jewel-like brightness and put them on the roughhewn mantelpieces of their first log homes, and they hung their fine needlework upon the rough but whitewashed walls. Looking through tear-dimmed eyes upon these treasures, they saw in them the link between the roughhewn homes of the wilderness and the refinements they had left behind. Many of these treasured keepsakes fell into hands that knew not their value, and, with the passing of the mothers who cherished them, became mere junk for the children to destroy. Others were packed reverently back into the battered old trunk with grandma's horsehair bonnet and the clothing she would never wear again. There they lay untouched Page 626 and forgotten until some descendant, impelled by curiosity to see what grandma wore, brought them again to the light of day. Such a trunk was opened in Kanarraville, in 1939, and it yielded a real treasure of needle-- craft to a family who knew grandma only as a tradition. On the night of May 16, 1869, the waiting days of Mariah Davies Davies were all fulfilled, and she went down into the Valley of the Shadow of Death from which she never returned. In the morning, a daughter was born, and two hours later the mother's eyes were closed in death. They laid her away in the little cemetery at Kanarraville and then the sorrowing husband, with the aid of Martha, his eldest daughter, and "Aunt Betsy," his wife's cousin, packed her keepsakes with her clothing into the old steamer trunk that had brought them from Wales. In July 1870, John J. Davies married "Aunt Betsy," but she, knowing what the trunk contained, never opened it. For twenty years they lived happily together, and in August 1890, she died. Martha Williams, that eldest daughter, took her father, John J. Davies, to her home to spend the remainder of his days. The old trunk came too, and that was the last move it ever made. More years passed and John J. Davies died, then Martha died, and lastly her husband, Rees J. Williams. The old home became the property WHAT AN OLD TRUNK MAY BRING FORTH of Bishop Wells A. Williams, their son. ONE day in 1939, Bishop Williams and his good wife decided to * look into grandfather's old trunk in the attic. Since the death of the Bishop's mother its hinges had never turned. Folded carefully away in the bottom they found the sampler shown in the photograph above. Art teachers and all who see it pronounce it one of the most exquisite pieces of needlework they have ever seen. It is twenty inches square. The work is so fine that it requires a magnifying glass to reveal that many different stitches have been employed in developing the various figures. It was done in Carmarthenshire, Wales, in the year 1846, and Mariah Davies, the girl who did it, was then only thirteen years of age. Her work is flawless. The beauty of this rare sampler lies not alone in its exquisite needlework but in the dainty loveliness and refinement of its color scheme as well. Done in daintiest pastel shades of brown and pinks and reds, the interest of a spectator alternates between the delicate perfection of craftsmanship and the grace of its colors and shades. One could never tire of looking at it. Moths, unfortunately, have done some damage to the fabric, but the pattern and the colors are as clear and dainty and bright as the day the piece was finished. It will soon be a century old. Mariah Davies was first baptized into the Mormon Church the year she finished this masterpiece of needlecraft—1846. In 1852, she was re-baptized, (a customary thing in those days) and John J. Davies, the man she was destined to marry two years later, became a member of the Church at the same time. Brother Davies was a weaver by trade, and in Zion, his young wife soon became proficient in that craft also. In the early months of 1855, in the employ of "Sister Mackeny," they wove five hundred yards of carpet for use in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. They also wove one hundred yards of cloth for Bailey Lake to get flour to feed themselves and their babies. Many descendants from this worthy Welsh couple are scattered through the Church, and most of them, perhaps, have never seen nor heard of this exquisite piece of fine art that was done by the skilled fingers of their grandmother. IN NOVEMBER Beatrice Knowlton Ekman All through the long and lonely night, I heard the dead leaves blow Before the wind. Detached and light, Their wings brushed stones below. Now, in the paling gray of dawn, The branches etch the sky; The trees stand bare—the leaves are gone, And raveled clouds trail by. The day will cry night's sorrow down; And ashes embers lie, Mem'ry will wear a brighter gown, And hope again be high— But when at night the dead leaves blow Crisp cadence of November, With rhythmic tempo quick or slow— It's heartbreak I remember. 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1944 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon DESPITE determined efforts by many women's organizations to push through the Equal Rights Amendment giving women equal rights with men, it is still in Congress, where was introduced in 1923. Before it can become law, two-thirds of the House, of the Senate, and then of the forty-eight states must approve it. Before it could become effective five more years must clapse to give states time to make their laws conform. More than one thousand state laws discriminating against women now exist. KONRAD BERCOVICI reports that Spanish women were held pack more than any other women in Europe until the revolutionary birth of the Republic in 1931. The Republic gave women coeducation and suffrage. Fascist Franco, coming to power, took away both, executed a million men and women battlers for freedom, and imprisoned countless other liberty-loving women. THE contributors of the Saturday Review of Literature recently voted Willa Cather runner-up with Ernest Hemingway as leading United States novelist. Eleanor Glasgow received sixth place, and Marjorie Rawlings tied for eighth place. Miss Cather received the 1944 fiction award of the National Academy of Arts and Letters. IX the coming election in France, French women, noted for centuries for intellectual achievement, are to vote for the first time in history. DR: ROSE HOMER WIDTSOE, head of the Home Economics Department, University of Utah, died September 13, leaving a vacancy difficult to fill. She was well educated and held a Doctor of Philosophy degree from Stanford University, and was recognized nationally as an authority in the field of home economics. She was a devoted Latter-day Saint, the mother of two daughters, and wife of the late Osborne J. Widtsoe, who was the head of the Department of English at the University of Utah. BONARO W. OVERSTREET, author of the volume of beautiful and stirring poetry, America Answers, has written a novel of social idealism, War Comes to Liberty Hill. The author is a charming and inspirational woman, who spent the summer of 1942 in Provo where her husband, Dr. Harry A. Overstreet, sociologist and author, taught in the summer school. She registered for several subjects, to become better acquainted with the Mormon folk whom she liked and respected. Page 629  


VOL. 31 NOVEMBER 1944 NO. 11 Birthday Greetings to President Heber Gg. Grant T Latter-day Saints the month of November is: especially significant, for in this month occurs the anniversary of the birth of our greatly beloved and deeply revered president, Heber J. Grant. Upon this important occasion we extend to him through the columns of the Magazine, which represents the great multitude of women of the Relief Society, greetings, congratulations, and heartfelt good wishes. In our homes we express daily in our prayers our gratitude and thanks for the leadership, the splendid life, and righteous achievements of this great and good man, and we pray for his continued welfare. While he will be thus remembered by the people of the Church everywhere at this time, yet we take this opportunity, which we deem a great pleasure and high privilege, to salute him in behalf of the great Relief Society organization on this his eighty-eighth birthday, and to wish for him a realization of all that his heart desires. We are sure that one of his heart's greatest desires is that the members of the Church strive daily to live in strict accordance with the teachings of the gospel of the Master, and that they devote themselves to the building up of the kingdom of God. The fulfillment or accomplishment of this desire would be to him a priceless birthday gift. President Grant has always been Page 630 a true friend to the women of the Church. He has recognized their contributions to the welfare and development of the Church, and he has honored them in their various callings. He has encouraged them to go forward in auxiliary activities and has aided and. Supported them in their organization work. For this generous attitude toward women, and this whole-souled recognition of their abilities and service, we are deeply grateful. We are mindful especially of his interest in the various phases of Relief Society work, and we wholeheartedly express our love and gratitude for all that he has done for our treasured Society. President Grant's conception of the scope and value of Relief Society work dates back to his early youth, when his widowed mother served as a ward president at the same time that he and she were struggling together to carry the economic problems that surrounded them in their own home, in those early pioneer days.. It was thus from his mother, who went about doing good, giving spiritual as well as practical help to those in sorrow and need, that he first learned some of those lessons which have helped to make of him the great humanitarian and spiritual leader that he is today. President Amy B. Lyman EDITORIAL 631 Wise Spending THE wise use of money is a problem that is ever with us. It is one that becomes very acute during wartime. The present war period has been no exception. The war has been responsible for marked increases in the income of many people. Not only are many people receiving larger pay checks, but family incomes have been increased because more members of the family have become wage earners. The war has also affected, to a certain extent, the pattern of our spending. The cost of certain types of goods, such as food, has been increased, wartime taxes, which must be met, have been levied, etc. This has made it necessary for people to plan, at least to a limited extent, their current expenditures. However, in all too many instances a "'money madness" has taken hold of people?there has been a greed to earn, and money has been spent with reckless abandon. Lavish spending at any time is neither good taste nor good judgment. In wartime it is particularly unbecoming. During wartime a large portion of the nation's productive resources are devoted to the manufacture ' of war materials. Most goods available for civilian consumption are inferior in quality and high in price. It is difficult to obtain full value for money expended with the dollar worth approximately seventy - four cents. Then, too, there are many unavailable goods which will be available in the future, which people will want, and for which they must spend money. The future will also offer many opportunities that are now curtailed, such as travel and educational opportunities, for which people should be saving. Then, too, we must remember that everyone has a responsibility as a citizen to exercise restraint in his spending and to save as much as possible. Saving stores up purchasing power for the future, and has a national, as well as personal, significance; it is a bulwark against postwar depression. The temptation to spend extravagantly will be very strong as the Christmas season approaches, Christmas is always characterized by free spending. 'This year, with spirits somewhat lifted because of the war outlook and with money plentiful, restraint will be extremely difficult. The wise woman will recognize the temptation. She will be fully aware that many standard articles are not available, and that most articles that are available are high priced and of wartime quality. She will appreciate the fact that, in the light of the war situation, many merchants are anxious to reduce wartime stocks and she will not be influenced by special inducements to buy. She will consider more carefully than ever before the significance of Christmas giving, and her Christmas remembrances will be the expression of her thoughtfulness, careful planning, and personal effort, rather than to represent money expenditures. Her necessary purchases will be made with a full appreciation and understanding of values. Her spending will be conservative and wise. NOTES TO THE FIELD Notice of Special Ward Relief Society Meeting to Be Held January 30, 1945 (Fifth Tuesday) "THE General Board of Relief Society recommends that all local Relief Societies hold a_ special meeting on the fifth 'Tuesday of January 1945, relating to the non-use of liquor and tobacco. Our Church leaders, as well as many civic, business, and welfare leaders in the United States and other countries are concerned over the alarming increase in the use of alcohol and tobacco. It is desired that this problem be considered by the Relief Society in a special meeting devoted entirely to this subject, where the standards of our Church with respect to the non-use of alcohol and tobacco may be re-emphasized, and the advantages and blessings of abstinence discussed. Following is a suggestive program for this meeting, but local Relief Societies may, of course, plan their own programs if they prefer, provided they carry forward the purpose of the meeting. The Church's General No-Liquor- Tobacco Committee, headed by Elder Joseph F. Merrill as chairman, with headquarters at 40 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, directs the activities of similar no-liquor-tobacco committees in stakes and in wards on which priesthood quorums and auxiliary organizations have representation. It is suggested that ward officers might call on the Relief Society representative on the ward or stake no-liquor tobacco committee for assistance with this program if more pamphlets or reference material are desired, and that the Relief Society representative on the ward no-liquor-tobacco committee be asked to give one of the talks. The references in the suggestive program include a pamphlet distributed through the General No-Liquor-Tobacco Committee. It is suggested that requests for copies of pamphlets be made first to your ward or stake no-liquor tobacco committee, and that if they cannot be obtained through this means that requests for copies be sent direct to the General No-Liquor-Tobacco Committee. Suggestive Program Title: Tobacco. The Relief Society Stands For the Non-Use of Liquor and Theme: Doc. And Cov., Sec. 89:4-8. I Song: "Choose the Right," Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 86. I] Prayer Page 632 NOTES TO THE FIELD. 633 III Song: "Guide Me to Thee," Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 110. IV Talk: The Sacredness of the Human Body. (See Dr. Frederick J. Pack, "The Sacredness of the Human Body," to appear in The Deseret News Church Edition, Saturday, January 6, 1945; Dr. John A. Widtsoe, Word of Wisdom, Chaps. 5 and 6, pp 42-84; John 2:19-21; I Cor. 6:19-20; Doc. And Cov. Sec. 93:35). V Talk: The Mother's Responsibility in the Non-Use of Liquor and Tobacco. 1. Setting the example personally. 2. Maintaining standards in the home. "3. Seeking to raise community standards. (See President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "Our Homes," Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, p. 801; President David O. McKay, "The Highest and Best in Woman's Realm," Relief Society Magazine, January 1940, p. 17; Virginia Jacobsen, "The Woman Smoker," Relief Society Magazine, June 1937, p. 375; Alonzo L. Baker, "Should Women Smoke?" Relief Society Magazine, October 1941, p. 665?Pamphlet available from General No-Liquor-Tobacco Committee. ) VI Song: "Homing," (Trio) Del Riego, or "Home Sweet Home." VII Talk: The Rewards of Obedience from the Observance of Non-Use of Alcohol and Tobacco. 1. Obtaining the promises. 2. Seeing one's children inherit the rewards. 3. Being heirs to the promises of the righteous. (See President Heber J. Grant, "Gospel Standards, Chap. 4; Doc. And Cov. Sec. 89:18-21. VIII Closing song. IX Benediction. Additional references for talks: Dr. Joseph F. Merrill, ""What's the Lesson?" Improvement Era, August 1944, p. 503; ""The Effects of Alcohol," Improvement Era, June 1944, P. 393; "Tobacco," Relief Society Magazine, February 1930, p. 70; "Personal Letters Protest Picturization of Smoking and Drinking," Relief Society Magazine, June-July 1943, p. 398; "Auxiliary Leaders Protest Picturization of Smoking and Drinking," Relief Society Magazine, January 1943, p. 44; Lucy Gates Bowen, ""Why a Singer Should Keep the Word of Wisdom," Relief Society Magazine, November 1944, p. 613. Suggestions for December Work Meeting CHRISTMAS this year will perhaps have a deeper significance than ever before because of the tragic condition of the world today. Let the last sewing day of this eventful year be a preparation for the true Christmas spirit. On this day there may be sewing that must be taken care of, but would it not be interesting to have a few innovations? Somebody has said, "The Christmas tree in our homes is a symbol 634 of Christ as the tree of life, who offers freely to all his gifts of light, and life and wisdom." Would it not be interesting to include in the work meeting program suggestions on how to attractively and inexpensively decorate a Christmas tree. A tree glittering with ornaments, shining with tinsel and icicles can be made very attractive; but where these are difficult to obtain, ornaments made of bright-colored paper, strings of snowy-white popcorn, pine cones and other inexpensive trimmings might well substitute for the commercially made and more expensive tree decorations. Some people are fond of the silver trees decorated with blue baubles and blue lights. For this, tree radiator paint and a spray gun will be needed. Some people like to use the white frosting made with white hot-water kalsomine mixed according to the directions on the package and applied by slapping the branches with a brush. Then, there are the lovely Christmas greens, the mistletoe and holly, and the red and white candles. These, too, are symbols of Christmas and add to the spirit of the occasion. Suggestions for the attractive use of these during the holiday season would, no doubt, be of interest to Relief Society members. In every ward there are excellent cooks. Recipes for cookies, plum RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 pudding, fruit cake, cinnamon apples, and cranberry jelly might be exchanged. A demonstration showing how festive the Christmas table can be set and how to arrange a center piece is always appreciated. This year, it may be difficult to purchase just the items we would like for Christmas giving, and those available will, no doubt, be expensive and of wartime quality. Why not have the women' bring their own sewing and exchange ideas? There are many fine suggestions that might be made for making such articles as lovely handkerchiefs and dainty aprons. There is a need for laundry bags, and guest towels. Dolls are scarce and expensive this year. Rag dolls and stuffed animals can be made very attractive and at little expense. Doll clothes might also be of interest to mothers with little girls. Luncheon sets made of monk's cloth outlined with colored thread or those made of butcher's linen appliqued with colorful materials are very pretty as well as useful. In the words of Annie Wells Cannon: "Now may the Christmas candle burn in every window, and the light of love in every heart." For additional suggestions see: "For Christmas This Year' Nellie O. Parker, Relief Society Magazine, November 1943, p. 675; "How to Glorify Christmas Gifts,'' Lucile W. Wolf, Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, p. 816. Suggestions for Choristers and Organists Song Practice The knowledge of songs can be enlarged considerably in Relief Society organizations if the two song practice periods each month are carefully planned. New songs should be presented from time to time, and appropriate songs should be selected not only from the Relief Society Song Book but from other Church NOTES TO THE FIELD songbooks. It is advisable that the chorister and organist rehearse together so that they may learn the songs thoroughly before offering them to the group. The new song should be rehearsed just long enough to give the women a general idea of it; it may be taken up in more detail in the next song practice. Some of the period should be used to improve the singing of familiar hymns so that the members may sing with greater fervor and enjoyment. While it is conceded that the standing position is best for singing, yet after hurrying through a busy morning in order to attend Relief Society meeting, many women find it very tiring to stand for any length of time. 'Therefore, it would be considerate on the part of the chorister to have the audience remain seated for most, if not all, of the practice period. Nothing should ever detract from the spiritual uplift and enjoyment that can come to us from singing together. Suggestions for Special Occasions Many groups of Singing Mothers have already planned special activities for the coming season. They are working on new program numbers 635 to be given on various occasions 'n their wards or stakes. Some have chosen the Thanksgiving holiday as the time for a special musicale, featuring thankfulness for the earth's bounties as the central theme. Around this theme they will group their songs and readings. The stage for a Thanksgiving musicale may be decorated in beautiful autumn colors, creating a festive atmosphere. Other choruses are preparing special musical programs for the Christmas holidays, improvising a program around a lovely Christmas story, using Christmas chorals along with other appropriate numbers, displaying a "living picture" of one or two of the famous paintings of the Madonna and Child, the Manger, the Wise Men, the Christ Child, et cetera. The Christmas cantata is always a favorite with both singing groups and audiences, it can generally be prepared in a few weeks' time. The work of the chorus can always be lightened by having a special trio or double trio do one or more of the chorus numbers. Requests have come for the names of Christmas cantatas for women's voices. A list is herewith submitted: Christmas Cantatas?Three-part for Ladies' Voices "The Heavenly Child," by Hamblen. Published by Chappell ?.60 "The Music of Bethlehem," by Holton, Published by Lorenze -.....50 "The Wondrous Story," by Kountz (no solos) Medium Difficult "Yuletide Memories," (Two-part for ladies' voices) are included) "Bethlehem," by Bliss (with solos and scripture reading). Published by Willis.....75 "In Bethlehem," by Kountz. Published by Witmark....-------60 "The Babe of Bethlehem," by Hamblen. Published by Chappell Co...60 More Difficult (Three-part for ladies' voices ) "The Story of Christmas," by Matthews. Published by G. Schirmer...75 Easy Price "The Christmas Messiah," (taken from Handel's Messiah ). Published by Lorenze.60 "The Christ Child," by Hawley. Published by John Church Co........................75 "Christmas Tide"  (Christmas Carols) by Bowdon. Published by Flammer 25 Sime Limitations in Theology and in Visiting Teachers | Training Report Meeting to Be Observed COMPLAINTS have reached the General Board that the meetings on the first Tuesday of the month are often too long, and inquiry has revealed that because of the extensive familiarity with the subject matter and the interest of our members in theology that the class period for this lesson often extends beyond the recommended forty-five minutes. Class leaders are urged to confine the lesson presentation and discussion to forty-five minutes in order to allow time for testimony bearing. We repeat the standing recommendation of the General Board that in large wards the time of the testimony meeting might be extended fifteen minutes to allow for more women to bear testimony. However, this meeting occurs monthly, and Relief Society women also have opportunity to bear testimony in the regular monthly ward fast meeting. It is, therefore, recommended that the theology and testimony meeting be closed at the agreed time. The preceding visiting teachers' training-report meeting must also be well managed so as not to run over time. It is imperative that ward visiting teachers' message leaders confine their presentation of the discussion to the recommended ten to fifteen minutes, and that the regular reports of visiting teachers be confined to the required information. Time limitations for each feature of this meeting are listed in detail in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1944, page 513. To those women who feel that the allotted time is too short in which to give their message adequately, may we recall that the shortest speeches are often the most effective. Extensive preparation is necessary to be able to give a worthwhile message in a short time. Some of the choicest gems in religious teaching, in literature, and in philosophy are very brief, yet their message is readily grasped.. The Beatitudes can be read in one minute and contain only 143 words, yet their message, remarkable in content, is a blessing that has spanned centuries. I Corinthians, chapter 13, takes less than two minutes to read and contains only 268 words. It is considered by some as coming nearer to the heart of the gospel than anything in the Bible outside the words of Jesus. The Gettysburg Address can be read in two minutes, yet is one of the world's great speeches. The visiting teachers' message as presented in The Relief Society Magazine is short. The ten to fifteen minutes allotted in the training meeting should be ample for effective discussion and consideration of its application to the teaching situation. 636 (Arranged for women's voices) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944: NOTES TO THE FIELD 637 ORGANIZATIONS Since the last report, printed in the November 1943 issue of The Relief Society Magazine Formerly Part of Date Stake or Mission Stakes _ Appointed President Ben Lomond Stake Ogden Stake Ora Mac Farlane = November 22, 1943 Grantsville Stake Tooele Stake Carrie Wrathall January 16, 1944 Park Stake Liberty and, Bonneville Stakes Blanche Stoddard = October 24, 1943 REORGANIZATIONS Since the last report, printed in the November 1943 issue of The Relief Society Magazine Stake or Mission Released Appointed President Date Stakes Blackfoot Mary S. Bills Alice S. DeMordaunt ? June 11, 1944 Box Elder Josie J. Jeppson Beatrice B. Hansen February 7, 1944 Cache Mary M. West Alice Christiansen September 11, 1944 Emery Clara A. Wickman = Arlinda N. Ware August 20, 1944 Emigration Jennie H. Brockbank Lillie Adams February 13, 1944 Garfield Hazel W. Cannon Daphne B. Smith August 13,1944. (Deceased ) Gridley Ruthe B. Samson Alice I. Ferrin September 24, 1944 Hyrum Minnie A. Miller Harriet C. Leishman August 27, 1944 Idaho Falls Cora M. Christensen Idetta Merrill April 1, 1944 Kolob Hannah M. Clyde Zelma Beardall January 16, 1944 Liberty Emma G. Phillips Diana R. Lambert October 24, 1943 Millard Artemesia George Fern Robison August 13, 1944 Nampa Clara C. Mason Ethel B. Andrews March 19, 1944 Nebo Vera H. Cloward Gwen W. Dixon September 14, 1944 Nevada Hope Broadbent Lucille Horton September 24, 1944 Panguitch Sarah O. Henrie Laretta Yardley February 6, 1944 Pasadena Irene Ethel Boice Madge Fowler July 16, 1944 Pocatello Amy J. Hawkes Mary H. Whitaker November 28, 1943 Raft River Roxie F. Horne Lona Hepworth February 20, 1944 St. George Marian M. Snow Leila K. Atkin October 10, 1943 St. Joseph Wilda Merrill Hattie Shurtz March 12, 1944 San Juan Charity L. Rowley Ruth H. Redd October 24, 1943 Santaquin-Tintic Vera P. Patten Jennie Bylund March 19, 1944 South: Salt Lake South Sevier Winnie O. Lavin Jennie Brown Lau Rene K. Lindquist September 21, 1944 Sylva Musig April 23, 1944 Tooele Carrie Wrathall Emma R. Hanks January 16, 1944 Uvada Dorothy P. Ronnow June C. Huntington May 14, 1944 Wells Amy B. Towler Lorena W. Anderson July 1, 1944 Young Bergetta A. Covington Harriet D. Foutz May 21, 1944 Missions Argentine Kate M. Barker Cecile S. Young July 21, 1944 Eastern States Mary V. Iverson Alberta O. Doxey May 17, 1944 Northwestern Edna H. Bennion Lenore K. Bringhurst August 18, 1944 Tahitian Venus R. Rossiter Emma Ruth Mitchell 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 Revised Price List of Temple and Burial Clothing A new price list of the temple and burial clothing available from the General Board of Relief Society has been mailed to all stake presidents and bishops, and to all stake, ward, and mission Relief Society presidents, and is published here so that Relief Society members CLOTHING FOR WOMEN Robes: (Gathered usually preferred for temple work; pleated usually preferred for burial. ) Cotton (gathered)....$ 1.80 2.25 2.95 Cotton (pleated)...... 3-25 4.90 8.05 Flaxon (pleated)........ 465 5.25 Linen (pleated) -....... 17.65 Veils: Cotton  95 Organdy.......... 2.15 Rayon Airline............ 3.15 Rayon Marquisette.... 3.95 Moccasins: Cotton....80 Linen Fronting.......... Linen 1.25 Rayon 1.10 Aprons Sateen  2.40 Rayon.............. 2.65 3.50 5.30 6.10 (Variance in price due to amount of embroidery may be informed of this nonprofit service supplied by the Relief Society. All purchasers of burial clothing are cautioned not to pay more for temple burial clothing than the prices here quoted, wherever purchased. CLOTHING FOR MEN Robes: (Gathered usually preferred for temple work; pleated usually preferred for burial.) Cotton (gathered)....$ 1.85 2.35 3.15 Cotton (pleated).... 3.25 4.90 8.05 Flaxon (pleated)........ 4.65 5.25 Linen (pleated)........ 12.70 17.65 Caps: Cotton 22.0 ee 35 Linen Fronting...........60 Linen.80 1.00 Moccasins: 80 Linen Fronting.......... Go Linen 20 Aprons Sateen 2.40 Rayon..............-.2.65 3.50 5.30 6.10 (Variance in price due to amount of Cutout Edge.......... 6.10 Embroidering  Aprons - Unfinished: embroidering...........50 Aprons - Unfinished: APTON WW... Eeeeeseeseene.30 embroidering.......... 50 not used for burial) ?. Go APTON.........30  ALL THESE REMAIN Betty Wall Madsen We still have these, within a troubled land: The warm simplicity of children's trust, The friendship held in someone's outstretched hand, And love that lives when everything is dust. Above all else, we still have faith, as high As temple spires pillaring the sky. Stamped square for Lining to complete Shield: For temple work only? Cutout Edge........ 6.10 Stamped square for Lining to complete FINLAND 639 Finland (Continued from page 625) Russia and, accordingly, on December 17, 1917, the Finnish Diet formally declared the independence of Finland. All of the other Baltic provinces, including Poland, took the same course between the months of November 1917 and February 1918. BUT the type of government in Finland was not decided without civil war and bloodshed. The Russian Soviet quickly recognized the independence of Finland, but it was soon supporting a Finnish Socialist Workers' Republic which seized power in Helsinki at the end of January 1918. General Mannerheim, a Swedo-Finn, and formerly of the Russian Imperial Army and then (1918) an intense foe of Bolshevism, organized a White Guard and established his headquarters at Vaasa (modern Nicholaistad) on the Gulf of Bothnia. Within a few months, Mannerheim, ably assisted by a German contingent under General von Goltz, occupied Helsinki and the entire country along the Gulf of Finland. The last Red stronghold at Viipuri (modern Viborg) capitulated on May 16, 1918. But the price the Finns were to pay for German intervention was soon made evident through the infamous Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, by which the Soviet Union withdrew from the war. By terms of this treaty, Russia relinquished her claims to Finland, Estonia, Lithuania, Courland, Livonia, Lithuania, Bessarabia and the Aaland Islands, and ceded Russian Armenia to Turkey. However, the freeing of these states by Russia carried with it the obligation to recognize any program of Germanization that Germany might attempt, and the Reich was determined to establish a series of protectorates in this immense Baltic area. As a result, Finland was at once reduced to the status of a mere military and economic outpost and dependent of Berlin under the leadership of one, Prince Frederick Karl of Hesse, who was named King of Finland. These developments were fortunately terminated by the armistice which ended World War I in 1918. With the forced withdrawal of German troops and the temporary assumption of the Regency by General Mannerheim, the Finns proclaimed their country a republic, and, in July 1919, elected Professor Stahlberg as its first president.
Though relieved by the Treaty of Paris (1919) from respecting the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk (1918), and though victorious in war with several border states, within which she hoped to establish friendly Bolshevik governments, the Soviet Union persevered in the policy of recognizing the independence of the nationalities formerly subject to her. Thus, by a series of treaties signed in 1920, she recognized the independence of Finland, Poland, Estonia, Latvia (comprising the Letts of Livonia and Courland), and Lithuania. In July 1921, Russia and Finland signed a neutrality pact and, in 1925, an arbitration treaty. The Treaty of Dorpat (October 1920), defined the Russo-Finnish frontier. By this treaty, Finland renounced her claims 640 to East Karelia, while Russia surrendered her claims to Petsamo, which thereupon became Finland's only ice-free port on the Arctic Sea. The long quarrel with Sweden over the Aaland Islands was referred to the Council of the League of Nations. This body on June 24, 1921, recognized the claim of Finland to the islands but insisted that they remain unfortified. This decision led to the calling of a regional conference on Baltic problems in October 1921. The result was a multilateral treaty, signed April 6, 1922, by Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Latvia, Germany, Poland, Great Britain, France and Italy, guaranteeing the neutrality and international protection of the Aaland Islands. In 1921, Finland appealed to the League of Nations in behalf of the Finnish population of eastern Karelia. The Finns claimed that the Russians were not allowing the Karelian Finns the right of self government as they had promised to do by the Treaty of Dorpat (1920). However, neither the League Council nor the Permanent Court of International Justice to which the problem was finally referred, did anything to satiate the Finns, because each organization hesitated to challenge the Soviet Republic. The situation continued unchanged, and it proved to be one of the roots of the present Russo-Finnish War, for the Finns are fighting today to annex Karelia. Beginning with the Litvinov Pact (1929), in which Russia, Poland, Latvia, Rumania, Lithuania, Turkey, and Persia agreed to patch up their border differences, Russia entered into similar conventions with Finland, Italy, Czechoslovakia, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 Yugoslavia, Afghanistan and Mongolia. IN the fall of 1939, Russia took full advantage of Germany's preoccupation in the west to strengthen her own strategic positions, ostensibly for the purpose of acquiring better frontiers for future defense against Germany. Thus in September 1939, the Russians and Germans partitioned hapless Poland; and, on September 29, October 5, and October 10, respectively, the Soviet Government, through treaties with the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, acquired the right to establish military, naval and air bases in their territories, and thus reduced the three states to strategic vassalage. But the republic of Finland did not meet the Soviet overtures with the same complacency. The Russians demanded of Finland territorial concessions on the Karelian Isthmus for the better security of Leningrad, territorial concessions in the Petsamo area for the defense of Murmansk; and a naval base at Hango. When the Finns refused, Russia, ignoring her Russo-Finnish Non-aggression Pact, began her attack on the Republic, November 30, 1939. The next day (December 1st), she set up a puppet government at Teryoki. Thus began the second Russo-Finnish War. The Finns appealed to the League of Nations and, on December 14. That body declared Russia the aggressor, and expelled her from the organization. In the United States widespread sympathy was expressed for Finland's cause. Credit for nonmilitary supplies was extended through the U. S. Export and Import Bank, and the American people gave FINLAND generously for Finnish relief. Great Britain and France supplied some military equipment and a number of Norwegians, Swedes, and Danes volunteered for service in the Finnish army. However, none of the Scandinavian governments was willing to participate in the war, for fear of Nazi retaliation. For this reason, Norway and Sweden refused a formal request: from Great Britain and France (March 2, 1940) for the right to use their territories for the transportation of war, supplies to Finland. To have granted such a request would have courted almost certain invasion by Germany, who obviously could not tolerate the establishment of Allied bases on her northern flank. Thus, by a peculiar combination of circumstances, "the Allies were saved from going to war with Russia, but the embittered Finns were saved to become allies of the Nazis." (Haynes and Hoffman The Origins and Background of the Second World War, p. 561). Although fighting brilliantly, the Finns, deprived of Allied support, were forced to come to terms. By the Treaty of Moscow (March 12, 1940), Finland was compelled to cede to Russia the whole of the Karelian Isthmus; the important port of Viipuri (modern Viborg); several islands in the Gulf of Finland; the territory north and west of Lake Ladoga; a tract of land near Salla; and a small area about Petsamo. She also granted the Russians a thirty-year lease of the port of Hango. The Soviet Government at once organized the new Karelian acquisition as the "Karelian-Finnish Socialist Federative Soviet Republic." In the summer of 1941, Finland, still resentful toward the Soviet 641 Union because of its untoward attack, joined with Hitler in a secret military alliance. Then, when the Germans determined upon an invasion of Russia (June 22, 1941), the Finns resumed their "Russo-Finnish War" and supported actively the German invasion. However, the Finns declare that in this renewed war they were not the aggressors but that their active participation resulted only after the Russians had first attacked. This point of view is represented in a very lucid article which appeared recently in a reputable British publication, the Nineteenth Century. Part of the article is worth repeating here. It follows: "Finland did not take advantage of the occasion offered by the German attack on Russia in June 1941, to avenge the defeat she suffered at the hands of the Red Army in the previous year and to recover her lost territories. Finland was not the aggressor?she was, for the second time, the victim of aggression. When Russia was herself invaded on June 22, 1941, she at once resumed her active hostility to Finland," and this despite the fact that the Soviet Government had expressed satisfaction with the treaty of March 12, 1940. "On that same day," continues the commentator, "the Russians bombed the Aaland Islands and attempted to bomb two Finnish warships. On the 23rd, Abo (modern Turku), was bombed by twenty-four Russian airplanes. The open city of Villmanstrand was bombed on the same day?so was the Malm airdrome near Helsinki. By the 26th, more than ten Finnish towns had been bombed. By the Russians and suffered heavy casualties. On that day, the President, Risto Ryti. 642 broadcasted a declaration that Finland would fight. 'They decided to fight in self-defense for a second time. But they limited their military operations to the recovery of the districts that had been wrested from them in the previous year. They did not take part in the offensive against Leningrad?they deny that their guns have bombarded that Russian port." But, regardless of which country was the aggressor, the point is that Finland today, as an active ally of Germany against Russia, finds herself in a most precarious and unfortunate position. In spite of the justice of her cause, it is difficult to discern just how her cause can be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 aided by the Allies at the forthcoming peace conference, for it should be clear that the Allies will be forced to co-operate with the Soviet Union and recognize its demands for territorial security, and this, of course, will involve the fate of Finland. In the opinion of the writer, under these untoward circumstances, the Finns will be fortunate to escape with a settlement based on the provisions of the Moscow Treaty of 1940. This much is certain, the best immediate guarantee for continued independence of the Republic will be the establishment of friendly relations between the Finns and the Russians. ? Lula Greene Richards HE long and active earth life of one of the Church's interesting and gifted women was brought to a close Friday, September 8, 1944, when Louisa Lula Greene Richards passed away at her home in Salt Lake City at the age of ninety-five. Since her girlhood, the literary compositions of Sister Richards have delighted and inspired the women of the Church and won for her an enduring place in their hearts. In her early twenties her writing ability so attracted Church leaders that she was called to be first editor of the Woman's Exponent, forerunner of The Relief Society Magazine, and the first publication owned and printed by Latter-day Saint women. Sister Richards creditably fulfilled the exacting requirements of this position, serving from June 1, 1872 to July 15, 1877, when family responsibilities made it necessary for her to relinquish her editorial work after having set standards and established patterns many of which were followed throughout the life of the publication. Sister Richards was dainty in appearance, refined in manner, and a devoted Latter-day Saint. Throughout her life she was active in Church auxiliary work, For many years she was a member of the Primary General Board. She was also an active temple worker. Sister Richards found joy and comfort in her testimony of the divinity of Christ and the sure knowledge of the resurrection. The Relief Society General Board acknowledges with gratitude the contributions of Lula Greene Richards to the Relief Society. Forward, Without Fear Dorothy Clapp Robinson With their money gone, Ann Kristin and Hetga Mortensen are faced with the problem of supporting themselves, They have never worked except in their own homes. But the question of who took their money worries them more than the loss. Could it have been Elder Lewis? He had gone to New Orleans four months before, to bring these immigrants up the Tiver and to make sure just this sort of thing did not happen to them. Where did he get the money to bring the destitute ones up the river? He had only seven dollars when he left home. Could it have been Tom Bepiox? He had the opportunity, but would a man steal from the girl he was to marry? Was it Parry Lou, who didn't like Ann? What about the gambler-trader who left the River Maid at Montrose? Or was it one of the immigrants? ANN, under suggestion from Tom, has a warrant issued for the arrest of ELDER Lewis, but he tells where he received the money. It is a fantastic story and hard to believe. While the officers are hesitating about taking Lewis, Ted Lewis comes running with the news that the Prophet Joseph has been killed. CHAPTER IV MATILDA LEWIS drew the sheet up under Johanna's chin. "It is warm, but it will protect you from the flies," "Thank you." Mrs. Lewis busied herself with the baby. "She looks like you, Johanna. First thing you know you will be carrying her down to see me." Johanna turned her eyes slowly toward the foot of the bed. Mrs. Lewis had put a Square of mosquito netting over the bundle lying there. A beatific smile spread over her face for the moment, completely erasing the unhealthful pal lor of her skin, the unnatural bright ness of her eyes. To hide her own tears, Matilda Lewis turned quickly "T must get home now and See about Erva, but I will be back. It you need me, send Patty Lou. You will be quiet, won't you?" The sick girl's eyes answered, and Mrs. Lewis went outside. The hastily erected lean-to was still the home of these immigrants. It kept out the sun, and most of the rain, but nothing else. Sitting on the big stump in the clearing was Patty Lou. Her face was puckered in concentration as the pencil in her hand moved slowly over a square of paper. "I think she will be more comfortable now." Mrs. Lewis lowered her voice so her words would not reach the sick girl. "If the baby wakes or if she gets worse, call me at once. I'll try to get a little rest. You don't seem to mind the heat." "Mind? Oh, you all mean the weather. I was brought up on this kind. You all don't know Alabama." She struck suddenly at a mosquito that had been buzzing about her face. "There. Got him right on pap's letter," "Please, Patty. Listen to what I am saying." The girl's eyes opened wide. "Why, Sister Lewis, I am listening to you sure-enough." "Then watch Johanna carefully, She is very ill. Keep the flies away if you can, but let her sleep if she will." Page 643 "Yes'm. I sure enough will, but I must finish this letter to my papa."
"Patty Lou!" Mrs. Lewis' voice was stern. "I mean what I say. Your papa's letter can wait. She may turn worse in an instant."
Her tone brought Patty Lou's agile mind back from its wanderings. She smiled assurance, which changed quickly to wonder.
"Sister Lewis. Why do you do all this?"
"This?"
The girl waved her hand vaguely. "I mean, two months ago you didn't know any of us. Since then you have watched over us, brought us food, helped the girls sell their things, and now for days you-all have been constantly with Johanna. Why do you?"
Mrs. Lewis' brows drew together, puzzled. "I have never asked myself such a question. The need is here. That is enough. How far would we get if we didn't help each other?"
The girl chewed the end of her pencil. "I can't see you are getting anything but grief. Your husband is in jail, and all the time Kris was having that terrible time with her sore hand you took care of her."
"All I did was to see that she kept it in hot water. My mother always said that would draw corruption from the flesh."
"If it hadn't been for you, she would have died. I've seen arms bloat up and turn black like that before. They always die."
"It was the priesthood saved her, not me."
"I reckon some of it was punishment. That was a nasty thing she did."
"She didn't know what she was doing."
"Well," Patty Lou was definite, "if she meant it or not, she got into plenty of trouble over it. Matt won't speak to her and she lost Tom."
She gave up Thomas Bedloe, Mrs. Lewis replied tartly, "and a mighty good thing it was. After the way he tricked her."
"That's what she says, but she can read when she wants to; but I was talking about you helping us. Why do you do it?"
"Why not? Brother Lewis says trouble refines us."
"Hum-m. If misery makes saints I reckon we should all rise and shine. Of all the miseries I ever heard of this place has the most kinds."
Mrs. Lewis sighed. "You hit the nail on the head that time, but from what I hear we shall know worse. Once I rebelled against it, but now I am too busy to give it a thought. Now, dear, don't forget Johanna." She hurried away in the direction of her own home.
As soon as she was out of sight, Patty Lou tiptoed into the lean-to. Johanna was asleep. A sudden aching premonition caught the girl and she leaned close. Yes. She was breathing. Patty Lou took a bonnet that was lying on a packing box and fanned it gently over both Johanna and the baby. The sleeping girl did not stir, but a slight, very slight sigh escaped her lips. With eyes blinded by tears, Patty laid down the bonnet, and went back to the stump. The girls had traded everything from their big chest for that bed for Johanna.
For a few minutes she wrote laboriously, but resolutely. She wanted the letter finished so that the girl on the donkey leaving camp for Nauvoo could take it.




FORWARD, WITHOUT FEAR THE next time she went to see Johanna she was lying exactly as she had been before. For the first time in her life the girl knew stark fear. She must get away from that bloodless, too quiet face on the pillow. Quickly she transferred the mosquito netting from the baby to Johanna. Then she hurried back to her writing, but she did not write. She felt an overwhelming desire to go for Mrs. Lewis. Once she started down the trail, but turned and came back. "I must not be a coward," she told herself. "I know Mrs. Lewis is plumb tired." But her nervousness increased, and when she saw Helga coming she was so relieved quick tears filled her eyes. She realized she was trembling all over. "Evening," she called loudly to hide her agitation. "You-all's been a long time coming." "I worked," Helga answered. "She didn't want any sewing done today so I washed. I think I worked harder than ever in my life." With someone present to assume responsibility, Patty Lou's fears were gone. Immediately she was her carefree self. "Another crazy gal," she cried scornfully. "I wouldn't do anybody's washing. Walk four miles and do a scrubbing just for the fun of being uncomfortable. I'd rather go home. That is why I am writing to papa. How much did she give you, thirty-five cents?" "Twenty-five," Helga corrected. Back in Loftshammar throw a fit, as you say, if they knew what the Mortensen girls were doing?" She nodded toward the shelter. "How is she?" 645 "Mighty poorly, but she is sleeping now. Mrs. Lewis will be back directly." Helga went in, and when she came back she had the baby. Crooning softly she held the tiny face up to her own. "She was stirring," she told Patty Lou. "I was afraid she would wake Johanna." Patty Lou smiled absently. She knew Helga's habit of making excuses for holding Baby Anna, but she was more interested in the basket Helga had brought home. "Did you-all buy something?" "Yes. I went by the trading post on my way home. It is just a piece of smoked salmon for Johanna. Doesn't it look good? It smells like home." The Southern girl wrinkled her nose contemptuously. "Fan me up a breeze. If Norway smells like that I am glad I'm from Alabama." She looked intently at the piece of fish. "I reckon you-all paid all your money for it. Why don't somebody buy something I like?" "How is she?" They turned and Niels was standing behind them. He looked wretched. He had lost his cap, and his thick hair was standing up in all directions. One sleeve of his shirt was torn and there was a skinned place on one cheek. His upper lip was cut and swollen. "Niels," Helga cried. "You have been fighting again." With a movement of utter despair he dropped to the stump and took his head between his hands. He groaned aloud. "What happened?" Helga asked. Something was always happening to Niels. His English had improved. 646 "I am unloading de boat." He used his huge hands to describe the lifting. "Big boxes. Big barrels." "But what happened?" "All day by me a man he talks, talks. All day I keep my hands down. Den he wishes he got one crack at de Mormon Prophet. I take one crack." Patty Lou laughed aloud. "I?ll bet it was a good one. How many teeth did you knock out?" Niels lifted his head. He grinned shyly. "I don't count. Dey come eight-ten. I fight good but de boss won't pay. I started de fight." It was an effort for Helga to speak cheerfully. "Never mind, we'll manage someway; but for Johanna's sake you should try harder. Sometimes I wish you couldn't understand English." He got up abruptly and started for the house, but Patty Lou caught his arm. "Wait a minute. Got the wash basin and towel for him. "Wash the blood and dirt off your face, and comb your hair." While he was washing, Helga took the baby inside. When she came back he was brushing ineffectually at his hair. "She is awake now. Go in and see her; but don't tell her about the fight." Only after he had gone did Patty Lou notice how drawn Helga's face was. Her eyes were wide with fear. "You better go for Sister Lewis." When Matilda Lewis came she said very little. To the girls' delight Johanna ate nearly half the small piece of fish. For days she-had taken nothing but water and a thin gruel. Mrs. Lewis' eyes were more watchful, if possible, but Niels and the girls relaxed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 Niels gathered twigs to start their campfire, while Helga made preparations for their scanty meal. Patty fed the baby a little sweetened water from a spoon. Back along a road that roughly followed the river from Montrose, Ann Kristin was placing one weary foot ahead of another. To the east, the sun's slanting rays made a mirror of the water. Grimly she recalled her emotions when first she had looked across the Mississippi toward Nauvoo. She had stood on the wharf after leaving the River Maid, and in that moment the shining dreams of her girlhood had seemed realized. Life stretched before her, a radiant vista of love, peace, and security. Security was gone. Peace she had not yet found, and love?had she lost even love? "I could stand the poverty, the humiliation," she said aloud, "even my withered hand, if only I could do something about Elder Lewis." On her good arm she carried a basket, a replica of the one Helga had carried. Niels had woven them from willows. They carried them whenever they worked, for their pay was usually in produce. The soft clop of horses' hoofs made her look up. She stepped aside to let the buggy pass. Opposite her, the driver stopped his team abruptly. "Kristin. What on earth??" It was Thomas Bedloe. He stared at her in unbelief. "What in the world are you doing here?this way?" Ann Kristin had thrust her bad hand into the pocket of her skirt. "T have been looking for work," she answered, shortly. "But?you mean you walked to FORWARD, WITHOUT FEAR Montrose to find work? You mean ?work?" His tone told her all he was thinking. "We must eat, although I have found we can get by with very little of it." Twisting his reins about the brake handle, Bedloe got out. "Allow me." He made as if to help her in the buggy. "I will drive you back." She did not move. "Thank you. I will walk." He studied her. She was very thin, and her bonnet did not entirely hide the effect of wind and sun on her hair. In her eyes a shadow had replaced the fun and laughter. The shadow was not fear, of that he was sure. It could be hurt. He spoke quickly. "Haven't you forgiven me yet? I have tried to explain, darling." "Explain. Will that get Elder Lewis out of jail? He didn't take that money, Tom. I know he didn't. Tell me one thing," she demanded suddenly, "when I signed that paper did you know they would arrest him?" "Must we go over that again? Can't you take my word for it?" "If you will give me your word. Did you or didn't you know they would arrest Elder Lewis?" She wanted desperately to hear him say he, like her, had been duped. She wanted to believe he had not tricked her. Watching her, Bedloe's eyes softened. "Darling, if I erred I did it be cause I loved you. I may have said more than I intended, but they have been hunting a chance to arrest someone. It is all part of the scheme to discourage us, For the 647 same reason his trial has been postponed time and time again." There was no mistaking the love and desire in his eyes. Ann Kristin felt her color rise. It was all so confusing. If he loved her, why had he allowed this thing to happen? More to herself than to him, she explained: "Some English I understand perfectly, but not legal terms ?and the way he fired questions at me was so confusing. I had no idea what I was doing. I have gone to them time and time again. I have tried to withdraw the complaint." "Darling! If you would only marry me as we had planned. You know I shall always love you. When we are married I will use my influence to get him released. I do have considerable influence in Montrose, you know. You are so uncomfortable. Come with me. I want to take care of you." The girl's eyes leaped with sudden hope. She hated this camp. She hated these coarse dusty clothes she wore. She hated asking for work and seeing disdain in the eyes of those she asked. Seeing her indecision, Bedloe intensified his persuasion. In the end she said: "Tomorrow I will give you my answer. Now I must walk and think." With a promise that he would see her tomorrow, he drove reluctantly away. When he had gone, she drew her hand from her pocket. She looked at it, and laughed harshly. It was not enough that she had lost her beloved Norway, her parents, her security. Now she must suffer this?this nightmare. And she must not let Tom see it until after?she must not tell him her beautiful belongings were gone?for food, for medicine, for those things 648 that sustained her physical body while her other self withered and died. She could not go on in this way, with no hope, no future. At the trading post she looked about for Niels. He had said he would be working at the wharf all day. She did not see him; but a number of men, evidently just off work, stared at her so boldly she pulled her bonnet closer about her face and hurried away. Then she thought she saw him between the brush on the trail that led to camp. She called and hurried to overtake him. He turned and too late she saw it was Matt Lewis. She had been carrying the basket on her sore arm; but now she shifted it quickly and put her hand in her pocket again. "I?I thought it was Niels," she stammered. "I was going to walk with him." "Won't I do?" He watched her closely. He thought, she has changed. She is still bitter?no, not bitter. Sick and discouraged. His quick glance saw the hand in her pocket. Rudely he snatched it and held it so he could look at it. Fingers were drawn and taut. "Are you using it?" he demanded. "T can't." For a full minute he did not answer. He turned her hand over. He flexed her fingers. He spoke, and there was command, reproof, and something she could not name in his voice. "That night when you were so ill and mother sent for me, I promised you something. Remember?" She nodded without speaking. "Then you must help. If your arm is to become whole you must The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 do as I said. The Lord expects us to do what we can." "It's no use," she cried rebelliously. "I have tried and it's no use. There is nothing for me but sorrow." For a moment they walked together in silence. He had not released her hand. "We can't understand completely," he said at length. "Perhaps you need a lesson in walking humbly, by faith." She snatched her hand away. Presently he saw her wipe her eyes. "What's the matter with Bedloe? I thought you would be married by now. Isn't he pressing his suit?" He threw the words at her. She did not know it, but the night she had been so ill had not been easy for him. Before he had administered to her he had gone off by himself. There on his knees he had asked that all rancor be removed from his heart, so there would be nothing between them to stay the answering of the blessing for her. His heart had been at peace, but now he was again restless and unhappy, but for a different reason. He did not want a woman who was in love with a scoundrel. "We may be married tomorrow," she answered, matching his tone. She did not look at him. "He is doing well now. He could give me a home." "Yes. He could give you a home. That is more than?many others could do. Just what does he do? I have never been able to find out definitely." "Why don't you ask him?" "I would if I could get close enough to him. He takes care to keep out of my way." No matter how they started, thev always ended by quarreling. Hei FORWARD, WITHOUT FEAR 649 heart ached for understanding and
peace. "How are conditions in Nauvoo? Could I get work there, now that my
hand is better?" ''Conditions are bad. I hear the charter may be repealed."
''What does that mean?" "More lawlessness, probably more deaths among the brethren. Certainly, another move. Our patience and forbearance are being taxed beyond endurance." As they came into the clearing, Helga looked up from the corncakes she was cooking. Ann Kristin handed her the basket. "Ann Kristin Mortensen, where did you get this food? Fish, hominy, potatoes? even a little salt pork. You could not have earned this much in three days. Where did you get it?" "I'll explain later." Patty Lou took the basket from Helga, and started for the table. "Jake came," she called over her shoulder. "He's behind the lean-to talking to Niels.? ?I?ll see them.? Matt started toward the thicket, but stopped short. Coming up the trail were two men. They were the same two officers who had  arrested his father two months before. "Be careful what you say," he warned the girls. (To be continued) Money Isn't Everything (Continued from page 619) and suddenly, like a rising fog, doubt and misgiving welled up in her being to veil the shining splendor of her new-found happiness. She shook herself mentally, and
was surprised to note the letter, still unopened, in her hand. The missive was hastily scrawled and difficult to decipher. Halfway down the page, a paragraph focused and held her attention. "I hate to tell you this, but George and I are getting a divorce. He is going back to the ranch. I am to keep the boy. He's quite a handful ? been running around nights while I am at work, and got into some trouble. I am worried sick about him. Please do hurry and come out.
When you get here with Dick, I think Junior will be more content to stay in evenings. He and Dick always got along so well together, and-" "Hi, Mom," called Dick from the gate, "Dad says you can pack his jeans, too. He's going with us! Isn't that swell?? Suppressing a wild impulse to laugh and cry at the same time, Alice rallied her faculties to call back saucily, "Tell your dad, young man,
that I've no time to be taking any such orders from him. I'm going to be busy unpacking. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From The Field," appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. RELIEF SOCIETY WAR AND WELFARE SERVICES IN MISSIONS (Continued from Magazine for October) Canadian Mission JESSIE R. URSENBACH, president of the Canadian Mission Relief Society, writes as follows concerning the "Bundles for Britain" project which is carried on by the Relief Society women of this mission: "During the Battle of Britain, when hearts and homes of members of this mission were severely torn, the idea of sending bundles to Britain was born. Sister Johan Mark, a faithful member from Scotland whose own mother died as a result of the blitz, was the originator of the idea, with the approval and full support of the mission presidents, President David A. Smith and Sister Emily Smith and of their successors, the late President Joseph Quinney and Sister Ida Quinney. "Twenty pounds per month was the amount allowed by shipping authorities, so early in this year, when President Octave W. Ursenbach was appointed as mission president and Sister Jessie R. Ursenbach was set apart to preside over the Relief Societies, letters were sent out to all Relief Societies, requesting that this be made a mission project. 'Showers for Britain' in connection Page 650 with their annual day commemorations were suggested, so that there would be plenty of clothing always ready, and the bundles could be sent out as regularly and as often as permitted.; "The letters met with enthusiastic co-operation, and, very soon, bundles large and small began arriving at the mission home. Many organizations sent several beautiful bundles. They were filled with warm, clean necessities for the newborn, and for children mostly from six to ten years of age, with some for adults as well. 'The care with which they were prepared bore eloquent testimony of the loving mother-hearts behind the project. Everything was clean and ready for shipment. "Each bundle was accompanied by a postal note of three dollars, the sum necessary to insure its delivery to Britain. In some cases the second bundle with the second postal note arrived from the same organization, and always with some expression; such as, 'When you need more, let us know,' "We are already preparing winter things,' or 'We will soon send another bundle of things to you.' "The joy of Relief Society sisters in preparing these bundles has been expressed by letter, verbally, and by the tiny stitches, touches of delicate embroidery, and individuality that went into their careful preparation. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 651 PACKING A BUNDLE FOR BRITAIN Left to right: Missionary Virginia Parker, formerly, mission Relief Society supervisor listing articles received; Johan Mark, originator of Branch Relief Society presidency; Margaret Zu formerly mission Relief Society supervisor, list the idea and formerly a counselor in the Toronto Branch Relief Society; Gertrude Wagner, secretary, Toronto Branch Relief Society: Missionary Genevieve Bird; at extreme right, Jessie R. Mission President Octave W. Ursenbach. KITCHENER BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, CANADIAN MISSION Seated are the officers, left to right: Mrs. E. Steinmetz, first counselor; Mrs. E. Willis, president; Mrs. A. Willis, second counselor; Mrs. J. W. Stott, Jr., secretary-treasurer. Standing fourth from the left is Lillian C. Roberts, formerly a member of the Relief Society General Board, who with her husband, Elder I, B. Roberts, of Raymond, Alberta, Canada, is laboring as a full-time missionary. We know this service has drawn our sisters who have participated closer together in a bond of mutual companionship, such as can be found only where unselfish, loving service is given in a worthy human cause. "The bundles go out regularly, and Sister Ursenbach and her willing, enthusiastic workers are trying to arrange with the shipping authorities to send them oftener, that the needs of our dear ones over there who suffer may be filled as have the hearts of the Canadian sisters who have so lovingly, willingly given." KINGSTON BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, CANADIAN MISSION A new Society, recently organized, with President Leora Todd and Secretary Delcie Knobes standing: at the extreme right, respectively. BRANTFORD BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, CANADIAN MISSION Left to right: Jean Sharpe, Eliza Sharp, Counselor Marie Jamieson, President Rose Vanderlip. Secretary Mae Bayliss, and Elsie Kennedy. Counselor Laura Lewis was not present when
the picture was taken.  The Oshawa Branch Relief Society, Canadian Mission, although sustained by only four members and two missionaries, has been exceptionally co-operative in the mission-wide "Bundles for Britain" project. The Oshawa sisters found it very difficult to raise the $3 needed to dispatch each bundle, but they made and sold aprons and obtained funds to finance a second bundle. Of the fifteen Societies in the mission, Oshawa was the only one which sent double
its quota, when the first bundles were received at mission headquarters. Sister Esther Ward, seated center, very happily offers her home or the meetings. She is 84 years of age. Standing, left to right, are Nelda Pierson, missionary ; Ella Crouter, president ; Wanda Wannamaker, Mrs. Thomas Dalgleish, Jr., and Evelyn Knowles, missionary. TORONTO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, CANADIAN MISSION
Seated in front, beginning second from left, are: Secretary Gertrude Wagner, Counselor Johan Mark, President Margaret Zuber, and Jessie R. Ursenbach, mission Relief Society president. Counselor Martin does not appear in the picture. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Spanish-American Mission IVIE H. JONES, President of the Relief Societies of the Spanish. American Mission, standing service in teaching sewing skills to the women through the medicles and also Containing recipes, other useful folders ate provided so that each member may have <t Personal copies of these mimeostaphed sheets. In her travels throughout the mis. Sion, Sister Jones carries several exhibits in order to demonstrate to the kindly Prepared a description of each these articles in sufficient detail to help others desiring to adopt these Suggestions, Supplementing the Photograph are sketches showing utilization of a man's used shirt for an oatmeal carton, three-pound s1ze, covered with crash decorated with bright touches of embroidery and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?-NOVEMBER 1944 654 Diagram showing the cutting of dust cap, half sleeves, child?s panties and baby rompers from man?s used shirt, applique from old felt hats. After learning to make the fitted bottom for this bag, the women have been able to adapt the idea in making
fitted coverings for chairs, suitcases, et cetera. The attractive cord for the bag, made of two colors of silkaline, twisted on the wheel of a sewing machine, has stimulated the making of similar cords for dress trimmings, curtain tiebacks, strings for children's mittens, and many other purposes. On July 27, Sister Jones wrote: "Since April conference, I have visited every Relief Society in the mission and every district where we have Relief Society sisters, even
though they have no organization whatever. We are losing our elders rapidly, and are closing a number of districts within the next week or so, but, in the face of all of it, conditions in the Relief Societies are very much on the upturn. We have had good attendance, there being a total of 389 in attendance at Relief Society meetings over the mission. This is better than 100 more than our total enrollment, which shows that our sisters have done a splendid piece of work in interesting investigators. ?Every Relief Society now owns a quilting frame excepting Mercedes, Texas, and they could not buy lumber as there isn't a foot of it in the town. Every Relief Society has made one quilt and sent to mission headquarters, and all are now working on comforters or quilts for their own
members. The project is going over even better than I could have hoped for. 654 Articles from Several Exhibits Used by Ivie H. Jones, Mission Relief Society President, in the Relief Societies of the Spanish-American Mission. (See accompanying detailed descriptions) NOTES FROM THE FIELD 655 EXHIBIT 1?ARTICLES FROM USED FELT HATS ARTICLE 1?HAT MADE FROM MAN'S HAT: (a) Sweat band removed; (b) Crown folded at top of ribbon band, and then crown turned inside out; (c) Brim tilted slightly in front and bright red feather slipped under ribbon band at side front. Time required, exclusive of cleaning?two minutes. ARTICLE 2?CROWN OF MAN'S BLACK HAT AND WOMAN'S WHITE HAT MAKE THIS CREATION: Crown on man's hat was badly worn at the crease on top so a freehand design was cut out and stitched by hand onto the crown of the white hat. Horsehair braid bow in front. ARTICLES 3, 4?BABY SHOES: Brims of both hats were used for baby shoes. Surplus of crown of man's hat used for toe piece of shoe, since brim was rather stiff for that purpose. ARTICLE 5?KNITTING BAG: Tan crash bag with design made from used felt hats, slipped over a 3-pound oatmeal carton. Fitted bottom and double drawstring at top made of two colors of silkaline are neat features. Drawstring is twisted on wheel of sewing machine. EXHIBIT 2?ARTICLES MADE OF MAN'S SHIRT Many useful articles can be made from a used shirt; however, like many other pieces of used clothing, if the shirt must be ripped, recut, and finishings made, the material will not justify the labor. These particular articles are designed to take advantage of seams, hems, buttonholes, etc. ARTICLE 6?HALF SLEEVES TO WEAR IN GARDEN: Shirt sleeve is cut just below worn part at elbow. Hem at top and use elastic if available. ARTICLE 7?CHILD'S PANTIES: Made from upper part of sleeves. Bottom of leg comes at elbow of sleeve, each sleeve making one pantie leg. No ripping necessary. 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 ARTICLE 8?BABY ROMPERS: Shirt is usually worn at neck where collar touches. (a) Cut just above first buttonhole, making back neck of rompers. Then straight out to arms eye seam. This felled seam makes the hem on the bottom of the sleeve, (b) The front of the shirt makes the back of the romper and the back makes the front. Gathers and top-smocking at neck uses the surplus fullness across back of shirt. The only hand work is stitching on the loop at the bottom of front piece and embroidering top-smocking at neck. ARTICLE 9?DUST CAP: Made of front tail of shirt sewed together. Do not cut off hem. The yoke of the shirt, merely bound at the neck with bias tape where collar was removed, completes the front turnback. ARTICLE 10?WOMAN'S BEDROOM SLIPPERS: Top made from used khaki color work shirt and sole from light shirt too worn for other purposes. Sole is tightly braided and braid turned on end and sewed to form sole. Slipper is lined with felt from used hat. EXHIBIT 3?ARTICLES MADE FROM MEN'S TROUSERS ARTICLE 11-?-LITTLE BOY'S LONG-BIB PANTS AND MITTENS: Made of scraps are lined with dark gray outing flannel. ARTICLE 12?SEWING OR SHOPPING BAG: Outside of bag made from brown corduroy trousers. Lining from rayon underwear dyed orange. Handles are shoe trees painted orange, and design is made from dyed yarn from old sweaters. ARTICLE 13?MAN'S BEDROOM SLIPPERS: Wooden sole with leather hinge. Top of slipper made from worn trousers, merely tacked onto sole. EXHIBIT 4?CARE OF CLOTHING ARTICLE 14?SUIT OR DRESS COVER: Excellent item for any household. Requires 2 yards of 36" material, and 11/2 yards of bias tape for binding opening. Top shaped to fit hanger. Saves many cleaning bills. ARTICLE 15?DOUBLE HOSE BAG: Made of flour sack or any other similar material. Three pieces of material 18x18 inches required. Cut to fit plain wooden hanger. Front and back have oval openings for inserting hose. Third piece left plain for partition. Design and letters are made with crayola steamed in. Lettering on the one side is "darned" and on the other "undarned." 'This bag makes an excellent non-snag container that can hang in clothes closet. MISCELLANEOUS EXHIBITS ARTICLE 16?GIRL'S SPORT SLIPPER: Made of cat-tail stems braided 3, 4, and 6 strands. Braid sewed on end to join sole; edge of sole and the decoration is painted after shoe is completed. ARTICLE 17?CHILD'S SLEEVELESS SHIRT: When union suits are completely worn out, the slanted flaps make lapped shirt fronts, with original hems at edges. Bind neck and armholes. There will usually be the part that folds across the back still worth using. Shirt may be fastened by string, snap, or button. The cuff part of the sleeves or legs could make sleeves for this shirt by merely stretching or fulling into armhole, leaving finished edge at bottom of sleeve. ARTICLES 18, 19, 20, 21, 22?POT HOLDERS: Materials required: One-half of a wash cloth, 2 yards of six-ply embroidery thread, piece of inner tube for lining, raveled twine from flour sack for ring at top, and pieces of bias tape or other colorful material for trimmings. Because of the scarcity of rubber, we will have to forego this luxury for the duration. Inner tube can be used over and over with different covers. It prevents burning the hands and goes through the washer and wringer making ironing unnecessary. Rubber squares in these particular pieces are fully ten years old. If you ever use them, you'll never want any other kind of pot holder. Ironing Procedures
Claire P. Dorius
Equipment: Much of the drudgery of ironing is eliminated if one has the proper equipment. The ironing board should be well padded, firmly mounted, and a comfortable height. The pad should be covered with a smooth, clean cover.
Arrange equipment conveniently?the dampened clothes at the left on a chair or low table to prevent bending over; and the clothes rack to the right within easy reach. Have a supply of coat hangers at hand. Hangers for blouses, shirts, and dresses will save time and preserve the appearance and shape of the garment.
Sprinkle and smooth out wrinkles. Proper sprinkling, removing of unnecessary wrinkles, and rolling up garments will cut down ironing time considerably and produce better results. To dampen clothes use a bottle with a perforated top or an ordinary whisk broom. Use warm water. It penetrates the fabric more readily. Be sure that all parts are lightly and evenly dampened. If possible, roll up clothes in a rubber sheet for even distribution of moisture. Let stand for at least two hours or overnight if possible. But not longer than twenty-four hours as mildewing may set in.
To conserve on fuel, begin ironing fabrics that need low heat. It is easier to iron collars, cuffs, sleeves, belts, and trimmings before the flat sections of the garment.
Cottons and linens (white and colored) are ironed on the right side, and dark-colored ones, silks and rayons on the wrong side. Table linens are ironed first on the right and then on the wrong side. Change the place for folds in the flat pieces to preserve the life of the material. Each piece should dry thoroughly before putting away. Most irons or ironers have heat control indicators, follow these carefully. If not, the following temperatures have been found to be the most satisfactory: Cottons and linens need relatively high heat; wool and silk moderate heat; rayon, low heat. If the material is acetate rayon very low heat is needed. Combinations of fibers?adjust heat to fiber that requires the lowest temperature.
If you have a mangle, learn to use it efficiently. It will take care of all the flat pieces and many other pieces as skill in its use is developed. Table cloths should be folded selvedge to selvedge, right side out. Iron first on one side and then on the other. Fold again lengthwise and iron on both sides again?fold to put away.
Curtains may need to be dried on curtain stretchers. It is necessary, of course, that the stretchers be adjusted evenly to get satisfactory results. However, many of the curtain panels that are for sale at the present time, do not require any stretching or stretching. These fine rayon fabrics should never be exposed to excessive heat or sunlight because they are apt to deteriorate. Such curtains should never be allowed to become very soiled. They should be washed in a mild soapsuds by squeezing through and through the material. Rinse very thoroughly but carefully. Do not 658 wring or pull or rub. Roll in a turkish towel when wet and knead out the moisture. Fold in the center lengthwise and iron with a warm iron. Never use a hot iron. Some panels look well if hung between two curtain rods until almost dry and then pressed. Men's soft shirts: Begin by ironing the yoke first on the wrong side and then on the right. Next the collar, first the wrong side, then right side until perfectly dry, pulling tightly and working from the points in. Iron neckband completely dry. Shape collar by hand, iron edge of crease. For the front and back, first iron the back, then buttonhole side of front, then button side. Iron both sides of front pleat, holding it firmly to prevent wrinkles. Then iron the sleeves. First the cuffs, ironing the same as the collar. Nose iron up into the gathers. Straighten sleeves from underarm seam; iron on both sides. Iron underarm seam dry. Button the collar before putting the shirt on a hanger. Pressing: The pressing cloth should have a smooth weave free from lint. Light-weight muslin and sateen are very good. If the garment to be pressed is very heavy, more than one thickness of pressing cloth will be needed. When pressing a woolen fabric, place the garment on the ironing board so that the yarns in the weave run straight. Each time you shift the garment be sure the yarns lie straight. Dampen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 the pressing cloth lightly and evenly; place it on the wrong side of the garment to be pressed. Use a medium hot iron. Press down lightly on the iron; lift it and press down on the next section. Do not move the iron as you do in ironing. Do not press until the cloth is dry. The garment should be moist when you have finished pressing it; then hung on a coat hanger to dry. Miscellaneous Blanket Care?15 things to remember: Wash only one blanket at a time. Make rich heavy suds with mild, alkaline-free soap or flakes. Be sure soap is thoroughly dissolved before adding blanket. Soften the water?keep temperature 100?F. If using washing machine do not let it run more than 3 minutes, by hand not more than 3 to 5 minutes, no longer. Never rub or scrub a blanket. If blanket is still soiled, repeat the process. After washing, squeeze water from blanket, never twist. Loosen the roller in the wringer. To dry?hang blanket lengthwise across two lines. Pull it gently into shape. Blankets dry best on mild breezy days. Never hang in extreme cold or heat. References: "Life Insurance for Your Washables," White King Soap Company. "Short Cuts to Fine Laundering," General Electric Company, Bridgeport, Conn.: America's Housekeeping Book. Chapter 22, p. 272. SUPERSCRIPTION Jessie Miller Robinson As long ago, a monk with patient strokes of care Rubbed out a worldly ode to cover with a prayer The priceless vellum; Lord, I ask thee to erase All wrong desire, and write pure Love upon my face, -Theology Church History Lesson 5?The Kirtland Period Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, February 6, 1945 Objective: To study the beginning of the "rising up and the coming forth of my church out of the wilderness" (Doc. And Cov. 5:14). THE spring of 1830 found the Church of Jesus Christ organized again upon the earth. The pattern was once more outlined whereby men could enter the kingdom through faith, repentance, and the waters of baptism, which rebirth then brought confirmation and the gift of the Holy Ghost. These four simple acts provided a way SO clear that none could err therein. Yet they were profound enough to touch the lives of all living souls even to the four corners of the earth. God had promised believers that "signs would follow" those who did his will which now could be explained by his authorized servants who held the Holy Priesthood. The promise was that his church should "rise up and come forth out of the wilderness." This was an inspiring yet awesome thought. To those who had embraced the new faith and reflected upon its. Wonders, the following reason became apparent. 'The Lord had said the church of men had forms of godliness but denied the power thereof. Could he therefore plant a personal testimony in the hearts of those who were to seek him through the leaders of Christendom who sought not his will but their own? No, the truth must come through humble men whom the world called weak and despised, men of the earth, nourished as it were in the wilderness, apart from the more frequented paths of social life. His voice again would come through such servants crying repentance. If it was hard, as we have seen, for the first favored members of the "little flock" to believe, what then might be expected of others, unschooled in the ways of the Lord, who were to hear the gospel message? Often changes in life are painful even if all the evidence for such changes is apparent. In temporal matters the need for new patterns of living often reveal themselves, but in things of the spirit, only those Page 659 660 who are willing through faith to learn, may see. The Church was organized but its paths ahead were to lead through the struggling ways of little known regions. On Sunday, April 11, 1830, the first public meeting of the organized Church of Jesus Christ was held. Oliver Cowdery, its second elder, delivered its first public discourse. Six new members were baptized that day, and seven the following Sunday in Lake Seneca. Later in the month, Joseph Smith held meetings in the home of Joseph Knight at Colesville, Broome County, New York. It was during these meetings that Newel Knight, a son of Joseph Knight, became possessed of a devil which the Prophet cast out. Newel had promised to pray in the meeting before his friends, but became timid when the time arrived. Still exhibiting faith in the power of God, he sought his Maker in the woods nearby, at which time he was possessed by the evil spirit. So miraculous was his healing, that he and many of those present, who witnessed the event, later became members of the Church. This first miracle of the Church, it should be noted, followed as a sign for those who had believed and attended the meetings. It did not come to satisfy the skepticism of scoffers. Things of wonder spread rapidly. "A church of miracles and a new Bible," went the word over the countryside. Both at Colesville, where he had been, and at Fayette to which place he returned, the talk of strange things came back to the Prophet. On the first day of June 1830, the first conference of the Church was held in Fayette. The outpouring of the Spirit was rich. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 Many baptisms followed. After the conference Joseph returned again to his home in Pennsylvania, and soon after this, with his wife, he went once more to the home of Joseph Knight in Colesville where he found many who believed ready for baptism. Plans were laid for a service. And a dam was constructed. A mob of the neighborhood set to work tearing this dam away. 'The service which was to have been held on a Sunday was of necessity postponed until Monday. Peace was not to be had from then on at the Knight home. During another visit from the Prophet a mob surrounded the house. Joseph faced the angry men in vain, endeayoring to pacify them. Events moved on, culminating in the arrest of the Prophet on two different occasions while serving the Colesville Branch. At the end of both trials he was set free, nothing having been proved against him. During these troublesome times the Lord remained close to Joseph revealing to him his mind and will. At the Whitmer home, with the assistance of his wife and David Whitmer, the early revelations were arranged and copied. In June of this year came what is known as the "Visions of Moses" (Pearl of Great Price, p. 1). August brought another visit from a heavenly messenger with instructions concerning the administration of the Lord's Supper (Doc. And Cov., Sec. 27:1-4). It was in this month of the year, too. That the break occurred between Joseph and his father-in-law, Mr. Isaac Hale, and the Prophet and his wife Emma went to live at the Whitmers. Things in Fayette were not all favorable for Joseph. Dissensions LESSON DEPARTMENT had arisen among his followers there due to a stone in the possession of Hiram Page, one of the eight' witnesses of the plates of the Book of Mormon. Spurious revelations had misled many, even some of the most prominent members, such as Oliver Cowdery. In the name of the Lord the Prophet informed his friends that these writings were from Satan, and called upon Oliver to induce Hiram Page to do away with the stone and all it had brought. This was done with the result that a complete settlement of differences then existing in the Church followed (Doc. And Cov. 28:1-8). In the revelation concerning the matter of the stone, the Lord also called Oliver Cowdery on a mission to the Lamanites. 'There was a positive look forward in this revelation. If in one way his purposes apparently are thwarted, he will accomplish them in another. Throughout the early rising of his church in the wilderness there are many instances of this. Often in the very midst of trouble and dissensions among the saints, would come the call to new and distant fields of service. The Lord knew where his sheep were willing and ready to hear his voice, and would instruct the servants of his organized Church to carry the message to them. Those who were big enough to heed his word and rise above their petty grievances, lived to bring added joy to their own testimonies, and strength to the Church through new converts. The promised gathering of Israel lay at the base of these missionary journeys (Doc. And Cov. 10:65-66). With the missionary zeal that followed, a flood of new names was entered upon the Church. Many 661 of these became forever a part of the Mormon story that goes to make up the rise of the early Church of Jesus Christ in the fullness of times. Parley P. Pratt is one such name, This man, born April 12, 1807 in Otsego County, New York, and later a resident of Ohio, had returned to the East as a Campbellite minister. While on his journey he saw for the first time a copy of the Book of Mormon. He became converted, and joined the Church on the first of September 1830. In October of 1830, Parley P. Pratt was called with Oliver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer Jr., and Ziba Peterson to carry out the first mission to the Lamanites earlier revealed to Oliver Cowdery (Doc. And Cov. 32). It was on this mission which took the elders through Kirtland, the town near which Parley P. Pratt had owned a home in Ohio, that he visited his friend Sidney Rigdon. Other prominent Church leaders in addition to Rigdon were brought into the faith as a result of this mission, such men as: Isaac Morley, John Murdock, Lyman Wight, Edward Partridge, Frederick G. Williams, and Newel K. Whitney. All joined the Church and helped to provide a haven of refuge, even though but temporary, for the Prophet and his followers in the East, who, because of bitter persecution, were finally given the command to "assemble together at the Ohio" (Doc. And Cov. "But beyond Kirtland traveled this first party of elders. They passed through Sandusky, Ohio, thence to Cincinnati, to St. Louis, and finally on to Independence, Jackson County, Missouri. On this trip in addition to converting hundreds of souls 662 to the Church and establishing many branches, they presented the message of the Book of Mormon to the Catteraugus Indians near Buffalo, New York, the Wyandots near Sandusky, Ohio, and to the Indians of the plains, the Delawares, across the Kansas River. In February of 1831, it was decided that Parley P. Pratt should return to Kirtland with the great news of the mission just completed. Upon his arrival in March he found the Prophet there to greet him, Joseph having come because of the wish of the Lord which was made known during the third conference of the Church held January 2, 1831, at Fayette. In Ohio, he had said, the law of God should be given them and they should be endowed with power from on high. The Kirtland period of the Church which rose "clear as the moon" is so richly filled with the wonders of his word, that not one, nor dozens of lessons could adequately cover it. We shall have occasion to study more in detail at a later time the far reaching results of the few years roughly between 1831 and 1838, that go to make up the first large gathering of the saints in the country called Ohio. To name the more important things that occurred in or about this beautiful town of Kirtland will quicken the imagination of any Latter-day Saint. The Presiding Bishopric was organized; the Law of Consecration or the United Order was introduced; the first distinctive ordination to the office of High Priest was made; the Word of Wisdom was given; the First Presidency of the Church was organized; the first High Council of the Church was called; Zion's Camp, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 of which we will hear more in the next lesson, was marshalled; the Twelve Apostles were chosen, as also were the first and second quorums of Seventies; the Pearl of Great Price was translated; the Doctrine and Covenants was presented to the general assembly of the Church; and, as the crowning achievement of this period, the first temple to the Lord in the fullness of times was erected March 27, 1836. Only through the failure of the saints as a whole to comply with the commandments of the Lord did dissension and financial difficulties arise, which brought on bitter persecution for all, eventual apostasy for many, and removal to Missouri for those who'remained faithful. Yet even in the most bitter days of failure for this Kirtland period, the Lord set his people face forward again by commanding three of his apostles? Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde, and Willard Richards to open a new vineyard on the foreign soil of England. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggestive readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part in the Doctrine and Covenants to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word" which has been written especially for our life in this day. 1. When the President of the Church rises to address a general conference session he may be looked upon as any of the great seers of ancient Israel. Why? At the third conference of the Church held on January 2, 1831, at Fayette, New York, section 38 of the Doctrine and Covenants was: given in the presence of those LESSON DEPARTMENT assembled. Read this section and pay particular attention to verse 32. What two things are promised the saints in this verse? 2. How does the higher law as given by Christ embrace the lesser law?the Ten Commandments? The fulfillment of the first promise made in verse 32, that pertaining to the law, came, and is recorded in section 42. This section is fraught with great meaning for all who have taken upon them the name of the Lord. Its careful study will show Christ's love and mercy offered to those who will strive ever to keep the law. The fulfillment of the second promise is recorded in part in section 110. Read this section in class. 663 The next question may be used if needed for further class activity or it may be assigned for home study. Read the beautiful dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple, section 109. Extra readings: sections 28:14-16; 30, 32?the call of the first missionaries to the Lamanites; sections 34; 35; 36?the word of the Lord to Orson Pratt, Sidney Rigdon, and Edward Partridge; section 52?the sending of missionaries forth, following the fourth conference held in Kirtland, June 6, 1831, to assemble again in conference next at Missouri. See article "The Pearl of Great Price," by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, p. 611 of this issue of the Magazine. Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength? The Beatitudes Lesson 5?Blessed Are the Merciful Elder Bryant S. Hinckley For Tuesday, February 6, 1945 "Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy" (Matthew 5:7; III Nephi, 12:7). Objective: To show that mercy, essential to God's plan, is an ennobling quality important in our relationships with our fellow men. O be merciful is to have a heart made warm with the sunshine of kindness. If we are merciful, we search for the best in our fellows, instead of the worst; we seek extenuating circumstances, rather than incriminating ones; we are slow to condemn, and quick to commend. Mercy is a spontaneous expression of a loving heart. If we are merciful, we naturally think and say the best possible of our erring brother. When justice is meted out, we all plead for it to be tempered with mercy. Alma in speaking to his son Corianton expounded the doctrine of justice and mercy. (See Alma 42) The divine injunction to be merciful is magnificently expounded in Shakespeare's portrayal of the 664 character of Shylock in the Merchant of Venice?when Shylock demands his pound of flesh because the bond prescribes that he may do so. Then it is that Shakespeare puts into the mouth of the noble Portia these eloquent words: The quality of mercy is not strain'd, It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath. It is twice bless'd; It blesseth him that gives and him that takes. "Tis mightiest in the mightiest: it becomes The throned monarch better than _ his crown; His sceptre shows the force of temporal power, The attribute to awe and majesty, Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings; But mercy is above this sceptred sway, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 It is an attribute to God himself; And earthly power doth then show likest God's, When mercy seasons justice. (Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene I) The way to obtain mercy is to exercise it toward others. Let us be -assured that any man or woman who cherishes resentments and grudges, and who is intolerant toward others, is closing the door that opens the way to his own forgiveness, for in the final analysis the feelings that are in our own souls, the emotions that play upon our hearts determine whether or not we shall be the recipients of the mercy of God, and upon this rests our own forgiveness and our exaltation. Additional reference: Luke 6: 36-38. Literature New Testament Lesson 5?Gospel Literature of Saint John Dr. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, February 20, 1945 LIKE four fine voices singing in harmony, the four writers of the Gospels blend in their portrayal of the life and the message of the Savior. Each of them has his own individual approach and style in dealing with varied phases of the sacred theme; yet all are in unison, Matthew, for example, seems to take special interest in the sermons and sayings of the Master; Mark seems to have found joy in preserving significant incidents in the life of Jesus; Luke, as said in a previous lesson, was concerned primarily with writing the events and the words of the Master in sequence?as living history; John devoted himself more - It is enthroned in the hearts of kings, 36-38. LESSON DEPARTMENT to interpreting the spiritual life and the divine message of the Savior. It is only natural that from the "beloved disciple" we should get this more intimate portrayal. Of all those privileged to enjoy the friendship and confidence of the Master, none seemed to be held closer than John. He was a part of the family circle. Even on the cross the Savior committed to this devoted follower the care of his own mother; and from that time Mary lived in the home of John. The affection of the Savior for this disciple is brought to us with occasional delicate touches in the Gospel of St. John. Every chapter of this uplifting record also brings one nearer to the inner meaning of the gospel as it was taught and lived by the Son of God. Its opening lines give the keynote, and the central theme of the remarkable book? In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehendeth it not (John 1:1-5). Throughout this Gospel it is the truth that Jesus Christ was the veritable Son of God, one with the Father from the beginning?that is constantly impressed in word and deeds. Recognition of this divine truth is given at the outset by John the Baptist, who first announced himself as "the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord." And later, when Jesus appears, he says, "Behold the 665 Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world!" Following this incident, with swift strokes, John tells in his Gospel of the calling of the apostles, of the recognition by Peter and Nathanael of the Messiah. He depicts the first miracle?that of changing the water into wine, then he tells of the cleansing of the temple by the Savior, who with righteous indignation says to the money changers, "Take these things hence; make not my Fathers house an house of merchandise." After this comes another incident which adds emphasis to the fact that Jesus was indeed the Christ. Nicodemus, a Pharisee and a ruler of the Jews, comes in the night seeking wisdom from Jesus, and says, "Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him." And Jesus, instructing this leader, tells him among other things, "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." (John 3: 16). Another incident related by John is that of the "Woman at the Well." To this woman, one of the Samaritans, a mixed race despised by the Jews, Jesus not only gives spiritual counsel, but tells her that he is the long-looked-for Messiah. Throughout the Gospel of Saint John, this truth is impressed and reimpressed. Moreover, the divinity of the work of the Savior is brought forth in many oft-quoted lines. The emphasis in this Gospel is on the spiritual, the inner meaning of the message Christ brought to the 666 world. Following are some sayings to illustrate the point: Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God (John 3:5). The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise (John 5:19). I can of mine own self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just; because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me (John 5:30). If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself (John 7:17). Yet a little while am I with you, and then I go unto him that sent me (John 7:33)- Ye neither know me, nor my Father: if ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also (John 8:19). And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free (John 8:32). It is truths such as these, presented simply and impressively, that bring one closer to the inner meaning of the gospel. From a literary viewpoint, the Gospel of St. John is less Hebraic and more Grecian in form. Matthew, for example, has the basic characteristics of Hebrew wisdom literature, presenting the teachings of Christ in proverb-like sentences. With John there is more continuity, discussion of the principles presented. The Master is portrayed as an interpreter of the truths he would give to the world. He reasons with those who seek to understand. He meets the Pharisees on their own ground, anticipates and answers their questions, aimed at trapping RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 him with his own words. And during these discussions, he frequently voices gems of truth. Following are a few of these precious sayings: While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of light (John 12:36). For the poor always ye have with you; but me ye have not always (John 12:8). My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me (John 7:16). Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me (John 5:39). I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live (John 11:25). Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you (John 14:27). If ye love me, keep my commandments (John 14:15) Our indebtedness to John is great. He has preserved for us many priceless sayings of the Savior. A closer view is given us by this "beloved disciple" of Jesus presenting principles of the gospel. Added to this we have in the Gospel of St. John a number of incidents in the life of the Master not recorded in the other Gospels?stories that enrich and illuminate his life and work. Dr. Dinsmore says of this author: He (John) was persuaded that Jesus, the Christ, was the Son of God, the Eternal Word.... The Eternal Light shines in the world's darkness?it divides men into the children of light and of darkness; the many love the darkness, but those who receive the light become the Sons of God..... This book has no analogue either in ancient or in modern times. A drama, cosmic in its range, written by a Hebrew in the Greek manner, of lucid profundity, the most disturbing, the most comforting of all books, filled with sadness, filled with hope, love pervading it as an atmosphere, LESSON DEPARTMENT 667 It is the Church's Most precious Spiritual document. To feel the uplift, the strength, the literary artistry of the gospel literature given to us by the ''beloved disciple," one must read and reread it with receptive mind and heart. John caught the divine import of the life and work of our Savior; and he portrayed the Son of God living and teaching truth? expounding through word and deed the way of salvation for all mankind. With artistic touches, with devotion to the sacred theme, he has bequeathed to the world a drama of divine love. 1, (a) Point out briefly individual in-terests or characteristics of each of the four authors of the Gospels. (b) What purpose and spirit bring harmony and unison to their work? 2. (a) What central theme is manifested in the Gospel of St. John? (b) Show by illustrative stories and words of the Savior how the theme is followed through this Gospel. 3. Try first to complete without help each of these sentences from the Gospel of St. John. Afterwards find the quotation in the chapter given. (a) "For the law was given by Moses, but grace and . . . . " (Chapter 1). (b) "Destroy this temple, and in . . . ." ( Chapter 2 ) . (c) "Except a man be born again, he . . . . " (Chapter 3). (d) "Except ye see signs and wonders . . . . " (Chapter 4). (e) "He that believeth on me . . . . " (Chapter 6). (f) "He that is without sin among you .... " (Chapter 8). (g) "As long as I am in the world . . . . " (Chapter 9). (h) "I am the good shepherd, and known . . . . " (Chapter 10). (i) "If ye know these things, happy . . . . " (Chapter 13). (j) "I am the way, the truth, and . . . ." (Chapter 14). (k) "And whatsoever ye shall ask in my .... " (Chapter 14). (1) "Greater love hath no man than this . . . . " (Chapter 15). 4. What are some of the qualities of the Gospel of St. John that make it great literature?  Charles A. Dinsmore, The English Bible as Literature, Chapter XV. Note: Dr. R. G. Moulton's The Modern Reader's Bible is once more available at The Deseret Book Co., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah. However, due to increased publisher's costs, the price to Relief Society workers is now $3 postpaid. Social Science Modern Applications of Ethical Principles Lesson 4?Freedom and Responsibility Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, February 27, 1945  Lesson Link, One month ago we took a mental an verbal survey of the road to righteousness. "It thinking and talking about it. Action and achievement beyond the ordinary, initiative, effort, accomplishment, these are the things that form the background to the moral life. Righteousness is a process; and he is best who keeps moving and who moves the farthest in the upward direction. Lesson aim. To show that freedom an that consequences follow acts; and that individuals are, therefore, morally responsible for their acts. IF the world is to be made any better or any happier than itis now, it will only be through some great moral reawakening. As long as large numbers of people live blindly, lazily, and selfishly, with little thought for tomorrow and little concern over improvement, humanity will continue to flounder in darkness and despair. As we have seen, it is only through intelligent creative effort that righteousness and supreme happiness are made possible. Creative activity springs from the free agency of man, but even it may become dissipated and perverted unless tempered and controlled by the spirit of responsibility. It is through the effort born of freedom and nurtured on responsibility that the greatest good is brought about and the greatest joy realized. Uses and Abuses of Freedom Man is a free agent capable of weighing alternatives, making decisions, and acting according to his choice. The question of whether man should be free in this way or should be compelled in all things was decided a long time ago in the council in heaven (Moses 4:1-4). And the decision there was a wise one, for out of free agency comes the opportunity for growth and righteous living. There are some who believe that man is not free in the way that we have explained here, but a little thought should dispel any doubt on this point. Some claim that since everything has a cause man is forced to act in the way he does act by the multiplicity of causes which have gone before. Man is not responsible for his thoughts and actions, they say, for both thoughts and actions are predetermined by all that precedes them. But no! This cannot be, for while it is true that everything has a cause, yet there must have been a first cause uncontrolled by precedents. Man is more than a piece of clay molded by circumstances, more than a puppet manipulated by fate. Man is a free agent, influenced by circumstances to be sure, but capable of rising above them. There is a spontaneity, a creative urge, a free agency (call it what you will) within the soul of every man that permits him to decide where he will go, and which makes him master of his own fate. If this were not so there would be little need to talk about morality and ethics, for regardless of the state of man's progress or happiness he could do nothing about it. He would be predestined to the fate before him and in the whirl of circumstances he would stand helpless. But ?fortunately such is not the case. Man does have the power to choose freely, and thereby to lift himself above the forces that would pull him down. Man is a creator; like God potentially. These fatalistic and deterministic 668 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 LESSON DEPARTMENT philosophies which picture man as a mere cog in a machine, devoid of free choice and free action, make the concept of ethics impossible and those of right and wrong ridiculous. Morality is based upon a scheme of free agency which lets man choose, but makes him responsible for the way he chooses. Though he may be foreordained, man is never predestined; though influenced by circumstances, man is never controlled entirely by them. The final choice is always up to the individual, freed of all compulsion, and that, of course, is why the individual is always responsible. Freedom, then, is a fact that makes moral responsibility imperative. But there is a tendency, widespread among us, to seek the privileges that freedom affords without accepting the responsibilities involved. It should be realized that freedom and responsibility are inseparably connected. It is impossible to have one without the other, and to try to do so is immoral. But people do try to dodge responsibility, and here are some of the ways: (1) They misinterpret freedom to mean the absence of all restraint and then, in their attempt to have it, they oppose all discipline and control from the outside. This is a distortion of the very meaning of freedom, for it selfishly sidesteps responsibility to others. Carried to its logical end it would mean anarchy and nihilism. Social restraints, whether imposed by parents, governments, or other agencies, are for the good of the individual as well as the group, and those who seek to throw them off often end up at the bottom of the hill. Freedom from the power and pull of evil is the final 669 goal to be sought and it can never be reached by indulgence. (2) They consider themselves to be victims of circumstances and in the spirit of self-justification and self-pity they throw off responsibility by offering excuses and blaming others. This is wrong, for it fails to recognize that, in the final analysis, it is the individual that chooses and is responsible. (3) They sometimes blame the devil for their weaknesses and immoral acts, failing to realize that, while the devil can lead, it is only they who can decide to follow. All in all, it can be said that if the intrinsic relationship between freedom and responsibility were more thoroughly understood, the world would be a better place in which to live. There are obligations involved in every privilege we accept, whether we like it ornot. The free agency with which we are endowed may be either an opportunity or a liability depending on how responsible we are in the use of it. Actually, there are no rights without responsibilities, and those who try to live as if there were will find themselves held doubly responsible when the final score is added up. A Moral Law For the Universe There is a moral order in the universe just as real and just as exact as the physical order. Every act has its consequences; morals as well as motors operate by law. God is not capricious, fickle, or erratic. He does not pass judgment on the basis of whim or fancy. But rather God is equable and dependable, dealing with men through law and with justice, though tempered by mercy. St. Paul recognized this basic truth when he said: "Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for 670 whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting" (Galatians 6:7-8.) And this is an immutable law of life, for rewards and punishments must inevitably follow the actions of men as the natural consequences of these actions. Each person works out his own salvation on the solid basis of retribution and compensation. Judgment is largely self-operative. But there are some, many perhaps, who seek to deceive God and man in the hope of getting by and avoiding natural consequences. Man they may deceive, but God never. It is partly because man is so easily deceived by man that some escape with so little suffering in this life, and others are required to endure so much. If mortal life were all there were, then justice would be cheated; but, fortunately, there is an eternity, and the inequalities of the present will some day be ironed out with justice for all. No amount of camouflage will be sufficient in getting one by. God is not mocked. The veneer of conformity, the shell of righteousness, behind which so many hide today, will be of little use when the searchlight of eternity exposes the souls of men as they really ate. And this is at it should be, for it places the responsibility for acts upon the shoulders of those who perform them. It is man's duty to carry this responsibility well, and though he may be called upon to sacrifice and suffer more than his share at times, he can be assured that, in the long tun, things will balance out and he will not be shortchanged. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 Persons Versus Principles Sometimes it proves very difficult to decide whether one's allegiance should be to a person or to a principle. Since man is a "social being" he has responsibility to his fellow men as well as to himself. But his first duty is toward right and truth as he sees it, and if, by the abuse of authority or in some other way, it becomes necessary for him as a free agent to choose between right and friendship or right and obedience, let him choose the right; let him favor the principle rather than the person. There is a vast difference between real leadership and mere headship. The one springs from righteousness and ability exercised in a responsible manner, while the other depends only on position. The irresponsible use of position for personal advantage or vanity is an abuse of freedom and a perversion of the moral law. Authority to be used righteously must be applied modestly and responsibly. Here is what the Lord said on this point: We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile? Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy (Doc. And Cov. 121:39-43). LESSON DEPARTMENT Authority should seldom be used in an arbitrary or dictatorial manner. Both democracy and Christianity cry out against such abuse. Necessity may require a little of the "ordering and forbidding" technique in controlling young children or other immature persons, but when used it should be done sparingly, with love, and only 'as a stopgap or temporary device until self-control is learned. As soon as possible every individual should be made to feel responsible, and outside control should be abandoned in favor of self-control. Discipline is frequently necessary; but the sooner it is transformed into self-discipline the better, for in this way only are freedom, responsibility, and the good life possible. Through free choice man becomes a moral agent responsible for his own acts and capable of reaching upward. Moral Courage But it takes real courage to climb upward in the face of obstacles. It would be easier to follow the line of least resistance, to ignore the future, to dodge responsibility, to blame the devil, et cetera. This, however, is not the way of righteousness nor happiness. The lowest order of action is inactivity, laziness; the next is blind action, ignorance; the next is conforming action, obedience; the next is creative action, initiative; and finally, the last and highest is responsible action, progression. Responsible initiative is made possible by the free agency with which man is endowed, and it is only through using this that man is able to reach forever upward. There is too much whimpering and dodging today; too much 671 cowardice in the field of morals; too little courage. If a thing is right it is our duty to abide by it, regardless of the friends we may lose or the immediate inconveniences we may encounter. Life is eternal, and there is a moral law in nature that provides just compensation for all actions, either now or later. The roads ahead are ours-and we are free to choose which way we will go. But we are responsible for the way we go and in this responsibility lies the basis for moral living. May we live for eternity, not just for today, with vision and courage for what lies ahead. Problems for Thought and Action 1, What does it mean to say that man has free agency? How did he get it? Defend the case of free agency against the philosophy of fatalism which opposes it. How can man be foreordained but not predestined? If special reports on these subjects were assigned a month ago have them given now and discuss the points of view offered. Why does free agency make moral responsibility imperative? Why is the attempt to dodge responsibility immoral? Name and discuss some of the ways people try to dodge responsibility. To what extent should we blame the devil for our weaknesses and mistakes? Discuss. Why does every right carry with it a responsibility? Why may free agency be either an opportunity or a liability? 2. What is the moral law of the universe? What do we mean when we say that judgment is largely self-operative? Are personal consequences involved in every personal act? Are the full consequences of every act realized in this mortal life? Discuss. 3. Why is loyalty to a principle more important than loyalty to a person? What is the difference between leadership and headship? Why is it immoral to be irresponsible in the use of position or authority? Give examples of this and discuss the reference from the Doctrine 672 and Covenants cited in the lesson. Is the arbitrary and dictatorial use of authority ever justified? Discuss, Why is self-control important in the moral life? 4. What is moral courage and why is it important? What are the levels of human action? Why would responsible creative action be impossible without free agency? Why is it necessary for the greatest happiness and the greatest good? What does it mean to live each day for eternity and why is this important? 5. Study the following poem by William C. Clegg and point out its application to the lesson: Know this, that every soul is free, To choose his life and what he'll be; For this eternal truth is given, That God will force no man to heaven. He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love and light; In countless ways be good and kind But never force the human mind. Bring to class a copy of William Ernest Henley's poem "Invictus" and show its relevance to the discussion. If time permits RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1944 look up and use other poems, scriptures, and quotations on the subject. Selected References Choose from the following: Bennion, Mitton. Moral Teachings of the New Testament, PP. 23-29; 83-87. (Out of print, but may be found in most Latter-day Saint communities, in homes or Church Libraries. ) Joun Taytor, The Gospel Kingdom, "Free will, a correct principle," p. 59, "Destiny and will," p. 341. Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, Chap. IV, "Free Agency." Discourses of Brigham Young, Chap. V,  "Free Agency." Joseph Fielding Smith, Gospel Doctrine Chapter V, ?Free Agency,? Joseph Fielding Smith, The Progress of Man, Chap. I, "The Principle of Moral Agency." Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection, Chap. 27, "The Right to Choose." Heber J. Grant, Gospel Standards, "Free Agency Taught in Doctrine and Covenants," p. 39. Free Agency: Doc. And Cov. 101:78; 93:30-32; 121:41; Joshua 24:15; John 8: 31-32; Moses 4:1-4; Alma 29:4-5; 41:3-7; II Nephi 2:111. GOD'S GARDEN Daphne Jemmett Down in a rocky canyon Close by the Blackfoot River, Deep in the heart of the mountains, Is the strangest garden ever. Roses huge, and cabbages Lying side by side, Hewn from out the solid rock, And strewn on the wild hillside. I wonder if some giant Playing with rock-like clay Fashioned the roses and cabbages And then threw them away; Or did God make a garden there And then just let it stay, A monument to gardening? Forever?and a day? the Gift of Gifts Trade B National BIBLES Since 1863... At Your Bookstore M-U-S-I-C We carry large stocks of music suitable for churches, schools and home use, arranged for vocal and instrumental solos, choirs, bands and orchestras. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Write to us for suggestions and material available. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 P. O. Box 958 Bibles are Not PLENTIFUL! Limited stocks of most popular versions and editings are available Price ranges from popular NEW LIBRARY EDITION at $1.98 to NEW ANALYTICAL BIBLE at $11.95 $16.95 and $19.95 Intermediate prices at $3.00 $3.50 $4.00 $5.00 $6.50 $7.50 $10.00 and $12.00 Historical Atlas of the Holy Land $1.00 40 Bible Maps in Color DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street "THE BOOK STORE OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" Salt Lake City 10, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Let us be Thankful FOR DAYS OF BOUNTY Life insurance dollars usually come from surplus earnings when they are at their highest, and are returned to dependent families?or with interest to the original purchasers to cheer their later lives. May we therefore be wise, save part of our current income and invest it in life insurance where it will come back to us when needed most Beneficial Life INSURANCE COMPANY HOME OFFICE?BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT. PRESIDENT 