MRS. LOGAN AND CLARA BARTON.

	The “crime of getting old” is a subject
ably treated by Mrs. John A. Logan in the
New York American, and it relates to the
atrocious treatment America’s Florence
Nightingale is receiving at the hands of
persons totally lacking in patriotism, ap-
preciation of services rendered, and court-
esy.
	Mrs. Logan says:

	This country is now being treated to an exhibi
tion of this spirit of the relentless demand of im

[column 2]
patient ambition to step into an exalted position,
made so by the self-sacrifice and untiring devo-
tion of a woman to the cause of humanity. The
excuse is that she is too old, not that she is too in
firm or in any sense unequal to the duties of the 
position she holds; not that she is not honest; not
that she does not know more about the work than
any other person in the Union; not that she has
not rendered a faithful accounting; not that she is
lacking in experience, beginning the work as she
did in her teens; but some one has decided that she
is too old to continue at the head of a great organ-
ization, notwithstanding the fact that she was its
founder and has made it what it is today in this
country. She has made an immortal name in the
service of her country and humanity, and must
give some one else a chance. The methods must
all be changed.
	A vigorous person of uncertain age must sup-
plant Clara Barton as president of the Red Cross,
a position she has filled for twenty years without
fee or reward, personally directing the work on
the field in more than twenty fields of disaster, in-
cluding those at Mount Vernon, Illinois, in Kan-
sas, in the Johnston and Mississippi River Floods,
at Charleston in the Armenian and Russian fam-
ines, in Cuba, at Galveston, and in other fields.
She exhibited almost superhuman ability, will and
strength in the comprehension of the needs of each
case and also by her endurance and executive
skill.
	Her successor is to be paid a salary out of the
funds of the Red Cross. Business men say they
must manage this organization on business princi-
ples, and yet not one of them could have made the
money which Miss Barton has had for distribution
go as far or do as much good to as many persons
as she has made it. In their efforts to retire her
they have added so many years to her life as to
make her an octogenarian in their ambitious argu-
ments. If the controversy continue a while long-
er, they will, undoubtedly make her a centenarian.
No suggestion is made to provide any kind of a
testimonial for her gratuitous service to humanity
since her girlhood, or to furnish her even a roof
over her head, though many European countries
have decorated her with medals studded with
precious stones Her own country proposes
to turn her out. as General Sherman said, “to
browse around the rest of her days.”
	We are not advised that the persons engaged in
this warfare upon Miss Barton have contributed
anything beyond initiation fee and annual dues
to the support of the Red Cross Society, or have
ever given one single days gratuitous service in
the field or elsewhere in legitimate Red Cross re-
lief work. They have spent their time in warring
on Miss Barton and bringing the society into dis-
repute, failing in their one opportunity, during her
absence last year, to do anything until other pro-
visions had been made in the emergency. No
other instance of any catastrophe that had occurred
since the establishment of the Red Cross in the
country can be found in which Miss Barton did
not respond immediately. Before any other ar-
rangements could be made she was on the ground
with her efficient force, distributing relief to all
sufferers. It remains to be seen whether or not
Congress and the people will entertain memorials;
thus sanctioning this attempt to despoil Clara Bar-
ton of her fair fame and name at the behest of a
disgruntled few.
	Florence Nightingale had no such fate, though
her service was never equal to that of Miss Bar-
ton. Is there not some soul in Congress to rise in
his place and propose a defence of this defenceless
woman, and name a gratuity to her for the rest of
her life that will place her beyond the petty rival-
ries and jealousies of any incorporated body, and
that will give her the well-earned peace and com-
fort she needs? We boast of our generosity and
lead in philanthropic work everywhere. Why ig-
nore the one woman who is the personification of
American generosity and benevolence. and who
commands the respect and confidence of the world
as an American gentlewoman?

	[ED.—Why withold the rose to the liv-
ing, which is more than sumptuous wreaths
to the dead?]


In New York the popular branch of the
Legislature has just passed, without any
opposition, a bill to grant tax-paying women
in all the third class cities of the state the
right to vote upon questions of local tax-
ation. This right is also possessed by the
women in about a dozen of the third class
cities under their special charters.


