R. S. REPORTS.
PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Report of Relief Society conference held
in Escalante, May 29, 1903, commencing at
10 a. m. President Elizabeth DeLong pre-
siding.
	We had with us two visiting sisters from
Salt Lake City, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp from the
General Board and Sister L. D. Alder and
representatives from the different wards.
	Conference opened by the choir singing.
Prayer by Stake President David Cameron.
Continued by singing. Minutes read and
roll called, showing representatives from
seven wards, two being presidents.
	President Elizabeth DeLong gave a short
report of the Stake, had not been able to
visit as she should on account of the hard
winter.
	Counselor Alice Jane Cameron reported
Panguitch Ward.
	Escalante Ward was reported by Nancy
Riddle.
	President Elizabeth DeLong, by request
of the president of Circleville Ward, re-
ported that ward.
	Henriville Ward was reported by its
president, Sarah T. Littlefield.
	Sister Alder spoke at some length, giving
us some very good instructions on mothers'


work and the raising and training of chil-
dren. She bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel and that Joseph Smith was a
true prophet of God.
	Sister Shipp then spoke on the great re-
sponsibilities resting upon us as wives and
mothers of the Latter-day Saints, rights of a
child, responsibility of motherhood, and
having unity love and kindness in the fam-
ily.
	President David Cameron was very
pleased with the good instructions which
we had received. Spoke a short time on
training children and responsibility of par- 
ents.
	Bishop Schow felt to endorse the remarks
that had been made, thought the Relief
Society work of great importance and many
responsibilities were connected with it.
	Minutes read and approved. Conference
adjourned until two p. m. Closed by sing-
ing, and benediction by Bishop A. P. Schow.
	Conference reconvened at two p. m. by
choir singing. Prayer by Brother Thomas
Heeps. Continued by singing.
	Sister Collings gave a report of Kingston
Ward, Miss Wilson reported Hillsdale
branch.
	President Elizabeth DeLong spoke on
Relief Society work and benefits of reading
good books.
	Counselor Alice Jane Cameron spoke on
motherhood and controling our children.
	The General and Stake officers of the Re-
lief Society were presented before the peo-
ple to be sustained, by Secretary Margaret
Haycock.
	Sister Shipp spoke on doing our duty,
effects reading has upon the mind, force of
example, education of mothers, paying
tithing.
	Sister Alder spoke on testimony bearing,
workings of Satan, the world’s opinion of
the “Mormons” and preparing ourselves
for the duties that are before us, and the
great knowledge of the Prophet Joseph.
	Brother Henry Barney felt the impor-
tance of the Relief Society, the great in-
fluence the women of the Latter-day Saints
have over the world and the great work de-
volving upon the members of the Relief
Society.
	Minutes read and approved. 
	President Elizabeth DeLong gave out
a notice that there would be a meeting for
the young people at 7 p. m.
	Closed by singing. Benediction by
Brother Almy Barney.
	Conference reconvened at 7 p. m. with
singing, and prayer offered by Brother
George Wilson. Continued by singing.
	Sister Alder spoke to the young people,
her subject being “Our Creation and Our
Mission to Earth.”
	Sister Shipp spoke on “Marriage and the
Responsibilities of Married Life.”
	President David Cameron spoke on “The
Honor of Young Men.”
	President Elizabeth DeLong thanked the
sisters for their visit and very good instruc-

[Column 2] 
tions and stated that conference would be
adjourned until some future date.
	Minutes read and approved. Closed by
singing. Benediction Bishop A. P. Schow.
			MARGARET HAYCOCK, Sec
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the Uintah Stake held May 9, 1903,
President Sarah Pope presiding.
	Singing, “O, ye mountains high.” Pray-
er by Counselor A. K. Bartlett. Singing,
“Come, Oh Thou King of kings.” Minutes
of forenoon session of previous conference
read and approved.
	President Sarah Pope made a few open
ing remarks.
	Counselor James Hacking thought it a
great mission to be a mother in Israel.
Parents should draw their children to them
by love and kindness, thought the mothers’
work would be a great benefit.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff, from Salt
Lake, felt to endorse the remarks of Presi-
dent Hacking. It is our mission to save
souls, and if we can save our children in
the kingdom of God what a consolation it
will be. We should teach the children to
work and to keep the Word of Wisdom, we
should always have a prayerful heart.
	Meeting adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere de-
sire.” Benediction by Counselor James
Hacking.
	Afternoon session opened by singing and
prayer, as usual.
	The following wards were reported in
good condition: Vernal, Glines, Naples,
Mill ward and Mountain Dell. The statistical
and financial report of the Stake was read
and the general and local authorities were
sustained.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff read a letter of
instruction to the missionaries which she
had just received from the General Board.
Thought if we would send missionaries to
the different branches we would be very
much benefitted. Advised the sisters to gath-
er all the grain they could and keep it on
hand. Read the minutes of the organization
of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, also instructions given at the 6th,
13th, and 16th meetings. Thought we
should not burden one sister with all the
offices but divide them up. Asked the
Lord to bless all.
	Brother Nelson Merkley felt to endorse,
what had been said. Thousands of souls
have been made happy by the sisters of the
Relief Society, was glad that we had moth-
ers’ work in the society.
	Brother Don B. Colton thought the in-
struction that had been read was enough
of itself to fully pay us for coming to meet-
ing. Spoke of the sisters administering to
the sick and of the great mission mothers
could perform among the young people.
	Counselor A. K. Bartlett said a few
words in regard to our Church school, felt
willing to labor wherever she was called
urged the sisters to lay up grain.

[Column 3]
	President Sarah Pope made a few closing
remarks encouraged all to treasure the good
counsel they had received, bore a faithful
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel,
said a few words in regard to the Womans’
Building in Salt Lake City.
	Conference adjourned for six months 
Singing, “Praise ye the Lord. Benediction
by Brother Colton.
