WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REUNION THIRTEENTH WARD R. S.
	Relief Society of the Thirteenth
Ward in this city, on Thursday, May 28,
1903, held a reunion and banquet of the
former officers and those who had been
recently appointed at a ward conference
held Sunday evening, May 17. The new
officers are Amy A. Thomas, president,
Agnes Anderson and Emily Neibaur, coun-
selors; Florence Grant, secretary and treas-
urer. These officers with their corps of
teachers and members gave the entertain-
ment as a sort of testimonial of respect and
esteem to those who had labored so long and
faithfully in the Relief Society of the ward
—notably the late president, Rachel R.
Grant, who was appointed by Bishop Ed-
win D. Woolley, April 18, 1868, and had
served in that capacity over thirty-five
years. Her first counselors were Annie T.
Godbe and Margaret T. Mitchell, Elizabeth
H. Goddard secretary and Annie L. Musser
treasurer. Later Emmeline B. Wells was
chosen assistant secretary. Other changes
were afterwards made, the resignation of
Mrs. Annie T. Godbe necessitating the first
change. Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith was
chosen to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Musser, the
treasurer, after a faithful discharge of her
duties was called away by death, and Mary
W. Musser was selected as her success-
or. Afterwards Mrs. B. W. Smith moved
to the 17th ward and Mrs. Lydia Ann
Wells was made first counselor. Mrs. E.
B. Wells moved to the 18th ward and Miss
Fannie Woolley was chosen assistant secre-
tary. Mrs. Musser moved to the 1st ward
and Relief C. Atwood was chosen to fill her
place as treasurer. Mrs. L. A. Wells moved
to the 18th ward, Mrs. Louisa Spencer was
made first counselor and Mrs. Sophia Long
was chosen to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Relief
C. Atwood moved to Sugar Ward and Mrs.
Mary Grey was made treasurer. Subse-
quently Mrs. E. H. Goddard resigned her
position as secretary on account of failing
health, having served more than a quarter
of a century, and Miss Fannie Woolley was
set apart as secretary. When Miss Woolley
was called to go upon a mission, Mrs. Amy
A. Thomas was made secretary, which po-
sition she filled until the reorganization of
the Society, May 17, 1903.
	During all these changes President Rachel
R. Grant held the position to which she
had been called and set apart in the spring
of 1868, making a long record of good
works and gaining the love and esteem of
all with whom she has associated, including
three Bishops, viz., Edwin D. Woolley,
Millen Atwood and Nelson A. Empey, in
this multiplicity of labor, temporal and
spiritual, she has given perfect satisfaction.
	It may well be said of Sister Grant that
she was true and faithful, economical yet
benevolent and possessed unusual executive
ability; the scripture quotation will justly
apply to her:
	“She stretcheth out her hand to the poor,
yea, she reacheth forth her hand to the
needy.”
	“She openeth her mouth with wisdom
and in her tongue is the law of kindness.”
	Two of the officers called to act in the
society have passed away from this earth,
having finished their work here, Sister
Annie L. Musser and Elizabeth H. God-
dard; the others are still living and were
most of them present at the celebration in
the assembly rooms in the 13th ward.
	Mrs. Amy A. Thomas, the newly elected
president, presided, and on the the stand

[Column 2]
were the general president of the society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, and the presi-
dent of Salt Lake Stake, Sister M. Isabella
Horne, Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde, of
the General Society aud others. Counselors
Sarah Jane Cannon and Clara C. Cannon,
of the Salt Lake Stake, were also present,
and Sister Relief C. Atwood, who like
other former officers was present, and in-
vited to the stand.
	President Amy A. Thomas had prepared
reminiscences of the society which she read;
they were interesting and valuable as his-
torical facts.
	The speakers were Sisters Rachel R.
Grant, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isabella
Horne, Relief C. Atwood, all over eighty
years of age, Lydia Ann and Emmeline B.
Wells, Louisa K. Spencer and Sophia Long
	Bishop N. A. Empey made a few re-
marks and commended in the highest terms
the labors of the society and spoke of his
high regard for Sister Grant and those who
had been laboring so long and asked all
those who had known, the Prophet Joseph
Smith to rise and be counted.
	Elder A M. Musser added a few words
in his most gracious and happy manner.
There were a number of others who would
like to have spoken, but the refreshments
were waiting in the Relief Society hall up
stairs and the meeting adjourned to partake
of the sumptuous repast. The affair was a
perfect success and the sisters may be heart-
ily congratulated on the delightful enter-
tainment.


