WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
VISITING AND HOLDING MEETINGS.
	The presidency of the Relief Society of the
St. George Stake with Miss Eva Cannon of
the Y. L. M. I. A. and Brother A. C.
Woodbury as driver, left St. George to
visit the settlements on the Rio Virgen
River, April 20, 1903.
	We arrived at Leeds at two o’clock and
held meeting with the Relief Society,
Counselor Angel presiding. Here the con-
dition of the ward seems to be at a stand-
still. The policy seems to be to discourage
wine making, as it is such a menace to
the morals of our young people; it is con-
sidered best to cultivate raisin grapes. The
soil here is well adapted, to the Malaga
grapes, which make fine raisins and would
be no injury to the settlement where they
are sold. Wherever wine is sold it is a
curse, and I don’t believe the blessing of
the Lord goes with it. We have been gath-
ered here from the nations of the earth to
serve the Lord and rear our children in
righteousness, and I consider when we
raise anything that demoralizes them, we
are not building up the kingdom of God.
	At the close of the meeting we went on
to Toquerville and held a meeting with the
Reliet Society at 6 o’clock p. m. We had
a good meeting and were nicely entertained
by President R. J. Spilsbury and her
counselors.
	On the 21st we traveled on to Virgen,
where we met with the Primary at ten
o’clock a. m., Sister Stratton presiding.
We had a nice meeting and had dinner at
Sister Stratton’s.
	At two o’clcok we met with the Relief
Society, Sister Sariah Workman presiding.
She wished to resign, and was honorably
released, having been president for twenty-
five years. A vote of thanks was given
her for her faithful labors. Sister Mary
Hinton was chosen to preside with Mary
Beebe and Mary Reeves as counselors.
Sisters Woodbury, Morris and Bleak gave
the sisters good advice and encouraged
them in the good work they were engaged
in.
	Sister Woodbury talked on the benefit of
the silk industry for the little girls to be
taught when they were young and they
would grow up with it. Angus Woodbury
bore his testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel. Eva Cannon advised the young peo-
ple to become acquainted with the prin-
ciples of the Gospel and to live so that their
example would be worthy of imitation.
	We went on to Grafton and held a Relief
Society and Primary meeting combined at
6 p. m., as this is a small settlement. The
sisters urged the people to consider the re-
sponsibility of directing their children, as
they were in their charge, and they would
be held accountable for them until they
were eight years old. We had not come to
teach them anything they did not know,
but to urge them to their duties as mothers
in Israel. Brother Ballard and others en-
couraged us in the work. We spent the
night with Sister Ballard and counselor.
	As we travel up this river we are amazed
at the amount of work that has been done
in dugways and ditches, but the country
now is smiling with verdure.
	The 23rd we went on to Rockville at ten
a.m. and met with the Primary and had
nearly seventy-five children present. Sis-
ter Farnes presided. The people are trying
to do their duty.
	At two p. m. we met with the Relief
Society, Sister Mary Stout presiding. The

[Column 2]
sisters imparted such instructions as they
were moved upon to give and then went
on to Springdale, where they met with the
Primary at six p. m. We had a houseful of
parents as well as children, it is a prolific
country for children.
	This morning (23) a flood came down
this fork of the river, it was quite a [-]ight
to see a flood come without a cloud in the
sky; the day before had been warm, and I
presume the snow had been melting. A
couple of men and boys caught some of the
w[-]od as it passed. Here the air is delight-
ful. This is as far as the settlements go.
	There is a stretch of country above called
Zion, to which their is no outlet. It is a
romantic place, the scenery is magnific-
ent. They have a wire tramway partly
built, they run staves down it to make bar-
rels, and if they ever get a sawmill on top
of the big tract of country that is covered
with timber, they can run the lumber
down, and save hundreds of miles of travel.
They have cut steps in the hillside where
they drive their cattle up. It would aston-
ish you to see them go up. We met with
the Relief Society and had a houseful of
men, women and children. Bishop Gifford
met with us in both our meetings. We
have a very good people here, they will not
sell their hay, if they have surplus, until
their brethren are sure of enough to get
their crops in. We partook of President
Rusch’s hospitality, and at one o’clock p.
m. we started for Toquerville, where we
held Primary meeting at 6 p. m., President
Adelaide Savage presiding. We had a very
enjoyable time and met with a nice lot of
children here. We were entertained by
President Spilsbury and her counselor.
	On the 24th we went on to Leeds and at
ten a. m. met with the Primary, Counselor
Stirling presiding. The good qualities of
the EXPONENT were spoken of and sub-
scribers sought. President S. Harris enter-
tained us at dinner.
	We then went to Harrisburg and held a
Primary meeting at three p. m , President
Mary Laney presiding.
	We arrived at St. George at 6:30 o’clock,
having been away five days and held
twelve meetings. We had an enjoyable
time and trust the people we have met
have been stirred up to their duties.
