EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	There are fifty Stakes to be visited annu-
ally by officers of the Relief Society or mis-
sionaries officially appointed. So far in 
this year the conferences that have been 
visited are Granite Stake, Uintah, Pan-
guitch, Nebo, Box Elder, San Luis, Emery 
Oneida, Salt Lake, Pocatello, Malad, Sevier, 
North Sanpete, South Sanpete, Cassia,
and Benson.
	The sisters who have visited are Presi-
dent B. W. Smith, Counselors Annie Taylor
Hyde, Ida Smoot Dusenberry; Elizabeth
Williams, Carrie S. Thomas, Rebecca E.
Little, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Mary T.
Smith, Alice S. M. Horne, Phebe Y. Beatie,
Margaret A. Caine, Ellis R. Shipp, L. L.
Greene Richards, Lydia D. Alder. Only
sixteen Stakes so far and leaves thirty-four
more to be visited during the remaining
four months of the season.


The mothers’ work is beginning to be a
delight and pleasure in the several
Stakes and wards where it has been
properly understood. Women of intelli-
gence and ability have been invited to give
the lecture, and others to assist in discuss-
ing, commenting, or explaining so that
more benefit may be derived from the in-
formation contained than would be if not
discussed afterwards. In some places the
president gives the lecture out in parts to
more than one sister, for instance the sub-
ject is given to the principal person to
prepare a lecture, (a) to another sister (b)
to another (c) to another. This is all left
to the discretion of the president of the
society who is expected to take entire
charge of the meeting. It is well to have
the lecture advertised well through the
ward beforehand and all the women in
the ward young and aged invited.
	We have several articles left over for the
July number that will be of interest to our
readers. The Relief Society Reunion of
Jordan Stake, which was a most enjoyable
gathering, including the banquet and in-
deed all the exercises, one essay will be
published in full. The Old Ladies’ Party,
given by Mrs. Frank J. Cannon, of Ogden,
the annual meeting of the Daughters of the
Revolution, and the meeting of the Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers at the Bee Hive in May
and June 24. We also have for publica-
tion minutes of Relief Society confer-
ences from one or two Stakes in Zion and
 plan of lectures from Alberta Stake for
mothers’ work, Brigham Young’s birthday
celebration, Mrs. Jennings Temple sisters’
party, the graduating exercises and recep-
tion of the nurses’ class under Dr. Margar-
et C. Roberts and Emma Empey.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.
(Continued.)
	When the Latter-day Saints were obliged
to leave the City of Nauvoo and journey
Westward to an unknown land, the society
could not operate as an organized body and
the meetings were necessarily discontinued,
though the sisters continued their benevo-
lent work whenever and wherever an op-
portunity presented itself, and many were
in need of kindly acts and works of charity
and sympathy, for those were the days of
toil and suffering, of scarcity and hardship.
There were few gifts to bestow, but many
lessons of patience and resignation to be
learned in the school of experience.
	Early in the settlement of these valleys
in the Rocky Mountain region, organizations
were formed, a natural outgrowth or con-
tinuation of the parent organization in Nau-
voo, for the same spirit and sentiment still
existed and was soon brought into active
exercise. During all this time the sisters
never lost sight of this institution as it had
been established, nor the promises made to
them of its future greatness, by the Proph-
et Joseph Smith
	Among the foremost heroines of that
eventful time should be indelibly engraven
on the minds of the women of today and
coming time, the names of Sisters Vilate
Kimball, Mary Ann Young, Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, Mary Fielding Smith, Diantha
Billings and others now passed away.
	These noble mothers in Israel with

[Column 2]
kindly deeds and loving words inspired
many a fainting heart with faith and cour-
age and ministered temporal and spiritual
blessings to hundreds of the daughters of
Zion, whose paths were not strewn with
roses, but were full of thorns and fiery
trials and needed their encouragement.
	Early in the settlement of the valley in
1851 and in 1852 the sisters had temporary
organizations of the Relief Society in
several wards and surrounding places, and
although all the Saints were comparativeiy
poor, yet they helped those in greater need
and fed and clothed the wandering Indians
whom the Latter-day Saints have ever thus
tried to conciliate. The writer very well
remembers a Relief Society of this tempor-
ary kind in the 12th and 13th wards of the
city, where she had the opportunity of at-
tending working meetings for sewing, quilt-
ing, etc., when a very young woman with
two babies.
	In 1855, when in a more settled condi-
tion, President Young called upon the Bish-
ops to organize a Relief Society in each ward
and gave Sister Eliza R. Snow a mission to
assist them in organizing, and to take with
her Sister Zina D. Young as her counselor.
Of some of these branches, as far as we
know, there is no record, but Bishop Abra-
ham Hoagland, of the 14th ward in this
city, organized a Relief Society, September
17, 1856, and appointed Sister Phebe W.
Woodruff president, and she chose for her
counselors Sister Mary Isabella Horne and
Lucinda Southworth, Kezia D. Pratt secre-
tary and Agnes Hoagland treasurer. There
were also committees appointed at the time.
Visiting committee: Leonora Taylor, Grace
Richardson, Ellen Parker, Rhoda H. Rich-
a[-]ds, Elizebeth Pixton, Matilda Wards-
worth, Nancy A. Stevenson, Lucinda
Southworth, Agnes Hoagland.
	Appraising committee were the president
and her counselors
	Superintendents of work committee:
Lucy L. Van Cott, Sarah B. Farr, Agnes
Hoagland.
	There were enrolled 108 members includ-
ing the officers, all of whose names are in
the possession of the writer. They formu-
lated the following by-laws:
	1. The name of the society shall be the
Fourteenth Ward, (Female now obsolete)
Relief Society.
	2. It shall be controled by a president,
two counselors, a secretary and treasurer
chosen by the members who shall choose
such officers as may be deemed necessary.
	3. The object shall be the relief of the
destitute unemployed and all whom it may
have power to relieve or do good unto in
unison with the counsel of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	4. Those wishing to become members
may be admitted on the recommend of any
member by a vote of any meeting regularly
called.
	5. Members will be expelled from the
society for non Christian like conduct, by a
majority of votes of any regularly organized
meeting.
	6. These by-laws may be increased,
amended, annulled or added to at any time
considered necessary by a majority of the
members.
FIRST REPORT.
	Organized 17th day of September, 1856.
Commenced and carried on our operations
in a time of scarcity and under trying cir-


cumstances until the 28th day of March,
1858, about one year and six months, dur-
ing which time we have received from mem-
bers of the society in contributions of mon-
ey, wearing apparel, provisions, etc.,
amounting to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	$346.05
Quilts on hand and for sale. . . . . .	100.00
Overplus for work and property. .	101.12
					Total	$547.17
Paid out to poor in the ward . . . .	$213.77
Paid to our brethren of the army .	43.75
“	“	H. C. Company . . . .	63.65
“	“	P. O.  Fund . . . . . . .	6.00
“	“	Quilts to Temple . . .	100.00

		Total disbursements	$547.17

	Just about the same time Bishop N. V.
Jones organized a Relief Society in the 15th
ward and chose Sister Lydia Granger presi-
dent; and Bishop Seth Taft also organ-
ized on in the 9th ward and appointed
Sister Harriet Taft president, etc. Other
societies were also organized, one in the 8th
ward by Bishop Lorenzo D. Young of which
Sister Zina D. Young was treasurer; but
Johnston’s army coming here and the move
South, as a direct result of it occurred in
1858, which interrupted the regularity of the
work of the society wherever it had begun,
and it was not until after the return of the
people to their homes and when order was
again restored that the society was more
perfectly and permanently organized.
	It would be interesting to give many of
the incidents of those early days, what the
sisters did to raise means and even to do
plain sewing and quilting, old cotton stock-
ing legs were raveled to get the yarn to
sew with, also knitted and crocheted lace,
and very small bits of calico were used to 
make quilts. Later on in the sixties Sister
Eliza R. Snow, Sister Zina D. H. Young
and others began visiting through the coun-
try places to help organize and show the
inexperienced sisters how to conduct their
meetings.


