BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	The anniversary of the birthday of Sister
Maria W. Richards Wilcox was celebrated
on June 17, by the Relief Society of the
14th ward in this city of which she is presi-
dent. Sister Wilcox is also corresponding
secretary of the Relief Society of the Salt
Lake Stake having been appointed to that
office when the board was organized in
1877. Sister Wilcox has also been one of
the constant workers in Salt Lake Temple
since it was opened in May, 1893. She has
filled all these places with diligence and
faithfulness, and with honor and credit to
herself and those associated with these or-
ganizations, Her life has been one of use-
fulness, she has a large family of her own
who rise up and call her blessed.
	The party was held in the Relief Society
hall of the ward and was a very enjoyable
affair Counselor Margaret Y. Taylor pre-
sided and the teachers and committee as-
sisted in making it a success in every re-
spect; the decorations which were mostly
of lovely June roses, were very prettily
arranged and the hall was a picture in it-
self, one large bowl containing seventy-six
beautiful roses, one for each year.
	There was music, instrumental and vocal,
and some short speeches. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith made a brief address and
remarks were made by Sisters Lucy W.
Kimball, Minerva E. Richards, Mary P.
Richards, E. B. Wells and some others, all
of whom expressed love and admiration for
Sister Wilcox and a desire that she might
live to continue her labors for many years
to come.
	Sister Wilcox responded in a very happy
manner to the congratulations of her num-
erous friends.
	There were of her family Dr. C. F. Wil-
cox and wife, Dr. Edwin Wilcox and wife,
and Frank Wilcox and wife, also two


daughters, Ella W. Hyde and Mrs. Asper.
Delicious refreshments were served to the
many guests and delightful conversation
and interchange of greetings and good
wishes. During the exercises a handsome
easy chair and cushion were presented to
the honored president by the members of
the Relief Society.
	The EXPONENT adds its hearty congratu-
lations to Sister Wilcox, who is one of its
staunch supporters and hopes that the re-
maining years of her long and useful life
may be full of joy, love and happiness.


