A HAPPY GATHERING.
	The Author’s Club gave a reception at
the close of the year (to usher in the sum-
mer vacation presumably) to about one
hundred guests. The “Little” mansion,
the family residence of Major Feramorz
Little and family, and during a period of
years the scene of many festive occasions,
was made very attractive on that Monday
evening, June 8; colored lights outside in
the shrubbery gave the place an inviting
appearance, and inside a band of music in
the spacious hall discoursed sweet strains of
favorite melodies; flags and bunting were
artistically draped in the entrance and over
the stairway and the parlors were not lack-
ing in elegant furnishings nor in paintings
of rare value and other tasteful ornamenta-
tion, and the fragrance and beauty of
roses and sweet flowers made the whole
“house beautiful,” There was dancing in
one of the parlors in which many of the
ladies and gentlemen participated, and
seemingly it was a delightful pastime.
Bishop Empey whom we remember as a
notable “caller” in years gone by, gave his
assistance, his voice ringing out fresh and
clear. The guests flitted from room to room,
many of them talking over old times,
and the hostess, Mrs. Little, and the presi-
dent, Mrs. Roberts, and the young ladies
who served the fruit punch in the most
genial way, made every one happy and for-
getful of care and anxiety.
	In the course of the evening the facetious
B. S. Young gave some of his famous reci-
tations and Miss Babcock, who is a cele-
brity in that respect, also rendered humor-
ous pieces.
	There were present Elder B. H. Roberts,
Bishop O. F. Whitney, Major R. W.
Young, President Joseph T. Kingsbury, of
the University of Utah, Prof. W. Stewart
and wife, Prof. Merrill and wife, Judge S.
Stewart and wife, Attorney Stewart and
wife, Hon. W. W. Riter, Regent of the
University of Utah, Prof. Byron Cummings
and other notable people.
	It was perhaps the most enjoyable affair
of the kind there has ever been since the
organization of the Author’s Club. There
has been a reelection of officers and Mrs.
Eliza Bennion, of Taylorsville, is president
for the ensuing year.


