INTERNATIONAL PRESS WOMEN. 
	The International Press Women’s Union
held its annual banquet in the banquet hall 
of the Ebbitt House, Washington, D. C., 
May 26, 1903.
	“During the serving of the menu, from 
9 o’clock until midnight the ladies held 
sway, and there was an almost continuous 
flow of roasts and toasts and witty disserta-
tions on various subjects of special interest 
to the women, which served to keep the


merriment at a high pitch throughout the
evening. More than a hundred pen women
and their guests participated in the feast of
food and fun. The speech making was
confined entirely to the feminine sex, the
seven or eight men present being silent
spectators of the proceedings. Among the
guests were many ladies well known
throughout the country for their achieve-
ments in the realm of art and letters, each
of whom contributed a speech, a poem or a
toast to the characteristic program.
	Preceding the banquet the guests were
received in the red parlors by Mrs. Mary S.
Lockwood and Mrs. Ellen S. Cromwell,
and a social hour was spent in the ex-
change of greetings
	“The supper table was in the form of a
horseshoe, and within the curve were nu-
merous palms and tropical plants, while the
the tables were decorated in pink peonies, roses
and carnations. Mrs. Mary S. Lockwood,
president of the International Press Union,
occupied a seat in the center of the outer
curve and presided over the proceedings of
the evening.
	“The address of welcome was made by
Mrs. Lockwood, who refered to the signifi-
cance of the occasion, and told several
amusing stories relating to unnamed mem-
bers of the organization. Her welcome was
responded to in seven different languages
by Miss Frances Graham French, president
of the Woman’s National Press Association,
who spoke for each of the nations in which
the International Press Union has affilia-
tions. Mrs Hannah B. Sperry, president of
the District Federation of Woman’s Clubs,
spoke for the absent members of the union.”
	The business meeting was held on the
following day and Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
has been officially notified by letter from
the secretary of the International Press
Union, Mrs. Mary M. North, of her unan-
imous re-election one of the vice-presidents
for the ensuing term of two years. Mrs.
Wells was elected one of the vice-presidents
at the annual meeting held in Washington
in 1901, at the Riggs House, where she was
present and also Mrs. Susa Young Gates.
	It is a noticable feature of the Union, and
in fact its main object is to become ac-
quainted, by correspondence and otherwise,
with pen-women of other countries, authors,
poets, etc. The letters from foreign lands
are always an interesting part of the pro-
gram of the meetings.


