LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
	Meeting held Saturday, May 9, 1903, in 
the 14th Ward Hall, Counselor E. J. 
Stevenson in the chair. Minutes read and 
approved. Singing. Prayer by Counselor 
Elizabeth Webb. Sister Stevenson made 
opening remarks to mothers concerning the 
sacredness of the sacrament, exhorting the
sisters to teach their children what it meant 
and the spirit and manner in which to par- 
take of this, the Lord's supper; she also re- 
ferred to the kind reception of President 
Jos. F. Smith, while absent on his visit to 
St. Louis and Kansas City. 
	Congregation joined in singing a hymn. 
	President M. Isabella Horne then ad- 
dressed the sisters in her tender, motherly 
way. Advised all the wards in the Stake 
to hold peace meetings on Monday, May 18. 
She then referred to the time when Presi- 
dent Brigham Young organized the Re-
trenchment Association for the good of the 
people; alluded to the past years in Zion, 
how dry and desolate the country was, 
and how the people were tried with poverty,
related how the crickets came down and de- 
stroyed the crops, and the sea gulls came in 
flocks and devoured the crickets; the people 
were happy, after all, and trusted in the 
Lord, and they were blest, she often won-
dered if this people appreciate the blessings 
we enjoy. Sister Horne said she believed 
the winding up scene to be near at hand, 
the people are being warned and should 
prepare for the changes that are to come; 
urged all to be faithful. She testified that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God and 
spoke of the great instructions he had given 
to the people. 
	Sister Sarah Phelps thought much de- 
pended upon the women of Zion, they 
should not follow the fashions of the world, 
but take care of their strength and give it 
to reading the scriptures and note the ful- 
fillment of prophecy. 
	Sister Elizabeth Paul advised the sisters 
to visit the sick and afflicted, comfort and 
bless them, in this work she had great joy. 
	Sister Julia C. Howe, said we should set 
good examples before our children, we 
should uphold and venerate our leading 
men and women, advised all to seek wis-
dom and never speak against the Lord’s
anointed.
Sisters Jacobs, Morris, Reed and Gard-
ner bore faithful testimonies, and gave ex- 
cellent advice to mothers. 
	Sister Morris sang that beautiful hymn, 
"O, Jesus the Giver."
	Sister Henrietta Smith spoke upon the 
work for the dead in the Temples of the
Lord,thought we should go forth in love to 
do this work. 
	Meeting adjourned, singing, Doxology.
Benediction Sister M. W. Wilcox. 
