SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1903


[Column 1]
THE NEW VOLUME THIRTY-TWO.
	June has come again and with its advent
many things transpire and many anniver-
saries are celebrated and also very many
weddings. It has been said, and we are
inclined to believe it is true, that there have
been more marriages solemnized this June,
1903, than ever before in any preceding
month of June. At any rate June is to
most people the favorite month of all the
months.
	Salt Lake City, the Mecca of the West,
puts on its best and most becoming attire
in June, roses in the hedges, roses by the
wayside, roses on the hill tops, in the gard-
en, on the lawns, wherever you turn,
are roses, roses for the sick and poor, in the
hospitals, the sickrooms and even the dead
are literally buried in roses.
	It was in the beautiful month of June
that our dear little paper, the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, came into existence, and every
June since has added a year to its age. Now
it commences its thirty-second volume. In
that time much has been accomplished,
great changes have taken place in various
parts of the world; certainly progress has
been made along many lines of thought and
action in our own and other lands.
	The cause of woman has grown wider,
larger and stronger since that first issue of
the paper in June 1872. Development on a
large scale has manifested itself and the
EXPONENT has been helpful in its advance-
ment of breadth and culture. Especially
has this been so in the establishment and
extension of the Relief Society, the greatest
organization of women in all the world. In
its pages from first to last the history of this
society is given, much of it in detail.
	The biographies of the greatest women
in the Church are recorded in its columns;
and short stories, (true ones) poems and
essays, written by the sisters young and
old, express with more or less exactness the
sentiment and feeling pervading the home
life of the women of the Church, also rem-
iniscences and experiences of the early days
of the Latter-day Saints.
	It cannot be amiss to say that this little
paper has been a household help that it has
come into the home with words of good
cheer, with the spirit of peace, bringing
encouragement to the weary, stimulating
the faith of the weak and urging them to
the performance of everyday duties.
	The EXPONENT has been a messenger of
the Gospel to those afar off, telling the
wondrous truths of salvation in simple lan-
guage, easily understood, explaining wom-
an’s work in the home, with the children,

[Column 2]
teaching lessons of love and devotion, vir-
tue and goodness in simplicity with earnest-
ness and sincerity, that cannot fail to reach
the hearts of those who peruse its pages
from time to time
	The EXPONENT has always been kept
free from details of sin and crime. It has
striven for a higher plane of thought and
purity of purpose.
	It is greatly to be desired by those inter-
ested in the best welfare of the work of the
Relief Society that those who are engaged
in promoting its interests will try to in-
crease the circulation of the EXPONENT in
order that it may be more independent and
self-supporting, and that its outward appear-
ance may be materially improved. All
these things require money and the sisters[-]
if they realize the importance of a paper of
their own, which stands for the best ideals
and principles, should be anxious to have a
magazine which they would be proud to
send out to the people as an evidence of
good taste and business ability, filled with
truth and messages of love and good will
and enlightenment to women of the world.
	May the year be a prosperous one, sub-
scriptions so increase that there will be no
occassion to plead for better support for the
paper that stands for the women of Zion,
proclaiming truth and righteousness and
every principle that tends to a higher and
better life in the home, the State and the
nation and especially in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
ANNA SEARS WELLS.
"Think not alone of what the Lord has taken,
Thou, whom His love hath of some joy bereft,
But in the moments thou art most forsaken,
Think what His love hath left.”
	It is difficult to write consolingly of one
taken from the home where husband and
children are left mourning, and, as it were,
desolate, seemingly bereft of the light and
beauty of the home life. Yet submission
to the divine will is the only condition in
which we can find peace. “The Lord gave
and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be
the name of the Lord.” To try and real-
ize this in its true sense is the highest at-
titude man or woman can reach in the deep-
est affliction that can come. To be
passive and invoke the Spirit of the Lord,
the Comforter, is to attain a state of tran-
quility that will bring “the peace that
passeth understanding,” to the human soul
in the hour of deepest sorrow. We in our
human weakness cannot know how the
Lord works out His will with men and
women here in this earthly probation. We
can only trust in Him “who doeth all
things well.”
	The Palmist says, “Wait on the Lord; be
of good courage, and He shall strengthen
thine heart; wait, I say, on the Lord.”
"Leaning on Him make with reverent meekness
His own thy will,
And with strength from Him shall thy weakness
Life’s task fulfill.”
	Whatever the Father demands of us, He
will give us the strength and the courage
to bear, if we trust wholly in Him, and lis-
ten to the still small voice within us and
commune with the Lord in prayer; and
though the way seems dark, light will
come, the light of His countenance through
faith in His loving and tender care.
"She is not dead but sleepeth.”

[Column 2]
	A wife and mother has gone from the
sight of those who loved her dearer than
life itself, but the blessed hope of meeting
her again is strong in the hearts of all
whose human love was precious, and how
much greater will it become in reaching up
to the celestial heights to which she has at-
tained. Only a little while and a reunion
will take place where there is no more part-
ing or sorrow forevermore. And trusting
in this hope of a glorious resurrection
hereafter, they will take up the life work
and go forward, with sublime faith in the
eternal covenants that unite husband and
wife, children and parents with ties that
can never be broken, that will endure for-
ever.
BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Anna Sears Wells, wife of Joseph S.
Wells, who departed this life on the morn-
ing of June 1, 1903, after a brief but severe
illness, was born in Caldicott, England,
December 22, 1863, and was the daughter
of the late John Sears and his wife, Sarah
Wagstaff Sears While Anna was a babe,
in the year 1864, Brother and Sister Sears
left their home in England and gathered to
Zion, coming here in September of that
year. Anna grew to womanhood in the
Spirit of the Gospel, always attentive to re-
ligious duties and devoted to her home and
parents.
	As a child she was industrious and fond
of household occupations; she made several
quilts when quite young, quilting and put-
ting them together in a variety of patterns.
Some of these given to members of the fam-
ily are still kept as heirlooms.
	She was married to Joseph S. Wells in
the Logan Temple. March 14, 1888, Presi-
dent Daniel H. Wells, father of the bride-
groom, performing the ceremony which
united them for time and all eternity.
	Sister Anna Wells was a devoted wife
and home-maker. Her home was her
heaven and a haven of rest and peace to her
husband and little ones. She has left be-
hind five beautiful children to the care and
protection of a husband she loved with an
undying affection.
	Alice, the eldest, is now in her fourteenth
year, and gives fair promise of every
womanly grace and attribute to gladden
the home life of her father and the younger
children. Herman Joseph, the eldest son,
is a thoughtful boy eleven years of age.
Byron Sears, nine years old, Richard Harris
is seven, and baby Geneva is four years old.
	One can scarcely imagine a young mother
full of maternal love, with these sacred ties
binding her to an earthly home, with a de-
voted and loving husband, actually desiring
to be liberated from earth; and yet it is true
of this young woman. She had seen the
world beyond in vision during her moments
of agonizing pain; she had seen the glory
of the infinite and she told her husband
solemnly she must go, and requested him
to dedicate her to the Lord. It must have
taken almost superhuman courage to com-
ply with such a request, yet it was done as
she had urged, and soon after the sad part-
ing came, and her beautiful spirit took its
flight “to the morning-lit land.”
	Sister Anna Wells was literally buried in
flowers, and she has entered now the holy
city, and those, who are left behind toil on
through storms and darkness until
“He brings them home to rest,
With the victors crowned and blest.”


