CERTIFIED FAC SIMILES BEING PREPARED.

	Washington, D. C.—The most precious
original document in the world today is the
American Declaration of Independence.
This sacred piece of paper represents the
sentiment and spirit that have characterized
the beginning and progress of this wonder-
ful Government. Besides being the great-
est statement of political rights ever penned,
it shines out as a literary gem without a
parallel, considered from any point of ex-
cellence.
	It is a great misfortune to the nation that
the original Declaration of Independence
has been fast fading of recent years.
Though it has been locked in the steel
vaults at the State Department in Washing-
ton, away from the light, for a long time,
the fading continued until now hardly any
of the writing can be read.
	Fortunately a number of years ago when
the fading first commenced, the Govern-
ment prepared an exact fac simile of the
original. This reproduction is still in the
possession of the Government. Thousands
visit the State Department every year to
see it. The Original Declaration is never
exhibited.
	A number of fac similes are now being
prepared, with the view of having at least
one placed in every county of the different
States and Territories. Hereafter, then, it
will not be necessary to journey to Wash-
ington to see the State Departments fac
simile. Every community will have a copy
just like it.


The artists are now at work on the re-
quired number. Each specimen is to show
at the bottom the official certificate of the
State Department under seal, with the sig-
nature of Secretary of State John Hay, at-
cesting that it is an exact fac simile of the
Original Declaration of Independence.
Every specimen will be numbered, and
registered in the name of the person to
whom it is sent. 
	The document measures about 30 inches
long and 22 inches wide. The fac simile 
is surrounded by a border composed of the 
coats of arms of the original States and 
both sides of the great seal of the United
States, all exquisitely done in about eleven
colors.
	The work of the artists on these handsome
specimens is past criticism. As mere pic-
tures they will be highly esteemed and in a
few years will no doubt be considered very
valuable. But their chief value lies in the
fact that the fac simile portion will be an
exact counterpart of the grand document in
which our sturdy ancestors boldly pro-
claimed to the world the rights of man, and
to the upholding of those principles pledged
their lives, their fortunes, and sacred honor.
							Ex.


