[Vol8 | June 1921 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Vital Questions]
EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - ~ Susa Younc Gares Business Manager - - - - - - JeanetTE A. HypE Assistant Manager - - - - Amy Brown LyMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VIII. ' ~ JUNE, 1921. 

VITAL QUESTIONS
The day of younger women with their eager enthusiasms, zest of conquest, and boundless vision opens wide its doors into Relief Society activities. The example set in the reorganization of our General Officers and Board in the choosing of so many young matrons will no doubt be followed by the stake and ward authorities. This is perhaps, just as it should be. I see this army with banners marching into the field so long occupied, almost exclusively, by the mothers and grandmothers; and as they file past my vision, I am moved to ask these blessed adventurers some questions: Are you strict observers of the Word of Wisdom? Do you play cards? Do you wear your clothing with that sacred modesty taught in the temple of the living God? Do you give countenance, by word or by example, to the deadly evil of so-called birthcontrol, or limitation of offspring? These are crucial tests in this wicked day and age, and unless our lovely and beloved daughters can meet the test fairly and triumphantly they are not yet ready to bear upon their shoulders the symbolic emblems of
EDITORIAL: 371
spiritual service so long and faithfully worn by the mothers of the passing generation. Writers are focusing attention on our "wasted generation." Immodesty of dress is decried in every decent corner of the land today. While great organizations, east and west, are devoted solely to the correction of these evils which we know are corrupting both the individual and social life. These tests should be applied to both members and officers of this and all other auxiliaries. Our youthful soldiers of the cross, now coming into public service, however, must now assume the direct burden of correcting these evils, and thus they may strengthen the morals of the community, What Then of the Woman Grown Grey in Service? Not least of Present day Relief Society Problems is the kindly taking thought for those older women who are now and Not in this Church and kingdom. There are still gospel principles to study, sad homes to visit, Meetings everywhere to attend. But above and beyond all, the temples open wide their Portals for all who care to enter therein. No educational nor Marriages? What do you know about Marriage for time and eternity? What are your objections to temple marriages? And
