Mothers in Israel. Autobiographical Sketch of M. A. S. Winters. (Continued from August Number.) IN KIRTLAND. The first days of April had now come, the spring annual conference was near at hand, and the Saints, making great preparations, were anticipating a joyous time at the meetings, to meet and entertain. And with the 6th of April would come my fourth birthday. I could faintly remember one other birthday, but now it seemed so far away, and this one so near by that I, too, was all expectancy for the events to transpire. My mother was making me a very pretty French lawn dress that she had bought in Boston on our journey to Ohio. The spring time had now come, and I could have it to wear, and my heart was filled with pleasure for the time being. I think I watched nearly every stitch that she put in it (no sewing machines then). I mention this dress in particular as it figured in another more important event to me, not far distant from my birthday. I was in excellent health at this time, and attended all the conference meetings with my mother. There was a great time of rejoicing among the Saints, and I partook of the glorious spirit poured out upon them in great abundance. How could it be otherwise? This was the seventh anniversary of the organization of the Church. The Saints had gathered — had built a temple, a House of the Lord — and He had accepted it at their hands — and now they had met to worship Him, and to receive instructions in spirit and in truth. My mother had listened to the voice of the Good Shepherd, had obeyed the gospel — and brought me into the fold — had gathered to Zion. I believed what I heard of the gospel with all the soul of an innocent child. I had received my childhood's blessing into the Church, in the temple, under the hands of the Patriarch Joseph Smith, Sr., and I felt a new light. A new intelligence had entered my soul from that time, and right here I want to bear testimony that the power 
 and influence of that blessing has followed me through all the days of my life on the earth, since that time. My memory was quickened — it has helped to keep me faithful, for never in my life have I doubted the truth of the gospel, or that Joseph Smith is a true Prophet of the living God, or that he received a visit from the Father and the Son and I do know that God lives, for; He has answered my prayers many times, while yet I have been bowed before Him. No soul but myself knew of the circumstances that called forth the answer. And I do verily know the Spirit lives after the body is laid in the tomb, for I have, at two different times and at far distant periods, beheld with my open eyes two disembodied spirits and at other times, have heard the; voices of departed friends, and the things they communicated to me came true to the very letter, in proof of the truth of their communications and their continued existence after death, for they verily came to pass. I have never yet claimed to be a Latter-day Saint, but I am a "Mormon" every fiber of my being, both physical and spiritual, and I am trying to live to that end— that sometime in the great hereafter, the former name may be truthfully attached to my being, and I can bask in the fulness of its glories, according to my station and mission in my Father's Kingdom. MARY ANN STEARNS WINTERS. MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 485 But to return to my little narrative. Soon after conference, a kind friend took me in her arms and told me I was going to have a new papa, and also a little brother. The sound of these words had quite an attraction for me though I could not understand the full purport of them, but when Elder Parley P. Pratt called at our house and talked with my mother, I began to ask questions and then mother answered me quite freely, and told me we were going to New York, and then we could go from there and visit my grandparents and relations in Maine — and all this seemed very natural and right, so my mental consent was freely given. A spirit of peace filled my soul, and not one ray of jealousy or dissent entered my heart to give me sorrow or mar my peace of mind. There were some preparations to make, and this I entered into with all the interest of my years. My mother had also bought for herself a lawn dress like the one she had made for me, and now this was to be made (and would be very suitable for the occasion), and with the help of a sister was soon very satisfactorily accomplished. The marriage was to take place at the home of Brother Smith, one of the Prophet's relatives. My mother and Elder Pratt were attended by Elder John Goodson and Miss Apphia Woodman — one of the young ladies that journeyed with us to Kirtland. Accordingly, four chairs were placed in the center of the room, and I was lifted into my little high chair and sat at the side of Miss Woodman, and the ceremony was performed May 9, 1837, by Frederick G. Williams, in the presence of the family of the house, and a few other invited friends. My mother became the wife of Apostle Parley P. Pratt, and I was grafted into that family and was called by that name for a number of years. In a few days we moved to the home of Brother Pratt, and five or six weeks later started on the journey to New York. On the way we stopped at Holliston, Massachusetts, at the home of Brother Albert P. Rockwood. Here we stayed about six weeks. There were quite a number baptized into the Church, and my mother formed a friendship with Sister Rockwood and her sister Elizabeth Haven, that lasted as long as they all lived. I became acquainted with Sister Rockwood's little daughters Elizabeth and Ellen and little son Albert, who was about my own age. We had many joyous hours of happy play in their little playhouses that their kind father had built for them and their dear mother had furnished so abundantly. These were my second friends in the gospel, but alas, I never saw but one of them afterwards, for when we met the family a few years later at Quincy, Illinois, Elizabeth and Albert had died, and only Ellen was left to comfort the hearts of her parents —she afterwards became the wife of President Brigham Young, in Nauvoo, and died after coming to Utah when quite a young woman, leaving no children. We continued our 
 journey, and in due time arrived in New York City and stopped at the house of a Mrs. Fordham, a widow, but not a "Mormon." Here Brother Pratt began writing the Voice of Warning, and Brother Elijah Fordham, brother-in-law of the lady where we lived, and who had joined the Church some time before, came to help him in his work. Brother Pratt would write a few pages, read it aloud, then Brother Fordham would copy it and prepare it for the press. During these times I would have to sit down and keep very still, and I heard the whole of that book read before it ever was printed. At other times I must not make a noise to disturb them, but I could walk around and mother would entertain me with patchwork, cutting papers, drawing threads in pieces of cloth, and also now, I could have a precious doll, of some kind, but then I could not talk to it, and my friends and family will all realize what a privation this must have been to me, for naturally my tongue was very seldom still in my waking hours. Mother and I got along very well together — we were so used to each other that a little quiet sign language answered in most cases, and between times mother instructed me in what I should do, and I understood they were writing a book about the gospel — and I did try my very best to be a good little girl and do just what was required of me, and here I must say that this strict training was a help to me, in self-control, in after years. Board was quite expensive, and after a few weeks our folks decided to try light housekeeping. The one large room was all they could afford to hire, but my mother being an orderly, natural housekeeper, and not afraid of work, the room was always neat and presentable at the proper hours to be so, the large closet being a great help to that end in the matter. Many influential people called to talk with Brother Pratt, and as they were introduced to mother they were also told that "this was the little daughter." I remember the Rev. Dr. Cadmus who tried to be very sociable with me, but I shrank from him with the idea in my heart that they that were not for us, were against us. The New York Sun came constantly to our door, and I learned to spell the words, and the editor called to talk with Brother Pratt. I thought he must be a very great man if he could make a newspaper, but I also thought that Brother Pratt knew a great deal more than he did, though I could not tell just why it was so, not then realizing what the gospel light could bring to people. Some ten or twelve had joined the Church, and week-day prayer meetings were held in this home room. The converts and Saints rejoiced together exceedingly in that they had found the true gospel of Jesus Christ and learned the plan of salvation. At the close of the meetings the sisters would gather round my mother and embrace her as though she were a long absent friend or relative, and my mother rejoiced in their sisterly love as only one could do — who was a stranger in a strange city — and the friendships there begun are of eternal duration. They have lasted through time and will continue throughout eternity. I would like especially to mention the names of Sisters Rogers, Spencer and Delong — the two former coming to Utah where their acquaintance and friendship with mother continued through long years of hardships, sorrow and privations. When the good sisters of the meetings discovered that mother was keeping house, they vied with each other in bringing many nice dainties to add to the comfort of our living, and when one dear sister who had quite a large family, and who was in rather straitened circumstances at that time, brought a very beautiful offering, mother remonstrated and told her that she needed it for her own family's comfort — when the sister replied with tears in her eyes, "Would you deprive me of the privilege the other sisters enjoy in bringing their offerings and sharing in their pleasure in so doing?" She was a noble-spirited woman, and has posterity here in Utah, bearing honored names and that are worthy representatives of her faithfulness and her name will be mentioned hereafter in this narrative. And there are two of the brethren's names of these meetings that I will also record here, as they were friends indeed, in times of MARY ANN STEARNS PRATT. MARY ANN STEARNS WINTERS. 
 need — Brother David W. Rogers and Brother Elijah Fordham. And I ever remembered the good spirit of those meetings, and the powerful testimonies borne by those faithful Saints. At one of these times I first experienced the power of healing. I awoke in the night, in terrible pain, so great that I thought I could not live. Mother took me in her arms, and Brother Pratt laid his hands upon my head and blessed me — and I was instantly healed and as free from pain or distress as I ever was in my life. This occurred the night a special prayer meeting had been held at our home room — an account of which can be read in Parley P. Pratt's Autobiography, page 185 — and this was the beginning of the fulfilment of one of the prophecies made that night, "that the sick should be healed." And when I was made whole so suddenly, I thought, "Oh, they will never know how sick I was and how I suffered." Christmas of this year came in due time, and with it a little incident that for a number of years was a very great puzzle to my little mind. A little girl lived with her parents on the opposite side of the house from us, but our mothers had kept us so close in that we scarcely had seen each other or become at all acquainted. That we were "Mormons" I think had something to do in the case. But on this Christmas day we happened to meet in the hall. Her little heart seemed overflowing with joy and happiness, and she ran up to me exclaiming, "What did Santa Claus bring you?" As that was someone that I had never heard of I could only answer, "Nothing." "Didn't you hang up your stocking?" came next. My answer was, "What do you hang up your stocking for?" Then our tongues seemed to be loosed, and questions and explanations flowed so fast that it was hard to tell which came first, but I soon learned that all the children that hung up their stockings had them filled with nice presents. Hers had been so full that there was hardly room for the pretty little doll to stand in the top — and other toys placed around on the outside. Now what puzzled me, and I may say tried me very severely, was that this great and good and bounteous giver, Santa Claus, would come to a house where two little girls about the same age and nearly the same size both lived, and give so much to one and pass the other by without even a call. I compared myself with her in every particular and I could not see where she had the advantage in any way, or any greater claim on his favor than I had. She was happy and joyous and gratified, and wouldn't I have been also under like circumstances? Tears of disappointment were forcing their way in spite of all I could do, when the door opened and her young uncle came joyously in, caught her in his arms, and carried her playfully away to see what Santa Claus had brought her that Christmas day. At the beginning of the new year the times began to change — the people MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 489 were beginning to see the light of the gospel and many more were baptized. The Tammany Hall was hired and large gatherings of people came out to hear, and the first principles of the gospel were proclaimed with great power and I heard them repeated so often that I could frequently tell what was coming next in the discourses. A number of marriages of the Saints were performed in these public meetings — the first one that I remember was Brother Addison Everett and his good wife, Sister Orpha M., who ever remained faithful in the gospel of Jesus Christ and ere they; departed this life, they performed the work for many thousands of their kindred dead in the St. George Temple. The next couple were not so fortunate, for they soon drifted away from the Church and were lost sight of altogether. March was drawing to a close and my folks were preparing to move to Missouri, a few of the Saints were going with them to the new gathering place and all was bustle and preparation. By invitation we went to the home of Brother and Sister Alexander Mills to stay until we started for our journey, and it was at their house that I passed my fifth birthday, April 6, 1838, and I remember getting many love-pats, with one to grow on, on that occasion. They had a very talkative Poll parrot — she would say, "Poor Poll-Polly wants a cracker — Ann-Polly wants a cracker," but when I would go near her she would scold me hard — she did not like children, and I was afraid to be left in the room alone with her. But she liked Sister Ann who was one of the family, and would talk to her whenever she could see her. A few days before we left, a nice wedding party of the Saints assembled at the home of Sister Smith — and dear Sister Ann became the wife of Brother Azariah Tuttle, and I was the first to receive the greeting kiss from them and wish them much joy. At the end of their long and faithful lives they went to their rest in the city of Manti, Utah. In a few days we started on our westward journey, and in due time arrived at Far West, Missouri. We took up our residence in an empty log cabin a mile or two out from town, and Brother Pratt began preparations to build on a piece of land more than a mile distant from where we lived. THE MUSIC OF LIFE. Always B sharp. Never B flat. Ever B natural.