Schemes and Schedules. By Ruth Moench Bell. "It's either the back door, the front door, or the telephone," Mrs. Jones sighed as she laid her tatting down for the seventh time within an hour. "I am glad my ambition runs to fancy work and housekeeping. I wonder how the other women accomplish anything with all the interruptions we have. I think I shall bring the subject up at Relief Society today. There ought to be some way to get along without upsetting each other's plans." "It has been the biggest block in my way," Mrs. Priest exclaimed, after Relief Society, when the subject was broached, "and I have not found a way to move it yet. I don't mind lending sugar and lemon extract and quilting frames. And I like to have my friends call me up over the telephone and come and see me if—" "Yes, if —" Mrs. Jones prompted. "If they would choose the right times," Mrs. Priest admitted reluctantly. "I never get deep in my studies that I am not interrupted several times." "I think the person was right who called this the age of interruption," Mrs. Cheevers laughed. "Why not keep office hours," Mrs. Lochart suggested. "The very thing," Mrs. Jones agreed heartily. "That is the solution. Why shouldn't women as well as men have office hours?" "How could we let our friends know without hurting their feelings?" Mrs. Lochart interposed. "I haven't told a soul what I was trying to do. I was so afraid they would laugh at the idea of a woman of fifty years trying to learn something to carry with her to the other side." "It seems to me we are all making some use of our knowledge here," Mrs. Jones exclaimed defensively. "Sewing meetings and Relief Society meetings are getting so interesting I can scarcely wait for the next. I believe there is not a single woman in town who has not followed our example and taken up the study of something that interests her instead of merely reading aimlessly, and existing without definite, daily purpose." "I believe you are right," Mrs. Cheevers agreed. "Why even Grandma Brant is getting to be a regular Literary Digest and Review of Reviews, and daily newspaper all in one." "She is precisely the one I had in mind," Mrs. Jones cried with delight. "Whenever she begins to tell of the wonderful: SCHEMES AND SCHEDULES. 491 things that are going on today and Mrs. Lochart follows with 'that reminds me' of something that happened ages ago and that reminds Harriet of the struggles and triumphs of an artist that lived in those days, and that reminds Betty of a musician that also lived then — why I know the chain of knowledge has begun and we are going to have an interesting time." "And it is all a scheme on our part to tell what we have learned, so we can remember it better," Mrs. Cheevers laughed. "Besides, Betty Morgan is doing more than that for the same purpose. May I tell?" "If you do, I'll tell on you," Mrs. Morgan challenged gaily. "The secret is postponed," Mrs. Cheevers subsided. "Now let us get back to this office hour plan." 'I've been trying something of the sort," Mrs. Morgan admitted modestly. "The only drawback to the success of the scheme is that nobody knows when my office hours are, so they often interrupt me instead of coming when I really want them." "Then you really do crave our company sometimes," Mrs. Jones begged humorously. "Every evening from four to half-past five I positively yearn for you," Mrs. Morgan exclaimed dramatically. "And if you will stay and have a glass of milk or buttermilk and a sandwich with me, or go for a walk with me to enjoy the sunset, or have a game or two, I shall be overwhelmed with gratitude." "Received with enthusiastic cheers," Mrs. Jones declaimed in her new role of comedian. "I think we have all been rather fearful of calling on each other lest we might interrupt plans, since we have been trying to shape our lives to accomplish more. Now tell us your plan so we can help instead of hinder you." There was a small blackboard in the room and Mrs. Morgan seized a piece of chalk and wrote on the board DAILY SCHEDULE. 7 o'clock, arise and take breathing exercises. 8:30, breakfast. "Please, Teacher," Mrs. Priest interrupted jokingly, "how can you wait till 8:30 for breakfast?" "By drinking three glasses of water half an hour apart so as to rinse my stomach and system while the stomach is empty. I never have the water too cold, and I try to take the last about half an hour before breakfast, so it has left my stomach before I put food in. Drinking water between meals this way, walking daily, regardless of the weather, and taking breathing exercises, have done more for my health than anything I ever tried. And health I must have, if I am to do anything but mope around." 
 The women applauded merrily and Mrs. Morgan continued on the board. 9 to 10, out-of-door work, gardening, shopping or walking. 10 to 12, study. 12 to 1:30, make the bed, wash dishes, brush up while preparing dinner, 1:30 to 2:30, dinner and magazines. 2:30 to 4, write in my journal what I have learned, and my observations and impressions concerning it. Mrs. Morgan turned from the board and smiled, before she added, "Now here is where my friends come in." "Or should come in," Mrs. Jones corrected. "I imagine we used to come in almost any time but then." "How about evenings?" Mrs. Lochart enquired. "I find it doesn't pay to study of evenings," Mrs. Morgan admitted, "my brain goes on all night if I do. Hence from eight to ten I reserve for quiet Bible readings, meditations, and light needle work, crocheting, or making dainty aprons and neckwear, making repairs on my clothes, bathing, manicuring my nails and brushing my hair." "How about the time from seven to eight," Mrs. Cheevers asked with apparent innocence. "I'll confess if Harriet will," Mrs. Morgan laughed. Mrs. Cheevers nodded willingness and Mrs. Morgan went on hesitatingly. "You know, I'm not half as young as I used to be. And when I tried to study I found my brain was just like a sieve. It let every thing through. At first I tried, while I was about my work, to repeat to myself what I had learned. That helped. Then I tried keeping a journal and writing down all I could recall. Afterwards I would go over the work again to see what I had left out. That helped, also, because I tried to express myself on paper as clearly and correctly as possible." Mrs. Morgan suddenly broke off before making her confession, and Mrs. Cheevers took up the subject, seeing her friend was too modest to tell. "And now she has invented a story hour," Mrs. Cheevers added. "Now she is pouring into the eager ears of the neighbors' children the stories of the lives and works of great musicians. In short, she is using them to help her to remember just as the rest of us are scheming to use the Relief Society for the same purpose." "If the children enjoy it as much as the Relief Society does, no apology is necessary," Mrs. Jones said with enthusiasm. "If there is any credit due me," Mrs. Morgan laughed, "it is due Harriet Cheevers as well. She is making her neighbors' children acquainted with artists in the same way." SCHEMES AND SCHEDULES. 493 "Betty Morgan taught me the trick," Mrs. Cheevers declared. "I happened in one time when those youngsters were listening to an account of how Mozart, or was it Beethoven? slipped out of bed in the hush of night to try his new violin in the attic. Now the busy mothers are so delighted to have the story hour filled with such stimulating, inspiring biographies, to say nothing of the acquaintance with good music, for Betty plays for them after telling them about the music and the man who composed it, so now some of them insist on sending her a dollar a month to help her to buy books and music." They all gazed proudly at Betty Morgan whose scheme and schedule had worked so well. "I received six dollars last month," Mrs. Morgan proclaimed gratefully, "enough to buy Wagner's wonderful autobiography. Wasn't it good of them?" "Good of them," Mrs. Lochart echoed, "good of them. If some one had taken me when I was a child and made me acquainted with the names and lives and struggles and triumphs of the great artists, writers and musicians, I would have been the happiest girl in the world. The most thrilling thing I heard when I was a child, I can remember yet, and I believe it is responsible for my thirst for history. I still thrill at the memory of my grandfather's recital of historic events and particularly of his dramatic repetition of Wellington's cry: 'Blucher or sunset.' I learned to read just to be able, some day, to read all about it." "Maybe you would be interested in a game we have worked out," Mrs. Morgan suggested. "We got the idea from the game of authors. We took cardboard and had it cut into cards. Then we pasted pictures of all the artists and musicians we could get, and underneath printed the name of the person and the principal works." "I don't understand," Mrs. Jones questioned, "how do you play this game?" "Just like you do the game of authors which you can buy at any bookstore. We sometimes play this game with the children instead of telling them stories. It helps to get them familiar with the names and works of the men and women of whom we have been telling them." "I think you may expect about three of us over to your house tomorrow afternoon, at four, to play this new game," Mrs. Jones announced. "I am as eager as the children for more knowledge. 'The glory of God is intelligence,' and I want all I can get." "And the best of it is we shall feel welcome," Mrs. Lochart added. "Suppose we all save the same hours for friendly intercourse." "Agreed," they cried with one voice.