Being "Gran" Being "Gran" is not entirely that walking of a smooth, easy pathway which the uninitiated imagine it to be. Those diverse-minded little creatures in which one owns a one-quarter interest, are not unqualified blessings. That word Grand prefixed to pa and which childish lips abbreviate to "Gran," what a difference it makes "Gran," no matter how much he may be loved, is not one like pa to be obeyed. O no!"Gran" is a sort of confidential ally and slave. His one-quarter ownership in the little beings give him a full share in the love and anxiety of their welfare without the same full share in the directorship, as it were. Being "Gran," to make a success of the position, requires the exercise of considerable diplomacy. Those who, out of ignorance of the difficulties of the position, think that it is an easy one, let them put it to the proof Who are such intuitive knowers of character as children? Who so quickly seize upon the strategic value of a situation? They will find out the weak spots. They know the helplessness of "Gran." Children know that "Gran" must be on their side; there is no alternative for him. He must be on their side either to retain their love— or mamma's. Little tyrants! They are not going to lose their point of advantage. When it comes to a count, they number "Gran" as theirs. "Gran" is an assessment in time of need. Make no mistake, "Gran" with the children is as clay in the hands of the potter. "Gran," when he is "Gran" to several distinct groups of blessings, soon learns some facts. Often he walks on very thin ice, or his pathway lies along the edge of dangerous precipices. All former experiences fail, he is compelled to adopt a new line of tactics. If he would be a popular "Gran" and give satisfaction to all concerned, he must forget past methods which proved a success in his own home-circle. He must adapt himself to the new conditions. In these home-circles, one removed, he is not the one whose word is law, but the onlooker, the one whose designs, if he has designs, must be hidden beneath his words of praise. The son, the daughter, cannot accept an adverse criticism upon the! BEING "GRAN." 495 darling from "Gran." If the aforesaid "Gran" wishes to wound to the utmost a heart, let him speak adversely of a child of his child. Least of all can be borne a criticism put in the manner of comparison. "Gran" must not compare one darling with another darling, to which poor "Gran" is "Gran." That would be the Alpha and Omega, and all that lies between, of offense. "Gran" must individualize each child. And woe be unto him if he see not all the merits and see the faults What is "Gran" for, if not to be enraptured? "Gran" must be in a constant state of surprise, the discoverer of ever new wonders. For each successive miracle which comes to make a claim, he must use all the words of superlative, exhaust the adjectives at his command. If not for this, then of what use is "Gran"? And, wonder!that really is exactly what "Gran" does. Yet then his troubles do not end. He can divide himself in thought and sympathy he can see to it that his; attentions are equally divided, his caresses almost numbered but he can-; not divide the corporal being, he cannot be in two places at one and the same time. And there is a danger. To what subterfuge he must resort Really! there are critical moments, when he must decide where it is right for him to be. Pity then the troubles of "Gran," nor think his part in life so easy. "Gran" might be considered as a safety-valve for the ebullition of the grandchild. "Gran" might be never so mind-weary, yet he must listen, smiling, to the childish prattle, or the youthful trouble. The one would talk of her dolly, another would have him listen to the music lesson which she has learned, and yet another would have him watch and comment upon the 
 skill with which a puzzle-picture is put together. One would have him listen to the recitation of a piece which will be given at the closing exercises of school, while another would have him give attention to the new record which has been bought for the graphaphone. And be he body-weary, yet he must be ready on the instant for a game of Ring-around the Rosie, or he must be Gulliver among the Lilliputians. And so it goes. Each and all are clamorous, at one and the same minute, for recognition of these individual and immediate claims. — But the compensation! "Gran" gives his wonderment yet; he is in turn, a wonder. How delightful to be such a hero! How soothing to vanity to be so implicitly believed, to be the center of so much faith! There is a sort of second childhood in being a "Gran." If one cannot now imagine himself the hero as he did in those imaginative hours of the far-away youth, why, then, he can be the hero to that circle of wondering hearers. How filled with trust, with admiration, the innocent eyes! How brave was "Gran" ! He is the accepted hero as the slayer of wolves and tigers, of bears and lions, as the defeater of ogres and giants. He can overcome monsters of every kind. Yes, "Gran" is the one who can tell how to get out of enchanted woods, to obtain the sacks of gold and jewels in robbers' caves, to slay the dragons which guard hidden treasure, and the crocodiles on the shores of desert islands. "Gran" is the last court of appeals. "Gran" said so. What could be more conclusive than that? Thank Heaven that one can be a "Gran." Life would be incomplete without those gifts. I mean those gifts which come to our love of earlier years. Or, to express another thought, that galaxy of stars which makes beautiful the darkening skies of life. Those gifts, those clustered stars are the links which bind one to the golden dreams of the past; the wondrous dreams of the future. Thank Heaven for those gifts of gifts which make one answer to the name of "Gran." Alfred Lambourne.