Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. State-wide prohibition seems assured in Utah. President Carranza of Mexico has decided to resign office, then be a candidate for election, thus letting go with a strong string attached to the position. Turkey still appears in the list of doomed nations, getting gradually nearer the end. Both the Russians and the Arabs have dealt the sultan severe body blows in recent battles. The Serbian army, driven from its own country, has been rehabilitated by the French, and has entered Serbia again, gaining notable success against the Bulgarians. Infantile paralysis has claimed over a thousand child victims in New York during the month of July, and yet no cure or way to prevent its spread has been discovered. Preparedness in the United States for war is making high figures in expense, the congressional program providing a $700,000,000 appropriation therefor this season. Sharks on the New York and New Jersey coasts have taken several bathers as victims this season. Bathers there now find it safer to use a bathtub, yet not half so entertaining in the public display of shapely and shapeless limbs. Armenians to the number of 800,000 are reported by American missionaries to have been put to death by the Turks during the past year. The really available protest against this butchery is the abolition of Ottoman rule. Villa, the Mexican bandit, so often reported killed, is very much alive, and during the latter part of July the Mexican government adopted energetic means to stop his activity but it cost; a lot of trouble to the United States to get this action. The Danish West Indies has been purchased by the United States at a cost of $25,000,000. The inhabitants of the Islands and the Danish government, at least, think it a good bargain. In San Francisco, a preparedness parade was made the occasion of a bomb outrage which cost the lives of several people. Peace propaganda promotion is by no means the outcome of such incidents. Verdun's battle has lasted 200 days without cessation, but the last 20 days of this period marked such a diminution in the extent of the fighting that it gained the aspect of a French victory. Prof. Evan Stephens has been a very successful leader of the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir for 26 years and, deciding that it was time for him to be relieved of the work, resigned. He is succeeded by Prof. A. C. Lund of Provo. Prof. Levi Edgar Young, of the University of Utah, is engaged in exploring prehistoric ruins in southeastern Utah, and has instituted the very desirable policy of preserving the archaeological remains there, instead of robbing them of relics. Bicycle thoughtlessness by boys riding these vehicles on sidewalks has caused another death, this time the victim being an aged lady residing at Ogden. It is another suggestion that parents should aid officers of the law by teaching their children the fitness of observing traffic rules. achieved a great victory this year in having, for the first time, a leading candidate for President of the United States make an outright declaration in its favor. Judge Charles E. Hughes says pointedly that he favors women having the voting franchise. Higher taxes in Utah generally for the year 1916 is now a certainty, but the people who pay are by no means convinced that it is a necessity further than official extravagance makes it so. George F. Richards of the Council of Apostles has taken charge of the Latter-day Saints European mission, where, at this juncture in European affairs, his characteristic courtesy and sincerityand faithfulness to duty doubtless will aid greatly in promoting the gospel cause. Europe's war has changed aspect during the past month, the Teutonic allies now being on the defensive instead of on the offensive in every field, and suffering heavy losses in the hardest fought big battles that history records. The "Deutschland," a German merchantman submarine, caused great public interest upon its arrival at an American port 
 in Chesapeake Bay, after a trip through the British blockade, from Bremen, Germany. This was not the first submarine, however, to cross the Atlantic, several of British nationality having made the trip from England to Canada and return. Capt. Charles Fryatt, commander of the steamship Brussels, has been put to death by the Germans because he tried in self-defense to ram a submarine which had attacked his vessel. In his efforts to justify the execution of the English captain, the Prussian kaiser seems to get as little sympathy as was extended for the execution of the English nurse, Edith Cavell. A gas well explosion in a waterworks tunnel under Lake Erie at Cleveland, Ohio, caused the death of a score of workmen. An ugly feature connected with the accident is that while two departments of the city government were quarreling over which should analyze the air in the tunnel, the men were allowed to go in;whereas, if the analysis had been made promptly none would have ventured. A frightful explosion of about 80 carloads of munitions of war on the piers at Black Tom island, on the New Jersey coast near New York City, killed several persons, destroyed about $15,000,000 in property, shook towering office buildings in New York to their foundations, and covered the streets for miles with broken glass. It is believed that an incendiary, with the purpose of destroying the munitions of war which were intended for England and France, caused the disaster. Nature as a catastrophe-bearer in North America made itself manifest in July in a fierce seaboard storm on the Atlantic coast of the United States, in devastating forest fires in Ontario, Canada, and a terrific heat wave in the north Mississippi valley, each exacting a heavy toll in human life. One night in Chicago the heat surpassed all previous records. Not only man, but the elements, seem unusually disturbed in 1916. Women in farmwork seem an important part of Germany's economic position this year. A German officer, captured recently on the Flanders front, is quoted as having said that the harvest of 1916 would determine the fate of Germany in the war. It is being made largely by women. If the women can raise a full crop, Germany cannot be starved out. If they cannot, Germany must eventually yield to her foes. War prisoners are being worked in the fields, but the results are so unsatisfactory because of unequal distribution as to bring severe criticism from many German newspapers.