GUIDE LESSONS. 
 HOUSEHOLD TASKS. ? Sewing. Co-operation of neighborhoods in general home sewing by purchase in bulk of materials in table linens and underwear, and the hiring of a woman in common to do the work at a central place, has been tried with good success. ? Mending. The same thing has been done with the mending basket by the hiring at small expense of some one person with leisure to go the rounds and clean up the mending basket. Some of the school departments of Domestic Art have co-operated with the busy homes and thus killed two birds with one stone, relieved the mother and taught the daughter. ? Sweeping. The purchase of a good vacuum cleaner by several homes in common where the price was prohibitive to one, has relieved some home-keepers of a heavy task. ? Canning. An interesting experiment is being tried out in one of the southern counties of Utah. A band of women has purchased in common a "steam or pressure cooker," a piece of equipment that has the merit of doing the work in a fourth of the time, with a surety of result and a minimum expense for fuel. They expect to put up all their vegetables and meats at a central place, working in co-operation with each other as to time of use. One woman said that if the washing and ironing were out of the home she would consider the rest of the work as nothing in comparison. It seems as if much valuable time is put into the weekly recurring task that might be better spent. The following are things to be said for and against: VALUE OF CO-OPERATIVE LAUNDRY. ? Economy of Time to the Many. One central plant doing the work of many individual homes. The purchase of first class machinery for all laundering purposes by many at small cost to each, saving the price of at best one piece of equipment by a comparatively few at greater cost to each purchaser. The use of the power of such plants as canneries, creameries, cheese factories, at minimum cost to consumers. Increased Cleanliness. ?The natural inclination is to reduce the size of the washing. The comfort and healthfulness of being able to change the household linen regularly, and use as much fresh underwear as the needs of the wearer demand, cannot be overestimated. You have heard of the busy housewife who said that the only reason she wanted to be a queen was so that she might have fresh clothing on every day. 
 ? Economy of Wear. Clothing changed frequently wears much longer than when worn constantly, and requiring so much extra rubbing in the wash tub. ? Economy of Energy. A doctor who said that the three things that affected the nursing mother's milk was overheating, overworking, and worry, or any passion, was asked what a woman should do who had a heavy washing in progress when the baby's feeding time came. His reply was, "Madam, either put the washing out during the nursing period, or stop working at least half an hour before the time of feeding." Many babies are suffering from wash days. Is it not time, Utah women, to be thinking along the lines of the women of Minnesota and Wisconsin and planning to "let go the lesser in order to keep the greater?" ? Objections to a Public Laundry. One of the oft made objections is that the washing will not be done to suit the housewife. We realize that care in choosing the operators will have to be taken. The work must be done up to home standards. It is an undisputed fact that most women know more about doing the washing than about feeding their families. There are women in every town who are available and anxious for work, who by taking a correspondence course in laundry work, or even an intelligent study of a good manual, could with their practical experience take charge of a laundry. ? Danger of Infection. Watchfulness would be needed, but for all ordinary cases the boiling water and exposure to the sun would eliminate all danger. ? The Ready Cash not Available. When a town wants lights the bill for electricity is paid without difficulty. When the need occurs the price will be forthcoming. ? The Cost too High. Quoting from data received from the Co-operative laundry of Chatfield, Minn., the average price per washing on the farm is 97.9 cents. The cost of fuel, starch, soap, and interest on machinery alone amounts to more. Would Rather Save the Money and Buy Something Else. ? "Penny wise and pound foolish." Not the pound is the "pound of flesh" and is a sacrifice of the greater for the lesser. ? "Clothes not Good Enough to Send." Do we not need to teach the girl and boy the lesson that no matter how plain, the underwear must be neat and clean. Might not a community laundry be an aid in raising the home standard in such matters? ? How to Organize Community Activities. Find out the needs of the individual community. Believe in the scheme and talk it up so as to create sentiment. Send for information on methods of organization. ? The Opportune Time. We may not be ready for the advanced idea of such co-operation as the foregoing. We may prepare for it in the future by making every home so co-operative; GUIDE LESSONS. 539 that the next step will be but a step in advance. Then those who are leaders must seize the opportune moment that always comes when time is ripe for action and without undue strain the thing is accomplished, always remembering that the working together for the good of all in a community is the result of the team work of the home. QUESTIONS. 1. What is the true principle underlying co-operation? 2. What are some of the advantages of co-operation in the home? 3. What about community co-operation? 4. What can you say about the United Order? 5. How can you teach children the principles of co-operation? 6. What would you think of a neighborhood laundry? 7. Devise a plan for a co-operation cafeteria. 8. What benefit is a creamery to a town? 9. How would you organize a community canning factory? 10. What effect would a community day nursery have in your town? 11. Read the 104th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 47-53.