Vol. XIII MAY, 1926 No. 5 EDITORIAL James Matthew Barrie's Mother the Most Potent Force in his Literary Creations
We have among the great playwrights of modern times a well defined case of mother worship. James Matthew Barrie, the British playwright, has given us a wonderful pen picture of his mother in his book entitled Margaret Ogilvy. Yet her influence upon his writings did not cease with the volume that bears her name, for her character has been the constant inspiration of his heroines. In his drama entitled What Every Woman Knows, Maggie, the heroine, is generally conceded to be no other than his mother. So potent has been her influence upon his works, that a well known critic tells us that he thinks that when Barrie writes he imagines his mother standing at his side, and, as it were, dictating to him the things he shall write.
William Lyon Phelps, the American critic, located at Yale University, has this to say about the influence of Barrie's mother upon his writings: "Margaret Ogilvy, in her life, conversation, and influence, subtle as it was pervading, is the mother not only of her wonderful son, but of his wonderful works."
It is difficult to imagine a higher tribute than this. Mothers have worked directly and indirectly that their sons might become useful and great. They have prayed that such might be the ultimate goal of their teachings and admonitions, but few have been given credit for actually inspiring the creations, supplying, as it were, the painter's model.
The following quotation from William Lyon Phelps, bearing on this matter, we feel sure will prove of interest to our readers:
"So far as there is any key to the mystery of Barrie, it is to be found in a woman, Margaret Ogilvy. She was his mother. During the years of his intimate association with her in his childhood and early youth, she exercised a powerful influence over him; but that is nothing to what she did for him after her departure. The spiritual presence of those whom we love is often more real than their physical existence; especially is this true of the influence of parents on their offspring. They reach out from the grave invisible hands and guide our steps; their inaudible voices mould our opinions. We treat them with more deference than when they were here."
238 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Mother, the Most Popular Theme
There is a widespread belief that Spring is the popular theme of verse makers. Many people have remarked about the perennial crop of verse makers who write Spring poems; yet, judging from the receipts of our office more persons write verses on Mother than any other theme. We have perhaps read fifty poems during the past six months on Mother, many of which have been returned because the Magazine could not devote too much space to one theme no matter how beloved that theme might be.
We are including in this editorial the last stanza of some verses, by Angie W. Warnick, which is part of a tribute to her mother on her 85th birthday:
Now Mother, we wish you, on this birthday, dear, Many more happy days to come with each year. You have given us talents more precious than wealth, Have cared for your children and kept them in health, Have pointed the way for true manhood to go, Have laid a foundation of faith that will grow. Your husband and daughters and sons love you true, And grandchildren rejoice that their grandma is You.
EDITORIAL 239
Prohibition
It is likely that some concern is being felt by persons interested in prohibition because of the recent activities in Congress aimed at the modification of the Volstead Act. There is a widespread belief that women are particularly interested in prohibition. This belief is supported by such leadership as was given the cause by Frances Willard in early days, and by the activities of the Women's Christian Temperance Union at a later period.
To be sure, the recent polls conducted by a group of newspapers are not reassuring. It would seem from results that a goodly number of women neglected to go to the polls. We say neglected because we think it quite impossible that any great number of women have been won over by the arguments of the opponents of the cause.
While those opposed to the present law are producing statistics and arguments that are designed to show that it is a failure, we urge our readers not to grow faint-hearted, but to examine carefully the arguments and statistics presented by the proponents of the cause, and note the progress that has been made, discouraging as some features relating to enforcement appear to be.
One thing is very evident in relation to this matter and that is that we cannot rest on our oars, but must be active, continually, for the enforcement of the law. In 1920, we were in a convention where some persons pretended to believe that prohibition was a dead issue. At present it is showing marvelous vitality for a cause that was regarded as needing only passing attention.
While we like to feel that women all over the United States are interested in prohibition, and that much responsibility rests with them in relation to this matter, we feel that Latter-day Saint women should be especially interested, as they have been trained to keep the Word of Wisdom for a goodly number of years. This is the Mother's issue of the Magazine. Surely every mother is interested in protecting her sons and daughters from so destructive a thing as intoxicants.
We are including in this article a few paragraphs from the Dearborn Independent, which should give encouragement to persons who believe in prohibition.
PROHIBITION CAN BE ENFORCED
Ask the people of Schoharie County
"Travel where you may in Schoharie County, in New York state, you will not hear it contended even by the bitterest enemies of prohibition that the law cannot be enforced. These people give vent to their feelings in another way, namely, by cursing the law and the officers and citizens who enforce it. For the Volstead Act is enforced in that county, and let there be no mistake
240 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
about it, Schoharie county holds itself up as an example of the fact that the National Prohibition Law can be enforced as well as any other law?as well as the laws governing larceny, assault, or murder.
"The crusade to close up the places where intoxicating liquors were sold in this county began about a year ago, when Albert Baker, a district attorney; Preston Kennedy, a husky evangelist preacher; George Oliver, a deputy sheriff, accompanied by a Federal officer with a search warrant, entered one of the largest and most popular hotels in the county, took possession of the bar and liquors, arrested the owner and proprietor, urged and procured a speedy arraignment of him in the Federal court, which resulted in his plea of guilty and a fine, and the commencement of padlock proceedings against him, as a result of which he disposed of the hotel and left the state.
"Under the present ownership and management the bar and bar fixtures have been removed, and in their place are soda fountains and ice cream tables patronized by children and women. As a booze place the hotel is a thing of the past.
"The result of this raid and cleaning up was that dealers in illicit liquors began to sit up and take notice.
"Section 22 of the Volstead Act provides as follows:
"An action to enjoin any nuisance defined in this title may be brought in the name of the United States by the Attorney-General of the United States or by any United States Attorney or any prosecuting attorney of any state or any subdivision thereof or by the commissioner or his deputies or assistants. Such action shall be brought and tried as an action in equity and may be brought in any court having jurisdiction to hear and determine equity cases. If it is made to appear by affidavits or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or judge in vacation, that such nuisance exists, a temporary writ of injunction shall forthwith issue restraining the defendant from conducting or permitting the continuance of such nuisance until the conclusion of the trial.'
"Under this provision of the Volstead Act the District Attorney began a general crusade to make the county absolutely dry. He personally conducted raids and searches, aided at times by his son Richard, a senior in Harvard, during the vacation period, and by local and Federal officers, at times engaging in personal encounters, for the purpose of obtaining evidence upon which to base the injunction, or padlock action under the section quoted.
"At the county seat, Schoharie village, there had existed for a half-century on the main street, alongside the only bank in the village, directly across from the court-house, a saloon which has been wide open, not only during the days when the law permitted, but even on Sundays, long after the Volstead Act was passed.
EDITORIAL 241
"On a late Saturday evening last April this same preacher, the district attorney, his son, two live-wire young Federal officers, and two state troopers, entered the barroom of the saloon, took possession of it, searched the bar and the customers present, found intoxicating liquor not only in the bar but on the patrons, arrested the proprietor and his bartender, caused them to be prosecuted in the Federal court, and with the evidence brought an action in equity, and in less than two months had the building closed. It is now being used as an electrical store and shop."
The Dearborn Independent, March 27, 1926.
Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Honored
Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon has been signally honored by the American Women's Association, a club of 5,000 business and professional women. A monster mass meeting was held by this organization on the evening of March 18, which was addressed by "distinguished speakers of national importance." The letter informing Mrs. Cannon that she had been selected from Utah, states that the purpose of the meeting was to honor the achievements of women in business and professions, and to elect to honorary membership in the Association a business or professional woman from each state in the union.
In communicating the desire of the organization to name her, we quote the following paragraph from the letter to Mrs. Cannon:
"May we have the honor of naming you on this occasion as the woman from Utah whose success and influence have been most far reaching? An acceptance on your part involves no financial obligations of any kind, now or at any other time. It will, however, make it possible for you to offer to the young business and professional women of your state who come to New York, contact with successful women here. It will also afford them the background of our new clubhouse. Nearly $2,000,000 of stock has been sold of the $3,000,000 necessary before we start to build."
The Magazine congratulates Mrs. Cannon on the honor that has come to her. Naturally we are glad that this honor has fallen to a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, and to a woman who has held so many places of responsibility during her life. We are happy to add to the record of her other achievements the fact that she is one of the outstanding mothers of the State of Utah. While this time recognition has come to her because of her achievements in the business and professional world, it is not long ago that she received two prizes, one for having the largest family of any woman in her ward, and a second for being the mother of twins. We are happy that national recognition has been accorded this outstanding mother.
The Soul's Sincere Desire
By Lillith Shell
School was out and for two weeks Madame Paoleau's studio had been open daily from morning until evening, for Madame gave dancing lessons, and during the month of June she kept long hours, that month being given over entirely to children. The studio was on the fourth floor of the Humboldt Building; above it was the Hilsebeck School of Dramatic Expression, below it the Author's Club, across the street on various corners were the Public Library, the Y. M. C. A., and the Wimberly Hotel, all imposing in their greatness, but four blocks to the north began the district where landlords wrung rent from the poor for the hovels which the landlords called "apartments."
Here Americans, mixed with foreigners of every nationality, ate and drank and sweated and stunk and bred their innumerable progeny. Here a young Italian woman had come and married her betrothed, here bore him a son, and here, at the birth, died. A woman next door had looked after the baby for a few months, but before he was a year old the father was killed in a drunken brawl and the child was left upon the hands of the neighbor, who, already possessed of ten children of her own, felt justified in disposing of the child who had no natural claim upon her.
Each tenement is a little world in itself, and half-witted old George Bowns, living in the basement of a tenement on Third Street, did not know of the existence of the little Italian orphan or the woman into whose hands he had fallen, although they lived as near to him as the middle of the next block. Neither did the mother of ten know at whose door she deposited the bundle of filthy rags with the child inside, but when old George opened his door on a winter morning and the bundle rolled at his feet, he accepted it without any emotional disturbance, and for five years divided his living with the child, doing his best for it, and if the words of Holy Writ may be applied promiscuously, that poor best was surely accounted unto him for righteousness.
Old George never thought of naming the youngster. He had no occasion to refer to the boy in conversation with others for he had no associates, and in their private conversations the child seemed always on the alert for the old man's words, so he went nameless as far as old George was concerned. However, as he grew out of babyhood, he found a name for himself upon the tongues of the children playing about the garbage around the
THE SOUL'S SINCERE DESIRE 243
back doors of the tenement. They began to call him "Guts," and as no objection was offered to it the name clung to him.
He came and went at will. In the school about the back yard garbage his education began. Once he was moved to ask some questions about a woman he saw at one of the doors.
"Who's 'at?" pointing a dirty finger at Mrs. Kogwumski.
"Mudder," informed little Emil Kogwumski.
"Wha's mudder?" inquired the young votary of life.
"She make dinner," elucidated Emil.
"Where's your mudder?"
"Got none," came the answer, but in the baby heart a mighty desire was born at that moment.
I
One day the little Italian wandered up the street as far as the Humboldt Building. He was attracted by the children entering and leaving the place, going to and from Madame's dancing school. All forenoon he watched. He discovered that with every child or group of two or three was a woman, presumably a "mudder." He watched all afternoon. The next morning he was at his post. Scornful glances from haughty young snobs were lost upon him. He was not interested in the children. He had begun a systematic study of the women who escorted the young ones.
A plan formed in his quick little mind. From experience he knew that "mudders" with many children were not interested in more. He would watch for one who had no children. Morning and afternoon he stood at his place. He no longer saw the children except vaguely as an adjunct to the "mudders." He observed the kindly attitude of the women toward the children. He never once saw a woman strike a child. His desire to belong to one of these wonderful creatures became an obsession.
Several times he slipped inside the great swinging doors and paddled along behind some woman who was leading no child. She had entered the elevator or climbed the stairs and invariably had disappeared behind some door without ever having seen him.
But one day a thing happened which caused the heart inside him to turn over and, as far as he was concerned, ended his quest. Miss Madeline Murray paused at the entrance of the Humboldt Building fingering in her purse. Now, Miss Murray was the author of many books about children. The primer used in the state schools was a product of her brain. She was an expert on the training of children?by absent treatment. While her fingers were busy with her purse her eyes fell upon the dirty child, who was regarding her intently. Involuntarily she smiled at him. She did not wait for a responsive smile, but having found
244 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
what she sought in her bag, went in, unaware that he was at her heels.
She went straight to the elevator. As soon as the child saw her intention he darted up the stairs, paused an instant on the second floor to see if she would leave the elevator, and when she did not, sped up another flight, reaching the landing just as the lady was stepping into the corridor. He followed her until she went in at a door with the insignia of the Author's Club above it. He hung about the corridor waiting until at last the lady came out, then he sped down the stairs and was waiting outside when she reached the street. He watched for a smile, but she had forgotten him.
Day after day this scene was repeated. Some days the lady did not come, but undiscouraged, the boy returned to his post with high hopes for the next. At last she became aware of his steps at her heels. For some time she feigned not to notice him, but when she had assured herself that he was really waiting there for her each morning and was designedly following her, she spoke about the circumstances to the people whom she met behind that closed door. She pointed out the boy to them and he became the subject of lively conjecture among them.
One day, instigated by one, Marcus Bent, a frequenter of the Author's Club, a plan was set afoot to capture and interrogate the waif in the presence of the assembled literati. So on a morning Miss Murray dazzled the eyes of her devotee with an unusually brilliant smile and noted that he was performing the usual routine. When she reached the door of the Club, instead of closing it upon the child, she turned abruptly and, laying a hand upon his shoulder, impelled him into the room before her.
"Well, here's the criminal, caught in the act," she announced, keeping her hand upon his shoulder.
Marcus Bent began the inquiry.
"Say, sonny, do you know this lady?" indicating Miss Murray. The boy nodded affirmatively.
"Oh, you do? What's her name?"
"I do' know."
"What's yours, then? I guess you know that?"
The child looked up brightly. "Guts is mine."
"By George! What did you say? Guts?" The child nodded.
"Why do you follow this lady every time she comes here?"
No answer.
"Say, kid, why do you run up the stairs every time she takes the elevator?"
No answer.
"Come, sonny, speak up, can't you? What do you want of her?"
THE SOUL'S SINCERE DESIRE 245
"I c'd use 'er for a mudder," came the unexpected reply.
"A mother? Whatever made you think of that?" pressed the interlocutor.
"When dem odder kids was comin' 'ere wid der mudders I see she wasn't nobody's mudder, an' I c'd use 'er for mine," explained the boy, "an' she's softer'n dem odder mudders."
"Softer?" and a chorus of laughter went up.
"Well, I guess you'll have to make another selection, my boy," advised Marcus Bent.
"He will not," came the decisive voice of Miss Madeline Murray, and as her hand slipped to the opposite shoulder of the child the men and women who knew her so well saw something in her face they had never seen there before, the look of protecting motherhood.
PLANTING THE FIRST "MOTHERS' TREE"
On the shore of Lake Anietam, at Reading, Pennsylvania, on the afternoon of Sunday, May 13, "Mothers' Day," the white birch was dedicated and planted with appropriate ceremonies.
Mothers' Day Tributes
By Lula Greene Richards
In our near Western communities the first quarter of the present year?1926?seems to have been strongly characterized by the passing away in death of many aged, young and middle-aged matrons. And for this cause it may be presumed that in many households this month of May will bring Mothers' Day not only as a sacred time for loving thoughts and appreciative expressions in words and actions of the mothers' never failing devotion toward their children?but it will also come as a solemn and even lonely season because of the missing from their accustomed places of so many prized and precious mothers.
The heartfelt sympathies of the Magazine go out to all who suffer from such bereavement?and offers all that sincere condolement may be able to give.
EDNA L. SMITH
As one prominent among those mothers whose deaths have occurred but recently may be recorded the name of Sister Edna Lambson Smith. Her long and faithful service in the Endowment House of past years?later in the Salt Lake Temple where she presided successfully over the Sister Workers for years?and also her works in the different organizations of the women of the Church, have brought her into close touch and mutual helpfulness and cooperation with many hundreds of the Latter-day Saints by whom her name will ever be reverenced and her memory highly esteemed.
Sister Edna was a native of Salt Lake City, born on March 3, 1851, in the adobe house built by her father on the corner of North Temple and First West Streets, and known as the first plastered house built in the new city. Edna's father?Alfred B. Lambson, and her mother?Melissa Jane Bigler Lambson?were Utah Pioneers of 1847. On New Year's Day?January 1, 1871?Edna was married to Apostle Joseph F. Smith, who later became the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Edna's first child was her son Hyrum M. Smith, who before his death was sustained by the Church as one of the Council of Twelve. Nine other children were born to her, four of whom are living, namely, Alvin F. Smith, Edna Melissa Smith Bowman, Emma Smith and Martha Smith Jenson.
AUNT EDNA'S PREPARATIONS
A few days previous to the demise of Sister Edna L. Smith
MOTHERS' DAY TRIBUTES 247
?which occurred on Sunday, the 28th of February, 1926?"Aunt Edna" (as she was familiarly known among her large circle of friends) showed a new and strong desire to extend to her loved ones and near associates an evidence of especial concern and tender interest in her feelings toward them. The relating of one or two instances will perhaps sufficiently portray the marked emotional influence by which she was moved at the time.
It was at a small social gathering that Aunt Edna found an opportunity of drawing aside one of her former intimate associates between whom and herself some misunderstanding had existed. With evidence of a softened spirit Aunt Edna heartily congratulated the other lady on her being the recipient of an inestimable good turn of fortune, and declared that, upon hearing of the great blessing which had come to her friend she was so moved upon that she wept for joy. This demonstration from Aunt Edna increased the other lady's happiness immensely.
Exactly one week before her death as Aunt Edna entered the Seventeenth ward chapel for Sunday evening service she was met and kindly greeted by her Bishop, Nicholas G. Smith. While speaking with him she made the following remarkable announcement: "Bishop, I am not coming to meeting here any more." Little did Aunt Edna or her listener think her statement was prophetic and would soon be proved true. Bishop Smith answered her good-naturedly, and proposed that she take a seat near the door where they were standing, but she answered that she would prefer going to her accustomed portion of the building. With her daughter, Emma, she passed from the west to the east side of the hall.
Aunt Edna selected a seat by the side of one of her close friends and associate workers. "I just thought I would come down here and sit by you," she said, in a kindly, pleasant way. The friend thanked her for the consideration shown. There were a few moments of spare time before the meeting commenced, and a quiet, neighborly little chat was whispered between the two friends who had been companions in Church work for more than a quarter of a century. This little episode, occurring as it did so near the coming of the more important event so soon to follow, is and will continue to be a cherished and sacred reminiscence of dear Aunt Edna to the woman still remaining.
At that Sunday evening service the principal part of the time was allotted to the ward Primary association, that the work done by the officers and children might be presented before the parents and other older members of the ward. And another pleasing and striking feature connected with the doings of the evening?as viewed afterwards?was the selection of the child to offer the opening prayer. So promptly and perfectly was the prayer pro-
248 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
nounced that the friend beside Aunt Edna whispered to her while the boy was taking his seat, "That little fellow knows his business, doesn't he?" And Aunt Edna whispered back, "That is my grandson, Martha's boy." The friend had not recognized the child?it was Harold Smith Jenson.
Aunt Edna seemed unusually happy at that last meeting which she was to attend on earth?a farewell gathering for her to be followed only by her own obsequies. Without doubt, the same loving regard would have been extended toward all her friends had they happened to meet her, that was shown to those who were so fortunate as to come in contact with her during the last few days of her life.
The remark was made by one of the speakers at her funeral that "Aunt Edna was a natural Latter-day Saint." And those who understood her best could testify to the truth of that assertion. To bear witness to the truth of the Gospel as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was as natural to Aunt Edna as drawing her breath.
The last unusual feature in Aunt Edna's preparations for final departure was the unique arrangement which brought her funeral services to be held on the third of March?her seventy-fifth birthday?making the wonderful combination of a birthday celebration and a funeral gathering all in one.
Oft in this earth life, weary and distressed? Longing for those departed whom we love? How sweet to find new work and heavenly rest, As dear Aunt Edna has in life above.
Mother o' Mine
By Alberta Huish Christensen
The balm of the radiant sunshine, And the freshness of morning dew, The truest of gold, to fashion a heart, Were used in the making of you.
A smile that is calm as an infant's A love that can mock fate, or time; You never have counted the cost or pain, Wonderful Mother O' Mine.
A soul that can rise above malice, Mortal, and yet more divine, Surely, God used just the best things He had, When he made you, Mother O' Mine.
The Triumph of Love
By Sylvia
The spacious College Hall was packed with an eager crowd of people. Among them were the proud fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, uncles and aunts, and friends of the one hundred twenty-four graduates who were seated on the stage facing the audience. To lend dignity to the auspicious occasion, the faculty of the College and the learned Doctor from Stanford University, who was to deliver the commencement address, were stationed just above the graduates. As the College band skillfully played the "Stars and Stripes Forever," and "My Country Tis of Thee," those honored guests, the graduates, personified, in the minds of the listeners, soldiers who were soon to enter the battle-field of life. Some as generals, captains and, perchance, a commander in chief might be found in the ranks. All must be valiant, well trained fighters, otherwise the Alma Mater will have failed in its work.
During the address of the Doctor these words fell with significant meaning on the mind of one of the graduates. "These young women who augment your number by one half, have successfully completed their prescribed courses shoulder to shoulder with you young men. As they enter into the activities of life they are entitled to equal opportunities and are prepared to work shoulder to shoulder with their brother man."
Then came a vocal solo, "O Love Divine," by Helen Fairchild, who had won in a state wide contest, a scholarship in the Boston Conservatory of Music. The audience listened spellbound to her masterful interpretation. Miss Fairchild poured into her rendition all the pent up emotions of her perplexed heart. As she sang, one of the young men graduates might have been seen to be greatly affected. This was apparent first by the loving gaze of admiration he gave the young singer. Then as the prolonged applause rang louder and louder a look of desperate determination overspread his face, making him look like a young football player determined to win or die.
Said young man was by name Theodore Farley, leader of his class and the most popular man in College. During the last year, he had been a most ardent and successful suitor for the favor and smiles of the beautiful, gifted, Helen Fairchild.
As the program closed, friends and admirers of Helen swarmed around, effusive in their words of praise of her song. Mary Gordon, her closest friend and companion, was the first to offer congratulations. "Helen, you must make use of your scholarship and go East to continue your voice training.
250 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
You make me weep to think that nature has not given me one single gift."
Helen laughed happily, "Why, Mary, you possess the gift of making everyone love you, and besides George will make good in his musical career. And say, my modest friend, when is the happy event to take place?"
Mary drew Helen's ear to her mouth confidingly. "The 18th of June."
"O, so soon?"
As the congratulations continued, Theodore decided it was his turn to claim Helen's attention, so, not waiting for any more interruptions he drew her by the arm, through the crowd.
They walked to Helen's gate, only making casual remarks about the graduating exercise just over. As they reached the gate their eyes met. Ted, as Helen called him, stopped. "Dearest," he said, "I am waiting for your answer."
"O Ted, don't be unreasonable! For us to get married now would spoil all the plans I have been making during the past four years. I have worked so hard for the scholarship and now to give it up as you desire is asking too much."
"Too much! Why Helen, you make me doubt your love for me! You weigh me in the balance with a scratch of paper! No, Helen, I am decided, it must be now or never."
"Ted, your reasoning is not sound, I only ask you to wait for one year."
"But Helen, that one year may change our lives. I want you to go with me to Ann Arbor. I need you. Come, sweetheart, do as I say."
Pale and trembling with suppressed emotion, Helen whispered, "Come tomorrow for your answer."
Ted watched her lovingly until she closed the door of her home. Then, gripping his hands determinedly he exclaimed, "She must not have a musical career! She is mine, all mine!"
II
The morning of the eventful day when Helen was to say the word, little in form, but great in meaning, gave promise of a happy ending. The sun shone warm and bright, birds chirped and bees lingered caressingly over the fragrant roses. Helen's mother, Mrs. Fairchild, also lingered over the roses, careful not to pluck the one occupied by the busy bee. When at last she had her hands full of the exquisite beauties, she arose, and smiling to herself entered the cozy living room. Arranging the flowers with her own loving hands she turned to the stairway and called, "O Helen!"
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE 251
In all the years of Helen's young life she had heard that same expectant call. "Coming, mother, coming!" was the usual response. What could be wrong? As no answer came the mother hastily ascended the steps and entered Helen's room. There all in a heap with her head buried in the cushions of a chair sat Helen weeping bitterly.
"Why Helen, girlie, what is wrong?" and she tenderly lifted the tousled head into the shelter of her own loving arms.
When Helen by force of will had calmed herself, she rehearsed to her mother the conversation of the previous day with Ted. "And now to think when I have just finished the work of graduation, I have another weighty problem such as this to solve."
Gently smoothing back Helen's hair, her mother assisted her to arise. "There," she said, "you can never decide a difficult question in the depths of despair. Sit on this chair. I will face you in this one, and together we will meet the giant.
"Now Helen, you answer my questions freely and frankly, then together we will deduct a conclusion. Which of the two very important events do you prefer, to make use of your scholarship, or to marry Theodore Farley?"
"Mother, I want to go East more than anything else right now!"
"Why are you so anxious about continuing your musical studies?"
"So that I can better express the emotion of my soul through the harmonies of music."
"Would this one year satisfy that desire?"
"Mother, I cannot say."
"Dearest, tell me truly, have you ever pictured being the wife of a loving man in a home of your own?"
"Why, of course I have, and I should certainly be unhappy to remain single all my life."
"Helen, do you love Theodore Farley?"
"Yes, mother, I do love him with all my soul."
"Then why do you hesitate to take that which is the most wonderful thing in all the world to a woman, the love of a worthy man?"
"It's the selfishness of his not wanting to wait that displeases me."
Helen's mother smiled knowingly and replied, "Man's love was ever thus. In the days of the cave man he did not wait for approval or disapproval, but took by force, if need be, the maiden of his choice. And then, besides, if you go with Ted to Ann Arbor you can in all probability continue your musical education."
"Why mother! I had not thought of that! O! I feel like a
252 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
mountain has been moved off my shoulders. There is the door bell! Mother, you go down and tell Ted I'll be there in a minute."
Helen moved with lighter step than she had done since the weighty question had been thrust upon her, humming in time with her hurried toilet, "Once in the dear, dead days beyond recall, hm, hm, hm,?So till the end, when life's dim shadows fall, Love will be found, the sweetest song of all."
Mrs. Fairchild greeted Ted cordially, and to Ted the shadows lifted as if the sun had just burst into view. Knowing Helen's independent nature, he had serious misgivings as the result of his insistent demands. Hope arose once more as he responded happily to Mrs. Fairchild's greeting, and together they talked over the charms of the beautiful Helen, a subject equally interesting to both.
As Helen came in, beaming and radiant, motherlike, Mrs. Fairchild became very urgently busy in the kitchen and excused herself.
"Helen, may I dare hope it is 'yes' for me?"
For answer she raised her lips for the proffered seal, his kiss.
"Two minds with but a single thought, two hearts that beat as one."
Theodore took his departure the happiest of men. When he returned in the evening until the hour grew late, together they planned. They were to be married the first of September, and then together they would climb, climb! Together? Happily? Forever? Time will tell.
III
The radiant Summer flew by full of exciting preparations for the event that would launch two more lives on the great sea of nuptial experience. When the marriage had taken place with the usual rounds of showers, receptions, presents, etc., the loving couple bade adieu to the home folks and started the journey of life together.
Arriving at Ann Arbor the engrossing interest was to find a furnished apartment built just for two. This satisfactorily done, the enrollment in the University of Michigan was accomplished in no easy manner. As Theodore bade his wife good-bye for the first time, the morning he left for school, a terrible feeling of sudden loneliness enveloped her until she could hardly restrain the impulse to run after him.
She must do something. She had discovered that Ann Arbor was not a music center, but she resolved to secure the service of the best vocal teacher obtainable. Ted was not enthusiastic about her doing this, so, to more thoroughly enjoy the results she planned to do it secretly and to give him the surprise of his life.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE 253
Her professor invited her a number of times to sing in entertainments, but she knew Ted's time could not be spared to accompany her so she declined. Besides, this would spoil the secret.
IV
Four years had gone by. Ted had led his class and was offered a position as a full fledged lawyer in the firm of Burke & Burke, the most noted firm in Michigan. Helen was so happy and proud of his success. She flitted around in their little apartment joyfully preparing for the evening when she would completely captivate her husband with the improvement in her voice.
Dressed in the blue dress he liked to see her in, because she was then his "modest bluebell," she met him at the door.
"Well, my little bluebell, how have you spent the day?"
Helen returned his playful greeting and led him in to where his lounging jacket and house-slippers were, when, with wifely devotion, she assisted him into them. Dinner over, Ted procured the newspaper straight away. Helen sat down at the piano softly thrumming to herself. She had been used to singing and practicing during hours of the day when Ted was not at home. But now that he had time to relax she hoped he would ask her to sing. No such invitation came. She bravely placed before her the song she had practiced so hopefully. The prelude was played so skillfully and with so much feeling that Ted had he been made of stone, must have responded. Involuntarily he listened while she poured her soul out to him in the song so well chosen:
"Deep in thine eyes, dear, Deep, O so deep! Down where the
love-lights So silently sleep. Is there a glimmer My glance has stirred? Is there a hope, dear, that I am preferred? Is there a spark that burns just for me? Is there a depth that I only can see? Is it my image you tenderly keep? Deep in thine eyes, dear, Deep, O so deep.
Deep in thine eyes, dear, Deep, O so deep! Down where your secrets you guardedly keep, I read the story that bids me hope on, Gives me the strength, dear, to wait for love's dawn,
254 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
It bids me still live for a love that is mine; It gives me a glimpse of a soul that's divine? All this I see where the soft shadows sleep. Deep in thine eyes, dear, Deep, O so deep!"
The song held him enraptured, but the demon whispered, "Crush the career idea," and he casually remarked, "A beautiful song, my dear, and very well sung." Then with the newspaper before his face he might have added, "But I'm very glad it is ended."
Helen arose, crushed and angry. Silently she left the room and retired for the night, but not to sleep. Cold and unresponsive she lay, she did not weep, something within her was dead. No, it was not her wounded pride! It was the cord of sympathetic companionship which binds two souls together, that was broken. And so it remained unmended through the weary years that followed.
Theodore felt and knew of his mistake. Instead of making amends he plunged headlong into his work, willing to wait for Helen "to creep as she used to creep into his heart." But Helen came not. She devoted herself to his comfort as before, but her love for him lay dormant, living, but not growing.
Four children, two boys and two girls, came to cheer and comfort them. They were one in their devotions to the children, but two in their attention to each other. Helen's only confidant to share the one sorrow of her life was her mother, through their correspondence. But even that balm was denied her soon, for her mother failed in health and died.
The children grew up and married. The two boys made their homes in Ann Arbor, Lucille, the oldest girl married a young man from Detroit and made her home there. Beth, their baby, inherited Helen's passionate love for music. She wanted to go to Boston to complete her musical education. Theodore Farley had prospered. He gave his family all the luxuries of the times. Gave them everything but himself. And yet he loved them. So Beth went to Boston on her parents' 30th wedding anniversary. Helen had tenderly told of her desire as a girl to do just what Beth was going to do, how she had given up that chance. "But now," she said, "my little girl, you may become what I dreamed of becoming and sing to me the songs I love."
Helen felt now as she did the first morning when Ted had left her to start his law course?alone! The days and months wore on, the bright spots marked by the letters from the children. As time wore on, Beth became more and more homesick. She wrote, "Mama, dear, I am having such a wonderful time. Only one thing more to make me happy if you and Papa were only here, Papa will not come, I know, but you can. O do come."
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE 255
When Helen read the letter to Theodore he only laughed and said, "As for me, if she wants to see me she will come where I am."
For two days Helen did her household duties listlessly. A storm was raging within her heart. Why submit any longer? She longed for Beth. There was no one left to care, so why not go to her?
Putting her resolve into action she called up the boys, Thomas and Fred, telling them she would join Beth for a while, asking that they would care for their father. When Theodore came home he found his jacket and slippers placed on the hearth for him, but where was Helen? The stillness oppressed him; he went to his room thinking that perhaps she had gone to visit the children. His eye fell on a note lying on his dresser. It read:
Dear Ted: I can stand this loneliness no longer. Beth needs and wants me, so I will go to her. What I do for you can easily be done by a servant. I will stop at Detroit to see Lucille. When you need me, let me know. Good-bye, Helen.
Theodore Farley was shocked. How could his gentle wife do such a cruel thing as to leave him alone! How should he know that Helen had been alone while he yet remained in the house? He paced the floor. He went from one room to the other until he had covered the whole house. Finally exhausted, he decided 'twas all right and shrugging his shoulders, with a don't care attitude he went to bed.
For hours he lay thinking. As he thought of how he had worked and planned and schemed to provide his home and family with the many comforts they enjoyed, his soul grew bitter. Had Helen seen and understood, nothing could have kept her from the bedside of her husband. All the starving of her heart for sympathetic companionship would have been forgotten. At last sleep came to his relief in partial forgetfulness. He moaned and sighed. He seemed to sink into chaos! When suddenly a mysterious personage rescued him and bade him follow! He was led through a gate and before his astonished gaze appeared a glorious scene. Flowers blooming, beautiful maidens dancing and singing. The balmy air so fragrant with the perfume of flowers seemed to lift his body and he moved without an effort. Suddenly he saw a group of women with crowns of pure, white flowers on their heads and heard them singing an anthem of praise. Helen, his Helen was there and seemed to be leading in the song! He rushed joyously to greet her but was restrained by his guide and led away. The scene of beauty vanished and he was led to a massive
256 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
building which glistened with the whiteness of snow. "This," said the guide, "is your future home." The inside of the building was made of silver with gold inlaid carvings. Look where he would, there was nothing to relieve the brightness and glitter. Horror-stricken he turned to the departing guide. "What! You would not leave me here alone in this monotonous glitter with nothing to do." The guide replied, "As ye sow, so shall ye reap. Thy life has been spent in heaping up thy treasure of gold and silver. Thou hast been blind to the beauties of nature, deaf to earth's melodies. Here, polish thy gold and silver," and he threw him a piece of soft chamois skin. Eagerly he seized the skin! With frenzied strength he rubbed and rubbed until his eyes pained with the brightness, his heart sank with the awful stillness. He grew weak and faint! With one mighty effort he called, "Helen! Helen, save me!"
The effort awoke him. The bright sunlight of morning was streaming in at his window. He jumped from the bed half dazed, but soon the realization came that it was only a dream. A dream which had its effect. "By George, I'm glad that was only a dream. If that's the kind of a cad I've been, no wonder Helen felt all alone." He read her note, "If you need me, let me know." Helen, his own darling wife, only thirty-eight miles away. With all the vigor of youth he donned his clothes, locked the door of his home, jumped into his car and sped along, his heart beating with joyful anticipation. Time was still theirs; he would make amends. She never again should feel that he did not need her.
In less than one hour he was ushered into Lucille's home by Helen herself. "Why Ted, are you hurt? What is the matter?"
"Helen, sweetheart, I am cured! See, I am here sound and well. Forgive me, dearest, for my neglect, my indifference to your endearing charms."
He folded her in his strong arms and the frozen fountain of her heart melted in tears of happiness.
"Helen, we will take the trip together to visit with Beth, where we will stay until Beth is relieved of her homesickness, and in the meantime we will visit New York and other art centers, and from now on we will hear all the melodies of earth and heaven combined.
"Then we will come home and start the New Year all over. From now on we work shoulder to shoulder."
"O Ted, you can never know how happy I am. I did so fear you would not come."
"So, till the end when life's dim shadows fall, Love will be found the sweetest song of all."
Garden Flowers for Decoration Day
By Philena Fletcher Homer, State Conservation Chairman Of Utah Federation of Women's Clubs
A flower for memory on the loved ones grave, a mass of bloom covering the bare earth, the fragrance of spring carrying the substance of our remembrance to spirits in heaven, only by the use of flowers can we carry out the real spirit of Decoration Day.
Just so far as this floral offering comes from us, just so much of ourselves as we put into it, so much we give to the memory of the departed.
As the day for decorating the graves draws near we usually feel a keen sense of the depth and beauty of this rite, and a desire to secure as abundant a tribute as possible, but where can we secure them? Our own garden is sadly lacking in flowers for this season, those from our neighbors already promised. Then it is that we turn to the hillsides. The children are sent out to bring in anything that they can find. Handful after handful are torn up until the little band are laden with all that they can carry and then they struggle home carrying the flowers in their warm hands, until by the time they arrive the flowers are wilted beyond freshening.
The wild flowers are so frail, so unsuitable for cut flowers that there are only a few varieties which will stay fresh even if they are kept in water all of the time, and the great majority of those picked in this manner are a total waste and are thrown away.
If this indiscriminate picking could be carried on under the supervision of some one who knew and loved flowers, who knew what varieties to pick and which to leave, who would not pull up by the roots the last Indian Paint-brush for rods and rods, who would not take the last bloom for seeding of some delicate flower, which left to itself, would flourish in the shade of the sagebrush and make the bare hillside a thing of beauty and surprise for those who walked thereon, it would not be a matter for serious concern.
With the increase of population most of our favorite wild flowers are disappearing. It is only a question of a very short time before the loveliest of them will be found only in inaccessible places.
Our home gardens should furnish us with the flowers for Decoration Day. Every garden should include some of the lovely varieties which come into bloom at this time and which are so much more suitable for the purpose than their fragile wild sisters.
Peonies, snowballs, and the wonderful varieties of iris are in bloom at this time and they are so hardy, so easy to raise once a start has been secured that there is no excuse for our yards to be without them.
Intellectual Requirements of Mormonism
By Thomas L. Martin?Professor of Agronomy, Brigham Young University
Of all people, the hardest workers intellectually, should be the Latter-day Saints. No matter what one's life's work may be, he should determine to study and to master it completely. The laws of the universe; physical, chemical, geological, biological, and human stand out as challenges to everyone who espouses the faith and accepts the "Mormon" philosophy of life.
The following extracts from the Doctrine and Covenants are of interest in this regard:
Section 93:11-18:
11. "And I, John, bear record that I beheld his glory, as the glory of the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth, even the Spirit of truth, which came and dwelt in the flesh, and among us.
12. "And I, John, saw that he received not of the fulness at the first, but received grace for grace:
13. "And he received not of the fulness at first, but continued from grace to grace, until he received a fulness."

16. "And I, John, bear record that he received a fulness of the glory of the Father;
17. "And he received all power, both in heaven and on earth, and the glory of the Father was with him, for he dwelt in him."
18. "And it shall come to pass, that if you are faithful you shall receive the fulness of the record of John."

Section 88:42-47:
42. "And again, verily I say unto you, he hath given a law unto all things by which they move in their times and their seasons;
43. "And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets;
44. "And they give light to each other in their times and in their seasons, in their minutes, in their hours, in their days, in their weeks, in their months, in their years?all these are one year with God, but not with man.
45. "The earth rolls upon her wings, and the sun giveth his light by day, and the moon giveth her light by night, and the stars also give their light, as they roll upon their wings in their glory, in the midst of the power of God.
46. "Unto what shall I liken these kingdoms that ye may understand?
REQUIREMENTS OF MORMONISM 259
47. "Behold, all these are kingdoms, and any man who hath seen any or the least of these, hath seen God moving in his majesty and power."
Section 88:78-79:
78. "Teach ye diligently, and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand;
79. "Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of nations, and the judgments which are on the land and a knowledge also of countries and kingdoms."

Section 88:117-122:
117. "Therefore, verily I say unto you, my friends, call your solemn assembly, as I have commanded you;
118. "And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study, and also by faith.
119. "Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God."

122. "Appoint among yourselves a teacher, and let not all be spokesman at once; but let one speak at a time, and let all listen unto his sayings, that when all have spoken that all may be edified of all, and that every man may have an equal privilege."
We believe that: The earth and the fulness thereof belongs to man, under the supremacy of God, and that he, in his great strivings to understand the earth, will redeem himself and become a perfect creature with the Lord.
Brigham Young said, "Every time we master nature, we master a knowledge of the laws of God;" also, "that man progresses as he makes the earth subservient to his need."
What is to be gathered from such statements? Simply this: At no time should one be intellectually lazy, but should learn to understand the world about him. The farmer should leave no stone unturned that would help him in his subjection of the earth. He should be a constant reader of farm periodicals, an ardent advocate of farmers' roundups, of high school agricultural meetings; a close associate of the county agent, university agricultural instructors, and high school teachers of agriculture. He must understand the science of farming as well as the art, if he would subdue the earth.
260 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The business man should study his vocation scientifically, and eliminate the "hit and miss" process. The psychology of salesmanship should be his concern. Periodicals that pertain to his line of thought should adorn his library table and be used by him.
The school teacher should be one who never drifts along the line of least resistance. The understanding of his daily charges must be his constant concern. How best to bring about the normal development of the boys and girls under his care must be his uppermost thought, and this should find him improving his mind through a constant attendance at institutions and conventions whose sole purpose is that of improving the teacher for his all-important work.
The housewife should look on her work as a profession. Any opportunity that is hers to improve the home, should be grasped. The physiology of eating, dietetics, better methods of rearing children, home beautification, decoration, cooking, anything that will raise the standard of living in that home, should be her pride.
All people, no matter what their life's work, should concern themselves with general problems. They should understand, or at least study, the wonderful beauties of nature. The rocks, the minerals, the agencies of decomposition, the soil formed from them, the nature of the soil, the relationship between the soil and plant, how plants grow, the trees, kind and function of each, even the birds, the insects and the flowers, should all and severally be given their share of attention. As far as possible one should be a student of men and the laws that govern their associations. The laws of the group-mind, understood and applied, will do much to make one a leader of men. Affairs in our nation and in other nations should receive a share of one's time. The advice given by the prophet Joseph Smith is that all Latter-day Saints should study the wars and perplexities of nations.
True, one wonders how he shall find time to do all this; but if one budgets his time, it is surprising how much can be accomplished. The men who are doing things in this world are the ones who budget their time. There is a time for everything, and if a person will attempt to systematize his daily and weekly hours and minutes he will be surprised with the results.
Every "Mormon" household should think seriously of the questions above presented. If we attain the ideal hoped for by every Latter-day Saint, we must study. We must learn to understand the earth and all of its complexities. How can we govern worlds unless we understand them? God will not tell us everything that we can find out for ourselves. If we do not learn it in this life, we must in the next, if we hope to progress.
REQUIREMENTS OF MORMONISM 261
Let us seek knowledge wherever it is to be found. Let us bring into our homes magazines of our Church, and in addition, the periodicals of our profession, together with those pieces of literature which have to do with the world at large. Let us become the most intellectually active people on earth.
If we do this, and also live in accordance with the religious requirements of our Church, we shall be happy, comforted, possessed with vision to see the transcendant beauties of life of which we have never before dreamed.
Of Interest to Women
Lalene H. Hart
I have several household appliances which I enjoy using, but how can I keep the copper finishes bright without scouring?
There is no satisfactory short cut to keeping copper in good condition. The simplest thing to use is a metal polish, or an acid and salt. If the latter treatment is used the metal should be carefully rinsed with clean water and dried. An extra brightness may be obtained by then rubbing with rottenstone and oil. Never use a harsh abrasive for cleaning polished metals. If the copper parts of appliances are lacquered they may be kept in good condition by wiping with a cloth dipped in kerosene. Brass may be treated the same as copper.
To keep paint from drying after the can has been opened cover with a sheet of waxed paper and pour melted paraffin over it. The paint will keep indefinitely and the paper and wax are easily removed when desired.
Scrim curtains that get dingy and dirty looking, or borders that have faded, dye with a soap dye a little darker shade, or any shade that matches the color scheme of the room.
A small board such as a bread or cake board, covered with oilcloth laid on or near the stove while cooking, is a great convenience on which to lay small utensils such as spoons, knives, forks, etc. It is best to glue the oilcloth to the board.
Instead of buying jars or cans for storing groceries use the cylindrical cartons in which cereals are put up. Cover this with plain paper left from papering a room. Paste labels on, then varnish, being careful to press edges of paper so they will not curl. These receptacles are light, easily handled and readily cleaned.
I have better results when making cake icings if I use a little white karo syrup in place of cream of tartar or vinegar. It may be used in candies also?Mrs. G. A. S. Douglas, Arizona
People who use barley coffee in a percolator complain of it boiling over. This will not happen if a piece of butter the size of
262 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a pea is added to the boiling water. Stir the grounds often in the cup at the top of the pot, as the grounds fill the hole. This causes it to run out from under the lid.?Mrs. E. P., Ogden, Utah.
To have lemon or cream pies that are perfectly shaped and are baked evenly, bake the crust on the outside of the pie plate upside-down.?Mrs. J. W. S., Ogden, Utah.
I have found when buying new pillows or washing the ticks of old ones, that a cover should be made to protect the tick from any substance that discolors or stains them. These covers can be made from ordinary pillow cases only place buttons at the open end to completely cover the pillow. No matter how clean the coverings and the rest of the bed may be if the pillow ticks underneath are soiled or unprotected it gives a feeling of uncleanliness. These covers can be washed as often as necessary for sanitation.?Mrs. M. R. M., Salt Lake City, Utah.
To clean the stove pipe and chimney flue of soot burn a piece of an old automobile tire about the size of an ordinary stick of wood used as fuel in the range. Open all draughts and you will be surprised at the cleanliness of the flue. This should not be done while cooking because the heat is too intense.?Mrs. E. B., St. George, Utah.
To My Mother
By Camilla W. Judd
You are sitting by the fire, Dear, sweet mother of mine, And your heart sings like the lyre, In your love of life divine; The firelight glows and dances, As it shines upon your face, That is fairer than a lily, And lovely in its grace.
Upon your brow of splendor, Shines your hair of silver gray; And your eyes have grown more tender, As the years have passed away; Years of love and pain and gladness, Years of service, kindly given, And your dear strong heart grows lighter As you climb the steps to heaven.
May God comfort you, and bless you, And guard you for all time, That your days may all be happy, Oh, gentle mother mine.
Notes from the Field
By Amy Brown Lyman
SUMMER WORK
North Sanpete Stake. Following is the summer program introduced in this stake in 1925, and which was successfully carried out. It was prepared by the stake board.
July 7?Summer Work to Begin. Program?Health Lesson Plan a preliminary program to correlate with lesson.
1. Text: "Feeding the Family," by Rose, Chapt. 6.
2. Relief Society Magazine, March number, article "Infant Feeding," by Jean Cox, or a lecture from doctor, nurse, or nutrition specialist on the subject of the text.
July 14. Work and Business Meeting.
July 21, or Friday, July 24?Pioneer Celebration. Cooperate with Daughters of Pioneers. Pioneers and aged as honored guests. Program: Song?"Come, come ye Saints." Prayer. Quartette?"Utah, We Love Thee," or "Utah, the Queen of the West," or "This is the Place." Address?By a daughter of the pioneers. Instrumental selection?Old Melodies. Reading. Address. History of the Mormon Battalion including the planning of the monument and laying of the corner stone in their honor, April 6, 1925. Duet?"God Bless our Mountain Home." Prayer.
Plan interesting recreational activities and luncheon after program. Cooperate with recreational committee. Arrange for Transportation of old people, special seating, and ushers. Reception committee.
July 28. Open.
August 4. Health Lesson.
1. Health pageant.
2. Text: Feeding the Family, by Rose, Chapter 7.
August 11. Work and Business Meeting.
August 18. Home Problem Day. Preliminary Program:
1. Fifteen minute talk?"Modern Problems of Dress."
264 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
2. Fifteen minute talk?"Interior Decoration."
3. Fifteen minute talk?"Cheaper Cuts of Meat and Their Preparation."
August 25. Open Meeting. Suggestions for Open Days:
1. Visiting shut-ins.
2. Visiting infirmary.
3. Special work meetings.
4. Musical programs, (Utah Composers.)
5. Temple excursions.
6. Auto outings for aged.
Other ideas you wish to work out.
Emery Stake. During the Summer of 1925, while no Relief Society Meetings were being held in Emery stake, a very successful stake Relief Society conference was held. A stake outing was also indulged in, the invited guests being the husbands, sons and daughters of the Relief Society members. The Relief Society members furnished the refreshments and had charge of the program and games; most of the wards in the stake were represented, and a very enjoyable day spent.
The Local Relief Societies followed the example of the stake officers, as will be seen by the following note sent by the secretary of the Emery Relief Society to the stake board.
The Emery Ward Relief Society entertained their husbands on August 18, 1925. Several times during the season they had enjoyed themselves with the Young Ladies and felt that before regular lessons were taken up again, husbands and wives would enjoy an outing together, leaving the children to do the chores that evening. They left town about five o'clock P. M. in wagons, buggies and cars; drove out four or five miles to a place where there were plenty of trees and willows and a nice stream of running water. Each member had provided a spring chicken, green corn, potatoes, bread, butter, etc. The husbands built camp-fires and took charge of the cooking, while the women made all necessary preparations for supper and the entertainment that would follow. Eighty-two persons partook of the delicious supper; after which the Relief Society Entertainment Committee presented the pageant of "The Three Bears," for which bear masks and fur costumes had been provided. The moonlight, camp-fires, willows, and crude furnishings of the bear house made effective scenery and it was very real and entertaining. An impromptu program followed, after which all returned to their homes about ten P. M., delighted with the evening's entertainment.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 265
The Emery stake Relief Society Officers held Visiting Teachers Conventions in the form of pageants in the six larger wards during October, which it was felt were very successful; the first one was held at Cleveland the Saturday evening of the quarterly conference which was being held there. Each teacher in the stake was presented with a badge which consisted of a white ribbon containing the following words printed in yellow: "R. S. Teacher, Emery Stake." Following the convention all the local R. S. Presidents reported an increased attendance at Work and Business Meeting. One president said it seemed impossible for them to get more than from twenty-five to thirty in attendance before the convention, and at the Work and Business Meeting following the pageant they had seventy in attendance, 100% visits made by visiting teachers and all teachers there personally to make their reports.
All the women of the stake held two very enjoyable joint sessions January 23, 1926, during the Priesthood convention, the program was carried out as outlined, and a good spirit prevailed. There were one hundred and ninety women in attendance.
Snowflake Stake.
Aims of Stake Board for the Year
1. Our aims for more service to the ward organizations. A. To send a representative to Salt Lake to General Relief Society conference. B. To visit wards as often as necessary. C. To keep in close touch with wards through frequent correspondence. D. To keep in touch with the General Relief Society Board and the Priesthood. E. To take up maternity welfare work.
2. Our aims for more efficient work in the wards. A. To work for the development of more spirituality among the officers. B. To increase the membership, especially among young mothers. C. To obtain more efficient teachers' work with 100% visiting, 100% preparation of monthly topics, 100% attendance of teachers at Work and Business meetings. D. To have 100% of the wards holding officers' meeting at least twice each month. E. To have every ward represented at every Union meeting throughout the year that the officers may get inspiration for the following month's work. F. To follow the Work and Business meetings as outlined.
266 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
G. To have 100% of the enrolled members contesting in the Summer's reading in each society.
H. To collect 100% annual dues and temple donation collected in on time.
I. To keep the record book up to date in every particular.
J. To make the lesson work more efficient.
I. Theology: To have a special aim in each lesson and to have it so presented and prepared that it will carry over into each woman's daily life, thus helping her to live a higher, nobler life.
II. Literary: Every class leader to be thoroughly familiar with the author studied. Several class members to be assigned special parts in each lesson. The lesson to be so presented that it will inspire every woman to a higher standard in her home reading and that of her family.
III. Social Service: The lessons to be so presented that they will carry over into the lives of our women, helping to make more perfect Latter-day Saint homes and better communities. The purpose of our leaders in giving these lessons to be made clear, and made an ideal toward which all should work.
IV. The ward officers are asked to check up on these aims at the end of each month and to make a thorough check on them with the stake board quarterly at Union meeting.
Following are copies of outlines of reports used by stake board members in their visits to ward Relief Society meetings. Reports when filled out are carefully preserved for reference.
Logan Stake.
Report of Visit by Board Member, 1925
Ward Visited................... Date of Visit.................
Was Prayer Meeting Held?................... Number at Prayer Meeting: Officers............ Supervisors............
Business Discussed at Prayer Meeting.......................
Lesson Treated ..................................................
Supervisor .......................................................
Was Lesson Well Presented?.....................................
Class Activities ................................................
Total Attendance................................................
Remarks: ........................................................
Visited by.......................................................
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 267
Deseret Stake.
Deseret Stake Relief Society Visiting Report......Ward.
Date..................1924
General order of meeting..................
Punctuality.............
Singing and music..... Was it appropriate?...................
Did air of meeting show forethought and preparation on part of officers..................
Class Work
General interest of class leaders...........................
General interest of members................................
Was lesson well prepared and presented?....................
Was discussion profitable?.................................
Attendance
President................... Secretary........................
1st. Counselor.............. Organist.........................
2nd. Counselor.............. Chorister........................
Visiting teachers........... Stake Board Members.............
Members .................... Visitors.........................
Total Present...............................................
Does harmony exist amongst ward officers?..................
Do officers make members and visitors feel welcome?........
Stake officer's message....................................
Remarks and suggestions....................................
ORGANIZATION AND REORGANIZATION
Eastern States Mission. A Relief Society was recently organized in Washington D. C. For a number of years mission and general officers of the organization had hoped for a society to be established in our national capital, and news of the organization gave joy and great satisfaction to the General Board. There are many capable and efficient women members of the Church in Washington, and there is no doubt that this branch will very soon be a flourishing society. On February 13, 1926, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts?wife of President B. H. Roberts of the Eastern States mission?and Miss Luella B. Owen?President of the Relief Society of the mission?went from New York to Washington and perfected the organization. Following are the officers and class leaders: President, Mrs. Don B. Colton; Counselors, Mrs. Wm. H. King and Mrs. Ernest Wilkinson; Secretary-Treasurer, Miss Elizabeth Stewart; Assistant, Mrs. Mark Lewis; Theology teacher, Mrs. Clara Jarvis; Literary teacher, Mrs. Amy L. Merrill; Social Service teacher, Mrs. Lois Meldrum.
268 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Alpine Stake. On January 24th the Alpine stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Annie C. Hindley, who has for years stood at the head of the organization was honorably released on account of change of residence, and Mrs. Eliza Buckwalter was appointed to succeed her. Mrs. Hindley has given freely of her time and talents in the Relief Society cause for many years, and her stake has always been among the leaders in our federation. Other officers appointed were: Counselors, Mrs. Harriet M. Webb, Mrs. Edith Grant Young; Secretary-Treasurer, Mrs. Mary E. Abel.
Oneida Stake. Mrs. Nellie P. Head, who has served capably and faithfully for a number of years as president of the Oneida stake Relief Society, resigned her position on February 14 and was honorably released. Mrs. Amy C. Ballif was appointed president, with Mrs. Mary W. Condie and Mrs. Hattie J. Greaves as counselors.
South Sanpete Stake. On February 21, 1926, the South Sanpete stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Hannah Christenson was honorably released and Mrs. Mary B. Noyes was named president. Other officers appointed were: Counselors?Mrs. Sarah O. Hansen and Mrs. Clara M. Anderson; Secretary-Treasurer, Mrs. Blenda M. Dahl. Mrs. Christenson has been an untiring and devoted leader and worker, and has endeared herself to all the women of her stake.
Millard Stake. The Millard stake Relief Society was reorganized November 28, 1925. Mrs. Susan Thompson and her board were honorably released with deep appreciation for their faithful service. The following new officers were appointed: President, Mrs. Hattie Partridge; Counselors, Mrs. Josephine Stephenson and Mrs. Harriet E. Kenney; Secretary-Treasurer, Louie B. Day.
Uintah Stake. Mrs. Permelia E. Batty was honorably released as president of the Relief Society of the Uintah stake on January 31, 1926, after a period of useful and willing service. On account of the failing health of her husband it was necessary for her to give up the work. Mrs. Elnora Vernon was sustained as her successor, with Mrs. Minnie J. Davis and Mrs. Agnes E. Calder as counselors.
Relief Society Annual Report
For the Year 1925
Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
FINANCIAL ACCOUNT
Cash Receipts
Balance on hand January 1, 1925:
Charity Fund $ 29,914.24
General Fund 102,795.52
Wheat Fund 23,585.26
Total Balance $156,295.02
Donations Received During 1925

Charitv Fund $ 89,342.42
General Fund 111,603.02
Annual Membership Dues for General
Board 1,1,086.01
Annual Dues for Stake Boards 10,100.49
Received in Wheat Trust Fund 2,267.39
Other Receipts 67,903.50
Total Donations 2;2,302.83
Total Balances on hand and
Receipts $448,597.85
Cash Disbursements
Paid for Charitable Purposes 100,055.56
Paid for General Purposes 120,677.00
Wheat Fund Sent to Presiding
Bishop's Office 9,432.15
Paid General Board Membership
Dues 11,591.08
Paid Stake Boards Stake Dues '. 12,201.93
Paid for Other Purposes 34,635.13
Total Disbursements 288,592.85
Balance on Hand December 31, 1925:
Charity Fund 28,685.59
General Fund 113,017.32
Wheat Fund 18,302.09
Tctal Balances on Hand 160,005.00
Total Disbursements and Balances
on Hand $448,597.85
$448,597.85 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Assets
Balance on Hand December 31, 1925:
All Funds $160,005.00
Wheat Fund at Presiding Bishops'
Office 388,362.88
Other Invested Funds 86,113.15
Value of Real Estate and Buildings. . 217,158,26
Value of Furniture and Fixtures . . . 42,632.81
Other Assets 22,494.65
Total Assets $916,766.75
Liabilities
Indebtedness 1 ,269.73
Balance Net Assets 915,497.02
Total Liabilities and Net Assets $916,766.75
STATISTICS
Membership
January 1, 1925 :
Executive and Special Officers 9,647
Visiting Teachers .18,948
Members 30,843
Total Enrolled 59,438
Admitted to Membership During Year .... 8,756
Total Membership During Year 68,194
December 31, 1925:
Executive and Special Officers 10,131
Visiting Teachers 19,136
Members 31,799
Total or Present Membership 61,066
Removed or Resigned 6,51
1
Died 617
Total Membership During Year 68,194
The Total Membership Includes :
General Officers and Board Members 20
Stake Officers and Board Members 1,026
ACTIVITIES
Number of Meetings held 55,126
Average Attendance at Meetings 23,729
Number Relief Society Organizations M63
Number L. D. S. Families in Stakes 96,778
Number L. D. S. Women, Non-members, Eligible for Membership. . 25,030
Number Relief Society Magazines taken?.23,176 RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT 271 Number Executive Officers Taking Relief Society Magazine 5,326
Number Visits to Wards by Stake Relief Society Officers 5,128
Number Visits Made by Relief Society Visiting Teachers 643,657
Days Spent with Sick 49,300
Special Visits to Sick and Homebound 178,885
Number Families Helped 13,754
Bodies Prepared for Burial 2,360
Number Days Spent in Temple Work . . . 119,566 COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
1923: Paid for charitable purposes $97,846.31. Total membership 55,973. Relief Society Organizations 1,356. Relief Society Magazine 23,829. Days with sick 53,126. Special visits to sick and homebound 160,614. Families helped 10,960. Stake officer visits to wards 5,027. Visiting teacher visits 568,667. Days in temple work 96,107.
1924: Paid for charitable purposes $100,453.51. Total membership 59,272. Relief Society Organizations 1,486. Relief Society Magazine 23,678. Days with sick 52,445. Special visits to sick and homebound 366,155. Families helped 12,281. Stake officer visits to wards 5,144. Visiting teacher visits 592,559. Days in temple work 114,160.
1925: Paid for charitable purposes $100,055.56. Total membership 61,066. Relief Society Organizations 1,463. Relief Society Magazine 23,176. Days with sick 49,300. Special visits to sick and homebound 178,885. Families helped 13,754. Stake officer visits to wards 5,128. Visiting teacher visits 643,657. Days in temple work 119,566.
PRESENT MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Stakes: Arizona 2,018. California 804. Canada 1,295. Colorado 407. Idaho 2,892. Mexico 188. Nevada 910. Oregon 225. Utah 39,496. Wyoming 855. Total Stakes 49,500.
Missions: Australia 71. Canada 121. Europe 5,979. Hawaii 959. Mexico 148. New Zealand 471. Samoa 250. South Africa 42. Tahiti 238. Tonga 119. United States 3,168. Total Missions 11,566.
Total Membership Stakes and Missions 61,066. Leisure Time for What? By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education The old adage that man works from sun to sun and that woman's work is never done is not believed as fervently as it has been. Modern appliances as well as big business has removed much of the drudgery from the home. The electric washer in one hour will do what a pair of hands and a washboard required eight hours to do, It is not customary for women in towns to spend many hours doing the family washing. The electric or other power washer has released women from approximately one-half to three-fourths of the drudgery of washing. Commercial and cooperative laundries have perfected laundry processes to such an extent that injury to fabric is much less than it was some years ago. Wet wash and flat rate prices are so small that many families feel that it does not pay to invest money in laundry equipment. From careful studies much less per hour is earned by the housekeeper on flat pieces than on shirts, lingerie, linens, etc. Some interesting studies have been under the direction of homemaking departments which indicate that a good wage is earned by the women in the home in doing piece work for the family. This study also brought out the information that more women are doing laundry in the home within recent years. Some housekeepers claim that clothing and household linens last only half as long when sent to the laundry as when done at home. When this is true, laundry costs should include part of the clothing costs. Modern equipment such as electric irons and mangles have shortened the time and expense of ironing. Women generally estimate that a good electric iron compared with a stove iron saves half the time required for ironing. Owners of electric mangles feel that the time is cut down fully 65 per cent. The cost of mangling is little if any more than with the electric iron. This piece of equipment is probably not as generally used as it should be where the family is large and the size of the family will not decrease very rapidly. Ironing is much less a bugbear than when fashion dictates required yards of ruffles on petticoats as well as elaborate trimming of lace and insertion on all lingerie. The costume slip of today can be easily ironed in five minutes, while the elaborate petticoat and corset cover of fifteen years ago would require from twenty-five to forty minutes. Not only is there less material in the different pieces of underwear but manufacturers have made such attractive, easily laundered fabrics that cambrics, longcloths, LEISURE TIME FOR WHAT? 273 bleaches and nainsooks which require so much time to iron are no longer used. The present sensible straight line styles require less than half the material that was used during the ruffle and flare period. While underwear is made from better material, the total cost is less because the amount required is only half as much as formerly. What holds true of laundry holds true to some extent of baking. Even in isolated communities fairly good bakers' bread is obtainable. The increased cost of fuel and food supplies has made it unprofitable for the small family to do much home baking. Where the family numbers four or more, careful studies show that the housewife can save a considerable margin in doing the family baking. Many housekeepers, it is true, feel that their own product is superior to what they can buy. One housekeeper figures that she either saves 50c or else can call it wages for every baking of rolls and, eight loaves of bread. The quality of the product has much to do in determining its value. Cake or pastry of poor quality sells for only about one-fourth or one-half of what quality bakers ask for their wares. In the latter case if the housewife can make a product of good quality her time has a distinct value. Home baking, however, is less time consuming than formerly because of the many labor saving devices. The time element is important if it is remembered that eggs have been beaten with a three-tined fork and cake mixed in a flat bottomed milk pan. The ketter egg beaters today, however, beat eggs in one to two minutes, while the sloping mixing bowls make possible the mixing of cake, quick bread, or pastry in comparatively little time. Bread and cake mixers have also decreased the time required. The increased use of electricity, gas or oil has also contributed to cutting down the time requirement for food preparation. Makers of recipes have also cooperated in eliminating time waste. Shorter cuts in food preparation have been standardized with a considerable saving of time. Steam cooked and finely divided cereals have decreased the time for breakfast preparation. The use of canned vegetables, fish, etc., have cut down on the time requirement for meals. Ready prepared spices, flavoring, leavening agents and seasoning have also shortened the time required for food preparation. The more general use of paints, varnish, wax and polishes in the average home has decreased the drudgery of housekeeping processes. The cleaning and upkeep of hardwood, painted and varnished, or linoleum covered floors are less time consuming than for unfinished surfaces. Cleaning devices, such as vacuums, mops and specially prepared cleaning cloths have cut down the time allotment in daily, weekly and monthly cleaning. 274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE semi-annual house cleaning is much less arduous than formerly. Standards of sanitation in connection with cleaning are higher as the aim is to keep the house in a sanitary condition, practically all cleaning processes are carried on successfully with much less labor than formerly. The generally accepted work of the professional cleaners has also eliminated much of the drudgery of the annual wall and rug cleaning and floor polishing. All these devices have given more leisure time for the woman in the home. The popularity of ready-to-wear clothing has eliminated much of the home sewing problem. Present styles owe part of their popularity to the fact that they can be made quickly on power machines. The making of straight dresses requires only a few minutes longer than making a blouse. The women whose dressmaking ability is limited will probably be better satisfied with ready-to-wear purchases. Where the home seamstress has skill in her fingers she can very often make a $30.00 garment for $15.00. Careful selection of styles easily made, yet attractive, will often make it possible to make a good wage in doing this kind of family sewing. The importance of big business in terms of power machinery is greater in the making of underwear, house dresses and home furnishing than in the more expensive articles of clothing. Careful studies have shown that it does not pay to make some pieces of children's underwear and some play clothing. Very often the saving is more apparent than real however, for ready-to-wear articles are often sold of poorer materials than the average housewife would buy and make. Then, too, some stores run specials of some articles and mark up others. Careful discrimination of auality of yardage and ready-to-wear will help the housewife to determine what is real economy for her to buy. If every housewife kept account of cost of material, time required for making, and then compared value with a ready-to-wear garment she could estimate the value of her time in making the garment. Where stores are large enough to have semi-annual white sales there is frequently little saving in making sheets and pillow slips from yardage material. This tendency to decreased centralization of rather recent home activities has afforded additional freedom to the homemaker. While some extra time is very much worth while, there is also danger that too much leisure is not desirable. The right use of leisure training for different leisure activities. Another important factor to be considered is that in most cases leisure demands expenditure of money. With the wellto-do family this may not be a very serious question, although the study of budgets show that people having $10,000 a year LEISURE TIME FOR WHAT? 275 income have as much difficulty in living within their budget as does the family of $1,800 a year. In one case the wants are more numerous and individual expenses are greater. With all of these cooperating agencies to decrease the time required for various homemaking and housekeeping processes, the women in the home have much less time consuming work to do. With all these helps, clothes are cleaner, bouses better kept, clothes in better condition than formerly. The question relative to the spirit of the home i is not so easily settled. It is generally conceded that some activity within the home helps to tie the family together. The empty house is not much of a home when children return from school. Neither does the house devoid of too many of the home activities carry with it the appeal that a reasonable amount of home business demands. Then, too, there is a definite educational value in terms of teaching service that results where the home has regular responsibilities. While social and educational agencies offer many opportunities of training for leisure, such as increased reading of books and magazines, participating in various kinds of social service, there are increasing demands on the family income for many large and small expenditures. There are very few forms of amusement, recreation or education which do not pile up expenditures. The woman freed from household labor has time to attend club or lectures or class. New wants result from the wider point of view. The need may be a new book, material to make the lampshade, or a more elaborate standard of dress. Accepting invitations to other homes for entertainment demand expense of entertaining within her own. Social and educational demands outside the home have a tendency to increase the number of social engagements, at certain seasons of the year disproportionally to the needs of the homemaker. As a result it becomes increasingly difficult to confine expenditures within the family income. In every system of home accounts there are certain fixed expenses. Every month a certain amount must be paid for shelter, a rather definite amount must be spent for food if the health of the family is to be safeguarded. Some expenditures must be made for clothing if the family are to maintain their self-respect. ' Demands are also made for religion, upkeep, education, recreation, incidental expenses, service, etc. The individual with an increasing amount of leisure should budget tunds so as not to spend a disproportionate amount for recreation or amusement. Pleasures as well as other living expenses 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are becoming increasingly expensive. Wages are not increasing proportionately. If the family is to have economic stability the funds must be spent according to an accepted plan. Many housewives have not discriminated between record of expenditures and plan of spending. Both accounts and budgets are necessary for economic stability. Each is mutually dependent upon the other. Without accounts a satisfactory budget can not be worked out; without intelligent spending and a record thereof the budget cannot be shaped and fashioned to meet the needs of the individual family. Without this record and plan for spending, the family, with an increasing amount of leisure among its members, cannot spend indiscriminately for pleasure without accumulating bills or limiting vital necessities. The leisure must be planned for and expenditures must be kept within the budget if the extra leisure is going to contribute to the general well being of the individual or family. Household accounting and budgeting show conclusively that money has only a limited purchasing power. If money is spent unwisely, fewer wants and needs will be satisfied. In order to make leisure profitable it must be worked for and planned for. Too much leisure on the part of the homemaker may be disastrous to the family well being. Leisure to be effective must be carefully planned for, and the homemaker fortunate enough to have hours for self development must make the most of the opportunity so that health, happiness and financial resources will not suffer from thoughtless overdrawing of funds. Too little leisure is worse than too much. Lack of recreation is apt to make the individual self-centered and inconsiderate. When this condition exists it is often failure to paln the daily duties so that the homemaker can get away from her responsibilities. Lack of leisure results most frequently from lack of head work rather than hand work. There is failure to determine relative values with the desire to eliminate nonessentials. Leisure is needed for health, happiness and various satisfactions that come with the well ordered life. Teachers' Topic for July HOME TALKS Patriotism The true patriot is the man who upholds the laws of his country by obeying them. "Let no man break the laws of the land for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land." Doc and Cov., Sec. 28:21. We believe in being subjects to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and Pein the ine ?12th Article of Faith. 1. Our obligations as citizens of our country. 1. In obeying the law. 2. In assisting in law enforcement. II. The present danger to our country of disregard for law. 1. Encourages disrespect for all authority. 2. Protection of person and property in danger, etc. III. Respect due the flag of our country. 1. Not hoisted before sunrise nor Jeft up after sunset. 2. When the colors pass on parade or review, spectators if walking, should halt; if sitting, should arise, stand at attention and salute, a man; by removing his hat and holding it at the left shoulder; a woman, by placing the right hand over the heart. Bee Hive girls may render the right-hand salute. 3. No flag should be placed above or to the right of the flag of the United States. When flags of two or more nations are displayed, they should be flown from separate staffs at the same height and they should be approximately the same size. (International usage forbids the display of the flag of one nation above that of another in time of peace.) 4, The flag should never be allowed to touch the ground or floor or trail in the water. 5. Never place the flag for draping or festoons, use bunting with blue always at the top. 6. Never drape flag over chairs or benches, place it above the speaker when used in a hall or building. 7. Never strike or drive nails into the flag. 8. Never use it as a part of a costume. 9. Never place any other object above it. 10. The flag when not flown from a staff should be displayed flat. When hung against a wall the union should be uppermost and at the flag's right; that is, to the observer's left. 11. Itis unlawful to use the flag as a trade mark. 12. It must not be used as advertising matter of any inal 13. When used on envelopes it should. Be placed on the back 278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the envelope so that it will not be defaced when the letter is cancelled. 14. It should be displayed from a staff if possible. 15. When a number of flags are grouped and displayed from staffs, the flag of the United States is placed in the center and at the highest point. 16. When displayed from a staff projecting horizontally or at an angle from a window, balcony or front of building, the union of the Flag should go to the head of the staff. If other flags are displayed at windows the flag of the United States should be at the extreme right, i. E. The observer's left if he is in the street. 17. When hung where both sides are equally visible, where people pass in both directions, it should 'be suspended vertically, with the union to the north or east according to the direction of the hall or street. 18. Remember: Either to the north, the north star, or the east, where come the stars; the Flag's own right; and that it is a living symbol. 19, The flag is never dipped to persons or things. Other colors, state, or organization will always render this honor to the Flag of the United States. 20. When displayed in a window the union should be to the left of the observer, the union should be uppermost and at the flag's own right. "And never until you and I, and the citizens of this nation. Who believe in decency and uprightness and law, unite and demand that law be enforced, and demand that righteousness be done in government: never until that time comes, I say, will America really be able to say to all kinds of injustice and oppression, 'Stand Still Forever'." Wasatch 2624 We specialize in all branches of laundry work Let us relieve you of the worries of washday Royal LAUNDRY Quality Laundry SALT LAKE CITY 625 State Street f, Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone? Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. m.?5 p.m. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 23 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah ?? HERE IS HIGHPOWERED CLEANING HELP FREE World's largest selling vacuum cleaner sent to your home for free use. $8.50 set of attachments FREE with each cleaner purchased. So. State Sold by Utah Power & Light Co. Wasatch 500 "Ed. H." Eardley Electric C. Fl." Eardley Electric Co. EVERYTHING FOR ELECTRICITY WE DESIGN AND MANUFACTURE DISTINCTIVE LIGHTING FIXTURES DO ELECTRIAL CONSTRUCTION SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine cad LG 364 South State Street ', Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co, Wasatch 6486  LET THE Deseret News Policy Protect You Accidents Happen Every Day TRAVEL AND PEDESTRIAN ACCIDENT INSURANCE You can't tell her that you can't afford this: It only costs one dollar for one year, costs so little, protection so great. If you walk across the street, ride in autos, travel on trains, ride in street cars, go to theatres or church, you need this policy. Write us today and let us tell you more about it. Phone Wasatch 550 or call at our office. Che Deseret News SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH THE RELIABLE 1069 EAST 21st SOUTH 