Vol. XIII APRIL, 1926 No. 4
CONTENTS
"Suffer Little Children to Come Unto Me": Frontispiece Nursery Rhymes.................................Ivy Houtz Woolley 171 Portrait of the late Presidency of the Primary Association 172 The Mushroom...................................Ivy Houtz Woolley 173 Portrait of the present Presidency of the Primary Association 174 Evan Stephens..................................Annie Wells Cannon 175 C. Nelson White 183 Illustrating and Story-Writing for Children.......C. Nelson White 186 Editorial—The Children's Hour 191 Helping the Primary Association................................. 191 For the Sake of the Children................................... 192 The Courage of Children........................................ 193 What is Being Done for our Children................Annie D. Palmer 195 The Last Page of Amy Lowell's Keats..............Annie Pike Greenwood 200 Amy Brown Lyman 201 206
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
Quarter Carat Diamond in a Genuine Orange Blossom Engagement Ring —Wedding Ring to Match— Other Prices $75 and $100
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
BOYD PARK BLDG. 166 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY-UTAH
GO VIA SAN FRANCISCO LOS ANGELES AND RETURN, IT COSTS NO MORE TO SEE ALL OF CALIFORNIA IN ONE COMPLETE TRIP $59.50
Southern Pacific Lines THREE TRAINS DAILY FROM SALT LAKE CITY AND OGDEN PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARE FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY.
For Complete Information, Tickets and Reservations, Call Phone or Write. P. BANCROFT, General Agent. 41 South Main Street. Wasatch 3008 Wasatch 3078.
For our success we are indebted to our friends
Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 65 West First South
Call Your Nearest ICE CREAM CANDY CAKE PUNCHES
Our 30c or deliciously different, 50c Special Phone Wasatch 3223 Brick
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask your dealer for the famous Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made
Mountaineer Overalls For men, youths, boys and children 9-oz. Copper Riveted Waist Overalls For men and boys. Wear 'em and let 'er buck
Guaranteed For Quality, Fit and Service
Allovers and Play Suits For Children
Utah's Home Milk
The wonderfully rich pastures of Beautiful Cache Valley make every condition perfectly ideal for the dairies from which we daily collect this pure, rich cow's milk, Evaporated to the consistency of cream and scientifically sterilized.
BUILDING LOANS At advantageous interest rates. Build a Better Home We'll Finance You
Ashton-Jenkins Co. 32 Main Street Wasatch 123. Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Mother's Day Booklet
What to give mother on Mother's Day? We've solved that for you beautifully in a new souvenir booklet that will soon be off the press. Write at once for complete information and prices.
Deseret Book Company
We Have Trained Many of the Successful Business Men and Women of the West.
LET US TRAIN YOU OR YOURS
Up-to-date progressive methods; comfortable, fully-equipped buildings, a faculty select and efficient.
L. D. S. Business College "Service, Not Profits" Salt Lake City, Utah
The ACE of Suction THE Complete VACUUM CLEANER
You save at least $10 by buying the new, improved Apex, the complete vacuum cleaner. Why? Because, at $57.50, the new low price, you get the latest model Apex with complete equipment for home cleaning included. And with the equipment comes the new, patented Apex Swivel Extension, a labor-saving feature, exclusively Apex. No extras to buy. The new, improved Apex is a complete home cleaning unit at a money saving price.
FREE HOME DEMONSTRATION Phone Was. 354
INTERMOUNTAIN ELECTRIC CO. 44-69 East 4th South SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Dealers Wanted
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
TEACHER WORK EMPHASIZED!
The splendid summer school program as outlined by the UNIVERSITY OF UTAH will include
THE LATEST FEATURES OF EDUCATION AS APPLIED TO THE NEEDS OF THE STATE SCHOOL SYSTEM
THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH is setting the pace in the latest developments in educational work. Some of America's greatest educators will be identified with the faculty during the summer session.
THE UNIVERSITY STANDS FOR CHARACTER, SCHOLARSHIP, AND PROFESSIONAL IDEALS
First Term: June 9 to July 21 Second Term: July 22 to Aug. 28
Write for Announcements
University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY
BETTER REFRIGERATION HEALTH
Pure, wholesome foods, kept fresh and pure, is not a luxury but a practical necessity—a matter of health protection. Up-to-date, progressive tradesmen are providing this with "Lipman Full—Automatic Refrigerating Equipment"
—A SIZE FOR EVERY NEED
AUTOMATIC REFRIGERATION CO. W. A. RITCHIE, Manager No. 64 Post Office Place - Phone Wasatch 7379 Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
OUR GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT!
A RIB KNIT L. D. S. GARMENT Guaranteed One Full Season for $1.15
Order No. 66 Light weight......$1.15
Other Cutler Values: No. 68 Flat weave lt. Wt......... .94 No. 74 Light wt. Combed yarn 1.65 No. 64 Medium weight.............. 1.65 No. 62 Med. Heavy weight....+ 1.85 No. 61 Med. Heavy unbleached with double back........ 1.85
Please state whether for men or women—new or old style Postage Prepaid in U. S.
Pure, delicious milk, pasteurized and delivered by us daily in sterilized bottles, is indeed a drink and a food fit for a king.
159 West 1st South. Was. 2177, Salt Lake City
Take Young Samson's tip and Pay Cash
YOUR FLOWER GARDEN
This is the month to plant perennial plants, Roses, Shrubs, Ornamental Trees, Flowering Bulbs. Gardening success is assured with our Tested Seeds and Reliable Trees and Shrubs.
Get Free Catalog
PORTER-WALTON CO. 42 W. 1st So.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Salt Lake City
THE Relief Society Magazine

Vol. XIII APRIL, 1926 No. 4
Nursery Rhymes By Ivy Houtz Woolley
A buttercup sat all alone in the grass, Wishing that something or someone would pass, Along came old Boss on her way out to sup, So she reached out and ate the poor buttercup up.

Gamble little lambs, In sunny grassy places, But lambies do not step into The snowy daisies' faces.

A little rock rolled down the hill, He went to look around, Instead, he rolled into a brook, And there he quickly drowned.

A bantam rooster crowed and crowed, From night until the morn, He said, "I am the finest chick, That to the world was born."
And then he toppled off the fence, And broke his leg, that day. He goes about on crutches now, And says, "Conceit don't pay."
President, Louie B. Felt and her Counselors, May Anderson and Clara W. Beebe, who, for many years, have devoted their lives to enriching the lives of children, as the presiding officers of the Primary Association of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
The Mushroom By Ivy Houtz Woolley
Six mushrooms came out To feel the cool rain, They never will come out To do that again, For Madge came along, When six mushrooms she took, On a very fast trip Right home to the cook? She made such good sauce. On each rainy day She brings in her cousins On the same day.
President May Anderson and her Counselors, Mrs. Sadie Grant Pack, and Mrs. Isabelle Salmon Ross, to whom the responsibility of the Primary Association has come in the "ampler day" That now opens for children.
Evan Stephens The Children's Musical Friend By Annie Wells Cannon
At an evening party given after the rendition of The Messiah, on New Years day, 1926, a well known musician and conductor made the following remark: "The people of Utah do not, I think, begin to realize the wonderful musical opportunities that have long been theirs. I do not know another community anywhere in America, where so many fine voices can be brought together and so easily trained for choral singing, and they have Evan Stephens largely to thank for it. His long years of service in training children's choruses, in his early advocacy of, and instruction in, part-singing created among the children a taste for good music and a talent for interpretation?in other words a musical comprehension, which as the years have passed has naturally persisted and been transmitted from one generation to another."
The ancient, quaint and music loving land of Wales was the birthplace of Evan Stephens. A straw-thatched cottage, nestled midst the trees among the softly rising hills was his boyhood home. From the sweet crooning of his mother's lullabys he learned the beauty of song, but little knew how deep within his child-
176 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ish soul its light was hidden. Yet from earliest recollection music was with him a passion?truly a flame within, which would not be quenched. When a lad of twelve he came with his parents to America; and in the mountain gathering place of the people of his faith, he found in northern Utah a home. His surroundings here were perhaps not as romantic or historic as the old birthplace in Wales; but there was not lacking that humbleness of environment which somehow almost always seems to react kindly upon the spark of genius, causing it to blaze forth the more brightly through adversity. So, in the little town of Willard the boy's musical career had its beginning, when he became, though a mere child, a member of the ward choir, invited to join by one of those rare leaders who was able to recognize in the shy little immigrant something out of the ordinary. This choir was soon increased by the addition of other boys, and then young girls; and before long it became a children's chorus of forty members, with young Evan Stephens its director! The boy had discovered himself.
Quietly and diligently he began to gather such information and instruction as his meager opportunities afforded. Singing classes were organized for which he wrote songs, choruses, and operettas. These were produced in the "home town," wherefore Willard began to be recognized as having something unusual in a musical way. Moreover, almost all choir singing and choruses hitherto had been rendered with one-part singing. Stephens from the first would not tolerate that; he always built up strong alto parts, thus placing the sense of harmony almost above that of melody, and producing a most harmonious effect. This policy also tended to prove that in this little country village music was being not only beautifully but correctly interpreted. That "a man's gift maketh room for him and bringeth him before great men" soon was verified in the life of Evan Stephens, for in due time he moved from Willard to Logan, where there were larger opportunities for work in his chosen art. He had now been discovered by others, and the toilsome task of trying to make the work he loved secondary to that of making a living, seemed about to pass. The opportunity to follow the line of his choice exclusively appeared to be opening before him. Children's classes began to be counted by the hundred members, and children's concerts and other performances were frequently given. After about three years in Logan, his fame as an instructor and director having in the meantime come to the attention of a number of influential people, it was obvious that the capital and largest city of the state was the logical place for his future activities, and hence he came to Salt Lake City.
EVAN STEPHENS 177
Here the membership of his children's choruses grew rapidly into the thousands. The first class organized in Salt Lake City consisted of twenty members under fourteen years of age, selected from each Sunday school in the city, and taught free of charge. This was in March, 1882, and the class was held in the old Council House, the present site of the Deseret News building. These children gave a concert in the Salt Lake Theatre the following August, which created a genuine sensation, owing, the leader thought then and thinks now, to the excellent part-singing as well as to the mutual love and cooperation that had immediately been evidenced between the conductor and his pupils. By the end of this year he had organized in Salt Lake City three large juvenile classes, two adult classes and a fine glee club, added to, the following year, by an afternoon and night class in Ogden of over 500 children, besides an adult class. His services were also called for by the State University, where he had a class of the normal students, and then followed classes of children in the wards adjacent to the city, the movement at length spreading as far south as Springville, with hundreds of children under the Stephens training in all the intervening settlements. It is not easy to comprehend how he could divide or apportion his time so as to cover so large a field and to keep such multiplying appointments. But manage it he did, and thousands of men and women today are proud to refer to the time when they took vocal training under this beloved instructor.
But this intensive labor of teaching was only a part of Evan Stephens' activities. As the work went on, combined choruses from time to time gave interesting and delightful concerts in the large Tabernacle and other halls and churches. He instituted a series of May festivals in which his different classes took part, and to which came singers of wide renown. One of these festivals lasted an entire week, and during this time the various nations of the earth were represented, the children singing the different national songs, dressed in costume. The great artists, Emma Thursby and Myron W. Whitney were among those who came to join the children in these unique festivals, and they expressed high admiration for the Utah leader's achievement.
After four years in this line of work, Professor Stephens, realizing that up to this time he was almost entirely self-taught, decided to go east for instruction. He desired principally to acquire a wider knowledge in composition, to satisfy himself as to just where he stood as a musician and composer, and also for a careful review of voice training and orchestration, counter-point, etc. He chose the New England Conservatory of Music, considered then as now the leading institution of the kind in this country. He was received very kindly, and almost at once took
178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a prominent place among the leading figures of the institution. After a year's study he was offered a position with generous remuneration; but nothing was any temptation to this loyal son of the West, who was ever anxious to hasten home to his people and the thousands of children awaiting him. While at the Conservatory he entered one of the contests for composition, and submitted music written by him to the words of a song which Aunt Em Wells had given him, concealing, however, the name of the author. This song was awarded the prize as the best; and the master, in holding up the sheet of music before the three hundred or more pupils, asked the author of the piece to raise his hand. Then he added: "It has been stated that America has no distinctive school of music. If we had more such work as this, and plenty of it, we could refute that accusation."
When Professor Stephens returned home, he was sorely disappointed to find the Tabernacle closed, owing to the radical enforcement of certain laws involving the possession or confiscation of Church property. Consequently most of his musical efforts at this time were bestowed in the district schools among the children, while the adult classes grew into an opera company and choral society, which later became the enlarged Tabernacle choir of over five hundred voices.
Many chapters might be written of Professor Stephens' musical work among his people, but this article aims to discuss mostly his labors among the children. It is not at all irrelevant, however, to say right here that during his work as conductor of the Tabernacle choir, more than a hundred concerts in combination with great artists under his direction were produced, and through his efforts and influence the people of Utah have had the glorious privilege of hearing such world famed artists as Nordica, Gadski, Patti, Eames, Calve, Rosenthal, Paderewski, and a galaxy of others, not forgetting the great bands of Gilmore, Sousa and other instrumental organizations. During the years that he served as conductor of the famous choir, he traveled with them to the larger cities of the United States, east and west, where the organization and its gifted leader received the highest encomiums. It is a piece of well known history that he took his singers to the World's Fair, in 1893, where, in addition to giving concerts, they entered the great Eisteddfod; and while the Utah choir was awarded only second prize, it remains to their high credit that they were only beaten by an organization which was not a regular chorus or choir at all, but composed of artists selected especially for the occasion. Not the least of his causes of pardonable pride in his choir was the democratic arrangement of the personnel, not having prominent places for the best voices, but rather dis-
A CHOIR OF CHILDREN TRAINED BY EVAN STEPHENS
180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tributing them among the lesser lights, thus giving balance and strength to every part. In looking back upon his record, undoubtedly Professor Stephens' vast work in training voices will be regarded as his greatest achievement, though this of course does not at first appear in such a tangible or concrete form as his musical productions. Of his compositions, the state song, "Utah We Love Thee" is perhaps the most familiar; but the Sunday School Song Book and the L. D. S. Psalmody contain many precious and oft-sung numbers that are very dear to the hearts of the people, while "True to the Faith," "Our Mountain Home," and many others, where he wrote both words and music, show his poetic as well as his musical talent. His choral work is naturally more pretentious and inspiring, and for that he has chosen themes of Church history which make a wonderful appeal. "The Vision" is full of melody and in his own opinion his best work, though "The Martyrs" is doubtless more dramatic. These two inspirational productions have not only been given in all parts of this and adjoining states, but they have been rendered many times in other places, even in foreign lands. Their words have been translated into the German language and they have been rendered several times in Germany, even in that land of music most excellent having been received with high approbation. In this connection it is to be mentioned with regret that perhaps most of Professor Stephens' best compositions, and not a few of his choicest songs, have not been printed, but when rendered are sung from the written manuscript.
During the thirty years or more that he led the magnificent choir of the great Tabernacle, Professor Stephens saw the children of his early choruses grow to manhood and womanhood, and he watched their course in life with tender affection. He has seen beloved pupils with voices of promise, develop into the finest tenor, baritone, bass, soprano, and contralto soloists, and become great artists among their people. No father could be prouder than he is of their success; and now, in the evening of his life, taking his well earned recreation and ease, he enjoys the contentment and happiness of a charming home, which with all its surroundings he himself designed and created, taking as much pleasure in planting trees and shrubs and watching a barren spot change into a place of beauty as he ever did in cultivating a voice or constructing an operetta. Amid these delightful surroundings he is still working at his chosen calling. A home-setting most picturesque, where fountains play and flowers bloom, where, under the snow almost any time, one can find along the boxwood hedges, snowdrops transplanted from the old Welsh home, and blue-eyed violets that hide in shaded corners; where in the mir-
EVAN STEPHENS' HOME
182 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
rored lakes speckled trout play hide and seek under the beautiful beds of white water lilies. In summer time the place is all aglow with color and perfume?a spot of tangled loveliness that could scarcely fail to have a charm for any one, and would certainly be an inspiration to a lover of poetry and song. Evan Stephens knows fully that "Every good gift, and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights;" and to his heavenly Father is he ever grateful for the message of the restoration of the gospel that came to his dear parents, and for the opening of the way for them to come to this far western land to dwell with the Saints of God. For these blessings he has given praise and thanks in word and deed his whole life long?always sincere, always true, always grateful to his Maker for every blessing and opportunity. In his life's work he has shown a full realization of the truth of the beautiful proverb: "A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it; whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth."
Sevenels, Amy Lowell's Home
Yet when one drove up to the fine portal of Sevenels, in the green gloom of a summer evening, it was never to dine with the cousin of James Russell Lowell, or with the sister of the President of Harvard University, or, if one were a friend, to pay tribute to a celebrity. When the smiling Timothy had opened the door of the car and rung the polished silver bell, and one had entered that vast antlered hall, and sat down in the formal drawing room where flowers and paintings bloomed in a soft light, it was always with the sense that this was the abode of an artist. A spirit that transcended the luxury and formality that the eye declared brooded over the scene. It was a zestful spirit, spontaneous, vitalizing, and suddenly it took shape in a voice. A voice high pitched in timbre as the roof it emerged from, sonorously hallooing, summoning one up two flights of stairs to share the mystery of the bedchamber.?Elizabeth Shepley Sergeant, New Republic.
C. NELSON WHITE
C. Nelson White
We are introducing to our readers, in this issue, Mr. C. Nelson White, who is the illustrator of The Children's Friend, the official organ of the Primary Association. Few things delight children more than a picture book or magazine that is well illustrated, consequently the man who can enter children's lives with interesting colorful pictures has an open sesame to their love. It is a great pleasure to introduce Mr. White to the members of our organization and to publish from him an article that has to do with making pictures for children. Mr. C. Nelson White was born in Odder, Denmark, July 21, 1893. Although his father was of the working class, he gave his son a good education which included a college course. Neither the parents nor the boy knew that he was gifted as an illustrator until he was 13 years of age, when an old house painter came to live in a little cottage at the back of his father's home. In order to qualify, this painter had been required to go to Switzerland and other countries and make sketches. The moment the boy saw
184 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the painter making sketches, his imagination was set on fire, and he also wanted to paint. The old man noting the eagerness of the boy gave him his cast-off brushes and prevailed on his father to buy him some paints. His first drawing, a pen-and-ink sketch was made at the age of 13. It was published in a little eight-page magazine in Denmark called The Children's Friend. When the boy mailed it he wondered if he would get half a crown for it, an amount equivalent to about ten cents, consequently he was very much surprised when his purchasers sent him ten crowns the equivalent of $2.50 in American money. While in school he had a teacher who recognized that he was gifted, and for that reason allowed him to draw whatever he wished to draw.
NELSON WHITE'S FIRST SKETCH
This teacher also gave evidence of an abundance of common sense by permitting the boy to draw during the music period as he did not care for music, but was very keen about drawing. Meantime he was obtaining his education which included five years of English for six days a week. A few months before quitting school he accepted a position with the publishing house that put out The Children's Friend and while his work was not confined to any special branch he did make humorous drawings for children.
While a lad in his teens, he came in contact with the "Mor-
NELSON WHITE 185
mon" elders who taught him the gospel of Jesus Christ. On his 19th birthday anniversary, in 1912, he was baptized by Elder George Sanders, of Salt Lake City. Elder Martin Christopherson, now president of the Norwegian mission, was one of the elders who assisted him in learning the gospel. His parents were so greatly opposed to his joining the Church that they forced him to leave home. He left his native land in the month of June, 1914, arriving in Salt Lake City, just prior to the outbreak of the world war. In 1915, he married Anna Jenson. They have one son, Raymond, who was taken to Denmark last summer and baptized in the place where his father was baptized. When Mr. White first reached the state he was an advertising artist for the Giles Engraving Company. Today he is one of the partners of the Howell-White Advertising Illustrators Company. There are four persons conducting the work of this firm at the present time, which is the leading firm of its type in Salt Lake City. For four years Mr. White has been the illustrator for The Children's Friend. He is responsible for the attractive colorful pages of the magazine. Yet his talent is not confined to our Utah publications; for, since 1923 he has been doing work for the Ladies' Home Journal. In 1924 he made humorous drawings for the Saturday Evening Post. McCall's Magazine solicited him as a regular staff artist, but his trip to Denmark in the summer of 1925 interfered with his accepting the position. However, he does special work for both the Ladies Home Journal and McCall's Magazine at the present time. He has had many letters commenting on the excellence of his work. Not long ago a wealthy man living in Rhode Island, sent an order for two drawings to be placed in his private art collection.
A Baby's Hand
A rosy dawn's glow on the pure white of snow,? What lovelier sight in the land? Wouldst see it? Quite simple; for, caught with a dimple, 'Tis found in a baby's soft hand.
Firm trust, whate'er fall, in the goodness of all, An undying faith by love fanned,? These virtues so rare, you always find there, Embodied in baby's small hand.
The riches of kings, careers of all things,? Fulfilment of all God has planned; Our own ship of State;?yes, the world and its fate May be held in a baby's wee hand. ?Jean Jarvis Berbet.
Illustrating and Story-Writing for Children By C. Nelson White Perusing the innumerable weekly and monthly magazines professing to be written for, and covering the tastes of all the members of the average American family, one cannot help but notice the paucity of material available for the youngest minds. Now and then a woman's magazine makes a half-: hearted attempt of devoting a page a month to the interests of child readers, but more often this attempt dies again after a few months of the most precarious existence. More "necessary" articles, more "pressing matters" always seem to crowd it out of the paper sooner or later. Altogether too often children are left to get what amusement they may out of the pages of the many "colored supplements" and "comic strips" of the daily papers 'This is a really deplorable condition, for their vulgar jests and degrading situations certainly exercise no good influence over the child mind. The average intelligent adult might dismiss these things with a shrug, and think no'more about them, but for the child mind, soft and pliable and plastic, many of these situations leave a deeper impression than parents realize. When analyzed for their moral value, or lack of it, rowdyism and thieving, cruelty and deceit, are but a few of the more common subjects for the majority of these strips, which seem to run the gamut of ail the more debasing things in life. Therefore the pressing need of today is an attempt to give the children an education along worthwhile lines, served in such a manner as to be both wholesome and entertaining. Good illustrations are quite a deciding factor in arousing the interests of children. One of the most outstanding characteristics of the child reader, and this applies to the well grown youngster, too, is his hunger for illustrations. This is not indicative of lack of intelligence, on the contrary it is a grasp for something to develop his experience. Dealers in books for children testify, that not only do children select books by, appraising their interest through the pictures, but that adults will run through the illustrations, decide whether the story "looks interesting," and thus determine the purchase. On the shoulders of the illustrator, therefore, lies much of the burden for the acquisition of a book. Good pictures mean joy to the child heart, and many a worthwhile book has been enhanced a hundredfold through the artist's gift of interpreting the thoughts of the text. The ILLUSTRATING AND STORY WRITING 187 mission of joy has never been fully preached, but we know that joy works toward physical health, mental brightness, and moral strength. Joy is the most important mission in art for children. 'Through the pictures the little ones march right into the story. Pictures cultivate their imagination. Like an older brother or sister an illustration takes the youngsters by the hand and leads them into a land where delightiul surprises greet them at every turn. It takes the children into a realm of vicarious living more elemental and more fancy-free than the perfected dramas of sophisticated adults. It takes the objects, which little boys and girls know vividly, and personifies them so that instinctive hopes and fears may play, and be disciplined. Cooperation and unity in text and picture?when they are artful for adaptations of life and form?grip the imagination of little folks. 'The question arises, "Must we not cultivate the child's imagination?" Truly, the child?limited in experience?loves to come in contact with the things he knows about, and yet nothing more quickly brings a smile than a surprise. The most important thing, therefore, in children's stories is perhaps the artful blending of the more common, everyday happenings with education, elevating thoughts, and to do it in such a manner that the impression lasts. The desire for the unknown, that ever present curiosity, is the charm of childhood that creates many delightful hours, and pictures and stories of the right type have a wonderful mission to perform. With such friends the children journey to Fairyland; by some they are introduced to heroes who have fought and served for what is right and beautiful; some take them to strange lands, and show them how life goes with other peoples; some carry the children's hearts along with their inspired hearts into sacred places, and the children grow great in their own thoughts after these journeys. Children's emotions are easily aroused, and on the shoulders of authors and artists lies the responsibility of guiding them into the right channels. In every reaction which the child has for distress or humor in the tale, he deposits another layer of vicarious experience, which sets his character more firmly into the mold of right or wrong attitude. Every sympathy, every aversion helps to set the impulsive currents of his life, and to give direction to his personality. We cannot omit the adventures of the Land of Make-Believe from our educational program. They are too well adapted to restless, active, and unrestrained life of childhood. "Why special training in story-writing for children?" is a question frequently asked. Behind the inquiry may lie either of two prevalent views. One theory holds that any 188 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE person, though he lack the training, experience, and skill! Necessary for adult writing, is able to write for children; the other, that anyone who knows enough for adults can, therefore, with equal ease, write for children?and the same viewpoints are accepted when it comes to illustrations. The result of the two theories appear in the output of juvenile literature. Those who do not know enough to write for adults produce a good deal of literature for children. Those who can write for adults, with some notable exceptions, remain in that field through lack of interest in juvenile work, or through realization of their inability to handle it. Writing for children then becomes a problem in itself which cannot be solved by made-over adult technique. A child is not an adult undersized physically and mentally. He is a complete human being who, on his way from childhood to maturity, has certain special needs different from those of an adult. These needs reach over into his reading as elsewhere, and only the person who understands them can make adequate response. Consciously or unconsciously a child increases his experience every time he opens a book or a magazine. He realizes, in an indefinite sort of way, that he can touch the world in only one spot at a time, and in his eagerness, to find out more about it the turns to reading. This may end in day-dreams and the acquisition of a set of false standards, or it may have some definite, lasting value. Since this is true, the book which gives the child experience outside of his personal limits should be carefully scrutinized in the making and in the using. The answer then to the inquiry about the necessity for special technique in writing for children lies in the psychology of the children themselves. To meet them on their own ground we must approach them as equals, not as adults writing down to them. We must know their kind of dialogue, their demands upon action and climax, their sorts of humor, pathos, sentiment. We must know how to capture their interest and how to hold it. Above all, we must know their possibilities and use them. Their limitations have long been the basis of their fiction. What a wonderful mission for adults with the true spirit of childhood in their hearts. They alone can arouse the interest of the young, and lead them to an appreciation of all that is true and beautiful, away from the truly deplorable avalanche of bad, degrading reading, far too easily accessible for them, towards an appreciation for one's inner self, and to a realization that one's mind-and-heart is, and always should be, a place sacred to clean thoughts and clean deeds? a true "Temple of God." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS -President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT: First Counselor MRS, LOUISE YATES ROBISON: - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN::: General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxte Mrs, (Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mr. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Editor -  Clarissa Smith WILLIAMS Associate Editor. -.. - - Alice Louise REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XIII APRIL, '1926 ' No. 4 EDITORIAL The Children's Hour Miss Frances Jenkins, who was one of the special lecturers at the U. E. A. Last season, said in substance that the well known phrase in the Declaration of Independence stating, we hold these truths to be self evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalineable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, meant men in the days of 'Abraham Lincoln. Since the passage of the 19th amendment, it has included women, and now it is slowly but surely extending to children. Neither in home nor in school are children subjected to the severe discipline that they once faced. In school, children are not compelled as much as formerly to sit quietly without ever daring to move unless with the permission of the teacher. They have their work to do and if their work requires that they shall leave their seats and go to a sand-tabl?e or go to a book case and look for material in books or magazines, they are at liberty to do it. If perchance, they want to cook or mold or paint, they may 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE talk about where they can find the material and the most convenient place to do it. A school-room that is deathly silent is not regarded as the best type of school-room today; but rather the school-room where one hears the hum of business on every hand.: What is true of the school in the matter of severe discipline, is also true of the home. Children are the little people of the home, and they are not, as a rule, kept under the strict discipline of former days. The adage that children should be seen and not heard is not so popular as it once was. Parents realize that too much suppression may result in overly timid children and overly timid adults. Recently, the state of Utah has been visited by Mr. Louis Untermeyer, the poet, who says that his best book, from his point of view, was written as a result of an interview he had with a group of children in the kindergarten. They told him that the stories in the Mother Goose Rhymes were good, but ought to be written over and brought up to date, and so Mr. Untermeyer set about to do this work. This is the children's hour and there are many agencies at work whose sole purpose is to see that children have a square deal in this world. Most people are acquainted with the term "under-privileged children." There are many people seeking to overcome the handicap that these under-privileged little people are working under. If they are infants, there are organizations that are interested in supplying them with milk; if they are malnourished, schools and other agencies seek in every way, possible to supply the needed food. If they have physical disabilities, then community nurses, school nurses and clinics and physicians, cooperate for their need. Much effort is put forth to make little people happy little people. They are given pictures that delight their eyes, and they are taught songs that they love to sing, they are told stories to which they delight to listen, and after they have the story in mind their teachers permit them to dramatize these stories, a thing that appeals to the heart of the child. There is evidence on many sides that this great, big, beautiful world of ours, is not a man's world nor a woman's world, nor even a child's world, but a world where all may live together in joy and comfort, not threatened by the dire diseases of the past, nor the isolation that resulted from the impossibility of overcoming distance, nor by the darkness of the night. In health and comfort the people of the civilized centers of the earth meet together, the children partakers of what is good for them, and the adults reveling in the glory of poetry, music, art, science, and above all else to many is the joy of reveling in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. EDITORIAL 191 Helping the Primary Association The Primary Association touches the lives of practically 100,000 children. Through the Welfare Department of the Relief Society, children's lives are seen and approached from many angles; thus a vast amount of material is accumulated in relation to children which is helpful information for any group interested in children, consequently it works out that a Welfare Department like that connected with the Relief Society carries on a good deal of research work, while an organization such as the 'Primary Association takes the material furnished by the Social Worker and puts it into practical working. The Social Worker meets the world with the challenge that every child is entitled to a normal home life, which means, to quote one of our well known workers, "That the child should be physically sound, and that he should have apportunity for education, for recreation, for vocational preparation for life, and for moral and spiritual development." The Primary worker is interested in all these phases of child development and regards the Primary organization as one of the laboratories where the Relief Society worker may see fulfilment. As evidence of what we have said in relation to the Primary seeking to support the needs of the normal life of the child, we quote Badge Test No. 1 from their excellent little book called Trail-Builders: 1. Name some of the characteristics of the pine tree. 2. Give the meaning of the Trail-builder's salute. 3. Recite two scripture passages. 4. Draw or cut free-hand the 'Trail-builder's emblem. 5. What should a Trail-builder do when the "Star Spangled Banner" or "America" is played? 6. Give reasons why you should keep nails clean and cut; teeth clean, and breathe through the nose. 7. Black a pair of shoes and fold your clothes neatly. 8. Give the names of your Primary president, your bishop, your stake president, the president of the Church. 9. Give the names of six domestic animals and state the purpose for which they are used. 10. Produce a satisfactory article or toy made by yourself in woodcraft. 11. Know how to play "Johnny Ride the Pony," or "Skin the Goat." 12. Run a fifty yard dash in eight seconds. 13. Be able to chin or draw yourself up in good form. 14. Turn a cart wheel. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE _ Note: Require 12 of the 14. This test entitles the Trailbuilder to a badge. A glance at this test will go to prove that the Primary Association is seeking the all-round development of the child or, as the Primary worker sometimes puts it, the development of the head, the heart, and the hand of the child. The mothers of these children are in many instances members of the Relief Society, and they are not infrequently. Officers and teachers in the Primary Association. The assigned activity card of the Trail-builder must be approved and signed by teachers or parents, thus it becomes very clear that parents do know a good deal about the work of the Primary Association, and that they must recognize that its work harmonizes with the lessons on the physical problems of childhood, that they are studying, particularly this year, and other studies of past years that relate to child-care and the proper rearing and developing of children. No cry is more insistent than the cry of the philosopher, the statesman, and the teacher, that the future of this great world depends on the children who will be the future citizens of the world. Perhaps never before in the history of the world have children and youths as frequently turned to their forefathers and said, in substance, we are crippled spiritually by our environment; but we are not responsible for our environment which is slowly dragging us down. Surely parents and teachers and promoters of child-welfare in all the phases of life are looking confidently forward to the time when children, tracing the history of the past, will rise and call blessed those who have gone before them, because of the advantages of their birth and the wonder of their environment. This is one of the laudable accomplishments that both the Primary Association and Relief Society look forward to ?surely they can cooperate for so noble an end. For the Sake of the Children Many years ago Charlotte Perkins Gilman pointed out that homes are built for adults and not for children. She said all the pictures in the house, all the curtains and the furniture are the things that appeal to the adult, and rarely do we find anything that is for the child. She urged nurseries where the child's viewpoint and tastes might be considered. What she and others did was to stimulate thought along this line, until now we are making progress.. EDITORIAL 193 It is quite the fashion in homes today to see the children's bed-rooms decorated in a way that appeals to the child, the little figures on the curtains, the chairs, and sometimes the dresser, have been purchased with the child in mind, rather than that of the adult. Children's clothes; the baby rompers, the little aprons and dresses are frequently decorated with all sorts of figures that please children, and the result is certainly gratifying. We know of firms where a staff artist is employed for the sole purpose of drafting suitable and pleasing clothes for children. For many years toy shops have catered to children, but everybody who has kept abreast with the make of toys, knows that many things have come into vogue that have added materially to the child's accumulation. Surely no one has ever watched a baby go around the room on a kiddie-kar without breathing a blessing on that individual who first conceived the kiddie-kar. Children's books and magazines have come in for their share of attention. Asa result we have an unusual number of beautiful books and magazines whose pictures gladden the eyes and hearts of children all over the civilized world. In former days it was the books of grownups that were made beautiful with rich colors and gold and silver, now a vast number of artists are at work seeking to make beautiful books for children. The Courage of Children James Mathew Barrie, the British playwright, exalts courage above other virtues in his plays. It has been said that his heroes all have courage, but that his villains are without it. A story from the recent snow-slide at Bingham reveals this quality in children. From a young man who had been in the disaster, and a nurse who had rendered assistance we learned the following story on the evening of the terrible catastrophe. Many of our readers know that the two little Van Newland children, one a girl of about four, the other a boy of two and onehalf years, were partly pinned down and partly protected by bath-room furnishings. It is said that before their rescuers could get to them they could hear the little girl saying to the little boy, "Don't cry, they are digging for us." And when they were finally uncovered the little fellow had his thumb in his mouth, taking such comfort as that would afford, while the little sister, forgetful of herself, was saying, "There, I told you not to cry, I told you they would dig us out." These little children whose feet were frozen were taken care of and soon made warm and comfortable. They were soon to 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE learn that their mother and the little babe had perished. But the courage that they showed in this critical hour will do much towards carrying them on through life. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Member of Relief Committee Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, was appointed by Governor Dern a member of the Bingham Relief Committee. The committee is made up of men, Mrs. Lyman being the sole exception. It is very gratifying to an organization; such as the Relief Society, that stands for trained social workers and expert welfare work, to know that the matter of administering relief to those who suffered loss of life and property, in the Bingham snow-slide, has been placed in the hands of the Red Cross, a group trained in social work and trained in taking care of disasters. Amy Lowell It is not an accident that the two human beings who most profoundly influenced Amy Lowell's artistic and human destiny? Eleanora Duse and Ada Russell, the devoted and charming friend, now her literary executor, whose advent at Sevenels marked the turn of her career?belonged both to the stage. The poet might, she often said, have been an actress herself, or a playwright. One of her publishers attributed to her the "publicity sense," not of a generation but of a century. In any case she had a genius for catching the public eye, quite as marked as her gifts as a writer.?Elizabeth Shepley Sergeant, New Repubic. What is Being Done for our Children By Annie D. Palmer Come to me, oh ye children, For I hear you at your play, And the questions that perplexed me Have vanished quite away. Ye are better than all the ballads That ever were sung or said; For ye are the living poems And all the rest are dead. ?Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. This is the children's hour. Today is the children's day. Recently, the entire time of a ward sacrament meeting was given over to a Primary conference. The chapel was packed to capacity. A child of six offered prayer. Little folks who lisped Dutch, and others whose broken dialect was Danish, took part on the program along with those who spoke our English plainly. There was halting and forgetting on the part of some, and original pronouncing on the part of others. But the officers were pleased and the audience praised the conference. It was not an unusual event. There are wards many, throughout the Church, in which a sacrament meeting each year is given over to the Primary.? The first grade class room in a Church training school was crowded with visitors. The teacher was to demonstrate the presentation of new material on a religious subject. According to custom, she asked if some one would volunteer to offer prayer. The visitors looked at the frightened children, the children looked at the throng of strange grown-ups. No one volunteered. The teacher offered prayer and proceeded with her lesson. When the visitors were gone, she told the class in her quiet way that she was very much disappointed in them on account of the prayer. She isn't very sure about how much her audience got out of the demonstration, but she was thrilled when at recess six-year-old Jane clasped her hand and confided: ?I'm very sorry, Mrs. ?????; and I won't ever disappoint you again. You can ask me to pray whenever you want me to, an' I'll do it." Thus organizations of the Church are most effectually supplementing the religious teachings of the home; but usually they are least known where most needed. 196 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE What is true in religious activity is equally true from the standpoint of other needs. In order to be his best, to develop to the fullest measure of his possibilities, every child should have a normal home life. That means he should be physically sound, and that he should have opportunity for education, for recreation, for vocational preparation for life, and for moral and spiritual development. Time was when the boy who could not keep up with his class in school just lagged along until he was altogether too big for his grade and quit. Now a. Social agency becomes interested in this particular retarded boy and consults a dozen experts in order to find the cause of his backwardness, to remove his handicaps, to find the place where he may best fit in, and so get the good there is for him in life. A few years ago, a child could attend school ragged and dirty, dull-eyed, pale, hungry?could attend two days per week or five, could be prompt or tardy. Little was said about it to the child and nothing to those from whose home he came. Today the attendance officer, the relief worker, the school nurse, may all happen in during the course of an afternoon to learn why a little child should be the victim of parental neglect. In days long past, an urchin might be partially deaf, might be near-sighted or cross-eyed, might have a crooked arm, or a twisted knee, these were his misfortunes. If his parents could afford it and had enough sense, they had a doctor. If not, it was nobody's business. So thorough is the health work of the present generation that even a severe case of freckles might be prescribed for. There must be no_physical handicaps. No half-seeing eyes, no adenoids to dull the sense, no ugly teeth to poison or fret, no crooked limbs that can be made perfect. If the parent is able to pay for corrective measures, the pressure from many angles becomes so great he can not resist it. If he can not pay there may be other relatives. Otherwise, there is the Clinic or the ever faithful family physician who gives his service for humanity's sake. In the field of recreation, too, there has come a great change since the time when lads spent whole afternoons on the sand banks by the 'old swimmin' hole." Their play is planned now and supervised. There are picnics with the Sunday school, and hikes with the scouts or bee-hive girls, and excursions with the teachers; and dancing is taught, and music and singing. For childhood must be happy, if life is to be useful?happy without being wrong. But, as in religion, there are those along the byways who have not heard, or having heard are not able to understand, so in the other good services of social work, there are those to whose WHAT IS BEING DONE FOR CHILDREN 197 hearts the message has not come. Notwithstanding all the varied interests of public agencies, the trained social worker sees in these homes of the children, her most perplexing problem. A home can not be a normal home with an income that is inadequate nor with a homekeeper who is inefficient. And yet there are family groups everywhere that subsist almost upon bread alone, and houses in which the chief occupation of the mother is to "nearly bust your head if you don't hush up this very minute." And in these abodes are disease and dirt and ignorance. The child's opportunity for education is hampered by malnourishment, by unfit clothing, by lack of cleanliness, by irregular school attendance, by physical ailments that can be cured. By these same handicaps, his way to legitimate recreation is barred, and he is turned loose to forage among garbage heaps, or "swipe" an apple or a doughnut at the corner grocery. As to vocational preparation for life, the child from this kind of home is branded as "no good" tong before he reaches the stage for any vocational training. And so when he is old enough for work?perhaps long before?he enters the ranks of the unskilled and repeats the history of his father with odds against him of a sharper competition. We have mentioned briefly the boy. With the girl, it is even worse. For how is one to learn motherhood and homekeeping in a shack, with a teacher who has never seen a home? And how is she to get experience in planning for family comfort when the mother does not know an hour ahead whether there will be a meal to cook or a few left-overs handed in by some kind neighbors? Such a family was visited recently by the writer. When the door was opened to admit the visitor, the mother stood, with her family of seven close around her, all open-mouthed and staring. They were unwashed, unkept, ragged. The room contained nothing in the way of furniture?a few rags strewn about, some old boxes, and dirt. And these waifs in ten or fifteen years from now will be at the head of seven other family groups. Is it any wonder that the social workers' effort is mostly spent in the interest of children? We can listen with much less concern to the story of an aged woman who "bootlegs," or an old couple whose home is much neglected, and whose conduct does not conform strictly to the moral code. If such are in want, we may give relief; but it were energy wasted to even try to change their way of life. The condition must be tolerated until the kind angel of death smoothes out the dismal way for them. It is children who are at once our greatest hope and our deepest despair. Have we painted our picture dark? It is not too dark to be real. It would Iork hopeless, but for the light that glimmers 198 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE through the dull vista?the light borne aloft by men and women whose hearts have been turned to the need of these, the least among Christ's little ones. All over the land has been heard the call for organized effort in caring for the unfortunate child. All over the land is felt the need for skilled service in the solving of his problems. It is a very gratifying fact, that Relief Society women of the "Mormon" Church are in the front ranks of welfare workers in our state and nation. No people in the world are more vitally interested than they in this field of service. And so we may look hopefully into the future, while we unite our energies for better methods and bigger accomplishments. For what are your children to be, father? What are your children to be? Men noble and true? It depends upon you, They are following you, you'll agree. And what are your children to be, mother? What are your children to be? By your curse or your song, You can guide them along To be demons or saints?can you see? So what are your children to be, parents? What are your children to be? They will walk in the light If your conduct is right? By its fruit men shall know the tree. "Necessary" List of Books Furnished for Children Under Sixteen Education Centers Help to Compile List for U. S. Kiddies Washington, Nov. 26?(U. S.)?A list of 40 books that all children should read before they are 16 has just been compiled by the Bureau of Education. Some of the lists used in making the final choice were prepared by The National Education Association; The Children's Librarian's Section of the American Library Association; The Dean School of Education, Chicago University; and Teachers College, Columbia University; The Massachusetts Department of Education; Three lists which were compiled by direct canvass of the children in three large city schools. Little Women by Louisa M. Alcott ranked first on 11 lists. Others in the list are, Robinson Crusoe by Daniel Defoe; Tanglewood Tales by Nathaniel Hawthorne; Uncle Remus by Joel Chandler Harris; Anderson's Fairy Tales, by Hans Anderson; Jungle Book, by Rudyard Kipling; Alice in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll. Treasure Island, by Robert Louis Stevenson; Just So Stories, by Rudyard Kipling; Heidt, by Johana Spyril; Arabian Nights; Adventures of Odysseus, by Fabriac P. Colum; Oregon Trail, by Francis Parkman; Hans Brinker, by Mrs. Mapes Dodge; Tom Sawyer, by Mark Twain; Swiss Family Robinson, by Johann David Wyss; Merry 'Adventures of Robin Hood, by Howard Pyle; Captains Courageous, by Rudyard Kipling; Boys King Arthur, by Sir T. Mallroy; Ivanhoe, by Sir Walter Scott; Aesop's Fables; Water Babies, by Charles Kingsley; Child Garden of Verse, by Robert Louis Stevenson; Waster Skylark, by John Bennett; Little Men, by Louisa M. Alcott. Little Lame Prince, by Dinah Craig Mulock; Gulliver's Travels, by Jonathan Swift; Boy's Life of Abraham Lincoln, by Helen Nicolay; Story of a Bad Boy, by Thomas Bailey Aldrich; Huckleberry Finn, by Mark Twain; Prince and Pauper, by Mark Twain; Grimm's 'Fairy Tales; Story of Mr. Dolittle, by Hugh Lofting; Wonderful Adventures of Nils, by Selma Lagerlof; Joan of 'Are, by L. M. Boutet De Monvel; Rebecca of 'Sunnybrook Farm, by Kate Douglas Wiggin; Man Without A Country, by Edward Everett Hale; Men Of Iron, by Howard Pyle; Understood Betsy, by Dorothy Sanfield; Bog of 'Flanders, by Ouida. The Last Page of Amy Lowell's Keats By Annie Pike Greenwood O Keats! My tears involuntarily drop upon this page? You are very real to me: I see your hand, So thin and white, writing in agony, And your poor tortured face, pallid with pain. Penning this letter, little then you thought That after all these years our hearts should bleed, Feeling thy piteous fate. O suffering soul! Doubled your burden of genius and of love, One crucifying constantly the other, And both destroying you, O martyred one! The tribute of my tears can nothing mean Either to you or me?for nothing can Ever make right the sorrow of your destiny. Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman CIVIC IMPROVEMENT Big Horn Stake. For many years the people in the Big Horn stake thought their soil not adapted to flower culture, consequently there was little or no incentive to plant flowers and shrubs. A few women, courageous enough to challenge these untoward conditions, tried some hardy varieties and were delighted with their success. With this evidence of achievement at hand, the Relief Society stake board used flower culture as a teacher's topic, in order to encourage the women to beautify their homes, suggesting that a feature of the summer conference be a flower exhibition. At the convention which was held last August, in the Lovell West ward chapel, a beautiful commodious building, flowers were placed on display from practically every ward in the stake. Tubs, huge pails and boxes, the receptacles of the flowers, were made resplendent with gorgeous zinnias, dahlias and cosmos. Large fragrant sweet peas, of vivid colors, and phlox in pastel shades with marigolds as large as breakfast plates made bright the scene. Roses and pansies and flowers of other varieties completed an exhibition of a truly surprizing nature. But what was even more Pee ane than the exhibition, 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was the improved condition of the town. Almost every yard was a blaze of color, making attractive and beautiful the simplest homes. Logan and Cache Stakes. Early last spring the Beautification committee of the Chamber of Commerce of Logan asked the Relief Societies. Of the Logan and Cache stakes to sponsor an organization for civic improvement. As a result an organization was effected with the following officers; chairman, secretary, and a publicity committee, consisting of four sub-committees to act on survey, information, flower shows and devices. A committee of three was appointed in each ward Relief Society with a Relief Society board member as chairman. The duty of the committee on information was to furnish information on plants in their season, care of bulbs, lawns, eradication of weeds, etc. This information, and general articles on beautification were furnished the local paper by the committee on publicity. The committee on devices suggested ways and means of sustaining public interest. The committee on survey kept informed on conditions of homes and public grounds. Monthly meetings of the committees were held, presided over by the general chairman. Monthly flower shows were held to stimulate an interest in the work. Every Relief Society member pledged herself to keep her front lawn and walks clean to the middle of the street, also to raise a flower garden. This pledge was quite generally lived up to. In September the Second ward, at their work and business meeting, had a flower show as a climax to their Summer's work and the beginning of the Fall work. Seventy-five vases of flowers were brought by Relief Society women of that ward, who had raised them in their own gardens. The display was arranged beautifully, and surpassed any show that had been held. A short program was given and refreshments served. Every Relief Society woman feels that another year will be more successful in the campaign for cleaner grounds and more flowers. The last two summers many of the Logan women have had the opportunity of taking courses at the U. A. C. Summer school on nutrition and diet, under Dr. McCollum of the Johns Hopkin's University, also under Miss Alma Binzel, on child training. This has been a great help to the mothers, together with the health center, in developing sturdy and healthful children. The health center is open the first Wednesday every other month, and then the month between a round table discussion NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 is held with the mothers on matter taken from Hygeia, a journal of individual and community health, published by the American Medical Association. The reaction from this work is very encouraging and gives promise of being decidedly helpful in the promotion of community health. Malad Stake. When Mrs. Ella J. Richards, formerly of Salt Lake City, and now president of the Relief Society of the Malad stake, went to live in Malad, six years ago last June, she suggested to the women of the community that they all join forces and - clean up and beautify the town. Accordingly the work began the following autumn with Mrs. Richards in charge. The chairman canvassed the business district and obtained eighty dollars. She then went to the public school and asked the principal to organize some "Clean-up Squads," which was done immediately. The one gathering the largest pile of tin cans received ten dollars, and the one gathering the largest pile of weeds received ten dollars. The prizes were then graded according to the amount of refuse gathered. This encouraged the children and they worked like beavers. The Mayor of the town came to the assistance of the women by sending teams to remove the rubbish from the streets. The following season the committee advertised a Flower Fair and offered prizes for the best house plants as well as cut flowers. They arranged four tables the length of the amusement hall and the wonderful display was a great surprise to the people of Malad. The committee offered a prize for the residence having the most attractive surrroundings, and for the street having the fewest weeds. The Mayor of the village was asked to donate a silver cup for the first prize. He did this very willingly. The committee secured the services of Mr. Emile Hanson, of the Utah Agricultural College, to go to Malad and judge the flowers and inspect the town, and he did some very helpful work for the community. Many changes have occurred in the community since the Civic Committee commenced its work. Four flower fairs have been held inall, the town has its first garbage cans, fly campaigns have been conducted, and the first children's playground has been started. It is the intention of the committee to try to get a large window on Main street in which to display the tulips and different flowers when they are at their best. It is interesting to note that Mrs. Richard's own home won the cup last year for the residence having the most attractive surroundings. 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HOME HYGIENE AND CARE OF SICK Through the courtesy of the Salt Lake county chapter of the Red Cross, and under the supervision of the Civic Center in Salt Lake City, a series of courses are being given at the Center in Hygiene and Home Care of the Sick. The course consists of sixteen lessons given semi-weekly, and the tuition is $3 which includes the text book. A Red Cross certificate is given for the work. Many Relief Society women in the city and county are availing themselves of this excellent training which prepares them to care for the sick in their homes. Mrs. Wm. C. Howe, a graduate nurse with long years of experience and special training, is the instructor. Jordan Stake. Due to the long distance from Jordan stake to Salt Lake City, special arrangements were made for the course to be given at Sandy. Forty-one registered for the work and the class represented eight of the Jordan stake wards. So successful was the class and so interested are the women in this locality, that a second course is being arranged for with twenty already registered. Several who took the work would like to go on and study nursing professionally. At the close of the class a social was held, during which a number of the members expressed appreciation for the excellent instructions given by the teacher. Light refreshments were served. Oquirrh Stake. Oquirrh stake was also favored with a course, which was given locally at Magna. The class was held in the new ward chapel. There were twenty members enrolled for the work, all of whom were Relief Society women. Three of these women were forced to drop out on account of sickness. The other seventeen will receive certificates. All were well pleased with the course, and feel that they gained a great deal through having attended. Juarez Stake. A very successful conference and teachers' convention was held in Juarez stake in February, the teachers' department following the outline presented at the last group convention. The Dublan and Chihuahua wards have recently held successful bazaars for social as well as financial purposes. 'The ward presidents are cooperating closely with the bishops in their welfare work. The wards are all carrying out a program in maternity and child welfare work. NOTES FROMTHE FIELD 205 Shelley Stake. The Shelley First ward has made an excellent record in obtaining subscriptions to the Magazine, for 1926, securing 103%. Congratulations to Shelley First ward. Tintic Stake. The Tintic stake Relief Society held an annual social and teachers' convention, December 4, 1925, in the recreation hall, Eureka, at which time three one-act plays, and three select readings and musical selections were given. All wards in the stake participated. At the close of the program, luncheon was served to about two hundred people. Me Beaver Stake. Health conferences are being held under the direction of the stake Relief Society officers. Early in September a large number of Relief Society workers participated in a stake temple excursion to St. George. One of the larger Societies donated $700 toward the erection of a new ward chapel recently completed, and also purchased a new piano for the Relief Society hall. In this Society a contest is now going on among the district teachers. The scoring points are: regular attendance at Relief Society meetings, at stake union meetings, and sacramental meetings; visiting districts monthly; and the use of the teachers' topics. The winning division will be' entertained by the divisions losing out. As a result the attendance at all meetings has greatly increased and visits of teachers is 100%, and a much better preparation is made on the teachers' topics. One of the other large Societies recently presented a pageant: Grandmother's Dream, from Infancy to Old Age; also a play representing the sons and daughters, the fathers and mothers, the grandfathers and grandmothers, the great grandfathers and great grandmothers, in which the members represented all the characters. The presentation was so highly appreciated that it had to be repeated, and in the two entertainments the Society netted about $160. In one of the small wards the women of the Relief Society had three swimming parties with the Bee-Hive girls during the summer. Most of the Societies have held bazaars which have been very successful in raising funds. At Christmas time each missionary in the field is remembered with $5 or more from the ward Relief Society. Much good was accomplished in 1925 through the various courses that were taken by two delegates during leadership week in Provo, early in the year. Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in June) THE DISPENSATION OF THE MERIDIAN OF TIME (Continued. ) JESUS?THE DISPENSATOR A. His name. Theologically, there is but one Jesus, the one of scriptural promise, the one whose name in heaven and on earth means, "God with us." (See Matthew 1:21-23.) This name indicates what Mes was before he came to earth and what he is and ever will be, God. In the light of this scripture we may understand Abinadi, the Nephite prophet, who declared: "And now Abinadi said unto them: I would ye should understand that God himself shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his people." Mosiah 15:1 The name of Jesus is a holy one, and any approach toward its desecration is pitiably degrading to the one who does it. Reverential use of this name is evidence of re'igious sincerity and Christian culture. B. Evidence concerning his parentage. 1. His Father was God. We are all the spiritual children of God but Jesus was the only child begotten of God by a mortal mother. "And the word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth." John 1:14. 2. The mother of Jesus. The mother of Jesus was a virgin betrothed to a man of ideal character, a man of sincere spirituality and refined humanity. His justice would not permit him to take Mary to his home and live with her as a wife with evidence against her faithfulness, and his mercy would not consent to her being publicly humiliated. He could not accept her, but he would not denounce her. He would jo as much as he could to help, and little as he could to hurt He planned seclusion but God's messenger removed from Joseph's mind the cloud of error, and he with Mary became the guardian of something more than mortal. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 207 How faithfully he kept his trust is shown by his solicitude for Mary and implicit obedience to the instructions of that guardian angel who read the murderous mind of Herod and directed the flight of the holy family into Egypt. This Joseph was a character whose conduct proclaimed him a nobleman on a par with his glorious opportunities. The mother of Jesus was the woman of all women, the highest elect of God. Jesus declared himself to be the Son of God but he spoke frequently of himself as the "Son of Man," in acknowledgement of the mother's part of his being. He was the Son of God by his Father and the Son of Man through his mother. C. His birth. Little wonder that Herod was greatly infernal in the answer to the inquiries of the students of the stars. Their question, "Where is he that is born king of the Jews?" startled him. This tyrant king was, no doubt, aware of the predictions made by Jacob in blessing Judah: "The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shall the gathering of the people be." Gen. 49:10. The Babe of Bethlehem, born of Mary, was the Shiloh, the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, the Prince of Peace, the only King of Israel to remain in office forever. D. Some evidences of the Divinity of Jesus. 1. Testimony of mortals. A. Men. 1. Simon in the temple. "And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for himvafter the custom of the law, "Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said, 'Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word: for mine eyes have seen thy salvation." Luke 2:27-30. 2. John the Baptist. "The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. "This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me: for he was before me. "And I knew him not: but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water. "And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending 08 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him. "And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost. "And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God." John 1:29-34, 3. Peter on the way to Philippi. "And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. "And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." Matthew 16:16, 17. B. Women. 1. Elizabeth at her home in the hills. "And whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?" See Luke 1:39-43, 2. Anna in the Temple. "And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser; she was of a great age, and had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity; "And she was a widow of about four score and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day. 2 "And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem." Luke 2:36-38. 3. Martha at the home in Bethany: "She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou art the: Christ, the Son Of God, which shou'd come into the world." John 11:27. (Jesus accepted Martha's belief as true.). Testimony of Angels. A. Gabriel to the virgin Mary: "And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS. _ "He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David: "And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end." Luke 1:31-33. "One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 209 the Messias which is, being interpreted, the Christ." John 1-40. "Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile! "Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. "Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God; thou art the King of Israel." John 1:47-51. B. The Angel with Heavenly Choir. "For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. "And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. "And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." Luke 2.11-14. 3. The Voice of God the Father. "And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: "And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." Matthew 3:16, 17. 4. The testimony of the Holy Ghost. A. By its presence at the baptism of Jesus. B. Through Peter, in personal testimony. 5. Testimony of Jesus Himself. A. To his mother?"I must be about my Father's business." "And when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. "And he, said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" Luke 2:48, 49. B. To Martha?"I am the resurrection and the life." "Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall. Never die. Believest thou this?" John 11:25, 26. C. To the High Priest?"'So I am." "But he held his peace, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? 210 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "And Jesus said, 'J am': and ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven." Mark 14:61, 62. D. To the Man who was Born Blind. "The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvelous thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes. "Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth. "Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind. "Tf this man were not of God, he could do nothing. "They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. "Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? 'He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? "And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee." John 9:30-37. E. To the public assembly?"I have power to lay down my life and power to take it up?" "Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again. "No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father." John 10:17, 18. When he said, "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends," Jesus, recognized the power of man to lay down his life, as many men and women have done for great causes and for their friends. But to no mortal had ever been given the power to take up his or. Her life again?Hence, his resurrection was the culminating testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ. Problems and Questions 1. Discuss the proposition:?Jesus resisted temptation as a man, but he overcame death as a God. 2. Prove that devils testified to the divinity of Jesus. 3. On what occasion did the Holy Ghost testify as to the divinity of Jesus Christ? See Mark 5. 4. In what way was the acceptance of Martha's belief and GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 211 Peters' declaration as true, an indirect testimony of Jesus himself concerning his divinity? 5. Discuss the testimonies of the Latter-day Saints as a multiplicity of the testimony of Peter concerning the divinity of Jesus Christ. 6. Relate the circumstances of Jesus being condemned to death for declaring himself to be the Christ the Son of God. See Mark 14. 7. What ground is there for a belief that angels of both sexes took part in the announcement of the birth of Jesus? ) LESSON II Work and Business TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE (Second Week in June) HOME TALKS Brigham Young I. Main facts of his life: Birth and parentage. Early education and training. - First connection with "Mormonism." Connection with exodus from Missouri. Connection with exodus from Nauvoo. Apostle and President. AT. Main facts of his work and mission: 1. Deliverer and leader of his people. 2. Community builder. 3. Statesman. 4. Prophet. III. Principle traits of his character: 1. Vision.?Ability to look ahead. 2. Executive ability. 3. Devotion to his religion. 4. Strong sense of justice. 5. His approachableness. SR Se Sayings of Brigham Young: If you are faithful to your calling let me tell you there are no blessings contained in the-celestial law of the kingdom of God, but what you will have a privilege to enjoy. 212 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE We are nothing, only what the Lord makes us. Without the light of the Spirit of Christ, no person can truly enjoy life. My religion must be with me from one Monday morning to the next, the year around, or it will not answer me. The object of this existence is to learn, which we can only do a little at a time. _Never serve God because you are afraid of hell: but live your religion, because it is calculated to give you eternal life. It points to that existence that never ends, while the other course leads to destruction. I want to say to my friends that we believe in all good. If you can find a truth in heaven, earth, or hell, it belongs to our doctrine. We believe it, it is ours: we claim it. References: "Biographical Encyclopedia"?Jensen. "Historical Record''?Jensen. "History of Utah"'?Whitney. "Life of Joseph Smith'?Cannon. "One Hundred Years of Mormonism"?Evans. A Lady By Amy Lowell You are beautiful and faded, Like an opera tune Played upon a harpisichord; Or like the sun-flooded silks Of an eighteenth-century boudoir. In your eyes Smoulder the fallen roses of outlived minutes, And the perfume of your soul Is vague and suffusing, With the pungence of sealed spice-jars. Your half-tones delight me, And I grow mad with gazing At your blent colors. My vigor is a new-minted penny, Which I cast at your feet. Gather it up from the dust That its sparkle may amuse you. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 213 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) AMY LOWELL Amy Lowell, the poet, whose death occurred about a year ago, belongs to the famous Lowell family of Massachusetts. She was the sister of A. Lawrence Lowell. President of Harvard University, which family produced James Russell Lowell, the poet, a few decades ago. The name Lowell suggests other Massachusetts names such as Cabot and Adams, so that if we admit of aristocracy in America, it surely rests with those old families. The people who knew Miss Lowell say that she was what one would call a large woman, yet she had the dainty hands and feet usually attributed to an aristocrat. It is probably well known to a good many people in Utah that Ada Dwyer Russell, the daughter of James Dwyer, well known pioneer book dealer of Utah, has been for many years the sympathetic and beloved companion of Miss Lowell, and that she is now on her estate looking after Miss Lowell's literary and property interests. Amy Lowell was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, February 9, 1874. Her father was Augustus Lowell and her mother Katherine Bigelow Lowell. Her life has been given over largely to lecturing and writing poetry. She is an exponent of the new poetry and has waged war continuously against the group who think that the new poetry should not be given a place in literature. Inasmuch as Amy Lowell is the first one of the new poets that we have introduced to our readers, perhaps it is only fair that we discuss new poetry for a moment. Louis Untermeyer, who is prominent among the new poets, feels that there is no given matter of mechanics in poetry that need be insisted on. To illustrate his point he calls attention to the Psalms suggesting that in the King James' translation of the Bible they might be regarded as prose because of. The form, while in Moulton's Literary Bible they look like poetry. Nevertheless, they are the same in either case and the Psalms are exalted enough in theme and expression to be poetry, whether their appearance is that of prose or poetry as the eye sees them on the printed page. In any event, it has long been proved that rhyme is not essential in poetry. Amy Lowell is what critics call an imagist, which is another way of saying that she appeals to the senses, the. 214 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE eye, the ear, taste and feeling, through the medium of images for the most part very beautiful, but not always so. Mr. Untermeyer says that Miss Lowell should have been a painter, for she is a poet of the external world, which means, she makes word pictures, or to repeat the idea in other language, she is a colorist in words. This issue of the magazine is devoted to children, Miss Lowell has written a number of childrens' poems two of which we shall include: THE CRESCENT MOON Slipping softly through the sky Little horned, happy moon, Can you hear me up so high? Will you come down soon? On my nursery window-sill Will you stay your steady flight? And then float away with me Through the summer night? Brushing over tops of trees, Playing hide and seek with stars, Peeping up through shiny clouds At Jupiter or Mars. [ shall fill my lap with roses Gathered in the milky way, All to carry home to mother. Oh! What will she say? Little rocking, sailing moon, Do you hear me shout?Ahoy! Just a little nearer, moon, To please a little boy. THE TROUT Naughty little speckled trout, Can't I coax you to come out? Is it such great fun to play In the water every day? Do you pull the Naiads' hair Hiding in the lilies there? Do you hunt for fishes' eggs, Or watch tadpoles grow their legs? Do the little trouts have school In some deep sun-glinted pool, And in recess play at tag Round that bed of purple flag?
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 215
I have tried so hard to catch you, Hours and hours I've sat to watch you: But you never will come out, Naughty little speckled trout!
"Miss Lowell obtained her early education through private tuition and travel abroad. These European journeys were the background upon which much of Miss Lowell's later work is unconsciously woven; her visits to France, Egypt, Turkey and Greece bore fruit many years later in the exotic colors of her verse."
Patterns is a good illustration of the idea expressed in the above quotation from Louis Untermeyer. We shall include part of the poem:
PATTERNS
I walk down the garden paths, And all the daffodils Are blowing, and the bright blue squills. I walk down the patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown. With my powdered hair and jewelled fan, I too am a rare Pattern. As I wander down The garden paths.
My dress is richly figured, And the train Makes a pink and silver strain On the gravel, and the thrift Of the borders. Just a plate of current fashion, Tripping by in high-heeled, ribboned shoes. Not a softness anywhere about me, Only whalebone and brocade. And I sink on a seat in the shade Of a lime tree. For my passion Wars against the stiff brocade.
The daffodils and squills Flutter in the breeze As they please. And I weep; For the lime-tree is in blossom And one small flower has dropped upon my bosom. And the splashing of waterdrops In the marble fountain Comes down the garden paths. The dripping never stops.
Underneath my stiffened gown
216 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Is the softness of a woman bathing in a marble basin, A basin in the midst of hedges grown So thick she cannot see her lover hiding, But she guesses he is near. And the sliding of the water Seems the stroking of a dear Hand upon her.
What is Summer in a fine brocaded gown! I should like to see it lying in a heap upon the ground. All the pink and silver crumpled up on the ground. I would be the pink and silver as I ran along the paths, And he would stumble after, Bewildered by my laughter. I should see the sun flashing from his sword-hilt and the buckles on his shoes. I would choose To lead him in a maze along the patterned paths, A bright and laughing maze for my heavy-booted lover. Till he caught me in the shade, And the buttons of his waistcoat bruised my body as he clasped me, Aching, melting, unafraid. With the shadows of the leaves and the sundrops, And the plopping of the waterdrops, All about us in the open afternoon? I am very like to swoon With the weight of this brocade, For the sun sifts through the shade.
In a month he would have been my husband. In a month, here, underneath this lime, We would have broke the pattern; He for me, and I for him, He as Colonel, I as Lady, On this shady seat. He had a whim That sunlight carried blessing. And I answered, "It shall be as you have said." Now he is dead.
In Summer and in Winter I shall walk Up and down The patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown. The squills and daffodils Will give place to pillared roses, and to asters, and to snow, I shall go. Up and down In my gown.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 217
Gorgeously arrayed, Boned and stayed. And the softness of my body will be guarded from embrace By each button, hook, and lace. For the man who should loose me is dead, Fighting with the Duke in Flanders, In a pattern called a war. Christ! What are patterns for?
Word painter that Miss Lowell is, like the nature painters of today who uses canvas and pigment, it is nature above all else that she delights to portray, consequently you will find all through her writings that she is constantly with nature. The poem characterized as a "Fragment" begins by asking What is poetry? We include it, as it is a very good example of the type of poetry Miss Lowell writes:
FRAGMENT
What is poetry? Is it a mosaic Of colored stones. Which curiously are wrought Into a pattern? Rather glass that's taught By patient labor any hue to take, And, glowing with sumptuous splendor, make Beauty a thing of awe; where sunbeams, caught, Transmuted fall in sheafs of rainbows fraught With storied meaning for religion's sake.
Fragment is possibly the best description in literature of the stained glass windows of the great cathedrals of Europe. In line with the verse just quoted is a poem called "Song."
SONG
Oh! To be a flower Nodding in the sun, Bending, then upspringing As the breezes run; Holding up A scent-brimmed cup, Full of Summer fragrance to the Summer sun.
Oh! To be a butterfly Still, upon a flower, Winking with its painted wings. Happy in the hour. Blossoms hold Mines of Gold Deep within the farthest heart of each chaliced flower.
218 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Oh! To be a cloud Blowing through the blue, Shadowing the mountains, Rushing loudly through Valleys deep Where torrents keep Always their plunging thunder and their misty arch of blue.
Oh! To be a wave Splintering on the sand, Drawing back, but leaving Lingeringly the land. Rainbow light Flashes bright Telling tales of coral caves half hid in yellow sand.
Soon they die, the flowers; Insects live a day; Clouds dissolve in showers; Only waves at play Last forever. Shall endeavor Make a sea of purpose mightier than we dream today?
"The Green Bowl" is another example of Miss Lowell's unique style and is equally characteristic.
THE GREEN BOWL
This little bowl is like a mossy pool In a Spring wood, where dogtooth violets grow, Nodding in chequered sunshine of the trees; A quiet place, still, with the sound of birds, Where, though unseen, is heard the endless song And murmur of the never-resting sea.
'Twas winter, Roger, when you made this cup, But coming Spring guided your eager hand, And round the edge you fashioned young green leaves. A proper chalice made to hold the shy And little flowers of the woods. And here They will forget their sad uprooting, lost In pleasure that the circle of bright leaves Should be their setting; once more they will dream They hear winds wandering through lofty trees And see the sun smiling between the leaves.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 219
Miss Lowell passed away at her home at Sevenels Brookline, Massachusetts, May 12, 1925. Her body was cremated and buried in Mt. Auburn cemetery where James Russell Lowell and Henry W. Longfellow are buried. Many poets have paid tribute to Miss Lowell since her death. We include one tribute of recent date written by Countee Cullen:
She leans across a golden table, Confronts God with an eye Still puzzled by the standard label All flesh bears: Made to die! And questions him?if he is able To reassure her why.
Questions and Problems
1. Name a prominent person from the Cabot family, and one from the Adams family of our time. (If the names of these people do not occur to you after a reasonable amount of thought, let the question go unanswered.)
2. Do you think Miss Lowell's poems written for children would appeal to children? If so, why? You may experiment by reading the poem "Trout" to a boy who likes to fish and see how he responds.
3. Select the words that suggest color in the poem entitled "Fragment."
4. Interpret the line "With storied meaning for religion's sake."
5. Explain how a butterfly can wink with painted wings, and how a blossom can hold mines of gold.
6. It has been said frequently of Alfred Tennyson, that he is very fond of the sea and the moon. Do you find evidence in Amy Lowell's poems that she, too, is fond of the sea and moon?
7. Explain the line "Make a sea of purpose mightier than we dream today."
8. Read to the class Annie Pike's poem to Amy Lowell's Keats, published in the magazine.
Two of the best books we can recommend to our literary class leaders are "Modern American Poetry," by Louis Untermeyer, published by Harcourt, Brace & Co., New York; and "New Voices," by Marguerite Wilkinson, published by the MacMillan Co., New York.
220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
INTELLECTUAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD
This and three following lessons will deal with intellectual or mental problems of childhood. It is the purpose of this introduction to outline the developments made by psychologists in the analysis and measurement of intellectual powers. This second division of our text, which has the title "Intellectual Problems" limits the discussion to the nature of intelligence. It does not attempt to discuss mental upsets or emotional strains that lead to mental diseases. The problems presented will be ones dealing with native capacity, inherent powers, special abilities or disabilities?and not with problems of the pathological or "sick" mind.
Individuals are not all born with the same abilities. Some persons have a natural brilliance or genius. Others have ability to do ordinary things and manage to live fairly comfortably. Still others are dull and backward, and find the burden of earning a living or caring for a family overwhelming, others are so handicapped that they never learn such simple performances as walking, talking and eating. Intelligence varies from genius to actual mental deficiency.
During the last twenty years there has been considerable study of the nature of intelligence. Psychologists have devised certain tests by which intelligence is measured. The standard test is known as Terman's revision of the BinetSimon test. This test is a series of problems arranged according to their difficulty, a six-year child should be able to perform the problems at the six-year level. A sixteen-year individual should be able to do all the tests on the sixteen-year scale. The tests are designed to measure native ability?not knowledge gained by education. If an individual at sixteen years of age can do only the tests at the eight-year level, he is measured fifty per cent. The psychologists express this relation between the real age and the mental age as Intelligence Quotient. (I. Q.) The person who measures the same mental age as his real or chronological age has an (I. Q.) of 100. The psychologists classify individuals according to their I. Q. The table generally accepted is as follows:
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 221
Values Ascribed to the I. Q.
Below 25?idiot. 25-50?imbecile. 50-70?moron. 70-80?borderline of mental deficiency. 80-90?dullness. 90-110?normal (average mentality). 110-120?superior. 120-140?very superior. 140 and above, "near" genius or genius.
Individuals whose I. Q. is found to be below seventy are considered below normal intelligence. The two lowest classifications, the "idiot" and "imbecile" usually require custodial care. While there is no institution for this group in our state, a limited number are cared for in a colony at the State Mental Hospital. At present there are facilities for about ninety, which is entirely inadequate for the needs of the state. Only the most helpless are admitted at present.
The groups classified as "morons" present a different type of problem. They often can do routine or mechanical performances very efficiently. Under supervision, they can make a fair social adjustment. They frequently get into difficulties, just as a child of eight or nine would, if he had to assume the responsibilities of a grown man or woman.
Perhaps the most depressing aspect of the problem of mental deficiency is the fact that heredity plays an important part in a person's native ability. Some studies have been made of delinquent and dependent families through several generations. From the material gathered, it was shown that the lack of intelligence recurred generation after generation. Likewise, normal and brilliant persons were found to have normal and brilliant offsprings. Because there are a number of strains in any one individual, it cannot be predicted whether his offspring will be inferior or superior to himself. But as a general rule, bright, normal or backward persons each reproduce its own kind.
One of the more encouraging contributions of psychologists, in their studies of intelligence, is the recognition of individual differences. Two children of the same age who measure exactly the same mental age, may have entirely different endowments. One may be especially quick at arithmetical reasoning, for instance, and fail in the association or memory tests. The other child may have no arithmetical ability but may excel in other tests. The mental age, or I. Q., alone is not a complete index to the individual's intelligence.
222 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
An analysis of the range of the levels by years that he accomplishes as well as the types of tests at which he succeeds, must be noted in order to understand his mental make-up. In the instance of the two ten-year-old boys whose scores are listed on page 78, the difference in their types of intelligence is shown. Both have a mental age of ten years, so they both have an I. Q. of 100. The first boy X, performs all the tests at the eight-year level, and part of tests at the nine, ten, twelve and fourteen-year level. Adding the extra score (or months) that he gained above the eight-year tests, which he scored perfectly (therefore called his basal age), he made a final score of ten years. The second boy Y, could not score a perfect test above the six-year level, (his basal age) but he succeeded in some of the tests on the fourteen and even eighteen year standard. His total score, too, was ten years, but his abilities are different from those of the other boy. The Boy X, is better balanced and has good general capacity. The other boy Y, has not the general capacity of X but he has some special gift or abilities.
The discovery of an individual's special abilities is an important factor in education and training. There are children who have no ability and no interest in academic training. To them the formal work of the school-room is tedious and meaningless. These same children may be excellent mechanics, draftsmen, musicians, or artists; and, given an opportunity to develop their potentials, they become interested and happy. It is considered wise by psychologists to emphasize the individual's special aptitudes. If arithmetic is the most difficult of all the subjects to a child, it should not be the subject that is given all the attention. Perhaps it should be given the least. The time spent at profitless drill, might better be employed in developing some talent with which the child is endowed.
Formal education, as a mental discipline or training to think, is no longer accepted as sound pedagogy. Ability to reason, or remember, or to exercise good judgment cannot be acquired by training. Individuals are born either with or without certain powers. Training and education can open avenues of expression and can help the individual realize his highest possibilities; but no amount of training can make him rise above his inherent capacity. The emphasis in present day pedagogy is to offer to the individual child an opportunity for expression and development. School systems, however, do not yet have the equipment and facilities to recognize each child as an individual.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 223
Children in many schools are looked upon as more or less uniform, all equally able to profit by the standardized curriculum. The bright boy who performs his tasks in ten minutes must mark time to keep at the same pace as the dull boy, who never can comprehend what he is asked to do. The bright boy's progress should not be unduly hampered. The dull boy should not be made miserable by a constant sense of failure. The success of a child in finding expression of his powers, determines largely his success and attitude throughout his life. If he meets only failure at tasks he cannot accomplish, and if he never is given the opportunity to feel the satisfaction of successful endeavor, his whole life's outlook and attitude will be colored by his unpleasant school experiences. The degree of understanding and care and guidance given the child in developing his possibilities decides how useful and successful his adult life will be.
Reference: Intellectual Problems, page 69 to 83?Challenge of Childhood, by Dr. Ira S. Wile.
Questions and Problems
1. What is meant by intelligence?
2. What is a mental test? What is meant by I. Q.?
3. Why should the lowest grades of mentally deficient be given permanent custodial care?
4. What is meant by individual differences?
5. Explain the difference in the two boys' mental makeup.
6. What provision should schools make for the exceptionally bright pupil? What provision for the child who is backward at formal school work?
7. Why should each individual be helped to discover his special abilities? Why is it important to discover these abilities in a child? 
When you Come to | Salt Lake COME. IN and let us TELL YOU all about it. Che Deseret News Phone Was. 550 OR CALL AT OUR OFFICE TRAVEL AND PEDESTRIAN ACCIDENT INSURANCE THE RELIABLE 1069 EAST 21st SOUTH Our Made to Order L.D.S. GARMENTS and UNION SUITS Wear Longer and Give More Comfort. Price List For Spring and Summer No 50 Light Weight Bleached Cotton, flat weave, New or Old Style $ .95 No. 52 Pee Ribbed Bleached Cotton, Men's or Ladies', New Style.. 1.25 No. 52 Fine Ribbed Bleached Cotton, Old Style 1.50 No. 54 Medium Ribbed Bleached Cotton, Men's or Ladies' New Style 1.65 No. 54 Medium Ribbed Bleached Cotton, Old Style 1.75 No. 56 Medium Ribbed Unbleached Cotton, Men's New or Old Style 1.75 No. 58 Heavy Ribbed Unbleached Cotton, Men's New 'Style................ 2.25 No. 60 Heavy Ribbed Bleached Cotton, Men's New or Old Style...... 2.25 No. 62 Extra Heavy Ribbed Unbleached Cotton, Men's [New or Old 2 Cc 3.00 No. 64 Fine Lisle, any Style.............. 1.95 No. 66 Fine Mercerized Lisle, Ladies' New Style 2.25 No. 68 Heavy Weight, 1/3 Wool any Style... 3.00 No. 70 Heavy Weight, 50% Wool, any Style 3.50 No. 72 Worsted Wool, any Style... 4.35 No. 74 Worsted Wool and Silk, any Style... 5.00 No. 98 Fine Lisle with Silk Stripe, Ladies' New Style........... 1.50 No. 98 Fine Lisle with Silk Stripe, Old Style 1.95 No. 102 Fine Rayon Silk, Ladies' New Style............ 4.95 (We pay postage in the United States) FREE: One pair of Ladies' or Men's Fine Silk Hose or a Ladies' Fine Rubber Apron with each order of $8.00 or more. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ) Keep the Young Folks at Home By Making Your Home Attractive First of all fix up This fine 3-piece suite in Taupe. See a ne Mohair Reversible Cushions. _? $237.50 =  Credit if Desired. ?SPECIAL? This advertisement entitles you to one 18x36 beautiful Neoponset Linoleum Rug for the very low price of 35c. Just the thing for your kitchen to save your linoleum. All ready for mailing. Co-op. Furniture Co. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 22 EAST BROADWAY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $1.95 2 beautiful and durable Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking $1.50: Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, Chiffon. All Colors Per Pair.......$1.00 Box of Three Pairs...........$2.85: MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine W. W. WILLIAMS, President  CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, Vice Pres. The Living Room. Box of Three Pairs.........$5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, Per Pair.....1.50 Box of Three Pairs......... Cccseee$28 Box of Three Pairs...........$4.25 MRS ELVIRA HESS M53 SO 2ND EAST 153 BRIGHAM CITY UTAH BIEN CAKE, NYS FUDGE PUDDING ICECREAM HOT CHOCOLATE Oh that?s it! Makers of Blue Pine Food Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZIN ?? 