[Vol10 | July 1923 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Pioneer Sisters of 1848]
These dresses were finer in quality and more beautiful than those possessed by most of
the pioneer girls.
These women are a type of the men and women who have builded this commonwealth and maintained the faith of the founders of the Church, through all its varied scenes and vicissitudes. They have lived through and seen a multiplicity of changes in the life about them, until the life which the surviving sister now knows bears little resemblance to the life she knew when a child. They moved from the side of a river deep and dark to these mountain vales, where the streams sparkle and dance in the sunlight of a desert region.

Yet, those of the younger generation who are surrounded by the comforts and many of the luxuries of life, must not suppose that, through their hardships, the pioneers lost their cultural ideals. Susan Wells, and her sister, Lydia Ann, as well as other leading women of the community, frequently entertained at dinner the officers at Ft. Douglas, and they did it in a manner that would reflect credit on any people, at any time, and in any civilization. They were of the group who made up the audiences at the Salt Lake Theatre, and listened with rapt attention to the plays of Shakespeare and other classic writers. Forbes Robertson, the great English actor, thirty years after the event, in telling the story of his first appearance on the Salt Lake stage, in company with Mary Anderson, said that she played her role in "As You Like It" that evening as he had seldom known her to play it, and when he suggested to her the fact that she was doing unusually well, she responded by saying that her work was due in part to her audience. "One thing I know," she said, "these people understand and appreciate Shakespeare." The audience which elicited this compliment was made up of men and women, who, like Lydia Ann and Susan Wells, were in the main, pioneers.
SUSAN HANNAH ALLEY WELLS By Miss Louise Wells, Granddaughter
In the little town of Lynn, Massachusetts, on May 3rd, 1830, a third daughter, Susan Hannah Alley, was born to George and Mary Alley. When Susan was about ten years of age, her family moved to Salem, and while there, in 1840, the gospel of the Church of Jesus Christ was brought to them. They became convinced of its truth, and in 1842 were baptized. Their belief in the Church led them to join that body of pioneers who were then breaking the wilderness of the west. In the year 1842 they took their part in the western journey, made in the interest of a strong religious belief, and Nauvoo became their home. Here they lived at Kimball Street, Parley Hill. Susan Hannah and the other children of the family were baptized in the Mississippi river, in 1843.
