[Vol10 | July 1923 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Conservation of Time and Energy Within and Without the Home]
Conservation of Time and Energy Within and Without the Home (Address Delivered at the April Relief Society Conference) By Lalene H. Hart Since woman's work has many and varied phases, it is quite necessary for her to conserve time and energy in order to meet her responsibilities 1 in the most efficient way. Being woman, our main work and mission both individually and as an organization has to do with the home, which as an institution, is traditionally conservative. Those within it have had only a half-hearted belief in homemaking as a profession and in the functioning of science in every day life. Homes are individual units just as persous are, and there are few ways of reaching them collectively. No outside forces can entirely unify their interest, attitude, or point of view, and set up definite standards for them to follow as a whole. To deal with such an institution, to study it, to serve it constructively, to interpret social, economic and moral responsibility, to help it. O function in civil life, to rehabilitate it when breken or disabled, is not an easy problem; but is intensely interesting. For it requires a great deal of courage even to suggest a practical solution of the problems that come within its scope. Housekeeping is a practical thing. One housewife has said that homemaking is housekeeping plus love and interest. The home should be run upon the same economic principles as the business concern. It needs. Executive ability and systematic management. Some women have more of these qualifications than others. That is why they are better housekeepers and mothers; but many housekeepers could be more efficient than they are. Many things are required of the homemaker. The food must be wisely chosen to meet the body requirements, such as proper proportions of proteins, fats, carbohydrates and vitamines. It must be properly cooked and served so that the most fastid'ous may be well fed. Clothing and fabrics need some attention that the family may be well but not conspicuously dressed, and yet only the alotted per cent. Used in the purchase. The homemaker must be prepared to meet any emergency at any time. The wife should remember that the strain of the husband in earning the income should be met by similiar earnestness on her part in the spending of it. Most of us are inclined to be thoughtlessly lavish in expenditure for non-essentials and in the
