[Vol10 | July 1923 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Items About Women]

Items About Women
Great Women of the United States
A committee of the National League of Women Voters has named a list of twelve women who, in its opinion, may be called the twelve greatest women in America. The women selected are Miss Jane Addams, Miss Cecelia Beaux, Miss Anna Jump Cannon, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. Mrs. Anna Botsford Comstock, Mrs. Minnie Maddern Fiske, Mrs. Louise Homer, Miss Julia Lathrop, Miss Florence Rena Sabin, Miss M. Carey Thomas, Miss Martha Van Rensselaer, and Mrs. Edith Wharton.
Where These Women Were Born and What Their Special Achievements
Anna Botsford Comstock, writer and student of natural history, Martha Van Rensselaer, teacher of home economics in Cornell and a member of the Food Administrative Executive Staff during the war, and Edith Wharton, novelist, were all born in New York state. Cecelia Beaux, painter, and Louise Homer, contralto, were born in Pennsylvania.
ITEMS ABOUT WOMEN 331
Illinois claims Jane Addams, philanthropist and founder of Hull House, and Julia Lathrop, social worker. Delaware's daughter is Ann J. Cannon, astronomer. Carrie Chapman Catt, head of the American Suffrage Association at the time of the passage of the federal amendment giving women the franchise, was born in Wisconsin. Minnie Maddern Fiske, actress, was born in Louisiana. Florence Rena Sabin, professor of astronomy in Johns Hopkins, was born in Colorado. Maryland claims M. Carey Thomas, president of Bryn Mawr.
Three of these women have husbands whose names appear in "Who's Who."
A Member of the Staff of Control
Mrs.
Amy Brown Lyman has been appointed a member of the Staff of Control of the Salt Lake County Hospital. She is the first woman to find place on the Board of Directors of that Institution. This appointment we feel is in recognition, first, of the fact that Mrs. Lyman is a capable social worker; secondly, that her appointment gives representation to women on a hospital board, and thirdly, because she, herself, is unusually well suited for the position by virtue of her training and particularly her personal qualifications.

The Salt Lake County Hospital is to be congratulated on the appointment of Mrs. Lyman on its Board as also is the Dee Hospital in Ogden, in having Mrs. Maud Dee Porter on its staff of Control.

Poet-Laureate of Colorado

Mrs. Nellie Burgett Miller has recently been appointed Poet-Laureate of Colorado, which is considered a great distinction. She received the appointment from Governor Sweet following the death of Alice Polk Hill.

To Assist Chinese Women

Women students in the University of Wisconsin have this year given $1200 to assist Chinese women sent to American Universities by the Y. W. C. A.

Sarah Bernhardt

It is common knowledge that Sarah Bernhardt was great as an actress, but the knowledge that she was also pre-eminent in the arts of writing and sculpture is not such common knowledge. Her work in sculpture has brought her high praise and rank among the world's most eminent sculptors. Many of her pieces have been awarded prizes, and her first big work, "After the Storm," is in the Paris Salon. Her last work, although unnamed, according to one critic, is undoubtedly a symbol of the recent war, revealing an old and destitute woman as the Mother France, holding with futility the broken manhood of her country.

Madam Bernhardt was also a good business woman. She made successful business ventures of the erection of houses, a theatre, and several buildings. The Americans have always prided themselves on versatility and genius, but certainly in Sarah Bernhardt we have a combination that is not ofttimes seen.

Woman Wins Poetry Pageant Prize

Isabel Fiske Conant is the winner of the first prize offered by the New York League of American Pen Women and the Women Poets' Auxiliary. Mrs. Conant is chiefly known for her distinctive pageants. "The Acropolis," given by the Lenox Community in Central Park, 1920, was one of her best, while "Clouds of the Sun," given last May in George Grey Bernard's cloister still lingers in the memory of artistic New York. Mrs. Conant is a graduate of Wellesley college, and a member of the National Arts Club.

For the Poetry Festival which took place last week under the auspices of the Southland Club, presided over by its president, Mrs. P. J. Gantt, Isabel Fiske Conant wrote three poems, entitled "Mountain," "Hound of Beauty," and "In the Sun." The latter, the prize winner, reads:

There were towns in Flanders,
Towns in Argonne;
They were like meadow-water
Quiet in the sun.

You know what befell them;
Their aged, their young,
And how were put to silence
Carillons that sung.

When I find Paradise
I shall seek a row
Of little towns of Flanders
That perished as you know.

There at simple door-steps,
Their treasures safe, each one,
I shall see old folk,
And children in the sun.

Lost things, trinkets,
Carillons a-chime,
I look to find them
All in good time.