[Vol10 | July 1923 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: The Sisters, Lydia A. Wells, Susan A. Wells Frontispiece]

AUNT LYDIA ANN AND AUNT SUSAN A. WELLS THEIR TESTIMONIES Lula Greene Richards
Two little sisters seen always together, Whether in sunshine or dark stormy weather. One was scarce thought of, except with the other— Loving and honoring father and mother.
Duty was first with them—pleasure came after— Always with cheery smiles—sometimes with laughter. Patient and diligent—generous and true— They lived in that beautiful city Nauvoo.
When Joseph and Hyrum at Carthage were slain These girls with the Saints shared the sorrow and pain. Soon after the martyrdom, going one day To the Grove where the Saints met to worship and pray,
They heard Joseph's voice there addressing the throng And were thrilled with delight as they hurried along. "It is Joseph returned!" to each other they told— "Resurrected—alive—like the Savior of old!"
They eagerly gazed as they entered the place And saw—yes—the Prophet—his form and his face— And his words were the truth from the Father on high— They with thousands of Saints to this fact testify!
All listened and watched till the vision had fled— It was Joseph no longer but Brigham instead. To thousands of people the truth was thus shown That the mantle of Joseph o'er Brigham was thrown.
That marvelous thing which those two sisters saw, They never forgot—and they honored the law Which the Lord had revealed in his great gospel plan— And both became wives of one good, faithful man—
Brother Daniel H. Wells stood a Counselor long To President Brigham Young—valiant and strong, Unto him, in the Spirit Home, Lydia has gone, But Susan still waits for her call to pass on.
In the City Celestial those sisters will stand— Their unselfish union perfected and grand— With their true, noble husband and all his bright throng— Their sons and their daughters brave, lovely and strong.
With lives everlasting their works will increase In wisdom, intelligence, power and peace. Among Zion's daughters, no purer type dwells Than Aunt Lydia Ann and Aunt Susan A. Wells.
(Affectionately inscribed by L. Lula Greene Richards on Aunt Susan's 93rd birthday, May 3, 1923)