[Vol10 | July 1923 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for September]

LESSON III Literature (Third Week in September) JAMES FENIMORE COOPER
One of the first writers of fiction in America was Charles Brockden Brown. He followed the fashion of fiction then in vogue in England. Ghost stories and tales, making use of supernatural material, were in style. During his time and prior to it, poets of America were languishing for the mother country. It did not occur to them that the Hudson River was as worthy the poet as the Thames or the Avon, or that the birds that caroled in the interminable forests of America made as sweet music as the blackbird, the sky lark and the nightingale of England. We had to wait until the time of James Fenimore
JAMES FENIMORE COOPER
Cooper for a break from the old world. Cooper gives us the life of the pioneer, in the eastern part of our country. He was born in New Jersey in the year 1789. His father was of English extraction and his mother Swedish in descent. Cooperstown, on Ostego lake, a very beautiful estate, was acquired by his father, William Cooper, for their home. This region was so primitive in its nature that the wild beast and the Indian were as yet its inhabitants. Soon the log house, their first dwelling, gave way to a rather ambitious mansion, and in time Mr. Cooper went to congress. All of his son's later experiences in the city, at Yale university, and in other places foreign to rural life, did not obliterate
the impressions that nature, in all its primitiveness and grandeur, had made upon his mind. He was dismissed from Yale, not because of any very serious escapades, but because he loved the out-door life very much better than class room exercises. His dismissal from Yale caused him to go on shipboard, as a sailor before the mast. There was no naval academy at that time, so that he had to take his training upon the ship. He visited London and Gibraltar, and on his return received a midshipman's commission. He gave up the sea at the time of his marriage, as his wife greatly preferred that he should spend his life with her in the country, to going to sea.
An odd accident changed the whole course of his life. One day, while reading a dull piece of fiction, he remarked to his wife that he believed he could write a better story than that. She dared him to try, and as a result he wrote a tale of English life entitled, "Precaution," which was very stupid for the reason that Cooper knew nothing of high life in England. He might have given up writing altogether had it not been intimated to him that he was very unpatriotic to choose an English theme for his first novel. This suggestion led to a second venture, which was successful. The revolution was a matter of interest to him, and so he chose Westchester county as his scene. He had heard John Jay tell the story of a spy who had served the American government most fearlessly and unselfishly. From this story he created the character of Harvey Birch, and thereby added a great character to the world's fiction. "A character," says Mr. Trent, "appealing profoundly to the general taste of the period for pathos and romantic contrasts." Mr. Pancost says of The Spy "that its publication was almost as memorable an event in our literary history as the publication of Irving's Knickerbocker History of New York." In a sense The Spy is a historical novel. The fact that it is Washington and no other with whom Harvey Birch has his memorable interview, undoubtedly adds to the charm and power of the book. Nevertheless, Cooper's knowledge of the type of man he was describing and the scenes in which the story was laid, had very much to do with it. A position as a man of letters was now won for Mr. Cooper. Before the year was over, he was known favorably in both England and France.
His next venture was The Pioneers, in which he described scenes familiar in his boyhood. Another venture was The Pilot. He had read Scott's Pirate and declared that it was written by a landsman, so he determined to write a sea tale that would reflect his first-hand experience of the sea. Long Tom Coffin and the pilot himself, and Paul Jones would alone have made the story noted, but to these was added the life of the sea, and in it Cooper did something that no other writer had really tried to do, thus giving America the distinction of creating real

sea fiction. This year chances to be the centenary of the publication of both The Pioneers and The Pilot.
After Cooper's success with The Pilot which had made him something of a lion in New York, he turned again to the battleground of the Revolution and wrote Lionel Lincoln, or the Leaguer of Boston. This book has all the accuracy of detail characteristic of the modern realistic novel.
In February, 1826 Cooper gave to the world the best of all of his works of fiction, The Last of the Mohicans. As a story of thrilling adventure, it is worthy of high praise. Yet, this is only one of its favorable points, for to employ the words of a well-known critic, "It is full of the poetry of the forest, embodied in the great hunter, Hawkeye." Cooper's fame was now at its height, and he could afford to visit Europe. From June, 1826, to November, 1833, he moved from country to country, the recipient of many courtesies which he did not receive in a very gracious fashion. Mr. Trent says, "He was too typical a democrat to make a favorable impression everywhere. He fancied that his success as a writer made it necessary to lecture to both the old world and the new on their particular weaknesses. Because of this fact, he grew to be very unpopular."
The time in which Cooper lived was not as distinct from our own time as one might think at first hand. Europe half feared and wholly misunderstood America during that period. Ignorant and prejudiced travelers were doing their best to make relations still more strained, very much in the fashion that they are doing it today. Cooper's frequent flings, both at his own country and Great Britain, only succeeded in making him enemies in both countries.
During these years of unfortunate controversy, Cooper wrote some of the best and some of the worst of his novels. The famous Leatherstocking Tales give us Cooper's best pictures of the life he sought to portray. These books, The Deer Slayer, 1841; The Last of the Mohicans, 1826; The Pathfinder, 1840; The Pioneers, 1823; and The Prairie, 1827, to name them in the order in which they should be read, are Cooper's greatest contributions to literature. In this series of novels, he has given us Natty Bumpo, or Leatherstocking, at five successive stages of his life. "We find him on his first warpath, humble and as one who had not been proved; we see him in the fulness of his marvelous skill and sagacity, and we see him finally when age has come upon him, his friends dead, his very dog feeble and toothless, his famous rifle, Kildeer, out of date and ready, like its owner, to be laid aside. To thus show the life and development of a single character in five successive novels is a memorable achievement and the success with which this has been accomplished is one of Cooper's highest claims to distinction.