[Vol10 | July 1923 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: The Pageant]

The Pageant THE ORGANIZATION OF THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE WHEEL OF PROGRESS Wednesday evening, April 4, the General Board entertained the stake officers and their friends with a pageant entitled, "The Organization of the [irst Relief Society and the Wheel of Progress," at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. The entertainment was presented by the Ensign stake. The opening exercises consisted of the singing of "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet" by the congregation, the invocation offered by counselor Susan W. Williams, and the speech of welcome made by President Elsie B. Alder, of the Ensign stake. Each division of the pageant was put into the hands of a director who worked under the supervision of Mrs. Nettie Maeser McAllister, director of the pageant. The reading of well selected scriptural texts by Harold Hoar and George Nelson, representing, respectively, an ancient and modern propliet was singularly effective, as was the music under the direction of Stella P. Foote and Louise W. Davis. The opening exercises created a fitting atmosphere for the presentation of the prologue. The prologue consisted of: two parts, a Tableau of Woman and the First Relief Socety Organization. 
 On a platform near the organ in the Assembly Hall, placed at such advantage that all in the house might see her, stood Woman at a closed gate. Faith, Hope and Charity attended her, but these did not release her. Finally Organization appeared?the bands were snapped?and liberated Woman stood forth. The second part of the prologue consisted of the staging of the First Relief Society. Eigtheen women and three men, dressed in the quaint costumes of the period, made up the picture representing the First Relief Society organization. In this group were seen the Prophet Josph Smi. H, Elder John Taylor, Elder Willard Richards; the first president, Emma Hale Smith; her first counselor, Sarah M. Cleveland; her second conuselor, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and fifteen charter members. Then came a tableau of the five past presidents of the organization, introduced in the order of their time of service, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, which placed before the audience Emma Hale Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, and Emmeline B. Wells. This was followed by the pageant proper, "Wheel of Progress." Mother Earth and Father Time bemoan the past and present condition of their children in the world and feel that naught save destruction is ahead of them unless help comes from some source. To symbolize this condition, Mother Earth sits with her hands upon a broken wheel with many missing spokes. Social service appears and tells her that she has the spokes within her keeping that will repair the broken wheel. She then introduces her ministers: Health, Employment, Education, Recreation, Spirituality and Organization who, each in turn, explain their mission to the world. Mrs. Mary L. Willis as Mother Earth, and May Bell Thurman Davis, as Social Service, pleased the audience with the clearness and beauty of the tone of their voices None of their choice sentences were lost through poor enunciation. The finale was particularly gratifying in that it brought before the audience President Clarissa Smith Williams, who was presented with a beautiful bouquet of roses, and Mrs. Nettie Maeser McAllister, who likewise was presented with flowers, and who deserves much credit for her part, both in the authorship and in the directing of the pageant Two features of the pageant are deserving special attention: First, the co-operation that was had from all the wards of the Ensign stake, making this splendid living, moving picture possible; secondly, the use of the Relief Society women in the main to form the pageant. We are all accustomed to young girls being used for drama and pageantry, but in this instance, we have a most effective piece of work done by women, generally speaking, who are either approaching, in, or past, middle life.