[Vol11 | March 1924 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes_from_Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman Summit Stake ? On October 30, 1923, at Kamas ward, in the Summit stake, a very successful social was given by the officers of the Relief Society, in honor of the thirteenth anniversary of the dedication of the Relief Society building of that ward.

A very interesting program was given, including the story of how the house was built and how the money was obtained to build it, by the president, Mrs. Elva E. Lambert.

Following the program an elaborate chicken dinner was served.

Forty people were seated at the two long tables, which ran the length of the room.

The company consisted of: thirty-eight members, twelve visitors, and twenty babies and small children.

The Relief Society building was started sixteen years ago and was completed in about two and one-half years, and is valued at $2,200. The society has just completed a cement walk on the entire south side of the lot which is one half a city block, and has also put in a water hydrant.

E Teachers' Topics With a view of increasing interest in the visits of the Relief 146 ? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Society teachers and with a view of having members throughout the organization profit by the teachers' topics, it is suggested by the General Board that all members of the Relief Society make it a point to be conversant with the current topic each month, and when the teachers do not introduce the subject themselves during the visit, it is suggested that the hostess lead out in the discussion.

The topics are well prepared and worth while, and where the visiting teacher and the hostess are both familiar with them, and discuss them freely, the teachers' visits will be profitable to all concerned.

Teachers' Districts It is requested by the General Board that Relief Society women in speaking of the territory assigned to a pair of teachers for visiting use the term "district" rather than the term "beat." In the teachers' book the word "district" is used throughout and is very much more dignified and suitable than the word "beat." New Zealand Mission Mrs. Martha J. Wright, president of the Relief Society of New Zealand, writes that she is very happy in her work in this far away land.

In visiting at the various district conferences she has found the Relief Society women interested in their work and making every effort to live up to the gospel teachings, including the Word of Wisdom.

She says: "The dear Maori sisters are very faithful in carrying forward the Relief Society work, and their reports which come in regularly will enable me to make a complete and interesting compiled report for the General Board." Accompanying the local reports sent in to Mrs. Wright are very interesting letters written in English by the local Maori secretaries.

Maricopa Stake.

Phoenix ward won the prize in the recent stake contest for the best average attendance at meetings during 1923, and will receive one dozen Relief Society song books as a prize.

Tintic Stake The Tintic stake Relief Society held their annual stake party at the L. D. S. Church amusement hall.

Those present were the stake officers and husbands, all ward officers and husbands, and the bishops of the wards with their wives.

In all there were 65 in attendance.

The evening included an interesting program, miscellaneous games, and an excellent chicken supper.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 147 Logan Stake: In Memoriam.

In the death of Mary J. Pederson, widow of the late President H. A. Pederson, the church and community have lost one of its most faithful and earnest workers.

She and her husband, who preceded her to the Great Beyond, two years ago, have been residents of Logan since their childhood.

Mrs. Pederson was the mother of ten children, nine of whom, with a small granddaughter, survive her.

She was a devoted member of the Logan stake Relief Society board, where her sweet smile and unselfish disposition will be greatly missed by her co-workers.

An impressive funeral service was held December 14, where her many friends paid tribute to her sweet character, her humble spirit, her devotion to her family and her unselfish life of service.

Hawaiian Mission Mrs. Louise C. Neff was appointed president of the Relief Society of the Hawaiian Mission, on August 4, 1923, to succeed Mrs. May Smith who served the Relief Society as president efficiently for several years and who with her husband, Wesley E. Smith, was released a few months previous to this time.

Mrs. Neff chose as her counselors Sisters Minerva Fernandez and Rickie McQuire, two efficient local workers who have had a great deal of experience in the Relief Society work and who will render valuable assistance because of their knowledge of the Hawaiian language.

In a letter written at Christmas time Mrs. Neff writes: 'We rejoice in our labors and hope to be able to advance the work that has been so well established in this mission by my predecessors.

At the present time we are busily engaged in making Christmas boxes to send to the poor and unfortunate in our midst.

We have also been asked to fill one hundred sixty boxes for the soldier boys who are stationed here." Malad Stake All ward Relief Societies in this stake have agreed to hold their wheat interest for maternity and child welfare work.

Plans are now uhder way to establish in each ward something in the nature of a maternity cabinet or chest.

Nine of the eleven Malad wards are located in Idaho, and two are located in Utah.

During September the state field nurse from Boise accompanied by Relief Society workers visited all the schools in Oneida county.

The children of school age were given thorough examinations and many of the defects discovered have since been corrected. -The expenses of the nurse were paid from funds which had been raised in the county through the sale of Red Cross seals and refunded to the county by the state organization.

In Portage, Utah, a clinic was held, December 19, by Dr. Wilford Barber, Mrs, Ella Conover, and Miss Hansen, assisted by Dr. Black of 
 Garland and by members of the Relief Society stake board.

Forty-nine children of pre-school age were examined, also a number of mothers.

Follow-up work will be done by Miss Hansen who will revisit Portage in January.

Morgan Stake In Morgan stake very profitable bazaars hawe recently been held.

Some of the wards joined with other auxiliaries and divided the profits.

The Peterson Relief Society held a separate bazaar and was so successful that over and above the amount they had estimated they could raise, they had a surplus which was sufficient to cover the subscription price of the Relief Society Magazine for all their members.

Weber Stake In the late afternoon of New Year's Eve, the Relief Society of Hooper ward took singers and visited all the elderly and homebound sisters of the ward.

The serenade and the hand shake were cheering and helpful to both the visitors and the visited.

Canadian Mission ?. Mrs. Ida T. Quinney, president of the Relief Society in the Canadian mission, writes that the work in this field is favorably progressing.

During the past year three new and enthusiastic Relief Societies have been organized.

Juarez Stake 1923 was a very successful year in Juarez stake, which consists of five wards and one branch.

The work was noticeably stimulated by the special Relief Society convention of four sessions held during the fall together with the regular ward conferences.

Great effort is being made to raise the standard of the work of the visiting teachers, The teachers' topics are carefully discussed previous to visits and inspirational talks are given concerning the work and duties of the teachers.

The stake board holds monthly officers' meetings, where the regular work is planned and discussed.

All circular letters from the General Board are carefully considered and items concerning the ward work directly are sent on to the wards by letter.

The stake officers visited the mountain settlements once and Dublan three times officially, during the year.

The wards are all interested in keeping up-to-date the ward history.

Juarez and Dublan both held successful bazaars recently.

The object of the Juarez bazaar was to raise funds for the Mesa temple.

Home reading is a feature in this stake.

Practically every woman in this stake has, during the year, read the Book of Mormon, and most of them have read the Doctrine and Covenants.

Conventions and Conferences General Board members visited Relief Society stake conventions and conferences, which were held in all the stakes during 1923, as follows: Alberta?Mrrs.

Lotta P. Baxter.

Alpine?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.. Bannock?Miss Sarah M. McLelland.

Bear Lake?Mrs. Child.: Bear River?Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Beaver?Mrs. Julia A. Child.

Benson?Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Big Horn?Mrs, Lotta P. Baxter.

Bingham?Mrs, Julia A. Child.

Blackfoot?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion.

Blaine?Miss Alice L, Reynolds.

Boise?Miss Alice L. Reynolds.

Box Elder?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Burley?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon.

Cache?Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Emma A. Empey. | Carbon?Mrs, Ethel R. Smith.

Cassia?Mrs, Amy W. Evans.

Cottonwood?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Curlew?Mrs. -Amy Brown Lyman.. Deseret?Mrs, Julia A. Child.

Duchesne?M rs.

Amy W. Evans.

Emery?Mrs, Julia A. Child.

Ensign?Mrs, Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman.

Julia A. Franklin?Mrs. Amy.

W. Evans.

Fremont?Miss Sarah M. McLelland.

Garfield?Mrs. Evans.

Granite?

Mrs.. Knight, Mrs. Richards.

Gunnison?

Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Miss Alice L. Reynolds., Hyrum?Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.

Idaho?

Mrs. Julia A. Lund.

Jordan?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Barbara H. Richards, Juab?

Mrs. Julia A. Lund.

Juarez?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

Kanab?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion.

Lethbridge?Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Liberty?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs, Amy W. Evans.

Logan?Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Lost River?Mrs. Smith.

Los Angeles?Mrs. Amy W. Evans.

Malad?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

Maricopa?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

Millard?Mrs. Nion.

Amy W. Jennie B, Barbara H. Ethel R. Cora L. BenMoapa?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. 150 Montpelier?Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon.

M or gan?Mrs. Knight.

Mt.

Ogden?Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Mrs. Julia A. Child, Nebo?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight.

North Davis?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine.

North Sanpete?Miss M. McLelland.

North Sevier?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith.

North Weber?Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, Ogden?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Amy W. Evans.

Oneida?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith.

Oquirrh?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon.

Panguitch?Mrs. Cora L, Bennion.

Jennie B. Parowan?Mrs. Barbara' H. Richards, Pioneer?

Mrs.Jennie B. Knight, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison.

Pocatello?

Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Portneuf?Miss Sarah M. McLelland.

Raft River?Mrs. Lund.

Rigby?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith.

Roosevelt?

Mrs., Amy W. Evans, St. George?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, St. Johns?Mrs. Amy W, Evans, St. Joseph?Mrs. Jeannette A. H Hyde.

Salt Lake?Mrs. Clarissa S. Julia A. Sarah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Williams, Mrs. Robison.

San Juan?Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine.

San Luis?Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, Sevier?

Mrs. Jennie B. Knight.

Shelley?Mrs. Rosannah CC.

Irvine.

Snowflake?

Mrs.,. Amy: W. Evans.

South Davis?

Mrs. Clarissa S. Louise Y, Williams, Mrs. Julia A. Child.

South Sanpete?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

South Sevier?Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.

Star Valley?Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

Summit?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion.

Taylor?Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter.

Teton?Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Tintic?

Mrs. Jennie B. Knight.

Tooele?Mrs. Ethel R. Smith.

Twin Falls?Miss Alice L. Reynolds.

Uintah?

Mrs. Amy W. Evans.

Union?Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.. Utah?

Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman.

Wasatch?Miss Alice L, Reynolds, Mrs. Barbara H. Richards.

Wayne?Miss Alice L. Reynolds.

Weber?Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith.

Woodruff?Mrs. Cora L. Bennion.

Yellowstone?

Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde.

Young?Mrs. Rosannah_ C. Irvine.

Guide Lessons for May LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in May) The Parables of the Savior A. Parable of the Leaven.

"Another parable spake he unto them: The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened." Matt. 13:33, The power of a right idea is invincible, whether it is put into the mind of the child or the youth or the adult; silently it works as the leaven in the meal, fulfilling the poetic declaration that: "Truth crushed to earth will rise again The eternal years of God are hers; While error wounded writhes in pain, And dies amid her worshipers." Overcome Evil With Good.?The idea contained in this gem of thought is leaven that is working in the mind of the individual, in the mind of the nation, in the mind of the world.

It will work on until the whole is leavened.

The universal uplift and the triumph of this idea is inevitable.

As an apt illustration of the operation of faith leaven in the mind of a child, the student is cited to a poem, The Joyful Truth, in the February issue of the Relief Society Magazine.

B. The Hidden Treasure.

"Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hid in a field; the which when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field." This parable is recorded by Matthew only, 13:44, This parable seemingly has one great object, the teaching of the paramount value of the kingdom of God.

It is not a lesson in ethics, but one in the choice of values.

The finding of the treasure was a source of joy, and the appreciation of the value awakens in the finder a determination to have legal possession of it even at the cost of all his previous possessions, Almost universally, converts to the gospel gladly set aside their old notions, be they ever so dear, to obtain the blessings of the Kingdom of Heaven; and moreover, they will sacrifice all.

Earthly possessions if necessary, and their experience is that they 
 find the highest joy in this one possession?the gospel with its testimony and privileges.

What are dollars and cents to the Latter-day Saint father and mother in comparison to missionary experiences for their boy and girl?

All the other members of the family are willing to forego the comforts of life for the brother or sister to pass on in the kingdom, and the young man willingly interrupts a career "to be about his Father's business." All who share in these sacrifices are sharers in the purchase of the field where the hidden treasure is.

To have the field of labor offered by the church is to own the hidden treasurer.

Service in the kingdom makes us a part of the kingdom, and the kingdom a part of us; through it we are in the kingdom and the kingdom in us.

The Parable of the Pearl of Great Price "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman seeking goodly pearls; who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." Matt. 13:45-46. "In our own country we generally estimate the amount of a man's wealth by the size of his bank account, by the extensive-. Ness of his landed property, the sort of a house he lives in, and the manner in which he extends his hospitalities or his entertainments.

In our Lord's time and country a different standard obtained.

There you could not always tell how much a man was worth by looking at his clothes or at the house he lived in.

You enter a house of clay walls and a roof thatched with straw or reeds, you find an ill-dressed.

Man sitting there amid the coarsest furniture on a piece of carpet which forms his seat by day and bed by night; and yet that man may be the wealthiest person you have ever seen.

He has his wealth invested in jewels, and for a very good reason.

In oriental countries sudden invasions often take place and great rebellions and revolutions frequently arise where cruel tyrants oppress their people; so in order that a man's wealth may be more easily hidden, or securely removed in case of flight, it is in most cases put into the shape of jewels.

In this form, and carried about the person or hid in the tresses of a woman's hair, great fortunes have often been carried from place to place in the East.

If we remember this fact it will help us to understand the value which God puts upon his people in calling them his jewels and to see the full meaning of the figure which Jesus used to represent the blessings of his salvation, as one 'pearl of great price,' which all other property and jewels should be sold to obtain." Hollman's Bible Commentary.

This parable differs from the parable of the hidden treasure GUIDE LESSONS 153 in that the treasure seeker was prospecting in the open field of nature, in the one instance; while in the other instance the man was looking for treasures previously possessed by some one else.

Both parables teach the lesson that the Kingdom of God cannot be obtained either by partial payment or half-heartedness.

The price in both cases is the giving up of one's whole self.

In this parable the merchantman has been a dealer in gems, in search of goodly pearls.

The price of the pearl is all the other pearls; it is the all of the great and the all of the small alike, and nothing less and nothing more.

The purchase of this pearl can not be made through any sort of an Ananias and Sapphira deal.

The first great essential is honesty of heart, a yearning from within, proclaiming the necessity for endlessness of existence, and then he reads, "that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16, And then there comes to him the inspiration of the Almighty, declaring in favor of the yearning within and in favor of the words of Christ.

The truth-seeker places a higher value on the divine declaration than he does on the theoretical findings and willingly gives them all for the revelations of God, attested by his individual testimony. 1. Quote Lowell on the power of truth as a leavening force. 2, Wherein is the overcoming of evil with good the kingdom of heaven in action? 3. Read in the class the poem that illustrates the planting of faith leaven in the mind of the child. 4. What is a joyous sacrifice?

Illustrate.. 5. Read or relate the story of Ananias and Sapphira. 6. What is the most important lesson to be learned by the parable of the hidden treasure?

LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in May) 
 LESSON III Literature (Third week in May) JAMEs Russell Lowely (Continued) We have read that the great educator, Horace Mann, "'championed the sacreligious use of Mr. Auburn cemetery, where persons were buried with no reference to which way they would face | when Gabriel blows his trumpet." This story reminds us of the distance between our time and the time when devout and sincere persons argued over trifles of that sort.

It also introduces to us the name of a cemetery a short distance from the heart of Cambridge, Massachusetts, where many persons of distinct achievement, in many lines, have found a last resting place.

Here Longfellow and Lowell are buried, and also the great actor, Edwin Booth.

Within the city of Cambridge, few places have attracted as much attention as have the homes of Longfellow and Lowell.

Already, in our lesson on Longfellow, we have devoted some space to the old Cragie house where the author of Paul Revere's Ride found a home.

This home had been purchased from its owner for Longfellow.

Lowell occupied the ancestral home of the Lowells, in Cambridge.

In the year 1904, it was our good fortune to visit the Lowell home, a frame house of three stories in height, painted buff, with windows and doors of white.

On the top story there were three windows, as also on the second story, but the third story contained a beautiful, old-fashioned arched door between the two windows.

The grounds were attractive in the highest degree, containing a goodly number of those lovely elms which have been for many years the pride of New England, and perhaps somewhat especially of Cambridge.

Grass, as well as flowers, that were often made to bloom in the poet's verses, were there in great abundance.

The care-taker made us very much at home, and as we left he picked a fringed gentian and presented it to us?the little gentian of the poet's verses.

By the time you come to this lesson, the dandelion will be in bloom.

Place on the stand, if possible, a bunch of dandelions and read to the class Lowell's famous lines to the dandelion.

You will find no better illustration in literature of the ability of a great mind and a great heart to find beauty in the commonest things of nature.

In the year 1847, the year that the pioneers entered the Salt Lake Valley, Lowell parted with his first child, a little girl called Blanche.

In the year 1849, he stood in his home looking out of the window, across to Mt.

Auburn cemetery, on a typical winter day GUIDE LESSONS 155 in New England.

With the thought of the little grave covered with snow, he wrote the following lines: "The snow had begun in the gloaming, _ And busily all the night Had been heaping field and highway With a silence deep and white.

Every pine and fir and hemlock Wore ermine too dear for an earl, And the poorest twig on the elm-tree Was egded inch deep with pearl.

From sheds new-roofed with Carrara Came Chanticleer's muffled crow, The stiff rails were softened to swan's-down, And still fluttered down the snow.

I stood and watched by the window The noiseless work of the sky, And the sudden flurries of snow-birds, Like brown: leaves whirling by.

I thought of a mound in sweet Auburn Where a little headstone stood; How the flakes were folding it gently, ' As did robins the babes in the wood.

Up spoke our own little Mabel, Saying, "Father, who makes it snow?" And I told of the good All-Father Who cares for us here below.

Again I looked at the snow-fall, And thought of the leaden sky That arched o'er our first great sorrow, When that mound was heaped so high.

I remembered the gradual patience That fell from that cloud like snow, Flake by flake, healing and hiding The scar that renewed our woe.

And again to the child I whispered, "The snow that husheth all, Darling, the merciful Father Alone can make it fall!" Then, with eyes that saw not, I kissed her; And she, kissing back, could not know 'That my kiss was given to her sister, Folded close under deepening snow."