Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1899 No. 2.


CONTENTS. 
Aunt Esther’s Sweetheart..........Aunt Em 9.
A Windy Day................     Little Sister. 11.
A Woman Missionary. ...Mrs. Addison Pratt 12. 
International Council.... May Wright Sewall 13.
Obituary....................M. E. Little 15.
Peace Meeting, Orangeville. Josie E. Childs 15.
R. S. Reports,—Josepa....Ellen Halemanu 15.
	Emery.,.................. Mrs. Stevens 16.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting.. J. A. Woolley 16.

EDITORIAL: “The First of June” 1899 at Salt-
	air,....................L. L. G. R. 12.

POETRY: At the Fall of the Curtain.. L. M. H. 9.
	The River of Life.......Lydia D. Alder 11.


AT THE FALL OF THE CURTAIN.

The curtain’s falling and the lights bum low,
So with God’s help I'm ready now to go;
I’ve seen life’s melodrama, paid the price,
Have known its loves and losses, hopes and fears,
The laughter and the tears.

And now, God knows, I would not see it twice !
I've crossed life’s ocean, faced its blinding foam,
And with four anchors cast, I’m nearing home.
And tho’ a storm-tossed hull I reach the shore,
A thing of tattered sheets and broken spars,
Naked against the stars,
I soon shall be at peace forevermore.

For if again I pass these waters through,
I know the kingdom I am sailing to,
What matters where the body lies—’neath sod,
Or down the dark impenetrable deep
Where the way-worn seaman sleeps?
All gates are good thro’ which we pass to God.
The night is dark, but God is in command;
And when the morning breaks I shall be “at the
	land."

Four anchors I cast out, Patience, Faith, Hope,
	Love !
O wisdom infinite! O Light-divine! 
How can I feel one fluttering doubt with anchors
	such as these cast out?
In His dear hand they’ll stay, I’ll wish and wait
	for day. 
	They cast out four anchors from the stern, and
waited for the day.—Acts 25th, 27th. 
			L. M. H.


[Column 1]
AUNT ESTHER’S SWEETHEART.
BY AUNT EM.

	“Auntie.” said a beautiful young girl,
in an absent-minded sort of way, turning 
half around on the piano stool, and with-
out raising her eyes from the floor, “I’m
tired, of this sort of thing, I want a change;
can’t we go somewhere or give a party;
can’t you suggest some amusement to pass 
away the time? Whv, I’ve not even had 
a letter for days, and that stupid brother of 
mine is having a jolly time of it at Har-
vard, while I’m here at home, day after day 
going through the same dull routine. Oh,
I’m weary, I’d even like to get married, if 
I could have an offer that suited me!”
	“Is that all, Alice? Have you no other 
complaints to make?” said her self-possessed 
aunt in reply. The girl looked a little 
crest-fallen, and without a word turned 
around and went on with her practicing. 
Her aunt, who was a wise and thoughtful 
woman, went on with her sewing as if 
nothing had been said; a long silence fol-
lowed, though the truth was Aunt Esther
didn’t know exactly what answer to make;
it was altogether new for her niece to burst 
forth so excitedly and it took the quaint 
little lady by surprise.

[Column 2]
	Alice sat playing a while longer, and
then came forward toward the fire, which 
was burning brightly, and seating herself 
comfortably in a lower rocker in the corner, 
began to stir the coals with the poker; a 
custom many people have when perplexed; 
the equanimity of her aunt was too much
for her; she wanted her to speak, say she 
had been rude, then she would have apolo-
gized; but to see her sit there so complacent-
ly stitching away, taking no notice of her 
vexation, was unaccountable to one so im-
pulsive. Finally she burst out again. 
	“Auntie, we are always going on in this 
humdrum way, for all the world like two 
old maids. You are not old if you are a 
widow, and I—well I am just twenty-two,
and have never yet had a real beau; I want 
some attention, some companionship.”
	“My dear,” said her aunt, “how long is 
it since we came home from the sea shore,
where you danced, and waltzed, and sang 
and took in all the gayeties of the season, 
until you were tired and wanted to come 
home to the Wren’s Nest, isn’t that so?”
	“Yes, Auntie, I did want to come home, 
thanks to your judicious training, because 
there was so much deception and hypo-
crisy there, and such ‘shilly shally’ girls,
and unprincipled young men, and old ones 
too for that matter, and mercenary, manag-
ing mammas, and all that; it was simply 
disgusting to sensible people.”
	“And that was society, Alice, the best
society, we are informed; and certainly if
wealth and extravagance are the standards
by which the ‘best society’ is estimated, it
must have been.”
	“Yes, Auntie, they were rich, I suppose, 
and they were proud and arrogant, but 
they were also ill-bred, some of them at 
least. Oh, I learned some lessons in the 
ways of the world that I shall never forget; 
and I did not hesitate to tell one young 
lady, who carried on a flirtation under my
very eyes, what my brother would have 
thought of her conduct, and she begged me 
to keep the matter secret. But a truce to 
this, we’ve talked of these things before,
I am positively pining for some one to talk 
to; I know you’re good company, and al-
ways amiable, but there’s no variety in our 
way of living. We’ve got lots of relatives,
let’s go and visit some of them, while
Harry’s at college; when he comes home 
everything will be different, he can take us 
out, and we shall have more society; it
won’t be near so lonely here then, he’s al-
ways so lively.”
	“Alice, what about the country cousins, 
do you remember where we used to visit 
when you and they were children?”
	“Yes, I recollect some of those quaint old 
places up among the New England hills,
they’re very nice in summer time, but 
what about winter, how would it be then?”
	“There’s skating and sleigh-riding, and
winter pastimes, of course; but you must 
choose, it is for your pleasure we shall go.”
	“Aunt Esther, are there any young peo-
ple at these places you think of—would it
be interesting in that way?”
	“In what way, Alice?”
	“Why, would there be any love

[Column 3]
making, or any chance of getting a good
husband?”
	“Alice, you astonish me; but just 
now you were deprecating the ways of 
those girls at the sea-shore, and now you 
are talking in much the same strain.”
	“But I am in earnest, I am going to mar-
ry some great, big-hearted, honest young 
fellow, that has never been in society; 
such as I had a glimpse of last season; and 
that reminds me, Auntie, that you have 
had a kind of romance in your life, I’ve
heard Polly say so; and you never say a 
word about it, nor your married life either, 
though for that matter I never asked you,
never thought of it in fact until now; will 
you tell me the story? It must be an inter-
esting chapter out of your history.”
	Before Aunt Esther had time to reply to 
this rapid questioning, a knock was heard 
at the parlor door and in came Polly with a 
handful of letters, and in the excitement
Alice forgot what she had said to dear
little Auntie, as she called her, and began
examining the postmarks, a habit with wom-
en it is said. “Here’s such a queer 
stamp; I do wonder where this letter’s
from? Some rich old uncle I hope, asking us 
to come for the holidays,” exclaimed Alice.
Then she took up the one she knew to be 
from her brother, and hurriedly broke the 
seal. While she sat reading it and tapping 
her dainty little feet on the carpet every 
now and then, a way she had when over-
joyed, Aunt Esther was busy perusing a 
letter that looked even more foreign than 
the one Alice had laid down. 
	In the midst of the reading a carriage 
drove up and visitors were announced, Mr. 
and Mrs. Elmore with their two daughters, 
and the letters were put aside; and the two 
ladies busied themselves entertaining their 
guests during the remainder of the after-
noon. The Elmores were neighbors of 
theirs, and very nice people indeed. The 
girls were near Alice’s age, and were both 
bright and clever. The afternoon sped 
swiftly away, and Alice had actually for-
gotten the letters, so absorbed was she with 
the conversation of their visitors. 
	Aunt Esther urged their guests to stay 
and dine with them, waiving ceremony, 
and they finally consented, so that it was 
nine o’clock or thereabouts before they 
were alone. The evening had been a 
pleasant one, and Alice was in the best of 
spirits, having thoroughly enjoyed the 
society of these neighbors, who had so much 
to say that was worth listening to. One of 
the young ladies was a fine singer and was 
much admired by Harry, who was passion-
ately fond of music, as indeed were both
Aunt Esther and Alice. Miss Elmore had
been singing, during the evening, one of 
Aunt Esther’s old favorites that had carried 
her back in memory to her girlhood days, 
and these words of the song kept ringing in 
her ears:
“Oh, no, we never mention him, his name is never
	heard,
My lips are now forbid to speak that once familiar
	word.”
	Aunt Esther, so calm and self-contented to 
all appearance, would have given almost any-


[Column 1]
thing to have been alone for a few minutes,
that she might weep to relieve her pent-up
feelings; but even when the guests had de-
parted Alice was there, and she must not
give way. The reading of the letters was
resumed, and for a while silence reigned.
What a pretty picture the two ladies made
in that elegant room! Alice was tall and
slender in figure, a perfect blond in com-
plexion, and this evening she wore a dress
of soft, pale blue merino, trimmed with
dainty lace, and as she sat reading, one
might have gazed in admiration, “and
turned and come again to take his fill” of
her rare beauty; every now and then
she spoke to Auntie and her countenance
would lighten to a glow, as she repeated
some of Harry’s witty and shrewd com-
ments upon his college life. Aunt Esther
was one of those peculiar types of women,
so difficult to describe that we term them
“a perfect study;” small in figure, dark
almost olive complexion, purplish or blue
black hair, large gray eyes; many people
considered her plain, but she was attractive,
possessed of that indescribable charm which
for want of a better term we call magnetic.
This evening she wore a gray dress of
some soft material trimmed with scarlet
velvet, and bending over her letters she
looked as much a picture as the young girl
who sat opposite; and Alice, chancing to
notice it, astonished her by saying, "Aunt
Esther, you look so charming tonight,
your very soul seems to be looking forth
out of your eyes. I wish you had a sweet-
heart, it’s such a lonely life to live; how long
since Uncle Herbert died?”
	"Ten years and over,” replied the little
woman, without once lifting her eyes.
Somehow her voice sounded strangely to
Alice, and as she looked she saw tears fall
upon the letter her aunt had been reading,
but which seemed to have dropped from
her hand. Alice knew her aunt was un-
demonstrative, and would not inquire what
made her sad, but thought it was her ill-
timed allusion to her uncle’s death; little
she knew the chord she had touched, that
made such discord in the heart of this staid
and demure little woman.
	The letters were finished and both ladies
drew nearer to the fire and resumed con-
versation, as all do who love each other,
just before separating for the night.
	"Alice, my dear, was your unknown
letter from some rich uncle—an invitation
for the holidays?”
	"No, Aunt, it was from old Mr. Brown
whom we met at the seaside last summer,
and funniest of all (for you remember how
I snubbed him) contained an offer of mar-
riage, the first one I ever had; (audacious
fellow!) tells me he loves me, and that he’s
worth half a million, all in one paragraph.
I wouldn’t marry him if he were worth
three millions; he’s a scoundrel, been in
society thirty years or more and divorced
a wife. Marry old Brown! I’d rather be
an old maid and stay with you all my days,
Auntie; you’ll never marry again, I don’t
suppose, though you’re much more fasci-
nating than most young girls, and know a
great deal more. Is that the reason they
call widows dangerous, I wonder? I’ve
often heard the expression, and couldn’t
imagine why it was used, for you are the
only young widow I have ever really been
acquainted with, and I’m sure you are the
most inoffensive and reserved, and the
very best little Auntie in all the world.”
As she finished her remark she rose and

[Column 2]
threw her arms around Aunt Esther’s neck
and deluged her with kisses.
	When Polly came in to inquire what
orders her mistress had to give before re-
tiring, Mrs. Danforth replied, “Nothing
tonight, but we are going away in a day or
two, so all our plans will be changed, and
we can dispense with some of the help for
the present; and Polly, would you like to
go anywhere on a visit?”
	“No, Mrs. Dantforth, I will stay and
take care of the house while you’re absent,
and Ben, of course you’ll retain him for
outside work; we two can do very well, and
it will save some expense.”
	“All right Polly, it’s very kind of you to
be so careful on my account; then I think
we shall pack up tomorrow, and go away
the next morning; good night, Polly.”
	“Alice,” said her aunt when they were
alone again, “I think I shall go to my sis-
ter’s in M—. Do you remember the
famous, rambling old country house with
the great, wide pastures? It was called
‘The Meadows.’ ”
	“You mean Aunt Jane’s. I remember it
a little, we used to play under the great
elm trees. Wasn’t there a lot of children?”
	“Seven, I believe, and they are none of
them married; you will not be lonely with
all these young people; at any rate we’ll
try it; I have not been there for many
years, never since my widowhood.” And
Aunt Esther paused for a moment, the
word seemed to stick in her throat. “It’s a
long way off, and we need not wait to send
them word, I am sure of a welcome, for
your Uncle William is one of the most hos-
pitable men I have ever known.”
	“Then, Auntie, that’s settled, and I
want you to tell me that romantic story of
your own life. Polly knows something
about it, so of course there is a story.”
	“What nonsense has Polly been filling
your foolish little head with, some servant’s
gossip I suppose?”
	“Oh no, Aunt Esther, this is quite differ-
ent, and if you don’t promise to tell me I
shall ask Polly to tell me before we go to
Aunt Jane’s, because one day she said to
me long ago: ‘Alice, you’re a lovely girl,
but not so attractive as your Aunt Esther
was; she has a history;’ and I wonder
Auntie that I never have teased you to tell
me the story.”
	“Do you see,” said her aunt, pointing to
the clock on the mantle, “it is after mid-
night, and we shall have a great deal to do
tomorrow; you really must go to bed now,
and forget all this foolishness about your
Auntie. It is quite enough for you to
know me as I am now and to judge me
upon my real merits, and not listen to
Polly’s insinuations; she’s over fond of me,
and her imagination carries her away
sometimes.”
	Alice was sleepy, and therefore bade her
aunt good night willingly; and Esther
Danforth sat there alone brooding over the
past that had been so vividly recalled to
her mind that day. For years there had
not been such a sealed fountain opened in
her soul as on that particular day. It
seemed as though that letter had brought
the past with it, not only to Esther herself,
but Polly and Alice seemed full of the
same reminiscences. She would not ac-
knowledge to herself that she had been
persuaded to marry for money, though the
world said so, the world in which she re-
volved; and tonight as she sat thinking, she
drew the letter from her pocket, the letter
that had excited Polly’s curiosity, and

[Column 3]
which seemed to have changed her plans
suddenly.
	“Shall I burn it?” she said to herself.
“I scarcely dare keep it. I am sure Polly
recognized the writing,” and as she solilo-
quized thus, she opened the letter, and was
again perusing its contents.  Looking over
her shoulder we might easily read it too,
for she held it wide open, and gazed as if
entranced. It ran thus:
My Precious Darling:
	I shall sail for America in a few days; I have
made definite arrangements; shall go by way of
London to transact some business there, and then
for Boston. In a few hours after arriving I shall
come to you, and learn my fate. I can no longer
endure this dreadful suspense; it is years since I
wrote you that first impassioned letter, after I
learned that you were free—free from that terrible
bondage of the heart. You answered me as
though you were an icicle, or that your heart
was frozen; but I know you better; you are mine;
and your own heart will bear you witness when
you read these burning words. You cannot forget
if you would the glorious past, the recollection of
which has hung over me during all these years of
banishment, like a rainbow of promise. I have
still the pledge of your devotion, given me on that
May morning when we plighted our troth under
the apple boughs, and I shall never part with it.
The last time I wrote—you answered me in doubt—
it gave mp some encouragement because you said,
“Wait, when the children I have charge of are not
dependent upon me for a home, I may consider
your proposal.” Must duty to the children of
your dead brother forever debar you from fulfill-
ing the pledge of your love to the living—to one
who has waited for you all these years—that he
might take you to his heart and shelter you there
forever? Esther, I am coming, and from your
own sweet lips I must hear the words that shall
decide my fate, my future life.
	Disguise your true self as you may to others,
you cannot deceive me; by my own strength of
affection I measure yours. I will not ask you to
answer me here, it would be too long to wait,
should you say yes; and so—farewell until we
shall meet, sweetest, dearest.
Your old sweetheart,
SIDNEY MANNING.
	Poor Aunt Esther, she read the letter
again and again, and her tears poured hot
and fast—she sobbed as if her heart would
break. “What shall I say to him when he
comes? How can I meet him again after
all these years? I dare not confess my
love, that has outlived everything. I will
not see him, I will go away, I shall not be
able to withstand his pleading!” Not-
withstanding her mental resolve, she folded
up the letter that had caused all this tumult
of feeling and put it in her bosom, and as she
passed out of the room and ascended the
staircase she moaned, and every now and
then she leaned her head upon the balu-
strade and would have fallen but for its
support. Little sleep for her that night;
while Alice, who was wholly heart-free,
slept the sweet sleep of youth and inno-
cence. How true the poet’s words:
“Tired nature’s sweet restorer, balmy sleep; he,
	like the world,
His ready visit pays, when fortune smiles; the
	wretched he forsakes;
Swift on his downy pinions, flies from grief,
And lights on lids unsullied with a tear.”
	The household were early astir the next
morning, for Polly, the faithful friend, had
been almost as wakeful as her mistress, and
the day was a busy one with preparations
for the journey and the necessary changes;
the trunks were packed and strapped and
traveling bags made ready, and Esther Dan-
forth, like one in a dream, went from room
to room to see that all was safe. “This
was his home,” she muttered under her
breath, “my husband’s;” and a cold shiver
ran through her veins; “and I was almost
persuaded to leave it once, but my good


[Column One]
angel stood by and saved me—and Polly,
dear, good girl, she helped me to bear it
all. I came here a bride from the church
door, with showers of congratulations;
what a wretched creature I was; with my
breaking heart and my broken vows; and
Sidney, I did not even dare to think what
would become of him. I was young then,
so very young to be an old man’s bride;
and he knew I did not love him, but he
was ever kind, too kind, and he left all
his wealth to me—only I must not marry
Sidney Manning—there it is in his will,
and it was read that day, when all the
family were there. What a reproach to me
and how they all stared, until I fainted.
I must not marry Sidney Manning ! No,
though my heart should break; not be-
cause of the money—what do I care for the
money; yet it has been a blessing to my
brother’s children, left orphaned and desti-
tute,” and Esther Danforth sank upon her
knees, there in the pale moonlight, be-
seeching heaven to guide her footsteps; and
her prayer was answered.
	The journey occupied two days and
nights; for those were not the times of
steam and rapid transit. At the close of
the second day they reached their destina-
tion. It was a bright, clear, moonlight
night, and the great wide-spreading elms
stretched out their branches, as if to wel-
come and shelter them	The greetings
were affectionate, and Alice was quite de
lighted at the reception she received; it was
so genuine and cordial. The travelers
were tired and glad to go rather early to
bed, especially as they were aware that, as
they were in the country, they would be
expected to rise early.
	Time passed quickly with Alice; there
was so much that was new and pleasant,
and the three young men, her cousins, vied
with each other in planning fresh sur-
prises for her amusement. Aunt Esther
was visiting in a quiet way with her sister,
from whom she had been so long separated,
there were so many things to tell each other
and it was nearing Christmas, and a grand
party was to be given in honor of the visit
of Mrs. Danforth and her niece. Aunt
Jane, as Mrs. Wetherell was called, was
half sister only to Aunt Esther and Alice’s
father, and was some years older she was a
very estimable woman and religious in her
nature; had studied the Bible and sought to
comprehend its meaning. Of late, a new
light had shone across her pathway, and
she had been so impressed with the divine
source from which it came, that she was
making a careful and prayerful examina-
tion of the teachings she had received from
the messengers who came to her with glad
tidings. Her husband was investigating
the doctrine too, and ere long they unfolded
the views they entertained to Aunt Esther.
Contrary to their expectations, she seemed
to grasp these new truths more quickly
than they had done, and it was a confirma-
tion to them that the doctrine was from
heaven. Aunt Esther had gone into the
country place with a broken heart, asking
help from One above, and so completely
humble was she, that she was ready to re-
ceive heavenly truths; in fact she scarcely
needed preaching to, her mind was so clear
on the subjects presented to her by her sis-
ter and her husband.
	The young men were somewhat favorably
impressed with the new doctrines, and had
talked to Alice about the everlasting Gos-
pel, but none of them as yet had been bap-
tized, they were waiting for some Elders,

[Column Two]
who were shortly to pay them a visit and
preach to the people in that vicinity.
	The “Mormon” Elders soon came to
M——, and Mr. Wetherell, who was a
man of considerable influence, tried to get a
hall or meeting house for them to preach in;
but he met with many obstacles in his
efforts that he had not previously antici-
pated; jealousy and tradition were rife in
the hearts of those who were opposed, and
the good man at last decided that the meet-
ing should be at his own place, “The
Meadows.” The house was large and
roomy, and he had expected to entertain as
his guests those who would come to preach
and baptize. All the people in the neigh-
borhood were cordially invited, and many
came to the meetings, and some few con-
verts were baptized and confirmed after two
days’ meetings had been held. Among
those who were baptized were Mr. and Mrs.
Wetherell, Mrs. Danforth and Alice May-
nard and the three sons and four daughters
of the host and hostess of “The Meadows.”
There were eight others baptized and many
more believing. Among the latter was a
young man whom Miss Alice greatly ad-
mired; he had already shown her some
marked attention, and her resolve to marry
some honest, big-hearted fellow was in a
fair way of fulfillment. He was a fine
figure, large and well proportioned, and his
education had not been neglected, even
though he was a farmer’s son, and lived
among the New England hills. He rather
astonished Miss Alice one day by telling
her he had never been in Boston; but she
recovered herself quickly and replied, “she
was glad of it.” Not but that she was
proud of Boston too, but somehow she
liked him better as he was; better than she
ever thought she could like any of the
young men she had met at the capital.
	Meantime both Aunt Esther and Alice
wrote to Harry of the religion they had em-
braced; they were full of zeal and desirous
that he should become a convert. But he
was at that time under quite a different in-
fluence, and his answers to their letters
were very unsatisfactory; but they did not
lose courage. Alice was using all her elo-
quence at home to persuade Richaid Ash-
burn to join the Church of Latter-day
Saints, and her efforts were not in vain; be-
fore many days she had the satisfaction of
knowing that he had espoused the same
religious faith.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WINDY DAY. 
	The fourth of May was the day appointed 
for a reunion at Idaho Falls, a reunion of 
the Relief Society workers in the Stake. 
	In spite of the dreadful storm that pre-
vailed the meeting house was comfortably 
filled. For my part, I would have given up 
the idea of driving the seven miles there, 
but for the fact that I had promised to call 
for two other sisters on the way; so for that 
reason, and as I had my picnic all prepared,
I thought I would venture, hoping that the 
storm would diminish before long. How-
ever, when I came within two miles of the 
Falls, the clouds of dust were so thick and 
dense that twice I could not see the horses'
heads, and could not tell whether they 
were keeping the road or not.
	I do not know when I was so surprised 
at anything as I was to see a few young 
mothers with babes in their arms at that 
meeting. True it is that when the Mor-
mon people make an appointment, they do


not allow anything to prevent them from 
fulfilling it. 
	Sister Bennett said she was sorry that 
two of the sisters whose names were on the 
program were not there, on account of a 
small fire that had occurred in that town in 
the morning. She also spoke of the dance 
that was to convene at eight o’clock in the 
evening, said she thought eight o’clock
was a good time to commence a dance, as 
she, with others, regretted that so many 
dances up here in Idaho did not commence 
until ten o’clock and after; for her part, all 
the enthusiasm for a dance was about gone 
at that hour. 
	When my daughter was up here last 
summer on a visit, she remarked how late 
the young people’s dances took up, and 
said they commenced earlier in Taylorsville.
I said I wished the young people would 
take that step, it would be a step in the 
right direction, for it was a great tax on 
their bodies, especially when they had to 
go to school or to work the next day.
Sometimes it is three or four o’clock be-
fore the dances break up, and perhaps some 
of them have an hour’s drive before they 
get home. If they were obliged to do it 
they would think they were misused. But 
most of them wait for the rest; they must 
talk this up among themselves, and then 
the wisest will take the lead and this late 
hour system will, I hope, be an event of 
the past. 
				LITTLE SISTER.


THE RIVER OF LIFE. 
Broad and majestic gleams its broad bosom,
As rippling it flows to the setting sun;
Ships sail upon it so jaunty and gay—
Their course on the journey has just begun. 
The glint of the sun above the horizon, 
Softly touching their white fluttering sails,
In glory soon bursts dispersing the shadows,
And never the shore wind stops or fails.

Laughter and song, floating out amid music,
Are borne o’er the water, so clear, so blue;
Other ships that are sailing can hear them,
Then join in their dancing and melody too.
From their decks are seen wrecks far away,
Of ships that were fair and oft braved the gale;
Now they are broken, rudderless, wand’ring,
How piteous and sad, how mournful the tale. 

Still onward are sailing some ships of the Past,
Nor song, nor music is heard on them more;
Some whirl with the tide where waters fast foam,
And sink out of sight not far from the shore.
The flap of the sails, the large broken bow,
That brilliantly shone and glistened at morn,
'Neath darkening waves sinks from mortal eyes,
A wreck, a wreck, bright hopes are dead and
	forlorn.

Some still sail stately, standing proud to the breeze,
And over the breakers come safe at last;
Riding into the harbor rejoicing,
For the storms of life overcome, are past.
In the shining waters of heaven’s smooth river,
Safely they anchor under clear, sunny skies,
The shore so fair in the dreamy distance,
Is the glorious land—the fair Paradise.
				LYDIA D. ALDER
May, 1899.


MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE made one of 
the most eloquent speeches at the women’s
great anti-lynching meeting. 
	QUEEN VICTORIA has given orders that 
henceforward the British Museum shall be 
open to the public on Sundays and holi-
days. 
	SUSAN MUNROE STOWE contributes to 
the Youth’s Companion an article on “Har-
riet Beecher Stowe as a Mother.” It is full 
of tender reminiscences.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms; one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel 
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every 
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to
			Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1899


[Column 1]
“THE FIRST OF JUNE,” 1899, AT SALTAIR.

	The day was not so fair and beautiful as
the celebrating relatives and friends of the
honored and beloved Prophet, President
Brigham Young, might have wished for
his ninety-eighth birthday. But notwith-
standing the fact that sudden gusts of wind
and intermittent rain showers prevented a
great many from venturing out to the Lake,
there were still many hundreds that did
venture, and were well paid for doing so.
And when it is taken into consideration
that Sister Zina D. H. Young was at Salt-
air, the place appointed for the great cele-
bration, from 10 a. m. until 7 p. m., and
received no harm but was feeling quite
well the next day, it is easy to believe that
no participant received anything but good
from the day’s outing.
	A description of how the tables were
spread and the edibles served and enjoyed,
or of the dancing and gaiety with which
the celebration closed at 10 in the evening,
can hardly be given space in this brief
notice. Those pleasant festivities, however,
will long be remembered with peculiar
satisfaction by many of the younger and
gayer portion of the committee. And the
program proper was excellent.
	At three o’clock when Elder B. Morris
Young announced that the program was
about to commence, a happy circumstance
occurred for rather a small part of the
listeners. It was that they found them-
selves in comfortable seats near enough to
the stand to be able to hear distinctly what
would be said from it. The only regret
then for such ones was that so many of
their friends were not equally well provided
for.
	Some of the members of the Temple choir
with their conductor, Brother Charles J.
Thomas, opened the exercises by singing
President Young’s favorite hymn, “O, my
Father,” in the old, familiar tune to which
it was first sung. This brought tender re-
membrances of childhood’s days, when
“little Mormons” learned to sing those
soul-inspiring words in their humble homes,
and to better understand their true relation-
ship to Deity because of the grand lesson
they so plainly teach. To one “little Mor-
mon,” at least, those lines were a first intro-
duction to the name of their gifted author,
Eliza R. Snow.
	After prayer by Elder Royal B. Young,
and singing again by the choir. Apostle 
Brigham Young made a short but feeling

[Column 2]
address, in which reference was gratefully
made to the appropriateness of the gather-
ing in honor of his father’s memory. And
he blest the people much as his father used
to do in such assemblies.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman told of the great
love the Prophet Brigham Young had for
his people, his wisdom in leading them,
and the consequent love and confidence
the people always felt and manifested to-
wards him. Choice selections by the band
were next rendered.
	Senator Joseph L. Rawlins claimed for
Brigham Young the right of recognition as
a great man, not only among his own peo-
ple, not only in his own nation, but in the
history of mankind; and said that ere long
his statue would be placed alongside of
those of other great men in the statuary
hall at Washington. The enduring super-
structure upon which this State—regarded
as one of the most substantial, intelligent
and progressive in the Union—has been
erected, the Senator attributed to the wise
and earnest teachings of Brigham Young to
his people.
	Governor Heber M. Wells, in tender,
loving memories of his “great, dear, kind
Uncle Brigham,” his “father’s best friend,”
spoke the sentiments of a large majority of
the people of Utah who were little children
in the early days of its settlement. The
tribute he paid to Brigham Young’s great-
ness and goodness, the grandeur of his
character, gave voice to the impressions
which are stamped indelibly upon the
hearts of thousands and tens of thousands
of those who were children thirty, forty and
fifty years ago. Of the greatness of Presi-
dent Young as a leader, a statesman and
builder, and his goodness as a kind and
wise father of his people, and friend of man-
kind, nothing seemed to be omitted in the
Governor’s remarks. It was clearly shown
that none but a large-souled, generous and
pure-hearted man, highly favored, inspired
and endowed with power from on high,
could have been what Brigham Young was,
or accomplished the work which he did.
	Judge Kinney, who was chief justice of
Utah Territory some years in the Fif-
ties, and came here recently from California,
was introduced to the assembly and re-
ceived with warm applause. For he was
remembered by many as “a friend to Brig-
ham Young and his people,” an unusual
 thing for a government official in those
early days of misrepresentation and perse-
cution.
	By the Judge was given a character
sketch of President Young, illustrated by
telling incidents with which he was himself
personally connected. He placed the great
leader in the true light of a mighty man,
wise, just, honest and benevolent.
	While Judge Kinney related historic cir-
cumstances of more than forty years ago, a
certain copy of the Deseret News presented
itself to the mind’s eye, recalling vividly to
memory the fact that the Judge had, dur-
ing those days of his residing in Utah,
suffered a great loss which might have
helped to strengthen the bond of sympathy
which was created between himself and the
man of whom he was speaking. Surely he
had known sorrow, and evidently the voice
of sympathy found utterance for him. The
copy of the News referred to contained
something in connection with the name of
the speaker which made so deep an im-
pression upon the mind of a child as to be
distinctly remembered while listening to
his words, although not seen, perhaps

[Column 3]
not thought of, for years and years. The
well remembered article was as follows:

LINES
Affectionately inscribed to Judge and Mrs. Kin-
ney on the death of their little son Renfrew.
BY S. E. CARMICHEL.
THE BEAUTIFUL ONE WITH GOD.
“The roses bloom, the roses fade;
The sunlight comes and goes;
The moonbeams weave a silvery braid,
With the white, drifting snows.
But the call of spring will never bring,
Nor the smile of the morning wake,
The floweret fair with the shining hair,
That the angels came to take.
And never again will a path of pain
By his shuddering feet be trod;
There are no tears in the coming years,
For the beautiful one with God.

“The roses bloom, the roses fade,
Fade over his early sleep;
O’er the soft brow under the grasses laid,
Stilled by a calm so deep!
But the look of care on his forehead fair.
The smile that his bright lips wore, 
And the soul replies of his sunny eyes,
These are of earth no more.
These were not laid ’mid the grasses’ shade,
Nor pillowed beneath the sod;
And they live unveiled where the stars are
	paled,
With the beautiful one with God.”

	To conclude the program, Dr. Seymour
B. Young sang another favorite song of
President Young’s, “Hard times come
again no more,” the congregation joining
in the chorus. With this came pleasant
memories of how the doctor used to sing
in former days; and how our mothers have
told us of still earlier times, when the 
brother Joseph and Brigham were called
“The sweet singers of Zion.”
	The benediction was pronounced by
Stake President Angus M. Cannon.
	Although socially the celebration was an
admirable success, on account of the threat-
ening aspect of the weather the attendance
was not sufficient to secure financial satis-
faction The returns, if there were any,
after expenses were all paid, were so small
that the committees design making another
effort in the near future, to raise means by
which to assist in paying off the still re-
maining indebtedness for the Brigham
Young Monument.
	The fact that Presidents Lorenzo Snow
and Joseph F. Smith and several of the
Twelve Apostles were present at Saltair for
a portion of the day, should not be over-
looked, although none except those already
mentioned took part in the program.
						L. L. G. R.


A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands 
1850.]
After exchanging tears and adieux six
wagons started on, twenty-four persons in
all, expecting to overtake a small company
at Bear river. We found the Weber river
high, the water running over the middle of
the bridge. We got safely over, called at
Brown’s Fort, where dinner was prepared
for us by a good sister whose name is
Abigail Abbot, a neighbor in Nauvoo. She
made me a present of a good cheese. Her
daughters accompanied us on horseback
several miles.
We came to Ogden river; had an almost
perpendicular hill to come down. The men
let the wagons down by the help of ropes;
had a severe time crossing the water. After
we crossed the bridge the wagons mired.
The men were in the water up to their
waists more than an hour. Mr. Tompkins
was wroth because some who got over first


[Column 1]
did not come back to help others. He had
cause to be angry. After we were out of
the water it began to rain severely. We
traveled three miles and camped at Brother
Chase's to wait for fair weather. We heard
afterwards the Weber bridge washed away
the night after we crossed over. Who can
say we did not cross in the right time?
	We came to Bear river; found President
Clark's company waiting for us. With
great exertion we got the cattle over; camped
on the bank.
	The 13th day we crossed Malad creek,
one of the most intolerable places my eyes
ever beheld. Cattle and men up to their
backs in mud for twenty rods and more.
What a world is this! thought I. Men
will travel over it, however impossible it
may seem to be. We got out of the mud
at last; camped at two o'clock. I have a
great aversion to camping before night. I
cannot feel well when a good day's drive
has not been accomplished.
	In the afternoon the company was organ-
ized, passing resolutions to keep the Sab-
bath day, likewise to have morning and
evening prayers. H. Clark was president;
W. Huntington, counselor. We have
music in the camp, two violins and a flute.
Besides there are many singing birds in this
country, which delighted me very much.
Now twenty four miles from Bear river, a
place of hills and dales. Sister C. Crosby
and I walked out among the hills. As we
were returning, two bullets whistled by our
heads; we started with fear! We came to
camp; found Hanks and Moses had been
firing guns for sport, not knowing any one
had gone out. They were admonished to
be more cautious. The evening was spent
in singing hymns and spiritual songs.
How comforting to have prayers in this
lonely spot of earth! What an idle life to
travel with ox teams! And yet no other
would do so well on such roads. I gaze
around me; see the wagons all corralled;
cattle lying down at night. Scenes of other
days come vividly to mind. What wander-
ing pilgrims we have been!
	The 18th day traveled twenty miles;
camped at three o'clock. I walked alone;
climbed upon a huge pile of rocks. From
their heights I had a full view of the sur-
rounding country. I called to mind the
lapse of ages those cragged rocks had re-
mained there! They were covered with
moss of various colors. I examined every
part of them with intense interest. I gazed
towards the valley, where I had left the
Saints; an ardent desire sprang up in my
heart that I might live to return to them.
	The 23rd, on account of the Cazyer river
being too high to be forded, we had to go
around the mountains. We came to camp
at four o'clock; called the place City Rocks.
We all went out on an exploring excursion;
returned fatigued, but much amused. The
beautiful white rocks resembling marble
made us wish they were in some location
where they could be made available.
	21st. We have been traveling over moun-
tains all day, the most delightful scenery
my eyes have ever beheld. Ridges of hills
of all sizes and shapes, variegated with
shrubbery, mostly cedar. The hills resem-
ble the orchards of New England. What a
prospect for a painter! I found stones I
called carnelian. White clay, of which the
boys made pipes, was found in quantities.
Snow storms overtook us; we could not
start till one o'clock. Mr. Tomkins found a
sheet-iron stove and gave it to me. I found
it very useful.

[Column 2]
	The 30th day, started very early, trav-
eled a short distance; came to a stream of
water called Martin's Fork. We found
written on a board, "Too deep to ford, re-
move your loading, prepare a wagon bed
for a boat." We did so and all got safely
over with hard labor. Very deep mire on
both sides. The brethren were all merry,
making a scene of amusement of it.
	The 31st, crossed one of the tributaries of
the St. Mary's river. Made a bridge of
willows, drew the wagons over by hand.
When the last wagon was over the men
commenced halloing at the top of their
voices. The next crossing was effected by
doubling teams.
	The 1st day of June crossed Martin's
Fork. The water being high, we took
everything from the bottom of our wagons
and piled them on our bedsteads; by that
means we got safely through. The same
day one of the Indian boys belonging to
the company put a can of powder into my
stove. Not for mischief; but coming in
from hunting, the stove being tied on the
outside, he thought to remove it as soon as
we came into camp, but, boy-like, he for-
got it. I built my fire and put my kettle
on. Once I removed the kettle, and lean-
ing over, stirred the fire. My cow was
grazing a little way off. An impression
came to me, as if some one had whispered,
"Walk out where your cow is and look at
her." I did so, and while I was standing
there I heard a report like a cannon fired.
I returned immediately, found my stove
blown over the top of a covered wagon. It
was crushed as with a sledge hammer. My
kettle was set upon the ground badly
bruised. The boy was severely repri-
manded, and I had serious reflections the
remainder of the day. The fact of my be-
ing warned to walk away from the spot an
instant before the explosion, caused me to
realize that a protecting care was held over
me, and that my guardian angel must have
been very near me, for which I felt thank-
ful. Some there were who felt as I did,
were serious over the affair. The more
giddy portion were disposed to ridicule the
effect it had upon me, and in their fool-
hardiness would laugh at the idea of being
solemn at the instance of so marvelous an
escape.
[To be continued.]


WGMAN'S EXPONENT. 13


[Column 1]

INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL.

DATES AND DISTRIBUTION OF MEETINGS.
The meetings will open on Monday,
June 26th, at 2:30 p. m., and will conclude
on Wednesday, July 5th, with a session con-
vened at 10 a. m.
The latest revised notes of the program
show that there will be five sessions of the 
International Council, as follows:
Monday, June 26th, 2:30 p. m., in the
Large Hall, Westminster Town Hall.
Wednesday, June 28th, 10 a. m., Coun-
cil Chamber Westminster Hall.
Thursday, June 29th, 10 a. m., Large
Hall, Westminster Town Hall.
Tuesday, July 4th, 10 a. m., Large Hall,
Westminster Town Hall.
Wednesday, July 5th, 10 a. m., place
not yet selected.
The International Congress, convened
under the auspices of the International
Council is divided into sections, as fol-
lows:
I. The Educational Section, which will
hold eleven meetings, most of which are

[Column 2]
set for the Large Hall in Westminster
Town Hall.
II. The Professional Section, which
will hold fifteen meetings in the Council
Chamber in Westminster Town Hall, and
in different apartments in St. Martin’s
Town Hall. 
IV. The Political Section, which will
hold five meetings in the Great Hall in St.
Martin’s Town Hall.
The Social Section, which will hold
eleven meetings, chiefly in the Convocation
Hall of Church House, Westminster.
The number of speakers, their representa-
tive positions, and: the different countries ot 
which they belong indicate a program of
unprecedented versatility and value.
Letters yet arrive by almost every mail
asking questions, which I shall seek to
answer in this article.
I. Who are eligible to attend meetings
of the Council and the Congress? The pub-
lic meetings of both, that is, the meetings
at which the programmes are rendered,
may be attended by anyone wishing to buy
tickets. The applicatio[-]s for these tickets
are in three forms:
(a) Is for ordinary tickets of member-
ship in the Congress, the price of which is
seven shillings and sixpence, or, in Ameri-
can currency, $1.75.
(b) May be applied for by any member
of any organization affiliated to any Nation-
al Council, the price of this is five shillings,
or in American currency, $1.25.
(c) May be applied for by any official
of any organization affiliated in any Nation-
al Council.
These forms may be had upon application
to the writer of this letter. The money
for tickets must in all cases be sent to the
Honorable Treasurer, from whom tickets
may be secured, International Congress
Fund, General Post Office, London.
These tickets, it will be understood, ad-
mit only to the public meetings. The
business meetings of the International
Council are only open to the following:
The officers of the International; the ac-
credited delegates from each National Con-
gress; the honorary president and delegates
from countries where no National Councils
are yet formed.
II. Who are the delegates to the Coun-
cil? Delegates may be sent to the Inter-
national Council only by National Councils
affiliated with the International Council.
Each National Council may send two dele-
gates, who, with its president, constitute
the sole representatives of the National
Council in the International. The Nation-
al Council of the United States will be rep-
resented in the International by Mrs. Fan-
nie Humphreys Gaffney of New York, its
president, and Miss Susan B. Anthony and
Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, the delegates
elect. Mrs. Hannah J. Bailey and Mrs.
Ellen A. Richardson are the alternates
elect for the two delegates above named.
In the presence of delegates alternates will
have no place in the International Council
sessions but that of observers.
It seems very important to emphasize 
these facts. I have received many letters
from different parts of the country from
local clubs, county and state societies, in-
forming me that “So and So have been
elected delegates to the International Coun-
cil,” and asking credentials. It is very
important that it be understood that of even 
NationalCouncils only those affiliated with an
International Council can send delegates to
this body. It is well known what National


[Column 1]
Organizations and what Local Councils are
affiliated with the National Council of the
United States. All members of such
National Organizations and such Local
Councils are, through the National Council
to which they belong, members also of the 
International Council; but with the excep-
tion of the women above named these are
not delegates, and their respective organiza-
tions may not independently send delegates
to the International Council.
Besides these regular official delegates the
International Council has invited fraternal
delegates from two classes of organizations:
From National Councils not yet affiliated
with the International Council, and from
International Organizations. So many
organizations are nominally international
that are really not so, that it is most im-
portant to be extremely careful, even in
establishing so slight a bond between the
International Council and the organization
as is implied in the invitation to the latter
to send a fraternal delegate. At the present
time the following organizations, with vary-
ing claims to a recognition of their Inter-
national scope, have been invited to send
fraternal delegates: The Arbitration and 
Peace Society; the Red Cross Federation;
the International Union of Friends of
Young Women; the International Associa-
tion for the Abolition of the State Regula-
tion of Vice; the World’s Woman’s Chris-
tian Temperance Union; the Young Wo-
man’s Christian Association, and the Gen-
eral Federation of Women’s Clubs.
It is probable that to this brief list the 
International Order of King’s Daughters
will be added.
It is important that it be understood that
the above organizations have no claim upon
the International Council, excepting that
of courtesy, and that their members, unless
related to the International Council through
their membership in some organization
affiliated with the National Council, are
eligible to apply for only the ordinary ticket
of admission to the Congress.
These statements are thus explicitly made
that there may be no embarrassment exper-
ienced later. It will certainly be under-
stood that they are not made because of
any desire on the part of the officers
of the International Council to ex-
clude desirable women from either Council
or Congress; on the other hand, the most
persistent, patient efforts have been made
during eleven years to diffuse an under-
standing of the organization of the National
Council and the International. The rela-
tion is so logical that the decisions made by
the Committee of Arrangements for the
Quinquennial meeting of the Council and
for the International Congress to be held in
connection with it and under its auspices,
must be regarded, not only just to the
organizations constituting the Council, but
very generous to the organizations still out-
side of the Council. 
III. What Americans will participate in
the Council, and what ones will take part
in the Congresses?
As voters there will sit in the Internation-
al Council, Mrs. May Wright Sewall,
vice-president at large; Mrs. Gaffney, Miss 
Anthony and Mrs. Shaw, in the capacities
above indicated, and only these. But as
participants in discussions, Mrs. Maria
Purdy Peck, vice-president of the National
Council, and Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
second recording secretary; with the follow-
ing patrons of the National Council: Miss

[Column 2]
Mary S. Anthony, Rochester; Miss Lucy
E. Anthony, Philadelphia; Mrs. Mary S.
Bybee, Indianapolis; Mrs. Ralph Emerson,
Rockford, Ill.; Mrs. Emily Cross, Chicago;
Mrs. Emma Shafter Howard, Oakland,
Cal.; Rev. Ida C. Hulton, Moline, Illinois;
Dr. Hannah E. Longshore, Philadelphia;
Mrs. Elizabeth Claridge McCune, Salt
Lake City; Mrs. Alice Wheeler Pierce,
Indianapolis; Mrs. Virginia T. Smith, Hart-
ford, and Mrs. Lucy B. Young, Salt Lake
City, are now expecting to be present.
Many of the above have also a part in
the formal program, as have also the fol-
lowing:
Miss Sadie American, Chicago; Mrs.
Cynthia Westover Alden, N. Y.; Miss
Octavia W. Bates, Detroit; Mrs. Harriet Santon
Blatch; Mrs. Isabelle C. Barrows; Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine, Salt Lake City; Mrs.
Lavina Doch, N. Y. City; Mrs. Sarah J.
Farmer, Greenacre, Elliott, Maine; Mrs.
Susa Young Gates, Provo City; Mrs. E. B.
Grannis, N.Y. City; Miss S. Goldmarck, N.
Y. City; Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, Washing-
ton, D. C.; Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, De-
troit; Miss Emily Howland, Sherwood, N.
Y.; Mrs. Adelaide Johnson, Washington D.
C.; Mrs. Annie White Johnson, Chicago;
Mrs. Ellen C. Johnson, South Framingam,
Mass.; Miss Helen Kinne, Columbia Uni-
versity; Miss Klumpke, Cal; Mrs. Rebecca
D. Lowe, Atlanta, Ga.; Mrs. Mary F. Lov-
ell, Bryn Mawr; Miss Maxwell, Atlanta;
Mrs. Jenness Miller, N. Y.; Mrs. Frederick
Nathan, N. Y.; Miss Plummer, Mrs. Quan-
ter, Mrs. Isabella Hunter Robb, Cleveland;
Mrs. Cornelia S. Robinson, N. Y. City; Dr.
Sarah Hackett Stevenson, Chicago; Mrs.
Charlotte Perkins Stetson, Hartford; Miss
Mary Shaw, N. Y. City; Miss Emily Sar-
tain, Philadelphia; Miss Genevieve Ward,
N. Y. City; Dr. Gertrude Walker, Phila-
delphia.
Thus it will be seen that fifty-one of the
American women who are in some way
connected with the Council and the Con-
gress expect to be present.
When do Americans go? In reply to
this very frequent question, I must say that
no ship will carry all of them. Several are
already abroad; one small party of Ameri-
cans sailed on May 25th; another large
party with Miss Anthony as its leader on
June 3rd; a small party with Mrs. Sewall
on June 8th; the last with Mrs. Gaffney on
June 14th; and doubtless many are going on
other dates.
The correspondence which has resulted
in securing so large a representation of our
countrywomen in London has covered
many months. As the date approaches and
evidences of augmented interest multiply,
women who in the beginning were invited
to a place on the program are reconsider-
ing their earlier refusals. It is in no spirit
of tit for tat that the information must
frequently be given that the place declined
has been filled by some one else.
The Committee of Arrangements sitting
in London has done an enormous amount
of work. A copy of the minutes of each
session are in my hands, and they show
painstaking preparation and an elaboration
of detail which can be conceived only by
one with experience in such undertakings.
The latest notes reveal the greatest kind-
ness and zeal on the part of the Entertain-
ment and Hospitality Committees. The
list of entertainments contains the following:
(a) Reception and welcome of the In-
ternational delegates on Monday, June 26th,
at the Westminster Town Hall, which may

[Column 3]
be attended also by members of the Con-
gress.
(b) On the evening of the same day, a
reception at the Stafford House, where the
Duchess of Sutherland with the president
of the International Council, will receive
the guests. Holders of tickets for the
sectional meetings of the Congress (after
their names have been submitted to a sub-
committee on arrangements) may purchase
tickets for this reception at five shillings
each. Invitations will be issued to the In-
ternational delegates and invited speakers
in the name of the sub-committee of ar-
rangements.
(c) On the evening of Wednesday, June
28th, Lady Battersea will invite delegates
and speakers to Surrey House.
(d) On July 1st, the Bishop of London
and Mrs. Creighton will give a party at
Fulham Palace, to which members of the
Congress will be invited.
(e) On Tuesday, July 4th, Lady Roths-
child and Mrs. Leopold Rothschild will in-
vite members of the Congress to a garden
party at Gunnersburg Park.
(f) The President of the International
Council will entertain the delegates of the
Congress at a farewell gathering on the
evening of July 4th.
Besides the above large social entertain-
ments there are forerunners of numerous
more private hospitalities.
Through this public channel I beg to re-
mind the speakers that a typewritten copy
of their addresses, if not already in the
hands of the corresponding secretary, should
be sent at the earliest possible date to her
address, Miss Teresa F. Wilson, 9 Members
Mansion, Victoria St., S. W. London.
 The preparations are sufficiently advanced
to assure us that the second Quinquennial
of the International Council, and the Con-
gress held under its auspices, with all the
subsidiary events connected with it, will
constitute an opportunity for intellectual
and social experiences of a unique character.
American women who are to go abroad
this summer, whether related to the Coun-
cil or participants in the Congress, will
surely find that an attendance upon the
Congress will largely enhance the pleasure
of the ordinary visit to London.
The Hospitality Committee has had pre-
pared with great care a list of the hotels 
and boarding houses and lodging houses,
with a statement of cost and distance from
the seat of meeting, together with other in-
formation that will facilitate the ease of
getting settled upon arrival and of getting
about to the meetings. I have already
sent out to all who I know anticipate
going to London a parcel of the latest docu-
ments relating to the International Council,
together with forms of application for
tickets, and circulars of advice concerning
boarding houses. Large numbers of these
papers remain in my hands, and will be
sent gladly upon application to women de-
siring the information which they contain.
A rendezvous for American delegates, to the
Council and American members to the Con-
gress will soon be determined upon, and
the address may be obtained upon applica-
tion to me. All delegates, participants in
the program and members of the Congress
are desired upon arriving in London to
communicate their respective addresses to
the writer at the London address given be-
low. It will be my pleasure to give every
aid to my countrywomen in making the
Congress and its advantages accessible to
them. If this article should awaken in the


minds of its readers a question which it
does not answer, I shall gladly give further
information upon application.
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	Address to June 1st, 633 North Pennsyl-
vania St., Indiana.  After June 1st.  9 
Members' Mansion, Victoria Street, Lon-
don, England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
.


OBITUARY. 
Dear Aunt Rhoda, as we lovingly termed her, 
passed from death into eternal life at Provo, March
29, 1899; and while her body rests, peacefully in 
the silent tomb awaiting the resurrection of the 
just, her spirit is associating with friends and 
loved ones gone before. 
	Mother Young was born in Putnam Co., Tennes-
see, Oct. 24, 1820.  She became a member of the 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 
1842.  Moved to Nauvoo, where she became 
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. 
In 1852 she with her husband, Adolphin Young, 
started for Salt Lake City.  She lost her husband 
by death on the plains.  She afterwards married 
Alfred D. Young, the cousin of her former hus-
band.  They went to the Muddy, where they re-
mained until the mission was abandoned. They 
then moved to Kanab, where she made her home 
until the time of her death. 
	She was left a widow for the second time in 
1889. She was the mother of twelve children, 
and had at the time of her death seventy-five 
grandchildren and forty-nine great-grandchildrne.
	Sister Young was a faithful Latter-day Saint, 
and like a shock of wheat fully ripe, she has been 
garnered into her Father's house.  "Blessed are 
they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, 
for they shall be filled." 
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas the Lord has called from our midst by 
the hand of death our beloved sister, 
RESOLVED, That we recognize in the death of 
our worthy sister the loss of a worthy member, 
and, when younger, an efficient teacher in the 
Kanab ward.
	RESOLVED, That we deeply sympathize with the 
bereaved family in the loss of a kind and affection-
ate mother. 
RESOLVED, That we esteem her past faithful 
labors as worthy the fellowship and highest respect 
of us all.
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be put upon 
our records, that a copy of the same be presented 
to the family, and also to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
		ELIZABETH W. ROBINSON.
	The angel of death has visited another house in 
Kanab ward;  Elizabeth W. Robinson, wife of 
Bishop R. S. Robinson, passed peacefully away, 
Feb. 13, 1899.
	Sister Robinson was born at Staffordshire, Eng-
land, Nov. 5, 1835.  She emigrated to America in 
1842 and to Nauvoo in 1843; was driven with the 
Saints in 1846.  She came to Utah in 1849; was 
married to Richard S. Robinson; moved to Kanab 
in 1886, where her husband had been called to 
preside as Bishop.  Here she identified herself 
with the Relief Society and became an active 
member.  She was quiet and unassuming, yet 
kind and courteous to all.
	She was the mother of twelve children, and 
leaves thirty grandchildren and two great-grand-
children.  She had been a great sufferer for a 
long time when death kindly released her.  It can
truly be said of her:  "O, death! where is thy 
sting? O, grave! where is thy victory? Blessed 
are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth." 
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas an Allwise Providence has called from 
our midst by death our beloved sister, 
	RESOLVED, That we recognize in the death of our 
sister the loss of a worthy member, an affectionate 
teacher and a good Latter-day Saint, and worthy 
the respect of all. 
	RESOLVED, That we deeply sympathize with the 
bereaved family in the loss of a kind wife and 
affectionate mother.
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed  upon 
our record and that a copy of the same be presen-
ted to the bereaved family, also to the WOMAN'S 
EXPONENT for publication.
M. E. LITTLE.


MODESTY in a woman is like color on her 
cheeks--very becoming if not put on.


PEACE MEETING, ORANGEVILLE.
	The ladies of this place joined their forces
in a peace meeting the evening of May 15th
according to request, and rendered the fol-
lowing programme:
	Congregational singing, “The Star Span-
gled Banner.” Prayer by the chaplain,
F. W. Young. Singing, “America.” The
“Appeal to Utah Women,”' in the Des-
eret News, read by Mrs. Maria Guymon.
An address by Mrs. Sarah A. Fullmer on
“The Importance of Arbitration.” A speech
by Mr. Jasper Robertson. A paper by J.
C. Childs on “The Importance of Peace.”
Song by Mrs. Maggie Cox and company,
“Break the News to Mother.” Speech by
J. K. Reid. Speech by B. F. Luke on
“The Educational Side for Peace.” Song
by Mrs. Hattie Reid and Mrs. Amanda Tut-
tle. Resolutions by Mrs. R. E. Robertson
Instrumental music by the Johnson band,
which was encored. Speech by U. E.
Curtis. Recitation by Kate Van Buren,
“The Returned Soldier.” Prayer by the
chaplain.
	The evening was a success. The hall
was artistically decorated with flags and
bunting, with an attentive audience that
joined in singing the closing piece, “Colum-
bia the Gem of the Ocean.”
					JOSIE E. CHILDS.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
JOSEPA RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The Josepa Relief Society will have been
organized ten years next October. Sister
Emily G. Cluff was the first president,
with Sisters Kapukini and Pakekepa as her
counselors. Upon the release of President
H. H. Cluff on November 1, 1890, and
the appointment of Elder William King
his successor, Sister Lucy King succeeded
Sister Cluff, but in February, 1892, Brother
King died, and H. H. Cluff was again
called to preside over the colony, and there
followed the reappointment of Sister E. G.
Cluff to the presidency of the Relief Society,
which position she has continuously accept-
ed up to the present.
	The society has had a marked increase
numerically and financially since its or-
ganization, forty members are enrolled,
with an average attendance of thirty. By
gleaning in the wheat field and by dona
tion the society has accumulated forty
bushels of wheat. Members of the society
encouraged in gathering wheat desired to
have a piece of land and cultivate wheat
this summer, but upon the suggestion of
President Cluff the society have planted an
acre into melons, which have a ready sale
among the Hawaiians, and we anticipate
realizing $100.00 with which to buy wheat.
	The Relief Society has provided itself
with a full set of dishes for a banquet suf-
ficient to accomodate one hundred and
twenty-five persons. When used for the
feasts of the colony, other than the annual
feast gotten up by the society, a fee is
charged for the use of them, in addition to
replacing breakage and loss. The number
of annual feasts of the colony aggregate five
or six. When President Joseph F. Smith
and Elders visit the colony several times
during the year the Hawaiian people de-
light in entertaining them with feasts.
	At our recent conference here we were
visited by fourteen brethren and sisters.
Among the visitors were Sister Margaret
A. Caine, who came in the interest of seri-

[Column 2]
culture. Here she met Sister M. A. Till,
of Provo, who is on a visit, and who has
for some time recommended the silk indus-
try among this people, feeling they were
well adapted to it. She fully intended try-
ing to get it introduced among them while
out here. Sisters Till and Cluff had been
to the City and County Building to see the
silk exhibit, and to ask Mrs. Caine to send
out eggs and books of instruction, with the
intention of getting the Hawaiian sisters
started in raising cocoons. Meetings were
called to explain and get the sisters inter-
ested, and Mrs. Caine showed some native
silk fabric made in Utah, and gave such
information as would induce the sisters to
go into the enterprise. Elder Robert Tay-
lor, a missionary to the Islands, and who
had had some experierce with his mother
in raising cocoons when a boy, interpreted
for Mrs. Caine, and the progress in the first
effort of the Hawaiian sisters in raising silk
will be reported in due time. We already
have quite a number of mulberry trees to
start with.
	The colony anticipates a visit during the
summer from Queen Liliokalani, on her re-
turn from Washington to the Islands.
There are over one hundred of her people
in this colony. All appear happy and con-
tented, and enjoy having the EXPONENT
interpreted to them in the meetings of the
Relief Society, and hope it may be amply
supported.
EMILY G. CLUFF, Prest.,
ELLEN HALEMANU, Secy.

	A Peace Meeting was held in this colony
on the 15th of May. The Hawaiian
brethren and sisters expressed a desire for
peace upon the earth. The program con-
sisted of speeches, prayer and songs. They
all believe in settling difficulties by arbi-
tration rather than resort to war, and unite
in asking the leaders of nations to adopt the
plan proposed.
HANNA RAAEPA, Sec.
EMERY STAKE.
	The Emery Stake Relief Society Con-
ference convened at Ferron, April 21, 1899,
President Annie U. Larsen in the chair.
	After the usual opening exercises Sister
Larsen addressed the conference, bade all
welcome and felt glad to see the brethren
with us. Desired the sisters would exer-
cise their faith, that we might call down
the blessings of God upon us, that we may
have a good time together. She desired
the report of the presidents.
	Sister Swensen, president of Ferron, re-
ported the society of that place united and
willing to do what was required of them.
They had a society house nearly completed,
anticipated its completion this summer.
	Sister Jorgensen, Emery, reported her
society in a flourishing condition; all was
peace and harmony. They had one hun-
dred and seventy bushels of wheat, which,
according to the number of members, was a
good showing. The Bishop asked the sis-
ters to aid in building a meeting house.
	Sister Caroline Larsen, Castle Dale, re-
ported the society in a prosperous condition.
The sisters were feeling all right, and will-
ing to do what was required. They had
sixty bushels of wheat, a number of quitls
and considerable carpet-rags on hand. Gave
a good many notes from the General Relief
Society Conference at Salt Lake City in
April, also told how Sister Zina blessed all
the Relief Society. She was pleased to see
all the Stake presidency at the conference


and hoped we would be blessed with an
abundance of the Spirit of the Lord, which
she felt assured we would.
	Sister Robertson reported Orangeville
as doing well. Felt proud to report such a
noble band of sisters. They did a good
work in many ways and were making a
great effort to complete their house this
summer.
	The counselor of Molen reported their
society as doing well for so few in number.
They had donated to the Stake Academy,
and were ever willing to do what they
could at all times. There were only nine
branches reported in the statistical report
read by Sister Cox.
	President Larsen was pleased with the
reports of the society, especially with what
they had done for the Stake Academy, the
report showing that the amount of $55 00
had been given by the Relief Society of
Emery Stake. “Let us appreciate the
privileges we enjoy, and never forget our
prayers. We should cultivate punctuality
and a love for each other.”
	Sister Washburn reported Huntington,
felt all was well with the sisters, she knew
of few difficulties existing among them.
Hoped we would all remain faithful.
	Sister Childs reported Price, having been
there lately and being requested by the
president, Sister Pace, to do so should they
fail to send a representative. The sisters
at Price were doing very well, and in every-
thing were abreast with their sister towns.
They with others had donated liberally to
the Academy.
	Brother Lambert, of Salt Lake City, was
pleased to hear the reports[-] it was very
gratifying to him. Felt that we should all
live so that we could cultivate faith, as it
was a gift that was affected by the lives we
lived. Gave as an object lesson a circum-
stance that he was cognizant of, where
two families were living so near to the re-
quirements of the Lord that through the
faith they were able to exercise one of their
little ones was restored to life, that had
been dead for one and a half hours. Had
they not been living so perfectly their faith
would not have been equal for the unusual
emergency.
	The forenoon meeting was brought to a
close by the choir singing “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet,” etc.
MRS. STEVENS, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Semi-Monthly Meeting convened May
18, 1899, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Singing, “Where the voice of friendship’s
heard.” Prayer by Sister Julia C. Howe.
Singing, “Though nations rise.” Minutes
read and accepted.
	Sister L. D. Alder read the appeal made
to the women of Utah on the peace move-
ment.
	President Horne asked the sisters assem-
bled if they would like to turn this meeting
into a peace meeting. We as Latter-day
Saints always want peace, but we know
that in the fulfilling of prophecy there will
be contention. When we and all the world
are calling for peace, we will unite with all
to bring about peace as far as it is possible,
we will keep the commandments of God.
She knew that the prayers of the people
would result in good. Spoke of the mis-
sion of Jesus Christ, how the people doubted
His testimony, and how they also doubt
the same Gospel today. Spoke of the in-
fluence of women, even from the beginning

[Column 2]
of the world, and of the mission of Joseph
Smith and the persecution he was obliged
to endure. Wondered if all realize we are
so near to the end, and that, as the Savior
says, it will come suddenly.
	Sister L. D. Alder said she had been
visiting the Pocatello Stake in company
with Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, in regard to organ-
izing classes in obstetrics and nursing.
There was much need of such teaching,
there are so few obstetricians and the people
are so scattered, it is so hard upon the sick
as well as those who attend to them. Dr.
Shipp has organized classes and with ap-
parent success. Sister Alder expects to go
abroad before this meeting convenes again,
but asked the sisters to pray for her in her
absence. She has had the promise to go
and labor among her kindred. Thought
the peace meeting was an inspiration from
God.
	Sister Brown said “God moves in a
mysterious way.” She thought of all peo-
ple we were the most blessed; spoke of the
peace that Temple work brought to us, ex-
horted all who could to spend one day in a
month to go to the Temple and save souls.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said all
our meetings were peace meetings; only
the Latter-day Saints could enjoy this per-
fect peace. Spoke of the blessing derived
from reading the life of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and interesting our children in his
mission, and of the waste of time in read-
ing light literature. Said we should all be
missionaries, not waste our time. Let us
all come here often and have our peace
meetings, and induce all to come. Said
that she appreciated the necessity of having
nurses trained to care for the poor and the
sick.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “O, Jesus the
Giver,” also spoke of the sacrifices the wo-
men of God would make. Spoke of the
testimonies she had been permitted to bear
to her kindred in the old country, and
prayed that Sister Alder would enjoy the
same blessing.
	Sister Phelps said we were serving a
God of power and revelation. Said we had
been begging for peace ever since the
Prophet Joseph Smith had organized the
Church, but nothing can thwart the pur-
poses of the Almighty, and He has said
that the wicked shall slay the wicked.
	Sister Brixen spoke of the importance of
teaching our children the ten command-
ments. Spoke of the great faith Moses
manifested, thought we should strive to
keep the commandments of God. Spoke
of the blessed time when we could live
upon the earth and say, “Thy will not
mine be done.”
	Sister Annie M. Cannon said we can
not expect universal peace over the earth,
but we can have peace by living the life of
a true Latter-day Saint. Highly approved
of the movement in training nurses all
over our State.
	Sister Susanna Fenamore spoke of her
desire for peace, and her love and desire to
work in the Temple.
	Sister Julia S. W[-]olley spoke of the
peace conference, and believed peace could
be brought about only by keeping the com-
mandments of God.
	Sister Julia C. Howe believed that the
predictions of prophets would come to pass,
that Christ was the author of peace, and
that Joseph the prophet was the forerunner
of the second coming of our Lord and
Savior. We must acknowledge the hand
of God in all things, we will be numbered

[Column 3]
among the jewels if we do our duty in
assembling ourselves together, etc. Spoke
of the necessity of teaching the children the
ten commandments and the keeping of the
Sabbath day.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction by Counselor
Webb.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


THE address, "Our Duty to the Women
of Our New Possessions," by Anna Garlin
Spencer, will be concluded in our next
issue.


Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.
TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 19, 1899.
ARRIVE.
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City
	and Denver...................................3:30 a.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butte and San
	Francisco.....................................8:55 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver 3:05 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco......7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and intermediate
	points.....................................9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points........6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus........................6 00 p.m.
DEPART.
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sas City and St. Louis........................7:00 a.m.
For Ogden, Cache Valley and intermediate points..8:00 a.m.
**For Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points......7:30 a.m.
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco 6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco......9:45 a.m.
**For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco............5:30 p.m.
*For Tooele and Terminus..........................7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays
	*Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street.
S. W. ECCLES,
Gen. Traffic Man[-]ger.
D E. BURLEY,
Gen. P. and T. Agent
W. H. BANCROFT.
Vice President and Gen’l Manager


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1899. No 3.


CONTENTS.
A Woman Missionary....Mrs. Addison Pratt  17.
Primary Anniversary at Murray..E. H.Lyon 18.
Reapers’ Club..................J. A. Druce 18.
Our Duty to the Women of Our New Posses-
sions..........Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer 19.
A Good Man Gone........................19.
Aunt Esther's Sweetheart..........Aunt Em 20.
New Organization...............Mary John 23.
Obituary—Mary G. W. Davis..M. A. Smart
Kate Platt Walker......Mary M. Lyman 23.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting..J.A. Woolley 23.
R.S. Reports—Emery Stake, St. George Julia
A. Pace............................... 24
Editorial:—Notes by the Way............ 20.
Poetry:—Lost Rosabell............L. M. H. 17.
To My Class............Lydia D. Alder 24.


LOST ROSABELL.
Long ago a star-eyed maiden,
	Filled my heart with love’s sweet spell.
As comes spring with young buds laden, 
	Sweet perfume from flowering dell,
Came this maiden (sweet to tell) 
And we called her Rosabell.
She to me was summer gladness,
	Breaking e'en drear winter's spell,
Gliding all that came of sadness,
	Charming grief away as well;
Giving joy tongue cannot tell,
Little star-eyed Rosabell.

Cheeks which borrowed rose-leaf shading,
	Eyes of violet's darkest hue, 
Eden’s sunshine, too, seemed woven, 
	In her dark-brown tresses thro’.
Grace and beauty knew her well,
Little charming Rosabell.

In the trees glad birds are singing,
	In the groves and in the fens, 
Brooks and rills with music ringing--
	Sweet.the songs of tiny wrens, 
Nature’s voice with music swells;
While I mourn lost Rosabell. 

All the meadows bloom with daisies,
	Fragrant blossoms in the dells
Breathe, in mute, yet sweetest praises,
	Yea, "He doeth all things well."
Yet no whispered voice will tell,
Of my long lost Rosabell. 

All the world is full of children, 
	Of their number none can tell, 
Blossoms in time’s earthly kingdom, 
	Seraphs here awhile to dwell,
Many in my heart are held, 
Yet I mourn lost Rosabell.
Now eve's purple glooms are stealing,
	Over hillsides, down the dells,
Backward still I turn in dreaming
	To the child I loved so well.
Gone from me! (Ah, sad to tell!) 
Lost for aye—my Rosabell.
			L. M. H.


(Column 1)
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			    [Continuted.]	
June 1st.  This day seven years since
my companion started on his mission to 
the Pacific Islands.  A day of days was
that to me!  Had I known on that day
what seven years’ experience would bring
to me, it seems to me one glimpse of it
would have struck me out of existence in
an instant!  It was wisely hidden from

(Column 2)
me. Sorrows mountains high have rolled
over me!  And yet I have withstood all 
the storms of adversity, am still alive, and
on my way to the Islands of the Sea to
teach the poor, dark people the Gospel that 
has cost me so much!
	The 2nd day.  Awnings are spread in
fron of our wagons where we are to hold
public worship.  Elder Joseph Busby made 
some spirited remarks.  All the speakers
acknowledged we had been signally blessed
on our journey.  The brethren decide on a 
frolic to help them over the impassable
gulphs and rocks; dust almost to suffoca-
tion.  I told the captain if he should send 
me ahead to explore I should return with
an evil report, and declare it impossible to
go that way.  St Mary’s river flows in 
grandeur here.  Dust we must have while 
we travel near it. 
	The 12th day.  Horn sounded at 4
o’clock, camp started before breakfast and 
traveled a short distance.  Stopped for the 
day to enjoy a good rain, which we have
long wished for. 
	The 14th day, A beautiful road all day.
Found a splendid camping ground; large
shrubbery on the banks of the river; good
wood.  Emigrants overtook us from Ohio,
they were out of provisions.  The com-
pany invited them to breakfast.  Sold them 
breadstuff. 
	The 15th day.  Made a blunder.  Trav-
eled ten miles in a wrong direction, a level
road but deep sand.  Came upon Capt.
Smith’s company, camped to spend the 
Sabbath.  Emigrants attended our meeting
at 2 o’clock. Brother Clark preached a 
Gospel sermon very much to the purpose.
Elder Busby bore testimony with great
warmth and readiness of expression.  After
meeting two strangers called upon us, who
said they were from Nauvoo; the very
sound of the name thrills through my
nerves!  Recollection of the past rushes to
my mind!  Emigrants from all parts are
thronging the way to the mines.  Little or
no provisions, with poor, worn-out animals.
	The 17th day.  A country of desolation
have we passed today.  Twenty-five miles 
without feed or water; barren, sandy plains.
Camped on a slough fed by St. Mary’s
river.  Our wagons stand on a ridge of 
rising ground, our fires blazing far below. 
The reflection on our white houses on
wheels presents a romantic sight.  The
moon shines with unusual brilliancy.  The
scenery in the evening is delightful.
	The 19th day.  Started on the desert;
filled everything with water.  The country
presents an exceedingly singular appear-
ance, perfectly level, has every sign of 
having been the bed of a mighty river.
The ground has a yellowish cast, without
a particle of vegetation.  Under the lee of 
the mountains there is the appearance of
water, very deceiving to the traveler; as we
approach it recedes from our view.  We
are reminded of what we have read and 
heard of an oasis, so alluring to the poor,
thirsty men and teams.  We are at length
safely over the desert; traveled till two
o’clock; rested the cattle till daylight;
started on again through deep sand.  I

(Column 3)
walked from sundown till eight o’clock. I
went into my wagon, slept awhile, then
walked again all of us till we came to Sal-
mon Trout river, ten o’clock we saw the 
water.  The poor cattle could scarcely be
kept from rushing into the river with the
wagons.  The men gave them water in
buckets, all they dared to let them drink.
	Badir, the socialist, has made trouble in
the camp by coming without supplies.
Mr. Mills, the phrenologist, who hired his
passage with him, is now destitute, like-
wise a family he engaged to take through.
Although the two men above mentioned
are not of our.faith, the brethren will not
see them want for food.
	Just over another twenty-mile desert
without feed or water; camped on the bank
of the river; a most delightful place!  The
trees are large and standing in close prox-
imity; heavy foliage.  Spent one whole 
day in settling difficulties; got them all set-
tled; retired to the grove and made a swing;
had a large rope suspended from a huge 
tree.  The moon arose about nine in all
its beauty, I have never witnessed grander
scenery! The towering trees, the mur-
muring waters, the clear blue sky be-
spangled with stars, the grand queen of 
night, all combined to make the scene
strikingly lovely!  Better than all we have
agreeable company.  The following day
traveled through deep mud and over rocks. 
Again on the Salmon Trout river; a de-
lightful place.
	The 27th.  Twenty miles today over
deep sand, not so rough as common.  The
mountains on one side covered with large 
pine trees growing quite to the summit,
from which flow out several beautiful
streams of swift running water; thick
shrubbery growing luxuriantly on either
bank; the broad prairie adorned with green
grass, resembling the meadows of New
England.  The whole scene is exquisitely
beautiful!  We have not seen on the whole
journey so rich a growth of grass.  Fare-
well to the deserts!  We have prophesied a 
settlement here in the future, one hundred
miles from the mines. 
	The 28th.  Started early and came to the 
mammoth pine trees.  I stood beneath the 
shade of one tree that would make lumber
enough to build two common houses.  To
see such astonishing trees growing out of 
sand and gravel, not a particle of soil, filled
every beholder with wonder and admiration.
We passed today beautiful streams of water
flowing down from the mountains, cold as 
ice and clear as crystal.  We have over-
taken Mr. E. Hanks's company, who left
Salt Lake valley three weeks before us. 
They have traveled on the Sabbath, we 
have not, and have gained on them.
	The 29th. This morning men were sent
ahead to explore the road over the moun-
tains.  Met travelers coming from the 
other side, who reported the road passable.
They concluded to relinquish the excursion
and to stop here several days.  The heat,
though excessive, is rendered more endur-
able by the cool breezes from the moun-
tains.  Emigrants are coming to our
camp half starved; we are compelled to


[Column 1]
feed them, cannot resist their entreaties.
Elder Moses delivered a lecture on the
doctrines of our Church, to which the
strangers listened with apparent interest.
Now at the base of the mountains of
rocks, covered with immense trees. What
supports the roots I cannot imagine. Not
the least appearance of soil. Seven miles
we traveled through the cañon, a road
too intolerable to think of. No person
looking at the opening would suppose for a
moment that wagons could pass without
being broken in ten thousand pieces! But
we came over safely, not a thing broken.
In crossing a bridge where the water was
running very swiftly, one of the cows fell
off and floated down the river as fast as the
current could carry her. The men ran
with a lariat, and hauled her out badly
bruised.
	July 6th. Now over the first mountains.
To describe the roads in justice would be
impossible. Snow, rocks and mud, per-
pendicular heights, declivities deep and
dangerous; yet we got safely over, with
only a few  trifling accidents. I rode up
the mountain on horseback; with great ex-
ertion I clung to the horse. I rode down
in the wagon, which fatigued me more
than walking would have done. Is it pos-
sible that men can love gold to that degree
that they will climb these mountains to ob-
tain it? Oh, I pity the poor cattle! How
faithfully they serve men, who are often
unkind to them! 
	The 6th day. Now on the top of the
second mountain; traveled over snow in
some places thirty feet deep. The wind is 
blowing a heavy gale, cold as Greenland.
The cows are left behind, a sad mistake.
	The 7th day. Rumbling down the
mountains all day; had to lie in bed sick;
was not able to sit up. I hope I may
never pass another such day.
	The 8th day. One of the horses gone.
Oh, the crowds that throng this highway,
going in search of gold! Crowding about
our wagons to be fed. We must feed them,
either for pay or without. They must
have starved to death had we not been
here with provisions; and we only brought
what we thought would serve us through.
I wonder our stores are not exhausted.
	Today passed “Tragedy Springs,” where
three men on their way to Salt Lake were
murdered by Indians for their horses and
clothes. They were found and buried by
their comrades, who in a few days over-
took them. A bag of gold was found on
the neck of one, which the Indians in their
fright had not discovered. It was taken to
the man’s family, and great lamentation
was made over him who had toiled to gath-
er the gold. Their graves are now a spring
of clear water, and carved on the trunk of
a large tree is the account of their sad fate.
Many travelers there pause to gaze upon
the spot, read the inscription and sigh
over the sorrowful fate of their fellow men.
The spring thus derives its name, Tragedy.
	The 9th day. This morning the men
started in pursuit of the lost horse. They
soon got on the track of Indians. They
took the squaws prisoners, hoping the
Indians would bring back the horse. They
were ensconced in the brush; the white
men dared not venture in. The two Span-
ish boys well armed rushed down. One
old Indian pitched battle with them; they 
shot at him, but not to kill. He ran
screaming; the squaws cried bitterly. Four
guns were heard at camp; the white men
returned; the boys were left behind; horses

[Column 2]
not found. Then we felt sure the poor
boys were killed. Some said, “No, they
are not killed. Have we not prayed that
all our lives might be preserved?” After
a length of time the boys returned alive, to
the great joy of the whole company. They
were good Spanish boys.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY ANNIVERSARY AT MURRAY.
	Minutes of the first anniversary of the
West Side Murray, South Cottonwood Pri-
mary Association, held June 9, 1899, at
the West Side school house, President Mary
E. Gilbert presiding. Present on the stand
were Counselor Thomas A. Wheeler. of the
Bishopric, Sunday School Superintendent
D. B. Jones, Stake President Camilla C.
Cobb, Counselor Mary L. Morris, President
M. E. Gilbert, Counselor S. E. Jones of
West Branch, a number of aids, and officers
of other associations. 
	Meeting was called to order by Counselor
S.E. Jcnes. Singing from Primary hymn
book, “Gladly Meeting.” Prayer by Broth-
er D. B. Jones. Singing, “Open the door
for the children.” Minutes of the organiza-
tion meeting read and accepted.
	An interesting program was then very
creditably rendered by the children, after
which remarks were made by President C.
C. Cobb, who spoke upon the ancient
church as it existed in the days of the
Savior and His Apostles. She encouraged
the children to have perfect faith in God.
	Counselor Mary L. Morris, the next
speaker, called the kindergarten class to
the front and told them an Indian story of
the cliff dwellers; also told the story of
Moses in a pleasing manner.
	Counselor T. A. Wheeler spoke a few
moments. Said that all should realize the
importance of training the young people in
the straight and narrow path. Urged the
parents present to aid the officers in the
Primary Association.
	The meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock
p. m. Singing from card, “Word of Wis-
dom.” Benediction by Ray Williams.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
from Primary hymn book, “I think when
I read that sweet story of old.” Prayer by
Counselor T.A. Wheeler. Singing, “Beau-
tiful Zion.”
	A lengthy and interesting program was
then carried out. Brother D. B. Jones
spoke eloquently upon the work of the
Primary. Said let the foundation for life
be laid broad and deep; that this end can-
not be attained but by divine aid, which
must be earnestly sought for. Exhorted
all to be obedient and speak kindly of all.
	Stake Aid Millie Bassett spoke lovingly
to the children, and told a beautiful story
which charmed her hearers, both old and
young.
	Stake Aid Mary Tuddenham spoke a few
moments on the necessity of baptism when
children were eight years of age or over.
	President Mary L. Rawlins, of South
Cottonwood Relief Society, said she was
pleased to meet with the officers and chil-
dren of the West Branch Primary, and to
see so many of the parents present.
	President Howarth of the Tenth Ward
association spoke a few kind words to all.
	President C. C. Cobb gave some valuable
instructions, thanked the sisters from the
city and elsewhere for their attendance,
also told of an incident connected with
Brother James E. Talmage on the healing.
	President E. Terry, of East Draper

[Column 2]
Primary, blessed the children, and hoped
they would become good men and wom-
en.
	At President C. C. Cobb’s request Broth-
ers T. A. Wheeler and D.B. Jones anointed
President Mary E. Gilbert for the restora-
tion of her health, and asked the children
for their faith in her behalf.
	Meeting adjourned for one year. Sing-
ing “We thank Thee, O God, for a proph-
et.” Benediction by Agnes Stromness.
		E. H. Lyon, Sec.


REAPERS’ CLUB.
	The Reapers’ Club met in the EXPONENT
office, Templeton, on the 29th of May.
	A very interesting paper was read by
Mrs. C. J. Trescott, on “The Ancient
Ruins of Copan in Honduras.” She also
spoke of those at Quirigua, and the tablets
found at Palanque. She said that the
ancient Toltecs, who formerly dwelt in
Mexico, were considered—from informa-
tion contained in a manuscript—to have
descended from the house of Israel.
	The club also met on the 12th of June,
and listened to a very good paper by Mrs.
J. Druce on “The Ancient Races that once
Inhabited Mexico.” She stated that the
Mayas were the oldest of known American
races, and their settlement in this country
seemed to date so far back that only some
great scientific discovery, or perhaps the re-
vealed key to decipher the hieroglyphics
which are found among the ruins of their
ancient cities, could open up the mystery of
their origin.
	The Toltecs are of later history, though
they may have descended from the Mayas.
The Toltecs are said to have been a mild,
peaceful, active and industrious people,
who had a knowledge of the arts and
sciences. They understood astronomy,
knew the cause of an eclipse, made and
used sun-dials, etc. The Aztecs, who
succeeded them in the Mexican valley,
after the country had been deserted by the
Toltecs, were a fierce and warlike race.
	These papers were followed with a dis-
cussion by members of the club.
J A. DRUCE, Cor. Sec.


NOTES.
	All our readers will be glad to know
that Mrs. Caroline E. Merrick, the pioneer
suffragist of Louisiana, voted five times at
the recent election—once for herself, and
four times as proxy for other women.
	MME. Zolenka, on behalf of the Wom-
an’s International Peace Association, has
presented to M. de Staal, president of the
peace conference, a handsomely bound
album containing peace petitions from
women’s organizations in eighteen coun-
tries.
	ANNIE MARIAN MACLEAN, of the Uni-
versity of Chicago, through interest in the
work of the Consumers’ League, became a
saleswoman for two weeks, during the
Christmas holidays last year, in one of the
great department stores. She has published
her experience in the American Journal of
Sociology for last month, and it is reprinted
in the Chicago Unity. It is graphic and
painful reading, and should open the eyes
of those women who think that they (and
incidentally all other women) have ‘‘all
the rights they want.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUR DUTY TO THE WOMEN OF
OUR NEW POSSESSIONS.
BY REV. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER.

[Read at the National Suffrage Convention at
Grand Rapids.]
	[Conclusion.]
Bebel says ‘‘Woman was the first hu-
man being to taste of bondage.” True,
and her bondage has been long and bitter;
but like all other forms of human slavery,
the subjection of woman to man in the fam-
ily bond was at once a vast step upward
from the preceding condition. It gave
woman release from the terrible labor bur-
dens of savage life; it gave her time and
strength to develop beauty of person, and
refinement of taste and manner. It gave
her the teaching capacity, for it put all the
younger child-life into her exclusive care,
with some leisure at command to devote to
its mental and moral, as well as physical
well-being. It led to a closer relationship
between man and woman than the world
had known before, and thus gave each the
advantage of the other’s qualities. And al-
ways and everywhere the subjection of
woman to man has had a mitigation
and softening of hardships unknown to
other forms of slavery, by reason of the
power of human affection as it has worked
through sex-attraction. As soon, however,
as the slavery of woman to man was out-
grown and obsolete it became (as was Afri-
can slavery in a professedly democratic
country like our own) ‘‘the sum of all
villianies.” And today there is no incon-
sistency so great, and, therefore, no condi-
tion so brutal and outrageous, as the sub-
jection of women to men in a civilization
which, like ours, assumes to rest upon
foundations of justice and equality of hu-
man rights. It is an archaeologist and not
a woman suffrage reformer who says,
"Nothing is more natural than that woman,
the author of parental government, the
founder of tribal kinship and the organizer
of industrialism, should have much to say
about the form of housekeeping called pub-
lic economy.” The full recognition of
equality of human rights as applied to
woman has, however, not yet come even
to our own America. The passing century
has indeed witnessed a revolution in the
political and legal and industrial and social
and educational position of women; and in
our country the family life and almost all
other relationships of men and women are
purged of most of the elements of sex sub-
jection. Yet our laws still lag behind the
practice of our better people, and the funda-
mental political rights are still withheld
from, most women citizens. We all know
more or less clearly that mother-rule gave
way to father-rule, woman’s exclusive so-
cial command to man’s exclusive govern-
mental control, only that both might give
place to the equal reign of ‘‘two heads in
council, two beside the hearth, two in the
tangled business of the world.” But our
full assent in law and custom is not yet
given by ‘‘majority vote” to this last and
finest step in the evolution of social order.
	Today these considerations (especially the
failure to apply the doctrine of equality of
human rights to women, even in the most
advanced centres of modern civilization)
have an especial and most fateful signifi-
cance in relation to the women of the more
backward races as they are brought into
contact with our more modern civilization.
I said the peoples with whom we are now
being brought as a nation into vital rela-

[Column 2]
tionship, may be still in the matriarchate.
If they are not, most of them are certainly
in some transition stage from that to the
father-rule. Not all peoples have had to
pass through the entire subjection of wom-
en to men which marked our ancestral ad-
vance. The more persistent tribal relation-
ship and collective family life have some-
times softened the process of social growth
which was so harsh for women under old
Roman law and the later English common
law. It may be that the dusky races of
Africa and of the islands of the sea, as well
as our Aryan cousins of India, may pass
more easily through the stages of attach-
ment of man’s responsibility to the family
life than we, with our tough fibre of char-
acter, were able to do. If so, in the name
of justice they shall have the chance!
	But if we, who have not yet “writ large”
in law and political rights that respect for
women which all our education, industry,
religion, art, home life and social culture
express,—if we, who are still inconsistent,
and not yet out of the transition stage from
the father-rule to the equal reign of both
sexes,—if we lay violent hands upon the
backward peoples and give them only our
law and our political rights as these relate
to women, we shall do horrible injustice to
the savage women, and through them to
the whole process of social growth for their
people. When we tried to divide “in
severalty” the lands of the Indian, we did
violence to all his own sense of justice and
co-operative feeling when we failed to rec-
ognize the women of the tribes in the dis-
tribution. We then and there gave the
Indian the worst of the white man’s rela-
tionship to his wife, and failed utterly, as
in the nature of the case we must, to
give him the best of the white man’s re-
lation to his wife. When in India, as Mrs.
Garrett Fawcett has so finely shown, we
introduce the technicalities of the English
law of marriage to bind an unwilling wife
to her husband, we give the Hindoo the
slavery of the Anglo-Saxon wife, but we
do not give the Hindoo that spirit of Anglo-
Saxon marriage and home-life which has
made that slavery often scarcely felt, and
never an unmixed evil. If, today, in the
Hawaiian Islands or in Cuba we fail to rec-
ognize the native women who still hold
something of the primitive prestige of
womanhood; fail to recognize them as en-
titled to a translation, under new laws and
conditions, of the old dignity of position,
we shall not only do them an injustice, but
we shall give the Hawaiian-and Cuban men
lessons in the wrong side and not the right
side of our domestic relations. Above all, if
in the Philippines we abruptly, and with
force of arms, establish the authority of the
husband over the wife, by recognizing men
only as property-owners, as signers of
treaties, as industrial rulers and as domestic
law-givers, we shall introduce every out-
rage and injustice of women’s subjection to
men, without giving these people one iota
of the sense of family responsibility, of pro-
tection of, and respect for, women, and of
deep and self-sacrificing devotion to child-
hood’s needs, which mark the Anglo-Saxon
man. In a word, if we introduce one parti-
cle of our belated and illogical political and
legal subjection of women to men into any
civilized and half-civilized community, we
shall spoil the domestic virtues that com-
munity already possesses, and we shall not
(because we cannot so abruptly and violent-
ly) inoculate them with the virtues of civil-
zed domestic life. Nature will not be

[Column 3]
cheated. We cannot escape, nor can we
roughly and swiftly help others to escape,
the discipline of ages of natural growth.
	This all means that we need another
Commission to go to all the lands in which
our flag now claims a new power of over-
sight and control—a Commission other than
that so recently sent to the Philippines to
see what may be done to bring order to that
distracted group of islands. We need a
Commission which shall study domestic
rather than political conditions, and which
shall look for the undercurrents of social
growth rather than the more showy political
movements. We should have on that
Commission two archaeologists, a man and
a woman, and I can name them—Otis T.
Mason and Alice C. Fletcher.
	We should have on that Commission one
statesman, learned in the law, who can con-
trive ingenious and flexible jointures be-
tween the old and the new ways of living;
so that law shall be an aid to natural
development when it is to supersede cus-
tom, and not an iron hand of restriction.
We, should have a teacher on it,—one capa-
ble of divining the next steps of training
for child-life. And, last but not least, we
should have a woman on the Commission
trained in the best methods of philanthropic
effort,—best because most closely following
the laws of social advance,—one capable of
reading the present in the light of the past,
the special in the comparative atmosphere
of the general, and capable of leading the-
organization of social forces which are native
and peculiar to the existing life. We owe
this debt to the women of our new posses-
sions, and through them to the social life of
which they are already doubtless the most
unifying element,—the debt of intelligent,
understanding of their present conditions
and the conservation of all their social in-
fluences and personal dignity in the up-
holding of the national life.
	Says Lester Ward, our great sociologist:
“The sociologist and the statesman should
co-operate in discerning the laws of society
and the methods of utilizing them so as to
let the social forces flow freely and strong-
ly.” If this be true in respect to our own
national life,—and who shall gainsay it,—
it is tenfold more true in respect to those
more artificial relationships of one nation to
another, which are the outgrowth of al-
liance, subjugation, or territorial oversight.

“Take up the White Man’s burden !
Go, pilot as you may
Your new-caught, sullen peoples
Who do not know the way.
Go, teach them not with cannon,
Those fluttered folk and wild;—
But lead them, as, with yearning,
A mother leads her child.’’


A GOOD MAN GONE.
	In the death of Hon. Francis Armstrong,
which occurred on June 15th, in this city,
a vast number of people in various circum-
stances of life have lost a staunch, reliable
and warm friend. When it can be said of
a wealthy man, as it was testified to of
Brother Armstrong by the several speakers
over his earthly remains, that he has been
“a friend to the poor,” it means more than
all the high-sounding encomiums that may
be paid to his ability as a clever business
man, a successful financier, a wise counselor
and strong pillar in public affairs.
	All these qualities were feelingly attribut-
ed to this good man by the earnest, honest
speakers at his funeral.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every 
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Mrs E. B. WELLS,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1899.


[Column 1]

		   NOTES BY THE WAY.
	Leaving Salt Lake City on seven o’clock
morning train, Saturday, June 3rd, 1899,
and flying over the country Eastward as
fast as possible, one cannot do much in the
way of writing, or make much study of the
scenery by the way, nor study human
nature either as one would like to do when
meeting a variety of people. It is always
pleasant and sometimes profitable (men-
tally at least) to note the people one meets
even casually, and occasionally one finds
himself specially interested in certain types
of individuals. The writer was so weary
that dismal, rainy morning and so pre-
occupied with self, having left behind the
nearest and dearest to go across the great
ocean, that she cared little for the people
about her, or the wonders of the canons;
but no one from Salt Lake City is suffered
to remain long unknown, not even in a
railway carriage. It soon transpired that
our identity was discovered and the lady in
the same section informed us that she had
relatives and old school friends in Salt Lake
City.  Finally we ascertained that she was
the cousin of our well-known and highly
respected fellow citizen, Theodore McKean,
and a schoolmate of the Ivins’s. Then
followed conversation and explanations,
and discussion of the Roberts question, etc.
Finally a lady just returning from a mis-
sion to China learned to her dismay, if not
disgust, that there were Mormons aboard,
and although she was the wife of a Baptist
minister, and had been living for many
years in China trying to teach the Gospel
principles to the “heathen Chinee,” yet
she thought herself too good to be even
polite to a Mormon woman, and seemed to
do all in her power to make things un-
pleasant. It is strange that Christian wom-
en working to correct the heathen have not
broader principles and greater charity.
	Arriving in New York Tuesday at half
past two, Mrs. Caine bade farewell to the
writer and drove to the Cosmopolitan to be
ready to sail next day.
	The heat in New York City has been al-
most unendurable, and people and horses
have been prostrated even so early in June;
while in Salt Lake and vicinity we see by
the papers that there have been heavy frosts,
ruining fruit and killing early vegetables.
We found our relatives all right and were in
time the following morning at ten for the
Conference of the Ladies of the National
Council of Women of the U.S.A. Mrs. Sewall

[Column 2]
who only arrived in NewYork the same morn-
ing was fresh as ever and in excellent spir-
ts, though she was to sail the next morn-
ing. Miss American, Mrs. Peck and Mrs.
Grannis were also present; they too were to
sail on the Bremen on the 8th. Mrs. Fan-
nie Humphreys Gaffney, the new president,
had the business of the meeting carefully
prepared and everything was dispatched in
the best manner, Mrs. Wells performing
her duty as secretary. Mrs. Mary Lowe
Dickinson, who resides in New York, was
present and with three such officers it would
have been strange if everything had not
been well and properly accomplished that
could be done within the time. It was the
first meeting since we were all in Wash-
ington, though Mrs. Gaffney had enter-
tained Miss Anthony, Dr. Shaw and Mrs.
Avery while in New York before they
sailed, and talked over some important
matters with them. About noon a de-
lightful hour was spent at the luncheon,
which consisted of delicaciesdaintily spread,
and lovely flowers that helped to perfect the
beauty of the entire arrangement. A hap-
pier group of women could scarcely be
found; no gossip, no frivolity, but ques-
tions of importance and social conversation
occupied the time, and work was resumed
immediately after the guests left the table.
This conference will undoubtedly be help-
ful in getting matters ready for the execu-
tive session in November.
	Thursday we called at the office of the
White Line steamers, Bowling Green, and
completed final arrangements for sailing on
Wednesday, June 14th.
	Friday noon left New York City to visit
relatives in New England; and every sta-
tion by the way recalled memories of other
days. The hills and woods are as green as
when a little child we wandered through
the wild wood, and as now and then when
a wayside station was reached women came
on with armsfull of wild flowers just such
as we gathered in the long ago, it was al-
most pathetic to one whose mind was filled
with girlish memories.
	The towns we whirled past were familiar
by name from earliest recollection,and when
we met the dear loved ones from whom we
had been so widely separated more than
half a century, (except once or twice a
brief visit as we flitted Eastward to attend
some congress or convention,) and then
knew we could only spend a few hours with
them, it was a pleasure “not unmixed
with pain.”
	There were many things to talk over dur-
ing the last eight years, and the time flew
on the wings of the wind. Changes there
are to be remarked but the main features of
the scenery were much the same. Laurel
Hill covered with blossoms was a delight
to the beholder, and buttercups, daisies and
the hemlock with its gracefully sweeping
boughs and soft, young tendrils, as well as
the old magnificent elms that had stood for
more than a century, withstanding the
storms of New England winters. There is
nothi[-]g in nature perhaps not dearer to the
heart, or more beautiful to the writer, than
the woods in full foliage as at this season,
unless it is the sea, and one hesitates and
knows not unless the star-spangled-firma-
ment with the new moon in the clear blue.
But one does not reason about these things,
one only admires and exclaims, for it is
past all description and all comparison.
	Tomorrow, Monday, I shall be in the
great City of New York, and on Wednes-
day at high noon, the fourteenth of June,

[Column 3]
sail for England, and will write the next
editorial after the Quinquennial in London.
Au revoir.


AUNT ESTHER'S SWEETHEART.
BY AUNT EM.
[Conclusion.]
	Of all those who had been converted
Aunt Esther was really the most zealous
and content. Heretofore she had not been
religiously inclined, but she had had many
misgivings with regard to a step she once
contemplated taking, though she had main-
tained her reputation and escaped almost
miraculously from falling into disgrace. She
knew, as no one else did or could know,
how she had been tempted to leave her hus-
band’s house forever, and go into a foreign
land with the man she loved with all the
fervor of youthful attachment, but whom
her parents had not allowed her to marry.
He had come to her at a time when she had
felt the most desperate, had read her heart
when her whole soul revolted against the
bondage she was undergoing, and urged
her to fly with him. And she had even
tried to persuade herself that the step Sid-
ney Manning entreated her to take was no
more a sin in the sight of heaven, than the
domestic life she was compelled to live with
the husband to whom she was bound by
marriage vows. Some good angel stood by
her then, and at the last moment, as it were,
when all had been cautiously arranged, and
her lover was waiting in anxious expectan-
cy, she finally resolved to preserve her hon-
or and that of her husband, and remain
true to her womanhood and to her mar-
riage vows, and suffer wrong rather than
commit a wrong that would forever debar
her from association of the friends she
loved; and an error, too, which to her now
thoroughly awakened consciousness of its
gross wickedness, she felt sure would end
in despair and hopeless degradation. And
as a last resort, she sent her faithful maid,
alone, in the dead silence of the night, to
tell her old sweetheart that she could not
consent to go with him, and he must never
attempt to see her again. Poor Polly! she
never dared to tell her mistress all the
dreadful things Sidney Manning said there
in the darkness, when she delivered her
message. And so that part of the romance
ended and he went away, and finally se-
cured a position in a mercantile house in
India, and amassed wealth—for it was the
lack of riches that had deprived him of his
darling Esther, and he was determined to
accumulate means enough to make her a
home suited to her circumstances, should
she ever be free again to choose for herself;
and he would wait until that time came,
always believing in her affection and trust-
ing in his knowledge of her character. And
he esteemed her far more for the sacrifice
she made in giving him up, when, in his
mistaken sense of right, he would have
stolen another man’s wife. She had saved
herself and him too, and when far away
from her in a foreign land and meditating
upon her loveliness of character, he could
appreciate the strength and fortitude she
manifested in withstanding the great temp-
tation.
	When Sidney Manning heard of the sud-
den death of Esther’s husband, he had
mastered his feelings to such an extent that
he did not rejoice; and he waited on,
wondering if she would make any sign to
him, any recognition of her first promise


[Column 1]
that she had never redeemed. But she did
not, she was too proud for that, and the
impulsive girl had changed into a well-de-
veloped woman. So after a time he wrote,
and Esther Danforth took months to deliber-
ate before replying; and when she did write,
was careful not to make any sort of com-
promise. Had it not been for the thrilling
episode in their lives, that came near end-
ing in a tragedy, she would have acted
differently, now she was doubly reserved.
Bye and bye he wrote again, then she said:
"Wait," and he had waited long enough,
he thought, for her, and too long by far for
him.
	One morning at breakfast time Uncle
William handed Aunt Esther a letter in
Polly's handwriting, which gave her no
concern; but as she opened it another letter
fell out upon the table. Alice caught it
up, thinking it might be for her, but Esther
had seen the name, and knew instantly
that it was from her old sweetheart.
	"Excuse me, Aunt Esther," said Alice,
"it is for you, after all, but such a peculiar
hand, looks like foreign paper, but there’s
no postmark, there must be visitors at the
Wren’s Nest. What does Polly say?"
	There was no help for it, Aunt Esther
must answer. Her face was flushing, she
knew, and trying to be as calm as possible,
turning to her sister, who was eyeing her
very closely, she stammered out, "Sidney
—Mr. Manning, I mean—he’s returned
from abroad."
	"And pray who is Sidney—Mr. Man-
ning, Auntie?"
	Before she could reply Aunt Jane had
spoken for her, "Your Aunt Esther’s old
sweetheart, Alice."
	Mrs. Danforth protested and blushed a
deeper crimson; but the secret was out
nevertheless, and Alice was delighted.
	"O, that’s what Polly meant when she
said you had a romance in your life."
	"What can Polly know of my sister’s
sweetheart? She was nothing but a child
when this affair with Sidney Manning oc-
curred, that’s why we all called him Esther’s
sweetheart. Father and mother didn’t ap-
prove of children being engaged and broke
the matter off, and my sister was sent away
from home to cure her. But I always had
an idea it was a kind of hopeless case, for
he never married, at least we never heard
of it, and as for Esther, she is blushing to
the very tips of her ears, for all the world
like a young girl of sixteen—and she’s six
and thirty."
	"Isn’t it enough to make any one blush,
to have such things repeated in one’s
presence? I wish Sidney Manning had
stayed in India."
	"In India, Auntie? Well, if that isn’t
fine! A rich uncle from India for the holi-
days after all. Can’t you invite him to
come here, Aunt Jane?"
	"That must be as my sister Esther says,"
she replied. "I would like it very much."
	"He’s not your uncle, Alice," said Aunt
Esther, "and it’s very improper for you to
call him so, and your Aunt Jane’s house is
full of visitors already."
	At this Alice subsided for a few moments;
but there was very little breakfast eaten by
any of the ladies that morning. Aunt Jane
recalled one remembrance after another of
the days when Esther was a child, and it
was all very interesting for the young folks.
Alice declared it was just what she always
had thought from fragments Polly had
dropped now and then, though how she had
found it out no one could tell; and now it

[Column 2]
had come out accidentally, and just what she
had begged Aunt Esther to tell her about
herself.
	The party Aunt Jane had intended to
give in honor of her visitors had been post-
poned from one time to another on some
pretext, and the night before the arrival of
Aunt Esther’s queer letter, the host and
hostess had come to the conclusion it should
come off on Christmas eve; and it was to
have been discussed at the breakfast table,
when all the family were together; but the
unfortunate letter had put it entirely out of
Aunt Jane’s mind, and upon arising from
the table Aunt Esther had gone to her
room, presumably to read her letter from
home.
	Poor Aunt Esther! here was another di-
lemma! Polly wrote that Mr. Manning
had come unceremoniously to the Wren’s
Nest, and finding Mrs. Danforth absent,
had inquired of her whether her mistress
had received a foreign letter recently; and
she had answered truthfully that she had.
Then he wanted to know if any message
had been left for him, and she told him
there was none. Next, where she had
gone, and when she was expected home?
She had gone to M—in Franklin Coun-
ty, to her sister, Mrs. Wetherell, and as to
her return, it was indefinite. Then Polly
said, "He asked me to let him write a let-
ter, and would I write one and enclose it in
mine? And I hope, my dear mistress, you
will not be offended, for he seemed so sad
and disappointed that you were not here."
	Having finished Polly’s letter, which
contained little else. Esther Danforth broke
the seal of the other. There is always a
sort of charm about a pretty seal—and it
adds to the interest of a letter’s contents.
But this letter was a "love letter" indeed.
He accused her of running away from him,
and warned her that he should follow her
to the ends of the earth, if need be; re-
minded her of walks and rambles they had
taken together in the beautiful past, and of
the kisses he had stolen from her sweet lips.
He seemed to have forgotten that she was
a matronly woman now, and he no longer
the young lover, nor the "little sweetheart."
	The longer Esther stayed and pondered
over the letter, the more bewildered she
grew. She could not see him there, it
would be worse than being at home; there
so many would not be looking on. She
had half a mind to pack her trunk and go
back, but that seemed impracticable; and,
wavering between this and that, she knelt
and prayed for wisdom. A sweet peace
came with the prayer, and she joined the
family group in the sitting room.
	Alice exclaimed as soon as her aunt came
in, "Aunt Jane will write to Mr. Manning
to come this very day—but even then he
can’t reach here for the party."
	"Have you any objection, Esther?" her
sister inquired.
	"Just as you please, Jane; but remember
this is your invitation, not mine," said
Esther emphatically.
	The letter was dispatched, and Alice was
eager to see what this old sweetheart of her
auntie’s was like, and asked numerous
questions; but as no one knew much more
than she did, she did not get much of an
idea. Aunt Jane had said, though, that to
the best of her recollection he had a very
fine figure and a handsome face.
	Christmas eve came, and the house was
profusely decorated; for the party was to be
quite an elaborate affair for a country town,
and every one seemed in the gayest of

[Column 3]
spirits, except Aunt Esther, who went
from room to room, seemingly without any
object in view. Later on in the evening,
when all the guests had arrived, and the re-
freshments had been served and abundant-
ly partaken of, a sharp ring from the old-
fashioned knocker vibrated through the
house and startled the company.
	"Who can it be at this late hour?" said
two or three in a breath; but they had not
long to wait. A stranger, muffled to the
chin in furs, and covered with snow, stood
in the hallway and in every adjacent door-
way the guests crowded to see the new
comer. Mr. Wetherell guessed who he
was and took him into his room, a sort of
office, or what would nowadays be styled a
den. Some explanations were made by the
stranger, and he excused himself for being
muffled by saying he had been so long ac-
customed to a hot climate. Mr. Wetherell
treated his guest to refreshments, and after
partaking of coffee, etc., he was introduced
to the company assembled there, as an old
friend of the hostess.
	This was a great relief to Aunt Esther
when she heard of it afterwards, as she was
suffering meantime, not knowing what ex-
cuse had been made for his unexpected ap-
pearance.
	Mr. Manning was very affable and dig-
nified in manner, and a perfect master of
language in conversation. His extensive
travels abroad had given him ease and
grace in society, and he "took the castle by
storm," so to speak. The girls were
charmed with him, and the young men
were gracious and deferential. Little he
cared for all the respect lavished upon him
from these warm-hearted country people—
he had only eyes and ears for one, his lost
Esther. And she was nowhere to be seen.
She had fled to her room at the sound of his
voice; she could not meet him in the pres-
ence of others. Finally the music ceased,
and the dancers stepped from the scene of
the festivity and rejoicing, and the family
gathered around the great blazing fire. The
night was cold, and the wind howled out-
side, and yet within there was peace and
hospitality and good cheer. When the
young people had left the room, Sidney
Manning ventured to inquire of Jane,
whom he had known well twenty years be-
fore. where her sister, Mrs. Danlorth, was.
	"She is very nervous tonight," Jane re-
plied, "and extremely sensitive. She can-
not endure much excitement, and retired to
her room some time since."
	"Indeed," replied the gentleman, "and
shall I not be able to see her until tomor-
row? And I have come so far across the
sea, and up here into these rocky hills for
that one purpose. I must see her for a few
moments, she must not refuse. Will you
intercede for me, Jane? You, who have
lived such peaceful, quiet lives, know little
of the turbulent restlessness of one tossed
upon the fateful sea of uncertainty: at one
moment ready to sink, and then, a fair sail
in sight, taking courage once more."
	Mrs. Wetkerell’s heart was touched with
compassion, and she promised to try and
persuade Esther to meet him that night, or
morning, for it was now past midnight.
Jane was as good as her word. She en-
treated Esther to see him for a few minutes,
even if the hour was so late it would be a
pleasure to him.
	"Jane," said the woman in pitying tones,
"you are mistaken, he will be disappointed,
he thinks to find me the romantic girl he
left when he went away. I am old beyond


[Column 1]
my years, and I shall not please his fastidi-
ous tastes, and it will only be a trial for me
that I shrink from enduring."
	"Oh, Esther, do go and let him see that
you are not afraid to meet him."
	"Yes, Jane, I will go," said Esther, "for
I am not a moral coward." And she went
down as calm and placid as a summer
morning.
	Mr. and Mrs. Wetherell left them to meet
alone, and Aunt Esther walked quietly into
the great, old-fashioned parlor to meet her
fate, her old sweetheart expecting she
knew not what sort of a reception. But he,
hearing her soft footfall, turned quickly and
reached out his strong arms and clasped her
to his bosom ere she had time to elude his
grasp. Neither spoke for some minutes,
for their silence was more eloquent than
speech, however daintily fashioned. At last
Sidney Manning repeated her name, but
she answered not.
	"Esther," said he again, "we meet once
more, and we are both free. I have waited
long for this meeting. Have you nothing
to say to me after all the long years of con-
stancy?"
	Esther felt there was a barrier even
now, but she could not introduce the sub-
ject tonight, it was too late to enter upon
untrodden ground, so she only said, in the
most indifferent tone, "You must be very
weary, and my brother-in-law is waiting to
show you to your room—tomorrow we
shall have time to renew our acquaintance
—good night, Sidney," and she hurried
from the room.
	He stood by the mantle and leaned his
head upon his hand in a maze of bewilder-
ment. He was as much in doubt whether
she loved him or not as any young, inex-
perienced boy could be. And yet she did
love him passionately, but she kept the
secret in her own soul, woman-like, deter-
mined to prove him, though she might
stake all of earthly happiness and find her-
self the loser.
	During the following day and days after,
Mr. Wetherell opened up conversation with
his guest upon Mormonism, of which he con-
fessed he never heard before, nor of Joseph
Smith nor the Book of Mormon; he was
indifferent, he acknowledged, to all religions.
He had busied himself with men, money
and schemes to accumulate wealth while
abroad, and left religion for an after con-
sideration. Such is the way of the world
in all ages, except in rare instances. Es-
ther heard his remarks without comment,
but feared a wide gulf was opening between
them which it would be difficult to bridge
over, and she became more and more reti-
cent in conversing with him. At present
Sidney Manning was bent upon making
love to Esther—the young and fascinating
widow—and she was mistaken when she
told her sister that he would be disappoint-
ed in her appearance; far from it, he
thought her more charming than in her
younger days, if possible.
	Alice’s courtship was progressing favor-
ably, all seemed to be smooth sailing in
their direction. Not so with the others.
Obstacles kept looming up, and Sidney
thought there was no chance at all for him.
Esther’s time was occupied with many calls
and visits. A tender word now and then
when he could meet her in the hallway
alone, was about the extent of his advan-
tages. He knew that some business had to
be attended to soon in Boston, and thought
he would go and transact it while Esther

[Column 2]
was so much engaged, and visit her at her
own home when she returned, when he
hoped he would be the chief attraction.
The Wetherells persuaded him to remain
until after New Years, and hoping he
might secure an interview on that auspici-
ous day, he consented to stay until that
time. He was disappointed, however; the
house was full of callers and some friends
had been invited to dine. The day sped
swiftly by, and he had decided to leave
early the next morning. He invited Rich-
ard Ashburn to accompany him, thinking
it would hurry Alice and her aunt home a
few days sooner.
	Mrs. Danforth had intended remaining
much longer, but as her niece had made up
her mind to get married in the coming
spring, she decided to go home and set
about preparations, though she did not take
Sidney’s case into consideration as an in-
centive to her going. The visit had not
only been a pleasant but a profitable one,
and Aunt Esther realized how great a bless-
ing had come to her through the Gospel
she had heard and embraced. She was al-
ready planning to leave her native state and
go to join the people of her choice in the
chosen home of the Saints.
	About a week after Manning’s and Rich-
ard’s departure, Aunt Esther and Alice
took the stage for home; with consider-
able reluctance though, for they had met
many pleasant people, and partings give us
all more pain than pleasure. But our lives
are mostly made up of these trifles—coming
and going, meeting and parting; and we
must take the sweet along with the bitter
or we would never know the contrast, and
an overdose of sweets is very injurious and
sometimes fatal, though we all long for it
more or less, and some people really seem
to get more than their share in this life.
	Poor Aunt Esther plainly saw that there
was to be another struggle with her feel-
ings, another temptation was near; and
whether she could overcome it or not she
was scarcely satisfied in her own mind. She
had no adviser, no one upon whom she
could lean, and her human heart cried out
sharply for the love she had never been
permitted to enjoy in its full completeness.
Now it was within her reach, she could ac-
cept it if she would; but would it not be at
the sacrifice of something higher and holier
and more lasting than mere earthly happi-
ness at its best? Esther Danforth prayed
for guidance from above, it was her only
hope and stay.
	Aunt Esther had no trouble in convinc-
ing Polly and Ben, her two trusted helps,
of the new religion as she called it, and
when shortly after some Elders who had
visited Boston came out to Mrs. Danforth’s,
who lived a little way out in the suburbs,
both of them were ready for baptism.
Others of her neighbors, too, believed,
among them the Elmores, which was a
source of joy to Aunt Esther and Alice,
especially because of Harry.
	Sidney Manning and Richard Ashburn
were not long away from the Wren’s Nest
after its mistress returned and many pleas-
ant evenings were spent there, happily for
all except Aunt Esther, who felt too keenly
the risk she was running; for she had
known by intuition all along that her old
sweetheart, as he had been christened by
the young folks, was not favorable to her
views upon religion, and to her nature it
seemed a positive necessity. He wanted
her exclusively, and that only, he declared,

[Column 3]
would satisfy him. But she was different
and her needs were greater; she, too, want-
ed his love and something higher and
purer. Day after day the struggle went on,
until Alice’s marriage. Then the calmness
was ruffled a little, when Mr. Manning in-
sisted upon their marriage upon the same
day with Alice and Richard. Esther made
such an emphatic resistance that it came
near destroying their friendly relations for
the future.
	It would be quite impossible here to de-
scribe in detail the particulars of Alice’s
wedding, but suffice to say, she had every-
thing she desired and was a perfect picture
of loveliness herself. The Elmore girls
were her bridesmaids, and young Mr.
Wetherell, her cousin, was Richard’s best
man. Her rich uncle from India, as she
playfully called Mr. Manning, gave her an
elegant India shawl and several odd and
pretty ornaments.
	After the wedding Mr. Manning still
continued his visits to the Wren’s Nest, and
as time went on, he grew impatient of
the delay for the fulfilment of the dream of
his life, and used all the powers of per-
suasion he possessed to get Esther to name
the happy day. At last Esther summoned
all her courage and assured him it could
never be. It almost broke her heart, the
inward struggle was so great; but she saw
with a woman’s keen intuition that her
happiness would not be secured by giving
way to this earthly love that clashed with
her religion, and she knew herself to be
equal to the occasion. For her "old sweet-
heart," as every one had come to call him
now, she felt deeply; he had staked all and
was about to lose. He had no faith to lean
upon, and while she talked to him, this
great, strong man sobbed like a child.
	When he recovered himself sufficiently to
speak, he said: "Esther, my darling, if you
should change your mind, if you should be
unhappy and want me, or if misfortune
should come to you, don’t hesitate to come
to me or send for me, I will come if I am
living. I would marry you notwithstand-
ing the doubts you entertain of our happi-
ness, but I cannot take you unless you are
wholly satisfied. And now I must go
away, I dare not linger near you, I should
be desperate," and he caught her in his
arms, showered her with burning kisses,
and the hot tears fell like rain upon her
face. A moment more and he was gone—
fled from her forever. She did not dare
look after him lest she should call him
back, and have to go over the same scene
again. It was over, and her "sweetheart"
had left her. She sank upon the sofa and
gave way to a passionate burst of grief.
	And now Esther’s sweetheart has gone,
we must draw our story to a close. There
is little more to tell. Poor Aunt Esther
went about her daily duties as before, only
she grew more and more tender and lovable.
For some years letters came regularly from
India, and occasionally some valuable gift.
Twice she wrote to him upon Gospel sub-
jects, she did not dare trust her pen to speak
for her of other things. Bye and bye the
letters ceased coming, and then she knew
Sidney Manning was dead. She remained
constant in her devotion to her old sweet-
heart, and never married after, though she
had many opportunities. She devoted her
time, her means and her energies all to
doing good to others in the household of
faith, and many there were who received
blessings at her hands.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEW ORGANIZATION.
PROVO, UTAH, MAY 30.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	Myself and Sister Daniels visited Knights-
ville to organize a Relief Society in that
branch on the 28th inst.  We had a lovely
visit with our old friend from Provo who
resides there; also had a good time with the
Saints at meeting.  Elder Wm. McCul-
lough and counselors met us at the depot. 
	Knightsville is a pretty little nook in a 
rich mineral district.  The people have
nice homes, and there are many of Provo’s
old settlers who have had extensive ex-
perience in the Church, and will succeed in 
the Relief Society work.
	The ride in the railroad car was superb !
The scenery in the cañon was grand ! It
was my first visit in the Tintic district.
	The following names were nominated
and unanimously sustained as officers of the 
Relief Society:  Mrs. Mary Jane Wilkins,
president;  Mrs. M. A. McCullough and 
Mrs. R. Haws, counselors; Mrs. Louie Boyle, 
secretary; Mrs. Borak, treasurer. 
	With much love, and wishing you suc-
cess on your tour to England and return, I
remain,
Yours Sincerely,
MARY JOHN.


OBITUARY.

MARY GRIFFITHS WILLIAMS DAVIS.

	We have been called upon to part with one of
our beloved sisters in the Relief Society, Sister
Mary Griffiths Williams Davis. She was born in
Glamorganshire, South Wales, and emigrated to
Utah in 1865. Died at Union, May 1st, 1899, after
a lingering illness.
	Sister Davis was a faithful Latter-day Saint,
ever ready to help the poor and needy, charitable
in all her actions. To know her was to love her.
	We feel to sympathize with her aged partner in
life; also with her sons and daughters, and sincere-
ly hope that they may be sustained in the hour of
trial, and feel that the Lord doeth all things well.
	Peaceful be thy silent slumber,
		Peaceful in the grave so low;
	Thou no more wilt join our number,
		Thou no more our songs shalt know.
	Yet, again we hope to meet thee,
		Here thy loss we sadly feel;
	But ’tis God that hath bereft us,
		He can all our sorrows heal.
M. A. SMART.

KATE PLATTE WALKER.
	Died.—In Oak City, Millard Co., Utah, March
25, 1899, Kate Platte Walker, wife of Simeon Walk-
er and daughter of Henry and Mary Ann Roper.
	She was born on the Platte River, at Red Butte
Station, Sep. 23, 1859. Her sickness was of short
duration, but her suffering was intense; still her
faith never wavered, and she had great faith in
the ordinance of the Gospel for the healing of the
sick. The Elders were frequently called in, and
many times her sufferings were greatly relieved.
	She was permitted to see the beauties of the
world she was going to, and described them to
those around her; also told of seeing some of her
friends who had gone before. 
	Her husband and children could not resign
themselves to part with the wife and mother they
loved so well, and clung to her, praying God to spare
her to them, till she begged them to give her up
and let her spirit go in peace. Much sympathy is
felt for her aged father to whom she was devotedly
attached, and for her sweet little babe only six
months old. Father, sisters and friends will do all
they can for the little one, but a mother’s love she
will never know.
	Sister Walker was a member of the Relief Soci-
ety, having served as a teacher for fifteen years.
She also belonged to the ward choir and the Y. L.
M. I. A., and was a great favorite generally. Her
place cannot be filled. She was the mother of
nine children; two she has with her, the others are
left to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Whereas the Ruler of all has in His wisdom re


moved by death from our midst our beloved sister
and friend, Kate Platte Walker; and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation we have
held with her as a member of the Relief Society
has endeared her to us and we deeply feel our loss,
therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That her example as a wife, mother
and member of this society be held in grateful re-
membrance; and
	RESOLVED, That the sudden removal by death of
such a universal favorite is deeply felt, and the
vacancy caused by her death cannot be filled, and
with deep sympathy for the relatives we pray our
Heavenly Father to bless and comfort them.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our minutes and recorded in our
records. 
	(Written by Mary M. Lyman at the request of
Caroline E. Lyman, president of the seciety.)


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Minutes of the Semi-Monthly Meeting of
April 15, 1899, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing, "Arise O, glorious Zion."
Prayer by Sister H. M. Wright. Singing,
"Our God, we raise to Thee." Minutes
read and accepted.
	President Horne said all who were pres-
ent would receive a blessing. Said
we were once in the presence of our
Heavenly Father, that we were all ac-
quainted there, better than we are here.
This is a school we are passing through to
purify us for eternal glory. Spoke of the
necessity of obedience, and of the glory if
we are faithful. We only have to answer
for our own sins, none escape for breaking
God’s laws, all our acts are recorded in
heaven. Referred to Christ’s teachings
that we should pray for those who despite-
fully use us. This is what we are doing in
sending out our Elders to offer our enemies
life and salvation. "I feel that the Lord
will bless us if we attend to our duties."
Bore a testimony of the mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith. A great deal is
expected of Zion. Satan will have great
power, even to the calling down of fire
from heaven; we must pray without ceasing
that we may be able to discern the true
spirit.
	Sister Clara Cannon: "I feel that this is
a blessed privilege that we enjoy in meet-
ing together and partaking of this good
spirit. There has never been a time when
I did not know that this Gospel was true."
	Sisters Seebeck, Wright and Waterfall
each bore testimony.
	Sister L. D. Alder needed the strength
she received in these meetings. She be-
lieved those who gather here are those who
have met great trials and deep sorrows.
Spoke of the care the Lord has over us, and
sends His spirit to comfort us in time of
need; of the danger of pride, that it must
have a fall, that it is only pleasing to the
Lord to be humble.
	Counselor Stevenson: "What a joy it
will be to our young women to say in the
future, 'I was born in Zion.'" Spoke of the
magnitude of the magnanimous work being
done in the Temple, that there is no time
to waste. Exhorted all to be very select in
their reading, for that which we read im-
presses us through life.
	Sisters J. S. Woolley, Mary L. Morris
and Munn bore testimony.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister M.
O. Brown.

	May 27, 1899, the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting convened in the 14th ward hall,
Counselor Elizabeth J. Stevenson presid-
ing. Singing, "Come, come ye Saints."

[Column 2]
Prayer by Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
Singing, "Our God we raise to Thee."
	Sister Stevenson said she wondered how
many were obliged to hurry unusually to
get here. We gather here to get a blessing.
Said she had been to Moab, and it was sur-
prising how the sisters there exert them-
selves to attend their meetings, they are ob-
liged to ride long distances and bring their
babies. They are very anxious to hear the
truths of the Gospel. The line is being
drawn among them as it is here, there are
so many indifferent and there is much mis-
sionary work needed at home. Spoke of
the law of tithing, and believed it was one
of the most necessary laws to obey.
	Sister Johanna Peterson bore a testimony
of the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Hardy said she thought we were
indeed a blessed people. She thought a
great many did not realize the age in which
we live. President Snow said recently that
though the Gospel of salvation is presen-
ted to the people, yet they would not ac-
cept it.
	Sister Barnes said she was pleased to
meet with the sisters to-day; that she was
anxious to train her children aright.
	Sister Brown said she liked to live so
that she could always have the spirit of the
Lord to guide her.
	Sister Harriet Ann Badger said she felt
to rejoice that she could be in attendance
today. Spoke of the grandeur of the work
of the Relief Society; that there were
30,000 women belonging to this society.
	A sister said though she had not associa-
ted with the authorities of the Church, she
knew they were prophets and apostles, and
that this was the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	Sister Brixen spoke of her visit to Vernal,
Uintah Co., to attend the young ladies con-
ference. Said how the Lord had healed
her and permitted her to endure the long
journey. They were blessed with an
abundance of the spirit of God. Said
Apostle Lyman had advised all the sisters
to have their names enrolled on the Relief
Society books.
	Counselor Webb said we cannot be
thankful enough that we are Latter-day
Saints. Spoke of the thanks she had to
the Lord that she had the privilege of being
a worker in the Relief Society. Said she
would be pleased to have the young wom-
en join this society.
	Sister Eliza Rawlins bore a testimony of
the truth of the Gospel, a[-]d related a vision
she had that increased her faith.
	Sister Williams, from Pocatello, who was
a member there, had only belonged to the
Church four years, but she felt as if she
had always been a member. She was
taught by her mother to read the scriptures
and to be virtuous. She did not enjoy the
pleasures of the world. Related how she
had been healed and the peace brought to
her soul when the Elders laid their hands
upon her.
	Sister Tora Hafen said she was thankful
for the Gospel and that we have a Father
in heaven. Said she desired to fill the
mission that God had sent her upon the
earth to fill.
	Sister Jane James believed her Heavenly
Father knew she desired to do her duty.
Wished she could have the privilege to do
more. Prayed that Sister Zina and Sis-
ter Horne would be blessed and healed and
their lives prolonged. She then spoke in
tongues.
	Counselor Stevenson spoke of the indif-
ference of the children, and the necessity of


studying the Church  works. Announced
that next Saturday would be the Relief
Society quarterly conference.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
				    J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
AFTERNOON SESSION, EMERY STAKE.
Afternoon session. After the opening
exercises Sister Fullmer addressed the con-
ference. She testified to the power of God
that had been made manifest in her day;
she hoped the testimony would ever re-
main with her.
Sister Jane C. Childs, first counselor of
the Stake, reported the conference news of
Salt Lake City, and urged a general better-
ment of the sisters of the Stake. Spoke at
some length on the silk industry, exhibited
some samples of Utah silk and many
pamphlets on sericulture, presented to her
while in the city by Sister Margaret A.
Caine of the Utah Silk Commission.
Sister Ann Pulsipher, second counselor
of the Stake, said it was through the bless-
ings of the Lord she was able to attend this
conference; she was a living witness of the
power of healing in our day. She knew
these gifts were with this people, or she
would not be with us at the present time.
Sisters Hansen, Cheshire, Grange, Hitch-
cock and Killian each bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
The officers were presented by J. E.
Childs, and unanimously sustained.
In the evening a meeting was held,
Brothers Lambert and Pulsipher being the
principal speakers, which was of interest to
both old and young.
Conference adjourned to meet at Orange-
ville in October.
ST. GEORGE STAKE.
On May 19th, 1899, in the evening, a
Stake Relief Society meeting was held in
the St. George Tabernacle, President Ann
C. Woodbury presiding. This meeting had
been specially appointed for the purpose of
meeting with Sisters Jane S. Richards and
Minnie J. Snow. Sister Lyman and
Sister Josephine, R. West, Apostles Rich-
ards and Lyman and President Seymour B.
Young were also present.
After opening exercises President Wood-
bury made a few remarks welcoming our
visitors, followed by Counselor Mary G.
Whitehead, whose remarks were timely
and to the point.
Sister Jane S. Richards then spoke, ex-
pressing regret that our dear Aunt Zina
could not be with us, and delivering a lov-
ing message from her to the sisters in St.
George Stake. She thought it our duty to
cultivate faith, charity to the erring and
love for each other. We should be kind to
those who despitefully use us, speak well
of people while living, and not wait until
they are dead to say a good word. It is
necessary for us to have trials, and she was
thankful for them. Related many inter-
esting experiences of her labors as a mem-
ber of the Relief Society.
Sister Lyman bore an earnest testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
President Ann C. Woodbury spoke on
the silk industry, exhibiting a piece of silk
recently woven in St. George, that was in
all ways creditable and encouraging.
Apostle Lyman testified to the great
work accomplished by the Relief Society in
assisting in building meeting houses, taking
care of the sick and providing for the poor.

[Column 2]
Suggested a remedy for a weak and illy
attended society. This was for every mem-
ber to make it her business to advocate the
society, until every married woman was a
member actively engaged in its labors.
Asked the sisters to help their husbands,
brothers and sons to pay a full tithing.
Spoke also of the interest taken by Presi-
dent Brigham Young in the southern
country, and the fact of his having lived
here a part of his time, and thought the
people ought to be very grateful for it. He
referred to Apostle Erastus Snow in his
labors here, and thought him only second
to Brigham Young as a colonizer and pio-
neer.
Apostle Richards congratulated the sis-
ters on their large congregation. He appre-
ciated the hardships the society had
undergone, and was glad we had been
favored in building and dedicating the first
Temple reared in Utah. He paid a grace-
ful compliment to the sisters and the Relief
Society by saying that if he wished any-
thing well done, he would put it into the
hands of the society. Advised the estab-
lishment of a certain age as the time
when the sisters might be expected
to join the Relief Society. He was pleased
with the report of the silk industry, and
blessed and encouraged Sister Woodbury
in her labors in this line.
Sister West testified to having been a
member of the Relief Society since her six-
teenth year, and had greatly enjoyed her
labors therein. Spoke a short time in
favor of the Primary Association, of which
she is an aid. Suggested the teaching and
practical application of the principle of tith-
ing to the children. In their Stake they
had sent in nickel contributions to the Salt
Lake Temple to the amount of $225.00, be-
sides assisting in other enterprises. She
felt it a great honor and blessing to be one
of President Snow’s party, and thanked the
people for their courtesy.
It was unanimously voted that all pres-
ent send their love to “Aunt Zina.”
Closing remarks were made by Sisters
Richards and Woodbury. Benediction was
pronounced by President D. D. McArthur.
JULIA A. PACE, Cor. Sec.


TO MY CLASS.
Farewell ! strange sounds the word, strange and
     sad;
   The sun shines less brightly, dark shadows appear;
It means a change has come, we are not glad,
   And perchance there falls a regretful tear.

Farewell ! the vista of the future seems long;
   We are deprived of those to us so very dear;
On the still air falls the farewell song,
   Its melody wafting softly far then near.
 
Farewell ! tenderly bursts the sad refrain;
   Farewell to this class, to me so very dear—
Hope shines on the path before, we'll meet again,—
   Glad summers come with every passing year.

Land nor seas can change memories of the Past,
   The Past where live the dear ones we have loved,
Our friends through weal or woe unto the last,—
   Engraved on my heart are your names, my be-
	lov’d.

But now farewell ! 'tis but the chimes of a bell,
   That warns us of time swiftly speeding along;
And soon in the past they solemnly tell
   We’ll forgotten be, like the notes of a song.

Not so love; it lives forever, knows no decay,
   The heart where love dwells sings a living song;
Upward it leads to mansions far away,
   Where life, and joy, and happiness belong.

If mad surges roll, cling close to your God,
   See His outstretched hands just over the way; 
When like children weary we sleep ’neath the sod,
   May we meet up above in the courts of day.


Sing on Life’s journey Hope's, inspiring song,
	The future will brighten, flowers will spring,
What seems a dark shadow or the way so long,
	May sweet messengers be, and blessings bring.
						L. D. ALDER.
	Theological Class, Second Ward, S. L.,  City
May, 1899.


On the 8th of July there will be a grand
Primary excursion to Saltair.  Everybody
come and see the children.  Good program
and prizes for both boys and girls.


Save Your Money!
And when you set a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS

Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.

SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail 

Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

GARFIELD BEACH.
POPULAR
BATHING
BEACH. RESORT.
OPEN JUNE 22.

Boating, Bathing, Dancing.
TRAIN SERVICE:
LEAVE 	LEAVE
SALT LAKE.	GARFIELD.
10 30 a.m.	1:00 p.m.
2:15 p.m.		5:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m.		7:30 p.m.
6:45 p.m.		10:00 p.m.

Round Trip 25c.

Depot Cor. First South and Fourth West.


Woman’s Exponent
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1899.
Vol 28. No 4.


CONTENTS.
Women’s International Council............. 25.
Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting.. J. S. Woolley 26.
Old Folks’ Day at Parowan, E. Crane Watson 26.
An Interesting Letter....Caroline E. R. Wells 27.
Tribute to Our Women.................... 27.
A Woman Missionary.... Mrs. Addison Pratt 29.
R. S. Reports—Rigby Ward.. Eleanor Homer 30.
	Bear Lake Stake..........N. H. Allred 30.
	Salt Lake Stake.....Augusta W. Grant 31.
Obituary—Myra Clayton Winter.......Com. 31.
Let Us Have Peace..........Josie E. Childs 32.
American Women take Tea with the Queen 32.
EDITORIAL:—Charity and Labor
....................L. L. Greene Richards 28.
	To Sister Elizabeth Stevenson......Lula 28.
POETRY:—Our God and His Prophet
....................L. L. Greene Richards 25.
The Voiceless Syllables of Grass......T. 27


OUR GOD AND HIS PROPHET.

Our God—the God of Abraham,
   Isaac and Jacob, Prophets true;
The Great Omnipotent I Am:
   Let earth proclaim Thy praise anew!

Taking unto Thyself Thine own,
   Thy people mourned a Prophet dead;
Yet when twelve days had scarcely flown,
   Thou gav’st another in his stead.

Let Saints extol Thy name, and praise
   Thy matchless power to guide and bless;
Thy wond’rous work, in latter-days,
Thou cuttest short in righteousness.

Thy Prophet, as in days of old,
   Into Thy Temple dost repair:
Thy love doth marvelous light unfold,
   In answer to his fervent prayer.

With mighty faith he humbly kneels,
   To ascertain Thy holy will:
Thy grace the sovereign mind reveals;
   Thy promises Thou dost fulfill.

The vail ’twixt Thee and man withdrawn,
   Thy people understand and know,
In place of Wilford Woodruff, gone,
   Thou gavest them Lorenzo Snow.

By Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, 
   John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, all,
He's nobly stood and labored 'mong
   Thy chosen people, great and small.

No truer friend hath Prophets known,
   No truer Prophet Saints need seek,
Than he to whom Thy mind is shown, 
   And by whose mouth Thy voice doth
	speak

One like to Moses, faithful proved,
   With sight undimmed and form erect, 
For more than eighty years, unmoved—
   Shall nations scoff? Will Saints reject?

"A full, free tithe the Saints must pay,
   From this time on”—God’s just demand:
Hear it, repeat it, and obey— 
   Ye Saints of God on every hand!

Thus doth the Prophet’s voice declare;
   So shall the Saints be justified;
Shake off the burdens, hard to bear,
   Of self-will, covetousness and pride.

Look to the God of Abraham,
   Ye Saints, and heed His Prophet’s voice;
Honor and serve the Great I Am,
   And in His covenant rejoice.

Spread Zion’s bound’ries far and wide,
   Her Center Stake redeem and build;
So shall our God be glorified, 
   His Prophet’s words be all fulfilled.

Let Zion’s children know and tell,
   Near and afar, where’er they go,
There is a God of Israel,
   Whose Prophet is Lorenzo Snow.
			   L. L. GREENE RICHARDS,
Sunday, July 2nd, 1899.


[Column 1]
WOMEN'S INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL.
	The reports of the Women’s International
Council which have reached this country are
meagre and inadequate, but it is clear that the
Council was a success, both from the exul-
tation of its friends and the growls of its
enemies. A correspondent of the N. Y.
Tribune says:
	"London has offered many unique attrac-
tions for the throngs of visitors this week.
The Woman’s International Council, with
scores of famous women from Europe,
America and the colonies, has been a re-
markable tournament of wit, wisdom and
tact. The House of Lords threw down the
gauntlet in ungallant style on the opening
day by amending the London bill with a
view to shutting women out of the new
Metropolitan Councils. The action of
these three hundred peers, who only turn
out for full dress parade in order to snub
women, frown upon deceased wives’ sis-
ters and affront Erin, has not interfered
with the Council’s leisurely and contempla-
tive rambles in every field of discussion
under the sun. With more than fifty
meetings and the best platform talkers of
the sex to address the delegates, this parlia-
ment of women has been a triumph of or-
ganization, moderation and good sense. If
it has done nothing else, it has offered con-
vincing proof of the remarkable talent of
women for public speaking and the wide
range of their interests under modern con-
ditions of education.
	"Apart from the passage of a resolution in
favor of arbitration, the Council has not
taken definite action on any subject, and
Lady Aberdeen’s presidential address sug-
gested no other motive for the assembly
than the Golden Rule of love, which was a
generalization sufficiently broad for a
World’s Congress, but was neither sensa-
tional nor revolutionary.
	"Lady Aberdeen has been the most con-
spicuous figure of the Congress, presiding
with dignity and grace. Miss Anthony
has excited more enthusiasm than any
other speaker, and the American delegates
generally have done the best work. Among
these are Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stets[-]n,
Miss Genevieve Ward, Mrs. Cynthia West-
over Alden, Miss May Shaw, Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, Mrs. Fannie St. J. Gaffney
and the Rev. Anna Howard Shaw. The
most interesting meeting was that presided
over by Mrs. Kendal, when the drama as a
field for women was considered. Mrs.
Flora Annie Steel, Mrs. Kate Douglas
Wiggin and Lady Lindsay were the chief
figures at a similar meeting under the
head of literature. The delegates have
been entertained at Stafford House, Fulham
Palace and many private houses."
	The London Society of American Wom-
en gave a luncheon at the Hotel Cecil in
honor of the American delegates on July 3.
Mrs. Hughes Griffin, the president of the
society, occupied the chair, flanked by
Lady Aberdeen, the president of the Wom-
en’s International Council, on the right,
and Mrs. Choate, wife of the ambassador,
on the left. The tables were decorated
with red, white and blue flowers, and

[Column 2]
American and British flags were displayed
behind the chair. There were 250 persons
present, all of them women except the
brother of Miss Leonora Jackson, the
violiniste, who plays accompaniments.
	Mrs. Hughes Griffin gave an address of
welcome to the American delegates, and
Lady Aberdeen, on behalf of the Women's
International Council, thanked the Ameri-
can women for the help and inspiration
they had given to women in general. "We
are indebted to the American women," she
said, "for many grand ideas. Much of the
increased brightness of our lives is due to
the fact that it is now granted that women
have a sense of humor."
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, vice-president
of the Council, said that America was be-
coming a country which, by the necessity
of its institutions and relationships, must
move toward internationalism. Mrs.
Charlotte Perkins Stetson and Mrs. Jennie
C. Croly also spoke.
	At one meeting of the Council, which
was devoted to agriculture, Mrs. Alexander
Tweedle presided. Prof. Robertson, of
Canada, said he considered agriculture a
most suitable occupation for women. Lady
Vernon said that dairying was pre-eminent-
ly woman’s work. She urged that atten-
tion be given by women to butter-making
in winter and cheese-making in summer.
Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith, of the School of
Agriculture at the Minnesota State Uni-
versity, advocated stock breeding for wom-
en. Mme. Delen, of Bruges, spoke on the
women’s agricultural work in Belgium.
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine gave an exposition
of silk culture as an occupation for women,
and Mrs. Alexander described ostrich
farming by women in New Zealand.
	At the meeting devoted to women fac-
tory inspectors, the Hon. Mrs. Lyttleton
presiding, a paper by Mrs. Carlyle, of
Canada, was read by Mrs. Carty. It
showed the strides made in Canada in re-
gard to women inspectors and labor legisla-
sion in general.
	"The Scientific Treatment of Domestic
Servants," was another subject discussed.
Mrs. Gates, speaking of the necessity of
training the lady of the house as well as
the servants, complimented the Queen,
and declared that "this queenly woman
and womanly Queen" had had an influence
upon women as mistresses of servants as
well as in other relations of life.
	Dr. Garnett, who presided over the con-
ference of women librarians and indexers,
said that England was far behind America
in paying women librarians.
	Countess Bective presided over the meet-
ing which discussed the aptitude of women
in handicrafts.
	On the afternoon of July 4 the delegates
were entertained at a garden party by Lady
Rothschild at Gunnesbury Park, and in
the evening the Countess of Aberdeen gave
them a farewell reception.—Ex.


KNOWLEDGE is better that wealth, yet
how many people there are in this wicked
world who prefer the inferior article.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting of
June 10, 1899, convened in the 14th ward
hall at 2 o'clock, President M. I. Horne
presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, "We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet," Prayer by
Sister Margaret P. Young. Singing,
"Welcome best of all good meetings."
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
	President Horne said she was pleased to
see so many present; that to come together
to testify of the goodness of God, was food
to our spirits. We should set an example
worthy of patronage before our children.
Spoke of the trials that were before us all,
for this is a day of proving. Spoke of the
trials of the early days in Utah, and of the
thankfulness of our hearts that we could
get away from wicked and designing men.
Exhorted us all to train our children by
attending to our duties as we wish them to
do. Spoke of the word of the Lord to 
President Snow, that the people should pay
a full tithing, and of the blessings we
would receive if we would keep the com- 
mandments of God. These commandments
must be kept if we expect to get the bless-
ings. Referred to the great amount of tea
and coffee used in our State, and said how
wrong it must look to our Heavenly Father
that we cannot let these injurious articles
alone. Said she had heard President Young
say that "those who cannot keep the Word
of Wisdom, cannot go to help build up
Jackson County."
	Sister Barnes said she had been a long
while in the Church, but she knew there
was great room for improvement; that the
Relief Society would grow and its good
work increase.
	A sister in the congregation said she be-
lieved in the law of tithing, and that we
would all be blessed in observing this law.
Another sister spoke in tongues.  Sister
Zina D. H. Young gave the interpretation.
	The congregation then sang "Come let
us anew."
	Sister Julia C. Howe said those who are
raised up to lead us are in the right place.
She had always looked upon the law of
tithing as a test of fellowship; we should
teach our children to pay tithing. Spoke
of Daniel's faith, and the wisdom he gained
by refusing the food from the king's table
and observing the laws of nature. Spoke
of the trial it had been to her to stand up
and bear her testimony, but how she had
been greatly blessed in overcoming this
spirit.
	Sister  Liddle spoke of the blessings she
had received from the Lord and the bless-
ings for observing the law of tithing.
	Sister Brown bore a testimony to the law
of tithing and keeping the Sabbath day.
	Sister Barnes, of the 11th ward, knew
that we were richer when we paid our
tithing, we should always pay the best we
have. She had followed out the plan, and
she knew the Lord had blessed her for it.
	Sister Emily Stevenson spoke of the
blessing of Relief Society work, what a
benefit it is to the poor and sick and
afflicted, and the faithful workers that
would no doubt receive a reward.
	A sister in the congregation bore testi-
mony to the law of tithing. Spoke of how
the adversary will take advantage of us
when we neglect little duties.
	Sister Sanders said she had received
many testimonies in this house. Spoke of

[Column 2]
the blessings derived in observing the law
of tithing.
	Sister Smith said she could bear a testi-
mony that the spirit of God was here; also
spoke of the blessing derived from paying
tithing.
	Sister Isaacs knew that her Father heard
and answered prayers. Would rather go
without a great deal and pay an honest
tithing.
	Sister Wright said she always paid her
tithing, and thanked her Father for His
blessings.
	Sister Haite spoke of the glorious work
we are engaged in. Always felt blessed in
paying tithing and donations. Said she
was always pleased to present the Gospel
to those who would accept it.
Sister Bateman said she knew this was
the church of God, and thanked Him for
the privileges she had, for the Gospel and
the privilege of working in the Temple,
etc.; also testified to the truthfulness of the
law of tithing.
	Sister Cooper said she had always paid
an honest tithing and testified to the truth
of the work.
Sister Julia S. Woolley bore testimony
of the law of tithing and standing firm for
the truth.
	Sister Parry spoke of tithing and the
blessings obtained by keeping the com-
mandments of God.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of the
spirit she had been privileged to enjoy,
and said she knew it was proper to pay
an honest tithing. Spoke of the testimony
of a young man, who said that he owed
his success in life to paying an honest tith-
ing.
	Sister Horne said the Lord knows our
weakness, He will be our judge. Spoke of
the sin in breaking the Sabbath day, and
the temptations that were held out to spend
this day in amusements.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
Zina D. H. Young.

The Semi-Monthly Meeting convened as
usual June 24, 1899 in the 14th ward hall
at 2 o'clock. Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
called the meeting to order. Singing,
"For the strength of the hills we bless
Thee." Prayer by Sister Julia Howe.
Singing, "O, say what is truth." Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she was
pleased to be present, and felt that this
meeting was a school for the sisters; that
the Lord was always present; that we
must be faithful and true to enable us to
cope with evil influences. Thought that
outside of the sisters engaged in this work
so much love did not exist.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said she thought it
very necessary to have our memories re-
freshed often in regard to doing our duty;
said she felt to honor her parents for teach-
ing her to honor God. She was taught the
scriptures, and when she heard the Gospel
she was prepared to accept it. She thought
it was necessary to have humility in order
to understand the Gospel. Referred to the
humility the Prophet Joseph Smith ex-
pressed in his prayer to the Lord the first
time he went into the woods to pray.
	Sister Brown thanked the Lord that He
had given her a knowledge of the Gospel
and permitted her to work in the Temple.
Said she believed firmly in the law of tith-
ing, and spoke of the good spirit that she

[Column 3]
had always enjoyed at these meetings.
	Counselor Stevenson said she had always
been an attendant at these meetings. She
thought it was necessary for the sisters to
come together often and better prepare
themselves to perform their mission in life.
	Sister Margaret Goddard said she was
thankful that her parents were God-fearing
people.
	Sister Barton said she had always be-
lieved in and practiced the law of tithing.
She knew the Lord had sent many bright
spirits in this age to fill the responsible
positions.
	Sisters Munn, Badger and Waterfall bore
faithful testimonies to the truth of the
work we are engaged in.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
					J. S. Woolley, Sec.


OLD FOLKS' DAY AT PAROWAN.
	Parowan, July 3, 1899.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	Under the auspices of the Relief Society
of this ward, "Old Folks' Day" was cele-
brated on the 29th of June; and we believe
our aged fathers and mothers will long
cherish the remembrance of that worthy
event.  At 2 p. m. a feast of choice variety
was enjoyed;  immediately after a creditable
program was rendered, which seemed to
immensely please those very aged and en-
feebled, who seldom get out to public
gatherings.
	Badges were presented by the Relief
Society designating the time spent by the
wearer in this estate.  Each furrowed
countenance would involuntarily relax into
a smile as the souvenir was fastened upon
his breast, so gratified were they at every
recognition of their old age. 
	At the close of the program, cake and 
lemonade were served, when all those
honored veterans were treated to a carriage
drive.  As usual in our little country
towns the affair was finally crowned with a 
ball in the evening, where refreshments
were again in order.  All over sixty were
given complimentary tickets, and it was
really surprising to see how many who had
passed the third score milestone were
yet able to enjoy the pleasures of the ball-
room.
	Thus ended a happy day, one that had 
created new joys in many hearts who had
perhaps thought they were "unhonored
and unsung." Truly we cannot devote
too much time in making happy days for
our aged ones.  There are none who better
appreciate our efforts, and none to whom
we owe a greater debt. 
				E. CRANE WATSON.


As a result of a series of divisions on the
London government bill in the English
House of Commons recently, it was de-
cided by 179 votes to 77 that women should
not be eligible to act as mayors of London.
The question whether women should be
qualified to sit as councilors was deferred,
and will probably be decided in favor of the
women. Women are already serving ac-
ceptably as county councilors in other
parts of Great Britain, and there seems no
reason why they should be excluded in
London. The men on the London County
Council wish for the co-operation of women,
and petitioned Parliament some ten years
ago to let women serve.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE VOICELESS SYLLABLES OF GRASS.
	(In Sea Drift, a just issued volume of poems by
Grace Ellery Channing, occur these stanzas on
Walt Whitman:)
	O'er Tuscan hills I heard it breathed,
And up the olive slopes it ran, 
And then the laurel all began
Singing of brows once laurel wreathed;
	Of bards whose vanished voiced fill 
The resonant, deep valleys yet;
The laurel never can forget,
Such echoes tremble through it still.
	But I—I let the laurel pass,
And pass, the dim Etrurian land;
Far louder sing within my hand 
The voiceless syllables of grass.
	Your music keeps its mighty ring, 
O ancient groves of Tuscany !
But tenfold eloquent to me
The common herb One taught to sing.
	Green art thou, laurel overhead,
Yet somber to this tiny blade,
And some one says that he who made 
The grass and me to live, is dead.
	It may be true—for Italy
Hath seen the night of many a sun;
Thou, O my Country, hadst but one,
If set, how dim thy light must be!
	It may be false—the sky’s as blue,
The ilex has not dropped a leaf 
Nor earth put off a rose for grief,
And yet, for all—it may be true.
	Unruffled, silver olives wave,
Loud sings the laurel where I pass,
But louder still I hear the grass— 
The grass, new growing, on a grave.
							T.


[Column 1]
AN INTERESTING LETTER.
			
Butte City, Montana, June 20, 1899.

Editor Woman's Exponent:

	Agreeable to promise to write to you
from this place, I now undertake to do so.
	I left Salt Lake City on the O. S. L.
9:45 a. m. train, May 16th, for this place,
in response to a telegram informing me of
the serious illness of my granddaughter,
and requesting me to come.
	It being my first trip out of Utah since I
entered it a little child in 1848, I did not
much like the idea of starting out under
such distressing circumstances; but ‘‘neces-
sity knows no law,” and in response to
the call of distress from her children, a
mother will not stop to discuss the order of
her going, but go.
	The journey was accomplished without
any incident worthy of mention, except the
extreme anxiety of mind which I endured
concerning the condition of my grand-
daughter: whether I should find her dead
or alive at my journey’s end.
	The beginning of the journey being
over roads which I had traveled before,
nothing new presented itself to my view
until I reached Pocatello, where a short
stop occurred. My impression of the
town, from what I could see, was a long
row of shops, stores, etc., with scarcely any
residences in sight, which made me won-
der where all the people lived who patron-
ized them. Then on, over hills and rough
places, going after dark through places
that were new to me, so that I was pre-
vented from seeing much that was really
new. 
	Arriving at my destination at 1:05 a. m.
of the 17th, I was met by my grandson
with a carriage and taken to 206 W. Mer-
cury St., where I found my little grand-
daughter out of danger, thanks to our
Heavenly Father, who honored the ad-
ministration of His servants, Elder Chris-

[Column 2]
tian Williardson, Andrew King and Charles
O. Dickson, who had been constant in
their attendance upon her before I came,
and the care of an excellent physician.
	But with her recovery our troubles were
not over. On the day of her leaving her
bed my daughter was stricken down, and
the doctor, after working with her for a
time,told us that she was in a dying condi-
tion and had not probably over two hours to
live, and asked if we wished to call in any
one else. We told him that we had all the
confidence in him that we could have in
any physician, but I said to him: ‘‘There
is One who can do what you cannot do,
and He is God, and His authorized ser-
vants are here, and He will honor them.”
He said: “All right, if you can do anything
you had better do it quick.”
	We sent for the Elders, who came and
anointed her with oil and laid hands upon
her, and she revived immediately. And
when the doctor came in the next morning,
he said he had never seen anything like it
before in his life, her pulse and tempera-
ture being perfectly normal and she prop-
ped up in bed smiling and looking well.
	Then began a struggle which lasted
about a week, in which she suffered two or
three relapses, when it seemed as though
death would claim the victory. But the
Elders stood by us nobly day and night, as
many as five of them surrounding her bed
in circle prayer when she seemed to be dy-
ing, after which she would revive and ap-
pear to be getting well; and at last, I am
happy and thankful to our Heavenly Fath-
er to be able to say, she is on the road to
complete recovery, although at the end of
two weeks of illness she could not walk one
step.
	I am not able, under the circumstances
which have prevented me from going out
much, to tell you much about Butte, ex-
cept what I have observed from our front
windows, which, by the way, are very
favorably located for the purpose in some
respects.
	There are three things that I have
been able to see without going abroad:
	First: All the funerals from the Catholic
Church (and Butte is principally Catholic)
have to pass our house on their way to the
cemetery, and in consequence we see from
one to five almost every day, anywhere
from one block to one mile in length; and
as the service only occupies about ten min-
utes, there is no tedious waiting one for
another, and we sometimes see three or
four within an hour; and once we saw a
double funeral of two miners who were
killed: two hearses and two long rows of
carriages walking abreast. It was quite a
solemn sight.
	Second: The cripples who daily pass the
house on their way to the hospital around
the corner, their limbs gone, limping,
walking on crutches, heads bandaged, etc.
	Third, last but not least by any means:
The throngs that go to the Catholic church
from 6 a. m. until 12 m. on Sunday, there
being a separate mass every hour, and a
new crowd at each one. Every Sunday
forenoon it looks like our conference at
home.
	One week ago last Sunday we saw fifty
or more little girls going to their first com-
munion, all dressed as brides, in white,
with long veils and orange blossoms; in-
deed they are called the brides of Christ.
I regretted that I had not the opportunity
of witnessing the ceremony.
	The little branch of the Church of Jesus

[Colum  3]
Christ of Latter-day Saints here in Butte
numbers about sixty, and is ably presided
over by Brother Christian Williardson, of
Ephraim, Sanpete Co., who, with Elders
Andrew King, Jr., Hyrum M. Larsen and
Sorenson of Cache Co., and Charles O.
Dickson of Provo, Utah, form a power
here for good in spreading the principles of
the Gospel and administering in the or-
dinances thereof.
	They have a Sunday School and Relief
Society, the latter presided over by Sister
Nellie Yanney, with Sister Andrews and
Sister Sarah Larson as counselors, Sister
Larson having been set apart last Sunday
evening. Sister Watt is secretary of the
society.
	The Elders’ headquarters and place for
meetings, socials, etc., is at 902 Utah Ave.,
S. Butte.
	I have had the privilege of meeting with
the Saints in their regular Sunday after-
noon and evening meetings, also Relief
Society meetings, and have enjoyed the
good influence which prevails there, for I
know that it is of God; and I regret that I
did not have the opportunity of meeting
with them upon their festive occasions,
which occur once a week in the form of a
social party.
	The birthday anniversary of President
Young was duly celebrated, and the Relief
Society will in a few days celebrate their
first anniversary.
	Well,although I did not get to see much,
I might occupy more space in describing
my impressions of people and things that
I have met, but my letter is already per-
haps too lengthy, so I will close with kind
love and a hope of seeing you in the near
future.
		Your sister,,
			CAROLINE E. R. WELLS.


TRIBUTE TO OUR WOMEN.
	A representative of the Associated Press
interviewed the Countess of Aberdeen and
others regarding the practical results likely
to accrue from the international council of
women. Lady Aberdeen, who is an en-
thusiastic admirer of the American and
Canadian delegates, said:
	“Every one of them was a skilled ex-
pert and most of them were trained speakers
whom the congress was delighted to hear,
which cannot be said in regard to many of
the other speakers. The Americans, as a
rule, were better informed, more decided in
opinion and further advanced on the lead-
ing topics than any of the other delegates. 
They fairly outstripped the English wom-
en, who, however, were better informed
than the continental delegates in general
knowledge of the subjects pertaining to
women.
	“Mrs. Sewall won the congress from the
first. She has extraordinary tact in deal-
ing with such a large gathering of repre-
sentative women.
	“Miss Susan B. Anthony’s powerful ad-
vocacy of women’s claims distinctly added
to her already great reputation both at
home and abroad.
	“Regarding the results, the grand con-
summation has been reached of welding
together a cosmopolitan body of thoughtful
women, prepared to educate their fellow
women. Twenty-five years hence the
leaven of today will have leavened the
whole world, and the irresistible force of
public opinion will have raised women to
their proper sphere.”


[Column1]
28
Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher,

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m.  to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1899.

[Column 2]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


(Column 1)
CHARITY AND LABOR.
	The same sentiment or attribute so
divinely portrayed by the Apostle Paul in
his first Epistle to the Corinthians, 13th
chapter, which he calls Charity, Henry
Drummond, in his master lecture, “The
Greatest Thing in the World,” designates
as “Love.” That definition of Drum-
mond’s is singularly appropriate and ac-
ceptable; all the more so because an older
writer and greater prophet than he defines
the same thing, thus: “But charity is the
pure love of Christ and it endureth for-
ever.”—Book of Mormon, Moroni, 7th chap.
	The Great Father exercised this charity,
or love, toward His children in the begin-
ning of their career upon this earth, in a
very different way to that in which many
fond parents manifest what they under-
stand to be the most tender love for their
offspring, in these later times. This earth
was created for Adam and his generations
after him. And the Garden of Eden was
planned and planted for him and Eve to
make their home in. But their Father did
not say to them, “My son and my daugh-
ter, this beautiful home is for you to take
your ease and pleasure in, unburdened
with cares and labors, such as your mother
and I have borne in making it for you.”
Genesis 2nd chapter and 15th verse tells us
that “The Lord God took the man and put
him into the Garden of Eden, to dress it
and to keep it. ”
	God’s great love for His son Adam made
Him considerate of his welfare to the ex-
tent that He gave him work to do which
should claim his time and attention and
keep him from running after idlers and
mischief-makers who might be allowed to
find their way into his garden and seek to
decoy him from the path of duty. And
not only did Adam’s Father furnish him
with employment for his hands, but He
had also a tremendous amount of brain
work laid out for him as well. He was
expected to find names for all the beasts of
the fields and fowls of the air: business
enough to keep him actively engaged for
quite a length of time, we would think in
these days.
	But according to modern notions, al-
though Eve received the distinguished and
important appointment of help-mate to
Adam, yet upon her was placed no special
responsibility, except in the first great
commandment which charged the man and
his wife to be fruitful and multiply, and

(Column 2)
replenish the earth. Eve’s life in Eden,
previous to the step which led to the
banishment of herself and husband, has
been regarded in a light akin to the follow-
ing:

In the beautiful garden of Eden,
	Ere the fall of the woman and man, 
Eve must have had a good time—
	Imagine it once, if you can.

Birds in the tree-tops singing,
	Or soaring in balmy air,
Could not be freer than she was,
	From burdens of household care.

No dishes to wash after breakfast,
	No planning of what to have next,
For luncheon or dinner or supper,
	No man disappointed and vexed.

The most luscious fruits always ready,
	Adam would have but to say,
And Eve would have only to gather,
	Whatever they wanted that day.

No ironing, washing or mending, 
	The buttons all torn off and lost;
No household accounts to examine,
	With hopes of reducing the cost.

But, alas, how the tempter beguiled her,
	When he found her with nothing to do!
What a warning to all of her children,
	Reaching even to me and to you.

That too much of wealth and of leisure
	Are not the best things to receive,
Is shown by the record that's given
	To us of our great Mother Eve.

	That all honest industry is honorable, is
a truth too old and too obvious to require
argument. And yet to earn a living by
laborious industry seems to be as much
against the nature of people in general, be-
cause it is erroneously considered more re-
spectable to be able to live without work
than by it, as that it requires self-sacrifice
in some respects to devote time and energy
to industrial pursuits. But there are many
sides to this question of charity and labor.
	While there are those who would pre-
fer to live by the sweat of others’ brows
than their own, there are, on the other
hand, hard-working and generous-hearted
people, who would rather be over-taxed
themselves, for the sake of earning and
handling more money, even though they
divide their earnings with their poorer
neighbors, than to share their work with
them. This, is mistaken kindness, false
charity, and works injury to both parties
concerned. Would it not be far better if
the wise financiers, in our communities
would lend their energies and means to the
systematic arrangement of industries in
which all might find lucrative employment,
instead of the few building up themselves,
being over-worked because of their anxiety
to earn and save, even though they give
liberally of their substance to feed the poor?
Certainly it is better to teach children to
work and earn at least a portion of what
they need and want, than to give them all
they require, demanding nothing in return.
And the same rule will apply to men and
women as well as boys and girls.
	In our charitable institutions, therefore,
evidently the wisest thing to do would be
to create industries in which all who are
able to work might be happily employed,
being kindly encouraged to do their best to
earn their living. Instructions to this effect
were given by the great organizer of the
Relief Society among the Latter-day Saints,
the Prophet Joseph Smith, more than fifty
years ago.
	Great care and prudence would neces-
sarily have to be exercised in the distri-
bution of labor among the poor. A feeble,
delicate woman would not be expected to

(Column 3)
wash and scrub, as a strong, well one
might. But the former would perhaps be
able to braid straw, darn or patch light
material, and find relief in some such easy
work, which idleness could never bring.
And the strong one would probably sing
over her heavier tasks, taking satisfaction
in them which she would never discover in
lighter employment.
	How many there are around us who are
needing to have their work thus planned
out and arranged for them! And how
much happier and more prosperous the
world might be made if the wise managers
would generously and patiently give some
of their time and skill to the instruction of
others on these points; and if those who
are less gifted would be humbly teachable,
and strive to learn! God speed the time
when selfishness shall no longer exist,
when each shall love his neighbor as him-
self, when there shall be no poor, for all
shall be rich in the peaceful enjoyment of
true charity and satisfactory labor!
	L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


TO SISTER ELIZABETH STEVENSON.

“Leaves have their time to fall,
And flowers to wither at the north wind’s breath;
And stars to set—but all—
Thou hast all hours for thine own, oh death !”

	On Friday morning, June 30th, 1899, at
8 o’clock, as the sister workers of the Salt
Lake Temple entered their weekly meeting,
a great solemn hush of more than usual
significance came over them. Sisters Zina
D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith and
Emma Woodruff, (the presidency of the
sisters in the Temple,) were there in their
accustomed places. And nearly all the
workers were present, but Sister Elizabeth
Stevenson was missing. The solemnity
which characterized the opening of the
meeting, and could scarcely be accounted
for in full, continued until its close, when
one announced that as she entered the
house the news had been given to her
that Charles Stevenson was dead! Then a
special prayer for Charlie’s motherwent up.
from that band of earnest, faithful workers
They prayed with loving fervor for every
comforting blessing to be bestowed upon
their bereaved sister, and dropped tears of
true sympathy which only those who have
themselves known sorrow could shed.
	Sister Elizabeth, if there can be any con-
solation in the knowledge that your sister
workers mourn with you the early loss of
your bright, gifted, noble boy, then be
thou comforted.

	“True until death! can more be said ?
	Unto all those who weepeth,
	May we not say of the ‘Blessed dead,’
	He is not dead, but sleepeth?’
	Sleepeth to waken, fair and young,
	When the song of the blest redeemed is sung.”
								    LULA.


WE gratefully acknowledge the gift of
some beautiful flowers from Mrs. Dow,
wife of the warden of the penitentiary.
They were very much appreciated and ad-
mired, and cast quite a cheerful influence
throughout our office.
	ABOUT 2,000 of our old people spent the
day at Capt. Dallin’s popular resort in Utah
Co., on Friday, July 7.  The R. G. W.
Railway Company furnished two fine cars
free of expense.  The resort was crowded
to its fullest capacity, and the time was
pleasantly spent in visiting, picnicing and a
short program of sports.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
		A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
   [Mrs.] Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.
			[Continued.]
	The 10th day of July. Roads unaccount-
able: up and down like the affairs of life. Met
traders with flour and groceries for the poor
emigrants. The men went out in search of
gold; found enough to buy some wine and
brandy to rejoice over the event of getting
safely over the last mountain. We shouted
glory hallelujah! Some of the crowd
thought as did the father of the prodigal
son: ‘‘It was meet that we should make
merry and rejoice.” They wanted a
Jubilee. 
	The 13th day. The horn sounded for
preaching; the people assembled, prayed
and sang hymns.
	Now we are fairly in the gold country—
a land of desolation, a barren desert. The
poor diggers look forlorn. Behold two
men I saw from the state of Illinois, from
the immediate vicinity of my brother, whom
I have not seen for many years! They
knew him, and could inform me of his
welfare. I have been truly homesick to-
day: May the Lord speed us on to our
place of destination. Oh, what a dismal
country ! No feed, no green thing grow-
ing—nothing but gold!
	The 16th day. Camped in an oak grove
near Brown’s, a fictitious name for Porter
Rockwell. Found a spring of clear, cold
water.
	The 17th day. Today arrived Brothers
Amasa Lyman and C. C. Rich, whom we
were most happy to meet. They brought
me a letter from my husband, dated April
24th, the same day he set sail at San Fran-
cisco for the Islands. The heat is almost
insupportable. Several old friends who
came to this country before us, today called
to see us. Men are reckless in this country;
there is great want of woman’s influence.
Filth and confusion throughout the whole
country. Sister Caroline Crosby and I
visited Brown’s and Steward’s. They
treated us kindly and made us presents.
They make money by selling liquors and
provisions to the emigrants. To be obliged
to see drunkenness and listen to profane
language to earn a livelihood, and that
without cessation, how can they endure it!
Preaching today by Brothers Rich and
Lyman. To see their faces and hear their
voices proclaiming the truth so far from
home, is comforting to the soul!
	The 23rd day. Camped six miles from
Sacramento. The public buildings are
made of cloth. Brother Crosby sold his
oxen and wagon for $225.00
	July 24th. One year ago today we at-
tended the great celebration in Salt Lake
Valley. Oh, we hope they will remember
us today, and drink us a toast[-] We are
camped on the north fork of the Sacramento
river; water clear and soft. The brethren
who went back to the mountains after ice
and snow for Stewart’s market, have just re-
turned tired, themselves and teams worn
out. The price has fallen from one dollar
to five cents per pound.
	The 25th. Came down to the great city
that has made such a noise in the world. A
great city it is, for the age of it, but so
filthy it is dangerous for people to stop
there.
	July 26th. Pitched our tents on the
bank of the Sacramento river, unloaded
our wagons and the men who had pur-
chased them took them away. I saw my

[Column  2]
faithful old carriage go, which for four years
had been a sleeping room for my children;
besides I had traveled in it two thousand
miles. It was the last piece of property
that remained of all the labors of my youth,
and that of my husband. I received only
thirty dollars for it, as it was badly worn.
The heat was intolerable. Not a tree to
shield us from the scorching sun. We
were preparing to go on board the bark
Alden, Capt. Alden, bound for San Fran-
cisco. Soon after we unloaded our goods
several gentlemen called, to welcome us
with acts of politeness. They brought in
a variety of refreshments, nice drinks and
pastry. It was thankfully received, weary
and worn as we were.
	A man from St. Louis called, who had
married a particular friend of ours in Nau-
voo. He informed us that his wife’s
mother had died of cholera at his residence
in St. Louis; that he had sent his wife with
two children to Nauvoo, hoping they might
escape that malignant disease.
	Joy and sorrow go hand in hand: we rejoice
to meet old friends, sorrow at parting. Our
traveling companions who were destined for
the mines called to bid us good bye. They
looked sad at the sight of the vessel we had
to embark in. The bark was large and
convenient, but oh, so dirty ! We went
on board, chose our berths, expecting to
have a good night’s rest. No sooner had
we laid our heads on our pillows than the
mosquitos commenced their ravages! Like
a mob of armed men they invaded our
quarters. We all abandoned the cabin and
fled on deck; but all in vain, we could not
elude their vigilance. Two-thirds larger
than insects of the common class, their bites
were like the sting of bees. I wrapped myself
in a thick blanket and sat in my chair. In
spite of all my efforts to cover myself they
pierced me till my feet and ankles became
swollen and inflamed. I wore bandages
wet in vinegar on my wrists, and went
without sleep till I was completely ex-
hausted. The wind was contrary, the
bark could not leave the harbor. The
children complained most bitterly! The
captain sent repeatedly to the town to get a
steamship to tow his vessel out, but ob-
tained nothing but promises. At length
Mr. Tompkins went to engage a steamer.
One came, but he was not with it. The
captain said he had come to take twenty
passengers off the bark. Mrs. Tompkins
inquired why her husband was not with
the steamer: The reply was, “He has
been left by mistake.” She gave credence
to the assertion and hurried us to remove
our goods immediately. My brother-in-
law would not comply, believing it a de-
ception. Eagerly seventeen rushed on to
the steamer, so frantic were we to escape fiom
the furious insects.
	We floated on with speed, found the boat
comfortable. Mrs. Tompkins was not at
all troubled about her husband. She was
certain he knew the way to San Francisco.
The first event on the boat was a long dis-
cussion with a gentleman on the doctrines
of the Mormon church. I preached to him
a Gospel sermon, bore my testimony to a
new dispensation, a renewal of all the gifts
and blessings. He seemed greatly sur-
prised. I left for his perusal a pamphlet
by Orson Pratt.
	We went to our staterooms with high
hopes of rest, but found we had only made
an exchange in the nature of our foes: the
latter having their habitation in the berths.
We struggled through the night, the morn-

[Column 3]
ing found us in the harbor. We made our
way to our friends’ homes, they received us
with great cordiality and made us welcome.
Mrs. Tompkins settled with the captain.
Four days after, Mr. Tompkins arrived. He
was highly offended because we had left
the bark in his absence. He assured us he
was there in four hours after we left with a
steamer to tow the boat into the bay, where
she could make her way alone. His wife’s
feelings were injured by the severity of his
remarks, and he was forced to make an
apology.
	The hearts of the brethren and sisters
who had landed there in ’46 from the old
ship Brooklyn, were open to receive us, to
supply our wants and prepare us for our
voyage across the seas. I found a Sister
Corwin, mother of Samuel Brannan’s wife,
an exceedingly kind-hearted woman, full of
faith and good works. She lived with her
daughter in a house like a king’s palace.
With Sister William Morey I felt much at
home. Shared largely of her benevolence. 
Brother John Lewis came with his carriage
and took us to Mission Dolores, three miles
from San Francisco. The old mission
house was built the year of  “Independence.’’
It resembles some old, ancient abbey,
which it is, built by the Catholics and
used for a nunnery. ’Tis of immense size,
long, dark alleys; with awe they strike the
mind. We spent two weeks there, were
kindly entertained. Numbers there were
in that branch of the Church who showed
us great kindness. A better class of citi-
zens never lived in San Francisco, a city
for money and business. A large fleet of
ships were lying in harbor; the sailors had
all deserted and gone to the mines; no
hands left to the management of the vessels.
They looked like a funeral procession.
There had been a terrible fire in the city a
few months before we arrived, but rapidly
have they made repairs.
	Ten days after Mr. Tompkins came in,
the bark arrived with the remainder of the
passengers. She had been baffling about
two weeks in the bay. Those of us who
had left her felt ourselves fortunate; but
when Mr. Tompkins complained that his
expenses had been too great, I felt it sorely!
Greatly did I regret that I had not means
of my own to go on an errand for the Lord.
What I do for the cause of Christ, I desire
to do at my own expense: and I pray for
means, that I may show my liberality and
willingness to do what is essential to be
done. Mrs. Tompkins never but once re-
ferred to what her husband had done for
my family, and then it was in a passion,
and I forgave her. She is good and true,
and her faith in the latter-day work is
strong.
	After a tarry of five weeks in San Fran-
cisco our passage was engaged to Tupuai,
on board the brig Jane A. Hersey, Capt.
Salmon. We set sail the 15th of Septem-
ber, in fulfillment of a dream my eldest
daughter had two years before, being the
precise time shown in the dream. Myself
and four daughters, my sister, her husband
and one son, two other families, six Elders,
in all twenty souls embarked.
	We found the captain a polite, well-bred gentleman; likewise Capt. Hall, who be-
longed on Tahiti, was returning as passen-
ger, a kind and agreeable man. Mr. Poole,
part owner in the vessel, was on board with
his wife, a sprightly young English lady of
seventeen, very intelligent and agreeable.
There were elements of good society, and
but for the intolerable seasickness we might


have had a delightful voyage. The com-
mon sailors were extremely obliging, striv-
ing to do little acts of kindness to attract
our attention. With the poor fellows a
kind word is appreciated. Our cabin was
large, built on purpose for our accommo-
dation. I had never supposed I should be
sick on the water, but on the contrary I was
the first one taken. I could not endure
the confined air in the cabin. In the morn-
ing my bed was made on deck for the day.
Not a mouthful could I eat except when
lying down. It seemed like raising the
dead to get out of my berth and dress my-
self, yet when I found my life depended
upon it, I could accomplish it by a power-
ful exertion. No dread to me was like that
of being buried in the sea. At times when
I felt like I could close my eyes and drop
out of existence, the thought that they
would bury me beneath the billowing
waves that dashed and foamed against the
bulwarks of the grand old brig, would in
an instant arouse me to a desperate exertion
to go on deck. And well did it happen for
me; my two eldest daughters are natural
sailors, only for a day or two did they com-
plain at all, could walk the deck when the
ship was reeling to and fro. Ellen was at-
tentive and faithful during the whole voy-
age of thirty-five days. Day after day I
lay on the deck, my bones aching, on my
hard bed, bewailing my sad fate, that I
must be forever traveling over the world
without my companion. Sometimes I was
able to read, which was a solace and com-
fort. My secret prayer was to be preserved
from a watery grave.
	When the cry of porpoise or skipjack was
heard, I would call for some one to lift me
up and let me cling to the bulwarks, that I
might feast my eyes on the wonders of the
mighty deep. At such times I would near-
ly forget my weakness. I wished continu-
ally for excitement. Seasickness, how hor-
rible! always dying, and yet you live! The
whole company were sick, no one felt like
praying and administering to his fellows. I
longed to hear prayers, and when at length
the Elders resolved to perform that duty,
and lay on hands to rebuke the disease, we
felt relieved and our hearts were comforted.
I had been severely tried because the
Elders did not officiate in religious duties
on board the vessel. They feared an ex-
citement, knowing the officers were infidel
in their views. The apology did not satis-
fy me. I kept silence, even from good
words, but it was pain and grief to me.
The captain knew we were missionaries.
There were some persons among us who
were disposed to carry tales from one to
another, a principle so detestable that any
lover of peace should spurn it as he would
a venomous serpent.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


(Column 1)
R. S. REPORTS.
		RIGBY WARD.

	Minutes of the Rigby ward Relief Soci-
ety conference held April 27, 1899.
	The meeting was presided over by
Counselor Eleanor Homer. Commenced
by singing, “O, give me back my prophet
dear.” Prayer by Sister Fanny Cellers.
Continued by singing “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Roll called and
minutes of the previous meeting read and
accepted.
	Sister Fanny Cellers said she was thank-
ful to meet with the Saints, felt the Spirit
of God was with us, gave good counsel and

(Column 2)
spoke comforting words to those who were
in trouble. Said it was the duty of every
member to sustain those who were placed
over them: not only by donations, but by
being present at meeting and attending our
duties, that we might always be found
faithful and be united as a band of sisters,
ever striving to go onward and upward,
that when we were through with this life
we could say, ‘‘I have fought the fight and
finished the work Thou hast set me to do.”
	Sister L. J. Barrows asked God to give
her strength to fight against all weaknesses
that flesh is heir to. Made some excellent
remarks on the training of children, and
spoke of the benefits our children would
receive if we would always set them a good
example; for by so doing we were laying
up treasures in heaven, “where neither
moth nor rust could corrupt.”
	Sister Allred related some of her past ex-
periences, and spoke comforting words to
our beloved president, who was bowed
down with grief through the death of her
lovely babe.
	President S. A. Cordon said if it were
not for her faith and hope in the Gospel her
troubles would be more than she could
bear. She knew if she were worthy she
would receive her child again, and that
was a great comfort to her.
	Sister Fanny Cellers sweetly and patheti-
cally sang “Afflicted Saints.”
	Sister Eleanor Homer offered up a prayer
for the special benefit of the bereaved sis-
ter. She afterwards gave some good instruc-
tions; suggested that the Relief Society set
two sisters apart to visit the Primary Asso-
ciation every two weeks. 
	S. F. Saxton bore her testimony, and de-
sired to be ever ready to help to roll the
work along.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by Jerusha Allred.
				ELEANOR HOMER.

		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the conference of the Relief
Society of Bear Lake Stake, held in the
Paris Tabernacle, Sunday June 11th, 1899.
	Meeting was called to order at 9:30 a. m.
by President Julia Lindsay. The choir
and congregation sang, “Our God we raise
to Thee.” Prayer by President William
Budge. Singing, “Softly beams the sacred
dawning.” Roll called: Stake officers
present, six; Society officers, ten.
	President Lindsay said that words failed
to express the gratitude of her heart on this
occasion when we are permitted to meet
under such favorable circumstances and
have with us Apostle Franklin D. Richards,
Sisters Jane S. Richards and F. S. Rich-
ards.
	Apostle Richards said: “The sisters
have requested me to occupy the time this
morning, which I will do cheerfully. I
shall have to leave your meeting before it
closes, in order to fill an appointment in
Salt Lake City tomorrow. My feelings
have been touched by the kindness which
has been shown us since we have been
here, and I rejoice greatly in mingling with
you. This glorious work was commenced
by the boy Joseph in 1820; he accomplished
a great deal from then until 1844. The
Saints will go to Jackson Co., when certain
things have been accomplished. When
the proper time comes, the Lord will open
the way before us.”
	The speaker then dwelt at length upon

(Column 3)
the law of tithing. Said the Saints were
plainly shown the necessity of its observ-
ance, and the blessings to be enjoyed by
those who are honest with the Lord. He
had seen its beginning, and had endeavored
to observe it from that day until the present,
and knew there was great satisfaction in so
doing. Everything we possess should be
tithed. Invoked heaven’s blessings upon
the Saints.
	Sister F. S. Richards had very much de-
sired that in Apostle Richards’ remarks he
would direct a few words to the sisters.
Said: “Though there are many of the
brethren who are willing to aid us, there
are none more willing to labor with and
encourage us than is he.” Spoke of the
great influence our sisters have among
ladies who do not belong to our Church.
We mothers and daughters should care
more for our bodies; we should have a
proper understanding of physical laws.
We should understand the training of chil-
dren, the most important work we have.
Emphasized the great necessity of young
ladies attending Relief Society meetings,
and thus be benefited by the experience of
our older sisters, and partake of the holy
influence we feel in mingling together.
	President Wm. Budge was exceedingly
pleased to hear the law of tithing discoursed
upon by Apostle Richards; the Saints need
awakening to its importance. One tenth
of all we possess belongs to the Lord, and
if we keep it we are robbing Him. Now
is a time for a more full development of
our spiritual nature. "May God bless and
help us to carry out that which we
know to be true; which I ask in Jesus
name."
	The choir sang "The song of the re-
deemed.” Benediction by President James
H. Hart.
	Afternoon session was called to order at
1:40 p. m. by President Lindsay. After
the usual devotional exercises the verbal
reports were given as follows:
	Paris 1st ward, President Jane Stucki;
Paris 2nd ward, President Ashley; Ovid,
President Jensen; Lanark, President Par-
ker; Liberty,Counselor Nora Austin.
	President Lindsay called for a report
from North Liberty; stated that the society
having just been organized there would be
nothing particular to report.
	Bern was reported by President Kunz;
Bennington, President Vanorman; Mont-
pelier, President Hoganson; Wardboro, 
Counselor Kutch; Dingle, President Sparks;
Thomas Fork, President Dalton; Bloom-
ington, President Patterson; St. Charles,
Secretary S. Young; Fish Haven, Counselor
Stock; six societies not reported.
	President Lindsay said it would be folly
for her to occupy the time when we have
with us the sisters who have come from a
distance to visit us, as we are all desirous
of hearing from them. “You are all aware 
of the death of our beloved sister and my
counselor, Elizabeth Collings, with whom
I labored without a jar for years. It is
necessary for me to have another counselor 
to assist me.”
	It was then moved, seconded and carried
that Sister L. M. Hart act as first counselor
in place of Sister Collings; also that Sister
Mary Bagley act as second counselor.
	Sister Jane S. Richards complimented
the sisters on their interesting and brief re-
ports; they were given in a businesslike
manner. We shall have much joy and
satisfaction in our old age if we are always 
kind to one another, and in every way pos-


sible try to lighten each others’ burdens.
Our prayers should be sincere, they should
come from the heart; they should not be
formal, but we should ask for that which
we really desire, as we would ask an earth-
ly parent. Related some of the trying
scenes through which she had passed in the
early settlement of Salt Lake valley, and
how the Lord had provided for her in times
of need. Exhorted us all to be kind to our
fellow beings, feed the hungry, visit and
comfort the afflicted, and not utter a
word that would wound the feelings of
another. Did not advocate programs as a
rule in our Relief Society meetings.
The speaker’s remarks throughout were
excellent, and no doubt will be the means
of many living purer and more charitable
lives.
Sister F. S. Richards said we should en-
courage one another, both our boys and our
girls. Do not wait until people are dead
before we speak well of them. Sister
Richards read a poem composed by Sister
Eliza R. Snow, “The Object of Relief
Societies.” Spoke at some length in an
intelligent manner upon the necessity of
being kind to the poor whoever they may
be.
President Lindsay hoped we might have
sufficient of the good spirit to enable us to
practice the good teachings we have heard
during our conference. Felt very thank-
ful to our sisters for their visit, to the choir
and all who have taken an interest in our
conference.
President James H. Hart expressed great
pleasure in having attended the conference.
We have enjoyed the influence of the
Holy Spirit.
The choir sang an anthem. Benediction
by Bishop Lewis.
N. H. ALLRED, Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
The quarterly conference of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society convened in the
Assembly Hall, Saturday, June 3, 1899, at
10 a. m. Present on the stand were Presi-
dent M. I. Horne and Counselor Clara C.
Cannon, President Zina D. H. Young,
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith, Maria Wilcox
and Maria Nebeker. 
Meeting was called to order by President 
M. I. Horne. Singing, “Arise, O glorious
Zion.” Prayer by Sister Maria Nebeker.
Singing, “O happy home! O blest abode!”
Roll called: twenty city wards and sixteen
country wards responding. Minutes of the
morning session of the previous conference
read and approved.
President M. I. Horne was sorry to see
so few present. It was required of us by
the authorities to meet and transact busi-
ness and instruct each other, and if we did
not do so we would be the losers. The
officers of the society should make an effort
to be present. The Lord will not excuse
us for carelessness and indifference. If we
as mothers set an example of faithfulness,
our children will be apt to follow that ex-
ample. Spoke briefly on the law of tith-
ing. Hoped the sisters would be faithful
to all the duties imposed upon them,
whether of a public or private, character.
Proposed that Sister Clarissa S. Williams
be sustained as assistant recording secre-
tary, which was unanimously carried.
Sister Horne then called for reports from
twenty-one of the city branches. Very in-
teresting and instructive reports were given
by the presidents or other representatives,

[Column 2]
showing an increase in membership and
general interest. The branches are in a
very prosperous condition considering the
financial depression in the city. All were
very much interested in the work, and
were anxious to do their duty to the fullest
extent.
Sister Horne made a few brief remarks of
encouragement, and expressed her satis-
faction in the reports given.
Meeting then adjourned until 2. p. m.
Singing, “Lord dismiss, us with Thy'bless-
ing.” Benediction by Sister Maria Wilcox.
Afternoon session: Meeting called to
order by President M. I. Horne. Singing,
“Come, come, ye Saints.” Prayer by
Sister Webb. Singing, “Now let us re-
joice.” Minutes of afternoon session of
last conference read and approved.
President Zina D. H. Young was the
first speaker. Said we have left all for the
Gospel’s sake, and we should be willing to
make personal sacrifices for the same. We
need to meet often and partake of the
beautiful spirit attending the meetings of
the Saints. Gave some very timely in-
structions to mothers, telling them they
should be strictly honest and truthful in all
their actions, as children are very quick to
notice and know what mothers do. Mother-
hood is a grand privilege, and we should
honor that sacred trust. Was thankful
that the days of using the rod were past;
it was so beautiful to rule by love. Said
that she had been in the Church sixty-
eight years, and had enjoyed her life in
trying to live up to the glorious principles
of the Gospel. We want to live so that we
can have the spirit of the Lord with us al-
ways.
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she de-
sired to be directed by the spirit of the
Lord in every action in life. Believed in
being true to her religion and her friends.
Thought if we loved our religion we
would be truthful and honest, prayerful
and upright. Spoke briefly on the law of
tithing. Said we should live within our
means, that now is the time to learn to
love each other. God is love, and if we
would be prospered and blessed, we must
lead and not drive. Believed that inas-
much as we strive for the blessings of the
Lord, He will bless us.
Professor C. J. Thomas, Sister Maggie
S. Hull and, Sister Maria B. Winder sang
“I know that my Redeemer lives.”
President M. Isabella Horne was the
next speaker. She said that good singing
was a very great source of blessing to us
and those who possess good voices should
feel very grateful. Urged the sisters to
attend their meetings, and spoke of the
good accomplished by attending the semi-
monthly meetings. Said our faith and
works go together, and we will be judged
by them, no matter what our professions.
Spoke of the law of tithing, quoting from
the third chapter of Malachi, and referred
the sisters to the revelation in the Doctrine
and Covenants for instruction on the sub-
ject. Spoke on the subject of storing
wheat: said if the societies did not own
granaries they should store flour in cans.
Sister Sarah Jane Cannon gave an inter-
esting account of a visit in company with
Sister Emma Woodruff, to the Sevier Stake
Relief Society. They found the sisters
energetic and fully alive to their duties.
Sister Clara C. Cannon advised the sis-
ters to read the revelations of the Lord, and
be posted as to the requirements made of

[Column 3]
us as Latter-day Saints. Spoke impres-
sively of the fact that President Snow had
received a revelation in regard to the law of
tithing. Said we should teach our chil-
dren this principle it is a blessing for us to
obey it; it is to test us, bless us and
strengthen us. If we obey it, we are the
gainers.
Sister Pixton, of Taylorsville, was hap-
py to be present. Said we had had good
instructions, why do we not obey them and
put them in practice? “Let us do so; let us
keep out of debt, do right and serve the
Lord with all our might, mind and strength.
Be honest in paying tithing and in every
duty in life.” She thanked the Lord for
every blessing she enjoyed. Said we
should teach our children to honor their
parents, so that their days may be long.
Sister Mary Freeze bore testimony of the
truth of the Gospel, and said she knew for
herself that the Lord had spoken to Presi-
dent Snow concerning the law of tithing.
Hoped to be one of those worthy to help
build up Jackson County.
Sister Mary Hyde was glad to be present,
was always glad to hear the name of the
Prophet Joseph Smith mentioned. She 
knew he was a true prophet of God, and re-
joiced that we have prophets now to speak
to us and tell us the will of the Lord.
By request Sister Maggie S. Hull sang
“The Beautiful City.”
Sister Clarissa S. Williams was glad to
be present. Thought the instructions re-
ceived from the sisters of great benefit if
we would only seek to carry them out.
Thought the labors of the Relief Society a
great and noble work.
A vote of thanks was heartily given
Brother Thomas and Sisters Hull and
Winder for the beautiful music they had
furnished during the meeting.
The Relief Society presidents were re-
quested to see that reports were sent to
Secretary Augusta W. Grant, No. 14 South,
2nd East St., by the 15th of July. Meeting
was then adjourned to meet the first Satur-
day in September.
After singing the Doxology, President
Horne dismissed the meeting in tongues.
The interpretation was given by Sister 
Paul.

AUGUSTA W. GRANT, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	MYRA CLAYTON WINTER.
	It is with feelings of sorrow that we record the
death of Sister Myra Clayton Winter, which oc-
curred at Georgetown, Idaho, June 22, 1899.
	Deceased was born in Mansfield, Nottingham-
shire, England, November 3, 1822. She em-
braced the Gospel at an early age, and emigrated
to Salt Lake City with her sister Sarah, in the fall
of 1853. In July of the following year she be-
came the wife of Thomas W. Winter, then Bishop
of the 5th ward. She became the president of
the first Primary Association organized in that ward,
which position she faithfully filled until her duties
as a nurse compelled her to resign.
	Since the death of her husband in 1882, she has
spent most of her time with her children in Rex-
burg and Georgetown, Idaho.
	Sister Winter was a very kind and loving
mother and a true friend, and her death will be
mourned by all who knew her. She was the
mother of six children, four of whom are still liv-
ing: Bishop T. J. Winter and Mrs. Sarah Rands,
of Rexburg, and Harriet Smith and Celena
Leveridge, of Georgetown.
	Sister Winter was buried, according to her re-
quest, at the place of her death. She died as she 
had lived, in full faith of the Gospel, and in the
hope of a glorious resurrection.
	COM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		LET US HAVE PEACE

	(An address delivered by Mrs. Josie E.
Childs at the recent peace meeting at Orange-
ville.)

	Being chosen to address this large assem-
bly on a subject of vital importance to us
all, I respond with hesitancy, fearing my
inability to handle this great subject with
the intelligence that is due.
	If we look upon the world today as one
great Brotherhood, our hearts will readily
go out to all for their peace and happiness.
And I hope for the success of every nation.
	There is in the heart of every soul a love
for his native land. No melody is so sweet
to him as a national air; no music that can
stir the inner heart with greater depths; no
song that makes the wanderer’s thought
revert homeward as effectually as a song of
his own dear native land! And this is
right, and that right should be respected by
all, except when it infringes upon the
rights of others; then it ceases to be a right.
	It is a hereditary tradition matured in the
breast of man, to support and sustain his
motherland. It is a natural thing for in-
dividuals, neighbors, communities, states
or nations to differ in opinions; to aspire to
greatness above their fellows; to become
jealous of the capabilities that are apparent,
and contention, discord and strife are en-
gendered within their hearts, and enmity is
the result. When this state of affairs is
reached, it only requires a little thing to
fan into flame the burning fire of action.
And that action means, when implied to
nations, war. Nothing brings to the
heart of a patriot the spirit of revenge
quicker than an insult to his country, and
that revenge calls for bloodshed. This is
the great effect of the traditional education
that has been matured in the hearts of men
since time immemorial.
	Today not only our beloved nation, but
the entire world is in a great commotion.
War and rumor of war is extant all over
the surface of the earth; and in the words
of the great prophet: "Peace has been
taken from the earth."
	Fear has taken the place of content.
Men are called from their vocations of life
to fill the ranks in the great battles that are
pending. No more you hear from the
shop of the smith the clang of the ham-
mer in his great brawny hands on the 
heated steel at the forge, accompanied by
his mirthful song. No more the happy
farmer sings all care away, as he gently
turns the soil in preparation for the seed,
and dreams a dream of contentment in the
anticipation of a bounteous harvest of 
"golden grain," weaving the while a
pleasant thought of his loved wife and
little ones, and their wants being abundant-
ly supplied. No more the wife sings
about her work preparing the frugal meal
for her dear ones. All is changed!
	The smith's hammer lies where it fell,
when he hastened to his country's call. The 
shop is empty, he has gone. The husband,
father and son, have gone to defend their
country's honor. The song of gladness is
hushed on the lips of the once happy wife
and mother. A look of anguish and des-
pair has settled upon her face, as her gaze
follows the retreating forms of her dear
ones, whom she may never see again. And,
with her little ones, kneeling before the
Great Father who will never desert her,
she petitions Him for the safety of her
loved ones, her husband, her sons, and in

[Column 2]
her heart of hearts, sues and pleads for
peace.
	The misery and distress of war are terrible!
Want follows in its wake, and today thou-
sands are suffering the pangs of hunger—
literally starving for food that cannot be
had. Many hearts are torn with anguish
at the death of their loved ones! Many
homes are blighted; and even those fortun-
ate enough to return, through fatigue and
exposure are maimed perhaps to such an
extent they will never be able to go back to
their old occupations. And perhaps, through
the life-long suffering before them, they
will regret that they were permitted to live
at all!
	Oh, my friends, this is not a picture
drawn from the imagination, that will per-
ish through the lapse of days! There are
many poor men and boys, living and dead,
that stand as a monument of the distressing
reality of war!
	Looking at the world as it stands today,
should we not with one accord plead for
peace? Should we not seek a better way
to adjust our wrongs? Should we not
petition the law-makers of every country
to devise means that wrongs may be righted
without war? Should we not pray the
Great Ruler that He will touch the
hearts of the law-makers of the earth, and
reveal to them a more perfect system of
righting wrongs, that peace may be re-
stored to the earth again? May our efforts
accrue to bettering the conditions that exist!
	Christ said: “A good man out of the
good treasures of his heart brings forth
that which is good.” May we hope that
we all are sufficiently good that a blessing
for good may follow this move; that peace
may be restored; that the earth will yield in
its strength; that want and misery may
be banished, and prosperity take its place.


AMERICAN WOMEN TAKE TEA
		WITH THE QUEEN.
	A number of the American, colonial and
continental guests of the International Con-
gress of Women having expressed desires
to pay their respects to the queen, Lady
Aberdeen arranged a trip to Windsor on
the afternoon of July 7th, when her majesty
assented to the suggestions that she should
drive slowly through the quadrangle of the
castle and receive a few of the more prom-
inent delegates. It was about twenty
minutes past five when the delegates took
up a position in front of the private en-
trance. A quarter of an hour later her
majesty appeared and Lady Aberdeen made
the presentations.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, who, with Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, the newly elected
president of the congress, enjoyed the priv-
ilege of presentation, said to the cor-
respondent of the Associated Press after-
wards: ‘‘I had never seen the queen be-
fore, and could not but feel a thrill when,
looking into her wonderful face, I saw her,
as her life is going out, welcoming this
woman’s movement which is the precursor
of the twentieth century. What pleased
me most was when her majesty said: ‘Now,
cannot have the ladies who are visiting
me return without giving them a cup of
tea.’
	“Sir Arthur Briggs, the queen’s private
secretary, replied: ‘But, your majesty, they
are here in hundreds. ’
	“ ‘I don’t care,’ said the queen, ‘if they
are in thousands, they must all have a cup


of tea when they come to see me.’ And
we had it in the queen’s palace as a recog-
nition of the great womanhood of our
country." 
	Mrs. Sewall said: “The queen looked
ten years younger than when I saw her 
three years ago. The whole bearing of
her majesty was a symbol that she, who
has governed the mightiest of empires for
sixty-three years, has finally recognized
intuitively that she crowns her work in
recognizing the claims of her sex to equal
rights with men.”


Save Your Money!

	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.

		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
	
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			
			Lorenzo Snow, Prest.
			George M. Cannon, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
		SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R.K.THOMAS
GARFIELD BEACH
POPULAR
BATHING
RES0RT
OPEN JUNE 22.

Boating, Bathing, Dancing.

TRAIN SERVICE:
[Column 1]
LEAVE 
SALT LAKE. 
10 30 a.m
2:15 p.m.
4:30 p.m.
6:15 p.m.
[Column 2]
LEAVE 
GARFIELD.
1:00 p.m.
5:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
10:00p.m.
RoundTrip 25c.

Depot Cor. First South and Fourth West.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

