Vol. 28.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1900.		No. 24


CONTENTS.
One Who Saw Gen. Lafayette . . . . . . . . . .
			Mary Ellen Kimball . . . . . .	120
Report of Utah Society D. R. .  E. B. Wells	129
Anniversaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	130
Ladies’ Monthly Meeting . Julia A. Wooley	130
A Beautiful Life . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E, B. W,	131
Address to Gen. Assembly D. R. E. B. Wells	131
Colonial Dames of America . . . . . . . . . . . .	131
Gen. Conference Relief Society E. B. Wells	133
Anniversary meeting and Dedication . E. S.	134
Oneida Stake Conference . . . . Annie Hatch	135
Obiturary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	135
EDITOBIAL—Volume Twenty-eight . . . . .	132
Gen. Society Daughters of the Revolution .	132
Brigham Young’s Birthday . . . . . . . . . . . . .	132
Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	132
POETRY—Women and War Ella W. Wilcox	129
The Last Letter . . . . . . . . . . Lydia D. Alder	131


WOMEN AND WAR.
We women teach our little sons how wrong
And how ignoble blows are; school and church
Support our precepts and innoculate
The growing minds with thoughts of love and
	peace,
“Let dogs delight to bark and bite,” we say;
But human beings with immortal souls
Must rise above the methods of a brute
And walk with reason and with self-control.

And then—dear God! you men, you wise, strong
	men,
Our self-announced superiors in brain,
Our peers in judgment, you go forth in war!
You leap at one another, mutilate
And starve and kill your fellowmen and ask
The world’s applause for such heroic deeds. 
You boast and strut; and if no song is sung,
No laudatory epic writ in blood,
Telling how many widows you have made,
Why then, perforce, you say our bards are dead
And inspiration sleeps to wake no more,
And we, the women, we whose lives you are—

What can we do but sit in silent homes
And wait and suffer? Not for us the blare
Of trumpets and the bugle’s call to arms— 
For us no waving banners, no supreme.
Triumphant hour of conquest. Ours the slow,
Dread torture of uncertainty, each day  
The bootless battle with the same despair,
And when at best your victories reach our ears,
There reaches with them to our pitying hearts,
The thought of countless homes made desolate
And other women weeping for their dead.

O men, wise men, superior beings say,
is there no substitute for war in this
Great age and era ?		* * *
Why should we women waste our time and words
in talking peace when men declare for war?
				ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


ONE WHO SAW GENERAL LAFAYETTE.
	It is indeed a great satisfaction to me to
know that the school children of our nation
have contributed their pennies toward
the erection of the monument in Paris to
America’s great friend, Gen. Lafayette.
	This carries me back to the days of my
childhood, when I saw this great and good
friend to Gen. Washington, who, by the
help of the Deity gained the victory for the
American people and we became a free and
independent nation.
	Now, I must tell you when and how I
saw Gen. Lafayette. It was in the year
1824, on his last visit to America. I was
but a child about seven years of age. My
home was at Whitesborough, four miles
west of Utica, New York. This being the


home of Col. White, it was named for him,
I suppose; and he being a choice friend of
Gen. Lafayette’s, he chose to come there to
make him a visit.
	I shall never forget the bowery erected on
this occasion; so high, and covered with
evergreens and flowers—so lovely I can see
it yet, the floor covered with a nice carpet,
a sofa, a few chairs and a table for the clerk
to write his speech. The floor or platform
being raised about two feet from the ground,
the people must step up there to shake
hands with him, which, of course, every-
body wanted to do.
	I took great pleasure in looking at him.
He was a fine looking old gentleman, about
sixty years of age, I should think. After
speaking, he requested that he might have
dinner under the large oak tree in front of
Col. White’s house, where he had eaten in
the time of the Revolution, with Col.
White. This was done, everybody helping
to do it. The children had the pleasure of
being spectators, and finally went home,
when all was over, hearing the music of
some of the war tunes, I suppose.
	Although I was but a child, I find we
can well remember, and find such things
make a lasting impression on the mind.
		MARY ELLEN KIMBALL.
April 23, 1900.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF UTAH SOCIETY D. R.
BY MRS. E. B. WELLS.
	[Read at a meeting of the General Society in
New York City, April 24, 1900, by Miss M.
Mabelle Snow.]
Madame President General, and Daughters of
	the Revolution:
	Time flies so swiftly that it seems but
yesterday since we made our report to the
annual meeting, in Philadelphia, last year,
and I regret that we have not made greater
progress in actual work, or greater increase
in membership; however we are not dis-
couraged, but of the many who have prom-
ised to join us, we hope to double our num-
ber this year. It is not for want of
patriotic sentiment that our growth has
been slow, but owing more to the many
duties and responsibilities that claim atten-
tion. Nearly all our members are interested
in other organizations that occupy so much
precious time, and that seem more essential
to everyday life, in the present.
	Yet our hearts are deeply touched with
the spirit of this work, and we are expect-
ing to make a special study of the Colonial
period. So far the papers read at our
meetings have all been of a patriotic and
historic character, even those descriptive of
the visit of the delegation last year to
Pennsylvania. Busy women, especially
mothers of families, find it a little difficult
to adapt themselves to a regular course of
study. I fear I am only telling you what
has not been done instead of reporting the
few things that the Society has undertaken.
Besides regular business meetings, we have
held several social gatherings that have
been successful in binding us more closely
together, and we have always aimed to
make them patriotic in outward seeming by

[Column 2]
displaying the stars and stripes in decorat-
ing, and wearing the national colors, as
well as intensely patriotic in reality and in
the character of our exercises.
	As a Society we are proud of the oppor-
tunity to contribute to the Valley Forge
Monument Fund, and sincerely hope to do
more in the future for so noble a purpose,as
beautifying that historic spot made forever
memorable in the history of American inde-
pendence.
	We celebrated the Boston Tea Party in the
very best style possible at so remote a
period, and so far removed from the scene
of actual occurrences. All our music, exer-
cises, poems and papers were descriptive of
the memorable, historic event, and our re-
freshments were old Yankee delicacies. We
had a number of invited guests who gave
toasts and made stirring speeches with the
true ring of heroism.
	We expected to observe the nineteenth of
April, the battle of Lexington, in as appro-
priate a manner as possible, and make the
day impressive with music national songs,
etc., but were forestalled in this by
the Sons of the American Revolution
who arranged a magnificent reception and
ball in our city, and honored our Society
as well as the D. A. R., by inviting every
member of both societies to unite with them
in commemorating the day; so we must
look for the next remarkable day of revolu-
tionary fame and make a record for our
Society worthy of mention in our history.
	If we have not added new members in
the ordinary way, we have had an increase
of both sons and daughters of revolutionary
descent that in a few years may add to the
membership of the little juniors. These
little strangers have gladdened the hearts
and homes into which their advent has
been made. Two sons and two daughters
have been born to our young mothers since
our report last year; and we have also had
one marriage, Miss Farnsworth, of our last
year’s delegation, to Mr. Henry C. Lund,
attorney at law. This fact may have re-
tarded our work somewhat, as also the ab-
sence of the Regent, in London, duing the
summer months attending the International
Council and Congress of Women.
	At the annual meeting, March 1st, the
Utah Society presented the retiring Regent
with one of the elegant badges of the D. R.
which was an expression of love and appre-
ciation on their part she felt most deeply,
and while proud and happy to wear it, rep-
resenting, as it does, the principles for
which the Society stands, it must and will
be a constant reminder of the obligations
accepted when uniting herself with the
Daughters of the Revolution throughout
this, glorious Republic of America, and
should make each of us who wear it more
truly the representatives of those great
principles of freedom and liberty for which
our ancestors fought so valiantly and en-
dured so much.
	The election of officers resulted in an all
most entire new Board, and as they are al-
comparatively young women, it is ardently
hoped, at least by the retiring Regent, that
the work accomplished this coming year


may eclipse all that has heretofore been
even contemplated.
	As a list of names of officers has already
been forwarded to the secretary, it is need-
less to give them here as most of them
would be unknown, and we will, therefore,
let their future works praise them.
	It is doubtless understood by all members
present that the Utah society is incorpor-
ated and that though little has been done
in the past, as we are still in babyhood, yet
we have “Great Expectations’ and look for-
ward to the time when the General Society
will honor Utah by holding its annual
meeting in the valley of the Great Salt
Lake, where only half a century ago the
Great American Desert lay barren and
desolate, peopled only by savages. Our
members, with the exception of the writer,
were all born and reared in that inter-
mountain region, yet their heritage of free-
dom is like your own, and they hold as
dear and as precious the gifts bequeathed
from their honored ancestry,—freedom,
liberty and individual responsibility.
	Should you come and hold your annual
meeting in Utah, you would receive a
royal welcome to our hearts and homes, and
behold the grandeur of the everlasting hills
that stand like sentinels around our valley,
and the famous Salt Lake, the Dead Sea of
America.
	We congratulate the General Society on
the standard of excellence it has attained,
and so far as the Utah society may be able
to assist, we pledge its support to help for-
ward this patriotic movement in every way
possible with hearts and hands and earnest
endeavors; for we in the West, like our
Eastern sisters, are devoted heart and soul
to the principles of American Independence.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward hall, April
14, 1900, with Counselor Elizabeth J.
Stevenson presiding. Singing, “Though
nations rise.” Prayer, Counselor Elizabeth
Webb. Singing, “Welcome best of all
good meetings.” Minutes of January 6,
1900, read and approved.
	President Horne came in and addressed
the meeting: “We as sisters are thankful
for the day that these meetings were or-
ganized. The sisters come here and are
fed the bread of life and their burdens are
lightened. The adversary has a great deal
more power than we think and we must
gain strength to resist this power.” Spoke
of the trials of Job and bow he proved him-
self faithful to God. “We must be very
charitable and not judge one another harsh-
ly, but cleanse and purify ourselves. We
must not find fault with the authorities.
When the law is given us it is our duty to
obey.”
	Sister Barrow said she knew we had to
be tried and proven. Believed the mothers
had a great responsibility to bear, we must
live near unto God, never neglect our
prayers and teaching our children the princi-
ples of the Gospel.
	Sister Johnson said she felt thal our being
here today was an evidence that we have a
testimony. Said she knew this was the
Church of God.
	Sister Barton felt that it was a great
privilege to know this is the Church of
God, and she knew it:
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn and
the congregation joined with her.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said she al

[Column 2]
ways had attended these meetings since their
organization fifty years ago, and was thank-
ful she had had the privilege. Spoke of the
death of her son and how the Lord had
shown to her that he would lose nothing by
his premature death. Spoke of the neces-
sity of prayer, and that this is a progressive
religion. Wished the young sisters would
meet with the elder sisters, felt it would be
such a help to them in raising their chil-
dren. Realized it was necessary for us to
do Temple work.
	The congregation sang “The trials of the
present day,” led by Sister Martha Morris.
	Sister R. R. Grant said she loved the
society of the Saints, felt to thank all for
their faith in her behalf in the prayers that
had been offered for her hearing. She had
visited all the Temples and had been bap-
tized in all of them. Spoke of her ac-
quaintance with the mother of the Prophet
Joseph and others associated with him.
Believed we were the most blessed people
on the earth. Felt we should set a good
example before our children and how nec-
cessary it waff for the young people to pre-
pare themselves to carry on this work of
the Lord.
	Sister Dora Pratt, from Mexico, said she
was a teacher in the Relief Society there.
They were far away, but were striving to
work in unison with the society here. She
felt that the women of the Latter-day Saints
had great and grand privileges.
	Sister E. Webb felt that the good that
can be accomplished by the society was un-
limited, wondered what we should do with-
out it. Spoke of the great gift of faith,
and how it should be cultivated among us,
related how she was healed by the power of
faith. Spoke of the many temptations sur-
rounding us.
	Sister Silver spoke of the blessing that
tithing paying had been to her, felt that the
Lord was so good to us. The path of duty
is the path of safety.
	Sister Butterworth spoke of her experience
in crossing the plains, and how God had
blessed her. She was the mother of eigh-
teen children.
	President Horne related a dream of Presi-
dent Woodruff; also related how her grand-
children had been healed by faith.
	Sister Bateman bore a testimony of the
truth, and Sister Woodward, from Kamas,
Summit Co., said she felt thankful for the
privilege of attending these meetings and
of being a member of the Church. She
had been a member fifty years.
	Counselor Stevenson admonished all to
teach their children and grandchildren the
principles of the Gospel, if you do not
understand the principles, get some one
who can explain them.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks, every
other is the officers’ meeting. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction by J. S. Woolley.
		JULIA A. WOOLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
ANNIVERSARIES.
CEDAR CITY.
	March 17 was celebrated by the Relief
Society holding a meeting in the Taber-
nacle. The usual opening exercises were
rendered, and readings, speeches, songs
and recitations made an agreeable time for
all present.
	The 2nd of March was the 80th anni-
versary of the birth of one of our pioneer
sisters of this place, Sister Margaret S.
Mackelprang. A party was given by

[Column 2]
members of the family at the home of her
eldest daughter. Many friends and rela-
tives met in honor of her birthday, and a
pleasant time was enjoyed by all.
	Sister Mary A. Dover, an active mem- 
ber of our society, also reached the sixtieth
year of her age on the 20th of this month,
and her numerous family, with many
friends assembled at her home to com-
memorate the occasion.
				J. P. M., Cor. Sec.
CHESTERFIELD.
	The Relief Society celebrated anniversary
day, March 17, 1900, by fasting and prayer.
Meeting was presided over by President
Columbia F. Loveland. Singing. Prayer,
Bishop J A. Toleman. Singing. The
roll was called and minutes of meeting
held one year ago were read.
	Sister Mary E. Parker read an article on
the organization of the Relief Society of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
The meeting was then given into the hands
of the brethren and sisters present to occupy
in bearing their testimonies.
	Sister Mary A. Call, Stake president, felt
thankful when the president spoke about
celebrating in fasting and prayer; was also
thankful that none had been laid away
since our last celebration. Spoke to the
mothers about living lives worthy of imi-
tation.
	Alice Yancey and Ann Sessions, counsel-
ors to President Loveland, felt that it was
good to fast and come and speak of the
goodness of God towards us.
	President C. F. Loveland was pleased to
see so many present, especially as the sis-
ters felt that they were doing their duty and
thought it would do us good to fast.
	Sister Sarah M. Call, counselor to the
Stake president, asked the Lord to help us
live unitedly.
	Sisters Mary A. Toleman and Mary V.
Muir each bore faithful testimonies to the
work we are engaged in, also Sisters
Martha Reese, Rosetta Loveland and
Elizabeth Loveland spoke of the goodness
of God towards them, also of the good
work we are engaged in.
	We then had instrumental music by
Charlotte Toleman, after which Sisters Fannie
Call, Clara Jenson, Mary Loveland, Dora
Barlow and Ella Toleman bore their testi-
monies.
	Bishop Toleman said he had been well
paid in coming and listening to the testi-
monies of the sisters. Was thankful for
the labors the sisters had done in this ward.
	Counselor Carlos Loveland said this was
the first Relief Society meeting he ever at-
tended, but hoped it would not be the last,
he thought the sisters a great help.
	Brother Nickles, of Salt Lake Co., felt at
home, as he felt the same spirit that existed
everywhere among the Saints. He had
also enjoyed the meeting very much.
	Sisters Eliza Toleman, Mary Reese, Clara
Laird and Annie Moss each bore their testi-
monies.
	President C. F. Loveland thought the
time had been well taken up, had enjoyed 
the remarks of her brethren and sisters.
	Minutes were then read and accepted, and
meeting closed by singing. Benediction
by Carlos Loveland.
	A party was given in the evening to
celebrate the occasion, under the auspices
of the Relief Society.
	Your sister in the cause of truth,
		ALICE M. CARD, Sec. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LAST LETTER.
’Tis evening; over the noise of battie,
Throgh high among the crags the sounds still
	rattle,
Spion Kop is taken, proud the English feel,
Though many tears are failing, where soldiers
	kneel
Over the prostrate form, of a comrade slain,
Who will hear the bugle call never again.
Deep groans from the wounded, lying in their
	gore,
Some in anguish crying, some their God implore.

The ambulance is waiting, carry them there,
Lift them so tenderly, ’tis a mother’s prayer;
Smooth the curling hair from foreheads damp and
	cold,
For the glazing eyes no morrow will behold,
Lying on a pallet, overwrought with pain,
’Mong the scenes of childhood, mem’ry plays
	again,
Mother is standing close by the open door,
With the radiant smile, the dear face always
	wore.

“Write, write,” cries the voice, growing more
	faint and weak,
“Tell her the loving words, I shall never speak;
Pray I, for forgivness—God’s blessings on her,
I loved her though I wounded—how my eyes blur!
On her breast I’m lying, soft she smooths my
	hair,
And I hear the music of her evening prayer;
What a drowsy feeling, now to rest I go,
Her kisses on my forehead, that thrill me so.

“I think when I read that sweet story of old.’
Yes these are the words: why blows the wind so
	cold ?
‘I wish that his hands had been placed on my
	head,’
Hers so softly I feel there, in Christ’s own stead.
List! I hear her singing, as the angels do,
The sound floating far away, where the skies are
	blue.
The dear old home seems heaven, peace every-
	where,
Father gently nodding, in his old arm chair.

“No, I’m never coming home, but she’ll come to
	me,
And tell her I will meet her by the Silver Sea.
O, how cold the river, and how dark the way,
And you look so strangely, and so far away.”
Now the letter is written, and all is o’er,
No sorrow nor anguish, will his heart know more;
Other mothers are weeping all o’er the land,
Moans of anguish are heard in each broken band,

Spion Kop is taken, vict’ry to the strong,
The Tugela unmoved, slowly glides along;
The ripples on its bosom, tell no sad tales,
But the wash on its banks sounds like human
	wails.
Yonder the mountains tall, stern silence keep,
High on their rugged sides, the wild flowers sleep;
The murm’ing winds tumultous voices are,
Echoing again the sounds that came from far.

The mountain was bought with blood and car-
	nage, too,
The dangers of the winding pass no one knew;
Inglorious on the morrow ’tis left again,
Retreating backward to the rolling plain,
And this is glory, this a battle won,
What wonder that in darkness was veiled the sun;
Or that chilly night winds, sigh a requium,
Or that stars are blinking above the battle’s din.

God hear the widow’s cry! chain the demon war,
Halt the sad procession of the fun’ral car;
Charge blood up to the nations who Thee despise,
And never heed Thy counsel, though good and
	wise.
Bare thy arm in fury, for the weak proclaim,
Trodden under foot of man, among the slain,
May death and wrong be vanquished, and tyrant’s
	power,
Soon the cry go forth, “’Tis my scourging hour.”
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Watford, Herdfordshire, England.


A BEAUTIFUL LIFE.
	A very enjoyable social gathering to
celebrate the birthday of one of Utah’s
famous pioneer women of ’47, was
given, at the residence of Mrs. Alonzo E.
Hyde, in honor of her mother, Sister Jane
Ballantyne Taylor, wife of the late Presi-
dent John Taylor, on her reaching the ad-


vanced age of eighty-five years. There
were assembled on that occasion several
women veterans in the Church, the oldest,
the wife of Apostle Orson Hyde, Sister
Mary Ann Price Hyde, who is but one
year younger than Sister Taylor; Sister
M. Isabella Horne, eighty-one years of
age and also a pioneer of ’47. Sister Zina
D. H Young, seventy-nine; Sister
Bathsheba V. Smith, who was seventy-
eight on the 3rd of May, and Sister
Jane S. Richards, seventy-seven. There
were other representative women present
among them Sisters Elmina S. Taylor,
Sarah Jane Cannon, Margaret Y. Taylor,
Matilda M. Barratt and others.
	An elaborate dinner was served, the
beautiful granddaughters of the aged lady
waiting upon the distinguished guests.
Covers were laid for twenty-three, the only
absentee was Sister Priscilla P. Jennings.
Sister Zina pronounced the blessing.
	During the afternoon Sister Maggie C.
Hull entertained the ladies with one of her
choice Scottish ballads. Sister Hull has
just enough of the Scotch accent to ac-
centuate her singing and remind one of
the Highlands and hills of heather.
Naturally the conversation was of a rem-
iniscent character.
	Sister Taylor’s life, if we may be per-
mitted the comparison, has been one
long, sweet poem, with a number of vari-
ations in style and form and here and there
a vein of sadness, though the lines and
rhythm are always inexpressibly tender
and true to upright principle. May her
pure life of integrity to truth, and loyalty to
the Gospel be a shining example to the
daughters of Zion and to all Israel. And
when her light goes out in this world, may
the angels of our Father’s presence lead
her gently through the pearly gates into
everlasting light and life.
						E. B. W.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS TO GENERAL ASSEMBLY D. R.
Madame President General and Ladies:
	It is almost impossible for one of an emo-
tional temperament to express in words
what the heart prompts on an occasion like
this. We are proud to honor the heroes of
today who fought at Santiago and stormed
San Juan—but our souls are large enough
not only to lay trophies at the feet of the
brave men of the present, but to remember
those that set them the example of main-
taining liberty and establishing indepen-
dence: the brave men who fought with the
immortal Washington, and made it possible
for the generations after them to enjoy the
fruits of their great victories; the seed they
planted, not only in the soil of America,
but in the hearts of their countrymen, their
children and children’s children.
	To perpetuate their valiant deeds in
bronze and marble is eminently proper and
fitting, a noble duty and a grand achieve-
ment; but we who live today can do even
more; we can help maintain the principles
for which the Revolutionary fathers bled
and died. It is more noble, more patriotic,
to live for a sublime principle, to attain an
exalted standard of excellence, worthy the
highest aspirations of the human heart,
than to build shrines to the memory of
Saints or heroes.
	When one is mindful of the fact that here
assembled are hundreds of the daughters of
heroes and heroines of the Revolution, and
looking backward retrospectively imagine

[Column 2]
the hosts on “the other side” whom these
represent here, recounting their heroism,
their deeds of valor, does it not thrill
every fibre of one’s being with the ardor of
that patriotism with which they who have
passed away were inspired? Shall we not
be zealous in this good cause, and see to it
that as far as it is in our power, our children
and the generations yet unborn shall per-
petuate the memory of the men who suf-
fered for liberty—that some of our contem-
poraries hold so lightly and make no effort
to <honor> their names.
	I fear the children of the present age are
taught more of the heroes of Greece and
Rome than of those of their own native
land. Our poets sing of the troubadours
and crusaders, and extol their deeds of
valor and of adventure, and neglect their
own forefathers, whose thrice precious in-
heritance of freedom they possess and for
which many of them render no fitting
tribute.
	Cannot some of our great American
writers be inspired to give us more songs of
America, such as shall thrill the masses of
the people with exalted ideas of true liberty?
	If we would maintain in our beloved
country the principles of justice and up-
rightness, then we must ourselves be living
exponents of these exalted ideals and attain-
ments, that the children may partake and
be imbued with the same spirit, that when
we go hence, those who follow after may
continue the good work that has already
made such marked progress in the last few
years, the Society of the Daughters of the
Revolution.
	All honor to the noble women who
founded it; whose hearts have assuredly
been turned to the fathers by a portion of
that spirit, spoken of in the Scriptures in the
last verse of the last chapter of the Old
Testament.
	And, in conclusion, my dear fellow-
laborers, above all “Let us love one
another.”
			EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	New York City, April 24, 1900.


COLONIAL DAMES OF AMERICA.
	The National Society of Colonial Dames
of America, at their recent annual meeting
in Washington, voted to send Mrs William
Reed, of Baltimore, to the Paris Exposition,
to represent the society at the unveiling of
the statue of Washington. A resolution
also was adopted suggesting that the
societies of the several states extend their
researches as far back of the Revolutionary
period as possible, and secure letters and
papers preserved in families relating to the
earlier Colonial times. Miss Wharton, of
Washington, read a paper showing that the
society had purchased a large number of
historical houses, principally in New Eng-
land, and had encouraged patriotism among
the school children throughout the country.
	Officers for the coming year were elected
as follows:
	Mrs. Howard Townsend, of New York,
president; Mrs. Gillespie, of Pennsylvania,
first vice-president; Mrs. Herbert Claybourn,
second vice-president; Mrs. Samuel Cole, of
Connecticut, third vice-president; Mrs.
William Reed, of Baltimore, secretary; Miss
Jackson, of Baltimore, assistant secretary;
Miss Elizabeth Nicholas, of Washington,
treasurer; Miss Emil Richter, of New
Hampshire, registrar; Miss Wharton, of
Philadelphia, historian.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton. South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, May 15, 1900.


VOLUME TWENTY-EIGHT.
	This number of the paper closes Volume
28 and our patrons and friends of the dear
little home paper are reminded that it is a
good time to renew subscriptions, or to
pay np whatever is due on the old and
help the new volume, now to be com-
menced, to begin on a sure basis financial-
ly. The women of Zion more especially
are greatly indebted to the EXPONENT for
aid in their undertakings in organizations
and industries and many other ways too
numerous to mention, and of which we be-
lieve they are well aware, but do not al-
ways remember that a paper needs financial
support, and when lacking in that, cannot
be promptly issued. Instead of feeling
that it is for want of the needful the sisters
think it is the fault of the management.
But the editor most solemnly assures them
to the contrary. There is no good reason
in these days of prosperity why the sisters
should not patronize their own paper. One
dollar a year; they would never feel it, it
does not amount to ten cents a month, nor
yet two cents a week; and yet the dear sis-
ters who do appreciate the paper often say
there are single articles published that are
worth more than one dollar to them. In
view of the real and positive benefits ac-
crueing to the women of Zion, we hope
and trust that the presidents of all branches
of the Relief Society everywhere will feel
it a duty and responsibility devolving upon
them, to see that the respective ward where
they preside is well canvassed and subscrip-
tions solicited now at the beginning of the
new volume twenty-nine.


BRIGHAM YOUNG’S BIRTHDAY.
	The ninety-ninth anniversary of Brigham
Young’s birthday is to be made a day of
rejoicing and elaborate ceremony, and it
is eminently fitting that it should be so,
that all the people of Utah and the ad-
joining country may remember this great,
good and wise man who builded not only
for his own people and followers but for
the world and generations yet to come;
who opened up the desert and cultivated
the land and colonized in the midst of this
intermountain, uninhabited region. On
every hand we see the fruits of the noble
pioneers of whom he was the chief leader,
hough there were many whose names
hould have prominence and be recalled in


connection with the settling of these now
beautiful and prosperous vales, Heber C;
Kimball, Wilford Woodruff, John Taylor
and others who cooperated with him in
making “the desert blossom as the rose.”
Generations may come and go but the
name of Brigham Young will never die
while these mountain fastnesses are in-
habited by the descendants of the people
who filled this “Happy Valley” with
homes of peace and plenty.
	The exercises of the day will commence
with a salute of forty-two guns by the
Veteran Artillery Association at 7 a. m.
The people will gather at the Bee Hive
house at 9 a. m., remaining there until
9.45, Held’s band will discourse sweet
music meantime.
	The monument of the great pioneer will
be the next place visited and will be dec-
orated then with flowers brought for the
purpose. The children of the city are
especially invited to do this, the Primary
Associations who always make a cusotm of
keeping in some festive fashion the first
day of June, will, it is ardently hoped,
come in full force having floral trophies, as
the fields, gardens and hills at the present
time abound with the beauties of nature.
	At 10 o’clock the program in the Taber-
nacle will commence and be rendered as
follows: Music, Held’s Military band.
Selection, Tabernacle choir. Invocation,
Hon Brigham Young. Selection, Taber-
nacle choir. Address, Governor Wells.
Music, Held’s Military band. Violin solo,
Morris S. Young. Address. Colonel David
McKenzie; Baritone solo, Horace S. En-
sign. Reading, Dr. Seymour B. Young.
Benediction, Hon Angus M. Cannon.
	Program at Saltair Beach which will be
given in the afternoon: Music, Christen-
sen’s Military band. Invocation, Dr.
George H. Brimhall. Solo, Miss Mary
Young. Address, Professor Joshua H.
Paul. Soprano solo (orchestra accom-
paniment) Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards.
Address, Hon. Thomas Fitch. Music,
Christensen’s band.
IN CHARACTER.
	Fancy dance, Miss La Blanche Snow.
Benediction, President W. J. Kerr.
	There will be a grand ball in the eve-
ning.
	Professor J. A. Anderson will be the ac-
companist in the musical features of the
program.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

OUR recent visit to the New England
hills, old scenes, associations, relatives,
and friends, will appear in the June num-
ber of the paper.

	The Primary Associations are to have a
Jubilee early in the month of June, which
is expected to. be quite a unique affair.
General-President Louie Felt and mem-
bers of her Board are making elaborate
preparatione and planning to have it repre-
sentative in every way of this association of
the children of Zion.

	All trains of the Oregon Short Line out
of Salt Lake City, start directly from this
city, and are consequently always on time.
You can depend upon them to the minute.
	This feature is the most satisfying one
in railway travel, and, in part, accounts
for the well deserved popularity of the
Short Line’s local passenger service.


GENERAL SOCIETY DAUGHTERS OF THE
REVOLUTION. 
		     NEW YORK CITY.

	The Annual Meetings of the General
Society of the Daughters of the Revolution,
held in New York City, Monday and
Tuesday, April 23rd and 24th, 1900, were
of an interesting character and well attended
by members from almost all parts of the
country, and the usual routine business of
such gatherings was transacted.
	A preliminary meeting was held jn the
Society’s headquarters, and a nominating
committee elected, to prepare a ticket, etc.
The public meetings convened in the same
building, situated on Fifth Avenue and
corner of 20th Street, a large and commo-
dious hall, handsomely decorated for the
occasion, with the stars and stripes taste-
fully draped and pictures of heroes and
heroines, etc. Each state was designated
by a banner with the name, and all dele-
gates were supplied with badges.
	The President General, Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow occupied the chair. She is a
very charming woman and has completely
won the hearts of all the Daughters who
have been associated with her during her
term of office. Her address was very bril-
lian and concise, dealing with facts in a
very gentle and persuasive manner, and
was specially significant of the work in
hand.
	The society moves as smoothly as the
sun and his satellites toward one common
object Loyalty and patriotic effort are al-
ways the general aim. Everywhere in
local chapters and State societies the gener-
al work has gone on with unity, strength
and enthusiasm of purpose. We have come
together to transact the most important
business in our societies life—to elect the
officers who are to carry on the work of the
organization for the two coming years. In
the fulfillment of this duty we are to per-
mit nothing of local or personal prejudice
and jealousy to influence us, and we are to
accept with the fullest loyalty the expres-
sion of the general will, whatever our in-
dividual disappointment may be.
	The Recording Secretary General in a
very gracious and appropriate speech
made the presentation of a “Loving Cup,”
the gift of the Society at large, which Mrs.
Snow responded to in a very brief but affec-
tionate and particularly happy manner.
	Reports from other General Officers fol-
lowed this part of the exercises, most of
them very brief, relating to each one’s own
department of work. We noted the His- 
torian General mentioned her report from
the Utah Historian, who looked after her
domestic affairs, managed her home, was a
member of the Legislature and had a baby
four months old; this elicited considerable
applause.
	These reports extended into the afternoon
and after they were finished the election of
officers began. There was considerable dis-
cussion upon the floor, meantime tellers
were appointed. Several nominations
were made, but finally the president Gener-
al was elected, Miss Adeline W. Sterling,
First Vice-President of the recent adminis-
tration.
	Tuesday morning the delegates were,
early in their seats and the election began.
There were several nominees for Vice-
President, but when it came to the Record-
ing Secretary General, eighteen candidates
were nominated before it was possible , to
get one to accept the office, as it is well


[Column 1]
known it is one of the most arduous posi-
tions in any organization. The Registrar
was re-elected by acclamation. She had
been a very efficient officer and was appar- 
ently a great favorite.
	The officers elected were: President
General, Miss Adeline W. Sterling, N. J.;
First Vice-President General, Mrs. Nathan-
iel S. Heap, Penn.; Second Vice-President-
General, Mrs. Mary A. Chapman, Mass;
Recording Secretary-General, Mrs. Carlton
M. Moody, Penn.; Corresponding Secretary-
General, Mrs. George B. Wallis, Jr., N. Y.,
Treasurer-General, Mrs. Joseph J. Casey,
N. Y.; Historian-General, Mrs. J. R.
Ditmars, N. J.; Librarian-General, Mrs.
Alexander M. Ferris, Mass.
BOARD OF MANAGERS.
	Mrs. James B. Grant, Colorado; Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow, L. I.; Mrs George F. Dan-
els, Mass.; Mrs. David C. Carr, N. Y.;
Mrs. George Hodges, N. J.; Miss Tar-
quinia L. Voss, Indiana; Mrs. Andrew W.
Bray, N. J.
	The time was so fully occupied with the
election that the reports from the several
states had to be read during the intervals
when the tellers were out counting votes.
Massachusetts came in with the largest
number of votes, being over seventy, and
naturally the report was excellent as re-
garded numbers and work, for besides a
State Society, Massachusetts has thirty-two
chapters, and they have historical ground
and many things in their favor, which those
at a remote distance do not enjoy. New
York ranks next in membership and has a
State society and sixteen chapters and have
been successful in many ways. New Jer-
sey and Pennsylvania come next in im- 
portance in the Society D. R’s. Utah,
though the youngest of the Daughters, pre-
sented a report that was specially well re-
ceived and was the only one that extended
an invitation to the General Society to come
and hold an Annual Meeting here sometime
in the near future. Nineteen States in all
were represented, most of the reports were
written and all were read by the Regent of
the State except Utah, which was read by
the delegate, Miss Snow, and two or three
reports that came by mail and were read
by the secretary.
	The election having been decided and the
announcements made, the Amendments to
the Constitution that had been sent out
previously were carefully considered,
some of them causing animated discussion,
and finally after a word of prayer and the
singing of “America,” the Convention ad-
journed after six p m., to meet in Brooklyn,
Long Island, in April, 1901.
D. R. ENTERTAINMENTS.
	Wednesday morning, April 25, at eleven
o’clock, the Daughters of the Revolution
were invited to be present at the unveiling
of a Historical Tablet to be given by the
New York State Society to the famous 
Old Dutch Reformed Collegiate Church, of
that city, Fifth Avenue and Forty-Eighth
Street. 
	The church is quite a handsome one in
its appointments and on this occasion there 
were perhaps two hundred of the D. R.
members assembled to witness the cere-
monies. The music was excellent, and the
tablet which was inscribed “In Memory of
the Officers, Soldiers and Sailors who felt in
the War of the Revolution,” was unveiled
by Miss Mary Gage Lambert of Rowley,
Mass., the youngest child of Jonathan

[Column 2]
Lambert, who when, sixteen years old,
took part in the battle of Bunker Hill.
Miss Lambert is now past eighty years of
age.
	The presentation address was made by
Mrs. Charles F. Roe, Regent of the New
York State D. R., and the wife of Major
General Roe. The tablet was received by
the minister of the Church, Rev. Mr. McKay,
who assured the ladies that it should be
sacredly kept in the archives of the Church.
	During his acknowledgement of the gift
he spoke of the denomination to which this
Church belongs, being the oldest in New
York, it having been founded in 1629 by
the Dutch settlers at Manhattan, and was
afterwards used for barracks in the time of
the Revolution. The present building is
erected on the same site as the original
church; he also stated that the bell which
now rings to call the people together is the
one hidden away in war time, and found by
the sexton when the war was over, and
used by the same sexton many years after-
wards.
	At one o’clock of the same day Mrs.
Henry Sanger Snow, the retiring President-
General of the General Society, gave an
elaborate breakfast at the Savoy Hotel to
both the retiring and incoming officers of
the D. R., and the Regents of the several
States represented at the Convention. The
banqueting hall was handsomely decorated,
the stars and stripes, as also the Society
colors, blue and buff, being effectively
used. The round table which seated fifty
guests was dazzlingly magnificent beyond
description. In the centre was an em-
bankment of green, literally piled with yel-
low lilies and blue corn flowers, and in
regular order around the circle were smaller
ones in circle and semicircle; elegant vases
of roses and carnations added to the artistic
decorations, and at each place a pretty silk
flag stood waving; but the bright appear-
ance of the brilliant women who surrounded
this unique “round table” was the most
pleasing picture of all, and one could not
help wondering why therewas not a photog-
rapher at hand, for it certainly would
have been a good opportunity, and, of
course, each guest would have purchased
a picture.
	During the breakfast Mrs. Snow, in a very
sweet and gracious manner, rose, and while
lifting the “Loving Cup,” which had been
previously brought in, turned to the new
President-General, Miss Sterling, saluting
her first, and then bowing to all seated at
the table, drank a toast to the assembled
guests in a few choice words of loving
tenderness, mentioning the fact that there
were represented nineteen states. The new
President-General also toasted her pre-
decessor in office and then the cup went
round, all the ladies tasting the old Moselle
wine from the new “Loving Cup.” After-
wards handsome little ornamental  favors
were given each guest, that were designated
by the ladies “Our little Juniors.”
	The breakfast was a perfect success, cer-
tainly these social functions bring women in
public life closer together in conversation
and acquaintance than is possible in Con-
gresses and Conventions.
	At three p. m. of the same afternoon the
New York State Society gave a reception to
the D. R. from all parts of the country in
the elegant parlors of the Waldorf-Astoria.
Mrs. Roe, State Regent, and her two
“Vices,” received from three to six p. m.,
in the most cordial and gracious manner;
about three hundred “Daughters” attended.

[Column 3]
	It is not possible to describe the dresses
(as the writer has been asked to do on
several occasions), but suffice to say, there
were many elderly daughters who were
quite as elaborately and as shiningly ar-
rayed, in costly apparel, wearing diamonds,
pearls and precious jewels, as the younger
portion of the D. R’s. There were also
others plainly dressed in simple costumes,
but no sort of distinction was apparent 
The elaborately dressed lady conversed with
those in plain attire and a general feeling
of good fellowship prevailed. The music
was of the highest order of excellence and
the delicate and delicious refreshments
were served in the daintiest style.
	Thursday morning two hundred or more
of the D. R.’s started on a trip up the Hud-
son by the West Shore R. R. to West Point.
All arrangements had been made before-
hand by a committee of New York State
and the General Society D. R., Mrs. Charles
W. Dayton, chairman. All the places of
interest were thrown open to the visitors,
the library and museum were the most at-
tractive places. After luncheon many of
the ladies were driven to interesting points
outside the college grounds. Col. Hein,
Commandant of Cadets, caused an exhibi-
tion of field artillery to be given in honor of
the ladies, and later on there was a grand
review of the corps of cadets. The day
was fine and the opportunity given the
ladies to visit and become acquainted with
each other was a source of pleasure and
gratification, as these busy women living
long distances apart, have many interests in
common, and to exchange ideas and com-
pare, is edifying and educational.
	Returning to New York on the evening
train, and in the boat when crossing the
Bay, there was opportunity for parting
messages and fervent farewells. The
writer had a most interesting conversation
with Miss Hunt, of Boston, on the return
trip. Miss M. Mabelle Snow, delegate 
from the Utah D. R., and Miss Abbie
Wells, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Junius F.
Wells, (a Salt Lake girl now sojourning in
New York,) were the youngest members of
the party.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Afternoon session, April 5, 1900, Presi-
dent Zina D. H. Young presiding. Meet-
ing opened  by singing the hymn
“Glorious things are sung of Zion,'
by the Young Ladies’ choir of the 20th
ward. Prayer by President Hammond, of
San Juan Stake. Singing, solo by Miss
Judith Anderson, “Flee as a Bird to to the
Mountain,” accompanied by Miss Lizzie
Thomas.
	The first speaker was Pres. M. A. Hakes
Maricopa Stake, she reported the society
throughout in good condition and the sis-
ters full of good works. “We live a long
way from headquarters, we have to travel
over two thousand miles to come to Con-
ference. In our place we have only one
hundred and thirty white people and six
hundred Lamanites. The government has
established a school for them and erected a
fine building. We have had one new
society organized since our last report, in
Pine Gila Co. We have many young
women who have joined our society. We
have to seal up our wheat in tin cans in
order to keep it. 
	Counselor Agnes Cutler, Jordan Stake,
eported the recent organization of that


[Column 1]
Stake and spoke of the good desires of the
officers that had been chosen.
President Annie U. Larson, Emery
Stake, made an excellent report. Said
they had made an effort in the society
to raise silk and encouraged the sisters to pay
tithing that the blessings promised might
follow.
President Kate L. Paxman, Juab Stake,
referred to President Mary Pitchforth’s
having resigned on account of her delicate
health, and yet they wanted to enjoy her
counsel and her presence in the meetings.
Intended to persevere in her duties in the
position she had been called to fill.
Miss Lillie Pye rendered a solo, “I have
Seen the Beautiful City.”
President Sarah Jenne Cannon: “Dear
sisters, I am thankful to be here today.
The prophet Joseph builded better than he
knew when he organized this society with
nineteen members and now it numbers
thirty thousand. We are doing a great
work, the world are also doing a genealogi-
cal work and do not know why. We are
laboring intelligently, each branch of the
Relief Society should be visited and in-
structed. We should reach the far away
branches, they are the ones who need it
most. We should patronize the Exponent
and have it in every society, and in every
family, if possible. I am very thankful to
the dear young girls who have been sing-
ing for us, and hope they will be blest.
We need the young women in our society,
there is such a big field to work in. We
should all do our share, and not depend on
our neighbors but on ourselves.”
President Emily G. Cluff, Josepa, re-
ported the Sandwich Island settlement.
Said they would like to plant some grain
this year and raise some wheat to store up.
Last year they planted a melon patch and
realized one hundred dollars from their
melons.
Sister Margaret Moody Clift, of St.
George, spoke earnestly of the society in
that Stake, of the large number of branches
and the wheat stored and the excellent
granary owned by the sisters.
One of the late President Layton’s daugh-
ters, Selina L. Phillips, spoke feelingly of
the work and of the dear faces of the sisters
in the conference she remembered when a
child. The leading sisters from head-
quarters had never visited St. Joseph Stake,
she had lived there thirteen years and
would like to see some of them come there;
it would be a great pleasure to the sisters
who need instruction and counsel.
Sister Julina L. Smith spoke upon the or
ganization of the Relief Society by the
Prophet Joseph, and that he gave the first
money towards creating a fund, five dollars.
Others present gave something, the Prophet
also gave a house and lot, and had the
house repaired so it might be used for the
poor who were homeless. She also men-
tioned the ten cent donation expected from
all the Stakes of Zion, and added that she
believed it would be a blessing, as the lead-
ing sisters could then visit the different
Stakes and comfort those who needed ad-
vice and encouragement. Spoke of how
the Lord sustained the aged sisters who
had labored so faithfully for Zion. 
President Zina D. H. Young: “We
need just about a week to bless and help
our sisters in these meetings. We are en-
gaged in the great work of salvation. The
mothers when bearing their children should
seek to have them infused with love and
the Holy Spirit. We want the blessing of

[Column 2]
God with us, He is just as willing to hear
the prayers of the sisters as the brethren.
My prayers ascend for you all in the night
time. Never allow yourselves to speak
against the priesthood of God, those who do
cannot prosper, they will fall away or turn
aside, I have seen it come to pass many
times in the last sixty-five years. Let us
sanctify our bodies, make them fit temples
for the Holy Ghost to dwell in, that we
may enjoy the fulness of all things the
Lord has to bestow upon the faithful. May
we each go home from here with the good
spirit we have found here and prove faithful
unto the end, and until we shall see the
face of our Father in heaven.
Counselor Mary P. Young, Granite
Stake, spoke of the way in which the
officers were visiting in that new Stake
from place to place, said she already began
to feel acquainted with the people. Alluded
to the Prophet Joseph saying the society
was to help put down iniquity and correct
the morals of society. Prayed the
Lord would inspire the younger women to
come forward and help in this work.
Counselor A. L. Cox, of Sanpete Stake,
said they were striving to live their reli-
gion. Felt it was good to keep the 17th
of March and pay the ten cent donation, it
was a historic day and should be ob-
served, it is desirable to review the past
labors of the society. She always urged
the sisters to take the Exponent, and after
what had been said today she hoped there
would be an increased subscription. “Last
year there was a disadvantage in saving
wheat, but we hope to do more this year.
The Lord has greatly blessed us in our
labors and we have a very good president in
Sister Mary Ann Hyde, and she has been
appreciated.
E. B. WELLS Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY MEETING AND DEDICA-
TION.
	The members of the Freedonia Relief
Society met on the 17th of March to cele-
brate the fifty-third anniversary of the first
organization of the Relief Society and to
dedicate the hall which they have just
finished for the use of the Freedonia Relief
Society.
	Services commenced at 12 noon, Bishop
D. B Stewart presiding. Meeeting opened
by the choir singing, “Come dearest Ford
descend and dwell.” Dedicatory prayer by
Bishop D. R. Stewart. Singing, “This
house we dedicate to Thee.” Opening
remarks by Bishop A. A. W. Brown, sub-
ject, the benefit the Relief Society is and
can be List of amounts donated was
then read by Bishop D. R. Stewart. Presi-
dent Thomas Chamberlain, of the Kanab
Stake, then offered the dedicatory prayer.
Singing, “The star of victory.” Remarks
were made by Second Counselor Elizabeth
Pugh, of the Stake presidency.
	Speeches were then in order by the
visiting sisters. President Chamberlain
made some excellent remarks. Singing,
“O, be joyful in the Lord.” Benediction
by A. W. Judd.
	Our society was organized February 27,
1893, with fifteen members. They were
Emma S. Brown, president; Rose Cooper,
first counselor; Caroline Foremaster,
second counselor; Frances Crosby, secre-
tary and treasurer, The sisters have been
greatly blessed and our members increased
to thirty-four, members all alive to their
duties.


Since the first organization Sister Cooper
has moved away, also Sister Crosby. Sis-
ter Bethuna Hart has been put in Sister
Cooper’s place, and Sister Gedska Henrie
in Sister Crosby’s, Eva Hart, treasurer.
	I thought a few lines from this out of
the way place would be of interest and
encourage others. Where there is unity
there is strength. Those that help them-
selves, the Lord will help.
						E. S.


R. S. REPORTS
CASTLE DALE.
	March 17, was a day of great rejoicing
to the sisters of Castle Dale, as we had the
pleasure of having with us Professor
B. Cluff, of the B. Y. Academy, Stake
President Miller and Bishop Jensen of our
ward. Professor Cluff gave some excel-
lent instructions in regard to teaching
children and duties devolving upon the
sisters in general. President Miller spoke
very encouragingly to the sisters of the
Relief Society. Bishop Jensen also made
a few good remarks.
	This being the annual day a short program
was prepared and rendered on this occasion.
After the program refreshments were
served. Everybody felt highly en-
couraged and went home rejoicing.
	Castle Dale Relief Society is in good
condition and the sisters enjoy the com-
panionship of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Yours truly,
		KAROLINE A. LARSEN, Pres.
		KATHINKA ANDERSON, Sec.
REORGANIZATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Hearing from President Virginia F.
Major that she was going to give in her
resignation at the meeting to be held on
Thursday, May 3, I took the morning train
for that place, having a strong desire to be
present at the meeting. The cause of her
resignation was that her husband and fam-
ily were about to move to Thatcher, Arizona.
	Many and sincere were the good wishes
expressed, that they might be blest and
prospered in building up for themselves a
new home. My heart was rendered sad
at thought of her going from our Stake, for
I had truly learned to love her sweet and
congenial spirit, and had ever found her
faithful and energetic in the discharge of
every known duty, leaving the affairs of the
society in good condition.
	The bishopric of the ward were present
at the meeting, each one of them speaking
in the highest terms of praise and com-
mendation of the retiring president and her
family.
	Sister Majors said she would like the
privilege of seeing the next presiding
officer elected. So Bishop Layton put be-
fore the meeting the name of Sister Emma
Corbridge as president of the society. She
was unanimously sustained in that position.
She selected as her counselors Sister Mary
Ann Egbert and Sister Rose W. Layton,
who were also unanimously sustained.
	After remarks by the newly elected
officers, they were blest and set apart under
the hands of the Bishop and his counselors.
	Sister Olive S. Corbridge is their very
able secretary, so that I feel satisfied that
the society of West Layton Ward in the
Davis Stake of Zion is still in the best
of working order. And may the blessings
of union, love and prosperity attend them,


[Column 1]
and not only them, but all who are engaged
in Relief Society work. 
SUSAN GRANT, Stake President.

	STERLING, ALBERTA, CANADA.

	On Saturday, March 17, the ladies of the
Sterling Relief Society, under the able super–
vision of the president, Hannah M. Russel,
gave a most delightful banquet to the mem–
bers of the ward.
	The people assembled at eleven o'clock
and the following progrm was carried out:
	Congregational singing, "Joseph Smith's
First Prayer." Prayer, Brother Samuel
Fawcett. Singing, "O, my Father."
Report of the first Relief Society meeting held
in Sterling and report of the first Relief
Society meeting of the organization, Sister
Zilla Grant.
	Remarks, Sister Hannah Russel.
	Remarks by Bishop Theodore Brandly.
	Singing, "Come, come ye Saints."
	At 12 o'clock the older members of the
ward, numbering about eighty, were seated
at the tables which were spread with a 
sumptuous feast. Bishop Brandley offered
thanks. When the older ones had finished
the young people sat down and were feasted
to their heart's content. During this time
the older members indulged in social con-
versation.
	After a general clearing up there was
another song, "Now let us rejoice."
	Sketch of the life of Eliza R. Snow,
Mary E. Hardy. Song, James Kirk.
	Dancing was then begun, during which
the following exercises were rendered:
	Song, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Tillock.
Song, Mrs. Augusta Larsen. Remarks,
Brother F. D. Grant.
	At 6 o'clock there was an intermission
during which refreshments were passed. A
large ornamented fruit cake was cut, and
each one present was treated to a piece.
	At seven dancing again commenced and
during the evening the following program
was carried out:
	Song, A. M. Faddis.
	Henry Schutt was called upon for a song,
but being no singer, Brother Schutt, assisted
by those present, played a new game, called
"Sterling."
	Song, Misses and Messrs. Clark.
	Benediction by William B. Hardy.
	All expressed themselves as having passed
a delightful day, and much praise is due
the members of the Relief Society and
those who assisted.
							E. V. H.
	NOTTINGHAM, ENGLAND.
	The sisters of Nottingham met on
Monday evening, March 19. at the home of
President A. M. Henson, to celebrate the
anniversary of the Relief Society. Several
of the Elders from Utah were present, also
local Elders.
	Meeting commenced at 8 p. m. by sing-
ing "How firm a foundation." Prayer was
offered by President Geo. Ruff. Continued
with singing, "O, my Father." The roll
was then called.
	Sister Henson said we all knew the rea-
son for meeting together this evening, and
hoped all would respond to the call made
upon them, and by so doing we would have
the Holy Spirit in our midst.
	Elder L. Sanford first addressed the
meeting. Said he felt it an honor to have
the privilege of attending Relief Soclety 
meetings, as it was a noble work, and the
Lord would bless and prosper the sisters if
they continued in well doing.

[Column 2]
	Sister Edith Cable then favored us with
the song, "Time may Steal the Roses."
	Sister Polly Simons gave a recitation,
"She Is Dead." Sister Bessie Cable also
favored us with a song entitled "Sing Me
an English Song."
	Elder C. F. Campbell then addressed the
meeting for a short time. Said he could
see the good the sisters were doing, and
while not missionaries from a far-off land,
were doing quite as good a work among
the poor and needy.
	Brother H. Taylor and Sister L. Taylor
favored us with a duet, "She Wore a
Wreath of Roses," Sister Lucy Green then
gave a reading, "A Marvelous Healing,"
and Sister A. M. Henson favored us with
the song, "Belle Mahone's Reply."
	Sister E. Taylor gave a short speech and
hoped always to remain firm and steadfast
in the cause of truth.
Brother Henson then sang, "Under a
Spreading Chestnut Tree," after which
Counselor H. Keeling spoke a short time.
Said she knew the work in which we were
engaged was the work of God, and hoped
to always remain faithful to the same.
	Elder Richards was then asked to address
the Saints. He said it was the first time he
had the privilege of attending a Relief
Society meeting, and could see they were
engaged in a good, honorable work, and
hoped the Lord would continue to bless
them and pour down at all times His Holy
Spirit, that they might indeed be blest.
	An interval of about half an hour was
then allowed for refreshments, which all
heartily enjoyed.
	President Geo. Ruff then spoke to us.
Said he remembered the last time we met
to celebrate the same occasion, the enjoy-
able time we had, that it would be impos-
sible to forget the kindness he had received
at the hands of the sisters. He was al-
ways pleased at the unity that existed in
the Relief Society and hoped we would re-
main united, for great things can be accom-
plished when a band of sisters were united.
Hoped the Lord would continue to bless us
and be with us in all our undertakings.
	The meeting was then closed by singing
the hymn, "From all that dwell below the
skies. Benediction by Elder C. F. Camp-
bell.
	The report of the Relief Society since last
March is as follows: Members enrolled,
eighteen; average attendance, seven; meet-
ings held, twenty-five; houses visited by
the teachers, thirty; money paid into the
relief fund, £2 5s 3d; paid to the sick and
poor, £2, .0s 2 1/2d.
					EDITH CABLE, SEC.

			OFFICERS.

	Sister Annie M. Henson, president; Sister
Elizabeth Cable, first counselor; Sister Har-
riet Keeling, second counselor; Lucy Green,
treasurer; teachers in No. 1 district, Sisters
Bessie and Edith Cable; No. 2 district, Sis-
ters E. Taylor and Lucy Green.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Sister Mary Henrietta Meecham Batty was born
April 10, 1848, near Kanesville, Iowa, and died in
Wallsburg, Wasatch Co., Utah, Dec. 21. 1899.
She was the daughter of Ephraim and Patty D.
Meecham.
	Whereas, Our Eternal Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to call from this stage of ac-
tion, our beloved president, Mary H. Batty, be it
	Resolved, That as members of the Relief Society


we will strive to follow her good examples and
teachings.
	Resolved, That we remember that we have
never heard her speak evil of any one, but always
had a sympathetic, kind word for all.
	Resolved, That we remember through all her
sufferings she was never known to complain, but
bore her sickness with fortitude and patience and
with gratitude to all who lent a hand for her com-
fort. She died as she had lived, a faithful sister,
a noble mother and a true, loving friend to all.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication, one
be put on the records of the Wallsburg Relief
Society and one be given to the sorrowing family,
to whom we would say be comforted, for with
mother all is well.
	She has left this world of sorrow,
		To join the Saints above,
	It was rest to her weary heart,
		She now dwells in peace and love.
					ESTHER DABLING,
					JENNIE ALBRED,
					ALICE COOK,
							    Committee.
SISTER ROSINA HILLIER NOALL.
	Sister Rosina Hillier Noall was born at Mont-
pelier, Idaho, March, 1872.
	She was the daughter of Leo C. and Annie
Hillier. The deceased was an accomplished young
lady and filled many important positions in the
Bear Lake Stake, being an aid in the Primary
Association of the Stake, Church organist and
president of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the ward in
which she resided. By profession she was a
school teacher, in which calling she was very suc-
cessful.
	In April, 1899, Sister Hillier was married to
Matthew Noall, who by death had been bereaved
of his former wife. Through her loving disposi-
tion she endeared herseif to the hearts of the little
ones.
	Sister Noall departed this life March 23, 1900.
She lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint and
leaves a husband, infant daughter and a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has deemed it best to call unto Himself our
beloved sister, and
	Whereas, She proved he[-]self an efficient worker
as aid in the Primary Association of the Bear
Lake Stake until her recent removal to Salt Lake
City, and was one whose kindness and generosity
of spirit brought sunshine to many hearts.
	Resolved, That we realize that God calls from
our midst our esteemed associates and friends; that
He doeth all things for the best and we must be-
resigned to His holy will.
	Resolved, That we, her co-laborers, extend to
her family our heartfelt sympathy in their bereave-
ment.
			ANNIE LAKER, President.
			ELIZA DALRYMPLE 1st Counselor.
			MARY J. RICH, 2nd Counselor.


ONEIDA STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Oneida
Stake, held April 19, 1900, in the Preston
meeting house, President Elizabeth Fox
presiding, commenced by singing “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer 
by President George C. Parkinson. Sing-
ing, “O, say what is truth.”
	Officers present on the stand were Presi-
dent Elizabeth Fox, Counselors Mary
Hawks and Delilah E. Dudley; of the
General officers, Zina D. H. Young, and
Jane S. Richards; Zina Young Card and
Emily S. Richards, also President Geo. C.
Parkinson and counselors, of the Oneida
Stake.
	President Elizabeth Fox was gratified to
see so many present also wished to give
all the time possible to our visiting sisters.
	Roll called, showing eleven wards repre-
sented out of fourteen.
	Annie Challis, of Franklin; Phebe
McNeil, of Fairview; Elizabeth Clark, of
Weston and Sarah Callan, of Dayton, re-


[Column 1]
ported their respective wards as diligent
and willing to respond to every call.
	Sister Dora Geddes then beautifully
rendered the hymn, “I know that my
Redeemer lives.”
	Sister Zina Y. Card read, by request of
President Zina D. H. Young, a piece from
the EXPONENT, extracts from the minutes
of the first organization by Joseph Smith
the Prophet.
	President Zina D. H. Young felt weak.
These meetings brought to her mind the
days and sayings of the Prophet
Joseph when he turned the key of knowl-
edge for woman. “Plant good ideas into
the minds of the children, they notice our
example, they are glorious spirits the Lord
has entrusted to our care.” She had al-
ways listened attentively when the prophet
addressed the Saints. She had no hard
feelings against anybody. Prayed the Lord
to bless the land of Missouri. The day
will come when we will occupy it again.
“May the Lord help us to love each other.”
	President Jane S. Richards felt she could
say nothing this morning, wanted to be
directed by the right spirit. We should
treasure up all we have heard from Aunt
Zina. She was not familiar with the
Prophet, but had heard him address the
Saints many times. She said nothing but
sickness would keep her from her meetings.
Felt thankful for being permitted to belong
to the first Relief Society. She wished to
conform to every true principle and be
willing whenever called upon. Said we
have to attend to temporal as well as spirit-
ual duties. “May the Lord direct you in
all things.”
	President George C. Parkinson made a
few remarks. Could feel a beautiful in-
fluence here today, did not wish to take
from our minds what we had heard.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, ‘Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah.” Benediction, S. W. Hale.
	2 p. m. The choir sang “Lord make
Thy name known.” Prayer by Joseph
Geddes. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.”
	The financial and statistical report of the
Stake was read and approved; also the
treasurer’s report accepted.
	Julia Roper, of Preston; L. B. Benson, of
Whitney; Ingred Graham, of Mink Creek
reported their wards as active, working
satisfactorily in helping every good cause.
	Sister Emily S. Richards remembered the
advice of her mother, to be obedient to the
priesthood, and said love one another, do
not speak evil of any one. Train our chil-
dren to respect their parents, educate our
daughters that they may be prepared to do
the work the Lord intends them to do.
We should strive to be loyal to all.
	Singing, by Sister Cutler, of Preston.
	Counselor D. E. Dudley was thankful to
meet with our aged sisters who are with us
today. Considered it a privilege to hear
their instructions and testified of the truth
of their remarks.
	President Elizabeth Fox felt thankful in
hearing our sisters who are visiting with

[Column 2]
us. “I trust we may remember their good
counsel, that it may be a benefit to us.
Gave a brief report of the Stake, had visited
all the wards during the year with the ex-
ception of Baker City, in Oregon, and the
newly organized branch at Swan Lake.
Was well pleased with the reports in hear-
ing of granaries and meetiug houses being
put up for the benefit of these organizations.
Having labored for many years in the Re-
lief Society this Stake, owing to the
condition of her health she wished to be
released from the responsibilities of the
work, if all were willing. “May the
blessings of God be with us all.”
	President George C. Parkinson gave an
account of the labors of Sister Fox in con-
nection with him, in their travels through
the Stake. Felt she had endeared herself
to the sisters in her visits among them, but
she can continue her labors among them, as
she would be sustained as an honorary
president.
	It was then proposed that Sister Fox be
allowed to retire from the hard work of the
presidency. A few hands reluctantly went
up.
	Sister Jane S. Richards further explain-
ing said: “It is not because Sister Fox is
tired of the work, but because her bodily
health will not permit.” She wished to be
released on that account. Was pleased to
see the affection shown to Sister Fox.
	President G. C. Parkinson gave a vote of
thanks to Sister Fox and her aids.
	Sister L. B. Benson was then chosen to
succeed Sister Fox as President of the
Oneida Stake.
	Sister Benson said she realized that obe-
dience was the first law of heaven. Was
willing to do what was required of her.
	The vote was unanimous.
	Zina Y. Card explained the routine of
Relief Society work. Said to be careful in
keeping our records properly.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke a few
words in tongues, interpretation by Zina Y.
Card.
	Sister Fox felt to be obedient to those
placed over us, was thankful for the good
will expressed by her sisters.
	President Jane S. Richards mentioned our
observing the 17th of March and the 10ct.
fund, it would be proper to forward the
means together and get your proper credit
and receipt. Was delighted to have the
brethren with us and thankful for their
presence. Asked God’s blessings on all.
	Sister Fox exhorted all to do their whole
duty.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by S. H. Hale.
				ANNIE HATCH, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.,
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.	TRY US.

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St. 
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . . . . 6 40 p.m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5	The “Fast Mall” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 00 p.m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St. 
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. . . . . 3 00 p.m.
No. 3	The “Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 30 p.m.

CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
						H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . . .
OREGON SHORT LINE
RAILROAD.
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
	Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . . . .

See that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
		And Get the best.

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
S. W. ECCLES,			D. E. BURLEY,
	Gen’l Tfc. Mgr.				G. P. & T. A

