Vol. 28.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15 to 24, 1899.		No. 14.


CONTENTS.
Christmas Fancies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The Editor	81.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting . . J. S. Woolley	82.
Mrs. Barratt’s Party . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E. B. W.	83.
A Pleasant Birthday Gathering. . . . . . . E. B. W.	83.
Boston Tea Party. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E. B. W.	83.
Heroines of the Revolution . . . Helen M. Fisher	86.
From A Mother’s Standpoint . . . . . . . . . Rachel	86.
Thanksgiving Day. . . . . . . . . . Delila E. Dudley	87.
U. W. P. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Aimee C. Schiller	88.
EDITORIAL—In Memoriam—Franklin D. Rich-
	ards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	84.
	Emily Dow Partridge Young . . . . . . . . . . .	85.
	Editorial Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	83.
POETRY—Queen Victoria . . . . Lydia D. Alder	81.


QUEEN VICTORIA

	Receiving the Quinquennial Congress.
A hush falls on the assembled throng,
	As expectant on the Queen we wait;
Some of all nations there among,
	Standing close by storied Windsor’s gate.
“Enter,” now the welcome word is said—
	Through we pass, Her Majesty to see,
Pressing on with rapid, eager tread,
	Yet with woman’s grand nobility.

“God save the Queen,” wafts low on the air,
	Sung by her guests, she bows low to meet;
And God bless the one, with face so fair,
	The ocean’s broad path we’ve crossed to greet.
A woman so true, although a queen,
	Who feels for woman the wide world o’er;
Bearing a noble, yet gentle mien—
	A Queen we honor and bow before.

’Twined the mother-love, with high estate,
	That holy love, so soft, strong and true;
And a love that comes to those who wait,
	The Valley of Death to enter through.
So England’s Queen, great among the great,
	In history is famed forever more;
Chosen by God and the hand of Fate,
	Ordained in the world that was before,

As a river, blessings flow to thee,
	High Potentate of earthly power;
Yet nobler made by sweet simplicity,
	And greater still from this very hour.
America! send thy greetings o’er 
	For honored thy daughters are today;
So extend thy strength from shore to shore,
	Unto her, who half the world doth sway.

England! o’er thy bounds scarce sets the sun,
	A nation revered by all the world;
Renowned since the reign of man begun,
	Where’er a proud nation’s flag’s unfurled.
From thee we sail to each distant land,
	To speak of thy grandeur, thy glory, 
And o’er the world by gentle winds fann’d,
	Of the Queen will be told this story.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
London, July 7, 1899.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS FANCIES.
Peace and good will to all mankind.
	Blessed Christmas if indeed it would
bring peace and good-will to all mankind.
Nowadays the Christmas time seems more
of a festivity and giving and receiving
gifts, than a time to exercise good will and
good feeling toward one’s neighbors; to
forgive wrongs and make peace with those
with whom we have been at variance, if
there are any such, would indeed make the
day a happy one. Cheerfulness is better
than hilarity, and simplicity even in giv-
ing is in much better taste than making
elaborate presents, or parading one’s

[Column 2]
generosity, as really seems to have come
to be the custom in this age. We deal
largely in extremes, even in giving, and
we do not always deal wisely with our-
selves or our friends. “Kind hearts are
more than coronets,” and the scripture
tells us, “a word fitly spoken is like apples
of gold in pictures of silver.” Therefore,
though we have not wealth to lavish on
our loved ones, we can bestow kindness
even in words.
	As a people we are in the enjoyment of
many blessings, and we have great reason
to rejoice that prosperity abounds in these
vales of the mountains and that we have
peace here, though we read and hear of
wars in other lands; and we should not for-
get the Lord in the days of our prosperity.
	Feasting and enjoying the good things
of life does not make up the sum of happi-
ness, not even at Christmas time; elabor-
ate preparations are very wearisome, and
the mother is often too much exhausted to
share in the children’s enjoyment of games
or sports, or perhaps to answer their ques-
tions about the why’s and wherefore’s of
Christmas. The injunction placed upon
us all to take care of our bodies, is greatly
disregarded at holiday times, or overdone,
we work so hard for the pleasure of a few
hours, we cook so much and some of us
eat so much that we are not happy and we
show it in our faces, therefore we are not
beautiful, though we may have bestowed
abundant pains upon our decorations to
make the home beautiful. If the mother
is care-worn or exhausted, if she cannot
wear a smiling face, then the day is not a
success. It is not necessary to have all
the luxuries the market affords, not even
on Christmas, to bring happiness; light
hearts, cheerful faces and kind words are
a far better relish at the family dinner
than the most savory dish lacking these
graces. Yet one does not like to be always
sermonizing. There are many pretty 
fancies about Christmas that have come
down to us, that set it off, so to speak, as
a day apart from all others, in the minds
of the little folks at least; and perhaps
none of us are altogether without a taste
for the mystic, and the legends and folk-
lore of ye olden time and of other lands
and other people, their habits, customs
and beliefs, have a more intense interest
because of their remoteness and the mys-
tery in which they are necessarily en-
shrouded.
	From the early Christians who sang the
midnight mass on the eve of the nativity,
in commemoration of the birth of Christ,
we get the name Christmas (Christ’s mass.)
Formerly immense logs were brought from
the forests and, often with much ceremony,
burned at Christmas time with great re-
joicing. Although we do not hear of the
yule log these days, yet a great log is
chosen even now where wood is used for
fuel; we who use coal do not have the
same feeling about the Xmas log. The
pictures in the fire on Christmas were con-
sidered significant, and the old wrongs
were thought to die out in the blaze.
Numberless superstitions that cluster

[Column 3]
around Christmas observances in the olden
time, are interwoven with Pagan and some
of them even early Christian ceremonies.
	It is said that “in Sweden on Christmas
Eve the shoes of the family are placed in
a row side by side, that harmony may pre-
vail during the year to come.” 
	“Throughout Northern Germany the
tables are spread and the lights left burn-
ing, that the Virgin Mary and the angel 
who brings the presents may find refresh-
ments.”
	This to us seems very absurd, but if in
our day the children thought more of the
mother or father, sister, brother or friend,
who gives on these occasions, and paid
them the reverence which is their due, the
spirit of jealousy and contention would
cease, and greater reverence might be ac-
corded to those who are really the good
angels in disguise.
	Even to this day it is a belief in Corn-
wall, Devonshire, and in English villages,
that the bees hum and that the cattle kneel
on Christmas Eve in adoration of the
Holy Child; and it is said the powers of
darkness are unable to work evil on man-
kind. Shakespeare, who is more often
quoted than any other poet, says:

“Some say that ever ’gainst that season comes
Wherein our Savior’s birth is celebrated,
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
And then, they say, no spirit can walk abroad;
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
So hallowed and so precious is the time.”

	The customs connected with the chil-
dren’s idea of Christmas have their origin
in Germany and the Netherlands. Our
little ones imitate the child of Holland
when they hang their stockings in front of 
the fireplace, so Santa Claus will find
them when he descends the chimney. The
beautiful Christmas tree, its branches
laden and lights sparkling, a sine que non,
with children nowadays is distinctly a
heathen idea perpetuated by the German
and Scandinavian races. The floral deco-
rations, which add so much to the beauty
of the festival, were inaugurated in the
days of the Saturnalia when the Roman
temples and houses were decorated with
flowers and garlands in honor of the god
of light. In the days of early antiquity
the British Druids reverenced the mistletoe
as something holy, when they found it
growing on an oak, the favorite tree of 
their divinity, Tutanes, the sun. When
they celebrated the winter solstice the
ancient Britons, accompanied by Druids,
went with music and singing to gather the
sacred mistletoe, and it was believed to
have a healing power. Clothed in white
the chief priest cut the tree with a golden
knife and the mistletoe (a sort of parasite)
would fall into the robe of the priest stand-
ing below, who distributed it among the
people, who carried it home and hung it
under the roof as a protection and shelter
to the sylvan deities during the winter
frost and cold. The Druids regarded the
pearly berries of the plant as an emblem
of purity and used it in the marriage rite.
The mistletoe custom still observed of
snatching a kiss under the mistletoe is


[Column 1]
associated with the mystic traditions, and
is a relic of the days of Druidism. The old
song we used to sing says:
	“The mistleto hung in the castle hall,
	The holy branch shone on the old oak wall,
	And all the tenants were blithe and gay,
	Keeping their Christmas holiday.”
	Holly, evergreen and laurel were used
to decorate the churches in early days in
England, as they are now. Ivy, though
sometimes used, is considered more appro-
priate for solemn occasions. Late in the
17th century the Ecclesiastical Canon of
England issued a decree that all Christ-
mas decorations must be down by the last
of January, as it was thought to be un-
lucky to keep them up longer in private
houses.
	At the time when the Druids were gath-
ering their mistletoe and the Romans were
decorating their temples in honor of Sat-
urn, the Scandinavians kindled huge bon-
fires in honor of the sun god, Thor.
	The good cheer of old England at
Christmas time is proverbial, and little
wonder when one reads of the feasting.
The peacock with his gorgeous train was
a royal dish brought to the festal board by
some fair lady, and over him the knights
errant swore to do or die for their “ladyes
fayre.” From this custom comes Justice
Swallow’s oath, “By cock and pie.” In
Charles II. time turkeys and capons with
plum pudding became the regular dish,
and the mince pie still perpetuated, was a
special requisite at a Xmas dinner more
than a hundred years ago.
	The Newcastle Chronicle of 1770 gives the
contents of the famous “Christmas pye”
of the olden time. * * * Its ingredients
were 2 bushels of flour, 20 pounds of
butter, 4 geese, 2 turkeys, 2 rabbits, 4 wild
ducks, 2 woodcocks, 6 snipe, 4 partridges,
2 neats tongues, 2 curlews, 4 blackbirds
and six pigeons, with eggs, sugar, raisins,
lemons, oranges and various kinds of
spicery. “it weighed twelve stone.” One
would wonder where it could be baked;
and yet when one knows what great fire-
places and ovens they had in those old
halls and castles, one might imagine that
even such a pie could be put in and baked.
In the lower part of the Nottingham
Castle, which, by the by, is about all that
is left of it, we saw the largest ovens, just
like a great arch, one on each side of a
huge fireplace. Of course they are not
in very good preservation, but are still
standing; and at Kenilworth Castle we
counted the remains of nine or ten im-
mense fireplaces, in one area of the ruin,
doubtless there had been ovens there
to correspond with the size of the fire-
places. When one recalls the number of
the inmates of these great buildings and
the retainers, and that there were no bake
shops adjacent to buy food from, and
everything must be made on the premises,
one can fancy great quantities of food
cooked somewhere.
	The writer when standing in St. George’s
Hall, Windsor Castle, thought of the great
banquets that had been given there to the
English warriors, and also when the brave
heroes and men were initiated into the
order of the Knights of the Garter; what
eating, drinking and carousing must have
taken place, and what wonderful prepara-
tions in the way of cooking must have pre-
ceded these great occasions. At the pres-
ent time one can buy almost everything
ready cooked, and the facilities for prepar-

[Column 2]
ing food are altogether easier than they
were even fifty years ago. 
	Christmas in England this year cannot
be a very merrie one, judging from the
dispatches of the war in South Africa, and
although Queen Victoria is very heroic,
yet so many of Her Majesty’s officers have
been slain or wounded, that conditions
must necessarily have a depressing effect
upon the whole country. The Queen will
have the sympathy of all true Americans
in this time of anxiety, for she is justly
beloved by the people of the United States.
It is to be hoped that matters may be so
adjusted as to bring this cruel war to a
close; and now that the court of arbitration
is so near being established the outlook for
a final compact seems more likely to be
consummated.
	How ardently one wishes for the day
when war shall cease, and the angelic in-
junction, “On earth peace, good will to-
ward men,” find a hearty response from
all nations. The “Yule peace,” old as the
Runic stones of antiquity, a time of good
fellowship and brotherly love, quarrels all
healed, feuds forgotten, and the world ani-
mated by the universal spirit of love. Is
this too much to hope for? At any rate,
each one who strives to love his neighbor
as himself is doing his utmost to fufill the
law.  Our blessed Savior said:
	Love your enemies, do good to them which hate
you.
	Bless them that curse you, and pray for them
that despitefully use you and persecute you.
	How few there are who heed these
words in the least, yet desire to keep the
commandments and excel in many ways.
Jesus in His “Sermon on the Mount” said:
“Blessed are the peacemakers, for they
shall be called the children of God.” And
what more fitting time to strive to culti-
vate this in one’s heart than the day on
which we celebrate the nativity of the
Savior of the world?
	Many mothers and housewives are like
Martha, whom the Savior rebuked, they
work and worry and fret, over-burdened,
over-solicitous, “troubled about many
things.” It would be so much better if
there were less cooking, less variety, and
if mothers were not so weary and could
get a little more real enjoyment at Christ-
mas time.
	“At Christmas play and make good cheer,
	For Christmas comes but once a year.”
						THE EDITOR


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Semi Monthly Meeting convened
November 11, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Opened with singing, “Our God we raise
to Thee.” Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wil-
cox. Singing. “Welcome best of all good
meetings. Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	President Horne said she was fed by
hearing the sisters speak, and she wished
to hear all bear testimony. President Snow
said he loved to hear the people speak of
the Spirit, the eloquence of speech was not
what we were seeking.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said she loved
to look at her sisters. Knew all could find
plenty to do at home, but knew it was
proper for us to meet together. We should
learn to overcome, which we can by the
word of our testimony and the power of the

[Column 2]
anointing. Felt thankful to associate with
God’s anointed. Any one who has a testi-
mony of this Gospel never ought to think
they have any sorrows.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said she
had been to visit Lehi with Sister Zina D.
H. Young, and they had a time of rejoicing
together. Said that Sister Zina had spoken
in each meeting. They visited the sugar
factory. She felt that God had blessed us
as a people and provided us with every
comfort.
	Sister Smith said she knew we needed
our spirits fed and were all benefited by
meeting together.
	Sister Hunter, president of Tooele Stake
Relief Society, being present, spoke. Her
desire was to help build up the kingdom.
Spoke of the necessity of teaching our girls
and boys the principles of the Gospel. Felt
that our trials were of great benefit to us,
and exhorted all to pray to the Lord and
thank Him for our comforts and blessings.
Said in her Stake the society was doing
good and that the Lord blessed them.
	Sister Tomlinson spoke of the blessings
she had received in the Temple. Believed
the Lord would hear the mother’s prayer
when she asked His aid in raising her chil-
dren.
	Sister Amelia Wardrop said she had al-
ways believed in the law of tithing and the
word of wisdom. She had a testimony of
the truth of the Gospel to bear.
	Sister Stevenson said she had not missed
five meetings in thirteen years.
	A sister in the congregation said she had
been blessed many times by coming to these
meetings. She always found it easier to do
her work at home if she attended to her
meetings. Another sister said she knew
that in attending to her meetings she al-
ways gained time in performing her house-
hold duties. She knew if we first sought
the “kingdom of God and its righteous-
ness,” everything will be added to us.
	Sister Luie Stevenson bore a testimony
of the truth.
	Sister Phelps spoke in tongues, and Sis-
ter Young interpreted it.
	Sister Bateman and Sister Witzel bore
faithful testimonies, also two other sisters.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts said she had
offered her services to the society to talk to
these young ladies and young mothers on
their duties in life. She said she was very
anxious to do all the good she could.
	President Horne said she thought there
was a kind of awakening among the Latter-
day Saints; that our numbers were increas-
ing. She wished the Relief Society presi-
dents to explain in their societies concern-
ing the class to be organized by Dr. Roberts.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said it was the
intention to meet the coming Thursday, in
the 14th ward hall, and make costumes for
the nurses’ corps, that they may be dressed
in uniform.
	Singing, “The God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Counselor Webb.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS
Via ORECON SHORT LINE,
Only one fare for the round-trip. Tickets
on sale Dec. 23rd, 24th, 25th, 31st and
Jan. 1st, good returning until Jan. 3rd.
Best train service. Five trains each way
between Salt Lake and Ogden.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. BARRATT’S PARTY.
	A very pleasant gathering of notable
people of this city was given by Mrs. M.
M. Barratt at her handsome cottage, corner
of North and West Temple, Wednesday,
December 20. The guests were President
Lorenzo Snow and wife, President George
Q. Cannon find wife, President Joseph F.
Smith and wife, President Brigham Young
and wife; Apostles F. M. Lyman and wife,
John Henry Smith and wife, Heber J.
Grant, wife and mother. Anthon H. Lund
and Mathias F. Cowley; President Angus
M. Cannon and wife, Bishop W. B. Preston
and wife and Bishop John R. Winder and
wife, Mrs. B .W. Smith, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. M. G. Wells, and some others.
	About five o’clock the guests were seated
at tables in the elegant dining room to par-
take of a sumptuous banquet, President
Snow pronounced the blessing. At each
plate was a souvenir bouquet, and the com-
pany was in genial humor, judging from
the lively flow of conversation.
	During the evening attention was called
to the beautiful and rare collection of
very fine pictures, most of them brought
from her home in England. Mr. Sam Bar-
ratt gave us choice musical selections on
the piano, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, at the re-
quest of President Joseph F. Smith and
others, gave an account of the reception
given at Windsor Castle by Queen Victoria
to the International Council and Congress
in London. July 7, on which occasion thir-
teen women from Utah were present.
	The guests enjoyed the visit with Mrs.
Barratt, who is a most gracious and hos-
pitable hostess, and her son, Mr. Samuel
Barratt, made every one feel at home by his
courteous attentions and evident desire to
please. Mrs. Barratt was assisted in re-
ceiving by her cousin, Mrs. Joseph Watson.
	The gathering was in all respects a most
enjoyable one, and to those whose minds
are so closely occupied with the daily
routine of business affairs, such social en-
joyment is a welcome pastime.
E. B. W.


[Column 1]
A PLEASANT BIRTHDAY GATHERING.
	On the 16th of this month (December)
Sister Esther M. Bunnell attained the ad-
vanced age of eighty-five years. Her birth-
day was celebrated at the rooms of her
daughter, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, in the
Constitution building, in this city.
	The hostess’ rooms presented a gala-day
appearance, and she gave a fine dinner on
the occasion of her mother’s anniversary.
The tables were arranged in a “T” form
and the venerable mother in Israel occupied
the seat of honor, looking as fresh and fair
as most women at fifty. On her right
hand, her daughter, the successful wom-
an physician, the first of the women of Utah
to graduate in the medical profession, and
near by, her other daughter, Mrs. Jose-
phine Hardy.
	Among those present were Hon. C. W.
Penrose, editor of the Deseret Evening
News; Mrs. E. B. Wells, editor of the
Woman’s Exponent; Parley P., Louis,
Mark and Irwin Pratt, sons of Dr. Pratt,
and their wives and children, and Mrs.
Hardy’s daughters, Mr. and Mrs. Frederic
Klienschmidt and Mr. and Mrs. Louis
Pratt.
	Fifteen sat down to dinner at 6 p. m.
The table was profusely decorated with
beautiful flowers—carnations, roses and

[Column 2]
chrysanthemums, with fresh green ferns
and smilax. Elder Penrose pronounced the
blessing. The dinner was very like a
Christmas feast; an elegant birthday cake
was one of the many delicacies.
	Many good wishes and congratulations
were extended to the dear mother and
grandmother in whose honor the company
had assembled, and many compliments upon
her good looks, her personal appearance and
the remarkable preservation of her health
and faculties. She is certainly a wonder-
fully well-preserved woman, and has a
sweet spirit, which is manifest to all who
meet her from time to time.
	Sister Bunnell was born in Guilford Co.,
North Carolina, near Raleigh, Dec. 16,
1814; her maiden name was Mendenhall.
Her family were Quakers, and in the time
of the Revolutionary war, the British
troops quartered in that locality were very
troublesome. One of their Generals took
possession of her great grandfather’s, (James
Mendenhall) grist mill and farm, and
turned his company of cavalry, horses and
men into the fields of grain and other crops,
destroying everything the good old Quaker
farmer had on his premises.
	Miss Esther Mendenhall moved with her
parents to Indiana about 1830, and there
became acquainted with Isaac Bunnell,
whom she married when seventeen years of
age. She has been the mother of six chil-
dren. Two died when young and four are
still living—Romania, the eldest, and Jose-
phine, the other daughter, with their families,
reside here; Luther and Isaac in other
states. Besides her four children, Sister
Bunnell has thirteen grandchildren and
thirteen great grandchildren.
	Brother and Sister Bunnell joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
and went from Indiana to Nauvoo and
Winter Quarters, but afterwards returned
to Washington, Ohio, in Warren Co., and
purchased a farm, and subsequently to
Indiana, from which place Sister Bunnell
with her family emigrated to Utah in 1855,
in an independent company of Saints in
charge of John Hindley as captain. Sister
Bunnell was baptized about 1841 or ’42, by
Elder Amasa M. Lyman, and having a great
desire to see the Prophet Joseph Smith
paid a visit to Nauvoo, her husband’s niece,
Miss Monimia Bunnell accompanying her
as a companion on the journey.
	When afterwards she went up to Nauvoo
it was about the time of the exodus, and
with the Saints they journeyed to Winter
Quarters, on the Missouri river. Like many
others of the Saints she has seen many
changes and reverses of fortune; but her
faith in the Gospel has remained firm and.
steadfast throughout, and in the evening of
her life she has no regrets, for the days
glide smoothly by among her loved ones,
who estee m her presence a blessing and to
be near her a precious privilege.
						E. B. W.


BOSTON TEA PARTY.
	The State Society of Utah Daughters of
the Revolution, celebrated the 126th anni-
versary of the Boston Tea Party, Saturday,
December 16th, in this city, at the residence
of Mrs. W. B. Dougall. The parlors were
decorated with the stars and stripes, carna-
tions and the green coptis leaves were pret-
tily arranged in vases here and there about
the rooms. Several invited guests were
present besides the members. The exer-


cises were opened with prayer by Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young. Original sentiments and
reminiscences of the first Boston Tea Party
were given by several of the ladies, one
being original verses by the first Vice-
Regent, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, of Provo,
and the Regent, Mrs. Wells, read a descrip-
tive poem of the destruction of the tea on
the night of December 16, 1773. Copies of
the State Constitution were distribu-
ted.
	The Regent presented the guests with a
bow-knot of red white and blue ribbon,
with the flag, as a souvenir of the day.
Dainty refreshments were served with cho-
colate, minus tea, and social conversation
whiled away a pleasant hour, with many
patriotic expressions of integrity to our
free Republic and honor to the flag. Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beatie enlivened the party with
musical selections on the piano. Mrs. B.
W. Smith pronounced the benedic-
tion.
	Such anniversary gatherings keep in mem-
ory the struggles of our revolutionary
ancestors for the independence and liberty
bequeathed to their posterity.
E. B. W.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	R. K. THOMAS has a fine display of dry
goods, artistically arranged for Christmas
showing. The genial, good-natured mer-
chant himself is always at his post, and has
a pleasant word for all who enter to look at
his large and substantial supply of winter
goods and ready made clothing.
	C. R. SAVAGE has a fine assortment of
everything in the way of Christmas goods,
and also Santa Claus trees and photography.
One can purchase magazines there, too, for
he keeps a sort of news stand and has been
established so many years in business along
the lines mentioned, that he scarcely needs
advertising. C. R. Savage’s art and picture
gallery is known from the Pacific to the
Atlantic in all the large cities.
	MARGETTS bookstore though not so old
is well equipped with books, stationery and
large and small children’s sleds, towboggins
and Christmas trees, everything to please
the little folks, and suitable gifts in great
variety, magnificent dolls and a great vari-
ety of such articles as stationers keep are
always obtainable at Margetts.
	THE elegant new book store of Geo. Q.
Cannon & Sons, on Main Street, has a
fine display for the holidays[-] in rare pictures,
books, dolls and gorgeous toys; everything
to make glad the heart and please the fancy,
and suitable gifts and souvenirs for Christ-
mas greetings, gatherings and festivities;
all kinds of stationery and everything in
that line. This is also a printing and
publishing house and they keep on hand all
Latter-day Saint Church works.
	THE George Washington Memorial Asso-
ciation of Utah, held services in memory of
the one hundredth anniversiry of the death
of George Washington, First President of
the United States and Father of his Country,
in the Salt Lake Theatre, on Sunday eve-
ning, December 17. The house was
crowded. An interesting address by Mrs.
C. E. Allen and an eloquent speech by the
Rev. Clarence Brown and music by the
Orpheus and Chaminade Clubs, with solo
by George D. Pyper, were notable features
of the evening.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15 & 24, 1899.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS.
	Hon. Franklin D. Richards, president of
the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and
Historian of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, departed this life just
after midnight, Saturday, December 9,
1899. After a lingering illness of some
weeks, he succumbed to the inevitable, and
finally fell into a peaceful slumber and in
reality never tasted death.
	Not only does his family mourn for him,
but all Israel mourns sincerely the loss of
this great leader, one of the veterans of the
Church, who has “borne the heat and burden
of the day” lo, these many years, who has
labored unceasingly and unfalteringly for
Zion. But he has entered into light and
has, no doubt, met with his co-workers in
the Quorum of the Apostles, who had pre-
ceded him, and is with the martyred Prophet
and Patriarch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith.
The Saints do not mourn for him, but only
for the loss to those here, who miss his
ministrations and labors in the Church. We
know his life, his labors, his integrity to
the truth, entitle him to all the blessings
and privileges of the celestial world—he
has passed from death into life; therefore,
there is no need to mourn except for his
presence here, and, no doubt, he was weary
with his multifarious labors and his many
years of faithful service.
	President Richards possessed a noble,
tender, affectionate and sympathetic nature
and a kindly disposition. He was refined
and sensitive in a marked degree, affable
and courteous in manner, and singularly
gifted in conversation. He had a fund of
information on a great diversity of subjects,
and a wonderful flow of language. He
was an eloquent public speaker, always de-
lighting his audience, and was greatly gifted
in calling upon the Lord in prayer.
	His labors have been so diversified, he
has filled so many important places and
accomplished so much real work as a mis-
sionary, a judge, a legislator, a presiding
officer and leader in many capacities, that it
would be impossible in our little paper to
do even scant justice to his life-work; but
as a friend and advocate of the woman’s
cause, equality of rights and woman’s pub-
lic, work in the Church, the women of Zion
had no more staunch supporter. The Relief
Society depended in a great measure upon
President Richards for advice and counsel.
He always attended their conferences when

[Column 2]
it was possible for him to do so, and his in-
structions were ever timely and inspira-
tional.
	But the faithful servants and handmaidens
of God who helped lay the foundation of
the Church here upon the earth in this dis-
pensation, one after another are passing
away, gathering home:
“They are gathering homeward from every land
	One by one,
As their weary feet touch the shining sand,
	One by one.
Their brows are enclosed in a golden crown,
Their travel-stained garments are all laid down,
And clothed in white garments they rest on the mead,
Where the Lamb of God doth His chosen lead
	One by one.
We, too, shall come to the river’s side
	One by one,
We are nearer its waters each eventide
	One by one.
We can hear the noise and dash of the stream,
Now and again thro’ our life’s deep dream;
Sometimes the floods all the banks overflow;
Sometimes in ripples and small waves go,
	One by one.
Jesus, Redeemer, we look unto Thee,
	One by one
We lift up our voices triumphantly,
	One by one.
The waves of the river are dark and cold,
We know not the place where our feet may hold;
Thou, who didst pass through in deep midnight,
Strengthen us, send us the staff and light
	One by one."
	Franklin Dewey Richards, like many of
the leading men and women of the
Church, comes of the New Eng-
land Puritan stoc[-]; he was born in
Richmond, Berkshire Co, Massachusetts,
April 2, 1821. His parents were Phinheas
Richards and Wealthy Dewey Richards.
They were Congregationalists, and their
children were trained up in piety, according
to the Puritan principles and customs of
that day; trained in honesty, industry
sobriety, virtue, integrity and uprightness,
and to strictly observe the Sabbath day.
	As a boy Brother Richards was a diligent
student, and attended Sunday School regu-
larly and was early impressed with religious
views, but differed in his scriptural ideas
from those of most people with whom he
was associated, and, therefore, declined a
special offer made to him to study for the
ministry in a leading New England college.
The Lord had something better for him, as
his after life has proven. Elders Brigham
and Joseph Young carried the Gospel to his
native town in the summer of 1836, and
left the Book of Mormon in the Richards
family.
	Elder Franklin D. Richards became
acquainted with the family of Isaac Snyder
while preaching the Gospel as a mission-
ary in Northern Indiana, and subsequently,
Dec. 18, 1842, married Miss Jane Snyder,
the youngest daughter of Brother and Sister
Snyder, at Nauvoo, Illinois, whither the
family had previously gathered.
	Elder Richards left Nauvoo in 1843 with
Brigham Young, president of the Twelve
Apostles, to preach the Gospel in the Atlan-
tic States, expecting, too, to sail for Europe;
but before sailing they heard of the dread-
ful tragedy, the martyrdom of the Prophet
and Patriarch, and returned to Nauvoo.
	Elder Richards traveled in 1845 among
the Saints in Michigan, and gathered dona-
tions for the Nauvoo Temple. When the
exodus came he committed his family to
the Great Creator’s care, after fitting them
out with a team and wagon, and the few
necessaries he could supply, and again
started on a mission to England. Elder F.
D. Richards and his brother, Samuel W.,

[Column 3]
accompanied Apostle Parley P. Pratt upon
this mission. Previous to sailing from New
York, Sep. 22, 1846, word reached Elder
Richards that his wife had borne a son, and
that the babe had only lived one hour.
They reached Liverpool October 14, and
there Elder Richards filled several very re-
sponsible positions in the British mission,
lab[-]ring faithfully among the people and in
the office at Liverpool.
	In February, 1848, he was appointed to
take charge of a large company of Saints
who were coming to the Rocky mountains.
Before reaching home he heard of the death
of his little daughter, Wealthy, who had
been born in Nauvoo. This little one left
his wife lonely and heart-broken. His
brother, Joseph William, a member of the
Mormon Battalion, had also died during his
absence upon this mission.
	Elder Richards and family reached Salt
Lake valley October 19, 1848, enduring
many hardships on the journey. Sister
Richards was very sick the entire way,
much of the time it seemed as though she
could not live to reach her destination.
	On the 12th of February, 1849, Elder
Richards was ordained an Apostle in the
Quorum of the Twelve. In October of the
same year he was called to go on another
mission to England with Apostles John
Taylor, who was going to France, and
Lorenzo and Erastus Snow, to Scandinavia.
During his mission in Great Britain at this
time he filled the office of president (while
Orson Pratt went to America on business)
and edited the Millennial Star and began
the establishment of the Perpetual Emigra-
tion Fund.
	In 1851, when Apostle Pratt was called
home, Franklin D. Richards was installed
as president of the European mission. Dur-
ing the time he was presiding he revised
and enlarged the L. D. S. Hymn Book, and
published an edition of 25,000 copies,
prepared the pamphlet The Pearl of Great
Price, sterotyped the Book of Mormon, and
arranged for sterotyping the Doctrine
and Covenants, issued a new edition of the
Voice of Warning, by P. P. Pratt, and
made the Millennial Star a weekly instead
of a semi-monthly periodical, and performed
various other important labors in connec-
tion with his brethren in the mission. He
returned from this mission in 1852, arriving
in the valley August 20. He remained at
home less than two years, participated in
various public affairs—legislative, military,
civil and Ecclesiastical—and early in 1854
set off again for another mission to Europe,
reaching Liverpool June 4, 1854. It was
while on this mission, in 1855, he founded
42 Islington, which place has been the
Saints’ headquarters ever since.
	In October, 1855, the original Saxon
mission was established in Dresden under
the personal direction of President Richards.
It was also within his province to direct the
branches in the East Indies, Africa, Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and other parts of the
world. Among other literary labors per-
formed at this period, President Richards
published Sister Eliza R. Snow’s first
volume of poems.
	President Richards returned home early
in the fall of 1856, and was busily engaged
in public duties, building up Zion at home
from that time, until in 1866 he was again
appointed on a mission. He arrived in
Liverpool, September 11, and began visiting
the Conferences in Europe, including Scan-
dinavia and other continental Conferences.
In July, 1867, he was again appointed


[Column 1]
to preside over the European mission.
	After filling this last foreign mission, he
returned home to renew his labors in Zion
with greater zeal and earnestness, if that
were possible. In February, 1869, he was
elected probate Judge of Weber County, and
in May of that year moved to Ogden where
he has ever since resided, though much of
his time has been spent in Salt Lake City,
owing to his Ecclesiastical duties as one of
the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and
he has also been Church Historian ever since
the death of Apostle Orson Pratt. When
the State Historical Society was organized
something over two years ago, Apostle
Richards was elected president. At the
time of President Wilford Woodruff’s de-
cease, when President Lorenzo Snow be-
came president of the Church, Apostle
Richards succeeded to the presidency of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
	In all the official positions to which Presi-
dent Richards has been appointed or elected,
he has been faithful to the trust and mag-
nified his calling. No man in the Church
was, perhaps, more widely known, and he
was universally respected and beloved. He
has gone full of honors and ripe in years to
an eternal inheritance, and his name will
be held in everlasting remembrance unto
the latest generation of those who dwell
upon the earth.
	The funeral services of President F. D.
Richards were held in the Ogden Taber-
nacle on Tuesday, December 12, commenc-
ing about 1:30 p. m. Several car loads of
people from Salt Lake City went to Ogden
to attend the funeral. Presidents L. Snow,
G. Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, Brig-
ham Young and all the other Apostles who
were at home in Utah, several of the presi-
dents of Seventies, and many other breth-
ren, sisters and friends.
	The Tabernacle was beautifully draped in
white, and the lovely floral offerings were
numerous and many of them magnificent.
The Relief Society of Weber Stake presented
a column of exquisite flowers as a token of
their love and respect for President Rich-
ards, who on all occasions had been their
firm friend and counselor, and never failed
to attend their conferences when it was pos-
sible to meet with them. Such tokens of
appreciation are all the friends can give to
express their tenderness and sympathy for
those who mourn; and there is some satisfac-
tion in bestowing a beautiful gift in times
of sorrow.
	The large Tabernacle was filled to over-
flowing and many were unable to gain
admittance. The exercises were conducted
by Bishop Robert McQuarrie, of the Second
Ward. The choir sang that favorite hymn
“O, my Father,” at the opening, and
Apostle F. M. Lyman offered the pray-
er. The choir sang “Nearer my God to
Thee.”
	President L. W. Shirtliff, of the Weber
Stake, was the first speaker, then Bishop
McQuarrie and Hon. D. H. Perry. A
quartette, “The Passing of the Sweetest
Soul,” was beautifully rendered, after
which Apostle Brigham Young, though
much affected, addressed the assembly.
	President Lorenzo Snow in his remarks
alluded to President Richards and himself
having been ordained to the Apostleship on
the same day, and paid a loving and elo-
quent tribute to his labors and his memory,
blest his family and closed by saying: “We
may think we have sustained a great loss,
but let us understand what Brother Richards
himself has gained.”

[Column 2]
	Presidents Cannon and Smith each spoke
a few moments, testifying of the valiant
works of the deceased and the love they
bore him; of his unflinching integrity to the
Gospel, his humility of spirit and meekness,
and blest his family, his sons and his
daughters.
	The choir sang as the closing hymn,
“Farewell all earthly honors,” and
Apostle John Henry Smith pronounced the
benediction.
EMILY DOW PARTRIDGE YOUNG.
	Mrs. Emily Dow Partridge Young, wife
of the late President Brigham Young, and
one of the distinguished heroines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
departed this life, Saturday, December 9,
1899, at 4 o’clock, aged seventy-five years,
nine months and ten days.
	Mrs. Young was born in the town of
Painesville, Geauga county, Ohio, on
February 28, 1824. Her parents were
Edward Partridge and Lydia Clisbee Par-
tridge, and were both of them born in
Massachusetts, but moved to Ohio with
their parents when young people, where
they became acquainted, married and settled
in Painesville. Bishop Edward Partridge,
the father of Mrs. Young, was the first pre
siding Bishop ordained in the Church. He
was baptized December 11, 1830, at Seneca
Falls, New York State, by Joseph Smith,
whither he had gone to see the Prophet.
	Mrs. Young grew to womanhood under
the influence of the Gospel, and has been
faithful and devoted to the work through-
out her whole life, never swerving to the
right nor left. With her the Gospel was
ever uppermost. The purity of the life of
this good woman is and has ever been be-
yond question, yet she has known such
persecution as but few women have ex-
perienced. In Kirtland, in Missouri, in
Nauvoo, everywhere that the Saints have
settled Mrs. Young has been associated
with them and passed through the trials
and tribulations incident to the history of
this people. Her autobiography written
by herself and published in the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, gives some of the most thrilling
instances that have transpired among the
Saints.
	Mrs. Young was gifted intellectually if
she had cultivated her talent for writing,
and could have given us reminiscences of
the experiences of the Saints that would
have been a valuable acquisition to Church
history.
	Mrs. Emily D. Partridge Young was one
of the first women to accept and enter into
the order of plural marriage. She became
the wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith with
the full and free consent of his wife, Emma
Smith. After his death she again entered
into that order and was married to President
Brigham Young, and received her blessings
and all the ordinances of the House of the
Lord in the Temple at Nauvoo, and with
her husband crossed the Mississippi river in
Feb. 1846, at the time of the exodus of the
Saints from Illinois. During that weari-
some journey she experienced many hard-
ships, being in delicate health and travel-
ing with a young babe at that most in-
clement season of the year; but she never
murmured or repined, but bore patiently all
the hardships incident to the journey and
life at Winter Quarters afterwards. The
eldest son of Mrs. Young, born in Nauvoo,
died in this city at the age of seven. He
was named Edward Partridge Young, and

[Column 3]
was a very bright and promising boy. Sis-
ter Young has been the mother of seven
children, Emily Augusta, her eldest daugh-
ter, is the wife of Bishop H. B. Clawson;
Caroline, the second daughter, is the wife
of President George Q. Cannon. Her only
living sun, Prof. Don Carlos Young, resides
at present in Provo and is connected with
the Brigham Young Academy. Miriam is
the wife of Bishop Leonard G. Hardy, and
recently moved to Canada (the only one
absent from the city.) Josephine is the wife
of Dr. A. C. Young. A daughter, Luna,
the youngest child, died when seven
months old. Mrs. Young has over forty
grandchildren, several great grandchildren,
a numerous posterity, and all in the faith of
the Gospel in which she believed and for
which she made great and noble sacrifices.
Mrs. Young was a very retiring, modest-
and reticent woman, but firm in her con-
victions as the everlasting hills.
	Mrs. Young passed away peacefully at
last, although she has suffered with sick-
ness considerably during the last few years.
Her death was the result of general debility
brought on by a kind of nervous prostra-
tion and weakness. She was greatly be-
loved by her own family and also loved and
revered by the family of her late husband,
and the women of the Latter-day Saints
who had the pleasure of her acquaintance.
She died at the residence of her daughter,
Mrs. Clawson, in the Twelfth Ward, though
her own home is in the Second ward.
	Verily it may be said of this saintly
woman, “Her children rise up and call her 
blessed.”
	The funeral services were held in the
Twelfth Ward meeting house and were of a
most interesting character. There were
many floral emblems placed upon the bier,
beautiful designs and loose flowers, fra-
grant with perfume, as was her sweet life
of purity and loveliness. The casket was
pure white and the house was draped with
white; there were no symbols of death and
no feeling of gloom. Tears were shed in
love and sympathy, but only for the separ-
ation from one so well beloved.
	Counselor Wardrop conducted the exercises.
Presidents George Q. Cannon and Joseph
F. Smith were present, and of the Quorum
of the Twelve Apostles, President Brigham
Young, F. M. Lyman, John Henry Smith,
George Teasdale and H. J. Grant.
	The singing was by a quartette of male 
voices, George D. Pyper, H. S. Ensign,
James Dunbar and J. D. Spencer. The
first hymn rendered was “Art thou weary.”
Then an eloquently sympathetic prayer
by Elder Seymour B. Young. The quartette,
“The Savior will comfort you,” was feel-
ingly given.
	President Brigham Young was the first
speaker. He testified to his high regard for
the deceased and spoke of her many virtues.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman followed in a simi-
lar strain, alluding to the sterling character-
istics of the Partridge family.
	President George Q. Cannon dwelt upon
the noble life and many admirable qualities
of Sister Young and of her being a woman
of literary ability, although she had been
backward in exercising herself in this
direction.
	President Joseph F. Smith delivered the
principal discourse, relating many notable
instances and events that had transpired in
the days of the Prophet Joseph. The
speaker seemed filled to overflowing with 
the Holy Spirit.


The closing hymn was “The Night of
Rest,” and the benediction was by Apostle
J. H. Smith.
Sister Young was buried in the city
cemetery, a long line of carriages following
the hearse to the last resting place of the
deceased, where the earthly tabernacle of
the dear departed one was consigned to the
grave, whtch was dedicated by Apostle
Teasdale. And another of the illustrious
heroines of the days of the Prophet Joseph
has gone to meet him on the other side.

So—by small, slow footsteps,
By the daily cross,
By the heart’s unspoken yearning,
By its grief and loss;
So—He brings them home to rest,
With the victors crowned and blest."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HEROINES OF THE REVOLUTION.
	One of the well-known women and
what she endured, was Anna Warner Bailey,
known as Mother Bailey. She witnessed
the massacre of Fort Griswold, walked
three miles to find a wounded uncle, and at
his request to see his wife and child she ran
home, saddled a horse for the feeble mother,
and carried the child herself to see the dy-
ing patriot. In 1813, when the British
threatened to attack New London, she tore
up flannel garments for cartridges. What a
heroic character!
	What did our Revolutionary grandmothers
not do? They were obliged to go into the
fields and work, because there were no
men to be had. The women had to farm,
cook, nurse, fight and protect themselves.
Deborah Sampson, whose story we
completed in our last issue, died in Sharon,
Conn., in 1827, at fifty-seven years of age.
She sustained to the end a brave character,
made a faithful and exemplary wife and
mother, a kind neighbor and friend, and we
will thank her for her part in the war
which helped to set us free, and overlook
the unpleasantness of her adventure.
“True patriots, like true saints, frequently
come out of great tribulations strong men
and women.”
	The women suffered greatly from small-
pox contracted from the British soldiers.
Hannah Cartaret, daughter of Sir George
Cartaret, of New Jersey, was among the
list. She became the wife of Cornelius
Bryant and they had a daughter, Betsy
Bryant, who was called one of the heroic
girls of the Revolution. She is called the
Revolutionary grandmother of our chapter,
for there are two members of the Knicker-
bocker chapter descended from these two
brave women. Many handsome women
and pretty girls were made ugly looking,
and many died of small-pox.
	They knew how sublime a thing it is to
suffer and be strong.
	Mrs. Hannah Caldwell, wife, of the
“Soldier Parson,” of Elizabeth, N. J., was
praying for her enemies that they might be
pardoned, when she was shot. She had an
infant in her arms at the time. She left
nine children, one son, John Edwards, was
afterwards adopted and educated by the
Marquis de LaFayette.
	No pen of historian or poet can tell the
story of the Revolution as it actually
pressed upon the hands and hearts of our
grandfathers and grandmothers. The ex-
ertions and sacrifices made by them are far
beyond computation, and by the blessings
of heaven they achieved a success beyond
their hopes. For more than a hundred
years their posterity has been reaping the

[Column 2]
fruits of their toils, and a vast and growing
Republic is their monument.
	The Revolution not only tried the
courage of our grandfathers, but also of
our grandmothers. “Mrs. Nancy Bundy
with her husband and two children, was
captured at the massacre of Wyoming and
taken to Genesee County where she was
parted from her husband. She had not
been there long before the Indian who
took her prisoner wished her to become his
wife, which she refused, saying, ‘I have
one, it would be unlawful for me to take
another.’ He left her. Shortly after he
returned saying, ‘Now you have me—your
husband is dead,’ to which she replied, I
cannot marry a murderer.’ When he saw
she hated him, he tied her, took her to
Niagara, and sold her for eight dollars.
She never knew what became of her chil-
dren.”—History of Scoharie, on page
336.
	The burden of the war fell very heavily
upon New Jersey; it was the battlefield of
the Revolution. The women of Morris
County were brave, especially so the shrewd
Mrs. Miller, When she heard the British
declare they would triumph, she concen-
trated the Whigs of that region and held
meetings in her own house so as to defeat
the Tories, and cleared them out, showing
her great power. There were many women
like her. Oh, that we could know their
names!
	Anna Kitchell was a fair representative
scorning protection. While her husband
and four brothers were away in the Ameri-
can army, she kept the great pot full of
food for the patriot soldiers, and when asked
why she did not have some protection she
replied: “If the God of battle will not take
care of us we will fare with the rest.” This
large pot held half a barrel of meat and
potatoes, and similar pots were kept filled
in other homes.
		HELEN MELINDA FISHER.


[Column 1]
FROM A MOTHER’S STANDPOINT.
	Long ago in the lovely vales of Utah
dwelt a childless married woman. After
seven years of unsatisfied longing, loving
and revering her worthy husband more as
the years proved him to be the highest type
of manhood combined with great integrity,
they both greatly desiring offspring, which
it seemed in vain to hope for. At last,
with the full consent of all concerned, this
worthy man took to wife another Daughter
of Zion, familarly known and loved by
both husband and wife. In a year’s time a
son was born to gladden their hearts, and
in due time another son and then a daugh-
ter, then another son. Then, after a score
of years of waiting, a son, promised by the
spirit of prophecy, came to the childless
wife. She was visited by hundreds of
women, rejoicing that she had triumphed,
and saying she had been blessed even as
Sarah of old, she herself knowing it was
even so.
	In due time another son and two daugh-
ters were born to this just man and his
patient and true wife, until quite a family
belonged, to this once childless man, he still
gaining yearly the esteem and love of his
now large family, proving most faithful,
even unto death.
	Unjust persecution, cruel and needless
crusade, with a little sickness, combined to
take him to a better sphere, leaving his
wives and family to battle on and win; and

[Column 2]
with such a foundation they felt they must
not fail.
	Now, has this state of affairs wrought
good or evil?
	Those most concerned think the former
will far out-balance the latter, their
greatest ambition being to prove worthy to
live in this most holy and revealed family
order with the father of their offspring,
throughout a never ending Eternity.
	The writer having been born through
this same order of marriage, (her father
was one of the first Apostles in the Church)
cannot do otherwise than revere the same,
though her people are now prohibited from
its practise.
	With her belief, and remembering her
pioneer parents, feeling a divine assurance
that these conditions will exist forever in
Eternity for the faithful, she naturally
enters a plea for the principle as justice
for her children born in this pure and holy
order. The husband of this woman frankly
told her during their courtship that with
his convictions she might not be the only
wife he might ever take; and if she did not
feel to acquiesce, now was the time to with-
draw.
	Was this not honorable and straightfor-
ward?
	After the step was taken, she regarded
him with new interest, and no coldness
arose between them.
	Here are mentioned by title some of the
lullaby songs which the childless wife sung
to her husband’s children: There is a
Home Eternal, Wildwood Flowers, Belle
Brandon, Swanee River, Katie Wells,
Gentle Annie, Afton Waters, Rock Me to
Sleep Mother, The Mistletoe Bough, Down
in the Cornfield, Nellie Gray, Highland
Mary, O Zion. And her audience was
most appreciative until sweet sleep closed
the innocent young eyes.
	Did she enjoy amusing these chil-
dren?
	So much that if she were away from
them at eventide she longed to be with
them, even as an own mother might have
done. Can she or they forget those happy
days, the songs or the singer? Never!
	Grateful for the philosophic spirit that
inspired her she toiled for the children,
making the sewing machine hum in those
days for the dear ones; and at night those
blessed home hearts-ease concerts—truly
those were happy days!
	A piece of household furniture never to
be forgotten was a large rocker, roomily
serving for two children, in which they
often ate their evening meal. Oh! those
halcyon days are now long past.
	Now, having children of her very own,
she does not always think to sing at even-
tide (their father having gone before, she is
not as tuneful as of yore) until at their re-
quest she sings the same old songs, with
the same effect upon her audience, bring-
ing back those hearts-ease days, not then so
full of care. And she is grateful for the
truth forced upon her, that time is not al-
ways lost in singing to young children, or
those of riper years who will listen.
	One of the sons of this happy household
served his country, and distinguished him-
self by his heroism in the struggles in
Manila, with Battery A. 
	The tender young life of this precious
promised son was most tenderly cared for in
the first weeks of his helplessness by his
father’s elder sister, than whom a truer
woman never lived in mortality.
						RACHEL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING DAY.
’Tis meet we render praise.
	Thanksgiving Day had its origin in
America (the New World) appointed by our
Puritan fathers away back in the time of
the first settlements in New England, they
having left the old world where they had
been persecuted for their religion’s sake
and driven from place to place. At last
they sailed to the shores of the New World
with a determination to be free to worship
God according to the dictates of their own
conscience.
	One year had passed away since they
landed from the Mayflower, when, accord-
ing to history, they held the first Thanks-
giving Day. The following selected lines
describe it so beautifully. They were sug-
gested by this extract from Palfrey’s his-
tory of New England:
	There was great store of wild Turkeys of which
they took many besides venison—the fowlers had
been sent out by the Governor that so they might,
after a special manner rejoice together after they
had gathered the fruits of their labor.
The First Thanksgiving.
BY ALICE WILLIAMS BOTHERTON.
					I.
In Puritan New England a year had passed away,
Since first beside the Plymouth coast the English
	Mayflower lay,
When Bradford, the good Governor, sent fowlers
	forth to snare
The turkey and the wild fowl, to increase the
	scanty fare:—
					II.
“Our husbandry hath prospered; there is corn
	enough for food,
Though the ‘pease be parched in blossom, and the
	corn indifferent good.’
Who blessed the loaves and fishes for the feast
	miraculous,
And filled with oil the widow’s cruse, He hath re-
	membered us!
					III.
“Give thanks thanks unto the Lord of hosts, by whom we
	all are fed,
Who granted us our daily prayer, ‘Give us our
	daily bread!’
By us and by our children let this day be kept for
	aye,
In memory of His bounty, as the land’s Thanks-
	giving day.”
					IV.
Each brought his share of Indian-meal the pious
	feast to make,
With the fat deer from the forest and the wild fowl
	from the brake,
And chanted hymn and prayer were raised—
	though eyes with tears were dim— 
“The Lord He hath remembered us, let us remem-
	ber Him!”
					V.
Then Bradford stood up at their head and lifted
	up his voice:—
“The corn is gathered from the field, I call you to
	rejoice;
Thank God for all His mercies, from the greatest
	to the least;
Together have we fasted, friends, together let us
	feast.”
					VI.
“The Lord who led forth Israel was with us in the
	waste;
Sometime in light, sometime in cloud, before us he
	hath paced.
Now give Him thanks, and pray to Him who
	holds us in His hand
To prosper us and make of this a strong and
	mighty band!”
					VII.
From Plymouth to the *Golden Gate, today their
	children tread,
The mercies of the bounteous Hand upon the land
	are shed;

[Column 2]
The “flocks are on a thousand hills,” the prairies
	wave with grain,
The cities spring like mushrooms now, where once
	was desert plain.
					VIII.
Heap high the board with plenteous cheer and
	gather to the feast,
And toast that sturdy Pilgrim band whose courage
	never ceased,
Give praise to that All-Gracious One by whom
	their steps were led,
And thanks unto the Harvest’s Lord who sends
	our “daily bread!”
*Phillipines.
	The first proclamation of Thanksgiving
Day that will be found in printed form is
the one issued by Francis Bernard, captain-
general and governor-in-chief in and over
his majesty’s province of Massachusetts
Bay in New England, and vice-admiral of
the same, in 1763. This is the text:
First Thanksgiving Proclamation.
	“As the business of the year is now drawing to-
ward a conclusion, we are reminded, according
to the laudable usage of the Province, to join to-
gether in a graceful acknowledgment of the mani-
fold mercies of the Divine Providence conferred
upon Us in the passing Year: Wherefore, I have
thought to appoint, and do, with the advice of his
Majesty’s Council, appoint Thursday, the Third
Day of December next, to be a day of public
Thanksgiving, that we may thereupon with one
Heart and Voice return our most Humble Thanks
to Almighty God for the gracious Dispensations of
His Providence since the last religious Anniversary
of this kind, and especially for—that He has been
pleased to preserve and maintain our most gracious
Sovereign, King George, in health and Wealth, in
Peace and Honor, and to extend the Blessings of
his government to the remotest part of his Domin-
ions; that He hath been pleased to bless and pre-
serve our gracious Queen Charlotte, their Royal
Highnesses, the Prince of Wales, the Princess
Dowager of Wales, and all the Royal family, and
by the frequent increase of the Royal issue to
assure us the Continuation of the Blessings which
we derive from that illustrious House; that He
hath been pleased to prosper the whole British
Empire by the Preservation of Peace, the Increase
of Trade and the opening of new Sources of
National Wealth; and now particularly that He
hath been pleased to favor the people of this
Province with healthy and kindly Seasons, and to
bless the Labour of their Hands with a Sufficiency
of the Produce of the Earth and of the Sea.
	“And I do exhort all Ministers of the Gospel
with their several Congregations, within this Prov- 
ince, that they assemble on the said Day in a
Solemn manner to return their most humble thanks
to Almighty God for these and all other of His
Mercies vouchsafed unto us, and to beseech Him
notwithstanding our Unworthiness to continue His
gracious Providence over us. And I command
and enjoin all Magistrates of Civil Officers to
see that the said Day be observed as a Day set
apart for religious worship, and that no servile
Labour be performed thereon.
	“Given at the Council Chamber in Boston the
Fourth Day of November, 1767, in the Eighth
Year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord George
the Third, by the Grace of God, of Great Britain,
France and Ireland, King, Defender of the Faith,
etc.					FRA. BERNARD.
	“By His Excellency’s Command.
	“God Save The King.”
					A. OLIVER, Sec’ry.
	Years passed on filled with trials and
tribulations. Such times that tried men’s
souls to the center and strengthened their
faith in God, and educated our forefathers
and mothers up to that high standard where
they would rather suffer death as martyrs
than to forsake the principles of truth and
right, by which consequence liberty came to
them and us, after seven long years of war
with the mother country.
	So opened a new Era to the nation’s
heroes and heroines, and adds one more
great blessing for which to be thankful. I
feel certain they did not forget to keep the
“Thanksgiving Day” each year as it came
along with its prosperity.
	One Hundred and twenty-three years

[Column 3]
have since passed and the nation still does
honor to God and the illustrious Pilgrims.
Each year the President of the United
States issues a proclamation to the nations,
telling how the day shall be celebrated and
proclaiming it a public holiday. The
Governor of each state issues a similar
proclamation to the people in his state.
	Indeed we have much to be thankful for.
It is impossible to trace our country’s his-
tory, from 1776 up to the present, without
feeling that Providence, which was with
them at the beginning, has continued to us
as a nation His gracious interposition.
When we have been engaged in war, He
has given us the victory. In peace we
have been singularly blessed, and our pro-
gress has gone on unchecked and ever
increasing In boundless wealth of soil and
mine and forest, nature has blessed us,
while all races of men of every nation, abili-
ty and climate, have contributed their
good blood to make our nation what it is.
We have grown from thirteen states to
forty-five. We have increased in wealth
and extent and importance in every way.
The youth of our country is also increasing,
and on them will rest the responsibility of
good government in the future. They
are being educated for the work by the
fatherly care of both state and nation.
Government by the people has been ad-
vanced. Freedom under the flag is more
universal than when the Union was first
formed. Patriotism dwells, in the hearts of
the people. Witness 250,000 springing to
arms at the first call of our honored presi-
dent, William McKinley, at the beginning
of the Spanish war; also the 70,000 recently
enlisted men, and thousands ready to enlist
if their country needed them.
	After one hundred and twenty-three
years our “Liberty” stands unshaken. May
we not feel assured that if we do our duty,
Providence, which favored the undertakings
of the Fathers and every step of the pro-
gress since, will continue this watchful care
over us, and that the hand which led us to
our present plane will not relax its grasp
until we have reached the glorious goal He
has fixed for us in the achievement of this
end.
	But the crowning blessing for which we
should be most thankful is the restoration
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which has
been restored to this great “Land of Zion”
and to every honest heart who will receive
it with its saving and healing power. It
has  come to heal up the nations and
make fruitful the waste places; to bind up
the broken hearted; to restore peace and
universal brotherhood in all the nations of
the earth.
	We should rejoice that His holy Temples
are being built, that between heaven and
earth a communication has been restored
from which cometh light to all the world,
and God has not forgotten his children.

	“Be Thou, O God, exalted high,
	And as Thy glory fills the sky,
	So let it be on earth displayed,
	Till Thou art here, as there, obeyed.”

	“From all that dwells below the skies
	Let the Creator’s praise arise,
	Let the Redeemer’s praise be sung
	Through every land by every tongue.”

	“Eternal are Thy mercies, Lord,
	Eternal truth attends Thy word,
	Thy praise shall sound from shore to
		shore,
	Till suns shall rise and set no more.”
				DELILA E. DUDLEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting convened
October 28, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
Counselor E. Webb presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing, “Where the
voice of friendship’s heard.” Prayer by
Sister Julia C. Howe. Singing, “O, say
what is truth.” Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	President Horne said we are here in this
world to be tried and proven, and we will
get what we merit in this school for future
life. If we are living to gain celestial glory,
we must do the work that we may merit
such glory. We have the promise that if
we seek, we shall find. This is the last
dispensation, time is drawing to a close.
The Savior says, “He that overcometh
shall sit down with me.” We should
strive to overcome our weaknesses. Said
she wished the president of each society
when there is sickness to apply to Superin-
tendent Riter for a nurse. They should
also keep a report of the nurses in their
respective wards and we should not make
paupers of people, we should be wise judges,
help those who are needy, but some solicit
alms when not needy.
	Sister Johnson bore a faithful testimony
of the truth of the Gospel.
	Counselor Webb said though we had had
comparative peace, it seemed that the evil-
minded were organizing themselves against
us now.
	Sister Wright spoke of the necessity of
having faith and helping each other in time
of sickness, and not be filled with fear.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde believed every
woman should have her name on the tithing
books. She read a sketch from the Deseret
News, defaming the Church and people.
	Sister Julia Howe said she knew we were
misrepresented, wished we were more per-
fect. Many were straying away, the re-
sponsibility was great upon the parents.
Felt that the Relief Society teachers could
accomplish much in their rounds, in talking
to the mothers in regard to their children.
Exhorted them to have their children attend
their meetings.
	Sister Brown said she wished to be very
honest and faithful, and knew she must
watch herself carefully.
	A sister (name unknown) bore a testi-
mony of the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Waterfall felt grieved because of
the reports detrimental to our people, that
go out and get published to the world.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “O Jesus, the
Giver.”
	Sister C. S. Williams said she was born
in the Church. Thought we did not appre-
ciate it as the people who came from the
world. She had heard an apostle say that
those born under the covenant would be
claimed by the parents.
	Sister Mary L. Morris said we should
pray for those who are placed over us. She
had never received any injury from attend-
ing the most malignant cases of scarlet
fever, and she believed the Lord helped us
under these circumstances.
	Sister Bateman said she had been in the
Church over fifty years. She thanked the
Lord every day that she had been gathered
with the Saints.
	A stranger in the congregation said she
was a friend of women. Said the great
calamity the world was looking for was the
Almighty separating the wheat from the
tares.
	President Horne made some promises to

[Column 2]
the sisters in regard to their spiritual wel-
fare. Said we have a knowledge of things;
that God has revealed himself unto us; that
the Elders are going into the nations pro-
claiming His Gospel continually. Whom
do we persecute, injure or annoy? Said we
would hold, if convenient, our conference
on the 23rd of December, the birthday of
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Said she wished
the Relief Society presidents to prepare for
comfort of the poor in the wards.
	Meeting adjourned by singing “Satan’s
empire long has flourished.” Benediction
by J. S. Woolley.
J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


U. W. P. C.
	The pleasant home of Mrs. C. F. Wilcox
was thrown open to the members and guests
of the U. W. P. C., Tuesday, October 31,
1899.
	Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze opened the meeting
with prayer, after which Mrs. Bassett sang
“I Am Dreaming a Dream.”
	The names of Mrs. Ada Cannon, Miss
Bessie Louise Shirley and Mrs. Grace
Anderson were proposed as members of the
club. All were unanimously elected.
	A beautiful poem, written by Mrs. M. A.
Freeze, was read by Mrs. Bassett. This
was followed by a carefully prepared paper
on the resume of the year’s work, by Mrs.
H.V. Kimball, and those present were
highly entertained by Mrs. E. B. Wells’
account of her visit to Marie Corelli’s home
in Stratford-on-Avon.
	The election of officer then followed, and
the following were elected:
President—Aimee C. Schiller.
First Vice-President—Emma Jensen.
Second Vice-President—Maria Francis.
Secretary—Grace Anderson.
Assistant Secretary—Mrs. Ruth M. Fox.
Corresponding Secretary—Dr. R. B. Pratt
Assistant Corresponding Secretary—Edith A.
Lovesey.
Treasurer—Ella W. Hyde.
Chairman Program Committee—Helen V.
Kimball,
Historian—Dr. E. R. Shipp.
AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
[logo of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6 	The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2 	The “Over and Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	6 40 p.m.

			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5 	The “Fast Mall” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p. m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	3 00 p. m.
No. 3	The “Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p. m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
	H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

Time Table in Effect October 15, 1899.

	Trains will arrive and depart at Salt Lake City daily as fol-
lows:
					ARRIVE:
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis and Denver,	3:30 a.m.
From Ogden, Portland, Butte, Helena and San Fran-
	cisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:05 a.m.
*From Milford, Sanpete, Provo and Intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:35 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, Denver and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3:00 p.m.
**From Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . .	4:00 p.m.
From Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:30 p.m.
Cache Valley Express, from Preston, Logan, Ogden
	and intermediate points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:40 p.m.
From Ogden, Butee, San Francisco and intermediate
	point. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:50 p.m.

					DEPART.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	Cache Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:00 a.m.
For Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:55 a.m.
**For Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus . . . . . . .	7:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11:45 a.m.
*For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and intermediate points	5:30 p.m.
For Ogden, Denver, Omaha, St. Louis and Chicago . .	6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	8:45 p.m.
*Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
**Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall, 2nd South St,
S. W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.	Gen. P. nd T. A.
	W. H. T, BANCROF
	Vice-President and Gen’l Manager.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

