
Woman's Exponent
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 28.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1899.		No.1


CONTENTS.
Peace Demonstration... 1.
Peace Meeting, Afton Wyoming...
	...Alice A. Gardner 2.
Our Duty to the Women of Our New Posses-
	ssions...Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer 3.
Queen Victoria's Birthday... 4.
U. S. A. Peace Meetings... 5.
A Tribute of Love...E. B. W. 5.
Officers and Resolutions... 5.
Mrs. Sewall's Address... 6.
Peace Meeting at Provo... 6.
Peace Meeting, Castle Dale...K. Anderson 6.
A Woman Missionary...Mrs. Addison Pratt 6.
The Peace Conference... 8.
U. W. P. C....Aimee C. Schiller 8.
The Peace Conference... 8.
Editorial: An Important Gathering of Wo-
	men... 4.
Poetry: Ode to Queen Victoria..Alfred Austin 1.
	The Hour...Josephine Spencer 1.
	Old Age... 2.


ODE TO QUEEN VICTORIA. 
	POET LAUREATE ALFRED AUSTIN.

Spring time was flowering in your fair young
	face,
When first the sceptre laid on you its load—
Springtime and seed time—and how well you
	sowed,
In the rough furrows Life’s long duties trace,
Scattering with lavish hand the smiles of youth
	and grace.
Oh, what a harvest, lady, now is yours,
Empire and fame and glory, and above
Glory and fame—a universal love—
Love rooted deep in reverence that insures
Remembrance of your name as long as time en-
	dures.
Long may the Indian summer of your days,
Yet linger in the land you love so well,
And long may we who no less love you, dwell,
In the reposeful radiance of your gaze,
A golden sunset seen through autumn’s silvery
	haze.


THE HOUR.

In every age there sounds the Watchman’s cry,
	Startling the dwellers in time’s narrow street
With tidings of events which Destiny
	Holds for the dawn to greet.

Now, in the silence of our listless night,
	Chasing with clarion-tone a countless brood
Of selfish dreams—the Voice proclaims the light
	Of man’s true Brotherhood.

This, not the cant-phrase of the Pharisee
	Nor empty word of all the warring creeds,
But watch-word of a Cause at last to be
	Clad in the garb of Deeds.

From countless armies whom the torch of war
	Enflames with brutish lust of strife and blood—
From hopeless women, who have seen the star
	Of empire rise through flood

Of staunchless tears; from fields whose furrows lie
	Sown with brave hearts, which, fired with com-
		mon zeal
For human right, laid every kindred tie
	At altar of that weal—

Has risen one strong prayer, and lo, the cry
	Has reached the hearts of earthly potentates;
When Might enthroned in priceless panoply,
	Behind his kingdom gates

Turns from the ancient law and puts his seal
	Of acquiescence on the gentler code,
Peace needs no mighter symbol of her weal
	There lies an open road


To that great goal to which the sage and seer
	Have prophesied through time—faintly in ages
		far—
The note was sounded, grew, dwindled again,
		and here
	Beats like full flood-tide at the bar.

In every air that broods, or breath that creeps
	From lip to lip—the word rings forth in power;
"Mankind are of one kin; a new faith leaps,
	Arise and meet the hour!"
						JOSEPHINE SPENCER.


[Column 1]
		PEACE DEMONSTRATION.

GOOD ATTENDANCE AT THE ASSEMBLY HALL CON-
VENTION, GOVERNOR WELLS PRESIDED AND RESO- 
LUTIONS WERE ADOPTED ENDORSING THE
		PEACE MOVEMENT, KIPLING'S RECES-
		SIONAL BEAUTIFULLY RENDERED.

	“Peace on earth, good will to men” was
the keynote of the Woman’s Peace conven-
tion held at the Assembly Hall on the eve-
ning of May 15. An audience gathered
that filled the structure to about two-thirds
of its capacity, and although there was lit-
tle demonstration or enthusiasm shown,
there was a deep undercurrent of intense
feeling through all the addresses of the
evening, which sank into the heart of
everyone there. Governor Wells presided
over the meeting.
	George A. Smith opened the meeting
with a prayer, in which he called down the
blessing of the Almighty on the peace
movement. He asked that those who sat
in high places in the councils of the nations
and who had the power to plunge the lands
under their control into war, might be led
to desire for peace and not for war. He
spoke of Utah’s sons now battling in the
Philippines, and asked that those to whom
our boys were opposed might be lead to
realize that the American flag meant to
freedom and peace, and not the yoke of
slavery.
	Governor Wells then read the call for
the meeting and introduced L. E. Hall,
who read the letter of the Czar of Russia
in which he summoned the powers to meet
in a peace convention at The Hague on
May 18.
		MRS. MAYNARD’S ADDRESS.

	Mrs. Mila Tupper Maynard was the first
speaker. “The proposal for a peace con-
vention,” she said, “was received with de-
light the world over. It was welcomed
gladly by those in high official positions in
all lands. Yet among the people, among
every class, it ought to be more welcome
than it has seemed to be. All over the
land peace meetings are being held this
evening. Yes, all over the civilized world.
And the number in attendance here and
the number at each one of these meetings
all around the globe will be cabled abroad,
and our peace commissioners will know of
what the people they represent are doing.
If all the people cared to see the dream of
universal peace realized, war wouldn’t be
possible. War appeal to our young men,
and why? Because it seems to them the
only way to win honor and glory. We
honor our heroes of war, we point to them
as models for our children, we revere them

[Column 2]
and celebrate their birthdays. They may
have been just as heroic in their works in
times of peace, but it is the war side that
we think of as the heroic side. And so we
must set up for our children heroes of
peace. We must make them realize that
the heroes of science and statesmanship and
literature are as great as those of war, and
then they will not so greatly long for the
glory of war, but rather for that of peace.”

DR. TALMAGE.

	Dr. J. E. Talmage followed: “This
movement is but the seed time,” he said,
“the harvest of peace will come after, but
as no harvest can come without a planting
we must sow the seed early if we expect a
harvest. Every government requires its
people to submit their differences to the
courts, and it is not strange that in this en-
lightened age, when it. comes to a difference
between nations these nations fly to the
most brutal and primitive methods to settle
that difference. It is a terrible game of
checkmate; torpedo boats are built to de-
stroy ships; torpedo boat destroyers follow.
Homing pigeons, first cousins to the bird
of peace, are used to carry messages of war,
and now the word comes that falcons are
being trained to catch and kill the harmless
messengers. Yet universal peace will
come at length, though it will not be at-
tained at once. And fullest success will
only come when men follow the precepts of
the humble Nazarene and love each other
as themselves.”
	Mrs. F. D. Kimball recited Edwin
Arnold’s beautiful poem, “ Peace,”and then,
amid a ripple of applause, ex-representative
W. H. King arose.
		JUDGE KING FOR PEACE.
	“Our government,” he said, “should be
the first to take up the great movement to
secure universal peace. We, of all nations,
should take the lead in such a movement.
This republic of ours, dedicated, as it is
supposed to be, to ideals of freedom and
peace, has in the past year spent $300,000,
000 for war. Considering this, isn’t it
time that our nation should reach out its
hands in the effort to obtain peace? This
movement is not wholly Utopian; it is not
unattainable. War is abnormal; it is
wholly wrong; it brings good to almost no
one, and it lays upon the people a terrible,
a harsh, a heavy burden of tears and toil
and sorrow. But we are progressing, and
the day will come at last when universal
peace will be over the earth; when our
hopes our prayers and our prophecies will
be fulfilled, and there will be no more war.
In that day one king will rule on the earth,
and he will be Christ, and His reign will
be from pole to pole.”
		MRS. W. C. JENNINGS.

	Mrs. William C. Jennings said that it
was too much to hope that universal peace
would follow immediately after the peace
conference. “The meeting itself will have
no definite results,” she said, “but all
great movements have been preceded by
the spread of a sentiment and a desire for


the result to be attained that in the end led
to the accomplishment of that result. Dec-
ades before the abolition of slavery the senti-
ment was spreading abroad against it, and
at length the time came, and behold ! slav-
ery was at an end. I hope the spirit in
favor of peace may spread, and continue
spreading until at length the desired end
comes. It has been said that the move-
ment is premature; that the time for it is
not ripe; but with this I cannot agree. I
feel with the old gentleman who arrived
ten minutes before his train left, “There’s
not a mite too much.’ ”
	Held’s band gave a selection, and then
Dr. E.V. Silver read a set of resolutions pre-
pared by the Woman’s International Peace
Committee, endorsing the peace movement,
and, on motion of Mrs. E. B.
Wells, the resolutions were adopted by
a unanimous rising vote.

FRANK B. STEVENS.

	Frank B. Stevens quoted at some length
from an oration on “Peace” by Senator
Charles Sumner, delivered on Boston Com-
mon, July 4, 1845, in which the great
statesman urged upon the nation its duty to
take the lead in a movement in the inter-
ests of universal peace. “All men are
more or less combative in disposition,” he
said, “and if we must have peace we must
learn to overcome this spirit. Until, more-
over, we can learn to revere the man of
peace and place him on the same pinnacle
of public esteem that we place the man of
war, the day of universal peace will be de-
layed. But the best omen of the success of
the project now is that it has been so en-
thusiastically taken up by the women all
over the world. If women had been as far
advanced years ago as they now are, we
should not have had to wait until now for
the era of universal peace the world over.”
	Miss Maud May Babcock was then intro-
duced by Governor Wells. She read an
original poem by Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, en-
titled "The Day of Peace.’’

BISHOP WHITNEY.

	Bishop Whitney, who followed, started
with a quotation from Tennyson, contain-
ing a prediction of universal peace. He
said the poet was not the first to make such
a prophecy. The prophets of Israel, he de-
clared, foresaw and proclaimed such an ad-
vent in lofty and sublime language. Bishop
Whitney said the church militant had
something to answer for. The most
Christianized natives had rushed against
each other for war and conquest. The
civil war was cited as another example.
	The speaker thought peace could purify
as well as war, and that there must come a
time when all will sing with Richelieu:
‘‘Take away the sword; states can be saved
without it.” Continuing he said:
	“One may be pardoned for thinking, for
hoping that that time has already come,
when he hears that the Czar of all the Rus-
sias has submitted to the powers of the
earth a proposition for universal disarma-
ment. I care not what motive may be be-
hind it, whether it be the shrewd political
maneuvering of an ambitious autocrat,
seeking to gain time in order to better sub-
serve some scheme for future conquest and
expansion, or whether it be, as I fain
would believe, the pure desire of a Christ-
ian ruler, the head of the Greek church, to
realize the sacred prediction and anticipa-
tions of centuries. Be that as it may, it is

[Column 2]
a move in the right direction. All’s one, if
God be in it for man’s salvation.” 
	A quintette consisting of Miss Lennie
Savage, Miss Edna Dwyer, George Pyper,
Professor Goddard and Mr. Peterson then
sang Rudyard Kipling’s “Recessional."

MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS.

	Mrs. Emily S. Richards was the next
speaker. She said: “The peace question
is one of the most important problems that
this generation has met. Whenever it is
settled finally, the world will look to
America to take a part, and an active one.
Years ago much was said about an inter-
national tribunal for the arbitration of mat-
ters that involved the great nations of the
world. The indecision of the advocates of
this plan lay in the fact that they were not
agreed as to how cases should be conducted.
A permanent mixed tribunal would insure
fairness, but this is not exactly the idea of
those who see the necessity of forming a
a definite plan. There is an old saying
that Jesus by disarming Peter, disarmed
the world for all time. I am one of those
who hope the time is not far distant when
this will be the case.”

GEORGE M. CANNON.

	George M. Cannon was next introduced
by Governor Wells. “War is horrible,
but there are worse things or war would
not exist at all. To eradicate the evil we
must strike at the root.” The speaker re-
ferred to the sentiment so often expressed
by loyal Americans, “One country, may
she ever be right, but right or wrong, one
country,” and said that in his opinion this
is not a platform on which a man can stand.
	“If we would have permanent peace, we
must teach peace to our children. We
must insist that they draw the line be-
tween legitimate and illegitimate sport,
and make them understand that they are
not to enter a conflict where they will in-
jure their opponents. If we are to have
permanent peace, let us remember the
words of our first president, ‘hold out the
hand of friendship to all.’ By this plan we
can hold our place among the nations.
And in conclusion I will leave with you a
better sentiment than the oft quoted one
above: ‘Our country, may she ever be
victorious, but that she may let her always
be right.’ ’’

MRS. MARY A. FREEZE.

	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze was the last speak-
er. She made a very few remarks in which
she said she felt that we, as Christians,
ought to do all in our power to help on the
cause of peace. “Women are opposed to
war,’’ declared the speaker. “They are
unwilling to give up their dear ones. So
in behalf of all the women of the world,
who are assembled in the interests of peace,
I say: All hail, peace conference.”
	Mrs. E. B. Wells offered a vote
of thanks to all who had assisted the wo-
men in the work of arranging a peace
meeting. Her motion included those who
assisted with the music, Held’s band, whose
services had been donated for the occasion,
all committees who had worked for the
cause, and especially the press of the city.
	Mrs. Wells referred to the fact that in
seven other cities of the State the citizens
had assembled for the same purpose, and
deplored the fact that America had not
been the first nation to call for peace.
	The meeting closed with the singing of
‘‘America” by the entire audience.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEACE MEETING, AFTON, WYOMING.
	Meeting was called to order by President
Kittie E. Dixon. Singing "Behold the 
mountains of the Lord," ect. Prayer by
Counselor Johanna Cook. Singing, 
"Sweet is Thy work," etc. President
Dixon then announced that Elder Burton
would explain the principle of arbitration.
	Elder Burton said that the ladies the
world over were making their influence
felt in favor of the great peace movement.
We all should always be on the side of
peace. War has been a curse to the hu-
man race, bringing suffering and sorrow to
many a home, and if arbitration could take
the place of war in the settlement of diffi-
culties arising between nations, it would be
a step towards the millenium.
	President Dixon said that she endorsed
the remarks of Elder Burton; that she was
on the side of peace.
	Sister Annie R. Kenington said that she
was one with her sisters in the cause of 
peace. 
Counselor Burton said that much could
be said on the subject of peace. That the
Gospel taught us very differently from war,
dissension and strife.
	Sister Harmon said that she felt like
being one with the rest in offering up her
prayers for the influence of peace to take
the place of war and strife, which seemed to
have taken hold of the human family.
	Sister Harriet Cazier said that she was
certainly for peace. Said she thought that
the Lord had put into the mind of the
Czar to move in the interests of peace.
	Sister Child said that her constant prayer
had been for peace. She hoped the Lord
would bless the efforts made for peace.
	Sister Roberts said that this peace move-
ment brought to mind a quotation, “Blessed
are the peace makers.” She felt like mak-
ing an effort for peace with the rest.
	Sister Mary Peterson said that she felt
like those of her sisters who had spoken 
before-that peace was her desire.
	Elder Jensen said he felt like the sisters
who had expressed themselves in favor of
peace.
	Sister A. J. Call said she felt like adding
her mite with the rest of her sisters. Asked
the blessings of God upon this effort of 
peace. 
Sister Anderson said her feelings were
the same as the other sisters had expressed
themselves; that her prayers were in be-
half of peace.
	Sister Isabel Call said that she felt like
adding her mite in the cause of peace.
	Elder Moffat said he felt like adding his
mite and prayers with those of the previous
speakers.
	President Dixon then called a vote,
which was unanimous in favor of peace.
	Elder Burton said that some of the sisters
had carried the idea that they could do but
little in the cause, that probably we could
not, standing alone, but the ladies of all
the civilized nations united would have a
great influence in the support of arbitration.
	Singing, “The time is nigh,” etc. Bene-
diction by Mary Moffat. 
ALICE A. GARDNER, Asst. Sec.
	May 15, 1899.


THE Minister of Education of Saxony,
Germany, issued a decree on May 3rd that
hereafter all girls and young women attend-
ing the public schools at Saxony shall dis-
card corsets.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OLD AGE.

Fling down the faded blossoms of the spring,
	Nor clasp the roses with regretful hand;
The joy of summer is a vanished thing;
	Let it depart, and learn to understand
The gladness of great calm—the autumn rest,
The Peace—of human joys the latest and the best.

Ah! I remember how in early days
	The primrose and the wild-flower grew beside
My tangled forest paths, whose devious ways
	Filled me with joys of mysteries untried,
And terror that was more than half delight,
And sense of budding life, and longings infinite.

And I remember how, in Life’s hot noon,
	Around my path the lavish roses shed
Color and fragrance, and the air of June
	Breathed rapture—now those summer days are
	fled;
Days of sweet peril, when the serpent lay
Lurking at every turn of life’s enchanted way.

The light of spring, the summer’s glow, are o’er,
	And I rejoice in knowing that for me
The woodbine and the roses bloom no more,
	The tender green is gone from field and tree;
Brown, barren sprays stand clear against the blue,
And leaves fall fast and let the truthful sunlight
	through.

For me the hooded herbs of autumn grow,
	Square-stemmed and sober; mint and sage, 
Horehound and balm—such plants as healers.
	know;
	And the decline of life’s long pilgrimage
Is soft and sweet with marjoram and thyme,
Bright with pure evening dew, not serpents’ glitter-
	ing slime.

And round my path the aromatic air
	Breathes health and perfume, and the turfy
		ground
Is soft for weary feet, and smooth and fair 
	With little thornless blossoms that abound
In safe, dry places, where the mountain side
Lies to the setting sun, and no ill beast can hide.

What is there to regret ? Why should I mourn
	To leave the forest and the marsh behind,
Or towards the rank, low meadows sadly turn ? 
	Since here another loveliness I find,
Safer and not less beautiful—and blest
	With glimpses, faint and far, of the long wished-
		for Rest.

And so I drop the roses from my hand,
	And let fhe thorn-pricks heal, and take my way
Down hill, across a fair and peaceful land
	Lapt in the golden calm of dying day—
Glad that the night is near, and glad to know
That rough or smooth the way, I have not far to
	go.


[Column 1]
OUR DUTY TO THE WOMEN OF OUR
NEW POSSESSIONS.
BY REV. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER.
	[Read at the National Suffrage Convention at
Grand Rapids.]
	We owe sympathy and friendliness to all
men and women everywhere. Especially
do we owe these to the men and women
with whom we come into new relations
by the events of the past year. There is,
however, a peculiar debt America owes to
the women of our new possessions and ter-
ritorial relationships, and through them to
the family life, the social order and the de-
veloping political organizations of those
countries coming for the first time into vital
connection with our civilization.
	This debt is, first, the obligation to study
the present condition of the women in
those lands in the light of social evolution;
and, second, to adopt such measures of
government, and such alone, as will con-
serve the civilizing powers of womanhood
already at work among these peoples.
	Prof. Otis T. Mason, the author of that
important book, "Woman's Share in Prim-
itive Culture," tells us that "the longer
one studies the subject, the more he will be
convinced that savage tribes can now be
elevated chiefly through their women."

[Column 2]
	Why is this true? For the reason that
the savage is in the stage of social order
through which all civilized nations have
passed at some period, the stage of the
mother-rule more or less modified by par-
tial masculine domination. It is a well
known fact of human history and prehis-
toric record that the "Matriarchate," or
the mother-rule preceded the "Patriarchate,"
or father-rule. "All the social fabrics of
the world are built around women. The
first stable society was a mother and
her child." The reason why the primitive
descent of name and property, and the first
fixed stake of home life, was the expression
of this maternal relationship is obvious.
Motherhood was demonstrated by nature
before fatherhood was definitely known.
Inheritance of name by the female line was
alone possible; and that as well as the fe-
male holding and transmission of property,
was a family or tribe or clan relationship,
women always holding rule and wealth not
so much as individuals as custodians of
communal life and possessions. Not only
was the mother with the child the first
founder of human society, but the woman
in savage life was the first inventor and
originator of all life sustaining industries.
The archæologists prove to us that "the
division of labor began with the invention
of fire-making. Women stayed by the fire to
keep it alive, while men went to the field
or the forest for game. The world's indus-
trialism and militarism began then and
there." Man learned to be a fighter, a
slayer of animals and of his fellow men,
later an inventor of machinery, a ruler and
a priest. "Woman became the burden-
bearer, the basket-maker, the weaver, the
potter, the domesticator of animals, the
agriculturist, in a word, the inventor of all
the peaceful arts of life." We are indebted
to women for "the oven, the chimney
corner, the kitchen, the dining-room the
family room and the separate bed cham-
ber," in the later periods of industrial and
domestic order; and these all indicate by a
symbol the place woman has held in the
development of social life. Many savage
peoples are today, as Stanley shows us in
his book on Africa, in this period of the
mother-rule, when all the industrial arts of
peace are solely or almost exclusively in
the hands of women; and where the mother
and the child taking name and inheritance
from the mother only, are the only ele-
ments of social stability; and in which the
communal family wealth outside of imple-
ments of war and personal trinkets, is
chiefly if not wholly, under the command
of women as custodians of the family
possessions. We are not sure, but it seems
likely that some of the tribes, upon whom
our government is now laying violent
hands, are still in the matriarchate.
	The second great order of family and
tribal relationship was the "Patriarchate,"
or father-rule. This came gradually in the
course of natural progress. When man
and woman set forth together in the morn-
ing of time to subjugate and possess the
world, he began early to fight and to "out-
wit, she to conserve and elaborate the
fruits of victory." He became the ex-
plorer and wanderer, as for ages he was
not bound at all closely to the family life.
She, being bound, "settled down," and
drew around her all the fixed institutions of
society. He became the "dispersive ele-
ment; she the unifying element in society."
This made her possession of property, as we
have seen, a trusteeship for the common-

[Column 3]
wealth rather than a personal ownership;
but the things man owned and used, as
well as his freer way of life, tended from
the first to make him not only militant, but
strongly individualistic in his nature.
When man also began to "settle down,"
whether from personal choice or from social
pressure, when he, too, began to learn and
practise the industrial arts heretofore sole-
ly in the hands of women, he began to
press his more personal and individualistic
claims of recognition and of property own-
ing against the family wealth of which the
woman was the custodian. The Pueblo
Indians give us good examples today of
the transition period from the mother-rule
to the father-rule. Lummis says of them:
"The woman is complete owner of the
house and all it contains, except man's
personal trinkets; and if a husband ill-
treats his wife, she can permanently eject
him from the home, and will be sustained
in the act. She does the housework only.
He owns the fields from which their sus-
tenance is drawn; but she has an equal
voice with him in the disposition of the
crops after they are housed."
	As man more and more assumed the
burden of the world's industries outside the
home (which before had been woman's
care alone), and as woman became more
and more absorbed in purely domestic con-
cerns, man's individualism assumed greater
and greater power within the family life,
and he gradually acquired the despotic
family headship which marked the ancient
patriarchal order of Rome. This was not a
social descent, but an immense social uplift
in the age in which it was natural. Prof.
Mason says, and with profound truth,
"Matrimony in all ages is an effort to se-
cure to the child the authenticity of the
father." It was necessary for social growth
that offspring should have two parents in-
stead of one; that the division of labor
should be more equal, and man be fastened
to domestic needs by bonds he could not
break, and through labors that were peace-
ful as well as arduous. For that process
his individualism developed through ages
of free wandering and purely militant life,
must be not only tamed somewhat, but
harnessed to the home life. To accomplish
that mighty social uplift by which offspring
secured two parents instead of one, wo-
man's subjection to man was paid as the
price of the higher form of family unity.
Nor was her subjection to man in the ruder
ages wholly an evil to herself. It
has been said that "woman was first, the
wife of any, second the wife of many and
third one of many wives." Each of these
steps was an advance in her sexual rela-
tionship. All were stepping-stones to the
monogamic union which is the standard of
our civilization, and the realized ideal of all
our best and wisest men and women. Now
in the ages of unbridled lust and strife it
took all the power of man’s individualistic
ownership, his pride of possession and
fierce resentment of another’s intrusion up-
on his rights, to protect the husband’s
claim over one woman, that which could
alone make the "father’s authenticity"
perfect. And in that safety of her slavery
to one lay the protection of the wife and
mother from the degradation and outrage of
other men’s violence.
[To be continued.]


THE Woman's Journal of May 27 will
be published on Mrs. Howe’s 80th birthday
and will be a Julia Ward Howe number.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months. 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
		Address all business communications to

					Mrs E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

		Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
	second-class matter.

			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1899.


[Column 1]
AN IMPORTANT GATHERING OF WOMEN.

	The International Council of Women
will follow closely upon the International
Peace Conference of men.
	The women of this country, and of many
others also, sought to emphasize the peace
movement by holding simultaneous meet-
ings and passing Resolutions, recognizing
the efforts being put forth by the Czar and
other rulers to bring about a more harmon-
ious way of settling difficulties and differ-
ences.
	The International Council of Women
scarcely expect to move the world in such
a way as to cause disarmament, even gradu-
ally, though their influence is, and will be,
brought to bear in this direction, neverthe-
less the great Council and Congress about
to convene, will at least discuss the most
important questions of the age. The Pre-
amble to the Constitution of the Inter-
national Council reads as follows:

	We women of all nations, sincerely believing
that the best good of humanity will be advanced
by greater unity of thought, sympathy and pur-
pose, and that an organized movement of women
will best conserve the highest good of the family
and of the state, do hereby band ourselves in a
federation of workers to further the application of
the Golden Rule to society, custom and law.

	Objects set forth are in keeping with the
preamble:
	
	(a) To provide means of communication be-
tween women’s organizations in all countries.
	(b) To provide opportunities for women to meet
together from all parts of the world to confer upon
questions relating to the welfare of the common-
wealth and the family.

	As there seems to be much lack of under-
standing of the real foundation and machin-
ery of the Council, as also of the spirit and 
ideal, it is, therefore, appropriate and essen-
tial at a time when so many Utah women
are making preparations to go to London
and attend the sessions of the Council, that
a more general diffusion of its benefits
should be laid before the people.
	The EXPONENT of May 15th published
a long article furnished by May Wright
Sewall, who is perfectly familiar with the
aims, purposes and work of the National
Council of this and other countries, and the
International, with which they are affiliated.
	The International Council is not organ-
zed in the interest of any one propaganda,
and has no power over its members beyond
that of suggestion and sympathy, therefore
no National Council or body of women is
rendered liable to be interfered with in
respect to its complete organic unity, in-
dependence or methods of work, neither are
they committed to any principle or method

[Column 2]
of any other Council affiliated, nor to any
utterance or act of the International Coun-
cil, beyond compliance with the terms of
the Constitution.
	This great assemblage of women will
come together in some of the most noted
and popular places in London, in the Large
Hall, in Westminster Town Hall, in Coun-
cil Chamber, Westminster Hall; and other
places have been suggested for Congresses.
Many meetings will be going on at the
same time in different halls, as at the
World’s Congress in Chicago.
	Mrs. Sewall informs us that fifty-one
American women, are in some way con-
nected with the Council and with the Con-
gress, and expect to be present. Five of
these are Utah women, besides other Utah
women who will be present as members of
the great organizations with headquarters
here that are affiliated with the National
Council of the United States—viz: The
National Woman’s Relief Society and
Y. L. M. I. A.
	The ladies who expect to be in London
on this great occasion are Mesdames Lucy
B. Young, Emma Gates, Elizabeth Claridge
McCune, Jesse Knight, Susa Y. Gates,
Margaret A. Caine, Lydia D. Alder, Carrie
S. Thomas, Kate Thomas, Fay McCune,
Clara Holbrook, Mr. and Mrs. Miller and
Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	There may be others of whom we have
not heard; some of these have already started
East on their journey. It is certainly a
good showing from Utah, and does not
look as if the people were behind in desir-
ing intelligence, or going backward instead
of progressing.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Before the issue of another paper the
editor will be enroute for London to attend
the International Council of Women and
Miss Emeline Wells will take charge of the
office in her absence, attending to all de-
tails of the business. Miss Wells has been 
associated with the EXPONENT in past
years and is quite familiar with the routine
business of the paper. All letters should 
be directed hereafter, according to the editor-
ial heading—Mrs. E. B. Wells, Salt Lake 
City, Utah.

	Peace meetings were held in Orangeville,
Emery Co., and in Josepa, Tooele Co., be-
sides the eight already published. Minutes
of these will be given in June 15th, also
conferences and Ladies’ Semi-monthly
Meetings, a continuation of Mrs. Addison
Pratt’s Pacific Islands mission and the re-
mainder of Anna Garlin Spencer’s speech,
“Our Duty to the Women of Our New
Possessions,” and the program, etc., of
the International Council in London.

	President Snow’s party have made a tour
which will be an episode in the lives of
those they have visited during their visits 
to towns in the South. The people grow
hungry for the sight of those who hold
authority in the Church, and the welcomes
extended everywhere amounted to a public
ovation. The large assemblies, the music,
the flags, banners and brass bands, with
the troops of Sunday School children, all 
testified to the high estimation in which
the Saints hold their beloved leader and his
associates.

	The Peace meetings in Utah were certain-
ly successful in the object so far as numbers


and passing the resolutions were concerned.
In eight cities and towns the women planned
and carried into effect creditable meetings—
Salt Lake City, Ogden, Brigham City,
Logan, Provo, Nephi, Ephraim and Castle
Dale. The number of people in attendance
was over seven thousand, but in sending
cablegram to “The Hague,” where every
word counted, even signature and address,
we wrote: “American Delegation, The
Hague, seven thousand people voted peace
resolution. (Signed) Wells.” The Ameri-
can Committee at the Peace Conference re-
plied to the cablegram in these words:
“American Commission sincerely thanks
you for your kind message. (Signed)
White, President Holls—secretary.” The
answer was entirely unexpected and was
thoroughly appreciated, showing what
great courtesy American’s abroad accord to
their country-women. Utah was recognized
for the spontaneous response to the request
of the Woman’s Peace Committee.


QUEEN VICTORIA'S BIRTHDAY.
	London, May 24.—Torrents of rain
ushered in Queen Victoria’s birthday today.
Windsor, where a general holiday is being
observed, was decorated with flags and the
church bells were rung at 11 o’clock in the
morning. The weather cleared about 11
o’clock and a serenade by the Windsor and
Eton amateur choral societies was given in
the grand quadrangle of Windsor Castle.
	Sir Walter Parratt, the master of the
queen’s music and private organist to the
queen, wearing his official robes, conducted
the serenade from the steps of the queen’s
private entrance to the palace, just below
the oak room where the queen was break-
fasting. The Eton college volunteer
cadets marched into the castle grounds.
Behind the cadets were drawn up the rest
of the Eton boys and the Military Knights
of Windsor. The mayor and corporation
of Windsor, in their fullrobes of office, and
the borough magistrates were also present.
	The scene was picturesque. They all
sang the national anthem and the choir
gave the program comprising the late
Bishop of Wakefield’s Jubilee hymn, a four
part song, and two specially written mad-
rigals “To the Queen.” Finally the
Eton boys gave three lusty cheers in honor
of her majesty and the Duke of Connaught
came to one of the windows and thanked
those present in behalf of the queen, who
herself, looking to be in excellent health,
came forward and bowed repeatedly. Dur-
ing the afternoon the queen planted an oak
sapling on the east lawn of Windsor Castle.
She drove along Kenneth drive to the spot
and was assisted in the planting by the
Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. All the
royal family witnessed the ceremony. Her
majesty then continued her drive in the
direction of Frogmore.
	The Military Knights of Windsor pre-
sented an address to the queen at noon in
the corridor of the castle and received the
warm thanks of her majesty.
	A pretty incident was the presentation to
the queen this morning by each of her
grand and great grandchildren now at the
castle, of a tiny bouquet of flowers. These
descendants of her majesty, who wers deep-
ly touched, also kissed her. Her majesty
also attended the birthday service held at
the chapel Royal, St. James Palace.
	Birthday celebrations occurred through-
out the provinces. The ships in the differ-
ent ports were dressed for the occasion, and


the war ships were covered with bunting.
At Portsmouth there were reviews of the
regular troops, volunteers and naval birg-
ades, and the same ceremonies occurred at
the various arsenals and the garrison
towns.
	A telegram from Simla, the summer
capital of British India, records that im-
pressive queen’s birthday services there
were attended by the viceroy of India,
Lord Curzon of Kedleston, and the Indian
and military officials in full dress. Royal
salutes were fired. 
	Jos. H. Choate, the United States ambas-
sador, telegraphed his congratulations to
the queen, and her majesty sent a gracious
reply.
	The president has addressed the follow-
ing message to Queen Victoria on the anni-
versary of her birthday:
	“Executive Mansion, Washington, D. C.,
May 24.—To Her Majesty the Queen,
Windsor Castle. England:
	Madame: It gives me great pleasure to
convey on this happy anniversary the ex-
pression of the sentiments of regard and
affection which the American people cherish
towards your majesty, and to add the as-
surance of my own cordial respect and
esteem. May God grant to your majesty
and to the country under your government
many years of happiness and prosperity.
	‘‘WILLIAM MCKINLEY.’’


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. S. A. PEACE MEETINGS.

	Reports of demonstrations of women in
behalf of peace and arbitration are still com-
ing in to Mrs. May Wright Sewall, chair-
man, of the American branch of the Inter-
national Committee. Mrs. Sewall reports
up to date news from seventy-one meetings,
at which 30,482 women were actually pres-
ent. Some of the meetings were of a dele-
gate character, the delegates representing
and actual voting constituency sufficient to
bring the number endorsing the resolutions
to over ninety thousand.
	As the initiative of this movement was
taken up so late as April 16th this response
was very gratifying.
	The states in which meetings were held
are as follows: California, Utah, Minneso-
ta, Iowa, Kansas, Illinois, Michigan,
Indiana, Ohio, Georgia Pennsylvania,
Rhode Island, New York, Maine and the
District of Columbia.
	Among the meetings those held by col-
lege women at the University of Michigan
and the University of Chicago are among
the most interesting reported. The former was addressed by President Angel, who
gave his enthusiastic support to this wo-
man’s movement.
	In addition to the women’s meetings re-
ports have come to Mrs. Sewall from hun-
dreds of congregations whose pastors
preached on the subject on Sunday, May
14, and took the votes of their congrega-
tions afterwards. In New York City,
where Mrs. Mary Lowe Dickinson has had
charge of the demonstrations, very thorough
work is being done in meetings of the
individual organizations, where the resolu-
tions are endorsed after discussion. Twenty
six organizations in New York City have
thus endorsed the resolutions.
	The response indicated so much latent
interest and sympathy that Mrs. Sewall
has communicated to the Central Commit-
tee at Berlin a proposition for continuing
these meetings at intervals during the ses-
sion of the Congress at The Hague.


A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
“After the burden and beat of the day.
The starry calm of night;
After the rough and toilsome way,
A sleep in the robe of white.”
ELIZABETH ALMIRA WHITNEY LEWIS.
	Sister Elizabeth A. Whitney Lewis, who de-
parted this life May 12, 1899 at 6:15 p. m., at the
residence of her daughter, Sister Almira J. Merrill,
wife of Apostle M. W. Merrill, was a very dear
friend of the writer, and in the days of Nauvoo we
were intimately associated. It is with profound
sorrow, albeit mingled with satisfaction, that we
record her demise. She passed peacefully away
after much suffering, and no doubt an escort was
waiting to accompany her to the paradise beyond
the veil.
	In her early life when we were little girls we
attended the same Sabbath School, and later we
both joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, though Sister Elizabeth went to Nau-
voo first, and also came to the valley in 1847.
	Elizabeth A. Pond was born May 2, 1827, in
Hubbardston, Worcester Co., Mass. Her mother
was Almira Whitemore, her father was Stillman
Pond who was well known throughout Utah, one
of his sons is now president of the Pocatello Stake
of Zion. Her parents were in good circumstances
and gave their children excellent opportunities for
all the educational advantages then attainable.
Elizabeth attended school until she was sixteen.
The mother died in 1834 leaving four girls, of
whom Elizabeth was the eldest. Sometime after
the father married again and consequently moved
to New Salem, Franklin Co., in the same state.
All the girls had the greatest respect and love for
their stepmother.
	In the year 1841 the Gospel was brought to
New Salem and Brother Pond opened his large
and commodious house to the “Mormon” Elders,
and many of the branch raised up there were bap-
tized in the large brook on his farm. Elizabeth
was one of the first to obey the Gospel, and was
baptized by Elder Elias Harris, Dec. 9, 1841. In
September 1843 Brother Pond sold his possessions
in Mass, to cast his lot with the Saints in Nau-
voo. They traveled thither by team, reaching
that far-famed city, Dec. 7, 1843. Brother Pond
built a nice brick house next to Apostle Heber C.
Kimball’s, a home from which they were driven
by the mob in 1846.
	It was in Nauvoo that Elizabeth was married
to Bishop Newel K. Whitney, February 18,
1845.
	After leaving Nauvoo the family journeyed to
Winter Quarters on the Missouri river; one son of
Brother Pond’s died on the journey, the wife,
three daughters, one son (the only one left) in
Winter Quarters of chills and fever. Elizabeth
came to Utah with her father in 1847 in Captain
Edward Hunter’s company and lived in the Old
Fort in Pioneer Square.
	After the death of Bishop Whitney, Elizabeth
was married again to Beason Lewis, and in 1860
they moved from Salt Lake City and were among
the pioneers of Richmond.
	In 1854 Sister Elizabeth’s only remaining sister,
Sister Loenza (wife of Joseph C. Kingsbury)
died, and she took two of her girls and brought
them up as if they were her own. She had one
daughter of her own with whom she lived dur-
ing her later life, and who tenderly watched and
cared for her, and in her long period of illness
and suffering was her constant companion and
nurse, by night and by day. All that loving
hearts and hands could do was done to alleviate
her pain and minister to her wants.
	The funeral services were held in the Richmond
hall on Monday, May 15th. Prof. J. M. Tanner,
of Logan, Bishop Wm. H. Lewis, of Lewiston,
and Bishop Wm. Skidmore, of Richmond were
the speakers, and all testified of her sterling
qualities and strict integrity; her love for the good
and true, and her exemplary life. The floral
offerings were very beautiful.
	She leaves one daughter twelve grandchildren
and thirteen great grandchildren, a number of
brothers and sisters by her father’s later marriage
and a host of friends to mourn the loss of her
society, but they have her example of faithful
endurance, and “Blessed are they who endure to
the end.”
“Good bye—with latest breath we say it,
A legacy of hope, and faith and love;
Parting must come, we cannot long delay it,
But, one in Him, we hope to meet above,
If God be with us."
E. B. W.


OFFICERS AND RESOLUTIONS.
	The National American Woman Suf-
frage Association at its 31st Annual Meet-
ing, in Grand Rapids, Mich., May 3, 1899,
elected the following officers for the coming
year:
OFFICERS.
	President—Miss Susan B. Anthony.
	Vice-President-at-large—Rev. Anna Howard
Shaw.
	Corresponding Secretary—Mrs. Rachel Foster
Avery.
	Recording Secretary—Miss Alice Stone Black-
well.
	Treasurer—Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton.
	Chairman of the Committee on Organization—
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt.
	Auditors—Miss Laura Clay and Catharine
Waugh McCulloch.
RESOLUTIONS.
	The following resolutions were unani-
mously adopted:
	RESOLVED, That we reaffirm our devotion to
the immortal principle that governments derive
their just powers from the consent of the governed,
and we call for its application in the case of wo-
men citizens.
	We protest against the introduction of the word
“male” in the suffrage clause of the proposed
constitution of Hawaii, and declare that upon
whatever terms the franchise may be granted to
men, it should be granted also to women.
	In all the great questions of war and peace,
currency, tarif and taxation, annexation of fore-
ign territory and alien races, women are vitally in-
terested, and should have an equal expression at
the ballot box, and we recommend to the Presi-
dent of the United States the appointment of a
committee of women to investigate the condition
of women in our new island territories.
	We congratulate the women of Ireland who
have just voted for the first time for municipal
and county officers, and we call attention to the
fact that 75 per cent of the qualified women voted,
and that the dispatches say they discharged
their duties in a serious and businesslike spirit,
with a keen eye to the personal merits of candi-
dates.
	We congratulate the women of Colorado, whose
Legislature lately passed a resolution testifying to
the good effects of equal suffrage by a vote of 45
to 3 in the House and 30 to 1 in the Senate.
	We congratulate the women of New Orleans,
who are about to vote for the first time on a tax
levy for sewerage and drainage, and we commend
their patriotic activity in collecting the signatures
of 2,000 tax paying women of that city in behalf of
clean streets and a pure water supply.
	We congratulate the women of France who have
just voted for the first time for judges of tribunals
of commerce, and we call attention to the fact that
in Paris, of the qualified voters, men and women
taken together, only 14 per cent voted, but of the
women 30 per cent voted.
	We congratulate the women of Kansas on the
increased municipal vote of April, 1899, over the
entire State, Kansas City alone registering 4,800
women and casting over 3,000 women's votes at
the municipal election.
	We thank the representatives of Oklahoma for
their vote of 14 to 9, and the representatives of
Arizona for their vote of 19 to 5 for woman
suffrage, and regret that the question did not
reach the councils of these territories.
	We thank the Legislature of California for its
enactment with only one dissenting vote in the
House and 6 in the Senate, of a school suffrage
law which failed to receive the approval of the
Governor; also we thank the Legislature of Con-
necticutt and Ohio, which have defeated bills to
repeal the existing school suffrage laws of those
States.
	We thank the legislators of Oregon who have
just submitted an amendment granting suffrage to
women by a vote of 48 to 6 in the House and 25 to
1 in the Senate, and we hope that Oregon will add
a fifth star to our equal suffrage flag.
	This association is non-sectarian and non-parti-
san, and asks for the ballot, not for the sake of ad-
vancing any specific measure, but as a matter of
justice to the whole human family.
	In all the States where equal suffrage campaigns
are pending we advise women and men to base
their plea on the grounds clear and obvious justice,
and not indulge in predictions as to what women
will do with the ballot before it is secured.
	We protest against women being counted in the


basis of representation of State and nation so
long as they are not permitted to vote for their
representatives.
	We appreciate the friendly attitude of the
American Federation of Labor, the National
Grange and other public bodies of voters, as
shown by their resolutions indorsing legal, political
and economic equality of women.
	We rejoice in the Peace Congress about to
meet at The Hague, and hope it may be prelimin-
ary to the establishment of international arbitra-
tion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS. SEWALL’S ADDRESS.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall spoke on “The
True Civilization of the World.” She
said:
	In the new civilization the sense of
personal responsibility is strong; it respects
the child’s individuality, and also recognizes
the unity of all educational agencies—the
kindergarten, the school, college and uni-
versity.
	There is also a new theology, in which
individual conscience is substituted for the
dictates of authority, and which distin-
guishes between metaphysical doctrine and
practical principle. It seeks the higher
unity, all embracing.
	The new political economy recognizes
the right of the individual, and the body
politic as a body composed of units, each
one of which must be respected. Its whole
effort is to preserve the rights of employers
qnd to give equal recognition to those of
the employed; to unify all those classes
that have heretofore been kept divided.
	The new civilization results from all
these. The difficulties in realizing this
perfect unit all arise from selfishness. We
have long recognized that individual self-
ishness was a defect, but national selfish-
ness has been for a long time extolled under
the name of patriotism, and has gone on
cleaving great chasms between different
peoples. In the new civilization the indi-
vidual will recognize himself at his best in
his relation to the whole. The different
professions will recognize that what each
contributes is but a small ratio to what each
receives from the rest. The different
nationalities will recognize their respective
dignities in just the proportion in which
the whole must transcend any part. Then
humanity will exceed national feeling, and
the unity of the race will exalt the dignity
of the individual.
	Mrs. Sewall put in a plea for a cordial
welcome to the Czar’s disarmament con-
ference, which was warmly applauded.


PEACE MEETING AT PROVO.
	A peace meeting was held in the Taber-
nacle, Mrs. Mary John presiding.
	Services were commenced by the congre-
gation singing "America." President Ed-
ward Partridge led in prayer, after which
Eva Ward and Walter Whitehead sang
"Peace to the Dwelling."
	Mrs. John spoke a few words at the com-
mencement of the meeting, expressing her
desire that we shall soon have peace. 
	Mrs. William J. Knight read the peace
resolutions.
	President Reed Smoot from this point
took charge of the meeting. He gave a
brief address reviewing the call of peace.
	Mrs. Marilla Daniels, representing the
Relief Society, responded to the sentiment,
"Universal Brotherhood of Man."
	A duet, "Life's Rosy Morn," was
rendered by Messrs. George Burles and J.
J. Johnson. Mrs. Mary Boyden, represent-


ing the Woman's Christian Temperance
Union, answered to "Who Hath Wounds
Without Cause?"
	"The Principle of Non-resistance," was
spoken of by Mrs. L. H. Cannon, of the
B. Y. A.
	The Rev. J. E. Kirby responded to
"Will Peace Diminish Patriotism?"
	A quartette, "Just as God Leads," by
Misses Etta Farrer and Fern Cluff, and
Messrs. Ray Clayton and Walter Whitehead.
	Miss Alice Reynolds responded to "Is
Universal Peace Feasible?"
	"International Arbitration" was the sub-
ject of a talk by Miss Josephine Kellogg, of
the Nineteenth Century Club.
	"May Boys Fight or Must They Arbi-
trate?" was discussed by Mrs. Ida Dusen-
berry, of the Mother's Club, and Superin-
tendent Rawlins.
	The Rev. H. S. Goodwin gave the senti-
ment, "The Slaughter of Innocents."
	"Through Strife to Peace" was handled
by Mrs Sarah E. Eggertson, of the Sorosis
Club.
	The meeting closed by singing the song,
"Gloria."


PEACE MEETING, CASTLE DALE.
	The women of Castle Dale, Emery Co.,
met in the Social Hall, May 15, 1899, for
the purpose of responding to the call made
through the EXPONENT in regard to the
general peace movement.
	Mrs. Caroline Larsen, president of the
Relief Society, took charge of the meeting,
with Mrs. Kathinka Anderson as secretary.
	The object of the meeting was stated,
appropriate speeches were made in favor of
the peace movement. A committee was
chosen to draft a resolution, and the follow-
ing resolutions were read by the secre-
tary:
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas there has been an appeal made to the
women of Utah to participate in the Czar’s In-
ternational Peace Measure, which he suggested
through his letter to the nations’ rulers, and who
are to meet May 18th at The Hague, Holland, in
conference, for the purpose of establishing peace
among the nations by arbitration in place of rush-
ing to arms to settle difficulties among the nations
of the earth, therefore, be it
	RESOLVED, That we, the women of Castle Dale,
County, of Emery, fair State of Utah, heartily
endorse this measure, and pledge ourselves to use
all our influence in support of this move. Be it
further
	RESOLVED, That we do not endorse the present
procedure of settling difficulties among the nations,
because it destroys life, it causes sorrow and dis-
tress and leaves widows and fatherless children,
who mourn the loss of those who are slain; and
not only that, but very often pestilence and
famine follow in the wake of this carnage and
strife.
	The resolutions were unanimously sus-
tained by the vote of the house.
	A general good feeling prevailed.
CAROLINE LARSEN, Pres.,
KATHINKA ANDERSON Sec.


MRS. MARY A. LIVERMORE has just de-
stroyed the manuscript of a hundred and
twenty original poems written by her.
She is going over her papers and ruthlessly
burning up all her old compositions, essays,
and even the manuscript of her lectures. A
whole regiment of scrapbooks, full of her
written comments on the books that she
has read during the last half century, have
lately gone to feed her furnace fire, and
still the work of destruction continues.


A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
	In 1843, or thereabouts, several brethren
were sent by President Joseph Smith to the
Islands of the Sea; one of the men who as-
sisted in opening up this mission was Elder
Addison Pratt, who left his family, wife
and children for several years, during
which time the exodus from Nauvoo oc-
curred and the Latter-day Saints reached
this valley.
	Again in the fall of 1849, Elder Pratt
was called to go the second time to the
Society Islands, other Elders accompanying
him. His wife was a very strong-minded
woman and also strong in the faith of the
Gospel, but this second mission seemed al-
most more than she could endure, with
a family of children to provide for in those
early days of hardship and scarcity.
	Mrs. Louisa Barnes Pratt was an educated
woman, and had seen better days before re-
ceiving the Gospel and gathering with the
Saints, whose fate, in early days, seemed to
be mobbings and drivings and all kinds of
ill treatment from those whose faith was
different; but Mrs. Pratt kept a diary, and
afterwards put it in form intending to pub-
lish her life in a book; but, alas, before she
ever had the means necessary for publica-
tion she passed on behind the veil, leaving
the manuscript for her children and pos-
terity.
	Many readers of the EXPONENT will re-
member her articles in the early numbers
of the paper; always interesting and brist-
ling with good points. I have requested
the privilege from her daughters of perus-
ing her manuscript and using some chapters
in the EXPONENT. And now, when so
much is being said of women missionaries,
it seems fitting to recount something of
those who traveled long distances to carry
good news and the light of the Gospel to
far off lands, at a time when such facilities
for traveling as we have nowadays were
unknown.
	And now, let me inform our readers,
that Mrs. Pratt, from whose journal we
quote, was the cousin (once removed) of
Dr. Elvira S. Barney, so well known in
Salt Lake City and in Utah. This part of
her journal begins with a visit from Mrs.
Mary Ann Young, who came at a time
when Mrs. Pratt was much depressed in
spirit and borne down with the heavy re-
sponsibility of her family.

	On a certain day in the month of March,
1840, Sister Mary Ann Young called at
my house to inquire how I was feeling,
and whether I had any requests to
make of President Brigham Young. So
distracted were my thoughts I knew
not how to answer her. She asked, "Have
you a desire to go to your husband?" I
dared not say I had. So great was the
dread of such an immense journey, I
could not choose between the performance
of it without my companion on the way,
and another five years widowhood! I told
her Brother Tomkins had offered to take
us to California in case the Church decided
to send us to the Islands. As soon as she
heard that I saw she favored my going,
I regretted telling her. I trembled
terribly. Sometimes fearing that I might
be sent, and again that I might not. Could
I have received an affectionate letter from
my husband encouraging me to come, it
would have tranquilized my mind.


[Column 1]
	I found my spirit growing rebellious;
imagined my trials greater than any other
woman’s ever were. I imagined my com-
panion was glad to go from home because I
could not always manage to please him.
From the indulgence of that unhappy spirit
I suffered more than from all the privations
and poverty I had passed through. I laid
my cause before the Lord, and plead with
Him to let the day dawn, and the day star
arise in my heart! I besought the sisters
who pitied me to pray, which they did
with fervor and assurance, that all would
be over-ruled for my good.
	The April conference drew on; I knew
my fate would be decided. A thousand
miles travel over an unsettled country;
five thousand miles voyage at sea; to labor
among a people distinct from my own.
I saw there was but two ways; stand alone
and assume great self-reliance; be father
and mother to my children; create means to
sustain them; live crowded up in a Fort, a
complete mudhole in wet weather. If I
was sent to the Islands my daughters (the
older ones were nearly at a marriageable
age) must be taken from their associates to
a foreign land; for myself I would not de-
cide, but earnestly sought to know the mind
and will of the Lord. In conversation
with Dr. Willard Richards I remarked to
him, that were I an Elder I would never
consent to stay so long from my family;
that I would go, deliver my message as
speedily as possible and return to fulfill my
domestic obligations. He smiled, and
though he did not in words concur, I
knew he felt the justice of my sentiments.
I was between two great fires; which ever
way I turned I would encounter the flames.
I wrestled in prayer; my friends prayed for
me, and all their prophecies were that I
would go to the Islands of the Seas, to
join my companion. There I should be
blessed in teaching the children of nations,
whose minds were dark, to know and love
truth.
	In 1850, 6th of April, I attended Confer-
ence. I listened to the first discourses,
they were comforting. At length the ap-
pointments were given out. Brother T.
Tomkins was appointed to go to the Islands
and take Addison Pratt’s family. I heard
no more. An indescribable sensation per-
vaded my whole system. Several persons
were appointed to go with us, in whose
society I could not foresee much pleasure.
At intermission I went to President
Young’s. I talked with Sister Young, and
urged the promise I once had, that if I
went my sister should go with me. She
promised to use her influence, and the suc-
ceeding day my brother-in-law was ap-
pointed on the mission. I had thought if
that were done my mind would be relieved.
	I found I was mistaken. I now felt to
blame myself for my solicitations. She
had a pleasant home and was comfortable.
Her home must be sold to make the neces-
sary preparations. She was tranquil and
unmoved. A short time was allotted us to
make ready. I was extremely weak. My
good friends Holmes stood by me in every
time of trial. My daughters had all they
could to pay farewell visits and receive calls.
Sister Holmes kindly offered her assistance
to do everything that seemed burdensome
to me, thus proving herself a friend in time
of need. Sister Daniel Russell spent days
with me, aiding by her agreeable conver-
sation to strengthen and encourage me. I
disposed of various little articles which it
was impracticable to take with me, which

[Column 2]
gave me great pain to part with. Some of
these were curiosities my husband brought
from the Islands; dear to me beyond de-
scription. The circumstance attending the
disposal of them occasioned me a reproof,
the most cutting I ever received in my life.
	I betrayed a childish spirit, owing to the
great weakness of my mind at that time.
The person did not understand my situation;
it was not in my power to maintain that
dignity and self-control that the friend had
expected of me. My friend, Sister Holmes,
deeply sympathized and felt that I was un-
justly reproved. I told my grief to Sister
John Taylor; she tried to soothe me and
heal my wound; but, ah! my heart was
sore! The dear woman had discovered my
anguish and entreated me to confide my
secret to her. I loved her from that hour.
The hearts of many seemed open to assist
me. I saw a rising interest in my welfare.
Homes were offered my eldest daughters if
they would remain with the Church and let
their mother go, but all the generous offers
were unheeded by them. The novelty of
the journey and the prospect of meeting
their father prevailed over every other con-
sideration. I was very successful in ob-
taining supplies for the tour by land; in
San Francisco we were assured we should
find liberal-hearted brethren, who would fit
us out for the sea voyage. May 27th left
the Old Fort. We sold our adobe room
for $25.00. Started at 5 o’clock after a day
spent in bustle and excitement; buying,
selling, parting with friends, giving and re-
ceiving gifts. With great reluctance I
bade them farewell. True friends have
they been to me, tried and proven. I
thought in the morning it would be impos-
sible to get my goods packed to start; they
were tumbled in without order, and when
the last article was deposited I felt a thous-
and pounds weight roll from my heart and
shoulders. Sister Glover had presented me
with some tea in a glass jar, it was set
loose in a trunk not locked. The trunk
was placed on a large chest in front of the
wagon. All unconcerned we let the wagon
start. Down went the trunk, every thing
fell on the ground, the jar broke, and be-
hold, all my tea was spilt in the sand! I
did not think it worth a moment’s thought
compared with the great things in contemp-
lation. We made a call at President
Young’s, found supper ready. We partook
of their hospitality, and Brother Young
blessed me. He said I was called, set
apart and ordained to go to the Islands of
the Sea, to aid my husband in teaching the
people. That I should be honored by
those with whom I traveled, that all my
wants should be supplied. That no evil
should befall me on the journey, that I
should lack nothing. I should have power
to rebuke the destroyer from my house,
that he should not have power to menace
any of my family; that I should do a good
work and return in peace; many other
things, all of which he sealed upon my head
in the name of the Lord. I thanked them
for all their loving kindness, bade them
farewell, and we drove to the warm springs
and stopped with Brother William Hen-
dricks. Some of the friends came with us
there and spent the evening. We were
kindly entertained, and the following day a
company of young people traveled fourteen
miles with us. We called and spent the
night with those who had been our bene-
factors in troublous times. The good old
people Parish and wife loaded us with
blessings, shed tears at the remembrance of

[Column 3]
our past sufferings and prayed, earnestly
that we might be protected on pur long
journey till we should reach in safety the
desired haven. Brother Jonathan Holmes had
just then moved into that settlement. He
came to me and said, “Have I everything
done as you wished me to do, and can you
carry a good report to Brother Pratt of my
faithfulness?” I answered him he had
done all and more than I could have pre-
sumed to ask, and I prayed that blessings
might follow him all his days; and I knew
Brother Pratt would say, amen!
[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TENTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	Minutes of the 20th anniversary of the
10th ward Primary Association, held May
15, 1899.
	Superintendent B. Howarth presided.
Meeting opened by singing, “Little Chil-
dren Love the Savior.” Prayer was offered
by Brother Joseph Keddington; and the chil-
dren continued by singing, “God Will
Bless the Pure In Heart.” Minutes of the
last annual were read and approved.
	The following program was rendered:
The Primary address, by Rasmus Borg-
quist. Organ, solo by Mamie Russell.
Recitation by fifteen little boys, about the
First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles.
Story about the “Liahona, or the Miracu-
lous Brass Ball,” Ethel Symons. Dia-
logue, “Which Would You Rather Be?”
by six little girls from the Kindergarten
class. Song by Celia Harrison, Alice
Keddington, Arzella Symons and Flora
Meyerhoffer, “Island of Dreams.” Brief
sketch of the Primary Association, by
Myrtle Rackham. Song, “Forbid Them
Not,” by the children. Recitation by
Nellie Howarth. Song, “Busy Little
Blacksmith,” by the Kindergarten class.
Story about “Honesty,” by Hattie Woods.
	President Cobb then spoke to the Pri-
mary, saying she was pleased with the pro-
gram and could almost prophecy of the
future in the 10th ward. She said that the
little boys and girls would grow up to be
presidents and active members of the differ-
ent associations of the ward and Church.
Said this was our 20th anniversary, and
she had been engaged in the Primary work
for eighteen years. The officers and teach-
ers working with the children always had
a good spirit, for they were working with
pure little children. She was proud of our
meeting and of our attendance, which is
the largest in this Stake of Zion. Was
pleased to see so many parents present, as
it gives encouragement to the teachers.
Asked the Lord to bless us in the future as
he had in the past.
	The Articles of Faith were repeated by
Celia Harrison.
	Sister Lydia Ann Wells was highly
gratified with our Primary. She had visit-
ed many associations and did not know of
any better, and few that were as good as
ours. Said there was much expected of
the children, and felt to rejoice and ask the
Lord to bless us year by year in all things.
	Sister Mary L. Morris told the children
the story of King Ahab.
	Bishop Adam Spiers thought the chil-
dren had been kept here some time and
were tired, and did not want to detain
them, although he could speak for some
time. Said it did not seem twenty years
since the organization of our Primary, and
those who had been in the Primary a few
years ago were now grown and going to


other associations, and most of them were
still faithful Latter-day Saints. It
was a grand work, and required a constant
labor, care and patience on the part of the
officers. We have been improving from
the day the association was organized, and
felt to thank and ask the Lord to bless Sis-
ter Howarth and her assistants and aids for
their labors.
	Sister Julia C. Howe, one of the Stake
aids, said this was an exceptionally good
Primary, and we did our president and aids
credit. Hoped our ambitions might be led
to do that which is right and the guardian
angel might be our constant companion,
that we would be faithful in attending to
our prayers, paying our tithing and re-
sponding to all that is required of us; and
as you grow up remember the
truths received in Primary.
	Meeting closed by singing, “Closing
Hymn.” Benediction was pronounced by
Brother C. W. Symons.
	After the meeting was over President
Howarth requested the people to stay, and
refreshments were served to about 350
parents and children.
				Eva Symons, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. held its regular meet-
ing in the office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Saturday evening, April 29, 1899.
	Opening prayer by Dr. Romania B.
Pratt, after which the secretary called the
roll, responses being given by quotations
from Mrs. Heman’s poems. The corres-
ponding secretary then read two communi-
cations, one from Mrs. Randall of Ogden,
the other from the U. F. W. C. asking
our club to take the initiative step
in calling together the representatives of
the Salt Lake clubs to pursue some line of
educational work which will benefit the
schools of our city. A motion was made
by Mrs. Wells and seconded by Mrs. Freeze
that a special meeting for this purpose be
called, the EXPONENT office being the
place, and the time, Thursday, May 11,
3 p. m. Carried.
	Mrs. Clark then read an interesting
poem, followed by a well prepared talk on
the scenery in southern Utah. “Indian
Customs” by Mrs. M. A. Freeze. Dr. R. B.
Pratt read Mrs. Rhodes’ paper on “The
Cliff Dwellers,” dainty refreshments were
served and a pleasant social hour enjoyed
by all present. The meeting then ad-
journed.
			AIMEE C. SCHILLER, Sec. 
		SPECIAL MEETING.
	Pursuant to a call from the U. W. P. C.
the representatives of the different clubs
met in the EXPONENT office, Thursday,
May 11. The object of the meeting was
to decide upon some line of educational
work in the clubs that would benefit the
schools of our city. Mrs Lydia D. Alder
presided, Mrs. Aimee C. Schiller was
secretary.
	Miss Adella Snow for the Reviewers said
they would leave it to the discretion of the
educational committee. They were willing
to co-operate with other clubs, especially
interested in kindergarten work and sanita-
tion.
	Mrs. Windsor, of the Woman’s Club,
stated that her club contemplated starting
another free kindergarten, to be under the
care and supervision of members of club.
[Column 2]
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, of the Press Club,
reported that the club was willing to do
whatever seemed best. Pictures might be
given to brighten and beautify the school
rooms, but in her opinion the sanitary con-
ditions were most necessary.
	Mrs. Sarah Stewart, representing the
Author’s Club, said all the members of the
club were deeply interested in kindergar-
ten work, but lack of time prevents them
from taking many active steps.
	Mrs. R. G. McNeice, of the W. C. T. U.,
desired that the work assigned to her club
be the distribution of temperance literature
in the schools. A motion was made and
carried that her club be instructed to under-
take this noble work.
	Mrs. J. C. E. King, of the Ladies’ Liter-
ary Club, stated that their work in the edu-
cational was chiefly in the kindergarten
line.
	The other representatives, of the Cleofan
and Reaper's, all agreed that kindergarten
work and sanitation should be the first
steps to be considered. Each club agreed
to take in charge one or two schools of the
city, and investigate so as to be able to re-
port at the fall meeting. The meeting then
adjourned sine die.
				AIMEE C. SCHILLER.


THE PEACE CONFERENCE.
	The Hague, May 20.—The second sit-
ting of the Peace Conference took place
this morning and lasted thirty-five minutes.
	The president of the conference, Baron
De Staal, read the replies of the Czar and
Queen Wilhelmina to the telegrams sent
them by the conference on Thursday.
	M. De Staal announced today that the
government of the Netherlands would give
an artistic fete on June 16, in honor of the
conference.
	Several of the chief delegates are leaving
The Hague for a few days, pending the
preliminary work of the commission.
Baron De Staal, during the course of the
day, received the following dispatch:
	“The emperor begs you to be the interpret-
er to the conference of his sincere thanks
and warmest wishes.
	“My august master charges me to im-
press upon your excellency how much his
majesty is touched by the telegram ad-
dressed to him.
"MURAVIEF."


MRS. CORNELIUS STEVENSON is one of a 
committee of three appointed to arrange for 
a representation of the University of Penn-
sylvania at the Paris Exposition in 
1900.
MRS. HANNAH J. BAILEY, Superintendent 
of the Department of Peace and Arbitration, 
the officers of the National W. C. T. U. 
and the presidents of all the state W. C. T.
U.’s, has sent letters to the members of 
the Peace Conference voicing their appre-
ciation of the peace sentiments expressed by 
the Czar, and praying that effectual means 
may be found for bringing about and 
maintaining universal peace. 
IN a few days the women of Baltimore 
will present to Admiral Schley an album 
and a beautiful silver service, consisting of 
six pieces—cream jug, sugar bowl, teapot, 
urn, slop jar and water pitcher. On the 
bottom of each piece will be engraved the 
initial "S." Each piece is made from a


special design, which is to be destroyed, so
that there will be no reproduction of it.
The engraving on the various pieces is said
to be a splendid specimen of repouseé
work. The album has two covers, the
outside being of kangaroo leather, on
which is inscribed, in silver letters, “Win-
field Scott Schley, 1899.” On the inside
cover, which is of white satin, is the in-
scription, “Winfield Scott Schley, Rear
Admiral, United States Navy, 1899." The
album is of white satin, lined with blue
satin.


Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah. 
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts. 
The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW. 
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said 
interest four times a year. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier 
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street. 

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail 
Cash House. 
R.K. THOMAS 

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD. 

TIME TABLE IN EFFECT MARCH 19, 1899.
ARRIVE. 
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis, Kansas City 
	and Denver...........................................................3:30 a.m. 
From Ogden, Cache Valley, Portland, Butte and San
	Franscico.......................................................8:55 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha and Denver 3:05 p.m.
From Ogden, Cache Valley and San Francisco...........7:20 p.m.
**From Frisco, Milford, Sanpete and intermediate 
	points...........................................................................9:35 a.m.
From Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points.............6:30 p.m.
*From Tooele and Terminus.......................................6:00 p.m.
DEPART. 
For Ogden, Park City, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, Kan-
	sasCity and St. Louis................................................7:00 a.m. 
For Ogden, Cache Valley and intermediate points.....8:00 a.m.
**For Tintic, Mercur and intermediate points............7:30 a.m. 
For Ogden, Denver, St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco 6:40 p.m. 
For Ogden, Butte, Portland, San Francisco...................9:45 a.m. 
**For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and Frisco....................5:30 p.m.
*For Tooele and Terminuus...........................................7:45 a.m.
	**Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
	*Daily except Sunday. 
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall,
Second South Street. 
S. W. ECCLES, D E. BURLEY, 
Gen. Traffic Manager. Gen. P. and T. Agent 
W. H. BANCROFT. 
Vice President and Gen'l Manager.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

