Vol. 28. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1899. No. 11.


CONTENTS.
From Summer Land . . . . . . . L. S. Dickinson	65.
Farleigh Castle . . . . . . . . . . . Lydia D. Alder		65.
A Woman Missionary . . . Mrs. Addison Pratt	67.
R. S. Report—Wayne Stake . . . . . . . . . . . . .	.	69.
Reaper’s Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . Julia A. Druce	70.
Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting . J. S. Woolley	70.
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . J. F. S.	71.
Deborah Sampson—A Woman of the Revolution
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alice Burke	71.
EDITORIAL:—Visit to Stratford on-Avon . . .	68.
	Gone to Her Rest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	69.
	Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	69.
POETRY—Love’s Sympathy . . Ellis R. Shipp	65.
	Motherhood . . . Charlotte Perkins Stetson	67.
Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


LOVE’S SYMPATHY.
It came in the mists of the morning,
	With whispering mystical voice,  
It tapped at my door in the dawning,
	And bade me awake and rejoice.

Twas music of exquisite sweetness,
	Like cadences singing above;
It enrapt my soul in completeness,
	This heavenly message of love.

It breathed of a time in the future, 
	When discord and turmoil should cease; 
And through all the world there should
		usher,
	A reign of most infinite peace.

When love with electrical swiftness,
	Should thrill every wavering soul,
Cast malice from out of their fortress, 
	All sorrow and sin to control.

True sympathy binding together,
	The rights of each nation and land;
When man shall meet man as a brother,
	And humanity work hand in hand.

When the leaven of peace in its grandeur,
	Shall bring all our souls to one shrine,
To worship for ever and ever,
	One Being—our Father Divine ! 

					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
FROM SUMMER LAND.
Dear Friend: 
	Your letter took some time in making its
intermountain journey, but finally reached
me in this, the land of the “fig and the
vine,” while I sat almost buried in roses,
thinking of my many friends in dear old
Salt Lake. Knowing that they were shiver-
ing around their firesides instead of swing-
ing in the hammock under the orange trees,
made me all the more thoughtful of them,
because I do so hate the cold.
	I am going to Los Angeles in a few
days for the winter, but at the present time
I am visiting with friends in this country
town, in fact we are two miles from the
town, but it is all like town, though the
houses are quite scattered. We drive for
miles and miles and see nothing but orange,
lemon, fig, prune, pomegranate and all
kinds of useful trees, as well as every kind
of fancy tree that is supposed to grow in a
country where it is summer all the year
around. The streets, or roads, are all laid
off with the precision that would be used

[Column 2]
in arranging the pass ways of a city, but
there are no blocks. It is all miles, quarter
or half miles. There are no fences any-
where, and when one wants fruit or grapes
to eat, he just walks into the other fellow’s
orchard and helps himself, and at the same
time, he is welcome to all the roses he cares
for. With my love for roses, you can
imagine I have not neglected many oppor-
tunities of that kind, and it having been
the dream of my life to spend a winter in
Southern California, you can imagine what
it is for me to read of the cold weather else-
where, then turn, first to the quantities of
roses that my friends provide me with, and
then look out and see the orange trees laden
with green fruits, and, at the same time,
see the spring making its appearance in the
lilac buds, and the rose-bushes and other
shrubs putting out their fresh, tender twigs
for the new bloom.
	The roads are all lined on either side
with beautiful trees, palms, roses and olean-
ders, so you can imagine what an after-
noon’s drive is, The homes are all com-
fortable and many of them elegant. At first
it seemed strange to see no grass anywhere
except a patch in front of each house. The
saying that “orange raising and culture
goes together” is a true one, for I find that
while the people all live on ranches, they
forget not the higher duties to their children,
that is, to cultivate the mind as well as the
land. There are, of course, no sidewalks,
but each child has a ‘wheel,” and while
he may live several miles from the school,
he does not look upon that as a reason for
being absent.
	One day my friends drove me out to visit
one of the largest canning factories in the
state, where some five hundred or more
men and women find steady employment in
the fruit season. It costs between five and
six thousand dollars per day to keep up the
running expenses of the factory. I have
forgotten how many tomato cans they filled
the day we were there, but they soldered
three thousand every ten minutes, labeled
ten thousand in six minutes and loaded a
railroad car in less than twenty minutes.
Quick work, eh?
	Another day we visited a winery where
the owner raises miles of grapes, and when
they are hauled in, in big wagons, the juice
streams out of every crack in the wagon
bed as the men shovel them into the press
with shovels something like your snow
shovels, only larger. I saw dozens of wine
vats that held from six hundred to one
thousand gallons.
	I am visiting where there are five lovely
boys that range in age from fourteen to
twenty-six, and they have all done much
to make my visit an enjoyable one, and
they have not failed in the attempt. One
day last week they arranged a rabbit hunt
for my pleasure. At first they were not
satisfied with their success, and when I
caught them out of my sight I slipped an
old shoe in the box where they put their
game, at the bottom of the carriage. I
drove the horses and sometimes the boys
shot the rabbits from the carriage. We
drove through the orange groves, where

[Column 3]
the boys killed several “cotton tails,” then
we drove out on the remnant of the desert,
that lay between us and the mountains that
are only six miles to the east of us. I flat-
ter myself that the old shoe had something
to do with the final success of the hunters,
as they killed seven “cotton tails” and six
“jacks” and got back home in two hours
and a half; but, man-like, they said they
would have had twice that many.
	I suppose you will be surprised when I
tell you I have learned to ride a wheel
since I came here, and I am not going to
leave until I have climbed up to the top of
the wheel track and rode down. The
avenue is twice as wide as the Salt Lake
streets. On either side of the avenue is a
line of orange and lemon trees, and the
centre is parted with a double row of the
most beautiful shade trees you could im-
agine, and between each tree there is a
large palm tree, and in the centre is the
white track. The avenue is six miles long
and the good riders coast their wheels from
the top to the bottom without a stop or a
turn. 
	In the three weeks that I have been here
have had more pleasure and seen more of
the country than the ordinary traveler
would see in that many months, because I
have not confined myself to the cities and
railroad towns. This is not the season of
the orange blossom or the rose, still I have
always quantities of both in my room, and
will send you an orange blossom to remind
you of me. Love to old friends.
		(MRS.) L. S. DICKINSON.
	Ontario, Cal., October 17, 1899.


FARLEIGH CASTLE.
	Learning there were some ruins of note,
namely, Farleigh Castle, in Somerset, at
the close of a warm, sunny day in July,
comfortably seated in a Goveness (a four
seated conveyance in which two can sit on
a side) with an agreeable driver, we set out
for this far-famed castle.
	The sun was gradually sinking in the 
west; cool breezes fanned us, as we drove
briskly along. The sturdy little pony
worked with right good will, quickly get-
ting over the smooth, hard roads.
	Often I had heard of the Green Lanes of
England, and her abundance of buttercups
and daisies. Now here they were, butter-
cups and daisies, daisies and buttercups.
Everything so trim, hedges regular, and, for
the most part, well dressed. So much more
lovely than the board fences, or barbed
wire that enclose our own farms. Every-
thing here speaks of order, industry and
care-taking.
	Passing along, an old stone house of
rather large dimensions, was pointed out as
not being inhabited for years, the reason
being that long ago a young girl had
drowned herself and was brought from the
Thames river to this house, and was buried
from there, her stepmother not allowing
her to be brought home. It was the old
story of parents interfering in matters of
the heart. The mother of the young man


[Column 1]
causing him to go away that the attachment
might be thus broken up. The morning
that he left for other lands, she went to the
river and drowned herself. These things
should never occur in our day of common
sense.
	But here we are at the bottom of Farley
hill. Getting out we slowly ascend the
grand archway leading into the castle, al-
most tottering into decay, but, no doubt,
supported by the luxuriant ivy, that is
grown and interwoven through and over it
all.
	The castle in the days of its glory must
have been an immense structure. One por-
tion stands, in which are three fire places,
on as many different sides, which must 
have been rooms.
	In the upper story of this also, the ivy is
dense and twining it all around. One
more entrance, which might have been a
grand door once, on the opposite side, is all,
except portions of walls, that is left of the
castle. The church, a little lower down,
still stands in a fair degree of preservation,
being inside and beyond the castle. Enter-
ing (the guide at the door for the fee) we
see more armor and helmets than I have 
seen anywhere else, hanging all over the
walls. It must be Norman armor, as the
church is certainly Norman, and was built
in the 11th century. The stained glass
window over the altar, though somewhat
worn, is not nearly so grand as those of more
modern churches. While the pictures are
beautiful, they are much smaller than any
others that I have seen.
	On a stand in front of the altar is an old 
Bible whose letters, though English, al-
most look like some foreign characters. It 
is in a glass case under lock and key. On 
one of its open pages its history is briefly
told in writing:
	This is a copy of the First Edition of Barker’s
folio, authorized version, and was printed in 1611.
The Edition is known as the Great “He” Bible,
from a printer’s error, at Ruth III, 15th verse:
“He went into the citie,” instead of “She went,”
&c. This book has been much mutilated by visitors
to the building abstracting sheets and otherwise
defacing it. Being in a dilapitated condition, it
was re-sown in March 1899, and is now placed 
under lock and key.
	The castle formerly belonged to the noble
Hungerford family, who, no doubt, were
Normans. The arch is Norman, as also
the baptismal font in the church.
	Two chairs that belonged to the chapel,
black almost with age, still are there on
either side of the chancel; also an altar
of like wood and design, all being magnifi-
cently carved in curious characters. Christ 
hanging on the cross, with candlesticks on
either side, where the candles have been 
long removed.
	The pulpit is almost intact, save a hole in
its top where a stone from the ceiling
came crashing through. A copy of a letter
said to be the handwriting of Oliver Crom-
well is shown.
	The tombs are those of the Hungerford
family, inscriptions being in Latin. Trans-
lated one reads: “Here lieth Thomas
Hungerford, Knight, Lord of Farley, Wil-
low and Haytesburg, who died 3rd Decem-
ber, A. D. 1398. On whose soul God have
mercy. Amen.”
	Walter Hungerford was the personage
celebrated during the reign of Elizabeth, as
the rural and hospitable knight of Farley
Castle. The maxim, “Time trieth truth,”
appears to have been his favorite adage.
	On another tomb is written in Latin:

[Column 2]
“Here lieth * * * chaplain of the perpetual
Chantry, founded at the Altar of the Blessed
Virgin Mary, by Walter Hungerford, Lord
Hungerford * * * who died the 5th * * *
on whose soul may God have mercy.
Amen.”
	The stone was raised a few years ago,
and the skeleton of a young man, with
teeth quite perfect, was discovered. Time
is slowly doing its work of decay. Even
the helmets have large holes forming in
them. There are many spears as well as 
breast plates.
	A pew that belonged to the ancient
church, is about six feet long and nine
inches wide, carved into chairs for each
person. One could not think of the wor-
shippers of those days going to sleep in
such a pew as that. I think it would take
him all his time to keep in it.
	The place is damp, green on the steps
leading down to it. This is only one of
the instruments used to carry out the de-
cree, “All things shall perish.”
	The Mausoleums are very finely sculp-
tured, these being in the inner Chantry,
and others near the channel. The full 
features are fine and clearly cut, showing
the gentlemen much as they are today, and
the ladies beautiful and delicate. I looked 
over the moat of the old castle, and was
told that the water for it used to come from
seventy miles away.
	A visit to the crypts, whose steps were
green with moss. Looking through the
bars, the leaden coffins, some large and
some small, meet the eye. A chill as of
death was about the place. After peering
into the semi-darkness and discovering that
the coffins looked like stone, sunken in the
middle as the bodies crumbled to dust, we
hastily sought the clear open air, leaving
the dampness, darkness and death with a
shudder.
	In the city of Frame, not far distant, is a 
very old church; originally it was Saxon,
built by S. Aldheine, probably on this site,
about the year 680, A. D. It has been
altered and restored many times. First in
the 12th century, during the reign of
Stephen. The north and south doorways
and porches of the present church were
built then, also the doorway in the Ladye
Chapel.
	In the 13th century the Chapel Arch, the
tower and arcade of the nave, as far as the
porches, and probably the walls of the nave
were built. 
	In the 14th century, the western portion
of the arcade, the remainder of the isles 
and the west font was added.
	In the 15th century the roof of the nave
was raised, the clestory added, the tower
raised and a roof loft constructed.
	The Ladye Chapel was originally built in
the reign of Stephen, rebuilt in the reign of
Edward III, and restored during the in-
cumbency of Rev. Bennett. The Chapel
of St. John the Baptist, on the north side
of the choir, was founded in 1337, but is 
now used as an organ chamber.
	The Chapel of St. Andrew, on the south
side of the choir, was founded in 1412. It 
was restored in 1844 in memory of Bishop 
Ken.
	The Chapel of St. Nicholas, near the
north porch, was founded in 1517, the latest
portion of the whole church now used as
the baptistry.
	The restoration was begun in the year
1852, and completed in 1866. On a brass
plate on the door many of the names given

[Column 3]
above are inscribed; also “Glory be to God
alone in Christ.”
	There are many objects of interest. Old 
carved stones in the east wall of the belfry,
with some images at the west end. S.
Aldheine, the founder, S. Alban, the pro-
martyrs of England. S. Andrew, the patron
of the Diocese, and S. George, the patron
of our country.
	The windows of the nave illustrate the
life and death of St. John the Baptist; also
illustrations of the life of St. Nicholas, in
the lower compartments.
	The window of the St. Andrew’s Chap-
el includes a kneeling figure of Bishop
Ken, and a representation of the Bishop
entertaining numbers of poor persons at
his weekly feast. The east window is
very beautiful indeed, and illustrates the
sufferings of Christ which ended in the 
crucifixion; a picture of St. John the
Evangelist, with a caldron of oil; also
some of the miracles of Christ. These
windows throw such a hallowed light
through the church, that one stands with a 
feeling of awe, looking upon them and the
scenes they portray.
	This is a Church of England, but it is
called High Church, the incense burning
day and night in six red glass censers. The
confessional is being introduced, or re-
established again, leaving only the celi-
bacy of the priests to be Roman Catholic as
before, and to that church the Church of
England is rapidly tending; and not many
years hence, it looks as though it would be
swallowed up in the Catholic Church.
	These red censers are being brought
from Rome, and are to be seen in many of
the churches now. 
	Outside under the east window, is Bishop
Ken’s grave, also the late Vicar’s. A stone
wall encircles the upper side from the 
church which gradually slopes down to the
street in steps or terraces. On each terrace
is a scene from the life of Christ cut out in
stone, the figures standing boldly out from
the background. Cradled in the manger,
the flight into Egypt, teaching the doctors
in the Temple, calling His disciples, the
Sermon on the Mount, His agony in
Gethsemane, His betrayal, trial before
Pontius Pilate, then carrying the cross, one
picture where he stumbled beneath the
weight of it, where He sank down, then
where Stephen carries it to Calvary. These 
scenes are strikingly portrayed where he
stumbled and sunk down is particularly
touching. Then the scene of the cruci-
fixion: it is a beautiful theme, and the soul
of the artist is stirred within him.
	All around the church are numberless
dead of long years ago The town is built 
up all around the church and the bustle of
life goes steadily on, with scarcely a
thought of the sleepers just beside it. Un-
told numbers of England’s dead sleep in
the cities and towns, so long ago some of
them passed to the other life, that the
letters cut in stone have become obliterated
by Time, whose unerring finger points to
the end of all things earthly. Who shall
name them? The breeze as it sighs among
them, whispers “Who?”
	Trowbridge, July, 1899.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THAT only can with propriety be styled 
refinement which, by strengthening the 
intellect, purifies and perfects the man-
ners.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MOTHERHOOD.

Motherhood: First mere laying of an egg
With blind foreseeing of the wisest place, 
And blind provision of the proper food
For unseen larva to grow fat upon
After the instinct-guided mother died—
Posthumous motherhood, no love, no joy. 

Motherhood: Brooding patient o’er the nest, 
With gentle stirring of an unknown love;
Defending eggs unhatched, feeding the young
For days of callow feebleness, and then
Driving the fledgling from the nest to fly.

Motherhood: When the kitten and the cub
Cried out alive, and first the mother knew,
The fumbling of furry little paws,  
The pressure of the hungry little mouth
Against the more than ready mother-breast—
The love that comes of giving and of care.

Motherhood: Nursing with her heart-warm milk,
Fighting to death all danger to her young,
Hunting for food for little ones half-weaned
Teaching them how to hunt and fight in turn—
Then loving not till the new litter came.

Motherhood: When the little savage grew
Tall at his mother’s side, and learned to feel
Some mother even in his father’s heart.
Love coming to new babies while the first 
Still needed mother’s care, and therefore love—
Love lasting longer because childhood did.

Motherhood: Semi-civilized, intense,
Fierce with brute passion, narrow with the range
Of slavish lives to meanest service bowed;
Devoted—to the sacrifice of life;
Jealous beyond belief, and ignorant
Even of what should keep the child alive.
Love spreading with the spread of human needs,
The child’s new, changing, ever-growing wants, 
Yet seeking like brute mothers of the past
To give all things to her own child herself.  
Loving to the exclusion of all else;
To the child’s service bending a whole life;
Yet stunting the young creature day by day 
With lack of Justice, Liberty and Peace.

Motherhood: Civilized. There stands at last
Facing the heavens with as calm a smile,
The highest fruit of the long work of God;
The highest type of this the highest race;
She from whose groping instinct grew all love—
All love—in which is all the life of man. 

Motherhood: Seeing with her clear, kind eyes,
Luminous, tender eyes, wherein the smile
Is like the smile of sunlight on the sea,
That the new children of the newer day
Need more than any single heart can give,
More than is known to any single mind,
More than is found in any single house,
And need it from the day they see the light.
Then measuring her love by what they need,
Gives from the heart of modern motherhood,
Gives first, as tree to bear God’s highest fruit,
A clean, strong body, perfect and full grown, 
Fair for the purpose of its womanhood,
Not for light fancy of a lower mind;
Gives a clear mind, athletic, beautiful,
Dispassionate, unswerving from the truth;
Gives a great heart that throbs with human love,
As she would wish her son to love the world.

Then when the child comes, lovely as a star,
She in the peace of primal motherhood,
Nurses her baby with unceasing joy,
With milk of human kindness, human health,
Bright human beauty and immortal love.
And then? Ah! here is the New Motherhood— 
The motherhood of the fair new-made world—
O glorious New Mother of New Men!
Her child, with other children from its birth,
In the unstinted freedom of warm air, 
Under the wisest eyes, the tenderest thought,
Surrounded by all beauty and all peace,
Led, playing, through the gardens of the world, 
With the crowned heads of science and great love
Mapping safe paths for those small rosy feet—
Taught human love by feeling human love,
Taught justice by the laws that rule his days,
Taught wisdom by the way in which he lives,
Taught to love all mankind and serve them fair
By seeing from his birth, all children served
With the same righteous, all-embracing care. 
 
O Mother! Noble Mother, yet to come!
How shall thy child point to the bright career
Of her of whom he boasts to be the son—
Not by assiduous service spent on him, 
But for the wisdom which has set him forth
A clear-brained, pure-souled, noble-hearted man,
With health and strength and beauty for his own, 

[Column 2]
And more for the wide record of her life,
Great work, well done, that makes him praise her
	name
And long to make as great a one his own!
And how shall all the children of the world,
Feeling all mothers love them, loving all,
Rise up and call her blessed!
		This shall be.
			CHARLOTLE PERKINS STETSON.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	Singing hymns (the natives can sing
nothing else) is a great source of happiness
to us. A portion of our time every eve-
ning is spent in this amusement.
	When Mr. Layton returned from Tahiti,
he brought with him a young girl with a
view to rescue her from a life of sin, and to
watch over her for good. She is a sweet
singer and looks innocent, but has had no
teachings from her parents to warn her to
shun temptations. I would like to have a
large house; and have means to take all
such poor, abused children under my im-
mediate charge. I look upon this poor
girl’s intelligent countenance, listen to her
pleasant voice and think how lamentable
that she must be sacrificed to the base pas-
sion of ungodly men. Had I no daughters
of my own, I would adopt her, and teach
her to be chaste and pure; but she would
be a dangerous companion for those young-
er than herself; there is something ensnar-
ing in her looks. The two little girls we
have in our family are very amusing. They
sing with energy, as if they felt the thrill-
ing effect of their own music. I look upon
them with admiration. 
	September 20. Last night our rest was
disturbed by the sickness of Brother Lay-
ton’s wife. The Elders were called up to
administer to her by the laying on of hands.
Her little sister sleeping in my house was
awakened to go with all the relatives and
sympathize, whether the person is danger-
ously ill or not. Such is their custom,
even to a fanaura (a birth) all must be
present.
	This morning a sister from Ravaivai,
called and inquired for Ellen. It was her
niece, she said, who had made friends with
our daughter, when she visited that island.
For that reason she called Ellen her grand-
child, and land belonging to her niece, she
affirmed, was Ellen’s. Such is their cus-
tom when two make an agreement to be
friends. Whatever property they possess
belongs equally to both, and must not be
withholden in case it is needed.
	The 9th day. This morning a native
sister sent in haste for the Elders, having
been taken alarmingly ill with the cramp
cholic. Mr. Pratt had a few days before
refused to administer to her and her hus-
band, on account of their using too much
tobacco, upon which they were both re-
baptized and covenanted to use no more. I
nursed her, anointed her with oil and the
Elders laid on hands in the name of the
Lord, and she soon recovered. Poor
creatures, they know nothing about nursing
each other; children they are in knowledge.
They repeat everything from their teachers,
they set no bounds to their abilities. Sacri-
fices and self-denial they consider necessary
adornments; powers of mind to supply their
wants and assist the needy, they think
should be qualifications of all the servants
of God. They are liberal with their means

[Column 2]
in the highest degree, but little do they
have. 
	September 15th. One year ago this day
we left the coast of California; that was the
Sabbath, this is Monday. Little did I then
think what was before me! My extreme
sickness on the water and the trials attend-
ing that voyage, were hidden from me.
Had I known beforehand what I should
suffer, I could not have undertaken it. I
have endeavored to sow good seed. My 
daughters have set an example of industry
and sobriety. Our reward will certainly
come to us in the great future.
	Mr. Grouard invited us to his house to
dine. His native wife, after helping to
cook the food, would not eat at the table.
I marvel greatly when I see white men,
sensible, intelligent men, conforming to the
habits of the island women; eating their
food from the ground, without knife or
fork; isolating themselves from the world;
raising a posterity they can never be proud
of. There must be some cause not appar-
ent to those who are sent here to preach the
Gospel. For them to go back to their
native country and mingle in society,
would be like being ushered into a new
world.
	When the white men are absent the head
chief leads. “Hoatau” has a powerful
voice, and great energy and force in his
manner, besides great zeal for this cause.
He is a natural orator. Mr. Grouard is ex-
tremely anxious to be sent to California to
get a vessel in which to convey the island
brethren to the body of the Church. Mr.
Pratt is not in favor of the enterprise, fear-
ing it might detain us here too long. How
painful to be kept in suspense!
	The 22nd day. The equinoctial storm
occurred, which continued for a week. We
are expecting to hear of terrible disasters at
sea. Glad our hearts are to see the smiling
face of the old king of day once more. In
this far-off world a dark, dismal day seems
intolerable. Sunshine and flowers are our
congenial companions.
	On the 26th, before the dawn of day, Mr.
Pratt went forth with dog and gun to shoot
wild fowl. He was induced to take Fran-
ces, our second daughter, with him, with a
view to dispel the gloom which seemed
hanging over her. They went two miles to
the mountains, up the cliff, and returned
with plenty of game. The excursion had
the desired effect. This seclusion from the
world at intervals is very trying on the
children. At such times they resort to
rambles on the mountains with the native
children, gather wild flowers, decorate
themselves and return in fine spirits.
	I have witnessed another setting sun,
beautiful when going down behind the
great deep. All is silent, not a sound do I
hear from the noisy world. I know not
but it is all buried up, and Babylon fallen
to rise no more forever. I trust, however,
that Salt Lake City still remains. How
long must we endure this imprisonment! 
I have one little hope remaining. Captain 
Johnson is expected in, and he will bring
us news from the dear old world. So I
will try to live a few days longer. 
	My employment daily is to keep the
children at their books. I made a feast for
those under my immediate charge. Four-
teen were seated around the table at once. 
They conducted themselves extremely well,
ate with knives and forks and tried to
imitate their superiors.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No deduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1899


A VISIT TO STRATFORD-ON-AVON.
	A perfect day in July, and a landscape as
beautiful as it is possible for scenery to be,
Tuesday, July 19, 1899, when we took a
morning train in Nottingham for Stratford-
on-Avon. One’s anticipations have some-
thing to do with one’s enjoyment generally,
and the thought of visiting the immortal
Shakespeare’s birthplace, and the scenes of
his activity, where he lived and loved and
wrote and became famous, to an ardent
admirer of his genius was sufficient to
make everything appear glorious, if even
the day had been dull and the journey
tiresome. But such was not the case; the
part of country through which we traveled
was charming. There were many fine
towns and villages, and the great city of
Birmingham, of which we could, from the
railway, only see the signs of its busy
manufacturing appearance, though we
afterwards had a fine visit there. We
passed, on the way, many handsome villas
and gentlemen’s country seats, some of
them well-known to our pleasant traveling
companion, who was familiar with many
parts of England, where his early life had
been spent. We reached Stratford-on-Avon
about 2 p. m., and went direct to the Fal-
con, a very old-fashioned inn, where we
had been informed there were many curi-
ous and ancient articles, typical of the
Shakespeare period.
	We found we were too late for the lunch
hour, but were directed to a Shake-
speare restaurant a short distance up the
street, quite as quaint as the inn itself.
	We made some inquires at the Falcon
from the hostess, who had already assigned
us rooms previous to our going out, and
had informed us that the room given the
writer had been Marie Correlli’s room when
she was a guest at the Falcon, and where
she had written “The Sorrows of Satan.”
The furniture was very old style—high 
post bedstead with heavy silk curtains and
bell with long silken cord, which was one
of a chime of nine bells, each having a
name attached over each respective bell in
the hall below, which was also the name of
the room; this one was called Silence.
We sallied forth to see the town and learn
all we could of its curious history. The
streets were narrow, and gave one the feel-
ing of antiquity; the houses were old and
many of them entirely different in style to
those we had seen in other parts of Eng-
land. Now and then, a house that looked
fresh and new was seen, but the tendency
seemed to be towards keeping up the

[Column 2]
Shakespearian period, and that is no doubt
the object.
	The Parish Church near by, was not so
different from many other churches except
for its history. This is the church where
the great Shakespeare was baptized on April
26, 1564, and as it was usual to baptize at
three days old, the 23rd of April is regarded
as the birthday of the great poet. The rec-
ord reads Gulielmus filius Johannes
Shakespeare.
	It has been remodeled considerably, but the
situation is fine, on the banks of the historic
river Avon, a placid stream overhung with
magnificent trees. At the hour we climbed
to the top of the tall steeple, the river was
dotted with pretty little skiffs, and girls and
boys in yachting costumes, merrily singing,
chatting and laughing, leisurely rowing
along the shores a picturesque sight, fit
for a poet’s pen or an artist’s brush.
Portions of the church are said to date
from the time of the Conquest, and to have
been built on the site of an old Saxon
church. Some parts have been pulled
down, rebuilt and beautified. Altogether
its history is interesting, but a description
of the church would take too much space
and is not strictly a part of our visit.
	From there we wended our way to
Shakespeare’s house, low and rambling,
where we were shown the chimney corner
so famous for the many recollections of fire-
side conversation. It is said that at this
chimney corner of Shakespeare’s father,
who was Councilor and Bailiff, two of the
highest positions in the town council, all
sorts and conditions of men gathered to dis-
cuss the affairs of town and state; also the
gossips, who only talked of commonplace
matters, and travelers who brought the
news of the great world. This house,
where Willie played in his infancy and
childhood, is visited by thousands of pil-
grims every year.
	After wandering through the rooms in
the Shakespeare house, and reflecting upon
the many incidents one has heard and read,
one feels scarcely fit to mingle with the
fresh, breezy people of the world; neverthe-
less, when the twilight was coming on,
and we were turning corners and angles of
the crooked streets, we came upon “Ye
Halle Crofte,” where the lady of the Falcon
had told us Marie Correlli was lodged,
writing two books, also that she refused
absolutely to see any one. However, when
one has traveled seven thousand miles one
is not easily discouraged at trifles, so we
made bold to lift the great brass knocker.
A porter in livery opened the door, and
when he saw only a timid little woman,
seemed greatly astonished. The errand
was soon made clear, and he said he would
do his best to procure an interview, and to
come at. 9:15 or later, considering the cir-
cumstances. Leaving a card for the great
author, we hurried to overtake our friend,
who was still wandering among the old,
historic places.
	After dinner or tea (one cannot always
remember which) we donned our best
traveling apparel, and, at the appointed
time, again lifted the brass knocker, and
the same fine porter opened the door and
his face was wreathed in smiles when he
said, “My lady will see you.”
	The house is quaint; there are three gables
front and everything betokens peculiarity.
The great beams overhead in the entrance
room, which one would judge had been a
living room, are lettered. The first to at,
tract the eye, immediately facing the door-

[Column 3]
is a welcome to all who enter here, in sort
of scriptural style and old-fashioned letter-
ing, but it makes one feel welcome, though
the place is almost sacred from association.
The house was formerly the home, of Dr.
John Hall, who married Susanna, the
elder daughter of Shakespeare. It is very
sweet to be so warmly received by a great
author when one is far from home, and
totally unknown except by name, as was
the writer of this sketch by this lovely
woman, whose books have, made her fa-
mous the world over. She came forward to
meet her caller with all the grace of a real
Duchess, and was as elegantly dressed. She
wore heavy white silk with a profusion of
white lace, and jewels that were dazzling;
also pearls upon her fair neck, which was
white as alabaster. Her abundant wealth
of golden auburn hair was dressed low, and
fell about her brow and temples in loose
tresses. She was beautiful as a dream of
summer, and her face was like sunshine,
her teeth like pearls and her lips ruby
red. Remembering her, one cannot wonder
she can write, and that she is musical, the
marvelously sweet tones of her voice would
tell you that. We talked freely of books
and places. She said she dreaded the ocean,
so she feared she could never visit America.
She sent for coffee and refreshments, and
served them herself in the daintiest fashion
in the finest Sevres china and silver service.
She gave the writer her autograph and said
in the most positive manner: “O, now,
Mrs. Wells, you must have my two books
am busy writing how. That is why I
can’t see people, every day I, should be
thronged with visitors.” When we in-
quired the titles, or what her books were to
be called, she told us they were not named
yet.
	She chatted freely of herself, her great
trouble, her brother’s death, her own
health, the crisis she had passed through
safely when she had been attended by a
woman doctor, and how anxious she was to
have everyone know how successful the
doctor had been in the case. She also was
profuse in her admiration of Halle Crofte,
which she would like to purchase; and of
the Falcon, where we were staying, and of
Ann Hathaway’s cottage, told us what we
must be sure and see in both these places
referred to the old church and the River
Avon, with its boating; insisted we must
have seen her rowing at twilight in a boat
on the river, when we were gazing down
from the church steeple; described her dress,
a simple white muslin and a white straw
sailor hat. Rowing is a pastime for which
she seemed to have the keenest enjoyment.
	It was a very great pleasure to meet this
charming woman, who has certainly a
striking personality, and once in her pres-
ence, one is not likely to forget the power 
of her fascination.
	Early the next morning we walked
through the lanes that led to Ann Hath-
away’s cottage. A delightful day; the fields
were thick with clover, daisies and red
poppies, and the wicket gates and green
hedges were more real than we could have
imagined by reading of them We were
there before the opening time, nine o’clock, 
so loitered about the quaint flower garden,
and curious thatched-roof cottages were
near as well as the Hathaway house itself.
It is reputed to be this footpath that
Shakespeare must have wandered over to
meet his lady-love in the soft twilight,
quiet and luxuriant, about one mile from
Stratford along the paths to Shottery, with


its old-fashioned gables and half-timbered
houess. On the way there is a little road-
side inn called “The Sheakespeare.” Trees
are heavy with foliage, almost embowering
the houses. Down the lane you cross a
little brook a few yards from the house,
which is a long thatched tenement of wood
and plaster. On the central chimney, cut
into the stone and let into bricks, is en-
graved the letters J. H., and date 1697.
The house is divided into three apartments.
There is a passage between two of them;
the room on the right has a chimney ex-
tending the whole width of the house, with
an oven, and boiler; this is the kitchen.
The rooms are ceiled with strong, heavy
beams. The present resident is a grand-
daughter of John Hathaway Taylor. Over
the parlor is the bedroom, up rickety stairs,
where there stands an old carved oak bed-
stead, elaborately and tastefully executed,
certainly as old as the Shakespeare period,
and handed down as an heirloom with the
house. The old lady of the house, nearly
ninety years of age, declares she slept in it
from childhood, and was always told it had
been there ever since  the house was
built. 
	The Shakespeare house, New Place,
Guild Hall and Grammar School, where
Shakespeare was taught, will be sufficient
for another short sketch (as this is already
too long), about our visit to Stratford-on
Avon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GONE TO HER REST. 
	Sister Melissa Jane Bigler Lambson, a
woman pioneer in the Church and in the
State, has passed to her rest beyond the
vail. has finished her earthly pilgrimage
and gone to join the innumerable host on the
other side, where there is no more pain
or sorrow or weeping; and although those
near and dear by the ties of kindred and
affection will miss her beloved companion-
ship here, yet there will doubtless be joy
and rejoicing there, that a loved one has re-
turned, having endured and been faithful
and true in the Gospel, for the race is not
to the swift, nor the battle to the strong,
but to him that endureth unto the end.
	Sister Melissa Jane Bigler Lambson,
who died in this city, October 25, 1899,
was the daughter of Mark and Susanna
Ogden Bigler, and was born in Shinston,
Harrison Co., West Virginia, March 24,
1825. Her parents received the Gospel
when she was a child, and were faithful
Latter-day Saints. With them she went
up to Missouri, and afterwards to Nauvoo.
Illinois, sharing in all the hardships and
persecutions of those early times. In Nau-
voo she became the wife of Alfred B.
Lambson, with whom she left the city at
the time of the exodus in 1846, and shared
in the perils of that eventful period. Broth-
er and Sister Lambson came to Utah, ar-
riving in September, 1847. Here, as be-
fore, she endured all the privations and
trials incident to pioneer life in the new
and barren, desert country, and passed
through all the hardships of that period
without murmuring or wavering in her
faith. Her last illness was a total breaking
up of the entire forces of life. She had
been delicate in health for many years, and
at last succumbed to the inevitable, with-
out complaint, only desiring to rest and be
at peace.
	The deceased was the mother of four
children, three daughters and one son all

[Column 2]
still living to mourn a tender and devoted
mother, to whom they were most devotedly
attached. She has left thirty grandchildren,
ten great grandchildren and an aged hus-
band, the companion of her youth, and to
whom she was fondly attached through
more than half a century.
	The funeral services were held on Friday
October 27, at 2 p. m., at the residence of
President Joseph F. Smith, her son-in-law,
and were conducted by Bishop W. J.
Beatie, Bishop of the Seventeeth Ward, in
which she had resided ever since the ward
was organized. 
	The services opened by singing “O, my
Father, Thou that dwellest,’ etc. Prayer
was offered by Bishop Emery, of the Six-
teenth Ward. The choir sang “When first
the glorious light of truth,” etc.
	The first speaker was Elder George B.
Wallace, a near neighbor, and one who had
known her from the settling of these val-
leys. He told of her many virtues and her
strict integrity to the truth under all cir-
cumstances, and gave a brief retrospect of
the early days, the organization of wards,
quorums, and so on, and paid a glowing
tribute to this excellent woman.
	Bishop Elijah S. Sheets followed, and
testified of the faith and integrity of the en-
tire family of Brother Bigler, (the father)
members of which he had been intimately
acquainted with in the days of Nauvoo.
	Apostle John Henry Smith spoke of the at-
tractive and entertaining qualities of Sister
Lambson, whom he had known from his
boyhood up. Alluded also to the family of
Brother and Sister Bigler and their great
faith in the Gospel, and referred to the
aged brother of the deceased, Brother Jacob
Bigler, a Patriarch of the Church, still liv-
ing in Nephi, Utah, yet not able to come
to Salt Lake City to attend the funeral; a
man of strict integrity and unquestioning
faith. He also spoke with affection and in
terms of praise of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, the only one of the Bigler sisters
still living. Many excellent tributes, were
paid Sister Lambson in the remarks made
by the several speakers. 
	Bishop Beatie made some closing re-
marks in which he mentioned more recent
matters pertaining to Sister Lambson’s life,
and the acquaintance he made with her
when acting as a teacher in the ward, and
afterwards as her Bishop.
	The closing hymn was, “We shall meet
beyond the river.” The music was furn-
ished by the Sixteenth Ward choir, and
was very choice in selection and well ren-
dered. The benediction was pronounced
by Counselor Frank S. Tingey.
	Sister Lambson looked peaceful and hap-
py in her beautiful robes as she lay in the
white casket, and many were the floral
tributes from loving and sympathetic rela-
tives and friends. Her remains were fol-
lowed to the cemetery by a numerous pro-
cession of those who loved and honored her
memory. The grave was dedicated by
Patriarch Jesse B. Martin, and Sister Lamb-
son’s mortal body was laid peacefully away
to await the morning of the resurrection of
the just.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from
henceforth, yea t[-]ey rest, from t[-]eir labors and
their works do follow t[-]em.”


IF we had no faults ourselves we should
not be so quick to observe those of our
friends.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Convention of the State Federation
of Clubs, held October 26, 27 and 28, in
the Congregational Church, in this city,
was both interesting and successful. The
papers and addresses were of a high char-
acter intellectually and bespoke the great
interest awakened among women on sub-
jects of vital importance. Mrs. A. V. Tay-
lor’s address of welcome, Mrs Ewing’s paper
upon Fiction, Mrs Lund’s paper and Dr.
Elliot’s, were all excellent, and we shall be
very glad to make further mention of these
meetings hereafter.
	MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT and Miss
Mary G. Hay, of New York City, are tour-
ing in the West in the interest of Equal
Suffrage. Both are fine looking, and are
women of marked ability. Mrs. Catt is
one of the finest speakers on the platform,
that there is in the suffrage work. They
came here from Montana and went direct
from Salt Lake to San Francisco. At a
meeting of ladies in this office on Monday,
October 30, at 3 p. m., a Central Committee
was organized to do special work in this
State in the interest of suffrage for other
parts of the country. Mrs. F. S. Richards
is chairman; Mrs J. Fewson Smith secre-
tary; Mrs. Ella W. Hyde, treasurer; Mrs.
E. J. McFarlane, chairman canvassing
committee. The ladies represented three
counties. A meeting to complete the or-
ganization and plan will be held at Mrs. P.
P. Jennings’ residence, on Saturday at 3 p.
m., November 4.
	THE ladies of the W. C. T. U. who were in
the city Sunday and Monday, were tendered
a reception by the Central Board of the
Y. L. N. M. I. A., in the parlors of the Bee
Hive, the residence of President Lorenzo
Snow, on Monday afternoon. The rooms
were tastefully decorated with flowers and
plants. Mrs. Snow, the hostess, is an
active member of the Board, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor is president and Miss Ann M. Can-
non secretary. Other members assisted in
receiving and in serving dainty and delicate
refreshments. Miss Bessie Edmonds ren-
dered very sweetly two charming songs,
“Good Bye Sweet Day” and “Slumber’s
Sweet Lullaby. Fine selections on the
piano were artistically executed.


R. S. REPORT. 
WAYNE STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference of Wayne
Stake was held September 17, 1899, in the 
Thurber Relief Society hall. Stake Presi-
dent W. E. Robison and a number of 
brethren were present, and President Jane 
S. Coleman presided. 
	The Thurber choir sang “Guide us, O
Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Patri-
arch E. H. Blackburn. Singing, “I long
to breathe the mountain air.” Minutes of 
the previous conference read by the secre-
tary and accepted. 
	President Coleman desired the blessings 
invoked by our beloved patriarch realized 
throughout our conference. Said the aim 
of the Relief Society is high, it is one of 
the privileges of the Gospel. We should 
sustain purity and virtue. The Lord has 
commanded that we bring up our children 
in light and truth, we should lead in every-
thing that has a tendency to elevate. The 
presidency had visited all the local branches
and found them in good condition. The


[Column 1]
poor and needy had been looked after, and
union prevailed. An effort had been made
to obey counsel in planting mulberry trees
in view of silk culture in the future. It
had been successful, and she hoped the
society would double its efforts another sea-
son. Felt the blessing of the Lord had
been upon our labors, and she felt very ap-
preciative for His many mercies.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks said we need
the aid of the priesthood at all times. Our
leading brethren and sisters are trying to
prepare us for the events that are coming.
The time has come when we have to live
up to the principles of the Gospel. Now is
the time to shake off our indifference.
Spoke on the word of wisdom, also on pay-
ing tithes and offerings, and of the mission
of motherhood and the good lives we as
sisters should lead.
	Counselor Sarah J. Forsythe said we
should teach our children the principles of
the Gospel and encourage them to attend
their meetings. We should keep all the
commandments more strictly.
	President Louisa J. Taylor reported the
Fremont branch. They are a united band
of sisters.
	President Margaret J. Taylor reported
Loa branch, they are energetic. With the
aid of the Young Ladies, the society there
had purchased a lot in a better location
than the present one. Both the associations
intend to unite in building a suitable hall
to meet in.
	President W. E. Robinson was pleased
to have the privilege of attending Relief
Society conference in such a comfortable
building, and pleased to see so many out.
“The remarks have been directed to the
mothers, who have the forming of the
minds of future generations. We are made
strong by sustaining one another, he loved
to see and sustain Relief Society work.
We all have responsibility placed upon us.
Every sister should be an active member.
Prayed the Lord to bless all connected with
the good work.
	Singing. Benediction by Bishop N. W.
Mansfield.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “Come, O
Thou King of kings.” Prayer by Elder
Edgar Jeffrey. Singing, “The happy day
is rolling on.”
	President Sarah G. Meeks reported the
Thurber branch as prospering.
	Sister Juliette Blackburn spoke on some
of the instructions given at the last confer-
ence, and bore testimony to the efficacy of
prayer.
	Patriarch Blackburn said there could be
no heaven without the sisters. He was
here to bless the sick, felt to bow before the
Lord continually and thank Him for His
power made manifest. Said there is not
enough devotion and spirituality cultivated.
Our young sisters should guard their virtue
as they would their lives. Angels are
watching us. The sisters hold in their
hands the destiny of the home.
	Secretary Anna Coleman presented the
General Board and Stake officers, and they
were sustained by unanimous vote. Tor-
rey and Grover branches were reported by
their respective presidents as doing well.
	President Elizabeth Rust reported Caine-
ville. She said in summer time, instead of
making quilts and sewing at working
meetings, they all met on that day and
turned out with their hoes and cultivated
their lot, which is planted with mulberry
trees, beans and corn. It gave the sisters

[Column 2]
rosy cheeks. She gave other good advice
on society work.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison said if we are
united in our efforts a great amount of
good can be accomplished. We should be
charitable one to another.
	Bishop M. W. Mansfield was pleased
with the untiring efforts of the sisters, and
was gratified at having the conference held
in Thurber Ward. We should be very
humble and prayerful, and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn realized that the
spirit of the Lord had been present. Spoke
of having seen the Prophet Joseph Smith
and heard him prophesy, and had his words
fulfilled. “If we are faithful we will live
to see great events transpire. We live in a
glorious dispensation.”
	Sister Maria Jakeman reported Lyman
branch doing well.
	President Jane S. Coleman was gratified
with the good reports of the presidents.
Advised, where grain had been raised this
season, to gather as usual and store it up.
When Relief Society teachers visit, their
conversation should be of Relief Society
work and the Gospel.
	Thurber Relief Society Hall was then
dedicated, President N. E. Robison offer-
ing the dedicatory prayer.
	Benediction by Bishop W. H. Morrill.
			ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REAPER’S CLUB.
	The Reaper’s Club held its first meeting
after an adjournment for the summer, at
the EXPONENT office, Templeton, on Sep-
tember 11, 1899.
	A very interesting paper was read by
Mrs. Amelia Woolley Wardrop, on the life
of Benjamin Franklin. She mentioned
incidents in his early life that exerted an
influence upon his character and energies,
and that were instrumental in making him
successful in the midst of unfavorable sur-
roundings. At one time he published the
Pennsylvania Gazette, in which he wrote
some important articles, etc.; also published
an almanac in 1733, that was quite a won-
derful work in that day, and commenced
the study of languages. He afterwards
occupied positions of trust, and was sent to
England and France to perform important
services for his country. He invented the
lightning conductor, by discovering the in-
fluence exerted by the electric current while
flying his famous kite. He was one of the
signers of the Declaration of Independence.
He died in 1790, at the age of eighty-four
ears.
	Mrs. Mary L. Morris gave a sketch of
the life of George Stephenson, inventor of
the railroad locomotive.
	These subjects were discussed by mem-
bers, and the many wise sayings of Frank-
lin, and his wonderful career, were talked
of; also Stephenson’s genius and inven-
tions.
	The club met again on September 25,
and after transacting some considerable
business, a program was rendered.
	First, a short but instructive sketch of
the life of Robert Fulton, by Mrs. Ida
Haag, his early life and orphanage when a
boy. Fulton constructed some famous iron
bridges, and also invented a diving boat,
but the name of Robert Fulton became
most famous as inventor of the steamboat.
He died in 1850, and was buried near Trin-
ty Church, New York.


The club program concluded, as it al-
ways does, with mentioning current events,
which, at the present time, are quite im-
portant.
				J. A. DRUCE,
						Act Sec.

	On October 23, the club was addressed
by Mrs. Annie Lewis Johnson, on the sub-
jects of self culture and hygiene, of which
she herself is an able exponent.
	President Zina D. H. Young was present,
which was a great pleasure to the ladies of the
club, as of late her many duties have pre-
vented her being with us except now and
then. Her name heads the roll of honor of
the Reaper’s Club, among whom are also
President Jane S. Richards, President
Bathsheba W. Smith and President M. Isa-
bella Horne. Though we rarely have their
presence to grace our meetings, yet we ap-
preciate their coming whenever it is pos
sible for them to attend.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened in the 14th ward hall, September 30,
1899, at 2 p. m., President M. I. Horne
presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing, “Lord we
come before Thee now.” Prayer by Sister
M. W. Wilcox. Singing, “O say what is
truth.” Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved.
	President Horne said when we come to
the house of the Lord, we should leave our
cares at home and centre our minds upon
God; that without the spirit of God we can-
not live acceptably. Alluded to the simpli-
city of the Gospel. Said the spirit of God
helps us under all trying circumstances if
we put our trust in Him. Referred to the
trials of the Saints in the early days, and
how God has blessed them. Spoke also of
the blessings we have in making the earth
so productive, and the privilege women
have in gaining useful knowledge, and also
the many duties devolving upon us in
various ways.
	Sister Brown felt if we cultivate the spir-
it of God our minds will be enlightened and
our understanding quickened. Referred to
the importance of Temple work.
	Sister Rachel Grant spoke of her visit to
Cache Valley, and the good spirit enjoyed
at the conference there. President Snow
shook hands with three hundred children;
she never saw healthier or finer children.
She thought it a great privilege to pay
tithing. We should keep the command-
ments of God and observe the laws of
nature. We could live to be healthier and
happier by observing these laws. Thought
the time was drawing near when we could
go back to Jackson Co. Desired to live
that she might be among those who return
to do that work. She looked upon trials
as blessings in disguise, and rejoiced that
she was associated with the best people on
the earth.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith thought we
should be more interested and do more
Temple work; should be economical and
not run into debt: pay our tithing and help
pay the Church debt, and redeem our dead.
The Prophet Joseph promised if we would
do our duty and keep the commandments
of God, we should reclaim our children,
none will be lost.
	The congregation sang “The spirit of
God.”


Sister Jane James and Sister Rawlings
each bore testimony.
	Sister Mary E. Bassett had seen the
Egyptian mummies at the Prophet Joseph’s,
and some of the records that were with
them; she bore her testimony.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn. 
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said she
had visited Tooele Stake Relief Society,
and enjoyed meeting with the sisters there.
Spoke of the trials of mothers in these days
in raising children with so many allure-
ments around us.
	The congregation sang “Our God we
raise to Thee.”
	Sister Johnson was introduced by Presi-
dent Horne, and said this was one of the
happiest days of her life, to be in Zion. She
had been baptized twenty-two years ago,
but had lived in the world, and had been in
dangerous places many times but she had
the promise of life, and did not fear. Spoke
of the blessings our sisters had enjoyed in
seeing angels; such a thing was not known
in the world. She had always borne a
testimony of the Gospel where the privilege
of doing so was afforded. Spoke of break-
ing the laws of nature; if we do, we must
endure the penalty. We must get our
bodies under control by relaxing  every
joint and muscle of the body. Said she
wished to form a class to study the laws of
health. By observing the laws and exer-
cising faith, we as a people can enjoy health.
Spoke of the necessity of an exercise of
faith. She wished to live with this people
and give her time to the work.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks with
singing and benediction by Sister Julia C.
Howe.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OBITUARY.
HELEN RIDLEY WEBB.
	Mrs. Helen Ridley Webb was born in the City
of London, England, May 29, 1815, and died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, U. S. A., September 22,
1899. Her father, William Ridley, was descended
in a direct line from the famous Nicholas Ridley,
Bishop of London, crown chaplain in the 16th
century, an eminent and learned Divine, distin-
guished not only in the annals of literature and
art, but in the higher and perilous fields of social
and religious reform, at a period when superstition
and fanatacism bound the very souls of men, and
often sealed in silence the lips of such as fain
would be champions of right and humanity, or
doomed them to the dungeon and the stake, where
terminated the mortal career of Bishop Ridley.
But the fires of bigotry which consumed his body
only served to set at liberty the undying spirit of
human right and religious freedom, which we find
bursting forth again, though in a modified degree,
in the life and character of Helen, who, like her
great ancestor, became early in life impressed with
the idea that the religious sects of the day had
deviated from the original plan of human redemp-
tion, that some vital principle was missing from
the perfect scheme. While in this form of mind
she met with the Mormon missionaries early in
1850. She carefully investigated their doctrines,
and became convinced that they possessed that
which had been missing, and forthwith identified
herself with them.
	Her husband, Samuel Whitehead Webb, to
whom she had been married July 10, 1836, also
embraced the same faith, and for a time ran well,
but his ardor cooled, his faith failed and eventual-
ly he stepped aside altogether. Then she realized
to its fullest extent what it is to stand alone, but
her strength was equal to her day. She conse-
crated herself and her future, and commenced her
life’s work in earnest.
	One of her first moves was to suggest, and, with
aid from the proper authorities, organized a Sab-
bath School at Camden Town, London, in the
year 1854, which proved a complete success, and
in it she labored diligently until her emigration in
1877.
	She was the mother of tweve children, six sons

[Column 2]
and six daughters, four of whom preceded her to
Utah, and her youngest, Fredrick O. Webb, fol-
lowed later.
	On her arrival here she settled in the 20th
ward, which was divided soon after and she was
in the 21st ward, with Captain Andrew Burt
as Bishop, and H. J. Foulger and W. L. N. Allen as
Counselors. The new ward was organized as
usual with a Relief Society, in which she became
an active and zealous member. A Sabbath School
with a primary department, to which she was called.
Only those familiar with teaching can fully realize
the peculiar tact and skill required in the success-
ful management of such a department; for it is in
the primary or infant school that the foundation is
laid for the future moral and intellectual structure.
For such work Sister Webb was by nature amply
qualified, hence she made a success of this, too.
A general organization for social and intellectual
purposes was formed, composed of both sexes and
all ages, called the “Twenty First Ward Mutual
Improvement Association.” She was one of the
first to volunteer for membership. Here, as every-
where else, she rendered valuable service, prompt-
ly responding to every call made upon her by the
committee on programs, on which committee she
was in turn called to serve. 
	Her co-workers, and those who knew her best,
saw in all she did and all she said, the individual
stamp of her native modesty and dignity. She
was remarkably patient and enduring, firm as the
hills, her word could be counted on, for it was in
very deed her bond. She was proud and sensitive,
and self-dependent as far as possible, and at this
time supported herself by teaching a private
school Thus fully employed she steadily pursued
the even tenor of her way, blessing and being
blessed, until the infirmities of nature forced her
into retirement, where her chief pleasure was to
converse on the redemption of the race, and the
principles of the Gospel as revealed to the Prophet
Joseph, when her friends called upon her to chat
with, or read to her, the beaming countenance and
sparkling eye was ample reward for their trouble.
	During her busy days she had not neglected her
Temple duties. All that circumstances would per-
mit had been done. Therefore, there was nothing
left for her to do but meekly fold her hands and
say, “Now, O Lord, let Thine handmaid depart
in peace,” and it was verily so. At the close of
day, when men seek their couches for natural rest,
she sought hers, slightly ailing, it is true, but
nothing to alarm, no racking pain, no agonizing
struggle, only somewhat labored breathing. In a
natural voice she asked for water which was given
her and which she drank. Then turning slightly
over, she breathed her last.
	Two only of her children were with her, the rest
were summoned. Their shock can be imagined,
but not described. Was it possible? Surely this
could not be death! Piteously they called upon
her to speak to them once more, only once. But
all was silence. She had said her say, she had
finished her work, her record was sealed and her
example before them.
	Another earthly race is run,
	Another glorious victory won,
	Another grave on the hillside made,
	Another Saint to rest is laid,
	Another empty chair have we,
	A place with the great redeemed has she,
	Sleep, darling mother, sweetly sleep!
	For thou no more shalt wake to weep.
								I. F. S.


DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
 (Continued.)

	They reached the camp and Rob grew
brighter. He even contrived to help him-
self down from the horse.
	“Come with me and let me dress the
wound,” again the Doctor urged. But
Deborah answered coldly, “I’m sorry, sir, 
but I can do that myself. I want my tent
alone. Can you not help me to this, Doc-
tor?”
	Ben turned angrily away.
	“Come then,” and he led her to a tent,
where he left her, after giving her band-
pages, etc.
	Once alone she bravely dressed the deep
and painful wound, spite of the agony
she endured, and thus she escaped detec-

[Column 2]
tion. She was in constant fear of Dr. 
Gannett. His searching gaze seemed to 
penetrate beyond the disguise she wore.
She dared not follow him farther, so when
orders came for moving she pleaded sick
leave and was left behind. She was to
care for others as soon as she recovered,
which was shortly. Dr. Gannett remon-
strated at the ill luck that separated him
from the youth who so deeply interested
him. He said as much to him, but only
met with a cool rejoinder, bidding him do
his duty and follow his regiment. When
he was gone and Deborah was quite re-
covered, she began to care for the sick and
wounded. She was placed in charge of
one special soldier who was very ill. They
were lodged in the family of a Dutchman,
Van Tassel by name, and a Tory to boot.
	Deborah suspected as much and was on
the alert for action. Van Tassel had a
very pretty daughter, Mina. She was be-
trothed to David Brenton, Deborah’s
former lover. He had gone over to the
Tories.
	So far Deborah escaped detection, for she
was changed since he saw her, bronzed by
the sun and worn from hardships. She
avoided him as much as possible, and he
showed no signs of recognition, but mani-
fested an insane jealousy of her attentions to
Mina, as they presumably came from a
handsome young soldier. But Deborah
continued them, thus finding out the secret
meetings of the Tories, who met at Van
Tassel’s house.
	On a dark night she made her way to the
American camp and disclosed the plot to
the Colonel. He immediately ordered a
party of men to aid her, putting her in
command. She rushed off boldly with
them, surrounded Van Tassel’s home just
as a meeting was in progress and captured
fifteen Tories. In the midst of the fray
Deborah found that she was being attacked 
by Sergeant Brenton.
	She parried his sword thrusts as best she
could. But his skill was too much for her
and he gave her an ugly gash, inflicting a
wound which opened the old one.
	She staggered, nearly falling, but she
overcame her weakness. Her coat was
colored with blood. The flickering candles
in the kitchen, where they fought, threw a
light on her pale, determined face.
	“To the death!” she called out to her
comrades as they wavered a second. “Don’t
let them go, my men. On, on to victory!”
	She rushed madly at the Sergeant again,
who by this time was thoroughly incensed
and was fixed in his desire to kill his
assailant. His thrusts became surer.
	Suddenly he observed the young man’s
appearance, the bedraggled uniform, the
disordered hair matted with blood from a
scalp wound, the wide open dark eyes, a 
strange memory stirred him. He had seen
the face before. Where? And then it 
was clear to him. He saw a girl at a win-
dow in the moonlight, looking down at
him. He held back his sword and grasped
the boy’s wrist and bent closer. Scanning
him mercilessly, Deborah read recognition
in his eyes. The room swam about her. 
	“My God,” he said, “who are you?
Speak.”
	She nerved herself bravely for the
answer, leaning against a table. The
other combatants were fighting outside now
and they were comparatively alone.
	“Speak,” he repeated.
	“My name is Robert Shirtliff,” she said
boldly.


[Column 1]
	“It’s a lie!” he exclaimed, drawing her
directly under the light. He pushed back
the matted hair and looked long and pas-
sionately at her as if for months he had
wished for this moment.
	“’Tis Deborah, Deborah my lost love.
My poor girl,” he said tenderly and clasped
her in his arms, kissing her lips, her brow
with a wild passion. She was in a half un-
conscious state and realized very little that
occurred.
	“God help me,” David said, “I have
wounded you—I—”
	“Nothing,” she gasped, “let me die.”
	“No, no,” she heard as in a dream and
then another voice broke upon her senses
A voice she remembered but too well, 
a voice which thrilled her and then bending 
over her she saw Ben Gannett.
	“Ben,” she said, trying to raise herself,
but finding it impossible, and David suc-
ceeded in getting her to her feet by holding
her in his arms.
	Dr. Gannett looked amazed to find an
enemy caring for her.
	“You are wounded, Rob, my poor boy,”
he said.
	“Yes, to the death, Ben,” Deborah mut-
tered, dragging herself forcibly away from
Brenton’s detaining hand, and throwing
her arms suddenly about Ben’s neck.
	“To the death,” she said again, and 
then lay quiet.
	“Not that,” he remonstrated gently,
while he raised her head to look at her.
	She was deathly pale, her eyes closed,
this time she was in a deep swoon.
	“And I have done it. God forgive me,”
David said brokenly.
	Ben was more surprised at this remark,
but bade him lend a hand, and together
they carried her to the camp, and straight
to the Doctor’s tent, where they laid her
down. It was here David Brenton told 
Deborah’s secret to Ben Gannett, whose
astonishment was manifest. The two men,
however, swore allegiance to her, each
promising to keep the secret, until a proper
time came to divulge it, and the Doctor
seemed to see when that would be.
	David, with a miserable remorse tugging
at his heart, was forced to return to his
duties, and to his promise to marry Mina,
whom he had never really loved. He found
his role a difficult one, but he played it
honorably, only going regularly to inquire
for the young soldier. The Doctor cau-
tioned him not to come after she began to
recover, fearing she might suspect he had
told her secret. So David stayed away .and
Deborah did not see him again for many
years, and when they did meet he was
married to Mina.
	It is needless to say that during Deborah’s
illness, which followed on her wounds, Dr.
Gannett never left her, and allowed no one
else to nurse her. He found a deeper senti-
ment than duty kept him by her side—he
loved her, but how to tell her. He read
her proud yet sensitive nature like an open
book, and hardly dared to think how this
great love for her might end.
	One day in the early autumn, Deborah,
weak and emancipated, walked outside the
tent with Ben’s assistance. It was difficult
to guard every word and look as he felt her
soft hand in his. He wanted to throw dis-
cretion to the winds, and tell his love to
her and hold her in a close embrace, but
looking now upon her lovely face, pure and
innocent as a child’s, he controlled himself,
and she never imagined that her truest
friend knew her as she was. Many had

[Column 2]
been the inquiries for Rob during his ill-
ness, and the soldiers crowded around him
as he came out in the faded blue regimentals.
Their brave faces were anxious and yet in
the eyes of many were tears at the sight of
the wan face and eager eyes. The Doctor,
seeing them so moved, put on a jovial man-
ner and turned the conversation to lighter
topics, and the morning passed pleasantly.
Thus day by day Deborah grew stronger,
and soon expressed a wish to take up her
duties as before, but she found opposition
in the Doctor.
	“It’s no use, Ben,” as he had insisted
upon being called, “I must join the ranks
once more, I must have action. See, I am
quite strong now.” A bright flush mounted
her cheeks while she spoke. She looked to
him very womanly as she stood before him.
The glance he bent upon her made her un-
easy.
	“I cannot and will not allow you to go,
Rob,” the Doctor said finally. “But if you
wont listen to me, I have secured a com-
mission, or rather a letter, from the Colonel
to General Washington, which you have
been ordered to carry to him. It is of im-
portance.”
	He did not meet her eyes and a hundred
misgivings came to him.
	“Will you take it?” he asked, holding it.
towards her. 
	“Yes, of course, at once, today. ” she
answered quickly.
	“But why this haste? Within a month
the Colonel’s orders were.”
	“Very well. Give it to me.”
	He did so.
	“Strange how contrary you are, Rob.”
	“It is not that, Ben. But I must be on
the go, some action, serving my country.”
	“Yes, but you cannot now.”
	“We shall see.”
	He suddenly drew her inside his tent and
placing both hands on her shoulders forced
her to look into his eyes. Her’s were filled
with defiance yet he perceived a wavering,
a fear in their clear depths.
	“Rob,” he said, “don’t be reckless again.
You have very nearly lost your life. Try
to think of me, for—for—you are very dear
to me.”
	“Thank God, sir, for that,” Deborah
said fervently.
	How he rejoiced to hear the eager tone.
How well he knew every outline of her
face. Had he not watched over her for
eight long weeks until her loveliness was
imprinted on his memory, never to be
effaced.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE. 

		Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6 The “Fast Mail” for Chicago, St. Paul, St. 
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
	Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2 The “Over and Limited” for Chicago, St. 
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4 The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . .	6 40 p.m.
		Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5 The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
	Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
	City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p. m
No. 1 The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver . . .	3 00 p.m. 
No 3. The ‘Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p. m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent. 

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married 
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

Time Table in Effect October 15, 1899.

	Trains will arrive and depart at Salt Lake City daily as fol-
lows:
				ARRIVE:
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis and Denver, 3:30 a.m
From Ogden, Portland, Butte, Helena and San Fran-
	cisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:05 a.m.
*From Milford, Sanpete, Provo and Intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:35 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, Denver and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3:00 p.m.
**From Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . .	4:00 p.m.
From Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:30 p.m.
Cache Valley Express, from Preston, Logan, Ogden
	and intermediate points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:40 p.m.
From Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate 
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:50 p.m.
				DEPART.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	Cache Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:00 a.m.
For Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:55 a.m.
**For Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . . . .	7:45a.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland and Intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	San Francisco	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11:45 a.m.
*For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and intermediate points	5:30 p.m.
For Ogden, Denver, Omaha, St. Louis and Chicago . .	6.40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate 
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	8:45 pm.
*Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
**Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall, 2nd South St.
S. W. ECCLES,		D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.	Gen. P. nd T. A,
		W. H. BANCROFT.
	Vice-President and Gen’l Manager.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 28.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15 & DECEMBER 1, 1899.		Nos. 12 & 13.


CONTENTS.
Deborah Sampson—A Woman of the Revolution
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alice Burke	73.
Special Meeting at Heber City, A. M. Lambert	74.
Speech of Miss Anthony . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	75.
General Relief Society Conference, E. B. W.		77.
Obituary—Cornelia Pratt Driggs. . . . . . . . . . . . .	79.
	Julia A. Tanner. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	79.
	Jane St. Clair Gillies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	79.
R. S. Reports—North London Relief Society	79.
	Omaha Relief Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	79.
Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting . . . J. S. Woolley	79.
Miss Anthony on Roberts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	80.
Insignia of Fashionable Woe. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elizabeth Cady Stanton	80.
EDITORIAL—Notes by the Way. . . . . . . . . . . .	76.
	Editorial Notes . . . . . . . . . .r. . . . . . . . . . . .	77.
POETRY—Speak to Me Kindly . . M. A. Freeze	73.
	The Cage. . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Lovemore	75.


SPEAK TO ME KINDLY.

Speak to me kindly, friend,
	Smile as you pass me by,
In sympathy sweet, O send 
	A glance from your friendly eye.

You know not how much of cheer
	May be couched in a single word,
It may not yet appear,
	How deeply the soul is stirred.

We cannot know the heart,
	Nor the burden of those we meet,
See the tear-drop ready to start,
	And the weary, faltering feet.

But rest assured of this,
	Not even a smile is lost,
What the giver can never miss,
	May bring joy to the tempest-tossed.

There may be a longing sore
	For the blessings which are ours;
Some miss friends who will come no more,
	In their lives are darkened hours.

Some are weary with toil,
	They scarcely find time to pray.
Then should we not give of our oil,
	To brighten their darksome way?

It may seem a little thing,
	To ask for a word, a smile,
But, O, ’twill a halo fling,
	And the care-worn heart beguile.

We cannot live for self,
	Without a thought for others,
Enjoying worldly pelf,
	Ignoring sisters, brothers.

In God’s eternal plan,
	He did not will it so,
His love for sinful man
	In endless streams doth flow

And He has said. “My child
	Come thou and follow me,
I’ll shield from tempests wild,
	And make thee glad and free.”

O, may this holy love
	Fill up our souls alway,
Descending from above,
	Prompt all our acts each day.
				MARY A. FREEZE.


LADYSMITH is called after the wife of Sir
Harry Smith, formerly commanding general
in South Africa. She was a Spanish girl to
whom the General gave protection when he
was a subaltern in the Peninsular war, and
who subsequently married him. Harri-
smith is named after her husband.


[Column 1]
DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE 
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
(Conclusion.)
	Deborah knew her only safety lay in part-
ing from him. She feared she might be-
tray herself if she stayed, for she grew 
restive under the necessity of concealing 
her identity, for never had she been so in-
terested in any one as she was in him. The 
power he exerted over her made her only 
safe in retreat. She dared not look into her 
soul and find a deeper feeling for him,
though she knew too well it was there, so 
now she made light of his earnestness.
	“Dr. Ben,” she said, “It’s useless trying 
to tie me down. My nature is wild and 
free. I want to be away.”
	“As you please then. I’m sorry. Yet, 
Rob, I know that some day you will return 
to me. Good-bye, my boy.”
	He clasped her hands with a strong pres-
sure. His manly countenance grew pale as 
he gazed at her. She saw the anxious 
look, but left him to go to the tent, where 
she packed up a few things and in a little 
while she was gone.
	Ben Gannett meantime went to head-
quarters to see the General. Day after day 
he waited, but no trace of Deborah. She 
meanwhile wandered rather aimlessly 
through the camps, engaged in one or two
expeditions, trying to find the only peace 
she could in forgetfulness. It would not 
come, and finally she became disheartened 
and found that she only had one day to 
reach Washington on the Colonel’s com-
mission. She hastened thither at once.
	She dressed herself in full dress regiment-
als and seemed a gallant youth, as she was 
shown into the presence of General Wash-
ington. He received her with the mem-
bers of his staff about him. The room was 
spacious and three or four long French 
windows allowed the sunlight to glisten 
over the place. The golden rays fell full 
upon the slight figure of Deborah, on the 
gold bands and gilt buttons and hat, with 
its cockade of red, white and blue, and
lighted her inspired face, her gleaming 
eyes and parted lips showing the white 
teeth as she paused in expectancy, waiting 
to hear the General’s orders.
	The hour was midday and the sun was at 
its brightest. Yet while it fell upon 
Deborah, it left one part of the room in 
comparative shadow. She had an un-
comfortable feeling that some one was 
standing looking out, but she did not turn 
to make sure, for she was curious to watch 
Washington, and she became agitated as 
she stood there, with all those great men 
gazing at her. But while she looked at the
General’s noble countenance a great calm-
ness came over her and she delivered the
Colonel’s letter into his hands and stood at 
attention, waiting.
	The room was very still; no sound but 
the rustle of the paper as Washington 
turned a page. When he finished reading 
it he looked at her kindly.
“And you are Robert Shirtliffe,” he said 

[Column 2]
gently. “You are to be commended for 
your bravery.”
	The man in the window turned instantly 
as the General spoke, but Deborah did not 
heed him. She fell on one knee saying,
“Your blessing, General.”
	He gave it and conferred upon her the 
honorary badge of distinction established 
by him. He proceeded to put into her 
hand a discharge from the army, a note of 
praise as well and a few words of advice 
and farewell.
	She rose to withdraw, but some one stood 
beside her. She recognized Ben Gannett.
	Robert,” he exclaimed.
	“You here,” she said in confusion.
	They made their adieus to Washington 
and his staff and departed.
	As they found themselves in the street 
Deborah asked, “How did you come here?”
	“To wait for you, Rob. I wanted to be 
here when you came to help you,” he
answered, with an unmistakable meaning 
in his glance.
	She blushed uncomfortably. He knew 
her secret! She hastily tore open Wash-
ington’s letter containing her dismissal 
from the army and the note of praise for a
woman’s bravery and a bit of advice to a
madcap’s wildness. She laughed nervous-
ly as she said to Ben, “And you, sir, have 
you known my secret, too?”
	“Yes,” he said, laughing with her.
“And now let’s hurry and get to camp.”
	“I’m going home,” she said thought-
fully, “and you will come and see me later
on.”
	“If you want me,” he replied.
	“Of course I want you,” she said.
“How thankful I am,” she continued, “to
that great and good man who so kindly 
spared my feelings. He saw me ready to 
sink with shame. One word from him at 
that moment would have crushed me to the 
earth, but he spoke no word and I bless 
him for it.”
	“You are right, Deborah,” he said, call-
ing her for the first time by her own name 
and she gave him a glance of pleasure.
“General Washington is a noble man.”
	A few months later Ben Gannett rang 
the bell of a humble house in Plympton.
Deborah opened the door for him. She 
was in a pale lavender muslin, her dark 
curls grown a trifle longer, encircling her 
lovely face. The glow of health once 
more showed on her cheeks, her eyes 
beamed with pleasure at beholding him.
	“Ben,” she said, after the greeting, “I
am so glad to see you.”
	She led him into the living room. On a 
hook in a corner hung an army cap and 
sword, and close by her rifle. “See,” she
went on, “the remains of my service to my
country.”
	The enthusiasm, the inspiration lighting 
her dark eyes told him that she had not 
overcome that absorbing passion for her 
country. He did not seek to stifle it, in-
stead he remarked:
	“Yes. Deborah, I see, and who knows, 
you may have occasion to use them again?”
	“No, I think not,” she said. “I have
been away from home so long that I al-


[Column 1]
most forgot my duties here with mother.”
	As he watched her he became more de-
lighted with her womanliness and sweet-
ness.
	“Deborah,” he said, after a while and
during a pause, “I have come here for a
purpose today.”
	“A purpose,” she repeated.
	The room with its ancient furniture, the
great fireplace, where the logs blazed, was
impressed indelibly upon the minds of the
two there, each expectant of the other, each
knowing that a new era was about to open
out before them—an era of some great joy.
	Ben could see his love where she stood by
the fireplace, looking down into the danc-
ing flames, as higher they leaped in a mad
race as if each one wished to go higher than
the other, then were put backwards as
others pushed themselves into their places.
	“Life is like that,” Deborah said thought-
fully, “like the flames. We try to push
ourselves into other’s places. Don’t we,
Ben?”
	“Perhaps. But no one could push them-
selves into your place, Deborah,” he said
earnestly.
	“And why not, Ben?”
	“Because, dear, I love you, and want
only you—you for my wife, dear.”
	“Is it true? you love me after all?” she
asked hesitatingly.
	“Quite true, Deborah. I have loved
you for a long time.”
	“And you really want me, Ben?”
	“Yes, dear.”
	They stood a moment in silence. The
ruddy fanciful light fell over them. He
seemed to her an invincible presence, an
ideal she had dreamed of all her life, and
there he stood before her in veritable truth.
	While she was to him the woman he
loved. Very beautiful, a being who seemed
to him far beyond him in goodness.
	“Tell me, Deborah,” he said, in an in-
sistent voice, “what I want to know. Tell
me, dear.”
	“’Tis love, Ben. I love you,” she said
caressingly.
	He went close to her and looked into her
face. He studied the brave eyes and the
careless, almost reckless courage of the
determined mouth. He knew he must be
strong to control such a nature, but he had
no fear.
	“She underwent the scrutiny calmly.
	“Well,” she said, will you have me for
better or worse? and it’s most like worse.”
	“I wasn’t thinking of that, Deborah,”
he said. “I was thinking of myself and
wondering if I am worthy of' you and
thinking of my happiness in the knowledge
that you love me. Yes, sweetheart, I take
you for better or worse.”
	He drew her to him close within his
arms, kissing her.
	“My love, my love,” he said in low
tones, and Deborah found her happiness at
last in the strong nature revealed to her in
Ben Gannett and his undying love for her.
	In the following April, on the seventh of
that month, 1774, they were married.
	The year that followed she was asked by
Washington to again visit the seat of
government as a guest. So with her hus-
band she returned thither. She was feted
and made much of, attending receptions
given by the officers. She was given a
pension for life.
	At one of the most notable receptions a
request was furthered to her that the people
wished to see her in her regimentals and

[Column 2]
implored her to appear before them thus 
apparelled.
	Deborah hesitated but Ben encouraged
her to comply with the demand, and finally
she sent home for the suit.
	When the memorable night came, she
was in full dress uniform once more, and
carried the self-same rifle which had been
her trusty friend through the war.
	Her curls were tucked under the Wash-
ington hat she wore, and as she stood wait-
ing for Ben, she was a fine youth to behold.
When her husband joined her he stooped
first to kiss her, then said, “My lad once
more, and my love.”
	She laughed merrily.
	“Take care, sir, I may join the service
again.” she said.
	They were shortly entering the large
room where the reception took place.  Men
in gold lace and satin knickerbockers, dia-
mond buckles and lace frills crowded about
them. A hundred candles in tall brass
candlesticks suffused the light. Some one
was singing to the accompaniment of a
spinet. The women in their flowered silks
and satin petticoats and high-heeled slip-
pers and gorgeous buckles, also joined the
crowd around Deborah, who was worthy of
their attention in her brave accoutrements
and her charming face alight with gayety,
her eyes dazzling in their brilliancy.
	An earnest request was given from
Washington to have her go through the
manual of arms with her rifle, which she
readily consented to do. They said of her
afterwards. “She could make a gun talk.”
	But Deborah grew tired of this social
whirl and in a few days they returned
home.
	Dr. Gannett had abandoned his profes-
sion and interested himself about a large
farm, which had been handed down to him
from his ancestors, somewhere in Sharon.
He thoroughly enjoyed the life and though
he had plenty of men to carry on the rough
work, Deborah frequently found him toiling
in the fields on a cool summer’s eve with a
large wide-brimmed hat on his head and in
a suit of home-spun, and she would bid
him come with her for a walk to the sum-
mit of the hill, where they would pause and
watch the moon steal up from the valley,
and later its effulgence would touch the
scene with a glamor of dreaminess and mys-
tery.
	And Deborah clasped her hands about his
arm and said, “It’s very beautiful here,
very beautiful.”
	“Yes,” he answered. “How happy we
are, you and I together. For our life is
love, dear, all of love to live, dear, just
with you.”
	“We’ve had our trial, Ben, haven’t we?”
she continued, as they returned homeward,
“yet I regret nothing of the past, of that
past of my life when I served my country,”
she ended.
	“I know that, Deborah, but now you be-
long to me,” he said firmly.
	“Yes, and I’m not sorry for that either,”
she said gaily.
	They walked slowly through the moon-lit
meadows, while before them the radiance
of the river, on the hills, shimmered seem-
ingly with peace and joy, guiding them
ever onward.
		American Monthly Magazine.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE hospital ship, Princess of Wales,
which has just sailed from England for
Cape Town, was paid for by the Princess.


SPECIAL MEETING AT HEBER CITY.
	Minutes of a special meeting held in the
Heber City Stake House, September 23, 1899.
	Meeting opened with singing “An angel
from on high.” Prayer by Christy Giles.
Continued by singing, “How firm a
foundation.”
	President Anna R. Duke spoke but a
short time, as she desired to hear President
Zina D. H. Young, of Salt Lake City, who
was present.
	President Young addressed the sisters:
“Sisters be faithful and watchful, guard
against faultfinding and never let your chil-
dren hear you speak disrespectfully of any
one, or find fault with the authorities of the
Church. I was present at a meeting in
Nauvoo and heard the Prophet Joseph
Smith say in a discourse, ‘I now turn the
key of knowledge for women.’ Women
have filled an important position in the
Church since that time, and will continue
to do so. It is now over sixty-three years
since I was baptized. I have seen many
changes. We are not working under a
mere belief, but we have the blessing of
assurance. We are sure of a reward if we
prove faithful. It is our privilege to
understand the Gospel. We should study
and read something every day from good
books. Teach your children the principles
of the Gospel, the Gospel is the bread of
life. Let the children learn of the peace of
the Gospel at home. The Lord has great
blessings in store for His handmaidens.”
Sister Young closed her remarks by saying
she desired to hear the sisters talk and
asked the blessings of God to be with
all.
	President Anna Duke introduced Sister
Elizabeth Buzzo, from Salt Lake City, who
made a few remarks; also Sister Catherine
Archibald, of Snyderville, who spoke a
short time.
	Sister Ann Murdock bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Sarah Bond made a few remarks,
also Christy Giles.
	President Anna Duke thought we were
blest to have a sister with us who had seen
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Sister Wilson, from Midway, said she
knew Aunt Zina when she was a young
girl. She had lived in President Young’s
family for a number of years, and Aunt
Zina’s every day life was an exemplary
one.
	Sister Zina Young spoke a short time.
Her remarks were on the early rise of the
Church, and the blessings in store for those
that prove faithful.
	President Hatch was very glad to see
Aunt Zina. He had known her since he
was a boy of about ten years of age. Said
the Relief Society was one of the most
helpful organizations in the Church. Asked
the blessing of the Lord to be with all.
	Sister Anna Duke gave all who wished a
chance to shake hands with Sister
Young.
	Meeting closed with singing “Praise to
the man.” Benediction by Sister Ruth
Hatch.
	Sister Zina shook hands with one hun-
dred and twenty-six.
			ALICE M. LAMBERT,
							Act. Sec.


The dark today leads into light tomorrow,
There is no endless joy, no endless sorrow.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SPEECH OF MISS ANTHONY.
AT QUEEN’S HALL, LONDON, JULY 29, 1899.
Mrs. President, Officers and Members of the
	Suffrage Societies of Great Britain and
	Ireland and the world over:
	I wish I might be worthy of the honor
which Mrs. Phillipps gave me of being one
of those who, more than fifty years ago,
assembled in the little town of Seneca Falls,
New York, and made the declaration that
the right to vote is the under-lying right,
the one which protects all other rights.
But I was not there. Lucretia Mott was
there, and Martha C. White, whose daugh-
ter sits beside me, and Elizabeth Cady
Stanton—all signers of the call for that first
Convention. I hear all these women and
the men also, asking “Why is it that when
this first proclamation for the ballot was
made in the United States more than half a
century ago, other countries are getting
ahead of us?” Well, I can assure you
there are many reasons. It is not from any
lack of hard work and persistent effort on
the part of the handful of women who have
stood at the front of this movement in our
country; but the complications are very un-
like those in your own country. Suppose
that here in England, after all your labors,
and after all your magnificent champions—
from John Stuart Mill and Jacob Bright,
down to Mr. Begg—had worked in your
Parliament for years, had urged enactment
of a law, and succeeded in getting it through
the House of Lords, that the question then
had to be voted on by every elector in the
mines, the factories and the rural districts
of England, how much would you expect
to get all at once? And that is the difficul-
ty with us.
	Our revolutionary Fathers proclaimed
equal political rights. At first they made
practical application to a very few men only,
and during the more than a hundred years
battle in our country, those great principles
have been gradually extended to one class
after another. In the beginning only
Church members voted, then only rich men,
then only white men, then only men; that
is, we had an aristocracy of the Church; then
an aristocracy of men of wealth; then an aris-
tocracy of white men, and last we now have
an aristocracy of men. We are simply de-
manding today the application of our funda-
mental principle of political equality to the
other half of our citizens. We are asking
for nothing now, but simply for the prac-
tical application of the old doctrine that was
declared by Hancock and Adams and all
the old revolutionists, who rebelled against
King George because he insisted on taxing
them without giving them the right of
representation. We are insisting today that
the men of the United States shall no long
er continue to violate their principles—to
tax women and deny them representation.
We have what you might call forty-five
Englands: that is, we have forty-five States,
and each State Legislature must first pass a
resolution submitting the question to be
voted upon by the men of that State. We
have succeeded in gaining the franchise in
four states of the Union by this slow pro-
cess.
	Another hindrance I want to mention to
you: every single year over a quarter of a
million of foreign born men are landed on
our shores, fresh from the monarchies of
the Old World, who know nothing at all of
the Declaration of Independence, of the
principle of free and equal government,

[Column 2]
and we have, as General Grant once said, “a
big job on our hands.” We have to edu-
cate a quarter of a million of men every
year into the principles of our American
Institutions. And I want to say to you,
my good friends, that in every one of the
fifteen States in the Union in which the
question has been voted upon, if only the
native born men had had the franchise, the
women in every one of them would have
had the ballot today. I am not sorry that
those men who do not understand our
Institutions have the right to vote, for they
never would understand them if they had
not that right. So we must wait with
patience the slow process of education.
And we have been very patient: in our
half century of agitation and education we
have gained Woman Suffrage in four
States! And besides that, women have
municipal suffrage in one State, a vote on
matters of taxation in several others, and
school suffrage, to a greater or less extent,
in twenty-three States. In over one half of
the States of our Union women are voting
today. In Louisiana, one of the old slave
States, on the sixth day of this month,
women taxpayers in the city of New Orleans
for the first time in history cast their ballots
on the question of taxing the people of that
city for the purpose of building sewers and
improving sanitary conditions. The men
were so considerate of the women that they
made that constitutional proviso, that they
arranged for them to vote by proxy if they
were too modest to go to the ballot box.
When some of the women attempted to get
a proxy they learned that by the law of
Louisiana, a married woman’s name on a
certificate would not stand, therefore they
were compelled to go to the ballot box.
	The distance we have gone in the last
fifty years is beyond computation. Before
I sit down I will tell one little incident
illustrating the condition of things when we
started. I had been a teacher in the State
of New York for fifteen years—from the
age of fifteen to thirty. A State Teachers’
Convention was held in my city of Roches-
ter. Over a thousand women had gathered
in that convention and perhaps two hun-
dred men. Up to that time no woman’s
voice had ever been heard in one of these
conventions; only men had reported the re-
sult of their experience, because it was con-
sidered improper for women to speak in
public. Those men appointed a committee
to prepare resolutions, and one of these de-
clared that teachers were not respected as
were ministers, lawyers and doctors. In
discussing that resolution one man declared
that the profession of teacher was higher
than that of a doctor, of more use to the
community; another, that it was higher
than that of a lawyer, and a third even
affirmed that it was of more service to the
world to train the young than it was to try
to reform them after they had been brought 
up in a crooked way. “And yet,” said
these men, “ministers, doctors and lawyers
are treated with the greatest respect, invited
into the best families, often elected to high
offices, whereas schoolmasters are treated
slightingly, and are often called Miss Nan-
cies and old grandmothers!” I listened
with a great deal of interest, and at length
—having been born a Quaker, and always
taught that God inspired a woman to speech
just as weil as a man—I rose in my seat and
said, “Mr. President!”
	The president was a Professor of Mathe-
matics at West Point, a pompous man,
wearing a blue coat, brass buttons and buff

[Column 3]
vest. He stepped to the front of the plat-
form, and inserting his thumbs in his arm-
holes, asked, “What will the lady have?”
	The idea never entered that man’s cran-
ium that a woman could rise in her seat and
address the chair just like a man! And I
said, “Mr. President and gentlemen, I
would like to say a word on the question
under discussion.”
	“Then,” said Professor Davis, “what is
the pleasure of the convention?” And he
looked down to this little handful of men on
the front seats, never casting a furtive
glance to the thousand women crowding
that hall. One man moved that the lady
should be heard, and another seconded, and
they discussed the question for half an hour.
	At last, by a very small majority, it was
decided that the lady should be heard, and
I managed to say, “Mr. President and
gentlemen, I have listened to your discus-
sion with a great deal of interest, but it
seems to me that none of you quite compre-
hend the cause of the disrespect of which
you complain. Do you not see that so long
as society says that a woman hasn’t brains
enough to be either a minister, a lawyer or
a doctor, but has ample brains to be a
teacher, that every man of you who teaches
school practically acknowledges that he
hasn’t any more brains than a woman?”
and sat down.
	As I passed out of the hall at the close of
the session I heard many a woman whisper-
ing to another, “Who is that creature?”
“Where did she come from?” “I was
never so ashamed in my life, I wished the
floor had opened and swallowed me up!”
They wer honest, they really believed
it was degrading to a woman to speak.
	The next morning Professor Davis in
calling the convention to order, assumed
his pompous position and said: “I have
been asked why it is women are not put
upon the committees, why they are not
invited to prepare reports and so on.” And
then he continued: “Look at this mag-
nificent hall, at the beauty of the entabla-
ture, the symmetry of the shaft and the
strength of the pedestal. Could I be instru-
mental in dragging from its proud eleva-
tion that beautiful etablature and rolling it
in the dirt and dust that surround the
pedestal? No, heaven forbid!”
	And he was quite sincere, and really be-
lieved that if a woman stood in an audience
and spoke she would be degraded to the
level of a man. Exactly so now. Men are
afraid that if women vote, if they hold
office, if they sit in Congressional and
Parliamental halls, they will degrade them-
selves to the level of men!!


THE CAGE. 
When song-bird thoughts within his heart
Make melody sublime,   
The Poet snares them by his art
Into a cage of rhyme. 
And there the captive fancies beat
Their wings against the bars, 
The music, soft and low and sweet, 
Ascending to the stars. 
Yet evermore they long to be 
Back where the surges roll,
Untamed, unfettered, wild and free.
Within the Poet's soul. 
		ROBERT LOVEMORE.


LOVE for the dead should not be allowed
to cramp our duty to those who are still
with us.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
     Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
    Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
    EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to
					Mrs.E.B.WELLS.
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOV. 15 & DEC.1, 1899


[Column 1]
		WAYSIDE NOTES.
	A hurried journey by train is seldom
very interesting late in the Autumn, when
gray is the prevailing color in the land-
scape, and the road runs far and away from
the largest towns, only skirting the outside
edge to call one, two or three minutes at
stations to take on passangers, or allow
them barely time to jump off. However,
we did get a glimpse of a muddy river here
and there, and American Falls, which
diversify the scenery just a little, and are
always a momentary delight to the weary
traveler. A dining car en route is a posi-
tive luxury, and when one finds it has been
left at some station by the way, it is sure
to be disappointing. All things considered,
the trip to Northern Idaho was pleasant
until we had to change from a Pulman to
an accommodation train and stay over night
at a country hotel. However, one who
writes can occupy the time, if there is noth-
ing more important to be done; though
when one is expected to furnish an original
sentiment for an exceptional gathering of
relatives and friends, one needs to be in-
spired, and a railway train and country
hot 1 are not specially inviting to a way-
ward muse.
	Here we heard the latest news from the
court at Moscow (not in Russia, but in
Idaho) of the decision concerning strikers,
and saw some of the men who had been
in the “Bull Pen,” but were released and
were now staying at “The Wayside Inn”
at Tekoa, Washington, where we were to
pass the night.
	Early next morning the train for Wallace
was ready, and we pulled out in eager ex-
pectancy of soon reaching our destination.
The day was not as bright as we could have
wished for an anniversary party, but the
sun shone later on, and when we arrived in
Wallace the clouds had nearly disappeared. 
We who live in Utah hardly realize how 
much sunshine we have, until we go far to
the north, where lights are often necessary
at high noon, and always by four in the
afternoon in winter time. Several of the
family were at the station and we were
very soon greeted by all the dear ones who
had gathered for the silver wedding party.
		THE SILVER WEDDING.
	The house was decorated so profusely it
was like a fairy bower of vines and flowers,
artistically arranged and festooned, a real
work of art; in such an Eden one might
have hoped to see one of the “divine nine,”

[Column 2]
but, alas, the time had fled, and very soon 
the guests would arrive.
	The library adjoining the parlor was pre-
pared for the bride and groom to receive
the congratulations in. The bay window
was embowered in beauty even before the
happy couple stood there under the yoke of
green coptis leaves, smilax and roses, with
the figures 1874 and 1899 in silver at oppo-
site corners.
	The bride wore a white satin gown
covered with white silk tulle, embroidered
in silver bow knots, and carried a lorgnette
of pearls, a delicate ivory fan and pale pink
and white roses, with long stems, fine
white slippers with silver clasps, and lace
and silver ornaments in her dark hair. She
looked quite as lovely, but not as shy, as on
her wedding day twenty-five years before.
The bridegroom was attired in the regula-
tion black broadcloth and immaculate linen
collar and cuffs etc., and white silk tie.
	The two daughters wore black silk tulle
over black satin bespangled with brilliants
and profusely trimmed with real lace.
Many of the ladies of the party were very
elegantly gowned, and the gentlemen were
in evening dress, even the military officers,
except one or two young Lieutenants, who
wore their handsome uniforms.
	The parlor, hall and dining room har-
monized in decorations with the library,
carnations, roses and chrysanthemums,
fragrant and abundant, in every nook and
corner.
	There were many handsome and some
very exquisite (silver) gifts, many of them
from other states, as well as a number given
by the fifty or more guests present.
	Besides other delicious refreshments
daintily served, there was a large wedding
cake with the significant figures that marked
the date of the former happy wedding party
in the “dear old home” on State Street.
	Alas, how much has transpired in this
quarter of a century!
	There was some fine instrumental music
by one of the gentlemen, and Mrs. Daisie
Allen rendered in her fine, sympathetic
voice, two or three songs. Mrs. Verona
Hillard afterwards sang some light, airy
melodies, and the “Little Mother,” by
urgent request, read the verses composed
en route.
	The guests when departing, each in turn,
in the most elaborate language and with
hearty good will, hoped the host and
hostess might live to celebrate their golden
wedding anniversary in prosperity and
happiness. The party certainly passed off
pleasantly, and it will assuredly be a happy
memory in the lives and hearts of those
whose anniversary was thus celebrated, be-
cause of the warm fellowship and kindly
feeling manifested by all assembled.
		
		OVER THE MOUNTAIN.
	After a week spent with the dear ones at
Wallace we must needs go over to Murray
to pass a few days. The journey has to be
taken by stage, or in private conveyance,
twenty-two miles over a mountain road
through mining camps, and winding around
high mountains. At this late season the
scenery is not so beautiful as when the
woods are green, or when the frost has
tinged the leaves and shrubs with all the
bright hues possible to imagine. The rain
had been pouring for a few days and the
mud made it difficult driving. Some im-
provements were noticable, a fine three
story mining mill at Monarch, the first

[Column 3]
place of human habitation after leaving
Wallace, except the shanties for miners, far
up the mountain side, with tunnels here
and there, and from appearances one would
imagine every vein of gold or silver in the
mountains had been opened.
	The woods were fragrant of the pine per-
fume, notwithstanding the other varieties
of trees were bare, tho’ here and there the
fiery red berries of the mountain ash bright-
ened the woods, and occasionally the flash
of the sumach showed in the distance.
	On the summit of the highest mountain
we take a survey of the road behind us,
trailing around and around through the
timber, and wonder how we could have
passed the teams on the way; and we ob-
serve the new railroad, “Sixteen to One,”
which is being built to haul ore from the
great Sunset mine. This opens another
roadway among the monarchs of the pine
forests.
	When the ride is about half com-
pleted we come to Beaver Station, where
weary travelers may rest and be sure of a
good meal. The hostess had just come in
from hunting with her gun. She had shot
a pheasant, and was plucking the feathers
as we drove up. There was nothing bold or
mannish in the appearance of Mrs Horban,
though evidently she knew how to use a
gun to some advantage; and she also lives
where women have equal political privileges.
Her two little girls were at Delta in school,
two or three miles further on, where they
are taken every morning and brought home
after school hours. Delta seems to be more
of a mining village than Beaver, more
houses, stores, saloons (these abound where-
ever mines are worked) and at the school
house, as we passed through about half
past two, children were out for recess, and
one could not help wondering where they
all lived. Farther on was Myrtle, another
of the small towns in this vicinity, and
more tunnels and gulches, and by and by a
graveyard, the notice on the high gates
signifying it belonged to the “Union,” and
of course, no other “need apply.” Pritch-
ard creek had been in sight for some time
and Tiger Gulch on the opposite side
and we began to see signs of Murray,
which lies between high mountains covered
with timber and where the pines are al-
ways sighing and the waters murmuring.
	In this little vale there has been much
gold discovered and placer mining has been
carried on to the amount of many thousands
of dollars, and in the early settling here
there were lively times. It was also the
county seat of Shoshone County until about
a year ago Wallace succeeded in having
the business of the County removed there,
as it is more accessible and has increased
faster in population and influence. There
is some mining still going on in Murray,
and the Mother-Lode, a famous mine which
has made several fortunes for its former
owners, is still yielding its yellow dust and
considered valuable property. Hydraulic
works are established here, and north of
the mine is Eagle, another mining settle-
ment, somewhat dilapitated. On the south
is Littlefield and Daddyville, where there
has been mining in former days, if not so
successful now. Chess is a mine still in
operation, with “great expectations” of its
near future.
	To one only sojourning temporarily there
is a sort of restfulness in the singing of the
pines and the murmuring of many rivulets;
and to one whose thoughts come more
readily or of dreaming, there is abundance


of time, about eighteen hours a day of
candle-light. The one drawback to posi-
tive enjoyment is that it rains and one can-
not indulge in walking, or even riding
through the pines, as on other occasions
when visiting up here earlier in the season
	There are some lovely little dells, and
cottages of logs nestled down among the
woods, where women live secluded from
gossip, assuredly; women who have fol-
lowed their husbands who had come to seek
fortunes imbedded in these mountain for-
ests. And these women have political
privileges not enjoyed by some of the
dwellers in large cities.


as a pleasant remembrance of two happy
parties in Wallace.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	MRS. J. ELLEN FOSTER, Attorney at
Law, visited Salt Lake City the first week
in November.
	THE November meteors which were ex-
pected on the 14th or 15th did not material-
ize very satisfactorily, although elaborate
preparations were made by astronomers in
many observatories. A few have been re-
ported from different localities, but not
more brilliant than have been observed at
unexpected occasions. Possibly in the year
of our Lord 1900, the prediction may be
fulfilled, at least, that is the general idea of
of those scientists who investigate the
heavenly bodies and phenomena.
	IT is announced that the young Queen
Wilhelmina, of the Netherlands, has given
her word to the Kaiser of Germany that
she will wed none other than the Crown
Prince Frederic William of Germany. Wil-
helmina is a year and nine months older
than the Crown Prince, she was nineteen
years old August 31, and he will be eigh-
teen years old May 6, 1900. A report has
been current that she was engaged to Prince
Ferdinand Joachim Albrecht of Prussia.
	THE Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies, in a speech
at a luncheon at Leicester, said the country
owed a debt of gratitude to Lord Salisbury
for the great improvement in Great Britain’s
position; and also remarked upon the exist-
ing relations of America and England, say-
ing: “The union, the alliance, if you please,
the understanding between these two great
nations, is indeed a guarantee of the peace
of the world.” He also made reference to
Germany in unmistakable terms, and in-
ferred there would be “a triple alliance be-
tween the Teutonic race and the two great
branches of the Anglo Saxons that would
be a potent influence in the future world.”
He spoke also of newspaper articles which
“had not spared the almost sacred person
of the Queen.”
	AMBASSADOR CHOATE, at the Thanksgiv-
ing dinner of the American Society, at the
Hotel Cecil in London, made a significant
speech on the present situation and the
keynote of which was the spreading of
American commerce, alluding to America,
Great Britain and Germany as the “three
great commercial nations of the world.” He
had asked a very brilliant woman what to
take for a basis of his remarks, and her
reply was, “Let England and America join
hands across the sea, and the peace of the
world will be assured.” In regard to the ex-
pansion of America the Ambassador said:
“I think we all agree with the declaration
of our Secretary of War, that the Pacific
cable ought to be laid by America from

[Column 2]
San Francisco to Manila. We have planted
our footsteps in the sea. How we have
progressed! First it was San Francisco,
then Hawaii, then Gauon, then Manila and
one step more and we will be the open door
to China.”
	BESIDES spending Thanksgiving with
the dear ones in Idaho, an afternoon Tea
and luncheon were given in honor of the
“Little Mother.” Wednesday, November
29, at two p. m., the elite of Wallace
assembled at the home of Mrs. Daisie D.
Allen, of Wallace, and although the rain
was simply pouring down, all were punctu-
al in coming. Knowing of the International
Council having been received by the Queen
in the quadrangle of Windsor Castle, and
entertained by Her Majesty at an elaborate
tea (almost a banquet) in St. George’s hall,
we yielded to the earnest request of the
ladies and related the incident and described
what we saw and remembered of this inter-
esting place, and personality of the Queen
of Great Britain and Empress of India.
The afternoon was a pleasant one. Mrs.
Allen as hostess did the honors gracefully,
and each guest had a card with the auto-
graph of the “Little Mother” and a quota-
tion from her book of poems, “Musings and
Memories.” “Tea,” which consisted of a
variety of delicate dishes handsomely
served, with fine china and the finest em-
broidered linen, in dainty patterns, the
tables decorated with evergreen; but the
brilliant conversation of intelligent women
surpasses luxuriant feasting, and to close
the sweet day, music and songs were added
to our enjoyment. Some of the sweetest
old songs were rendered by Mrs. Allen and
Mrs. Burke; a day long to be remembered.
	THE luncheon was given by Mrs. Mell
C. Woods, at her residence in Wallace, on
Saturday, December 2, at half past one p.
m. The rooms were artistically decorated
with carnations and chrysanthemums of
many colors, pink and white mostly, and
the beautiful evergreen coptis leaves that
grow in the mountains. The menu cards
were tied with ribbon and carna-
tions, and were unique in having every
dish in the course designated with a quota-
tion from Shakespeare, and left to the ladies
to guess, which afforded some amusement
and helped digestion, no doubt. The table
was daintily spread with elegant service,
and everything arranged in “apple pie
order”—fit for a queen; and the ladies
themselves were handsomely gowned in
rich apparel. After the fun of guessing
was over, the ladies discussed their favorite
poets, the book of fiction which had im-
pressed them most, and the greatest living
woman in America. To be sure, there
were differences of opinion on all these
questions, but they led to much thinking
and bringing out ideas, and proved that
women when gathered in parties nowadays
do not always gossip or talk of dress and
fashion. The guests were entertained in
the parlor afterwards with music and sing-
ing, Mrs. Allen, who has a particularly
fine voice, singing some favorite ballads,
and Mrs. Finch, tho’ very timid, sang
one song sweetly, after a great deal of en-
treaty. The Wallace ladies whom we
had the pleasure of meeting were very
gracious to the woman editor, but however
we try we cannot describe their dresses,
that is quite impossible; and, therefore, we
trust they will not consider the omission
ungracious, and accept this passing notice


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The October Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this city, Thursday, October 5,
1899, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Zina D. H. Young presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “Come let us
anew.” Prayer by President Ann C.
Woodbury. Singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Roll called, eigh-
teen presidents present. Minutes of morn-
ing conference of April last read and
accepted. Minutes of officers’ meeting in
April last read and accepted.
	President Young stated that the morning
would be occupied in hearing from the
presidents of the various Stakes, and made
some explanatory remarks in regard to
Stake conferences being held quarterly, or
semi-annually.
	President Susanna P. Booth, of Box
Elder Stake, and Lucy S. Cardon, of Cache
Stake, were in favor of conference twice a
year.
	President Zina Y. Card, of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Alberta Stake, stated that in
that Stake they only held conference twice
a year, and that there were so many organ-
izations, that was considered best for them.
	President Emma J. Bennett, Bingham, said
they only held two conferences in a year.
	President Mary A. Hyde, Sanpete, said
they had always held quarterly conferences,
but alternated from one part of the county
to another, which made a difference, and
did not seem to be too much. She was
willing to conform to the decision.
	President M. Isabella Horne, Salt Lake
Stake, thought it advisable under some
circumstances, but Salt Lake Stake was so
much larger than any other, and if there
were but two conferences it would certainly
be necessary for each branch to have an
annual meeting, which would enable them
to make a showing of their work.
	President Cornelia Mortensen, of San
Luis Stake, said it had never been conven-
ient to hold conferences but twice a year,
but the sisters were alive to their duties.
This was the first time she had enjoyed the
privilege of attending the General Confer-
ence, and was very grateful for the oppor-
tunity to do so.
	Dr. M. C. Roberts spoke of having anoth-
er class in nursing, students to come from
other Stakes, and gave some advice in re-
gard to what was needful, and said that we
should as a people employ when sick
those of our own faith, and made other re-
marks pertinent to the subject.
	President M. Isabella Horne addressed
the sisters, urging them to awake to their
duties and responsibilities and to attend
these conferences and get spiritual strength.
If the president was not able to attend send
a representative, some one authorized to
speak for the Stake, and to take home the
teaching given for the building up of the
society.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was glad
to hear about the nursing class, we want
several nurses in each branch society.
Spoke earnestly about paying tithing and
upon punctuality, it was an important thing
in life; also urged the sisters to be diligent
in the work for the dead, said Joseph the
Prophet was anxious upon this subject.
Spoke of our keeping our second estate, as


[Column 1]
well as our first, and be diligent in season
and out of season
	President Horne made some further re-
marks about the training of nurses, and that
it should be under the auspices of the
Relief Society. Felt very thankful it had
been such a success in this Stake. The
sick should be taken care of by experienced
sisters.
	President Mary A. Call, of Bannock
Stake, asked some questions about the
financial matters, which were answered
satisfactorily. She made some very appro-
priate remarks and urged all to faithfulness,
also to be humble.
	President Young alluded to the society
everywhere observing the 17th of March, and
was sure a blessing would follow. Referred
to the Prophet turning the key of knowl-
edge for women and the wonderful things
that had since transpired. “Remember
what blessings have been pronounced
upon the handmaids of the Lord since that
day. I feel as though I was looking upon
the faces of the angels when I look at my
sisters and know what they have passed
through and endured and borne, and the
sacrifices they have made. Let us live so
that we may know what is best for us.”
	After some instructions in reference to
tithing, which were in answer to questions
that had been asked by the sisters from a
distance, the congregation joined in singing
“Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.”
	The secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells, stated
that President Jane S. Richards and Presi-
dent Sarah J. Cannon were both absent
from the conference, detained at home
through sickness in their families, and re-
quested that they be mentioned in the
closing prayer, and that all unite their faith
in behalf of the sick, that they might be
restored to health.
	Benedicton was pronounced by President
Horne.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m. President Zina
D. H. Young presiding, opened with sing-
ing “Our God we raise to Thee.” Prayer
by President F. A. Hammond. Continued
by singing “For the strength of the hills.”
Minutes of afternoon session of the April
conference read and accepted. 
	President Mary Pitchforth, Juab Stake,
reported everything favorable of the society
except Eureka, which it was intended to
reorganize very soon. She rejoiced in the
work of the society and the Latter dispen-
sation of the fulness of times. Gave some
items from her experience and alluded
briefly to the time when Apostle Woodruff
came to England and baptized nearly all the
society of United Brethren, and she, a
young girl, offered herself for baptism. Her
family were all opposed, but she had been
thankful then and ever since that she heard
the true Gospel and had been able to en-
dure all trials and persecutions, and had
been abundantly blessed.
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, made
an excellent report of work accomplished,
and referred to the quantity of grain stored
and the good feeling manifest throughout
the county when she visited the Stake.
	President Lucy Grant, Woodruff Stake,
reported the society in good condition, had
visited all the branches during the summer.
They held officers’ meetings regularly.
Theirs being a new Stake, they had not yet
commenced to lay up grain, but intended to
this fall.
	Counselor Angeline Hinckley gave a

[Column 2]
good report of Millard Stake and of the
work the sisters were doing, trying to carry
out the counsel given by the General Board.
	Sister Priscilla Jennings spoke of her visit
abroad in her native land, and the geneal-
ogical work she had been able to do, also
some missionary work, and had met with
the Relief Society in Stratford, near Lon-
don. She had also spoken to the Relief
Society in Birmingham, and had spoken on
other occasions, and was willing to work in
the Lord’s vineyard. She alluded to the
time when the iceberg struck the City of
Rome on her return trip across the Atlantic,
and the assurance of safety she had, be-
cause of a dream in which she had con-
versed with her husband, the late Hon.
Wm. Jennings. Sister Jennings made
other interesting remarks.
	President Temperance Hinckley, Fre-
mont Stake, spoke of a visit through the
county recently made, when she had the
pleasure of having Sister L. L. Greene
Richards accompany her; the trip occupied
two weeks. Everywhere they had good
meetings and the Spirit of the Lord was
richly poured out. In some wards the
society was almost entirely composed of
young married women, in fact, all the
young married women in the Stake were
enrolled in the Relief Society.
	Counselor Mary A. White, Beaver Stake,
regretted President C. C. Shepherd was not
present, but she had visited the Stake with
her and found the society in all the branches
in good condition, the sisters striving to do
their whole duty. She also bore her testi-
mony and exhorted the sisters to teach their
children to be honest and industrious. We
should speak kindly to each other while
here in this life, and not wait until after
death, but do more good to each other now.
Virtue, she said, was better than riches, let
us be pure in our lives; and our tithing
should not be forgotten,
	Counselor Mary Bagley, Bear Lake Stake,
reported there was not a case of sickness in
their entire Stake, but there was a society
sister to attend to the sick. Spoke in the
highest terms of praise of President Julia
Lindsay and the good work she was
accomplishing, though she was 76 years of
age.
	President Jane S. Coleman, Wayne
Stake, gave a glowing account of what had
been done in that county in the interest of
silk-culture, the thousands of mulberry
trees put out last spring, and more would
be planted the coming year. They also
had several houses of their own and a
thousand bushels of wheat stored—an ex-
cellent showing throughout.
	Following this, President Zina D. H.
Young spoke most emphatically upon silk
culture, and enjoined it upon the society as a
duty that should be considered important.
Spoke of President Young’s work in this
direction, his advice to the Latter-day Saints
to make sericulture one of the chief indus-
tries of this country, and the blessings that
would follow if his counsel were obeyed.
Regretted the indifference of the people
and entreated the sisters to do their utmost
to promote the silk industry, and first of all,
to set out cuttings of the mulberry.
	Several of the sisters told what had been
done for silk in different places. President
John said three hundred pounds of cocoons
had been raised in Provo.
	President Hammond represented San
Juan Stake, in the absence of his wife. He
said he always had been interested in Relief
Society meetings, knew the sisters taught

[Column 3]
righteousness and virtue and every good
thing. They held conference at the same
time as the brethren, once a year, and it
took a month to do it, the distance was
so great. In Bluff ward they were
just about finishing a new Relief Society
hall. “I don’t know anything to limit the
good cause in which you are engaged—you
who have stood the battle and the breeze in
the building up of Zion in the waste places
of the earth. My blessing upon you and
your colaborers in righteousness every-
where. The mothers in Israel have estab-
lished through this society a grand school
for our sisters. Encourage each other to
persevere in the paths of wisdom, truth and
light, and may the Lord bless every effort
in the interest of truth.”
	Miss Bessie Edmonds favored the audience
with a beautiful song; her sweet voice was
like a peal of music from above. Professor
Evan Stephens kindly accompanied her on
the organ, to both of whom the sisters were
very grateful for the courtesy.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, realized the importance of the society
work. Since August she with other sis-
ters, had traveled over three hundred miles
and held nineteen meetings. In St. George
the silk industry had a good start, and much
had been done through united effort. She
gave some definite information from those
experienced judges who had examined the
quality of silk raised in Dixie, that was
quite encouraging. She always felt to
press forward in every good work, temporal
or spiritual. Bore a strong testimony of
the truth of the Gospel.
	President Joseph E. Taylor, of the Salt
Lake Stake, realized there was not time to
enter largely into one subject, but spoke
ardently of the silk industry, and of his
knowledge of President Brigham Young’s
efforts to establish it as a permanent industry
early in the settlement of Utah. He in-
structed the society to do all that was pos-
sible to make a success of the enterprise.
President Taylor referred incidentally to
other matters pertaining to the duties and
responsibilities of the sisters in the benevo-
lent work among the destitute, the sick and
the afflicted, and other obligations resting
upon the women of Zion, and blest them in
their noble work in the name of the Lord.
	President Zina D. H. Young made a few
closing remarks and announced the evening
meeting.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us.” Benedic-
tion, President Hammond.
	Evening meeting at 7 o’clock, President
Zina D. H. Young presiding, commenced
with singing “Glorious things of thee are
spoken,” by the Young Ladies’ choir of
the 20th ward, Mrs. Mary F. Kelly leader.
Prayer by Bishop Nymphas Murdock.
Singing, “Should you be inclined to cen-
sure.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke
upon the grand work of the Relief Society
and the love she had for such benevolent
labors; also spoke of the divine mission of
Joseph Smith and the greatness of his work
upon the earth. Rejoiced in the work now
being done in the Temples of our Lord,
said that was the work to which she was
devoting most of her time, and entreated
the sisters not to neglect those of their rela-
tives who had passed away without a
knowledge of the Gospel. “May we be able
to understand and receive the blessings of
the celestial kingdom with Joseph the
Prophet, who was one of the greatest men,
perhaps the greatest except the Savior, and


we shall know and be satisfied if we can
only be faithful, we shall meet those we
love who have gone behind the vail.”
	Sister Zina Y. Card spoke enthusiastically
for Canada.
	President Emma J. Bennett, Bingham
Stake, Idaho, referred especially to the
spirit and gifts manifest in the sisters’
meetings.
	The choir of young girls then sang an
anthem, “Leaf by Leaf.”
	Mary A. Rattenberry, of San Francisco,
reported the society there and referred to
the excellent benevolent work of the sisters
in that great city; also spoke of the visits
of Presidents Woodruff, Cannon and Smith
and of President Richards and his wife,
and of the good counsel they had given the
society, and the promises which had been
made to them if they continued in the work.
	Sister Caroline Bowman reported Sevier
Stake.
	President Cornelia Mortensen, San Luis
Stake, gave a very extended report of the
work done in that locality, praised the sis-
ters there for their noble efforts under so
many difficulties in pioneering a new settle-
ment. Referred with great satisfaction to
the union among the sisters, and that they
refrained from speaking ill of one another.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde spoke of the
good work accomplished in this Stake of
Zion, and especially the good work done by
the nurses trained under the auspices of the
Relief Society by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts.
The society had good supplies of the com-
forts necessary in attendance upon the sick,
and the faces of these nurses in the sick
room was like the angels ministering to
those in pain. Sister Hyde alluded to
her conversations with Professors in the
East while abroad in the spring, and their
astonishment concerning what she had told
them of our Relief Society charitable work.
	President Zina D. H. Young addressed
the sisters a few minutes. She said: “We
shall overcome by the word of testimony
and the power of the anointing.” She
then spoke in the gift of tongues, interpre-
tation given by Sister Card.
	The Young Ladies’ choir sang beautiful-
ly “Who are these arrayed in white.” Con-
ference adjourned till April, 1900. Prayer
by President Lucy S. Cardon.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


78				WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.				79


OBITUARY.
	RESOLUTION OF RESPECT.
On the death of Cornelia Pratt Driggs.

   WHEREAS, it has pleased the Great Creator to
take from this mortal sphere our beloved and re-
spected president of this (the Forest Dale) Relief
Society, Sister Cornelia Pratt Driggs, and
   WHEREAS, in her death we have lost a faithful
member and a true Latter-day Saint, one who was
ever ready to respond where her duty called her,
kind, charitable, and bearing all the instincts of
true womanhood; and we fully realize that in our
separation from her we have sustained an irrepar-
able loss, therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That we place a copy of these reso-
lutions upon the minutes of this society, and that
we tender our heartfelt sympathy to the husband
and family of the deceased.
						AGNES RUMEL, Sec.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	On the death of Sister Julia A. Tanner. 

   Sister Julia A. Tanner was born in Willough-
by, Ohio, Nov. 24, 1839, and died in Beaver City,
May 15, 1899.
   WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst a kind friend, sister and co-
laborer, Julia A. Tanner, be it 
   RESOLVED, That we strive, as a band of workers


and fellow associates, to emulate her example;
that her death has caused a vacancy in our midst,
and her loss we deeply feel.
	RESOLVED, That we realize that God calls from
our midst our esteemed associates and friends; that
He doeth all things for the best, and we must be
resigned to His holy will.
	RESOLVED, That we cherish her teachings as a
wise counselor, a loving mother, a friend to the
poor and needy, and a faithful member in our
society.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our record book, one be given to the
bereaved family, and one sent to t e WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication. 
JANE BICKLEY, Pres.
MARY T. WHITE, Sec.
	JANE ST. CLAIR GILLIES.
	Jane St. Clair Gillies was born in Flin, Perth-
shire, Scotland, May 5, 1816, She was the daugh-
ter of Daniel and Ann St. Clair, and was married
to Robert Gillies in 1843. She joined the Church
in Scotland while quite young, and emigrated to
this country in 1856, crossing the plains in Daniel
Jones' handcart company. She settled in Session’s
Settlement, and from there moved to Salt Lake
City, then to Beaver, where she remained. She
died in Circleville, August 28, 1899, while visiting
with her daughter.
	Sister Gillies was the president of the first
Primary organized in Beaver City, March 17,
1880. She was a continual worker from then
until the beginning of her sickness.  
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, God in His infinite mercy has seen fit
to call from our midst our beloved sister and co-
worker, Sister Jane St. Clair Gillies, be it
	RESOLVED, That, as members of the Relief
Society, we emulate her example and put into
practice the many kind teachings and the advice
given to us by her.
	RESOLVED, That we strive, as a band of sisters
and workers, to follow in the footsteps marked out
for us by her example, which she ever tried to put
into practice and set forth to her many friends and
associates.
	RESOLVED, That we ever remember the patience
our sister had in her long sufferings; she was never
known to complain in all she had to pass through,
and died as she had lived, a faithful sister, a true
mother and a loving friend to all.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication,
one be put on the Beaver Relief Society record
book and one given to the bereaved family, to
whom we extend our heartfelt sympathy.
JANE W. BICKLEY, Pres.
MARY T. WHITE, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.
NORTH LONDON RELIEF SOCIETY.
	We sisters of this branch send greetings
to our sisters in Zion, and would like you
to know how we are progressing in this
portion of our Father’s vineyard.
	We regret that our first report should be
tinged with sorrow, as we have to announce
the death of our president, Sister Ann
Blecket, who passed away September 24,
1899.
	Our sister joined the Church in Jersey
when a young woman, and died in the full
faith of the Gospel; and it will be some time
before we cease to miss her pleasant, smil-
ing face.
	The society was reorganized July 12,
1899, by yourself and President Hindley,
(as you know) with fourteen members. The
number of meetings held, four; visits paid,
thirty-five; money received, £2 7s 6d;
disbursed, £1 10s 11d; balance on hand, £1
2s 4d.
		N. E. BRADFORD, 1st Couns.
(Signed)	ELIZA A. BISHOP, Sec.
OMAHA RELIEF SOCIETY.
	With pleasure I send you a word to let
you know about the Relief Society here.
	We have a fine time when we meet, and


lovely meetings. I do not feel that I make
the best president, but I try to do the best
I can, and ask our Father in heaven to help
me in my labors. We dearly enjoy meet-
ings when the Saints are together. We
had six Elders at our Relief Society meet-
ing Wednesday evening, November 15, and
quite a great number of the Saints.
	I know we have the true Gospel, and I
am glad I have received this knowledge
and wish every one could see it as plainly
as I do.
	I am much pleased with the dear little
paper, the EXPONENT. I read everything
in it, and then wish there were more to
read.
	May God bless our work and always be
with us, and His spirit prompt us to do
right, is my prayer at all times. I wish I
lived in Utah with the people of the Latter-
day Saints, for I love to be with any of the
Saints. We enjoy the visits of the Elders
very much.
	With much love to you, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			ADDIE S. STONE,
				Pres. Omaha R. S.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The regular Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened in the 14th ward hall, October 14,
1899, President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “God moves
in a mysterious way.” Prayer by Annie
T. Hyde. Singing, “Arise, O glorious
Zion. Minutes read and accepted.
	President Horne said these meetings
gave her many thoughts for reflection. We
should testify of the goodness of God, for
our Savior has said “Those who will testi-
fy of me before men, I will testify of them
before my Father.” Alluded to the sorrow
our children meet with who marry outside
our faith. We should lovingly teach our
children to avoid making such attachments.
We should supply them with proper liter-
ature, and teach them the necessity of
having family prayers.
	Sister Diana Read spoke of the blessings
she had received through the faith that had
been exercised for her by her sisters during
her sickness.
	President Pond, from Pocatello, spoke of
the privilege of working in the Temple.
Exhorted the sisters to be kind to one
another and love one another.
	The congregation sang “Now let us re-
joice in the day of salvation.”
	Sister M.A. Hardy said she had belonged
to this Church for fifty years. Her family
deserted her and she left them for the Gos-
pel’s sake. Spoke of the benefit Relief
Society work had been to her.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of the
blessings she had received from her Heaven-
ly Father every day.
	Sister Mary Morris related a circumstance
of a sister who had been completely restored
to health through the administration of the
Elders.
	Another sister bore testimony, and Sister
Mary P. Silver said the Lord is bestowing
blessings upon us continually.
	Sister Stevens said the Lord will never
forsake us.
	Sister Julia S. Woolley spoke of the
necessity of keeping the Word of Wisdom
and becoming worthy mothers of children.
	Sister Almeda Young related a prophesy
of Brother George Goddard in regard to the
Word of Wisdom, which had been fulfilled,


that Box Elder Stake Sunday School officers
and teachers had conformed to this law.
	Three other sisters bore testimonies of
the truth of the Gospel.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Counselor
Stevenson.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS ANTHONY ON ROBERTS.
	Miss Anthony has been more or less
criticised for her remarks in opposition to
the resolution calling upon Congress to re-
fuse a seat to Brigham H. Roberts, which
was introduced at the recent Convention of
the New York State Federation of Wom-
en’s Clubs. She has been interviewed for
the daily press, and asked to define her
position more fully. She is reported as
saying:
	“When I opposed the motion presented
at the Federation in regard to Roberts, I
did so on the ground that the motion, as
worded, petitioned Congress to refuse to
admit Roberts as a member of the House of
Representatives, which, as I explained at
the time, it was useless to do. I was argu-
ing on the motion before the House. It
referred not to the removal of Robert’s after
he was seated, which is the only way Con-
gress can approach the matter, but to his
admission. I did not wish the Federation
to make itself ridiculous by solemnly taking
this action in regard to Roberts, and there-
by invoking scathing remarks from the
press of the country in reference to the in
ability of women to comprehend the sim-
plest matter of constitutional law.
	“After discussing this point, the question
of Roberts’s unfitness came up, and I said
what I believe in regard to the standard of
morality among men as a class. If it is so
uncommon for men to violate the sanctity
of the home, as some of these good women
would have us believe, why does a double
standard of morality exist for men and
women? I also hold that Roberts, whose
religion upholds him in his polygamous
life, is less a sinner than those men who
live in violation of the teachings of the
society in which they move.”
	“It has been suggested,” said the re-
porter, “that your opposition to the
Roberts resolution lies in the fact that the
women of Utah are enfranchised.”
	Miss Anthony laughed quietly and re-
plied:
	“As a matter of fact, Roberts is, person-
ally, strongly and bitterly opposed to wom-
an suffrage, and many women in Utah
voted against him for that reason.
	“I sincerely believe that one reason why
the Roberts resolutions as adopted by
the women’s clubs throughout the country,
have referred to the admission of Roberts
instead of his removal, is a faint realization
of the difficulty that would be encountered
in prefering charges of immorality against
him that would be worse than those that
could be brought to light in connection
with the very men upon whom would de-
volve the duty of denouncing Roberts.
People who live in glass houses should not
throw stones.”


INSIGNIA OF FASHIONABLE WOE. 
	Mrs. Jacob Bright, in announcing to her
friends, without the usual emblems of 
gloom, the death of her distinguished hus-


band, one of the great English reformers, 
and for many years a member of Parliament,
sets a good example for the common-sense 
women of America to follow. The pure, 
white paper, without the traditional black 
border, is headed with a laurel wreath, and 
a glorious rising sun, a prophecy of the 
higher life to come, and the following
statement:
JACOB BRIGHT
Entered the Land of Light
Nov. 7, 1899, Aged 78 years.
		There should not be a shadow of gloom 
		In aught that reminds us of thee.
	The recipient of a black-bordered letter is 
always oppressed with a transient sentiment 
of pain. Do we not all have sorrows and 
disappointments of our own, without being 
burdened with the troubles of others?
	I know an American lady who was so 
desirous of doing the right thing, on the 
death of her husband, that she made a 
journey to our metropolis to inquire of an 
English harness-maker the style for the 
equipment of her carriage, harness, coach-
man, footman, horses and dog, as her hus-
band was English, and she wished every-
thing done according to the custom of his 
native land. As the dog was expected to 
trot demurely under the coach, his collar 
was wound with black ribbon, with a large 
bow on the back.
	The wife, draped in the deepest black,
wore a long, double crape veil, that touched 
the ground, which style required should be 
kept over the face during the first year of
widowhood—a most uncomfortable and un-
healthy fashion.
	These mournful figures always call to 
mind the lines in Wesley’s hymn:
		Hark, from the tombs a doleful cry!
			Sinners, come view the ground, 
		Where you must shortly lie. 
	The Brights belong to a religious sect 
called Friends, (or Quakers) who never 
change their dress for these habiliments of
woe.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.


[Column 1]
90% OF AMERICAN WOMEN
wash dishes three times each day. If you are one
of these, wear a pair of “Goodyear” Rubber
Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent
Sent by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59 Agents
wanted. Address, M. O. Dept.,
M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Column 2]
[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[to the right of the logo]
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE.

			Leave Salt Lake City
No. 6	The “Fast Mall” for Chicago, St. Paul, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and
		Park City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7 00 a.m.
No. 2	The “Overland Limited” for Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11 45 a.m.
No. 4	The “Atlantic Express” for Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	6 40 p.m.
			Arrive Salt Lake City.
No. 5	The “Fast Mail” from Chicago, St. Louis,
		Omaha, Kansas City, Denver and Park
		City. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 00 p.m.
No. 1	The “Overland Limited” from Chicago, St.
		Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and Denver. .	3 00 p.m.
No 3	The “Pacific Express” from Chicago, St.
		Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
		Denver. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3 30 p.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 Main St.		Telephone 665.
					H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD.

Time Table in Effect October 15, 1899.

	Trains will arrive and depart at Salt Lake City daily as fol-
lows:
				ARRIVE:
From Ogden, Chicago, Omaha, St. Louis and Denver,	3:30 a.m
From Ogden, Portland, Butte, Helena and San Fran-
	cisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:05 a.m.
*From Milford, Sanpete, Provo and Intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:35 a.m.
From Ogden, Chicago, St. Louis, Omaha, Denver and
	San Francisco. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	3:00 p.m.
** From Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . .	4:00 p.m.
From Tintic and Mercur. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:30 p.m.
Cache Valley Express, from Preston, Logan, Ogden
	and intermediate points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	6:40 p.m.
From Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:50 p.m.
				DEPART.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	Cache Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:00 a.m.
For Tintic and Mercur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	7:55 a.m.
**For Garfield Beach, Tooele and Terminus. . . . . . . .	7:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Butte, Helena, Portland and intermediate
	points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	9:45 a.m.
For Ogden, Omaha, Chicago, Denver, St. Louis and
	San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	11:45 a.m.
*For Provo, Sanpete, Milford and intermediate points	5:30 p.m.
For Ogden, Denver, Omaha, St. Louis and Chicago. . .	6:40 p.m.
For Ogden, Butte, San Francisco and intermediate
	points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	8:45 p.m.
*Trains south of Juab do not run Sundays.
**Daily except Sunday.
City Ticket Office Under Masonic Hall, 2nd South St.
S.W. ECCLES,				D. E. BURLEY,
Gen. Traffic Manager.			Gen. P. nd T. A.
			W. H. T, BANCROF
		Vice-President and Gen’l Manager.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

