[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | August | Issue: 3 | Title: R. S. REPORTS. | Author: Unknown]

R. S. REPORTS.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence convened at Panguitch Tabernacle,
June 13, 1904, commencing at 10 a. m.
President Elizabeth DeLong presiding,
after the usual exercises of singing, prayer,
etc., a letter was read explaining that the
sisters that were to visit us were unable to
do so on account of the death of Apostle
Owen Woodruff’s wife as his mother was
one of the sisters appointed to visit us, and
she had to go, and get his little motherless
children.
	Wards were reported as follows: Pan
guitch Ward by President Mary B. Hey-
wood; Henrieville Ward by Sister C. E.
Savage; Escelanta Ward by President Mary
E. Alvy; Kingston Ward by President
Hannah E. Sudweeks; Tropic Ward by
Sister Sarah J. Hilton; Sister Barbara
Myers bore her testimony.
	Sister Mary H. Levy gave a report of her
visit to Salt Lake City to the Young Ladies
Conference. Sister Hannah A. Crosby
spoke on the opportunities of our yonng
people today. Sister Lyda Row gave a
report of the mothers work in Escelanta
Ward.
	President Elizabeth DeLong announced
that a lunch would be served during the
noon hour at the Relief Society Hall, for
all visiting sisters, and officers and mem-
bers of the choir. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m. Sister
Mammie T. Dodds gave a lecture on
Motherhood, Sister Annie K. Lee sang.
Sister Allie Clark spoke. Laura Montague
sang, Sister Maria L. Sargent, Sister Alice
Jane Cameron, Sister Margaret H. Clark
and President Elizabeth LeLong each spoke
briefly.
	MARGARET H. HAYCOCK, Secetary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
			
				Woman's Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months’
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
