CHARITY OF MORMON WOMEN.

	Charity is always illustrated by the figure of
a woman, and mankind have silently classed
this attribute as a womanly characteristic, and
called it the sister of Faith and Hope; and in
later years, women who spend a great portion
of their time in performing deeds of kindness
and benevolence, are designated as Sisters of
Charity. So closely associated is charity with
the life of the fair sex, that it is considered a
positive requisite of true womanly character.
	The world talk a great deal of charity, and
make a great ado about its loveliness, its excel-
lence, its charm, but though it sits admirably
on others, many persons are apt to admire the
mantle as an ideal beauty, who never really
don the garb, or cultivate the element in them-
selves. It sounds well, it is a pretty sentiment,
one likes, above all things, to realize it as a
part of the elements of that society with which
one mingles, but how hard it is to cherish it as
a part and portion of one's individual every-
day life.
	There is a large-hearted, open-handed charity
that ennobles and enriches the lives of both
men and women, for certainly if women have
this attribute largely developed they will im-
part the true germ to both sons and daughters;
this is the inevitable law of nature; but every
germ wants nourishment and proper cultiva-
tion, and the attributes possessed or inherited
resemble in many respects the order of nature's
vegetable kingdom. The exquisite germs re-
ceived as a precious heritage, placed in healthy
soil and carefully tended, grow and flourish,
and by and by blossom and ripen, producing
desirable fruits or results, but left in barren soil
without cultivation, are stinted, and wither
away: Then there is a custom or theory of
cultivation for all plants and all principles,
which, when adopted, promote fuller, richer
growth than to pursue all sorts of ways.
	Mormon women are anxious to ascertain and
pursue the highest and best methods in every
department of life and labor, and also in their
charities. They have a system of charity that
surpasses any other in its fitness and adapta-
tion to the circumstances of the people. We
allude to the institution called Relief Society;
but wishing not only to provide resources for
the present needs of the poor, the aged, the in-
firm and sick, but also to extend a still wider
field of benevolence, and enlarge the scope of
woman's labor beyond the to-day, and prepare
for emergencies in the coming future, Mormon
women have adopted a large hearted system of
public charity in the storing of grain, which
forms the staff of life.
	It is now over two years since this peculiar
enterprise was established, and from all parts
of the Territory reports reach us of the enjoy-
ment the sisters have in fulfilling this mission
of good works. It is a mission which impresses

[Column 2]
all who are truly charitable in tone and senti-
ment with the idea of its loftiness and sublim-
ity.
	Sisters, do you realize the privilege you
have, to store up grain against a day of want?
If you do, prove it by your most earnest and
energetic efforts now, when the Lord has
given such a bounteous harvest. The second
Annual Meeting of the several committees for
storing grain will be held in this city, Nov. 16;
and we hope previous to that time to receive
accurate reports from all parts of the Territory
stating the amount of grain on hand, and the
manner in which it is secured.
	We invite all who are interested in this grand
enterprise to attend the meeting and hear the
reports concerning this department of woman's
work. Due notice of the time and place of
holding it will be given through the "Deseret
News." One of the most active workers in
woman's cause in the East, an editor of a pa-
per devoted to the interests and advancement
of women, says, "I'm much interested in the
industries and labors of Mormon women, and
especially the storing of grain, and intend giv-
ing place soon to an article on the subject."
								[---]


[Column 1]
