		PLE OF INDUSTRY?

To what chaos is industry tending?  Its
insurgency increases.  Will its purturba-
tions ever end?  From being aggressive
will trade-unions become destructive forces?
Will the proletariat finally take the field,
and the capitalist have to fight for his life?
 Excited empty-handed labor seems on fire,
and the political economist, albeit[--] damp-
ing creature, seems powerless to extin-
guish it.  Doctrinal streams of "supply
and demand" poured upon it act but as
petroleum upon flame.  Organized capital
grinds industry as in the mystic mill of the
gods–very small.  The isolated laborer is
frightened, and flees to combination for
safety.  No protest that capital is [-]is friend
reassures him.  Terror has made him deaf,
and experience unbelieving.  Can the 
struggle of ages, made deadlier now by in-
creasing intelligence, end save but by the 
despotism of the knife?  Every  man asks
these questions, to which there is but one
answer. A new principle has entered in-
dustry, which has slowly awakened hope,
and will surely bring deliverince. Its 
name is co-operation.
   Wookmen will buy capital at its price in
the market, which will be ruled by the
risks of the enterprise in which they em-
ploy it.  That they propose to pay, whether
at the laborer's rate or at the Jenny Lind
rate.  When capital came into this field of
industry, men were necessitous and igno-
rant of its capacity for estimating its own
services.  Capitalists, therefore, hired labor,
paid it its ordinary price, and took all prof-
its.  Co-operative labor proposes to reverse
this process.  Its plan is to buy capital, pay
its full value, and itself take all profit. It
is more reasonable and better for society
and progress that men should own capital
than that capital should own men.  Capital
is the servant, men are the masters and
when capital is in its proper place there
will be no more discontent, no more con-
flicts of industry.  In competition capital
buys labor.  In co-operation labor buys
capital; the whole distinction of principle
lies there.  Capital is used in co-operation
and honestly paid for, but the capitalist is
excluded.  Capital is a commodity, not a 
person.  The worker is the sole person con-
cerned in co-operation.  The capitalist sells
his commodity to the workers.  The capi-
talist has no position but that of a lender,
no claim save for the interests for which he
bargains, and being paid that, he should
not be permitted to reappear as a partici-
pant in the profits of labor.  The capitalist
being paid his proper interest, he has no
more claim to any further payment than a
landlord has to a second rent, or a coal mer-
chant to a double discharge of his bill.
   True self-interest is in justice, which
gives all its force to the right and
against the wrong act or the wrong judg-
ment of others, lest self, losing force, sink
under the patronage of charity.  Industrial
interest consists in the command of means
of moderate competence by equitable asso-
ciation for the conduct of labor and division
of profits, without which labor is a ceaseless
strife, bringing the chance of splendor to
the few and certain precarlousness to the 
many–that danger and despair of every
state which equity in industry alone can
terminate.  This new principle of equity
has risen without glamour, it has grown
without friends, it has spread without con-
spiracy, and acquired power without injus-
tice. Stronger than the sword, and loftier
than charity, co operation gives to labor an
abiding grasp of its fruits, and supersedes
benevolence by rendering the industries
independent of it.  It seeks that organiza-
tion of labor and intelligence in which it
shall be impossible for the industrious to be
depraved, or mean, or poor, except by their
own choice or their own act, which can
bring no scandal and no remorse to society,
which provides that neither baseness nor
misery shall be any longer the necessity of
their condition.  All this cannot come soon,
but it will come surely as thought and
courage, patience and perseverance, shall
put in force the new principle of industry.
—G.J. Holyoke in the Nineteenth Century.


GOOD words do more than hard speeches;
as the sunbeams without any noise will
make the traveler take off his coat, which
all the blustering winds could not do, but
only make him bind it closer to him.
	"MY-dear," said a wife to her husband,
"I really think it is time we had a green-
house." "Well, my love, paint it any color
you please—red, white or green will suit
me," responded the husband.


