			IN MEMORIAM.

	It pleased our Heavenly Father to call to
Himself, on September 29, our beloved Sister
Lydia Ann Weiler Horne. She left a husband
and four children (one of them a little babe
six weeks old), and a circle of friends as exten-
sive as her acquaintance, to mourn her loss.
She possessed some of the most exquisite wo-
manly faculties and attributes. She exercised
a decided influence for good, which her sweet
memory will preserve. Her home was ever a
pleasant resort to those who associated with
her.
	For ten years she lived and labored with us,
in which time her example helped greatly to
elevate the tone and taste of society in our set-
tlement. For six years she was President of
our Relief Society, when her feeble health
would not admit of the responsibilities which
that position involved. She then acted for
three years as First Counselor to our present
President, Mrs. Sarah Copley, in which posi-
tion she made herself very useful till her
death. While her husband, Bishop Joseph S.
Horne, was on a recent mission to Switzerland
she was ever happy and hopeful. Her children
show what a mother can do by precept and ex-
ample. Her faith in God and His priesthood
was unfaltering, and but a few hours before her
death she said, "If it was not for the priest-
hood, I should not be here now."
	The funeral services were held in our school-
house, immediately before Br. Horne started
with the remains for S. L. City, where they,
according to her own request, were deposited.
Many loving friends assembled to take a last
look at that dear, gentle friend; and many ac-
companied them to the next settlement, Fay-
ette, where Bro. Horne warmly thanked his
friends for their sympathy and the kind feel-
ings thus expressed.				H. M.
	Gunnison, Oct. 15, 1878.

	DIED, of diphtheria, in Salt Lake City, Wed-
nesday afternoon, Oct. 16, little Roy Clawson,
youngest [-]on of H. B. and Ellen S. Clawson,
aged three years and one month. Roy was
born September 20, 1875. He did not appear
to suffer at all during his four days' illness, and
passed away as gently and sweetly as though
he was going to sleep. "Auntie, I'm done
playing," were the last words he ever spoke.
He was a most interesting child, affectionate
in his nature, and fondly attached to his little

[Column 2]
playmates, brothers and sisters; his death has
left a vacancy in the home circle that can
never be filled until the morning of the resur-
rection, when "mothers receive their dead to
life;" but the great Healer of all wounds helps
to make our griefs less poignant as he journeys
onward, and to all who seek it the Holy Spirit,
the Comforter, is given, which lifts the mourn-
er above sorrow and gives that consolation
which is an ever-abiding hope and trust in the
promises of God, and enables us to say, "God
knoweth best."
	We extend our sincere sympathies to the be-
reaved parents and family.

	"There is no flock, however watch'd and tended,
		But one dead lamb is there!
	There is no fireside, howe'er defended,
		But has one vacant chair."

	DIED, in Salt Lake City, Aug. 18, 1878, Flor-
ence Emily Dunford, youngest daughter of
Bishop George and Mrs. Sarah Dunford, aged
13 years, 8 months, and 24 days. Deceased was
born in St. Louis, Mo., Dec. 14, 1864. She was
a superior and promising girl, mature in devel-
opment, both physically and mentally, beyond
her years, and this was often remarked upon
by her relatives and those who were intimately
acquainted with her. She possessed some of
the finest womanly qualities, which rendered
her specially attractive to her schoolmates and
friends. In her home she was fondly cher-
ished, endearing herself to father, mother,
brothers and sisters, by her kindly manner and
thoughtfulness of the wishes and desires of
others. She had a tender heart, ever alive to
the sorrows of her associates, manifesting as
much interest in their troubles as if they were
her own. Miss Flossie (as she was usually
called) was a constant attendant at Miss Cook's
school for several years. At the exhibition
given at the close of the school last summer,
she recited "Infeiicissime," a very beautiful
and touching poem, the last words of which
are,

		"And the careless are the light—
			Light of heart and light of head;
		And ye robe the bride in white,—
			And in white ye shroud the dead."

Methinks I see her now as she stood there
then, in maidenly sweetness, full of life and
vigor and in the bloom of health and youthful
beauty. We sympathize most deeply with
the bereaved mother and friends, but feel as-
sured that with their dear Flossie all is well.


