	GREETING!

	Beloved Sisters: Having been recently chosen
as Superintendent of the branches of Y. L. M.
I. A. in this Stake of Zion, I feel desirous to
express, in a humble manner, my thanks for
the honor conferred upon me by my sisters in
electing me to fill so responsible a position. I
am thankful to my Heavenly Father that we,
the handmaidens of the Lord, are called to be
co-workers with the brethren in His work
in this the last dispensation. Sisters, do we
fully appreciate the privileges and blessings
we enjoy through the principles and institu-
tions of the holy Gospel? I know there are
many faithful sisters among the young ladies,
and I comprehend, though in a small degree
only, something of the future that lies before
them, and the need they have to qualify them-
selves for high and holy duties.
	I shall be pleased to visit the various
branches of the Y. L. M. I. A. in this county,
from time to time, whenever it will be most
convenient for the sisters to receive me. I
would say to the officers of Societies, be faith-
ful in advising and encouraging the young sis-
ters to assist in sustaining all home industries,


also home literature. The young ladies should
read the best books and papers, those that will
give them a knowledge of the principles of
eternal truth. There are many good books of
prose and poetry. The Harp of Zion is full of
inspiration, and is musical in expression and
delineation of its subjects. There are two vol-
umes of poems by Zion's sweet songstress, our
beloved Sister Eliza R. Snow, and the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT furnishes us with both prose
and poetry of a character adapted to the minds
of the women of Zion, and it should be sus-
tained by our young ladies as well as the older
ones; all have the privilege of contributing to
its columns. Great things will be required at
the hands of the teachers and instructors of
the young, and there is much need of wisdom
to discharge judiciously the duties devolving
upon them. May the blessing of God rest upon
the young ladies who are striving to be useful
in their day and generation, and upon all who
are co-workers in the great Latter-day work, is
the prayer of
	Your humble servant,
				MARY A. FREEZE.
			Superintendent Y. L. M. I. A.


[Column 1]
