		CONTINUED.
	This feast lasted three days, during which
time all in the vicinity of Kirtland who
would come were invited, and entertained
as courteously and generously as if they
had been able to extend hospitality instead
of receiving it. The Prophet Joseph and
his two Counselors being present each day,
talking, blessing, and comforting the poor,
by words of encouragement and their most
welcome presence; some are now living
who were present at that Feast, and many
have passed behind the vail. The Prophet
Joseph often referred to this particular Feast,
during his lifetime, and testified of the
great blessing he felt in associating with
the meek and humble ones whom the Lord
has said "He delights to own and bless."
He often said to me that it was preferable
and far superior to the elegant and select
parties he afterwards attended, and afford-
ed him much more genuine satisfaction;
and to me it was "a feast of fat things in-
deed; a season of rejoicing never to be for-
gotten. The Temple in Kirtland being
built and dedicated, the word of the Lord
to the Saints was to build up Missouri, and 
the Saints repaired thither as fast as cir-
cumstances would permit.
	Great manifestations of power were wit-
nessed in the Kirtland Temple; it used
oftentimes to seem as though it was illumi-
nated, and many and powerful were the
manifestations to those who were humble
and participated in the ordinances bestowed
upon the faithful Saints in that house. The
first partriarchal blessing meeting over
which Joseph Smith, Sen., presided was
one of the most striking and noticeable fea-
tures of that particular period of time. In
this meeting I received the gift of singing
inspirationally, and the first Song of Zion
ever given in the pure language was sung
by me then, and interpreted by Parley P.
Pratt, and written down; of which I have
preserved the original copy. It describes
the manner in which the ancient patriarchs
blessed their families, and gives some ac-
count of "Adam ondi Ahman."

In ancient days there lived a man;
Amidst a pleasant garden,
Where lovely flowers immortal bloom'd,
And shed around a rich perfume;
Behold, his name was Adam.

One of the nobles of the Earth,
Had mighty power in blessing;

[Column 2]
Received the Priesthood, and went forth
And blessed his seed, and gave the earth
Blessings for their possession.

He sealed them for eternal life,
And all their generations,
Who should obey the Gospel plan,
Down to the latest years of man—
A multitude of nations.

Isaac and Jacob, they in turn
Had power to bless their children;
Hence, Jacob by his faith did learn,
And gave directions for his bones
To be conveyed to Canaan.

By the same spirit, Joseph gave
A great and mighty blessing
To Ephraim, and Manasseh too,
Whereby their seed were carried through
Long travels, though distressing.

By that same faith they built a ship,
And crossed the mighty ocean.
Obtain'd the choicest land of Earth,
Foretold the great Messiah's birth,
And all the great commotion,
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
The Holy Priesthood long remain'd
In all its power and glory,
Until the Priests of God were slain,
Their records hid from wicked men
Within the hill Cumorah.

Their remnants sank in sorrow down,
Became a loathsome people,
To misery and sorrow doom'd,
Their pleasant fields o'erspread with gloom,
Ruled by a Gentile nation.

But now the Priesthood is restored,
And we partake its blessings;
Our parents and our children dear
With Joseph's remnants have a share
To latest generations.

As Adam blest his family
In Adam ondi Ahman,
So shall our aged father bless
His seed who dwell in righteousness
Upon the land of Zion.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
The Prophet Joseph promised me that I 
should never lose this gift if I would be
wise in using it; and his words have been
verified.
	My husband's partner in business had
been sent up to Jackson Co., Missouri, and
had opened a branch business there; and
according to the best of my recollection
about 1837, the Prophet Joseph called up-
on my husband to go up to Far West to pre-
side; we set about making preparations for
removal. My friends, who knew what deli-
cate health I had, and how unaccustomed I
was to any hardships, inconvenience, or
privation, looked upon it as almost certain
death for me to go into the wilderness, or
what seemed little better than a desert, or
wiiderness among Indians. My friends
tried to prevail on me to stay until my
husband should go and prepare a comfort-
able place for me and my children; but I 
had unbounded faith in the promises of Jo-
seph, that I should be able to go in safety,
and my trust in God was firm and unshrink-
ing. I bade adieu to my beloved home,
where I had anticipated spending all my
life, and where everything had been ar-
ranged according to my own ideas of taste
and beauty; to my dear friends, and my
kind and ever true Aunt Sarah, who had
been a mother indeed to me and mine. I
felt a tender yearning towards her, and 
had desired with all my heart to bring her
into the faith of the Everlasting Gospel,
but had never been even successful enough
to get her to believe in the least; she looked
upon me as one bereft of my senses; this 
was the hardest trial to me of all—to leave
one so true and faithful and devoted as she
had ever proved herself to me and mine,
alone, without children to comfort her; but
I believed I was serving my Heavenly Fa-
ther and the best interests of all my friends
by so doing. My children were so imbued
with the spirit of the Gospel, that although

[Column 3]
they were disappointed in their hopes and 
expectations in regard to obtaining a supe-
rior education such as we had sought to
stimulate them to obtain, previous to our
embracing the latter-day work; yet they
accepted this change in their worldly cir-
cumstances without a murmur. They were
devotedly attached to Joseph, and were
never weary of praying for him; and their
faith seemed perfect. In their innocence
and trust they believed truly the Lord
would hear and answer them, and they
firmly trusted in all the promises and bless-
ings pronounced upon them. With the 
earnest confidence and assurance of these
little children, I felt I could meet all oppo-
sition, and trusting in my Heavenly Father
come off victorious.
		To be continued.


