HEALTH.

	Health, thou precious boon, how early
are we forsaken by thee, how difficult to


regain thee. Why must I languish here,
when my soul loves to wrestle with the
many promises of success held out by am-
bition and hope. Sweet spirit of health, I
call you cruel! I pined, and to my com-
plaint there seemed to come a wall of re-
proach in answer; “I am chained, I am
bound, I cannot come till you loose my fet-
ters.” I loose thy fetters, I who so long to
hold thee to my bosom and call thee mine?
“Even so, to you, who formed the links one
by one.” I only answered, How? “Do
you not transgress the divine laws of God
and nature day by day? Are not the hours
given for sleep, when nature clothes herself
with the mantle of darkness, purloined by
thee, and given to employment, or pastime?
Has it not been written, “Retire early that
you may be refreshed?” Many times have
I gladly held thine eyelids down to give
thee warning, all unheeded by thee. How
many times when I am thine attendant at
the well-spread board I groan, for the cup
of boiling liquid is recklessly taken, which
retards digestion, and excites the brain and
body to inordinate action, only to leave it
more debilitated than before; your food
half masticated is left for your poor stom-
ach to labor with, and strong meats, rich
gravies, and many other things that divine
revelation has said are not good for man
are recklessly taken by thee; the night air
blows rudely on thy half-protected form,
but the tyrant fashion says, as others do
so you must. Many are the links that bind
me—fain would I touch the pale cheek with
rosy bloom, the wasted form with rounded
beauty, the pale lips with carmine, the
drooping eye with light of life, and cause
the chafing spirit to rejoice in the great
blessing of health. Maiden mine, I have
done.”
	For a time I mused—then thought found
words. And I have done all this, and yet I
thought to myself I served my God. Pa-
tiently must I regain, step by step, that
which folly has wrested from me, for well I
know that genius, ambition, power and
wealth are all as naught when deprived of
health, and let my prayer ascend on high,
and be answered on earth, that wisdom be
mine to know how to enjoy the blessings
which God is willing to bestow.
	Provo, Oct., 1878.	WINNIFRED.


[Column 1]
