WORK TO BE DONE.

	1st. Let all who failed to send 16th
amendment petitions to Washington last
winter, sign, circulate and mail them, pre-
paid (letter postage, remember) to our Re-
cording Secretary, Ellen H. Shelden, No.
1011 M Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.,
on or before the 25th of December, 1878,
that they may be in the hands of Sena-
[Column 2]
tors Hoar, Mitchell and Cameron when they
present their minority report, which we
hope and expect will be in the first week
in December. Please note, friends, that
we are not asking you to roll up a new peti-
tion to a new Congress, but simply to get
all the new names you can to send to the
2d session of the same Congress to add to
the 40,000 presented last winter.
	2d. To the 70,000 petitions for woman's
right of representation now before the 45th
Congress, we wish to add the weight of the
opinions of the friends of woman suffrage
in the Legislatures of the several States
and Territories. To secure such expres-
sion, we ask the suffragists throughout the
country to petition their respective Legis-
latures, asking them to pass resolutions re-
commending Congress to submit a 16th
amendment proposition to the States.
	3d. We ask the officers of the National
Woman Suffrage Association, representing
the different States, to call conventions at
their Capital city early in the session of
their Legislature, and make special effort
to secure action on the 16th amendment
resolution.
	4th. We urge the friends, everywhere,
to call public meetings, get the best local
speakers, and at the close of each meeting
take a standing vote on our 16th amend-
ment question, duly count it and send two
reports thereof, signed by the President
and Secretary of the meeting to our Secre-
tary, Ellen H. Sheldon, No. 1011 M. Street,
N. W. Washington, D. C., for the presenta-
tion to Congress, and two to the State Vice
President of the N. W. S. A. for presenta-
tion to your Legislature.
	5th. Let the Temperance organizations
of the country secure a vote of their mem-
bers upon our question and send reports
thereof duly signed by their officers on be-
half of the number who desire the enfran-
chisement of women.
	6th. Let every woman send to one of
the Senators or Representatives of her State
an individual petition to Congress for the
removal of her own political disabilities.
	7th. Let women by the hundreds and
thousands each address the Senators and
Representatives of her State, both in Con-
gress and Legislature, asking them to vote
for the 16th amendment resolution. Such
direct personal appeals, by voice or letter
will have far more weight than the same
words in the form of a petition, and will
compel our law-makers to feel that we are
not discouraged by their indifference or ad-
verse reports, but instead, are stimulated
to more earnest and determined efforts to
secure national protection in our citizen's
right to vote.
	8th	*	*	*	*
We ask our friends to copy petitions
in ink for themselves, in a clear, legible
hand, obtain signatures immediately and
forward, postage paid, to the proper place
and person—those for Congress to the Sec-
retary of the N. W. S. A., Ellen H. Shel-
don; No. 1011 M. Street, N. W. Washington,
D. C., on or before Nov. 25, 1878; those for
the Legislature to the Vice Pres. of the
N. W. S. A. of your State, on or before Jan.
1st, 1879.
	9th. For the whole thirty years of our
woman suffrage work the one great hin-
drance has been lack of money to meet the
necessary expenses, and to-day it is no ex-
ception. We need money to publish tracts,
send out lecturers, hold conventions, and
for other manifold purposes. We therefore
urge our friends everywhere to send contri-
butions by draft on New York or by P. O.

[Column 3]
Order to our Treasurer, Ellen C. Sargent,
1733 DeSales St., Washington, D. C.
	10th. And last, To save the National
Woman Suffrage Association the labor and
expense of printing and posting the tens of
thousands calls, appeals and petitions, which
we have heretofore incurred, (the past
year, alone, at cost of $1,000) we urge all
wishing to co-operate with us to subscribe,
at once, for the "National Citizen and Ballot
Box, which will hereafter be our medium
of communication with friends and work-
ers.
	On behalf Executive Committee N. W.
S. A.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Chairman.
	Rochester, Sept. 2, 1878.


