		HOME AFFAIRS.

	BY LETTER we learn that Sisters E. R.
Snow and E. Davis, who are making a tour
through some of the northern settlements,
were at Echo City on the 27th of October, in
the enjoyment of health, and rejoicing in their
labors.
	UTAH CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.—Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson intends establishing a musical
conservatoire on the Europen style. By this
means pupils may receive competent instruc-
tion in vocal and instrumental music much
cheaper than the usual terms. Dr. Ferguson is
a lady of superior culture, and has had the ad-
vantages of training in musical institutions
in Europe. She has the happy faculty of bring-
ing her pupils forward rapidly, and certainly
deserves patronage. She is also a teacher of
languages, elocution, dramatic reading, and,
indeed, is qualified to give instruction in all
the higher branches of education.
	ON THURSDAY, Oct. 24th, through courtesy
of Hon. George Q. Cannon, we had the plea-
sure of attending the Indian Commission party
in a railroad trip to the Old Telegraph Smelt-
ing, Concentrating and Leaching Works, a
little beyond the Junction of the Bingham
Cañon Railroad. There was a sufficient num-
ber to make the party a pleasant one, and as
most of the gentlemen and ladies were unac-
quainted with the process of smelting, concen-
trating and leaching, and as Prof. Holden was
ready to elucidate and explain, as also Mrs.
Holden, who seemed quite intelligent on the
subject, going through the establishment was
made specially interesting. The party con-
sisted of Senator Saunders of Nebraska; Sena-
tor McCreery of Kentucky, General Hooker of
Mississippi, and Dr. Stuart and Mr. Caldwell
of Minnesota, of the joint Indian Commission,
with several gentlemen from Camp Douglas,
Col. Trotter, Lieut. Patterson and others; from
the city Mayor Little, wife and daughters,
Prof. L. E. Holden and wife, Prof T. B. Lewis
and wife, Bishop Sharp and daughter, the re-
porters for the "Deseret News" and "Salt Lake
Herald," and several other young people, who,
with the genial flow of wit and humor, made
the conversation lively, and the time sped
swiftly as also the train.
	THE YOUNG Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association of the Eleventh Ward celebrated

[Column 2]
their Seventh Anniversary Friday, Oct. 18, in
the Ward Meeting House; Mrs. Mary A. Freeze
presiding. There were present as visitors Pres
Angus M. Cannon and several brethren of the
ward, Mrs. M. I. Horne, President of Relief
Societies of Salt Lake Co., and her Counselors,
Mrs. E. S. Taylor and S. M. Heywood, Mrs.
Phebe Woodruff and Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
	After singing and prayer, Ass't Secretary
Miss Alice Freeze read the minutes of the last
meeting, and Treasurer Mrs. Louie Felt read
the Financial Report for the past year, which
was a very creditable one, there having been
donated by the Society $193 00, which had
been disbursed to the Temple, to the storing of
grain, and to charitable purposes. Next fol-
lowed an essay by Mrs. E. R. Shipp, M. D.
Pres. Cannon spoke eloquently on the estab-
lishing of Mutual Improvement Associations
and their object; also upon the necessity of
sustaining home industries. Mrs. Horne made
some excellent remarks, and was followed by
the other lady visitors, all of whom gave good
instructions. Counselor E. R. Shipp, in be-
half of the Association, presented to the Presi-
dent, Mrs. Freeze, an elegant hair wreath,
nicely framed; the wreath being composed
entirely of the hair of the members, accompa-
nied by a poem written by Mrs. Shipp and
dedicated to Mrs. Freeze, who responded in a
few words, it being wholly a surprise to her.
The meeting adjourned for one year; and the 
company sat down to a choice repast which
had been arranged by the young ladies. A good
spirit pervaded the assembly, and all felt that
the time had been well spent.
	IN COMPANY with Sisters Zina D. and Martha
B. Young, we recently made a tour through
some of the settlements in Utah County, in
the interest of th[-] Relief Societies and Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations.
We left this city on Wednesday morning, Oct.
16, and was absent four days; visited Lehi,
American Fork, Spanish Fork, Goshen, Pleas-
ant Grove, and attended nine meetings. The
Bishops and brethren in the various lo[-]alities
came out to the sisters' meetings, manifesting
the greatest interest in their labors. Under
the direction of the Bishops and Relief Socie-
ties eight Primary Associctions were organized.
Much general instruction was given in regard
to woman's work in connection with these So-
cieties, all of which was sanctioned by the
Bishops; the good results of the sisters' labors
are everywhere becoming apparent.
	At Spanish Fork we found the meeting house
decorated with a great variety of needle and
ornamental work of various kinds, designs and
patterns, in honor of their Annual Meeting.
We were all both surprised and delighted to
see that so much had been done by the Society.
The report was excellent. At Goshen we met
with a similar surprise, the house being very
beautifully decorated, as though it had been
for a festival instead of a meeting; indeed, the
effect seemed to be inspiring. It was also the
Annual Meeting of the Relief Society of
Go[-]hen.  There were visitors from several other
settlements—Spanish Fork, Santaquin and
Spring Lake, among whom were Bishop Halla-
day of Santaquin, and Mrs. E. J. Stickney,
President of Santaquin R. S, Mrs. M. Fergu-
son, President of Spanish Fork. Their report
was also very creditable. In the evening we
met with the Y. L. M. I. A., a large number
of young men also being present; after the
evening had been spent in speaking and other
religious exercises, Mrs Christina Higginson
read a poem she had composed for the occasion,
as a welcome to the sisters who had come to
visit them.


Saturday morning the little children were
called together and were organized into a Pri-
mary Association. Everywhere we went we
were most cordially welcomed and hospitably
entertained, and the best feelings of the peo-
ple seemed to be drawn out in supporting the
advancement of women in the home indus-
tries, storing of grain, silk-culture, i[-] fact all
spiritual, mental and industrial progression.
	The weather was fine, the country air brac-
ing, and the picture which presented ittelf on
all sides was pleasing. Peaceful villages nes-
t[-]ed in the valleys, with fields, just shorn of
their beauty, lying bare, while the numerous
stacks and cornricks told of the plenteous har-
vests; orchards just turned brown and purple,
and shrubbery, nipped with frost, in all the va-
rieties of shade, cattle grazing on the hills, or
lowing in the farmyards, herds of sheep nip-
ping closer the short grass, stands of beehives,
and a thousand other pastoral beauties, that
bespoke the thrift and industry of the people.
How one accustomed to the city rejoices in a
visit to the country, where all is simple and
rustic, and the very air of hospitality is in it-
self exhilarating. In this mountainous land
wherever we go there is variety in the scenery,
land at this season of the year the rich hues of
autumn foliage lends another charm to the
mountain scenery. The maple, the mountain
ash, the scrub oak and ivy are ablaze with
scarlet, or royally robed in purple.
	Everywhere prosperity seems to smile upon
the homes of the Saints, and the blessings of
God crown their labors. One of the most pleas-
ing things in our experience in these visits is
to see the little children, boys and girls, called
together in the Primary Associations; their
smiling faces glowing with health, their eyes
sparkling with intelligence, watching the
speakers, anxiously expectant, and desirous
to learn their part in the programme of the
meeting.
	We return our thanks to the brethren and
sisters who so cordially entertained our party,
and conveyed us all from place, and especially
the Bishops who opened the meeting houses
for the accomodation of the sisters, extending
them every privilege possible to make the
meetings pleasant, and honoring the occasion
with their presence and hearty approval of the
sisters' works.


