PAPER.

	What shall we do with our daughters?
Give them a good school education; teach
them to cook healthy food. Teach them to
wash, to iron, to mend stockings, to sew on
buttons, to maks their own clothes and a
well-fitting shirt. Teach them to bake; to
know that good cooking saves medicine.
Teach them that a dollar is worth one hun-
dred cents; that only those are saving who
spend less than they receive, and that what-
ever more is spent tends to impoverish.
Teach them that they are much better
dressed in strong cotton garments than in
silk, if they are in debt. Teach them that
one round, full face is worth more than
fifty beautiful consumptive ones. Teach
them to wear strong shoes. Teach them to
make good purchases, and see to the reck-
oning of their accounts. Teach them that
they spoil God's image when they lace
tightly. Teach them good common-sense,
confidence, self-reliance and industry.
Teach them to do garden work and enjoy
nature. Teach them likewise, if they have
money enough, music, painting and all arts,
remembering that these things are second-
ary. Teach them that walking is much
better than riding, and that wild flowers
are very beautiful to those who observe
them. Teach them to despise all make-
believes, and that one should say yes or 
no, when one really means it. Teach them
that happiness in marriage depends neither
upon the station nor the wealth of the hus-
band, but upon his character.
	If you have taught your daughters all
this, and made them understand it fully,
then let them when the time comes, marry
in perfect confidence; they will be sure to
find their way without further assistance.—
Colorado Farmer.


WORSE THAN NONE.—A bad husband is
infinitely worse than none. Girls, never
marry a fellow who is ashamed to carry a
bundle; who lies in bed until breakfast
and until his father has opened his shop,
or office, and swept it out; who frequents
taverns, bowling-saloons, prize fights, etc.;
who owes his tailor, shoemaker, washerwo-
man, jeweler, barber, printer and landlady,
and never pays his debts; who is always
talking about his acquaintances, and con-
demning them; whose tongue is always
running about nonsense; who thinks he is
the greatest man in the neighborhood, and
yet whom every one despises and shuns.
We say never marry a fellow with all or
any of these qualifications, no matter how
handsome he is, or how agreeable he can
make himself on occasions. He will make
a bad husband.—Waverly Magazine.


