SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Salt
Lake Stake of Zion was held in the large
Tabernacle in this city, Oct. 5th, commenc-
ing at 10 a. m., Elder Angus M. Cannon
presiding. There was a fair representation
of the officers of the Stake present. All
the wards were represented, except the
20th and North Jordan Wards. After the 
prayer and singing were concluded, a sta-
tistical report of the Stake for the Quarter
ending Aug. 31st, was read; this report in-
cluding also the number of persons drawing
support, the amount of support drawn, and
the amount of fast-day donations in this
Stake.
	A financial report of the Relief Societies
of this Stake, as follows: Wheat on hand,
stored by the Central Grain Committee,
1525 bushels; stored by branch Societies of
the Stake, 4,632 bu.; stored during the
past quarter, 592 bu.; total now on hand,
6,749 bu.; received in cash and property,
$3,747 21; disbursments in cash and prop-
erty, $1,621 79.
	Letter from the Superintendent and As-
sistants of the Sunday Schools of the Stake,
representing them as everywhere in a
prosperous condition. Report from the
New Tabernacle committee, in response to
an allotment made to the various wards.
President Joseph Young made some re-
marks on the duties of the Seventies. Pres.
Joseph E. Taylor presented the authorities
of the Stake, who were unanimously sus-
tained as at last Conference, with some few
exceptions and changes. Elder Orson F.
Whitney was sustained as Bishop of the
18th Ward, in place of Elder Lorenzo D.
Young, whose resignation had been ac-
cepted; Robert Patrick and Wm. B. Barton 
as his Counselors. The leader and members
of the Tabernacle Choir, the President and
Counselors of the Scandinavian meetings
were also sustained. Also Mrs. M. I. Horne
as President of Relief Societies, and her
Counselors, Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Mrs. S.
M. Heywood. Superintendents and assis-
tants of Sunday Schools were sustained as
previously:
	Pres. Angus M. Cannon then made some
remarks upon the business matters of the
Stake, and the conduct of men holding po-
sitions. He said: "Those who disgrace
the positions they occupy by drinking and
other evil practices, will be removed, and
more worthy men appointed in their place;
for these positions are important, and those
sustained in them must wield a proper in-
fluence among the people." He said, in
answer to a question that had been asked,
that women could only hold the priesthood
in connection with their husbands; man
held the priesthood independent of woman.
The sisters have a right to anoint the sick,
and pray the Father to heal them, and to
exercise that faith that will prevail with
God; but women must be careful how they
use the authority of the priesthood in ad-
ministering to the sick.
In the afternoon the time was occupied
by Presidents J. E. Taylor and Angus M. 
Cannon, Apostle Orson Pratt and Pres. John
Taylor, in giving general instruction to the
Saints on various subjects, both of a tem-
poral and spiritual character. The Confer-
ence adjourned sine die.


