THE OBJECT OF LIFE.

	Oft I pause and ask myself the question,
What is the object of life?  There certainly
must be a grand and holy purpose at the
foundation of our creation, else why this
innate louging and thirst for knowledge -
this perpetual desire for improvement and
advancement. We meet often, and our
souls feast together in the good things of
the Lord.  Our religion is to us a constant
source of wealth, still we never become sa-
tiated, we are ever ready and anxious to
partake of a spiritual feast.  I have reflect-
ed upon this, and feel that our Heavenly
Father has implanted these feelings and
desires in our hearts, that this earthly pro-
bation may not be in vain.  And the object
of this life must be to test us, to try us in
all things, and to make us more "perfect,
even as our Father in Heaven is perfect."
We may feel that we are far from this, but
it is by overcoming the small things, and
being able to bear the little trials and per-
plexities of life patiently and meekly,
striving to profit by our daily experiences,
that we are enabled to become more perfect,
overcoming our weaknesses and not allow-
ing them to overcome us.  We must become
perfect, even as our Father in Heaven is
perfect."  This is a great undertaking for
us all; but let us date from this time a no-
bler life, and try to make each day better
than the last, and we will find the task, will
gradually become lighter and more easy of
accomplishment.
	In order to make the most rapid progress,
in any work, we must fully reailze and sense
the magnitude of the undertaking.  To be-
come perfect requires constant determina-
tion and continued labor.  We must think
no evil, and then we will be sure to act none.
Our bodies should be kept pure, cleanly and
sacred, that they may be fit temples for the
indwelling of the Holy Spirit.  Though
our clothing may not be of the finest and
most expensive quality, we can have it
cleanly and so fashioned as to give grace
and freedom to our movements, and con-
duce to our health and comfort.  It is just
as much our duty to guard and preserve
our bodies as our spirits; for there are laws
that govern our physical as well as our
spiritual natures, and just so sure as we
break one of these laws we must pay the
penalty.
	We should seek to improve in every
sense of the word.  We imagine angelic
beings as all that is pure, good, graceful,
refined and beautiful; then let us strive to
be like unto them, and improve in our in-
tercourse and deportment by being affable
and obliging.  What a small thing is a word,
but when spoken kindly how much pleasure
and happiness it gives to the oft world-weary
heart.  Let us from this time endeavor to im-
part joy and gladness to the hearts of others,
and our own hearts will be much lighter
and happier; and will we not be thus drift-
ing nearer that object of life, Perfection?
Let us cease our slang phrases and uncouth
sayings, and use only that language to which
the best cultivated and purest beings would
love to listen, and speak in those tones and
that spirit that would cause the angels to
linger near.  And our actions - how strictly
we should guard them.  Unkind thoughts
may unbidden come, harsh words may be
impulsively uttered, but an unwise act we
can never recall.  Then let us watch our-
selves constantly and prayerfully, asking
the aid of Father, who is ever merciful,
and He will bless and assist us in our ear-
nest efforts to become "perfect, even as He
is perfect."
									E. R. S.
S. L. City, Oct. 18, 1878.


