WORK DONE.

	Since the assembling of the first regular
session, Dec. 3d, 1877, forty thousand men
and women have petitioned Congress for a
16th amendment prohibiting States from
disfranchising United States citizens on ac-
count of sex. The signatures were obtained
by 1,020 women in 425 towns, 125 Congres-
sional districts, 35 States and five Territo-
ries, and duly presented to Congress by 55
Senators and 100 Representatives.
	Jan. 10th, 1878, Senator Sargent, of Cali-
fornia, introduced a joint resolution propos-
ing a 16th amendment for the enfranchis-
ment of woman.
	Jan. 11th and 12th the Senate Committee
reported adversely; their report is now on
the [-]alendar, subject to action at the next
session of Congress. The Senators endors-
ing it are Wadleigh, N. H.; McMillan,
Minn.; Saulsbury, Del.; Merriman, S. C.;
Hill, Ga., and Ingalls, Kansas. Those in
favor of the 16th Amendment, Senators
Hoar, Mass., Mitchell, Oregon and Camer-
on, Wis., are expected to bring in a favor-
able miority report at the opening of the
second session. December next.
	Feb. 5th, the House Judiciary Commit-
tee voted upon a resolution recommending
our proposed 16th amendment, which re-
sulted in a tie; Yeas, Lapham, N. Y.;
Lynde, Wis.; Frye, Me.; Butler, Mass.;
Conger, Mich. Nays, Knott, Ky.; Hart-
ridge, Ga.; Stenger, Penn.; McMahan,
Ohio; Culberson, Texas. Absent, Harris of
Virginia; who has declared himself open to
conviction.
	During the last session of Congress the
temperance women of the nation sent up a
petition of 30,000, praying for "Home Pro-
tection." Though asking to have their
opinions counted on the one question of
licensing the liquor traffic, we may right-
fully add them to our 40,000, thus making
us a 70,000 prayer for the national protec-
tion of women in their citizen's right to a
voice in the government.
	The bill admitting women to practice be-
fore the Supreme Court unanimously re-
ported by the Judiciary Committee and
passed in the House of Representatives by
a vote of 169 to 87, stands upon the Senate
calendar with adverse report of its Judi-
ciary Committee to be acted upon at the
coming session.
	The individual petitions of 300 women of
the various States, asking Congress to re-
move their political disabilities, received
no attention—were not even noticed by ad-
verse reports—while similar petitions from
nine disfranchised men were each promptly
acted upon, and their political rights re-
stored.

