			FANTS.

	A gentleman of much experience and
sound judgment remarks, that many a little
grave is filled from no other cause than the
imprudent and unreasonable manner in
which a tender but ignorant mother treats
her child.
	She goes with it to the table, where all
kinds of food are prepared; baby coos and
catches at her knife, or spoon, with its tiny
fingers, and if the mother herself does not
think of it, some one else imagines that
baby wants a taste of pie, or pudding, or
something else, and mother, or auntie
having no realizing sense of how small a
particle of rich food may distress the little
stomach not accustomed to it, keeps giving
it a little of first one dainty article and then
another, till presently baby begins to fret,
and then it wants a spoonful of tea or coffee
and gets it; and then cries and worries,
and mama "can't tell what ails it!" Then
it must have some camphor or panacea, and
be jolted and trotted and shaken. until its
flesh is so sore it cannot be moved or
touched without experiencing pain; so it
screams and moans until, doubtless, it be-
comes an immaculate martyr, victimized
by medicines for cold, consumption, lung
fever, &c., while the sole cause of its suf-
fering and death might justly be attributed
to its swallowing a very small amount of
food, too rich or too strenuous for the little
unprepared stomach to digest. And yet
the poor, stricken mother feels that she has
done all in her power to save the life of her
precious darling, when, she is at last com-
pelled to lay it away out of sight. Study
human nature, mothers; a proper under-
standing of it is invaluable.
						LULA.


Extract from a letter of one of the Di-
rectors of the Eastern Counties railway,
England, to Mrs. Hannah T. King:
	"You speak of your new locomotive of
thirty-two tons; ours now are more than
double that! In the early times, an engine
weighing twenty tons was considered ab-
surd, and impossible to run! George Steph-
enson, the inventor, was laughed at, before
a committee of the House of Commons, for
daring to hint that a locomotive might be
worked at fifteen miles an hour; now, it is
worked on the lines at sixty miles an hour,
with a heavy train behind it! A frightful
speed, you would think, if you could stand
and see it pass."


FEW are sufficiently wise to prefer
censure which is useful, to praise which is
treacherous.


