TRANSMISSION.

	Jean Ingelow, in her poem of "Margaret
at the Mere Side," tells, in her own sweet,
dreamy fashion, the story of a fair girl—a
woman in years, but dumb and always to be
a child in intellect—who sat hour by hour,
and day by day, "on the gray stone beneath
the sycamore",—innocent, wistful, sad, al-
ways waiting, always gazing down at the mere.
Her mother had come there a six months'
bride, to see her husband's boat go down the
stream, never to return;

"And she with weeping sore
Peered in the water-flags unceasingly.
*	*	*	*	*
And, after, desolate she sat alone
And mourned refusing to be comforted,
On the gray stone—the moss embroidered stone,
Till, when the days grew short, a child was born
To the dead father underneath the wave"

—A child whose dumb, pensive soul was, by
the subtle sympathy of nature, to be stamped
for life with a grief she never knew.
	Look at anothe picture—from Miss Phelps'
"Silent Partner"—a scene in the pinched, 
worn, driven life of New England factory
girls. Catty—poor, deaf, dumb, repulsive
Catty—had fallen asleep. "Her long fin-
gers moved a little, framing broken words.

[Column 2]
Even in her dreams, this miserable creature
bore about her a dull sense of denial and
distress. Even in her dreams, she listened 
for what she never heard, and spoke that
which no one understood.'
	'Mother used to say', said sip, under her
breath, 'that it was the noise.'
	'The noise?'
	'The noise of the wheels. She said they
beat about in her head. She came home o'
nights, and says to herself, "The baby 'll
never hear in this world, unless she hears
the wheels," and sure enough,' Sip lifted her
face to Perley's with a look of awe—'it is
true enough, that Catty hears the wheels,
but never anything beside.'"
	Cowan and Mrs. Duffey, and Joseph Cook,
in his grand, brave way, will tell us of scores
of wonders like this, but let us take just one
scene from Mrs. Kirby's "Transmission."
We see a young wife stung and tortured by
the daily desertion and faithlesness of him
who should have been her stay and comfort.
We see her patiently, bravely, resolutely
turning away from the sight and feeling of
this torment. We see her—and we think she 
must have asked Heaven's help—constantly
and firmly putting aside and treading down
every burning thought, every vengeful feel-
ing. She did this not for herself, but for the
sake of an innocent soul which she knew
would reflect her own. She had her reward 
in one who grew up before her, pure, sweet,
strong and calm. She had liften him above
dark and petty things into the bright, free
atmosphere of great souls.
	When will the awful significance of these
things dawn upo[-] men and women? When
shall the ideal mother come to her high vo-
cation carefully and reverently, as an artist
comes to her marbles, clothed with strength,
dowered with wisdom, and baptized with
purity and love? When shall she be upheld
and comforted by a husband as pure, as rev-
erent, as herself?
	Do we see all the meaning of Miss Phelps'
ideal marriage? "With her, he is a crowned 
creature; with him she is a free one." Hus-
band of to-day, do you not see that so soon
as you enslave this free creature, your own
royalty, and that of your children, is gone?
So sure as you bind her down upon the altar
of a lower nature, there shall creep forth, out
of the blood of sacrificed womanhood a
swarm of evil creatures that shall look at
you and reproach you, out of the eyes of
your children. 		MARY L. GRIFFITH.
	Woman's Words.


