PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	Dear Editor:—According to your instructions
my First Counselor and myself visited the 
houses, and a[-]certained the number of chil-
dren between the ages of four and ten to be
one hundred and four.
	We held our First Primary Meeting on 
Thursday; the 24th inst., at the school house;
there were fifty-two names enrolled, viz.
twenty-five girls and twenty-seven boys, and 
we expect more.
	Bishop Wm. Price met with us; we opened
our meeting by singing and prayer, after which
I asked the children some questions, and if
they remembered what Sister Zina taught
them; which I found they did.
	Bishop Price then talked to them a while;
among other things he told them they must
be orderly and obedient. I then asked them to
rise and thank the Bishop for what he had
said, which they did by bowing and saying
"Thank you, sir." I then appointed a little
boy as monitor for the boys' side, and a little
girl likewise to the girls.
	Sister M. A. Till spoke a few words, by re-
quest; Counselor Lucy Taylor followed. After
which I appointed the meetings for Saturdays,
at 3 o'clock p. m. precisely. Closed by singing
"Gleaners in the harvest field," and Lucy
Taylor dismissed by prayer.
	The names of the officers are as follows:

	Sarah Roberts, President.
	Lucy Taylor,			} Counselors,
	Mary Ann Gardner,	}
	M. A. Till, Secretary,
	Maggie Higginson, Ass't Sec'y.
		Very respectfully,
				SARAH ROBERTS, President.
						M. A. TILL, Secretary.
	Go[-]hen, Oct. 20, 1878.


THE SIXTH Annual Congress of the Asso-
ciation for the advancement of women was
held in Providence, R. I., Oct. 9 and 10,
Mrs. Kate M. Doggett, of Chicago, presid-
ing, "charming her audience by her genial
yet dignified manner." There were present
many noted workers in woman's pregres-
sion. There were both day and evening
sessions, and papers were read from cele-
brated writers and thinkers on popular sub-
jects of interest, and time given to discuss-
ing their merits. The notices we have
seen of this Congress agree in pronouncing
it a great success.


[Column 1]
John Taylor, Pres't.	Wm. Jennings. Vice-pres't.
DESERET TANNING & MANUFAC'G ASSOCI'N,
Manufacturers and Dealers in
BOOTS, SHOES AND LEATHER.
TANNERY, 19th Ward, Salesroom and Factory, at the
"BIG BOOT!" 87 East Temple Street, Salt
Lake City. All those who desire to aid home manufac-
ture, and at the same time pu[-]chase Boots and Shoes
of the most reliab e quality at the most Moderate Prices,
should call or address orders o
WM. H. ROWE,
