				THE STORM.

		The vessel tosses here and there,
		For storm the sailors her prepare,
		Bestowing on her every care,
		Heaven, preserve them where they are.

		Through the long night the lightnings flash,
		Kept lighting up the waves,that dash
		Against the shivering ship and masts,
		The shrieking wind in terror passed.

		The thunder pealed its notes of doom,
		And pelting rain gave added gloom;
		The end seemed coming very soon,
		As louder crashed the thunder's boom.

		The creaking ship gave groan for groan,
		The women and the children moan;
		Will ever come another morn?
		Will they outride the beating storm?

		Then prayers arose from Saints on board,
		An Elder then the tempest dared,

[Column Two]

		On deck rebuked by hand and word
		The storm, and God in heaven heard.
		
		The wind seemed gently lulled to sleep,
		Soon waves stopped towering o’er the deep,
		For God His Saints will ever keep,
		Glory ever be to Him!

		The morning came in splendor bright
		The ocean’s jeweled bosom, light
		Bore white capped waves into the sight;
		The ship was swiftly sailing right.

	The storm was past and the Saints felt that
the Lord had indeed stilled the tempest, and
grateful prayers arose to Him, thanking Him
for their preservation.	
	The weary days wore on, the sun rising over
the vast expanse of water, and at evening dip-
ping its golden disk below the waves and dis-
appearing, until monotony seemed to settle
down upon the passengers, but at last the cry
of land brought all on deck, and again the
sight of green verdure, tropical trees, rocks,
rivulets, and houses, gave animation to the
weary throng that gazed upon the varied
scenery.
	At last they came to New Orleans and dis-
embarking, took a last farewell of the noble
ship, that had been home to them for so long,
and taking a steamer for St. Louis, ascended
the mighty Mississippi. On either shore they
beheld the residences of wealthy
planters, the cotton fields, gangs of negroes
working, and the beautiful scenery of the
South.
	Arriving at St. Louis the company landed.
Some had friends who joyfully met them, and
and took them away, but Henrietta felt lonely.
The one she loved had not appeared, and in
all that great city there was no one else to
greet her. What was her surprise and delight
when a pleasant gentleman spoke to her, tell-
ing her he had come for her, that he was the
Bishop of the branch. He took her to the
house of a friend, and left her. Here she was
made welcome and her new found sister friend
treated her as a mother would a daughter, and
won the warmest gratitude of her heart.
	In this kind home she staid until she found
employment in another’s family.
	Time passed on, and preparations
for the overland journey be-
gan, and at last in early spring, she
set her face westward towards Zion the place
of the Saints, in the tops of the mountains.
	Morning after morning the call came for
prayers and breakfast—the harnessing and yok-
ing of the teams, the moving of the long trains,
always westward over the level plains, with the
same mountains in the distance in view, the
walking of the strong and the riding of the
weak, the noon halt, afternoon the repitition of
the morning and the glad sight of water and
feed at night.
	A rest after the weary day’s march. The
bright camp fires were lighted, suppers quickly
got, moon lit dances, cheerful songs, prayers,
and all to bed, except the watchful guard, ever
alert, so that no foe could come unobserved
creeping through the grass like a snake, to
steal the teams or kill the sleeping campers.
	Day after day was nearly the same until the
mountain ranges were reached. Then the
monotony of the scenery was broken. Deep
rivers were crossed, and after many days the
top of the Big Mountain was reached, where
all could look far away and get the first
glimpse of the lovely valley of Salt Lake, and
catch the glistening silver of that distant in-
land sea, Salt Lake with a charm surrounding
it, the entrance into the valley where the very
atmosphere breathed peace, and the lovely in-
fluence of the Spirit of God seemed in the very
atmosphere making the rugged mountains
seem the best of places, the valley, home in-
deed.


