	SWEET MEMORIES.

Sweet memories come in visions of the night,
And banish sleep and thrill us through and through;
'Til every pulse throbs with a wild delight;
And scenes forgotten burst upon our view.
Strange fancies hold us by a magic power,
Then fade away, as fades the summer flow’r.
	
We clasp the hands of those now long since dead,
And press our lips to theirs in kisses sweet,
Desert’d paths and by-gone places tread,
And hand in hand familiar faces greet.
’Tis but a moment and the vision’s flown,
And we are left bewilder’d and alone.

We gather wild flow’rs in the fragrant vale,—
Meanwhile the bluebird sings and soars away,
The low-voic’d thrush pours forth her plantive tale,
Alone in silent reverie we stray,—
With thoughts subdued, and eyes suffus’d with tears.
As we recall these scenes of other years.

Anon, we wander by a winding brook;
Close to its banks the fern and moss still clings,
And in the self-same shelter’d, shady nook
The lonely whippoorwill disconsolate sings
The long night through, bemoaning his sad fate,
As those who bow'd in sorrow wail and wait.

In the low meadows ’mong the clover bloom,
Where buttercups and daisies nod and sigh,
And the soft air is laden with perfume,
A moment we are lost in ecstacy,
And mingle with companions of our youth
’Til conscious of the sad and bitter truth—

That they are gone, and this a waking dream
Wherein our fancy revels to deceive,
And yet so perfect all these pictures seem,
That we half-doubting gladly would believe,
That youth and love and buoyant hopes were ours,
And chilling frosts ne’er nipp’d life’s fairest flow’rs.

Sweet mem’ries of our busy life a part,
Rifting the clouds, that hang around our way,
Whispering gently to the human heart,
Hope on and bear the burden of to-day
Shrink not from trials that are hard to bear,
For life has many blessins rich and rare.

The lonely wander’r in a foreign land,
Far from his home and those he loves the best,
In memory sees again the household band,
And in the vision feels supremely blest,
And gazes lovingly upon each face.

Thus soothed, unconsciously he sinks to sleep,
Breathing, as ’twere a blessing and a prayer;
That angel sentinels may vigil keep,
Around the home where his fond treasures are;
And in his dreams softly he seems to hear
Voices of absent lov’d ones murmur’ng near.

Thus retrospectively we turn and gaze
Into the regions of the shadowy past,
And analyze our lives through ev’ry phase
Wond’ring what horoscope could have been cast,
When first was usher’d in our hour of birth,
To fill the mission, taken here on earth.

Ah me! what matters it that we inquire
Into the past, or search the paths we’ve trod,
’Tis knowledge of the future we desire,
And grace divine to bear the chast’ning rod,
Acknowledging His hand in good or ill,
While daily toils and duties we fulfill.

Yet,—harder still would be our earthly lot,
If the sweet mem’ries of life’s golden hours,—
The brightest and the best were all forgot,

[Column 2]
The perfume taken from the fairest flowers,
That bloom along our toilsome, weary way,
And scatter fragrance round us day by day.
