EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send for publication an obituary on the death of Sister
Mary Baugh Haslem, who died May 1st, 1887, aged sixty-
two years. She was born in Shropshire, England; came
to St. Louis, America, and was married April 10th, 1843;
was baptized in 1848, and came to Utah in 1851 with her
husband, settling in Iron County, helping to build up the
interests of the Church, always prominently lending a help-
ing hand to the sick and distressed in unison with her hus-
band. She was an acquisition to any place, and a blessing
to any county. She was an exemplary wife and mother, an
able and efficient teacher in the ward Relief Society, but
her labors on earth are finished. The Relief Society officers
and members, forming a cortege with her sorrowing family,
followed the casket containing the body to the meeting
house on foot, and afterward in vehicles to the grave. The
Elders spoke of her pure life and many virtues, consoling
the mourning family with the hope of our reunion in the
world to come. Nothing will be forgotten of Sister Has-
lem's good deeds, but the perfume from her loving actions
will cling to her memory to the end of time.

	"She is not dead, yet death has done its work;
	It came, but not in ghastliness—it, as
	A kindly porter, set the gates ajar,
	And he stepped forth, leaving the tenement
	A breathless corse, that slumbers in the tomb;
	'Twas worn and weary and it needed rest.
	No faith, nor prayers, nor the heart's yearnings,
	The loving and beloved, could longer bind
	That mighty spirit in an earthly form."
		JA E LEATHAM.
Wellsville, June 2nd, 1887.

	Being requested by the bereaved husband and adopted
daughter of the deceased, and by the Relief Society of
this ward, I send for publication a tribute of respect to the
memory of our beloved President, Sister Ellen B. M.
Whiton, who died April 25th, 1887, at the age of seventy-
two years. She was baptized in the year 1852; emigrated
in 1853 from her home in Lancashire, England, to these
valleys of the mountains, where her husband, Henry Moran,
was killed by the Indians in 1856. She subsequently
married her present husband, Israel Whiton. On the 4th
of July, 1868, she was called to the office of Treasurer for
the Relief Society of this ward; in 1873 she was appointed
President, which office she held at the time of her death.
	Sister Whiton was an earnest, energetic worker in all
things connected with this place; ever ready with her coun-
sel or her means to attend the bedside of the sick and the
couches of the dead, to see them laid away in the proper
cerements of the grave She died as she had lived, with
the love and esteem of all who knew her. The Relief
Society officers, teachers and members followed the casket
containing all that was mortal of our beloved sister to the
meeting house, which was packed, everyone showing respect
to the remains of the honored dead. The Elders of the
ward paid tribute to her many good deeds and noble
character, and as if God delighted to honor, Apostle John
H. Smith, happening in our city, came with consoling words
and beautiful ideas, showing the benefits and uses of death,
being the arch over the dark river connecting and amalga-
mating the living and the dead, taking away our selfishness
for the things of this life alone, turning our hearts to those
who have finished this life and gone out to join their
friends in the world beyond the grave.

	"Peace to her ashes! Her loved memory
	Needs not of mortal praise. Her works abide;
	And she, with all whose lives are fashioned by
	The unadulterated Gospel mold,
	Will live eternally where Christ shall reign."
		JANE S. LEATHAM.
Wellsville, May 27, 1887.


