FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

				LAIE, May 8th 1887.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR AUNT EM:—You, who love the
flowers of this sad earth so well, will be
interested, I am sure, in knowing something
about the flowers of these islands, and so I
devote this little paper to those sweet eyes
and breaths of the angels—flowers.
	I don't think there are any native
wild flowers, or very few, at least; in my
journey around this island I have seen
none but the high prickly pears, which bear
fruit as well as flower, and the flowers culti-
vated in gardens. You must imagine Laie set
on the top of a gentle hill sloping up from the
sea, exposed to the almost constant trade-winds
which effectually prevent any growth of trees
or flowers, except where sheltered in some way
from its breath. Behind a hill, there will be
banked great masses of green bushes, coarse
ferns and trees. But around our houses, we
are obliged to erect some kind of bulwark to
keep off the salt wind. The house itself is
thus utilized, and at times the grassy turf is
cut out in neat blocks and filled up two or
three feet high, thus forming an excellent 
break for the wind.
	Here in these little spots grow oceans of bloom
and fragrance. The natives dearly love flowers,
and have bought and begged seeds until there
are few homes anywhere on this island without
a tiny flower garden.
	Great geraniums, oleanders, and hundreds 
of rare and exquisitely beautiful exotics
flourish here in rank profusion. Honolulu
might well be named the City of Bloom. For
all the year round its well kept gardens smile
up to the sun with all its own prismatic colors.
San Francisco has gardens, but there every-
thing in the city proper has a dusty weary
look, the very roses hanging their fragrant
heads with the burden of city life. But in
Honolulu, wide and spacious as to gardens,
everything is bright and green, kissed, as the
flowers are almost daily, with the sunny drops
of a gentle shower.
	Here at Laie, the rose and the geranium are
favorites. The bright marigold and the yel-
low lily are used extensively for leis. These
leis or wreaths are often very beautiful. 
Imagine geraniums of the most delicate pink,
or the brightest scarlet pulled apart, and each
separate single flower strung on a string alter-
nating occasionally with the green spiced
leaves of the rose—geranium, the whole form-
ing a necklace of wild beauty.
	All the flowers are used for this purpose, a 
dainty rosebud lei being very beautiful and
effective. These leis are sometimes made of
the little purple everlasting flower, and will
keep indefinitely. My own variegated double
Zuinias, of which I gave the seed to some of
our native sisters is utilized thus. There is
also the white fragrant honeysuckle here. In
short, many bright, glowing beauties of which
I only know the native name. 
	But if you come here, and look for the gar-

[Column 2]
dens here at Laie, you will find them strug-
gling along with grass and perhaps next to
sweet potatoes and kalo.
	The ferns all hide themselves in the dis-
tant gorges, and laugh softly to themselves in
the mountain breezes, that, "that which is
worth having is worth coming after," and, alas,
I can only look afar off and wish!
						HOMESPUN.
Susa Young Gates


