THE FIRST OF JUNE.
	To-day, the first of June, is the anniversary of
the birth of the late President Brigham Young,
one of the greatest and best men that ever lived
upon the earth. Brigham Young was born in 1801,
and consequently would be 86 years old were he
now living. He died in 1877, and during the ten
years his name and and fame has been more wide-
ly circulated as each year has rolled by, like that
of other wise men and prophets whom succeed-
ing generations applaud, though their contempo-
raries may have persecuted or put them to death.
Brigham Young’s name and works will be honored
down to the latest generations.
	Brigham Young favored woman’s suffrage, be-
lieved that women should have the privilege of
voting on all questions and held liberal views in
regard to the rights of women in the home and
elsewhere. He was anxious that the women of
Zion should have a paper which should be the
exponent of their views upon all the important
questions of the age, and urged the sisters to
give free expression to their sentiments through
its columns.
	The first number of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
was issued on his birthday, June 1, 1872, and he
approved its name and always seemed to take a
special interest in its circulation among the peo-
ple, believing in the elevating influence of woman
in literature and politics as well as in religion.
“Educate the mothers,” was one of his favorite
themes in conversation and upon the public
stand. That President Young took a
great interest in the EXPONENT is a well-known
fact, and read it carefully, often making suggestions
as to the subjects to be treated upon, although he
had such grave responsibilities resting upon him,
and so much business to attend to. He was one
of those, who never neglected even the smallest
matters, and that was no doubt one of the elements
of his success.
	The EXPONENT is now entering upon another
volume, and it is our wish and desire and ardent
hope, that during the present year there may be a
decided improvement in its appearance. There
certainly will be if the agents in the several wards
and Stakes of Zion will increase their energy in
obtaining subscribers. If they will keep in mind
in soliciting patronage that it is not a paper that is
sustained by advertising, but almost entirely by its
subscription list. It is almost entirely reading
matter, and not page after page of advertisements;
this is an item to be considered. Recently a letter
was received at this office from a president of one
of the Stakes of Zion, who speaks of the EXPON-
ENT like this: “Your paper wherever taken I find
a decided improvement in all such families. Sis-
ters, either married or single, are in advance of
those where the EXPONENT is not found,” etc. We
publish this to encourage those who may be dis-
couraged in making efforts to extend the circula-
tion of the paper.
	Such testimony coming from one of our brethren


who has had a wide experience in the world may
be taken as authority, and stimulate those who are
laboring in its interest.


