DEAR EXPONENT:                                                                                                                                         
	You will not regard me as an egotist, or feel
that I am trying to place myself before the
public in a conspicuous manner, for I do not
desire to give my humble thoughts to the pub-
lic only as duty prompts me to, that I may
be benefited and, perchance, encourage some
weary one in life’s great struggling throng.
	To-day so many things of the past have come
up in my memory, and with her I have loved
over again every day of the years now fled,
and I have been asking how well I have per-
formed my duties as a wife and mother in
Zion. Alas! how unsatisfactory the answers
are for self condemnation, meets me at every
turn. One third of my short life I have been
a wife, and all this time I have desired to be a
faithful, loving one, and yet oft have I placed
thorns in the paths of the dear ones where
roses might have grown; given frowns where

[column 2]
only smiles should have been seen, and instead
of catching all the golden sunbeams as they
passed, I have been so busy sighing over the
little annoyances in my way, that many of the
most beautiful ones have gone unnoticed.
	The sweet babes, given of heaven, have been
such a comfort, yet I cannot forget that at
times I have not appreciated them enough to
always be as patient as I should have been, and
by a little bad example have, I fear, lost many
a beautiful precept. I well remember one night
being sorely tried with my young daughter. I
said, “Did you say your prayers to-day?” “Yes.
mamma,” she answered, “and I asked the Lord
to make me a good girl” I told her I was
afraid she did not want to be good and try to
please me, else she could not make so many
failures. Then came the sweet childish voice
that went right to my heart and smote it with
bitterness. “But mamma, I do try to be good,
and I don’t believe the Lord helps us to do
right, for when I ask Him to help me, then He
lets me do something naughty again.” I kissed
the dear child, and did my best to undo what I
had unwillingly done—destroying my child’s
confidence in her Creator. I bade her still
trust in Him and in time the victory would be
gained, and ere I closed my eyes I knelt in deep
humility and implored that same Almighty to
forgive my weakness iu expecting my child to
render greater homage to me than I did to Him,
for it came to me with great plainness that my
daughter did better as a child than I did as a
representative of intelligent womanhood; for do
I not daily ask for strength and wisdom? and
I know more than I deserve is given, and I
alone am to blame if this heaven-born light is
rejected through my yielding to frail mor-
tality.
	These things, and many more, come to my
mind, aye, more than I could find language to
express, and I felt I would like to see all my
dear sisters in Israel, and then we would take
our dear companions by the hands and together
beseech the divine blessing on our future years,
that the powers of evil may be bound with a
stronger chain than it ever has been in our
homes; that peace and union may reign su-
preme in every breast, and the love of right-
eousness may hold sway in the hearts of our
sons and daughters. Is not the mother the
guiding star of the daughter, and can the son
be censured if he follows in the footsteps of
his father? God help our children and have
mercy on us as parents if we place not purity
and truth before them.
	Do we wish our dearest earthly treasures to
go forth in the cold world with no pleasant re-
flections of their early home and natural pro-
tectors in life? No, a thousand times no! Then
we must look well to the lives we are living be-
fore them each day. Are we showing them
that the Gospel light has been a blessing to us,
by rendering us better parents than children of
the world possess?
	Do we, as wives, teach our daughters to have
a proper respect for their future husbands by
tenderly regarding the wishes of their fathers,
and thus increase their love and honor for the
same. If we do, they will look forward with
pride to the day when they can give the same
loving service to their heart’s ideal.
	If a husband watches over with kind solici-
tude the interest of the mother in his home,
the sons will most likely love and honor that
mother, and will thus be taught to regard
women as something more than a toy or com-
mon drudge, and in short, if we as mothers
and fathers lead lives of honor and aspire to
laudable aims in life, scorning to stoop to the
little despicable acts that are daily destroying
our influence in private as well as public circles,
our children will most assuredly be ambitious
to reach the same goal. 
	I verily feel that a reformation is needed in
every quarter among the Saints, for while I

[column 3]
contend with the mighty foe in the shape of
my own weakness, I am inclined to think,
from observation, others must battle to some
extent with the same evils. We know that
Satan with his legion of fallen angels are let
loose to lead astray those who are trying to
earn a salvation in the kingdom of God, and
no stone will be left unturned to gain their
point, and if we trust ourselves an instant on
the forbidden ground we may be lost.
	Oh, let us renew our energy lending all our
aid to each other by faith and prayer and good
works, and with sweet encouragement lead the
weak and help the weary to stand, for are there
not times when each will grow faint? I know
of one, and that is,
