BEAR LAKE STAKE. 
	Minutes of the Relief Society annual con-
fenence on the east side of Bear River, held
at Montpelier, March 6th, 1887, Prest.
Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing.
Prayer by Bishop William Rich. Continued
by singing. Minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	In a few opening remarks Prest. J. P. Lind-
say expressed her thankfulness for having the
privilege of being present on such an occasion.
She desired to hear the reports of the different
branches of the Relief Society on the east side
of Bear River.
	The several branches of the R. S. were repre-
sented by their respective presidents. Sister
L. M. Hart spoke of the tribulations which
are coming upon the Latter day Saints. Said,
"It is the same Spirit which actuated the mobs in
Nauvoo and other places, but all will be well
in the end. We will receive our reward if we
are faithful." She spoke on many other inter-
esting subjects.

[Column 3]

	Sister E. Collins bore a powerful testimony
to the truth of this work in which we are en-
gaged. She made some good remarks to en-
courage us to keep God's commandments.
	Sister Annie Laker, Stake President of the
Primary Association, encouraged the sisters to
improve the time, and not put off till to-morrow
what could be done to-day. Said we should live
nearer to God every day. so that we might feel
that we are helping to roll on God's great
work.
	Sister E. M. Pugmire said, "We have had a
great many good instructions. It is the
practical part that will do us good, not what
we hear." She gave some good instructions to
the secretaries in regard to making out re-
ports.
	Sister E. F. Budge bore her testimony to the
truth of this work in which we are engaged.
	Sister Sarah Holmes said she did not feel as
though she could add one word to what had
been said. She bore testimony to the truth of
the same, and exhorted the sisters to pray for
those who are in prison and in exile.
	Bishop William Rich spoke on the duties
of mothers to their children. Said, "We all
have an influence either for good or evil; we
will be held accountable for the way we use our
influence."
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsay knew the remarks
had been dictated by the Spirit of the Lord.
Said "The remarks have all been good and
timely and calculated to do us good."
	Meeting was adjourned until 2 p.m. by sing-
ing, "Sweet hour of prayer." Benediction by
Elder D. Osborne
	Afternoon session: Meeting opened by sing-
ing, "With all my powers of heart and
tongue." Prayer was offered by Bishop A.
Wright. Singing, "Praise ye the Lord." The
sacrament was administered, during which the
choir sang a sacramental hymn.
	Sister Lindsay occupied the time in the after-
noon, giving good instructions on different
subjects. She said anyone could not instruct
the children of God without the Spirit of God.
"A Latter-day Saint cannot stand still in this
Church; they will either go backward or for-
ward." She spoke of the dividing line which
is now taking place. "No one can stand firm
to this Church without a testimony to the truth
of the same. God has called us out from
Babylon, that we might not be partakers of her
sins and of her plagues; neither should we
partake of her ways and her fashions. We
should make our own fashions, and not follow
the fashions of the world." Spoke of the laws
which have been enacted against this people,
and of the tribulations which are coming upon
this people, "but God will come from His hid-
ing place, in His own due time, and deliver
them from bondage."
	Bro. D. Osborne endorsed the remarks of
Sister Lindsay; knew they had been dictated
by the Spirit of the Lord.
	Meeting was adjourned by singing, "Let
Zion in her beauty rise." Benediction by Bro.
James Collins.
