SAN LUIS STAKE. 
	The conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake was held in the Manassa meeting house,
March 20th, 1887, Mrs. Martha E. Smith pre-
siding. Present on the stand were Mrs.
Margaret Haskell, of San Juan, and Mrs. Mary
A. Boice, of Oxford, Idaho, Prest. John Mor-
gan, the President of the Stake, and other
leading brethren and sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises of singing
and prayer, minutes of previous conference
were read and approved. Opening remarks by
Sister M. A. Boice: "I esteem it a great privi-
lege to bear my testimony to the truth of this
work. We should put our trust in God, and
honor the holy Priesthood." Said her mother
had a glimpse of the Gospel; long before it was
revealed to Joseph Smith, and she had been
waiting for it; when it came to her she was ready
to receive it.
	Sister Margaret Haskell: "I am pleased to
see you, my brethren and sisters. There is a
good influence here. I can say with truth that
this is the kingdom of God, and I hope that
the sisters may have the spirit of their calling 
to rest upon them that they may learn and
teach the principles of the Gospel to each other
and to their children, that it may have an im-
pression upon their hearts." 
	Mrs. H. Christenson, Prest. of the Manassa
R. S. Mrs. A. M. Rasmussen, Prest. of Ephraim,
and Coun. Maria Showcroft of Richfield R. S.,
each spoke a short time, bearing testimonies
to the truth, of the good being done, and the
improve-ment being made in their respective
wards.

[Column 2]

	Prest. Dalton said he was pleased to see so
much interest manifested on this occasion.
"There is a power in the Relief Society; it
strengthens us in spiritual affairs, and helps
the bishop in many ways; but our greatest
duty is to mold and fashion the minds of the
young. The success of all great men in life is
due, in a great measure, to the teaching of their
mothers. The Gospel has brought together the
best men and women in the world—women
with strong minds, who have given to their sons
the strength of character that they bear."
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. by singing,
"Glorious things are sung of Zion." Prayer
by Bishop Dalton.
	Afternoon session: After singing, prayer
was offered by Coun. W. Christenson. Con-
tinued by singing, "Spirit of faith, come
down."
	The reports of the different Primary Associa-
tions were then given by their respective presi-
dents or counselors:
	Coun. S. T. Boice reported the Manassa P. A.;
Prest. Annettie Christenson, the Ephraim
Primary, and Prest. Christiena Mortison the
Richfield Primary, all of which were in a good
condition, and a lively interest being taken by
the children.
	The names of the presiding sisters of the
Stake, and also of the different ward societies
and Primary Associations were presented by
the secretary and unanimously sustained by
the conference.
	Prest. John Morgan said, "I have enjoyed
this conference very much. I am pleased to
see these organizations growing in our midst,
for they will result in much good. We should
look upon our children as an heritage from the
Lord; they are the most priceless boon that
God can give us. We should keep them at
home among the Latter-day Saints. Purity
and innocence are brighter apparel than all the
fine clothes that they can earn by working out,
where they are exposed to all kinds of influences.
God will hold us accountable for our children.
The presiding sisters should teach the Gospel
in its plainness." Spoke upon the necessity of
the sisters learning the art of good cooking, that
our bread should be light and wholesome, that
we might we healthy.
	Prest. Martha E. Smith said, "I have been
well pleased with the conference." Extended
a hearty welcome to the sisters who had lately
arrived from the Southern States. Said her
health had been poor for some time, and she
had not been able to visit the sisters as much
as she would liked to have done. Asked the
Lord to bless us all.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Choir sang, "Hope of Israel." Benediction by
Prest. S. S. Smith.
		S. T. B. Sec.

