CACHE STAKE.
	The Conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Cache Stake convened in the Logan Tabernacle,
at 10:30 a.m., Saturday, May 7th, 1887, Prest.
Carrie M. C. Smith presiding. Meeting opened
with singing, "Hearts and Homes." Prayer
was offered by Sister E. Smith. Singing, "God
is Love."
	President Smith stated that she desired those
giving reports to state the successes or failures
with which they had met in carrying out the
programme assigned.
	Verbal reports of all the associations in the
county were given. According to the reports
the associations were in a prosperous condition.


[Column 1]

	Prest. Smith expressed her gratification with
the reports, and laid out a programme of work
which she desired all the associations to do
within the next two months. Exhorted the
young ladies to seek for a knowledge of the
truth, that they might know for themselves
whether any doctrine be of God, or of the
opposite power.
	Sister Margaret Young said, "We have heard
some good instructions this morning, and we
should impress it on our minds, that our knowl-
edge may be increased. The uppermost
thought in our minds should be the principles
of the Gospel, and dress and such matters
secondary; certainly we should be clean in
person and home, for cleanliness is next to God-
liness."
	Prest. Smith then read the names of the
young ladies who had prepared the greatest
number of references on the subjects assigned.
Sarah E. Welchman of Newton, having pre-
pared 381 on Repentance and 163 on What
the Lord calls His Church, had been appointed
to give these exercises in the afternoon.
	Singing, "Truth is Mighty." Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p.m. Benediction by Sister
Jane E. Molen.
	At 2 p.m. meeting opened with singing, "How
firm a foundation." Prayer by Sister R. Eames.
Singing. The minutes of the previous confer-
ence were accepted as read, after which Coun.
Ida F. Langton read the letter from Sister E.
S. Taylor, Territorial President of the Y. L.
M. I. A., stating why she was not with us, and
sending the following expressions to the confer-
ence:
	"Please extend my regrets to Sister Smith
and the young ladies assembled, and may the
Spirit of God be with you, and everything
which is done be for the best good of the asso-
ciations and for the advancement of the work
in which we are engaged. Sister E. R. Snow
requested me to convey to the congregation as-
sembled her blessing, and say that she feels
perfectly satisfied wiih the circumstances which
surround the Saints, and she knows that the
outcome will be glorious,"
	The programme was rendered as follows:
A member of Logan, 3rd Ward, read an essay
on "Household Economy; an essay on "What
are a few things that contribute to make useful
members of society?" was read by a member of
Newton; a song by two members of Hyrum
2nd Ward; references from Doctrine and
Covenants on "What the Lord calls His
Church," were given by Sarah E. Welchman;
two members of the Smithfield Association sang
a song; an essay on "Free Agency of Man,"
war read by a member of Richmond; Sarah E.
Welchman then read the references from the
Bible on "Repentance." This completed the
programme for the afternoon.
	Sister Jane E. Molen, President of the Prim-
ary Associations of this Stake, made some re-
marks; gave some good instructions to the
young ladies, and complimented them on their
progress.
	Sister Freeze, President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Salt Lake Stake, said she was pleased
and interested with the exercises. "If we gain
a glory we must work and earn it. We must
act for ourselves and not depend on others."
The remarks of Sister Molen reminded her of
some remarks she heard President Joseph F.
Smith make on one occasion to the young
ladies, which were to the effect that he (and he
believed that other men would do the same)
would do more for his sweetheart, his mother or
his wife than for any other person, showing
what influence the young ladies had over the
opposite sex. Advised the young girls not to
marry those who were not upright and seeking
to live up to the principles of the Gospel, for
the Lord had designed that the man should be
the leader, and therefore we should seek those
whom we can look up to for counsel. Entreated

[Column 2]

the girls to attend their meetings and seek to
do right, that they might stand faithful. Ad-
vised them to fast often, for this was a key that
would open the heavens unto them. She took
it for granted that all kept the word of wisdom,
for by so doing they would find wisdom and
great treasures of knowledge, even hidden
treasures.
	Prest. Smith said she was pleased with the
manner in which the exercises had been ren-
dered, and with the remarks of the sisters. She
felt like Sister Molen, that the young ladies
were getting ahead of the older ones, and she
felt to rejoice over it. Advised all to work for
the good of each other, that we might there-
by build up the kingdom of God. "Let us
love each other. Let us seek to edify
and glorify each other. Think not that any
are too young to do good. The Spirit of
the Lord can work through a young per-
son as well as through an older one,
if each lives a worthy life." Spoke of our be-
ing deprived of the right to vote, and thought
it a gross injustice. Desired the young ladies
in any of their meetings, where they quote
from another, to give the author due credit.
	Singing; "Come, thou glorious day of
promise." Meeting adjourned until 7:30 p.m.
Benediction by Sister Adeline Barber.
	Evening session of conference: Meeting
opened with singing, "The Spirit's Cry." Prayer
by Bishop Wm. Hyde. Singing. The Terri-
tory and Stake officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.
were sustained, a slight change being made in
the latter. Circumstances necessitating the
absence of the First Counselor, Sister Zina Y.
Williams, at present, Sister Retta Ormsby was
sustained as acting counselor.
	By request the exercise on the "Free Agency
of Man," which was given in the afternoon,
was again read; an essay on "What is Charac-
ter in an Individual?" was read by a member
of Hyde Park.
	Sister Sarah Thatcher, President of Logan
2nd Ward Y. L. M. I. A., said, "The Scriptures
tell us, 'Ask, and ye shall receive,'" and she
asked an interest in the faith and prayers of
those present, for she felt very weak, but felt
like standing by her motto, which was, "Do
your best, and by so doing you will in time do
better." Desired that we all strive to prove
faithful to the end, "for the race is not to the
swift, but to those who endure to the end."
	A song was rendered by a member of Logan
2nd Ward; Correspondence by two members of
Logan 1st Ward was then read, after which a
sketch of the life of the Empress Josephine
was given by a member of Smithfield; a mem-
ber of Logan 6th Ward sang a song.
	Sister Retta Ormsby said by request of Sis-
ter Smith she arose to express her willingness
to accept the position to which she had been
called. Said if she could have the faith and
prayers of all she was willing to accept it.
	Sister Freeze said her heart was touched with
pity by the cruel fate of the Empress Josephine,
and thought what a blessing it would have
been if she had lived in the Gospel dispensation,
when her husband could have taken another
wife without their separation. Said although
we as sisters had been disfranchised we yet en-
joy the right to speak, and could advise others
in regard to plural marriage, for we are not
bound by the oath like our brethren.
	Prest. Smith advised the young ladies not to
marry those who were unwilling that they should
spend at least a portion of their time for their
own improvement, and in benefitting others.
She expressed her gratitude to those who had
assisted in making the conference so enjoyable,
especially to Sister Hendrickson for the able
manner in which she had conducted the singing
and the practices to learn the songs.
	Singing. Benediction by Bro. W. H. Ap-
perly.
