ONE OF MISS MULOCK'S BOOKS. 

"About Money and Other Things," but particu-
larly About Money, whether it be devoted to
the preservation of homely wits by home keeping
youths or the gathering of the moss of enlighten-
ment by rolling stones. does Miss Mulock dis-
course with that strong vein of Common Sense of
which she is a Professor in the University of Ex-
perience. At the risk of being considered un-
sentimental, unheroic, even unchristian, she has
the courage to affirm that the right or wrong use
of money is the utmost test of character, as well
as the root of happiness or misery throughout our
whole lives. And at the risk of exciting the
wrath and contempt of the advocates of the higher
education of women, she declares that it is not
necessary for every woman to be an accomplished
musician, an art student, a thoroughly educated
Girton Girl; but that it is necessary that she
should be a woman of business. From the day
when her baby fingers begin to handle pence and
shillings and dollars and cents, and her infant
mind is roused to laudable ambition by the poses-
sion of a fixed sum per week, no matter how
small, she should be taught the true value and wise
expenditure of money; how to keep accounts and
how to ballance them; to avoid incurring the small-
est debt; to observe the just proportion of having
and spending; and, above all, to take to heart the
exceeding wise doctrine of the most foolish of
men, that with the living within one's income
comes happiness, and that the living beyond it, to
the extent of a single sixpence, brings misery and
woe. Miss Mulock is quite right in saying that
he who is careless about money is careful about
nothing, and in everything untrustworthy; and


that it is the prudent man, whom he despises, to
whom at last he comes when his rashness and
thoughtlessness and criminal liberality and gen-
erosity have left him no oil with which to fill his
empty lamp. The improvident half of the world,
whom the plodding other half supports, may read
with profit—to both halves—what the author of
John Halifax has to say About Money—and
Other Things.
	Upon the subject of Genius, her common-sense
which has naturally but little sympathy with the
unwholesome and uncomfortable aberrations of
genius, is peculiarly strong; and almost for the
first time in print the characters of the last most
emphatic genius of the Victorian Age, and of his
almost equally gifted wife, are discussed in the
light of common-sense. Disappointed and neg-
lected, she did her wifely duty in a literal way,
but she seasoned it with incessant complaints,
and the cruel use of sarcasm. He lived a life ex-
ternally unimpeachable but full within with rancor,
and malice, and cruel selfishness toward her.
And for the first time all their unfortunate troubles,
of which the world has heard too much, are as-
eribed, not to his genius, but to his bad qualities
and to her morbid sensitiveness; either of which
might have been the cause of equal incompatibili-
ty in any of the "idiots" and "dolts" and "brain-
less asses" his indigestion showed him in the
world at large. In the avalanche of talk of late
upon genius, its rights and its immunities, its
errors and their excuses, its vagaries and their
results, Miss Mulock's honest opinions, so con-
trary to the opinion generally expressed, are very
refreshing.
	From her chair of Common-Sense the Professor
confesses to have lived for sixty years, and to
have written and taught for forty. To the two
generations who have listened to her wisdom and
profited by her teaching this present lecture, which
she delivers as a Christmas remembrance, will cer-
tainly bring what she hopes for it—a laugh, which
is good; a tear, which is sometimes better; and a
serious thought or two, which is best of all.—
Harper's Magazine.


