EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I thought you might like to hear a little about
the manner in which the "Jubilee" of our Queen is
being celebrated. Her Majesty, Queen Victoria,
(as doubtless you are aware) was born May 24th,
1819 and at the death of her uncle, King William
the fourth, she ascended the throne on June
21st in her eighteenth year. She married Albert,
Duke of Saxe Coburg Gothe, on February 10th
1840 to whom she bore nine children, and after a
happy married life she was left a widow in 1861
and since that time she has shown a preference
for private life. As a mother she has been an
example to her subjects and from children the
Princes and Princesses have been taught to be
useful, domesticated, and as polite to the lowest
members of their mother's household as to the 
highest. It was said that the Princess Alice was
ever proud that she had been taught how to make
dresses and to sew, and when in her home in
Darmstadt she used to make nearly all her chil-
drens' dresses, she writes to her mother and
thanks her for making her do what was useful
though at the time it was distasteful. There is
a lesson here worth every one's learning. Learn-
ing is never an encumbrance, we often need it
when we have let golden opportunities pass. As
a queen, our Sovereign has never been excelled,
and to her credit be it said she has kept her court
the most refined, pure, and cultivated, in the
whole world. She is firm but just, and any vice
or wrong in the Court circle, she sternly roots up
and denies the offenders the privilege of being
near her or attending her. The Queen by no
means sanctions much that is done in aristocratic
circles, and on account of her love of retirement,
natural to her advanced years, she fails to see
a great deal of the evil ways of society that only
need her knowledge of them for them to be eradi-
cated. The Prince of Wales, the Heir to the
throne, married in 1867 the Princess Alexan-
dria of Denmark, a most amiable and gifted lady.
By her goodness and beauty she has secured the
love of all the people and reigns in their hearts
second only to the Queen. She has brought her
five children up wisely, the two sons are away;
Prince Albert Victor is in Gibraltar, and is the
eldest, consequently he may be king some day.
Her three daughters remain with her but they are
taught to be domesticated, although they are
Princesses.
	The Prince of Wales is a general favorite on
account of his good nature. I am slightly di-
gressing, but this much I have mentioned, as the
Prince and his family are so closely associated
with Her Majesty, and many of her duties she
transfers to them to perform, that their names
must necessarily appear often.
	This makes the fiftieth year of the reign of
Victoria, who is also Empress of India, and a 
prosperous and peaceful time it has been, con-
sidering the cruel reign of some of
her predecessors. Very few have lived
to celebrate their Jubilee and those
who have, surely never had such prepara-
tions made to celebrate it with all due honor. No

[Column 2]

one seems forgotten. The children, the poor, and
every one seems to be studied. Money is being 
circulated. The poor are getting chances of em-
ployment and everything looks brighter than it
has done for some time past. As near as I can
remember the first public ceremony Her Majesty
honored with her presence this Jubilee Year was
the opening of the Edinburgh Exhibition, and
since then hardly a week has gone by without 
some Exhibition, Show, Gardens or Public Place
being opened or foundation stones laid either by
Herself or her family in her name. The Grand
National Memorial of the Jubilee is to be an
Imperial Institute which is to be built
from contributions from all parts of the United
Kingdom, the Colonies and India and each large
firm or private individual who wishes to give her
Majesty a substantial proof of loyalty, are
requested to give to this institute instead of giv-
ing presents to the Queen, who will lay the foun-
dation stone according to present arrangemements
on July 4th when full state ceremony will be ob-
served. Almost every day appeals are made to
one's purse for some Jubilee festivity or other un-
til it wearies one.  In the streets, in the shops,
everything is marked Jubilee. There are jubilee
dresses with the crown and V. R. stamped upon
them, Jubilee bonnets, Jubilee sweets, Jubilee
provisions, Jubilee drinks, Jubilee carriages and
it is accepted as loyalty when the true motive is
merely money making.
	On the ninth of May the corporation of the city
of London attended the Lord Mayor in state to
Buckingham Palace to present an address of con-
gratulation to Her Majesty upon the Jubilee, and
to surrender again (as the custom has been for
eight centuries) the Jeweled sword of pure gold,
which was made in the Reign of King Rufus, and
the same Mace that history tells us Oliver Crom-
well banished from the table of the House of
Commons, her Majesty then read her reply in a
clear audible voice, and after kissing hands the
ceremony was ended.
	The following day the third Drawing Room was
held and was the most numerously attended of
any this season. The number of Debutantes
numbering over five hundred. The greater por-
tion of the Royal Family were present and hearti-
ly glad Her Majesty must have been when her
hand was kissed by the last fair lady that after-
noon. The dresses were most costly, but the
flowers pleased me the most, they were triumphs
of nature, and the florist's art.
	Upon the same day the American Exhibition
opened at Brompton, and when I have paid it a
visit I will let you know my impressions of it.
The Queen paid it a short visit and spoke kindly 
to the Indians who performed specially for Her
Majesty under the direction of a colored lady who
is called Buffalo Bill.
	The next day Westminster Abbey received a
visit from its illustrious Sovereign who went to in-
spect the preparations that are being made for
the ceremony state service to be held in that
beautiful old building on June 28th to celebrate
the Jubilee. It was there fifty years ago she en-
tered, a girl of 18, to be crowned, and she visited
to attend service there now she is 68, in preference
to St. Paul's Cathedral. No doubt her thoughts
will float back to the time when she first became
our Queen, and of the many scenes she has
passed through since then; of the happy hours
and the sorrowful of her happy married life, and
her widowed one, and will doubtless thank God
that He has so ruled and guided her that she has 
never yet lost the love of her people.
	On the fourteenth the Peoples' Palace in East
End of London was opened by the Queen who
came up from Windsor for that purpose. Her
route lay along the principal thoroughfares of
London such as E. Road, Oxford St., Hol-
born, Cheapside, Oldgate, Whitechapel to Mile
End, where the building was situated and was a dis-

[Column 3]

tance of eight miles. The entire route was decor-
ated with flags, Venetian Masts, Mottoes, Words of
Welcome, and triumphal arches, every house dis-
played some token of respect at Holborn bars,
which is the city boundary, and where stands the 
oldest houses in the Metropolis, that escaped
the great fire of London, whose gabled roofs
stood out in sharp contrast to the modern dwell-
ing places around them. The Lord Mayor at-
tended by sherriffs and a deputation from the
corporation of the city met Her Majesty, and
having presented to her the Sword and Mace pre-
ceded the procession (which was composed of
open carriages) through the city to the city boun-
daries in Oldgate, and there drew aside for Her
Majesty to pass through. On the return journey
Her Majesty alighted and entered the
Mansion House for the first time in her life as the
guest of the Lord and Lady Mayoress, and
after taking tea resumed her journey to Padding-
ton and there took train for Windsor.
	Her Majesty was heartily welcomed and looked
very well. Her hair is quite white, and she has a 
very motherly appearance and is still very stout.
The fatigue attending this ceremonial quite over-
came Her Majesty who was consequently unable
to hold the last Drawing Room of the Season but the
Princess of Wales lovingly undertook it for her and
it was well attended. All presentations to the
the Princess are equivalent to presentations to Her
Majesty. The Queen is very fond of her palace
in Scotland, Balmoral, and spends most time
there on account of its being more secluded, and
she can enjoy private life better there. It is a
common sight to see her walking about almost un-
attended and she frequently visits the poor in their
cottage homes and relieves their wants, and she is
loved more and known better there than in any
part of her dominions. Hence, she has gone
there to spend her birthday which is on Tuesday 
the 24th of May, as well as to rest a little while. I will
endeavor to write you a further account as the
festivities proceed.
