CORRESPONDENCE.
		RAMAH, Valencia Co., N. M.
						May 25, 1887.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	How many times have I attempted to write
for the EXPONENT and nearly as often failed!
When I remember that the women in every
settlement of the Saints should be represented
in “our paper,” I fear that I am guilty of a
neglect of duty.
	Away up here in the tops of the mountains
is a small settlement of the Saints, isolated
almost, the nearest settlement of our people
being St. Johns distant 80 miles, but we are
striving to build up the country and make
homes worthy of saints. Though so far away,
we feel a lively interest in all passing events,
and eagerly peruse the papers that we may
be familiar with the signs of the times. We
sympathise with you and the Saints in Utah in
the loss of the suffrage through the schemes and
plots of wicked, truth-hating men, but so sure
as “truth though crushed will rise again” and
shine with brighter lustre, so sure will this
cherished right be restored to you in Utah and
given to other noble women who are
so bravely struggling for it, while
those who to-day are so vindictively
fighting the progress of righteousness
will sink into oblivion, and after ages (not long
after either) will remember them only with
contempt. We are to be a tried people even
gold seven times purified in the furnace; if
God sees fit to try us through wicked men it
matters not to us. “It must needs be that of-
fenses come, but woe to them by whom they
come!”
	Sisters,lift up your heads and rejoice. Truth
will triumph, we know we have that; we know
our religion is pure, every principle of it—the
whole Christian world to the contrary notwith-
standing—And nothing that we be-
lieve in but will tend to exalt
us in the scale of being, and take us back to
the presence of our Father. We are weak
human beings liable to err, but this is not the
fault of our religion, neither is our religion
answerable for the wickedness of some of its
professors. The Gospel net gathers of all
kinds, the wheat and the tares will grow to-
gether. The time of separation is nigh, even
at our doors. Let us be as the wise virgins, al-
ways ready with our lamps trimmed and burn-
ing, full of oil, that we may not be blown off
with the chaff.
	It is only through prayer that we can have
the Holy Spirit to lead us safely through
temptation. It is as necessary for the mothers
to be in possession of the spirit as the fathers.
Whether we realize it or not, it is we who have
the molding of our children’s future, whether
it be one of usefulness, or otherwise in the
Kingdom of God.
	It is we who have them under our almost
entire control, during their early years, when
the mind is susceptible of the most lasting im-
pressions. The wise man said, “Train a child
in the way he should go, when he is old he will
not depart from it.” How necessary then we
should watch their every act, yea, even mold
their every thought in the ways of the Lord.
	'Tis an old theme this, yet never enough is
said upon it. How weak my efforts to en-
courage the struggling mother! Had I the
tongue of an angel it seems to me no more
nobler theme could employ it than the train-
ing of our precious little ones.
