	A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

“Bring flowers, pale flowers, o'er the bier to shed,
A crown for the brow of the early dead!
For this through its leaves hath the white rose burst,
For this in the woods was the violet nursed;
Though they smile in vain for what once was ours,
They are love's last gift—bring ye flowers, pale flowers!”

	In the flowery month of May, when nature had
donned her beautiful apparel, and the whole earth
seemed radiant with springtime one lovely flower
faded away and died; one of a numerous house-
hold band, beloved and loving, tender and affec-
tionate, kind and generous, possessed of large hu-
man sympathy, unselfish and ever thoughtful of
others, never forgetting the poor, the sick and the
sorrowful.
	Just when the evening sun was setting, and the
purple mantle of its reflected light rested like a
veil on the Eastern hills, she was laid away in the
silent tomb. Sad and sorrowful were the hearts
of the mourners, and their sobs and moans were
pitiful, but they bowed to the inevitable and tried
hard to say, “He who tempers the wind to the
shorn lamb, and who has said not a sparrow falls
to the ground without His notice, has taken her
to Himself, and though we are sore bereft, yet, we
know He doeth all things well.” Her grave was
covered with the beautiful flowers of May, the
flowers she loved so dearly, emblems of affection-
ate remembrance from true and faithful friends.
	It is needless to multiply words, but it is right
and proper to record the death of one who has
so often written for the readers of the EXPONENT,
who will doubtless remember her letters from
Nauvoo, Kirtland, and other parts of the Eastern
States, during her visit to those places in 1883.
	Louise Martha Wells Cannon, or as she was
lovingly called, “Louie,” was the daughter of
General D. H. and Mrs. E. B. Wells, and was
born in Salt Lake City, Utah, August 27, 1862.
Her disposition, from her earliest childhood, was
gentle, tender and amiable; her nature refined and
sensitive, her manners winning and attractive.
She was in many respects specially gifted; her
ardent love of music, her taste for art studies, her
genuine admiration for the beautiful and poetic in

[Column 2]
nature, and her intellectual qualities combined
with her goodness of heart, endeared her to all
who knew her, and she was a special favorite with
children.
	She died of dropsy, in San Francisco, Cal.,
whither she had gone, Dec. 29th, 1886, on a visit
to her sister, Mrs. Belle M. Sears, on the morning
of May 16, 1887, aged 24 years, 8 months and 19
days. Though suffering for about three months
the most agonizing pain almost constantly, she
never complained; her patience and fortitude was
often remarked upon by the physicians who at-
tended her. She spoke of death with the greatest
composure, though she made, as the physicians
termed it “a brave fight for her life.” Her mother
was by her side constantly during the last five
weeks of her life, and to her, and also to her sis-
ter, she spoke tenderly of all those whom she had
known and loved, that she had not the privilege of
seeing, to say “Farewell.” She died in the full
faith of the Gospel, and with a firm belief in all
its principles. She passed away suddenly at last,
without a struggle or a moan, and only once when
letters arrived by the morning mail, and her sister
called to her to look, and putting the letters in her
hands said, “Look, Lulu, look! here are the letters
you wanted!” she opened wide her beautiful, ex-
pressive eyes as though she knew and realized it
all, and then closed them again forever.
	Her remains were brought to this city, arriving
here May 21st, accompanied by her mother and
husband. The funeral services were held at 4
o’clock p.m. at the residence of her husband,
John Q. Cannon, President Angus M. Cannon pre-
siding. A few of her dear friends of the Taber-
nacle choir (to which she had belonged for years)
under the direction of Prof. Beesley, and ac-
companied by Prof. Daynes at the organ, opened
the services by singing,

	“Unveil thy bosom, faithful tomb.”

	Prayer was offered by Bishop H. B. Clawson.
	Choir sang,
	
	“Rest on the hillside, rest.”

	Remarks were then made by Bishop O. F.
Whitney and Prest. Cannon, and the Choir ren-
dered the selection,

		“Nearer, my God, to Thee.”
	
	The benediction was pronounced by her
brother, Elder Junius F. Wells. The casket con-
taining her mortal remains was literally embowered
in flowers, many of them pure white, and all most
artistically arranged. One very elegant cross
and crown, all pure white, intermingled with
green leaves, was presented by the Unity Club,
of which she was a member. An unique monu-
ment, of flowers with the name “Louie” at
the top in heliotrope in oval form was given by the
the Careless Opera Company, and there was also
an exquisite pillow of the softest and purest white
flowers with “Louie” in scarlet geranium blosoms in
the center. Large bouquets of snow balls grace-
fully tied with pure white ribbon and garlands and
festoons of various kinds representing music and
art were given by dear sisters and friends. Her
brothers and brothers-in-law bore the coffin from
the house and when the cortege arrived at the
grave, the choir rendered again that exquisite hymn,

		 “Rest on the hillside rest.”

	The grave was dedicated and consecrated by
Prest. Abram H. Cannon, in a most tender
and touching prayer. Not until all was over and
the grave was covered with the fresh earth did the
mourning friends leave the place where rested one
so dearly loved. Louie lies by the side of her
sister Emmie, who died nine years before, and
next her is Dessie, another of her sisters, who died
Jan. 1886, since the aged father has been absent
from his home.

“The loved and lost!” Why do we call them lost,
Because we miss them from our onward road?
God's unseen angel o'er our pathway crossed,


Looked on us all and loving them the most
	Straightway relieved them from life's weary load.

"They are not lost, they are within the door
	That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer's presence evermore,
	And God Himself their Lord and Judge and King.
	
'Ay! look upon this dreary, desert path,
	The thorns and thistles whereso'er we turn;
What trials and what tears, what wrongs and wrath,
What struggles and what strife the journey hath!
	They have escaped from these and lo! we mourn."


