PLAIN TALK.
	I am one of the poor, and unlearned, so far
as education is concerned, but I have had quite
an experience in some things. I have the in-
terest of the poor at heart, therefore it is not
altogether out of place for me to pen a few of
my simple thoughts, and I will begin by re-
minding you of the many lessons that have
been taught us now for many years; that of be-
ing self-sustaining, patronizing home manufac-
ture and using economy. Have we heeded this
counsel? Are we better than ten years ago?
No, but worse; we are gliding along as though
we were asleep, living in our ease, not thinking
of what is coming nor what our condition will
be. I think it is time that we were roused
from our slumber and begin to look to our own
interest and practice what we preach by being
self sustaining. Why not be more independ-
ent and manufacture what we need at home
and not depend on Babylon for our supplies.
We are in that like some in keeping the word
of wisdom. Some say when we cannot get
these things which are forbidden then we will
keep the word of wisdom, and when all our
supplies are cut off then we will not patronize
Babylon. I think it is best to prepare for war
in time of peace, for it is too late to pray
when Satan comes. Now it is the poor that I
am interested about, and the Saints of Ari-
zona have never been able to sustain them-
selves yet, and why is it so?  Well, one great
cause is that it takes about half or more that
a man can raise to buy clothes and other nec-
essaries that the family need, then he has to
work some other plan to buy his bread. Well,
can this evil be remedied? I think it can to
some extent. In what way? Well, to be
plain and come to the point at once I would
say let the brethren buy a carding machine
and put it up so that the wool in this country
can be carded and then our sisters can spin
their own knitting yarn and make their cloth-
ing for every day wear and by so doing the
men can save grain enough to bread the family.
“Oh dear,” says one, “do you think for a mo-
ment that we would do such work as that
when we can buy goods so cheap, and have
nothing to do but sew them? Let us live easy
while we can.” I beg leave to differ with
you my Sisters just as long as we buy the
shoddy goods that we do, it will take a woman
all her time to do the sewing for her family
and I can testify to you that I know by ex-
perience that it is more injurious to health to
run a sewing machine than a loom. Some of
our brethren, of course, will object to it and
say their wives and daughters must not do
such work as that. They had rather put out
their means in buying a factory. Well, I am
in favor of a factory as much as any one, and
all other kinds of machinery but would it not
be better in our poverty and cramped con-
dition to begin on a cheaper plan and make
all we can at home, and that would enable us
to lay by something to help get a factory, and


I think it would be greatly to the interest of
the people if our Co-op stores would turn out
some of their Capital in that direction. I am
highly in favor of a factory but I am inter-
ested in the poor for I am one of them and I
believe a carding machine would be of more
advantage to them than a factory, and I 
will give my reasons for thinking so:
	The poor would have but very little capital 
if any in a factory and would have to buy
their clothing just the same as they do now
but if they had the carding machine they then
could make their own cloth with their own
labor and be independent. Now I am not
alone in my ideas on this subject, by many, and
I would say to all that view this subject in
the same light that I do, speak up for your
rights; speak out plain and tell the brethren
that it is a carding machine that we want here
in the Eastern Stake of Arizona. "Oh," says
one, "what nonsense; an old woman's fancy, we
are tired of it; we will get all such things
when we see that we need them."
	Now I told you in the beginning that I was
not educated, but that I had had quite an ex-
perience in some things and now I will tell you
a little about it. I happened to be one of the
unfortunate ones that lived in the south in
time of the rebellion. I had been raised in a city,
knew nothing of farm work but I happened to
be living on a farm when the war broke out,
then we had to make our own support in some
way; we had to go to the fields and work; we
had to card, and spin and weave every inch of
cloth that we wore, even the very thread it 
took to sew it with, we had to make. We
could not buy a yard of cloth, a spool of thread,
a skein of yarn, a bunch of warp, a card of
buttons, or a paper of needles or pins. We
tanned our own leather, made our own shoes,
in fact we made all we eat or wore. Supplies
were all cut off from the south, and we were
overtaken as a thief in the night. But if we
had been as wise as our people are, or profess
to be, we might have been better prepared.
And I would advise all to lay by such things
as they may need when Babylon falls and we 
cannot get them. Such as needles, pins, but-
tons, thimbles, thread, wool cards, bleached
muslin, linen, and all needful things; we had
better prepare such things and not need them,
than to need them and not be able to get them.
But what we need now is a carding machine;
we don't want to be forced to card by hand to
make our own wear.
								M. B.
	Erastus, Apache Co., Arizona.


