General Conference of the Relief Society. Amy Brown Lyman The Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, April 4 and 5, 1917. Two public sessions were held, Wednesday, April 4, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, and two sessions for stake officers were held Thursday, April 5, in the Assembly Hall of the Bishop's building. The Home Economics Department held two demonstrations during the Conference at which gas and electric stoves with fireless ovens were demonstrated. This department also held a special meeting in the interest of pure milk, with Prof. Fred W. Merrill, of Minneapolis, Minnesota, as the speaker. A special meeting was held for secretaries and treasurers during the noon recess, on April 5, at which time methods for compiling reports, were discussed. A genealogical meeting was held Saturday, at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall at 4:30 p. m. This meeting was held in connection with and under the direction of the Genealogical Society of Utah. On Thursday evening a brilliant reception was held at the home of Counselor Julina L. Smith  Bee-hive House  at which the members of the General Board of the Relief Society were hostesses to the General Boards of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations and the official representatives of the Relief Society; 350 women called during the hours from eight to eleven. Thursday noon, luncheon was served to the 390 stake officers who were in attendance at the officers' meeting. The attendance at the Conference was larger than ever before. At the morning session of the public meeting 1,545 were in attendance, and at the afternoon meeting the number was swelled to 1,946. At the two officers' meetings which were limited to stake officers there were present 390. The representation at the officers' meetings was as follows: General Board members, 19; stake representatives, 58  42 by stake presidents and 16 by other officers; missions represented, 1. Total number of officers present, 390. The mission represented was the Western States, by the President, Mrs. Jane W. Herrick. Mx> RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The attendance of stake presidents was larger than ever before in the history of the Relief Society, the number, 42. being the largest so far recorded. There were 51 stake counselors present., 12 -takesecretaries, and 5 stake treasurers. There was a large attendance of stake hoard members, in s me of the near-by stakes the per cent of attendance being 100. The Relief Society choir, under the able direction of Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, furnished the singing for the general session of the Conference, and our General Organist, Miss Edna Coray, furnished artistic accompaniments and voluntaries. Two special numbers were given, one by the male quartette Samuel 1). Winters. Charles Parsons, Verne Arnold and Frank Parsons  and the other, a tenor solo, by Dr. W. R. Worley. At the officersmeetings, Mrs. Edward led in congregational singing. President Emmeline B. Wells presided at the meetings of the Conference In her opening address, she extended cordial greetZURICH RF.I.IF.F SOCIETY. ings to the large assemblage. She expressed her appreciation to her heavenly Father that her life had been spared and that she was permitted to enjoy another General Conference of the Relief Society. Referring to the national crisis. President Wells said that perilous tiiue^ have come among us, probably sooner than most of us imagined they would. Our hearts are filled with grief and. sorrow over the loss of life incident to the great world war. and our sympathy and love go out to those who are so sorely afGENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 307 flicted and bereft. The prophecies are being fulfilled which declare that it will hardly be possible to endure the things that arc to come in the last days, that the hearts of men will tremble with fear and that men and women will come to Zion to be fed. Mrs. Wells urged her hearers to prepare themselves for the tests that are to come, by being frugal and saving, prayerful and faithful, and by cultivating a spirit of love and charity for all mankind. She emphasized the importance of conservation of all resources and the need of being provident not only in the matter of OFFICERS OF BERLIN RELIEF SOCIETY. Taken at celebration, March 17th. storing grain, but all other food supplies as well. Mrs. Wells spoke of the early days of the Church, at Nauvoo, and of her own testimony that the Prophet Joseph Smith had been sent to build up a Church that would endure till the coming of Christ. She closed by asking God's blessings on our country and all her people. She prayed especially for the youth of Zion, that they might turn to God for guidance and protection that their hearts might be stimulated with the desire to do deeds of valor and honor, of kindness and of charity and love. Mrs. Aggie Herrick Stevens, President of the Weber stake Relief Society, in a response to the welcome extended by President Wells, spoke with appreciation of the work of the General Board. She stated that the great body of workers in the Relief Society 
 look to the General Board for spiritual refreshment and practical instruction as the weary traveler in the desert looks to the oasis. She felt that the General Board is composed of women of faith, charitv. efficiency and refinement, and that they are instrumental in aiding the Relief Society women to become better home managers, better mothers, and more loyal wives. She spoke very feelingly of her love, and of the love of every member of our great Society, for our beloved president, whom she characterized as a woman of gifts and graces and of the highest spiritual nature and moral strength. Mrs. Stevens referred to the Relief Society AT Till-. L. D. S. HEADQUARTERS, ZURICH, SWITZERLAND. Magazine as a messenger of light, which is filled with inspiration and instruction, and goes over land and over sea, bearing tidings of joy and love to the remotest branches of the Society and uniting them all in a strong bond of common interest. Mrs. Stevens reviewed the work of the organization along lines of theology, genealogy, literature and home economics, and said that it is only after severe mental discipline, study and prayer that we can obtain success along these lines. She spoke of the beautiful charity work of the organization, stating that other things are more important than ourselves, and if we forget ourselves in service to others our lives will be enriched beyond measure. The three laws of Christ are, love, service, and sacrifice, and our observance of these laws will bring rich reward and supreme happiness. Mrs. Jane W. Herrick, president of the Relief Society in the GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 309 Western States Mission, reported the work in her field of labor. She expressed her delight in looking into the honest faces before her  faces of women who are looking to another life, and contrasted them with the vain masses of women who are wasting their efforts in fighting for lost youth. Mrs. Herrick spoke of the co-operation of the Denver Society with the charity organizations of that city. The twenty-one charity societies there are accomplishing awonderful work, and not a little assistance has been given by the local "Mormon" women. She contrasted the salaried charity workers of other organizations with the unpaid Relief Society workers, and explained a few details of the work. The Denver branch recently raised $84.18 for their own purposes Twins born several weeks after the father had fallen in the battlefield. The mother is Mrs. Elizabeth Hofer, president of the Relief Society, Frankfurt, Germany. and collected $400.00 for the United Charity Organization of Denver. One year ago there was not a Relief Society in the whole Western States Mission, two having been disorganized several years ago. At the present time there are five societies with two more ready for organization. The branches are located in Denver, Alamosa, Omaha, Trinidad and Pueblo. The total membership inthe mission is 127. They report 100 per cent subscription to the Magazine, and 100 per cent membership dues. Glimpses of Relief Society mission work abroad were vividly pictured by Mrs. Rose B. Valentine  until recently president of the Swiss-German Mission. With her husband, Mrs. Valentine entered this mission in 1911. She found that during the last twenty-five years there have been sporadic Relief Society organizations at various places. In 1911 there were only two in actual operation  those in Zurich and Konigsberg. At present there are 
 seventeen branches, all of them doing regular work at the outbreak of the war. Mrs. Valentine held the deepest interest of her audience a^ she related pathetic incidents of the war. and she stated that while the routine work of the mission had been interfered with, the hearts of the masses are being turned from the passing tilings of the world to the higher spiritual truths. Four hundred members of the Church, Mrs. Valentine stated, had gone to the war, and their places had heen taken bravely by the women left behind. These soldiers had taken with them to the trenches their missionary work, and the mission paper forwarded them by those at home free of charge had heen read to comrades on the battle-field. She described one church service on the battle-field, conducted by a member of the Church in a little chapel in a forest when his audience, the soldiers at the front, listened with intense interest to the young "Mormon." I'leas for missi inafies had been received from Russia, and Mrs. Valentine entertained the hope that the present freeing of the 200.000,000 people there might mean the opening of the country for the gospel. The speaker explained the outline work taken up by the societies and the deep interest Three Women from Budapest; the of the Swiss and German only Members of the Church there. women in their study. She told <if the humble beginnings of the charity work of these women, of their small contributions of 8 cents and 10 cents a month, of their great joy on receiving from Utah $20 for each Society for relief work. These women are not only carrying on their usual duties in their homes and for the Church, but are working evenings patching and knitting for the aid of those more needy than themselves. The speaker closed by making a strong plea for economy as practiced throughout Europe. She deprecated American waste and extravagance, and declared it to be a reproach on the people of the whole country. Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley, of the General Board, spoke on the importance of testimony bearing, and of our regular testimony GENERAL CONEERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 311 meetings; of the strength that comes to those who, having been helped and sustained through sore trials, sickness and death, are ready and willing to testify of God's blessings and mercies to them. Such testimony gives encouragement and hope to others, and spiritual development and growth to those who glorify God by testifying of his goodness to them. Intellectual and spiritual adjustment was the subject spoken upon by Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry. Mrs. Dusenberry said that many vital things are overlooked and unappreciated in our scheme of education  that the real experiences of life are more valuable educationally than mere mental application, and those who have passed through rich experiences and have made these experiences a part of their development are the truly educated. Jesus said: "Love one another," "Judge not that ye be not judged," "Forgive that ye may are simple be teachings, forgiven."yetThese they embody the noblest thought* of God. The humble beginning of the "great latter-day work by a young boy of 14, who had plenty to do but no chance for education, grows more astonishing as time goes on. It was his spiritual craving that led to his spiritual enlightenment, and his faith L. D. S. Church Headquarters at in the passage: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of Basel, Switzerland. reward. The times are such now that God," which brought the rich we go to bed at night praying to God and wake up to find in the morning some wonderful fulfilment of prophecy made by the boy the world thought so ignorant. Mrs. Dusenberry called attention to the great efforts of the 'Mormon" people along educational lines, with the early beginnings in Utah, when a schoolhouse was among the first buildings erected in the territory. She felt that their struggle for education, together with their rich experiences in temporal and spiriual things had developed them into a sane, a practical and a helpful people. There are. however, with us, as with all the world, some vital things which have been overlooked. The fact of the existence of cripples, blind people, imbeciles and prisons 
 containing people who have no purpose in life, prove that a systematic effort should be made all over the world for enlightenment along these lines. The mothers who would bring into the world healthy and normal children must themselves have health and strength, and brain power, the latter of which comes through health and strength. We meet daily on the streets people with set faces, tense bodies, and strained eyes, who are living on a nervous strain, burning the candle at both ends  .people who are being undermined with the poison of fatigue. Mrs. Dusenberry urged the women to take care of their health  for it is the nervous, tired women who become the mothers of deficient children, imbeciles and feeble-minded. The industrial world is studying this problem today. It proclaims that fatigue and nervous exhaustion are the root of ill-health and are responsible for the tragic disease of helplessness. Mrs. Dusenberry also made a plea for more sensible dress among women and girls, and heavily scored the free lorn of the movies in picturing stories that would have no place in the ordinary home. She declared there should be a state censorship over moving pictures. Some 50.000,000 adolescent boys over the country arc in daily attendance at the film theatres, and the dollars spent at such shows if placed side by side would stretch around the world, she said. All the school children of the United States going to the film theatres daily, if marching in single file, would take nineteen days to pass a given point. The picture-show has come to stay, she maintained, and it can be made a factor in education  a factor for good if it can be properly controlled. At the Wednesday afternoon meeting remarks were made by Miss Lillian Cameron, and addresses were given by Counselors Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L. Smith, by President Joseph F. Smith and Bishop Charles W. Nibley. Miss Cameron was introduced as the newest member of the General Board of the Relief Society, her appointment to this position having been made since the last regular Conference. Miss Cameron expressed herself as feeling highly honored in being chosen to serve on the Board and asked for the sympathy and support of the members in her behalf. She spoke especially on the charity work of the organization, stating that all men and women need help and support, and that we should seek to cover up the faults and failings of each other rather than to expose them. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams expressed her appreciation for the splendid addresses that had been given during the sessions of the Conference. She stated that it i^ a wondrous mission to save -"ids and that a mother should begin at her own fireside by setting an example to her own children and to the neighborhood. The mission of the Relief Socictv woman is so broad and so GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 313 elastic that it embraces every good thing in the world, and rich rewards are in store for those faithful ones who have lived lives of devotion to this cause. More than often the woman who has given the greatest service is the woman with the largest family, and because she does one line of work well she is the better prepared to accomplish other labors. Mrs. Williams stated that the Relief Society is always ready to take up new thoughts and new work and that in connection with the other auxiliary organizations, we are now called upon to work for improvement in dress and social work. She urged that all Relief Society women stand as a unit in carrying out the instructions of the First Presidency in this matter, and in following closely the recommendations which have been sent out to the various stakes and wards. The general and stake officers have pledged themeslves to show by their own example their sincerity in this matter, and to use their efforts toward the accomplishment of the purposes of this special mission. The speaker held that the love of dress is an inherent quality in women and it is right that they should love beautiful things provided they are modest and not extravagant, but she felt that the women of America are going dress and fashion crazy. She urged the mothers to teach modesty and the sacredness of the human body to their children, and stated that mothers themselves are often to blame for the immodest dress of their daughters. In the old days Brigham Young called upon the women of the Church to retrench and reform in the matter of dress, and if the people had in all these years lived up to this teaching there would be no need now for President Smith to make this special ^all on the women of today. Mrs. Williams said that no other thing that we have compares with the sacred heritage of children, and that parents should set the right example, should be companions to their boys and girls, if they would have proper influence with them. She asked God's blessings on the mothers in Israel, that they may have faith, courage and enlightenment and that they may be inspired to carry on the work they are from time to time called upon to do. Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke of the work of the old Retrenchment Society, in the days of Brigham Young, of the success of that organization along the lines of improvement in dress. She denounced vigorously the prevailing immodesty in dress, and asked the mothers to carry out the instructions of the First Presidency by working unitedly for reform and improvement. Mrs. Smith also condemned race suicide  speaking of it as one of the great curses of the age. She stated that if girls do not desire to take up the burden of motherhood they should not marry. The lack of wealth is no excuse for limiting the family. She declared that if the women of the Church desire to endure faithful 
 to the end they must live up to their knowledge of the things of God. She said we have received the word of the Lord from the head of the Church, and there is only one man on earth at a time qualified to give that authoritative word; women need not run to any man or listen to old woman's dreams and revelations, for the word of the Lord comes only through His authorized servant. President Joseph F. Smith then addressed the congregation afollows: PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH, I would very much prefer to listen to some of the good sisters talk to the sisters, and I hardly know what the spirit of the meeting calls for, or what necessities there are for me to say anything. Iam very grateful for the privilege of being here with you. I think it is a great privilege for me to live in these last days, and 1 exceedingly enjoy the multiplicity of blessings that the Lord has mercifully bestowed upon me and mine throughout all my life. And vet T cannot say, nor boast, that the experiences of my life have all been just what 1 would have liked them to be: and I have been required, a portion of my time at least, to pass through some of the "narrows" incident to the early settlement in the valleys of the Great Salt Lake. I had the experience in my youth of traversing the plains. I had an experience as a herd boy and as a farmer, a sheep man and a stock grower, on a small scale. We in ver entered into these matters of business extensively, but to a degree necessary to keep the wolf from the door, and to provide for tlu' necessities of a considerable family. 1 have bad experience in all of these things, which 1 appreciate more than T can tell. Jn my travels in later years I have seen conditions wlrch existe 1 among our communities that needed correction and advice; and through the experiences that 1 had gained in early life T was enabled to give advice an 1 counsel many times to our people that I think was beneficial to them. 1 remember on one occasion \ visited one of our new settlements in the northern part of our country, where the valley was high and the warm season of the year was extremely short, and all the heat and moisture that could be had was necessary to produce crops. T witnessed the fact that the whole valley was extremely well watered. This was in the month of August. T believe, and 1 observed that the water in large streams was running through the farms, and the grain was looking green and beautiful. 1 spoke at the Conference meeting that convened, and took the liberty to advise the good people of that valley to turn the water from their crops and give them a chance in dry out a little and to ripen, to gather a little warmth. That was quite a number of years ago. The Bishop, who was a much GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 315 older man than I was, announced after my advice, that "Brother Joseph might know something about preaching the gospel, but he did not know very much about farming." I stayed with a kinsman of mine that evening, and I advised him to go at once and turn the water away from his crops. I said if that is not done they will be green when the frost comes and you will lose your grain. He accepted my counsel, and did as I said, and he was about the only man in the settlement'that had ripened grain that fall, or that harvested good crops at least. So, I gained that experience in my youth. It is a good thing today. But what has that to do with the sisters? Why, bless your soul, I have taken a great deal of pleasure in reading the report of the Relief Society's collection of grain, the storing of grain throughout the country, amounting to millions of pounds, and to hundreds and thousands of bushels of grain. Now frost is still in the ground this the fourth day of April, and in some parts of our country there is a foot of snow yet lying all over the farms. How long it may take the sun to melt this snow and put the ground in condition to be cultivated 1 do not know; but it is possible that we will have an early fall after a very short season this year, and if our grain crop is extremely light it may be that the sisters will not be able to lay up as much grain as they would like to. And I want to say to you that we approve very heartily the idea of having a little breadstuff on hand which, if we do not need ourselves, we can impart to those who do need or will need it in the future. It may be very highly necessary for us to help our neighbors to live, and I think W ought to be careful, industrious, frugal and saving with the materials that the Lord has so bountifully blessed us with hitherto, ?nd we sincerely hope that we will be worthy of his continued blessings. Now, my sisters, as I have expressed my feelings many times, I will again say that I think the Relief Society organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is one of the most important and necessary and blessed organizations that has been devised since the organization of the Church itself. It is a helpful organization, not only in those things that help to make up the material life, but essential in those things which are of more importance really to the immortal soul than those things which perish and which are confine d solely to the necessities of mortal life. I believe that the authority and the influence of this organization should be exerted in behalf of the spiritual welfare and upbuilding of the daughters of Zion and of your sisters throughout all the world, so far as your influence can possibly extend. I think that no women in all the world should be better qualified to live aright than the women who have membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and who have the privilege of being associated with this Woman's Relief Society. 
 I think that the best mothers in the world should be found, and d nsistently found, amongthe Latter-day Saints. I believe the best wives in all the world are found among the Latter-day Saints I do not know of any other women in the worl 1 that have the same conception of wifehood and motherhood that the Lattert'ay Saints possess. Our associations are not exclusively intended for this life, for time, as we distinguish it from eternity. We live for time and for eternity. We" form associations and re lations for time and all eternity. Our affections and our desires are found fitted and prepared to endure not only throughout the temporal or, mortal life, but through all eternity. Women in the world do not contemplate such a tiling as this; they do not believe in it. They long for it, no doubt; they hope that such things do or may exist. But who, aside from the Latter-day Saints, have an established religion revealed from God which is i 'tended to so fix these principles in the minds and in the hearts of ihc sons and daughters of ( rod in a manner that will help them to shape their lives now so that they will be prepared to continue the ties they form here in the eternities that are to come? I do not believe that a woman or man who has not the same conception that we have with reference to the object of life and with reference to the future of our lives, can possibly value life as we do. I do not think any one other than those who possess the faith and the doctrines that we do can entertain the same affection for one.?mother that we do. or that will strive so diligently and so earnestl) to make things pleasant for ourselves and for those who are; ssociated with us in life, wih a view that we may continue our desirable relations together in t:me and in all eternity. Who are there besides the Latter-day Saints who contemplate the thought that beyond the grave we will continue in the family organization? the father, the mother, the children recognizing each other in the relations which they owe to each other and in which they stand to each other? this family organization being a unit in the great and perfect organization of God's work, and all destined to continue throughout time and eternity? My sisters, we have something to hope for, something to live for, something to awaken our desire for that which is better and nobler and more exalting. We are living for eternity and not merely for the moment. Death does not part us from one another. if we have entered into sacred relationships with each other by virtue of the authority that God has revealed to the children of men. Our relationships are formed for eternity. We are immortal beings, and we are looking forward to the growth that is to be attained in an exalted life after we have proved ourselves faithful and true to the covenants that we have entered into here, and then we will receive a fulness of joV. I most sincerely hope that the mothers of Israel will guard very zealously GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 317 and very carefully the lives of their daughters and of their sons. 1 would if I had it in my power make it possible for all mothers to have the joy and the unspeakable satisfaction of rearing their sons and their daughters above the reproach of men and above the power of sin. I would that all Latter-day Saints could live so that their example would be so potent in the lives of their families that forever after their children would rise up and call them blessed, and thank God for their relationship to their parents, and honor their parents for their worthy example and for the lives that they gave them, and for the virtues and purity of life that were inculcated in their being. I would like to see our young people honor the aged. I would like to see children honor their parents and respect and love them, and be obedient to their counsel. Who can counsel a child with greater solicitude for the benefit and wellbeing and happiness of that child better than can the father and the mother? No one. No one can love our children just as we love them, if we are possessed of our talents, if we understand our destiny aright and the calling to which we are called as we should understand it. No one can understand our children better than we. No one can have greater solicitude for their happiness than we have. And so the children ought to honor their parents and hearken to their counsel. And a man and woman who have embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ and w ho have begun life together, should be able by their power, example and influence to cause their children to emulate them in lives of virtue, honor and in integrity to the kingdom of God which will redound to their own interest and salvation. No one can advise my children with greater earnestness and solicitude for their happiness and salvation than I can do myself. Nobody has more interest in the welfare of my own children than I have. I cannot be satisfied without them. They are part of me. They are mine; God has given them to me, and I want them to live, and I want them to be honorable. I want them to be humble and submissive to the requirements of the gospel. I want them to do right, and to be right in every particular so that they will be worthy of the distinction that the Lord has given them in being numbered among his covenant people who are choice above all other people, because they have made sacrifice for their own salvation in the truth. Speaking of the fashions of the world, I do not care to say very much on the subject, but I do think that we live in an age the very trend of which is to vice and wickedness. I believe that to a very large extent the fashion? of the day, and especially the fashions of women, have a tendency to evil and not to virtue or modesty, and I deplore that evident fact, for you see it on every hand. I deplore the fact that our young women as well as some of our young men  and I don't know whether I would be justi- 
 Red in making any distinction between the young men and the young women wih reference to this matter are loath to enter into the relationships of husband and wife until they get to be a great deal older than I was when 1 began life in that way. and considerably older than my wives were when they entered into that relationship with me. Young men want to get homes that are palatial, that are as fine in all their appointments and as modern as anybody else's hefore they will pet married. T think it is a mistake. I think that young men and young women, too, should he willing, even at this day and in the present condition < f things, to enter the sacred bonds of marriage together and fight their way together to success, meet their obstacles and their difficulties, and cleave together and co-operate in their temporal affairs, so that they shall succeed. Then they will learn to love one another better, and will be more united throughout their lives, and the Lord will bless them more abundantly. I regret, I think it is a crying evil, that there should exist a sentiment or a feeling among any members of the Church to curtail the birth of their children. T think that is a crime wherever it occurs, where husband and wife are in possession of health and vigor and are free from impurities that would be entailed upon their posterity. I believe that where people undertake to curtail or prevent the birth of their children that they are going to reap disappointment by and by. I have no hesitancy in saying that T believe this is one of the grea'test crimes of the world today, this evil practice. Xow, I would rather some of the sisters would talk about these things. They can do it better than I can, for they understand them quite as well as T do, although I am a man of some little experience in family matters; the Lord has given me some forty-five children of my own, and I have had the pleasure and joy of rearing most of them to manhood and womanhood, and some of them are still growing in that direction. The mothers of my children who have been the most blessed with a multiplicity of children are the healthiest, strongest and most able bodied women that I know of. They have never.deteriorated through the observance of the principles of life and of natural increase. Now I think I ought to let the sisters talk about these things to you, my sisters; but I am mighty thankful that the mothers of my children have borne me all the way from seven to eleven or twelve children apiece, and they are not sorry for it either. We have not had any too many; in fact, we had to take other people's children, because we did not feel that we had done our duty altogether, and we have raised other children besides our own. and adopted them, and have been for long years grandfathers and grandmothers, and great grandfathers and great grandmothers to their children. Rut T have no occasion to boast GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 319 particularly of that. I am thankful for the blessings of life which we enjoy; and, sisters, let me say to you, that one of the great tlv'ngs is entrustedthat should be looked the care into rearing and the carefullyofbytheir all mothers to whom children, is. the great and glorious truth that the Lord Almighty is doing this work, and not man. God is at the helm. The Lord has laid the foundation of this work through the instrumentality of His servants whom He has raised up for that purpose, and He has never submitted to the dictation of man since the first revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith to this day. The Lord Almighty has never left the dictation of His work, nor the personal guidance and direction of His work, to any man that has ever stood at the head, or ever will stand at the head of this great work. I believe that those who have stood at the head of this work have invariably and without exception been guided in all their lives in relation to the advancement of the cause of Zion, by the power of God in them and not by their own wisdom and strength. If we could teach our children this; if we could get this principle embodied in their hearts, it would be well. All our children ought to know that it is the Lord's work, that it is not Joseph F. Smith's, it is not President Anthon H. Lund's, nor President Charles W. Penrose's; it is not the work of John Taylor, nor Wilford Woodruff, nor Lorenzo Snow, nor Brigham Young, nor Joseph Smith the Prophet. We honor these men in the positions that they have occupied; we love them for their integrity and their stability in their calling and their faitfulness. We love them for it, and we will always hold them in veneration for the faithfulness and trust that were imposed in them. But when we take into consideration the cause of the work, the purposes of the work, its progress, its increase in the midst of the earth against all the oppositions that have been arrayed against it in the world, we must consider that the work is God's and not man's. If we could only get that into our hearts and into the hearts of our children, they would not be easily led into by-paths, they would not easily be deceived, they would not easily turn away from the right path, because they would realize that they would be turning away from God, not from President Smith or President Young. Some men have apostatized because they got into a little difference with President Young, or with President Taylor, or perhaps with President Smith or whoever it may have been as the head of the Church, or perhaps the Bishop. Some people I have known, have denied the faith, and have gone away from the gospel of Jesus Christ because they got angry at the Bishop, or thought the Bishop was not doing his duty. What foolishness! Can you conceive of anything more nonsensical than that -a man or a woman whose salvation depends upon his or her own fidelity in the cause of Zion turning away from his or her hopes of hap- 
 piness because somelxxly cistfails to do right, or they think somebody else fails to do the right thing. I never heard of anything more foolish in my life than that a man should be offended before God and should turn away from the love of God in whom there is no shadow of variableness nor turning, because he gets offended at some of his brethren. Now I have made up my mind long years ago that it doesn't make any difference, or would not make any difference to me, who did right or who did wrong in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That is not my business. My business is to see to it that 1 do right, that I maintain my standing in t lie Church, that I am devoted to principle myself, and I have no determination, nor wish, nor thought, that is not and may not be seconded by the blessing of the Lord. T know that I could not do anything without His blessing, without His favor, wihout His mercy. I do not expect to be able to stand, any more than I have ever been able to stand, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints without the help of the Lord, and I do not like to see men nor women get so strong within themselves that they think that they could stand by themselves and of themselves. They cannot do it. We must have the Spirit of the Lord with us, mothers and sisters, in order that we may be enabled to endure the temptation and trials and anxieties of life and stand the test to the end. \<>w T am iofringing upon your time. I am pleased to see so many of us here. 1 certainly feel that my whole soul goes out in love, in appreciation and blessing to the mothers in Israel, those who are associated with this glorious, great organization, the Womens' Relief Society. T feel in my heart to bless you, mothers and sisters, with all my heart and with all the power and right that I possess in the priesthood which is after the order of the Son of I rod. I hold the power and the right to pronounce patriiarchal blessings. I have the right and the authority in the priesthood to bless Israel, and to bless those who are faithful, espe daily; and T feel in my heart to say T bless you. May God bless you, which is greater than all. But if I bless you in the spirit of righteousness and in the Spirit of God and in the true love of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and of the doctrines of Zion, Go I will bless you, too, for He will recognize and acknowledge the blessing that is pronounced by His faithful servants when those blessings are given in the spirit of the gospel and in the love of the people of God. The Lord bless you. Here is our dear Aunt Fm, who has the honor to stand as the President of the board of directors of this great organization in Zion. The Lord has preserved her life till she is past eighty-nine years, still possessing her faculties, her memory and her intellect, and a wonderful amount of physical energy for one of her extreme age. I am proud and thankful that the Lord is so merciful to her and to GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 321 those who are associated with her in this great organization, and I pray that the same blessings may be extended unto all those who are called to presiding positions in the various organizations of the Relief Society throughout the Church in all lands, which may God grant, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. At the close of the address of President Smith, Bishop Charles W. Nibley made the following remarks: BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. I will detain you, my dear sisters, but a moment or two, as the time has already expired for closing your meeting. I endorse heartily the words that have been spoken by our President. They are the words of eternal life. They are given by the same spirit that the Savior enjoyed when Peter said, "Lord, if we turn from thee, There to iswhom salvationshall in we the go?counsel Thou hast the words and advice of eternal of the servantslife." of the Lord who give their best efforts,  the best efforts of their lives  to their labors in the ministry. I am proud of this organization. I speak of it wherever I go among strangers. It is my chief theme, I may say, in connection with the gospel work. I refer to the wonderful service that these sisters, these organizations are giving to the Church, and the wonderful and magnificent examples that they are showing to the world. They are as a city set upon a hill, whose light cannot be hid. Men note it, marvel at it, and thoughtful men say at once, "Well, there is something wonderful in it!" As has been stated, we are living in the most wonderful age of all the history of this world. Things are transpiring, matters are coming to pass, not only with respect to this little handful of people, but with respect to the millions of people in the world. Events are transpiring, in such a way and in such rapid succession, that we see clearly that the Lord is cutting his great work short in righteousness. He will not do that which is unrighteous, but so far as He can cut it short in righteousness, that is, .do it in a righteous, just manner, He will do it. He said He would cut it short in righteousness. Now we see these things are coming to pass. You are custodians, in a way, of some of His purposes and a certain amount of His work. You have in charge, certainly, the greatest work given to any women in all the history of the world. I believe I am perfectly safe in saying that, to you is given the leadership among the women of all the world. Is not that worth something? "Though the great and the wise," as Brother Penrose's song has it. "all thy beauties despise, to the humble and pure thou art dear." The principles that you have are grand, the lives that you are permitted to lead, the blessings that you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. bestow, the helpfulness that you give, the service that you render to the Church and to the world are magnificent. Your work is Morions. I believe with all my heart and soul that it is approved of the Lord. I feel sure it is. That being so, the blessing of the Lord will follow you. The blessing of the President of the high priesthood of His Church is upon you and upon your work. Is not that a great and splendid thing in every way? I do not see how you could be more blessed. 1 endorse most thoroughly the expression of President Smith in that the Lord can use me or you, every one of us, if we allow Him to do it. and if we will keep humble. lie cannot use the haughty. He cannot use the person who sets himself or herself up to be a great big something above everybody else; but the bumble, the meek, the lowly of heart, the strong also, the resolute and determined  these He can use and He will make them the leading spirits in His Church. He is doing it, and has done it. The Lord is blessing you wonderfully. The work that you have done, the work that you are doing, I say again, is marvelous, it is grand. Continue in it. my dear sisters. Be faithful in it. Be devoted to it. Persevere, have courage, fear not, and God will be with you. You will be blessed more abundantly than ever, and you will be set even upon a higher bill, so to speak, before all the world, and all the world will yet glorify the name of our God because of your good works. Amen. At the close of the afternoon session, Mrs. Susa Young Gates presented the following resolutions on Birth Control and moved their adoption. Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth seconded the motion, and it was enthusiastically carried by the vast assemblage: RESOLUTIONS CONCERNING RIRTII CONTROL OR RACE SUICIDE PRESENTED TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS. IN COOFERECE ASSEMBLED APRILS. 1017, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. ]Vhereas, Many of the men and women, clubs and papers r.f the United States arc uniting in an effort to violate the laws of God and nature by urging the use of the contraceptive devices to prevent child-bearing, thus giving greater license to abandoned men and women, while making of marriage a mockery in the sigh) of God, and JVhereas. This birth-prevention movement has become nation-wide with a "Birth Control League" which publishes a paper GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 323 and which has affiliated with similar organizations in England, Holland, Germany, France, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Bohemia, Austria, Portugal, Brazil, Cuba, Sweden, Italy and Africa; with United States branches in Ann Arbor, Michigan; Boston, Massachusetts; Cleveland, Ohio; Denver, Colorado; Detroit. Michigan; Indianapolis, Indiana; Los Angeles, California; Minneapolis, Minnesota; New York: The Birth Control League of New York; The Committee of One Thousand; The Mother's Birth Control League of Brownsville, Brooklyn; The National Birth Control League; The Woman's Committee of One Hundred Painesville, ; Ohio; Paterson, New Jersey; Pittsburg, PennsylvaniPortland, a; Oregon; Rochester, New York; St. Louis, Missouri; St. Paul, Minnesota; The Minnesota State Birth Control League; The Birth Control League of San Francisco; The Seattle Birth Control League; Spokane, Washington; Washington, D. C, The Birth Control League of Washington. Whereas, Clubs such as the New York City Club and similar clubs in other cities are actively engaged in petitioning legislatures to pass laws protecting these nefarious practices by demanding the repeal of anti-birth-control laws, supported in part by the medical and journalistic profession, and Whereas, We desire to manifest our faith in God's laws by a movement for better babies and as many of them as virtuous marriage, and the decrees of a just and merciful Father will permit the parents of this people to bear; Therefore be it Resolved: That we call upon the Latterter-day Saint women everywhere to repel this pernicious doctrine both in private conversation, in public talks, in our own homes and families; and to pass similar resolutions in all our stake and ward organizations, and then to live up to them. Resolved: That we sever all connections with any club, society, or associates who advocate and practice birth-control or race suicide. That we refuse to sustain papers, magazines, publishers and writers who teach this doctrine. Resolved: That we sustain by our voice and vote all laws and law-makers who advocate and maintain laws prohibiting every unnatural and immoral birth-control propaganda. And be it Resolved, in conclusion, that we invite the co-operation and support of the Priesthood quorums and auxiliary organizations of the Church in this effort to maintain our high and holy ideals and principles. OFFICERS' MEETING. Morning Session.  At the opening of the officers' meeting. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams explained that the two officers' meetings had been limited to stake officers because the room 
, would not accommodate both stake and ward officers. She recommended that the stake officers pay the strictest attention to all matters of business, taking notes of the imporant items in order that they might take hack to the societies the instructions that were given. After the roll call the annual financial and statistical general report of the Society was read by the General Secretary. Amy Brown Lyman, and was listened to with the closest attention by all officers present. The stake officers all being familiar with their ( wn respective reports listened with the greatest of interest for the final totals of the general report. The report showed the Society to he growing in all departments of its work. The balance net resources at the present time are $606,087.57. and the wheat on hand 215,393^ bushels all property being held in the respective wards. The shrinkage and waste in wheat is less this year than any previous year, due to the fact that better wheat is being stored and better methods of storing are being employed. Comment was made on the fact that wheat had reached a very high market price and satistaction was felt over the priceless value of grain so patiently stored by the Relief Society women. The report showed the present membership of the Society to be 43.894 and the number of branches. 1.191. These figures include the various missions of the Church. The amount paid for charitable purposes for the vear 1916 was $55,162.25. Mrs. Lyman praised the work of the stake secretaries in compiling the stake reports, stating that their work had shown remarkable intelligence and ability on their part. The reports from the following stakes were pronounced perfect: Alpine. Blackfoot. Boise. Box Elder. Cottonwood, No. Weber, Ogden. Salt Lake, Shelley. Snowflake, Young. Central States Mission, European Mission. Hawaiian Mission and Southern States Mission. The following stakes had very slight errors: Bingham. Cache. Granite. Jordan. Liberty. Maricopa. Pioneer, St. Joseph, Sevier, So. Davis, So. Sanpete; Western States Mission, Eastern States Mission, California Mission. The following reports were pronounced as good reports: Alberta, Bear Lake. Deseret. Ensign. ITvrum, Malad, No. Davis, No. Sanpete, Oneida, Panguitch. Raft River, St. George, St. Johns, San Juan, San Luis, Tooele, Union, Yellowstone. Mrs. Lyman reported the following changes in stake organizations: Bannock Stake. President Gwen H. Redford in place of Julia A. Pond, resigned. Bingham Stake, Mayme H. Laird. President, in place of Elvira C. Steele, resigned. Boise Stake, Laura J. Adamson, President, in place of Mary A. Rawson, resigned. GENERAL CONFERENCE OE RELIEF SOCIETY. 325 t Curlew Stake, Rebecca N. Cutler, President, in place of Mary E. Bennett, resigned. No. Weber Stake, Lucy A. Steers, President, in place of Georgina G. Marriott, resigned. Oneida Stake, Nellie P. Head, President, in place of Lousia B. Benson, resigned. Panguitch Stake. Sarah E. Cameron, President, in place of Hannah A. Crosby, resigned. Wasatch stake, Sophia G. Luke, President, in place of Johannah Jensen, resigned. Woodruff Stake, Zina Taggart, President in place of Phoebe Brough, resigned. One new stake has been reported organized during the year the Idaho stake, Sarah M. McClellan, president. Attention was called to the fact that there are now in the Society three Lamanite branches located as follows: Wolf Point, Northwestern States Mission, membership, 35; Catawba, Southern States Mission, membership, 16: Papago Ward, Maricopa Stake, membership, 22. The women in these Societies are especially interested in visiting and caring for the sick. Attention was also called to the report that a Relief Society has been organized in the Tahitian Mission, with a membership of 84. The remainder of the morning session was turned over to a dicussion of Relief Society problems. The discussion was led by Counselor Clarissa S. Williams and participated in by the whole body of officers. Afternoon Session. At the afternoon session remarks were made by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Lucy May Green, Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. Mrs. Gates gave a brief report of the Genealogical work and made some suggestions for the future. She felt gratified with the results of the Society in their work on living record sheets, index cards, and in the numerous excursions to the temple. The annual report shows that 26,201 days have been spent in temple work, an increase of 9,312 over the number of days reported for last year. Mrs. Gates regretted that it had been impossible to furnish the books that were suggested at the beginning of the year, and because of the great disappointment in this matter the Genealogical Society of Utah decided to compile a book on surnames for the use of all organizations interested in Genealogical research. Material for this book is now ready for the printers, and the book will be out in time for our fall work. The speaker stated that  to all genealogical questions in the wards should be referred the stake president. Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who had just returned from an 
 excutive session of the National Woman's Suffrage Association, where she went as a -delegate from the Utah Suffrage Association, reported that preparedness was the watch ward throughout the women's organization of the East. This meeting which she had just attended was called to devise some plan of assistance to the Nation during the present war crisis. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, president of the association, said it is not enough in the face of the present situation for women to make mere protestations of loyalty to the Government, but that they should devise some plan of assisting which would be definite in scope and practical in character and which the women should guarantee to perform. Practically the whole country was represented at that meeting, and the women assembled pledged themselves to wage a campaign for increasing the food supply by encouraging thrift and economy and by the elimination of waste. Mrs. Richards reported that one thousand women have enrolled themselves in a national service school at Washington, D. C, for a course of five weeks' encampment, during which time they will live under military discipline and receive instructions from men  commissioned officers of the Army and Navy. The uniform for the women taking this course is an olive drab coat and skirt, one army blouse, olive necktie, high laced tan boots and campaign hat and olive cord. Personal baggage is limited to one suit case and a hand bag. Jewelry and vanity boxes are absolutely barred. Stringent health regulations are to be observed, and no one will be admitted without a health certificate showing that the applicant can endure camp routine. While it is not intended to place women aboard ships they may be utilized for shore duty as stenographers, book-keepers, general clerks, etc., and it is felt that the discipline and training received in this camp will make them more efficient for service. Mrs. Richards stated that in connection with the National Council, to which the Relief Society belongs, the Suffrage Association expects to register the powers and resources of the women of the organization. Mrs. Lucy May Green, Chorister of the Granite stake Relief Society choir read a paper on "Music in the Relief Society." This paper contained many practical hints and suggestions. We give the following excerpts: "In the brief glimpses given us in the scriptures of our preexistent state, we learn that music has formed a part of the worship of God since before the dawn of creation. The first account we have on record is 'when the foundations of the earth were laid, when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy.' Music is the only art which is mentioned GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 327 in the scriptures as a part of heaven itself. We read of the music of the angels, also of the song of the redeemed, of the new song which will be sung by them, songs of everlasting joy. In Section 84 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we have the words given of a beautiful anthem which will be sung by the Saints at the redemption of Zion. While the Israelites were in captivity in Babylon, they were often required, by the Chaldeans, to 'sing the songs of Zion.' The Prophet Joseph dearly loved music, and made it a part of all the gathering s of this Church. His successors in office have encouraged 'this art, and the fame of our great organ and Tabernacle Choir has gone abroad throughout the world. The Lord set the seal of his divine approval on the song of praise when he commanded that Emma Smith should make a selection of sacred hymns to be used in the Church. "One of the objects of the organization of the Relief Society was for women to gain knowledge and to develop along higher lines. We have progressed rapidly in many directions: in charitable work, in storing wheat, in the fields of home nursing, in theology, literature, "and art. Until recent years, however, we have paid very little attention to music in this Society. We have been quite content to sing without instrumental support, often without a leader, and still more often without books. The time has come when we should wake up musically and do our part in this department of the service of the Lord. It is an inspiration and will lift the soul above the trials of life and bring comfort and hope. Hand in hand with the preaching of the gospel should be the music of the gospel. The success of the great evangelist Moody was largely due to the sweet singing of his wonderful musical companion, Ira D. Sankey. "The hymn sung by John Taylor, 'A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief,' gave the Prophet Joseph the courage and strength to bear the last hours in Carthage Jail, and the song 'Come, Come, Ye Saints' cheered the Pioneers on their weary march across the plains. "Let us make music an important part of our gatherings. First in every stake and ward we should choose a good chorister and organist. Wherever it is possible to do so, stake and ward choirs should be organized. Relief Society choirs should lead the singing in all of our Relief Society gatherings. It would halfa hour be good" occasionally practice would thing if the to presidents allow with the Society, that new the chorister hymns and songs might be learned. This might be possible on I tome Economics day. "Membership in stake Relief Society choirs should consist of all ward choristers, assistants, organists and local choir members. There are many who used to sing in girlhood days who 
 would be glad to sing again; and others, especially those from foreign lands, deem it a privilege to take an active part in the worship of praise. In stakes where the wards are scattered it night be advisable to meet before the regular monthly officers' meetinng. Other practices might be announced aside from the regular monthly practice. It is not wise to confine  your choir to all young people; there are many good voices among the elderly women, who with a little experience will do really good work. "A competent organist is a necessity, and where it is possible to use the piano as well as the organ, so much the better. Be sure and have plenty of alto. It is rarely possible to sing four part music owing to the inability of getting good second sopranos, and second altos but there are many beautiful duets and trios which can be sung. Have plenty of congregational singing; learn some of the hymns that are rarely sung, and sing them often. You will find many of them in the Sunday School Song Book, The Psalmody, and some of our earlier anthem books, and there are many beautiful songs in Parks' Concert Quartetts. New hymns often appear in our various Church magazines. "Tn choosing soloists and members of quartets, use judgment (1 change your singers at times: have no favorites. The secret of success is work. Set your standard as high as possible, but remember that what a Relief Society choir may lack in musical ability, may be more than made up in love of the work, in faithfulness and willing service. "In conclusion let me express the hope that sometime soon the General Board will publish for us a Relief Society song book, a collection of songs, hymns, duets, trios and choruses set to music especially arranged for women's voices. Until that t:me arrives. let us choose the best music available, and use all that expresses the spirit and genius of the Relief Society work." Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, business manager of the Relief Society Magazine, gave some instructions to officers and Magazine agents with regard to proper methods of carrying on business in connection with the General Office. Mrs. Hyde made the following suggestions: 1. All Magazine agents should use for subscriptions the proper printed forms that are supplied by the General Office. All lists sent in by agents are filed for future reference, and when names come in on papers of all shapes and sizes great inconvenience is encountered in looking up and checking names. All lists should contain the date when sent. 2. Agents should keep duplicate copies of all lists sent to the General Office so that when questions arise as to names and addresses the agent may refer to her own copy. Agents should give individual receipts to subscribers, using the receipt books GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 329 furnished by the General Office. All receipts should contain the date when issued. 3. All names should be written plainly with addresses complete. In many instances Magazines have been lost because the box number or the R. F. D. has been left off by agents in sending in addresses, and the mistake is not discovered until several Magazines have miscarried. 4. All Magazine letters and subscription lists should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, except articles and material for the editor, and not to any individual. All money orders and checks sent in for Magazine subscriptions should be made payable to the Relief Society Magazine, and not to any individual. 5. Nothing but Magazine orders and letters pertaining to Magazine work should come to the Relief Society Magazine. All other communications should be addressed to the General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman. Mrs. Hyde expressed her great interest in the business end (if the Magazine work, and asked for the co-operation of all Magazine agents in working for greater efficiency along business lines. She took the opportunity to thank all the stake officers present for their hearty support of the Magazine which has been greatly appreciated in the General Office. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams reported that the National Council of Women has recently held an executive session in Washington. D. C. to consider the advisability of offering the help of the women of the Council to the Government in connection with the war. She stated that Miss Margaret Edward, President of the Relief Society in the Eastern States Mission, had represented at this meeting very where ably it the was General decided Board of Relief to register Society tabulate the powers and resources of the women of all organizations belonging to the Council. Mrs. Williams further explained that the Relief Society itself felt that a tabulation of the powers and resources of the women of the organization would be excellent information  for our own files, and to this end letters on this subject with proper blank forms will soon be sent to all stake presidents with instructions as to the information  to be tabulated. The Baby Week campaign was explained by the speaker. She stated that the General Boards of the auxiliary organizations of the Church, in connection with other organizations are doing what they can to further the work of saving the babies. Baby Week this year has been set for May 1st to May 6th. The purpose of the campaign in general is educational, the desire being to give the parents of the community the opportunity of learning the facts with regard to the care of their babies and the need of constant effort and permanent work for their welfare and protection. Stake officers were instructed to ask their ward officers to join 
 with other auxiliary organizations to co-operate in making plans for this week. It is recommended that in arranging for meetings the local officers should secure capable and enthusiastic speakers who will be able to give intelligent and authentic advice with regard to the care of children. Mrs. Williams said that letters on this subject would be sent out immediately to stake presidents. Mrs. Williams reported a very successful year for the Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing. Seven students from the Obstetrics class took the State Medical Board examination and all passed successfully and will receive certificates from the Utah Medical Board which will entitle them to practice Obstetrics in Utah. The School of Obstetrics and Nursing for next year will open in September. 1017, to continue for eight months. It was explained that an effort will be made during the next year to give the students in this school opportunity for some practical experience in nursing by having each one spend a few hours a week in the sink room. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman announced that circulars on Dress and Dancing would be sent to all the women officers in the Church in a very short time, that those going to stake officers would be sent to stake presidents, an I those going to ward officers would be sent through the Presiding Bishop's Office to the ward bishops for delivery to ward officers. Mrs. Lyman announced that the Relief Society stake Conferences which are held in connection with the quarterly Conferences would begin in May and continue throughout May. June and July. Such Conferences as are held independent of stake Conferences, (in the near-by stakes) would be held in November. She stated that Conference dates with suggestive programs would be mailed out immediately to stake presidents. Mrs. W. W. Riter was given a few minutes to speak upon the work of the Red Cross. She urged all members to assist the movement by joining the Sorely, and explained that the following day had been set apart by the Re 1 Cross for soliciting memberships on the street. President Emmelinc B. Wells made a few closing remarks asking Cod's blessing on the work of the Relief Society, that all the members might be prospered in the work which they were railed to do. and that if any should be called to the other side before another Conference, they would die in the Lord. After the benediction by Mrs. Elizabeth C. Wilcox, the Conference was adjourned for six months. The General "Board of the Relief Society is very grateful for the splendid services of the very capable ushers from the Liberty stake who were instrumental in making everybody comfortable, and in handling the large crowds so efficiently.