[WomansExponent | Vol17 | 1888 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: DEAR HOMESPUN: | Author: Unknown]

DEAR HOMESPUN:
	I have been looking in vain the last few
weeks for something from you in your distant
home. Many times, while enjoying your vivid
pen pictures of sea, sky and land, I have felt
the impulse to write and thank you for the
pleasure your words were giving me; but press-
ing duties, procrastination and other excuses
have delayed my oft-repeated determination. 
But now that your pen has been idle for some
time, I have thought much of you, and shall
address you a few lines through our brave little
EXPONENT.
	You may wonder if we at home imagine you
have nought else to do in that lazy, tropical
clime, but sit under the fragrant shade of
orange trees, or on the glinting sea shore, and
while listening to the music of the waves,
dream tranquil dreams and write epistles for
our edification. I know too well, that in that
land, where even nature inclines one to idleness,
and the indolent though graceful movements of
the dusky people around you, betray the inertia
the climate produces, yet a mother's hands, and
she the wife of a Laie missionary, must not be
idle- Well I know the routine of the days
and weeks, which, though lovely and monoton-
ous, are ever busy. I often picture you in
your Island home, sitting on the green sward
in front of your little white cottage (by the
way, do you not wish that everlasting green
would sometimes change, that you might see it
covered with a white mantle of beautiful snow?)
Yes I fancy you there talking to and teaching
the little dark skinned urchins, and probably
those who have reached maturity, standing with
wonder-opened eyes and mouths, or, more likely,
lying flat on their stomachs, gazing with wor-
shipful admiration at your own little ones,
whose sweet white faces and delicate forms are
rendered still more beautiful by contrast; or
perhaps the grateful shades of evening are ap-
proaching, and the laborers are returning from
the cane fields and mill; and are calling to give
you Aloha, and to crave your substantial sym-
pathy in their "Pilikia."
	And now comes a picture of the quiet, calm
Sabbath morning. Oh, how excessively calm!
Slowly, dreamily the natives wend their way to
church, in holiday dress, in all its starchy
glory. You wonder as much at the almost
faultless taste of one dress, adorned with such 
matchless blossoms, as you do at the incongru-
ous mingling of color and make of another.
When the services, conducted in the native
language (merely an indistinguishable chain of
words at first, but now quite readily under-
stood), are concluded you go through the usual
and general handshaking, and, finally, when the
day has been spent as best it may, and the moon is
glorious in her beauty, while the continuous
voice of the waves seems to intensify the pre-
vailing stillness, you, with a few friends, meet
at the mansion house, and there enjoy your ex-
clusive worship, which is the nearest approach
you have to home-life in the mountains, of
which you would much rather I would tell
you, but your writings have so often brought
these pictures to my mind, that I cannot re-
frain disclosing the responsive chord you have
touched in my heart and memory.
	Time is passing, and your Sandwich Island
life will soon be almost like a dream of the
past, fraught with the brightest and saddest


of memories, but the influence of your work
and example will remain a beautiful reality, 
bringing you such peace and content, that only
those can experience who have been purified
by suffering and trial.
	You and I may know each other better,
someday, and, I trust, pass pleasant hours to-
gether; until then, believe me to be,
			Your friend,
						AUNT POLLY.
	Salt Lake City, Aug 10. 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
		MILLVILLE P. A.
	Primary annual meeting of Millville, held June
5th, 1888. Opened with singing. Prayer by
Elder J. King. Singing. Minutes of last
annual meeting read and approved; also the
annual reports. Programme: Recitation,
Ephraim Jassop; Recitation, Lula Holt; song,
Florence Henrie. Acting Counselor, Emma
Pike, made excellent and encouraging remarks;
Dialogue, Eliza Jensen and company; Recita-
tion, Leonard Pitkin; Recitation, Sylvia Yates.
Elder J. Dowdle made some very interesting
and appropriate remarks; song. Hannah
Dowdle, Recitation, Edna Hulse; the officers
were re-elected; Song, Edith V. Gamble. Sister
M. A. Dowdle occupied a short time in ad-
dressing the children upon politeness and the
use of good language; also praised them for
rendering the programme so well. Questions
and Answers on Good Manners were asked by
the Farmer's Ward; Song, Mary Humphrey;
Dialogue, by a company of little girls; Song,
Mary Whitney.
	Sister E. L. Crowther, of Logan Ward, said
this was the first time she had met with the
children of Millville. "We should be orderly,
and obedient to our parents and President,
and the Lord will bless us, for He loves little
children." Spoke upon the exercise of faith
in God.
	A Recitation, by Hattie Cartwell; Recitation,
Allie Yates. Stake President, Jane E. Molen,
spoke upon order; said we should not let the
children run in and out, but be orderly; we
should be kind to each other, and teach the
children to have faith in God. Recitation,
Sammy P. Dowdle.
	Prest. Geo. O. Pitkin said that the brightest
young men that took part in the Young Men's
Conference, belonged to the Primary a few
years ago, and expressed himself greatly
pleased with the exercises.
	Prest. Sarah Gamble felt like the Lord had
been with us; there would be a children's
dancing party in the afternoon. Benediction
by Bishop Molen.
				EVA GAMBLE, Secretary.

