[WomansExponent | Vol17 | 1888 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: SHADOWS AND WHISPERINGS. | Author: Unknown]

SHADOWS AND WHISPERINGS.

A faint, soft shadow flits across my mind,
	And thrills me with a gentle tenderness;
Wak'ning a memory only half-defined,
	A trace, perchance, of vanished happiness;
I try to call it up, but cannot tell, 
And yet 'tis something, I have known full well.

My thoughts go back to places where I've strolled,
	And gaze into the faces known in youth, 
And wander round the scenes so dear of old,
	To seek this vision out, and find its truth;
Alas, I search in vain, each much loved spot, 
It still eludes me, still I find it not. 

It often cheers me in my saddest hours,
	And if in doubt my feelings wildly stray, 
I feel most strongly then, its charmed powers, 
	Just like an angel presence round my way; 
Gently it comes, and whispers "peace be still,"
O, doubting heart, abide "the Father's will."

Oh, bliss of heaven on earth, we may not know, 
	For dusky fall the shadows of to-morrow;
Whate'er the talisman, for sin or woe, 
	Life's cup is tarnished with a silent sorrow, 
But we shall know when this poor life is past, 
The secret of the shadows that are cast. 

I sometimes think I must have lived before, 
	In a much brighter, fairer world than this;
That I have stepped from that enchanted shore,
	As though I woke from out a dream of bliss, 
Where soft hand lingered in a fond caress
Upon my head, to soothe me and to bless, 

As if a shadowing of recompense 
	Had followed me from our that home afar, 
For in my heart remains a partial sense
	Of a bright realm with golden "gates ajar,"
And through the portals of the glorious way
Perhaps there streams to earth a heavenly ray

'Tis strange these dim, mysterious shadowings, 
	Should seem to mock us, with half-confidence;
Puzzling us with their distant whisperings, 
	The music of an unknown utterance, 
That yearning, human hearts must ever feel, 
Longong for knowledge, that will all reveal. 
			E. B. Wells				E.B.W.
October 17, 1879.


[Column 1]
