[Vol7 | April 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL Wintered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager...... JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager ----.- AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishops Building, Salt Lalk City, Utah Vol. VII APRIL. 1920 No. 4 The Vision as the Answer to the Eternal Question Which of all the sects are right? Which of all the paths, trodden by the feet of men, lead to eternal glory? These are the eternal questions asked, at some period of life, by every soul. When the youthful prophet went into the grove, on that lovely spring day of 1820, his mind was fixed only upon learning which was right of all the paths trodden along the heights to heaven. This question concerns every woman, sometime in her life, and it shakes the soul of youth and maiden with fear and doubt, before they secure the answer. How may they know, in what way they may receive an answer? Not all may receive such a manifestation as was given the Prophet Joseph Smith, for his question was the question of the whole race, and his answer was the answer to the whole earth;  yet each one of us long to have the question answered as perfectly and as satisfyingly as was his own. Just what answer have you received? You? and You? and You? Have you ever thought about it, or have you simply taken for granted the truth of that answer? Are you able to answer your son or your daughter, or the stranger within your gates? "A tree is known by its fruit," so says the Master, and EDITORIAL SS3 the fruits of the answer which was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith are glorious beyond description. You have the evidence before you every hour, but even that will not quite satisfy you nor me. How, then, did your answer come and how did mine? Which is the way, how shall I reach it, if I have found that way? Spirit answers spirit. If you ask of the man who has six truths mixed up with six errors, he will answer you according to his light. If you ask the man who has one truth with nine errors, he will answer you according to his light. If you ask of the spiritualists who are abroad in the earth seeking light through any channel, except through the power of the living God. in the name of Jesus Christ, you may be answered as the spirits are answering foolish seekers today;  but if you ask of God "Who giveth liberally and upbraided not" you will get the answer which the Prophet Joseph received, and you will know as I know, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith had that marvelous Vision in the grove, wherein he saw with quickened eyes the Father, who pointed to his Son and said, "This is mv beloved Son, hear him." SHADOWS. Mrs. Parley Nelson. There's And in sadness in the of robin's the murmur the bee