[Vol7 | April 1920 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Household Hints]

HOUSEHOLD HINTS. Jeanette A. Hyde. During the war, which we are glad to speak of as in the past, many wonderful discoveries were made in household appliances and materials used in connection with home management. Following are new uses to which glue may be applied in order to prolong the life of household articles: To Put New Life in An Old Broom. A teaspoonful of glue mixed in a basin of hot water poured over a broom and then allowed to thoroughly dry will greatly stiffen, and prolong its usefulness and life. When Shoes Become Barked and Scarred. Very often a small piece of the leather is lifted or loosened. Don't cut it of if and try to cover the place with blacking. Flatten the piece in place with a little glue and allow to dry. Then apply blacking and the surface will be as good as new. For Tears or Rents in Silk. Another piece of silk or fabric of the same color placed under the tear, with a thin coating of glue, will bring the edges more firmly together than can be done with a needle. Allow to dry thoroughly and rent will be almost invisible. A Splendid Way to Keep Rubbers from Shopping. Rubber overshoes often become so loose that they slip off at the heels, especially in the winter and spring when the ground is muddy or slushy. This annoying trouble can be entirely eliminated by gluing a felt band around the inside top of the rubber. To Protect Furs and Woolens from Moths. It is commonly known that moths very much dislike the odor of ink in old newspapers. Several thicknesses of old newspapers firmly glued together may be made into the form of a bag, and the garment placed inside. After the ends and all joints are firmly sealed with glue, the bag is absolutely moth and dust proof, and your protection from moths has cost practically nothing. THE SPRING QUARTER AT THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Opens March 8 This presents an excellent opportunity to begin or continue your College career. Collegiate and Vocational courses open in every department in the Institution. For detailed information address the President's Office, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. 1 "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" 1 Ice Cream I Special attention given to parcel post candy orders  I P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City The UTAH STATE I Gospel Doctrine NATIONAL Selections from Sermons and  § Writings of President Joseph F. BANK Smith.  The Melchizedek Priesthood  Quorums have adopted GOSPEL The officers are I DOCTRINE as a text for class £ always glad to meet customers I study for the next two years.  and discuss  it contains 700 pages, with a  business plans  photogravure Frontispiece and  with them. I autograph of President Smith.   Handsome bound In cloth, $1.50 OFFICERS postpaid. I Heber J. Grant, President I Get the 'Gulde" to go with It.  Charles W. Nibey, Vice President  Price 15c. William R. Wallace, Vice President DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE  Henry T. McEwan, V. Pres. and Church. IVIAIN STREET  Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier Mr. Samuel H. Keddington, Assistant Sash. During this month, 1200 more housewives in the Intermountain West will be freed from Monday drudgery through the purchase of AUTOMATIC Electric Washers. The AUTOMATIC is sturdy, economically-priced and easy to operate. Washes a tubful of clothes in 7 minutes, without injury. In fact, clothes washed the AUTOMATIC way last 4 or 5 times as long as those washed on the oldfashioned washboard. Make sure of your AUTOMATIC today, at these terms. For Sale by ail Branches of the Utah Power & Light Company Salt Lake, Ogden, Eliireka, Park City, Laytoll, Binliain, Coalville, Midvale, JLogan, Garland, Provo, American Fork, Lehi, Pleasant Grove, Utah;  Idaho Falls, Preston, MontpcUer, Rexburg ; , Rigby, St. Anthony, Ashton, Caninion, Idaho.