THE OPINION OF THE COURT.

[Deputy Registrars must place the names
of women on the State Registration List.]
	OGDEN, Aug. 10.—When the court con-
vened this afternoon the District court room
was crowded with attorneys and prominent
citizens eager to hear the decision of Judge
H. W. Smith on the test case brought to
determine the right of women to vote for or
against the proposed Constitution and for
the election of State officers at the same
time. The decision was the principal topic
of discussion. The general guess seemed
to be that the court would decide that wo-
men could vote for the first State officers,
but not on the Constitution.
	In beginning his decision Judge Smith
stated the case succinctly, and that the facts
alleged in the affidavit for the writ of man-
date were admitted. Hence the only
question to be determined was the legal
propostion, whether women were entitled
at the coming election to vote for or against
the Constitution and for State officers then
to be elected, and whether under the law,
women are qualified voters entitled to use
the electoral privilege upon the questions.
It cannot be said that any partisan questions
enter into this discussion or decision, be-
cause no one has any knowledge of how the
decision of the question will affect the re-
sult of the coming election. It is a ques-
tion of construction only and the rules of
construction of legislative enactments are to
be closely followed so as to arrive at the full
and intended meaning of what legislation
and congressional enactments have been
made upon this point. No woman in the
Territory, I apprehend, wishes to vote un-
less she has the undoubted and explicit
right to do so, and this action is for the pur-
pose of determining her rights. Hence it
is of the greatest importance to determine
this question correctly in accordance with the

[Column 2]
full meaning intended by the Enabling Act,
and the acts of that convention that framed
the law which will be the law by which the
people of the Territory will be governed,
in the opinion of the court.
	The whole matter hinges principally
upon sections 24 and 19 of the Enabling
Act and upon the second section of the
declaration of rights. The first and second
sections of articles 4 of the Constitution,
and the 11th, 12th and 14th sections of the
schedule embraced in the Constitution.
	The court then quotes these sections and
says that the contention of the plaintiff is
that it was the duty of the Constitutional
Convention to designate who shall be the
electors generally and that they must per-
mit that class of persons named in the
second section of the Enabling Act to vote
upon the Constitution, and further that the
Constitutional Convention performed that
duty and created the electorate of the pro-
posed state, and that she falls within the
class of persons upon whom the franchise
has been conferred. In brief, that she and
all others upon whom the proposed Consti-
tution confers the franchise as well all those
persons upon whom it is conferred by the
act of Congress, are entitled to vote upon
its adoption or rejection.
	The claim of the defendent is that Con-
gress by the Enabling Act has created the
electorate that is to pass upon the adoption
or rejection of the Constitution, and that
the Constitutional Convention has provided
that the same electorate shall select the first
state officers vested in any individual or set
of individuals, but the right of voting is
purely conventional and is given or with-
held at the will of the legislative power.
It may be enlarged or restricted, granted or
withheld, and no one may complain, if done
in a uniform manner. Congress has never
attempted to say what person or persons
shall constitute the electorate of any state
but the opposite is affirmed by that consti-
tutional amendment which declares that the
powers not delegated to us by the Con-
stitution, nor prohibited by it, are reserved
to the states respectively, or to the people.
There is no attempt in the Constitution to
limit the power of any community or ex-
tend the franchise to any class of persons
that they may see fit to favor with it. In
this light it is doubtful if Congress ever in-
tended by the Enabling Act to provide an
electorate for selecting the first officers of
the State, and I do not think it would be
made within the power ot Congress.
	In the opinion of the court section 4 of
the Enabling Act ratified by the Constitu-
tional Convention and made a part of the
Constitution, provided a class of voters to
vote on the Constitution and this class are
the ones entitled to this vote. The voters
of the proposed State “the people” are
those upon whom the political responsibili-
ities and the duties are devolved and under
this, new Constitution men and women
have these responsibilities and duties; hence
the Constitution should be voted for or
against by these persons upon whom that
instrument places the duties and responsi-
bilities of electors.
	If I am right as to the test by which we
are to determine who are the qualified
voters of the proposed State of Utah, then
it seems clear to me that the plaintiff is en-
titled to vote both upon the adoption or re-
jection of the Constitution,and certainly for
the election of State officers of the pro
posed State of Utah.

[Column 3]
	This conclusion necessitates the issuance
of a peremptory writ of mandate and the
order will be that a peremptory writ issue
requiring the defendant to register the plain-
tiff as an elector of the second election pre-
cinct of Ogden city.”


