LECTURE ON SUFFRAGE 

[Given before the Reapers Club, S. L. C.]
	Ex-Governor Long has said the argu-
ments against Woman’s Suffrage are like a
bag of feathers, you may punch it all day
but it remains a bag of feathers still, there
is no solidity in it and you can make no im-
pression upon it. And it would seem too
as though this question of suffrage would
become worn and threadbare, that the argu-
ments for and against were well nigh ex-
hausted, but to the women who are eagerly
watching and waiting for the glorious burst
of day it is like a well of living water.
True, to those women who have all the
rights and privileges they want it doubtless
does become very wearisome, to them I
would say cast your eyes abroad, look long
and steadfastly until they shall rest with
pitying glance upon some poor creatures
who are not so fortunate.
	It is all very well to say, let them work
for suffrage who want it, there are women
bound with chains of degradation who
know it not, there are others while sensing
it most keenly are powerless, or think they
are, to raise one finger for their own de-
liverance. And must these suffer while
we enjoy all the rights we want? must these
eat crusts while we feed on the luxuries of
life? No, no! never let it be said that wo-
men are regardless of the rights of their
sisters, rather let us labor for them and
with them, let us educate them until they
shall assert their independence and shake
the shackles from their wrists, thus may we
lift them to a higher plane and help to lay
the foundation for the ushering in of that
golden time upon which the best thought of
the ages has been centred. Oh women!
what a responsibility rests upon your shoul-
ders in the bringing about of that glorious
time. Mothers, do you not know that the
very foundation of government is
in the family circle? do you not see
that what the homes are, so the state must
be?
	So while I would urge women to take
part in every good thing, as far as circum-
stances will permit, I would say guard well
your homes for there is the nation in
embryo. Ever since Eve partook of the
forbidden fruit, which certainly showed her
pluck, women have been blamed for all the
ills that flesh is heir to; there has been a
woman at the bottom of everything that

[Column 2]
savored of ill repute, but in the future there
will be a woman at the bottom of every-
thing good, not excluding good govern-
ments. Men have not been slow to lay
their burdens upon us, but they have been
so afraid we should find it out, we have
heard a great deal about the father having
to battle with the world for a livelihood for
the family. And here let me say there
would be no struggle for a living if the
world were properly managed, but the man
who could succeed in being what is termed
a good provider, has ever been considered
par excellence. But we have not heard so
much about mothers hundreds and thou-
sands of them who are not only the pro-
viders for themselves and their husbands
but they bear and rear families at the same
time. And on these mothers rests the re-
sponsibility of the conduct of these children
also, even men will tell you that women
can bind the family together far better than
they; it is a common expression that it is
better for the father to leave the family,
even if there is no visible means of support
than the mother. If this can be truthfully
said of women after she has been bound
with the chains of servitude for thousands
of years to what heights may she not attain
when she shall grasp greater opportunities,
cultivate the intelligence which God has
given her  and developed herself to the
full perfection of womanhood. Now let
us for a moment imagine a mother, and
there are a multitude of them who have
brought to the state several worthy sons the
greatest service she could possibly bestow,
unless perhaps it was an equal number of
good daughters, she has taught them the
laws of life, filled them with the spirit of
patriotism and the love of God. Just think
of the conditions that make it possible for
those sons to say, “Mother, I am twenty-
one years old, a full-fledged citizen. I can
vote now and have a voice in the govern-
ment of the nation. Who knows! Some
day I may be a Senator, aye, even President
of the United States.” But women don’t
know anything about government, they
have had no experience in such matters.
Oh, consistency, thou art a jewel! What
mothers, do not know enough to vote after
spending thirty or more years in the very
best self-discipline that can be devised in
the government of the family.    Again we
have been taught from the good old book
that wives are in subjection to their hus-
bands, that depends altogether on what kind
of husbands,   righteous men truly are the
head of the wife just precisely as Christ is
the head of the Church, and Christ is the
head of the Church to lift all men up to
Him where if they will come he will give
them a seat on the right hand of the Father.
Does that look like subjection?
	Then there are many women that have no
husbands and must necessarily be their own
head.   This question of suffrage for women
may properly be termed a movement of re-
form, and they must bring a different ele-
ment into government from the one in con-
trol now, or I fear their efforts will be of
little avail. Men have become so used to
trickery in politics that it seems to be ah-


solutely necessary; there are tricks in all
trades, no one thinks anything about it. To
be honest and wear a plain bold front has
gone entirely out of fashion, none but very
peculiar people think of such a thing.
	Prayer is not needed in politics, God has
nothing to do with it, He no longer holds
the destiny of nations in the hollow of His
hand. Indeed, I fear that were it possible
for Washington, the immortal father
of our country, to be discovered in
this day and age of the world, fervently
praying for divine aid in the guerdon of the
American armies he would be the subject of
rldicule. But instead of prayers we must
bow and scrape and smile and flatter and
sometimes even buy ourselves into public
favor. Shame upon such actions. Well
did the Savior understand such people when
he said, “ye are a generation of vipers, for
ye are like unto whited sepulchers which in-
deed appear beautiful without, but are
within full of dead men’s bones and all
uncleanness.” So. I say women to the
rescue; women to the front; join with good
men, and let me tell you there is no man so
good and great but what is all the stronger
with a brave, true woman by his side,
neither are brave men numerous enough to
fight the battle alone. Join with noble
men and clear this broad earth from cellar
to garret, let the work roll on, and the
word go forth that women will neither be
bribed nor persuaded from the path of duty
but once knowing it, will do it or die. Let
her conscience go into politics as it has in
her home so shall she carry the white ban-
ner of purity and liberty, casting her ballot
at all times for the best good of all mankind
until there shall be “a new heaven and a
new earth and all things old shall have
passed away.” R. M. F.


