	  LOGAN UTAH, July 23, 1895.
    [To the Commissioner of Education
Washington D. C.]

	SIR: In accordance with the require- 
ments of an act of Congress of August, 30
1890, I submit herewith a report of the
condition and progress of The Agricultural
College of Utah during the past school
year.
	The year has been a fairly successful one
in College work and in the patronage and
public encouragement the Institution has
received.
	The attendance of students for the year
reached a total of 360, as compared with a
total of 264 for the preceding year. The
average age of all students during the year
was 19.4 years, as compared with an aver-
age age of 18.8 the previous year. Two
pupils were graduated with degrees: one in
Agriculture, and one in Civil Engineering.
Last year there were four. This falling off
may have been due to the strengthening of
the required course of study over that of
the year previous. For the ensuing year
the courses have been still further developed
and strengthened. The most important
change in the curriculum is that the first
two years of all the four-year course for
male students are now identical, as shown
in the catalogue on page 11. The first two
years for lady students are the same as those
years for young men, except in shopwork
and in a portion of the mathematics, which
are replaced, in the ladies’ course, by cor-
responding work more suitable for women.
	The first two years comprise mainly those
general culture studies with which
every educated person is expected to be
familiar; while the last two years of each
course are composed largely of technical
study in the special lines of the course
chosen, but without wholly excluding the
so-called culture studies even in these years.
This departure is based upon the belief that
the educated man or woman as such,is bet-
ter fitted for the duties of life than is the
narrowly trained specialist, who lacks cul-
ture of the nature sought to be provided by
the general subjects. The other changes
consist mainly in a rearrangement, and, we
think, a more accurate grouping of major
and a more rigid subordination of minor
subjects, than heretofore. The regular
Faculty numbers twenty-two, with two ad-
ditional teachers in special subjects.
	The question of uniting the Agricultural
College with the University of Utah was
considered at length by the recent Terri-
torial Constitutional Convention, with the
final result of embodying in the proposed
Constitution a clause keeping these insti-
tutions separate as at present.
	I have no hesitation in saying that the
College is growing in the estimation of the
people generally, and that there is good
reason to expect a still more successful year
the coming season.
	Respectfully submitted,
	J. H. PAUL President


