CORFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 13, AND
14, 1895.

	THE Conference was called to order by
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, president of the
National Woman’s Suffrage Association of
Utah. Prayer was offered by Rev. Anna
Shaw.
	Mrs. Wells introduced the Governor of
Utah, Hon. Caleb W. West, who wel-
comed the guests.
ADDRESS By GOVERNOR WEST.
Ladies And Gentlemen:
	I am informed that this is an assemblage
under the auspices of the National Ameri-
can Woman’s Suffrage Association. It is
one of the four Conferences that has been
provided for to be held in the United States
the present year in the interest of Woman’s
Suffrage. I am very glad to know that our
City and our Territory has been selected for
the holding of this Conference. I think
that it was wisely chosen because in the
Convention that assembled here during the
past month to form the organic law which
will make Utah one of the States of the
Union, moved by the spirit of the people
behind them they wisely, justly and
judiciously provided that there should be
no discrimination of sex in this new State.
Therefore it is meet and proper that those
who agreed with our people upon this sub-
ject should meet here in Council and in Con-
ference to devise ways and means to fur-
ther the cause that is so dear to the hearts
of many noble and self-sacrificing women.
	Now upon this occasion I don’t deem it
necessary or proper that I should attempt
to discuss the question—I have not as I un-
derstand it been invited here for that pur-
pose. The distinguished honor which was
done me in asking me to come here this
morning is to present to this audience a
woman who is known not only over our
whole land but over the civilized world,
one who has devoted her noble self-sacrific-
ing life to the cause of her sex, and in so
doing of course has devoted it in the high-
est sense to humanity. Now a word of in-
troduction here is entirely unnecessary I am
sure: in fact Susan B. Anthony was known
to the people of Utah long before it ever
knew your humble servant and speaker.
Twenty-five years ago as I understand Miss
Anthony paid a visit to this Territory. I
believe upon that occasion she was pre-
sented to its people by the distinguished
citizen who was then Mayor, who is now
dead, Mayor Daniel H. Wells. Now then
I trust and believe that Miss Anthony has
come with very pleasant recollections of
her visit; that she has returned to us now
is a matter of congratulation and pleasure,
and I trust that she upon this occasion will
find her visit both pleasant and profitable.
I can assure those ladies who have come
to visit us, that there is but little doubt that
the Constitution which has been made in
this hall and which will be submitted to
the people, our people at the November
election, will be carried by an overwhelm-
ing majority as it ought to be. (applause.)

[Column 2]
	Now permit me to introduce to you Miss
Susan B. Anthony. (applause)
REMARKS BY MISS ANTHONY.
	My good Friends:—This is the second
time on which I have been honored by the
Governor of a state to open our meeting,
to make the introductory speech. The
other night in Cheyenne Gov. Richards
made the opening address and presented
the speakers. Now to-day Governor West
of this Territory has made the opening ad-
dress of this Conference and I want you
my dear women to ask how it happened
that it should be those two Inter-mountain
States in which women hold the right of
suffrage, in which women are absolutely
clothed with that power in one state, and
have borne to the ballot box the vote not
only at City and State elections but at the
last general Presidential election absolutely
went to the ballot box and voted for the
President—how it happened that woman’s
enfranchisement is fully recognized—that
this Territory in its organic law to be pre-
sented to Congress has engrafted in it this
primal idea of perfect equality of rights to
women, civil and polttical, how it happened
that the highest officials of these two moun-
tain States should come to the front and in-
troduce at the meeting, or present the speak-
ers at a meeting of this sort. I don’t be-
lieve you could have gotten the Governor
of the State of New York or Pennsylvania
or the Governors of any of the older states;
I don’t believe you could have impressed it
upon the minds of any one of those Gover-
nors that it would be an honor to him as
well as an honor to the audience or people
to come forward and occupy this position.
It is because the women of this Territory
when it becomes a State are to be the
equals of the men, that it is best for the
man holding the highest position in the
State to take this position. I shall never
forget an incident which occurred in Wash-
ington last year after a majority of the men
of the State of Colorado had gone to the
ballot box and voted to place the ballot in
the hands of the women of the Centennial
State, when invited to come to our meeting
every representative of Wyoming and every
representative of the new State of Colorado
was present to bear his testimony to the
g[-]eat principle of equality of rights, and I
presented those men to the large audience
assembled in the City of Washington and I
made the remark that while representatives
and others of the entire state of New York
had been going to Washington for the last
quarter of a century making appeals and ad-
dresses before Congressional Committees as
well as other large audiences we never yet
had such a delegation of members of Con-
gress and the Senators in the United States
senate come to the hotel to pay their re-
spects to the New York delegate, to our
Convention—nor had I ever known of the
representatives of the whole delegation,
Congressional delegation from any other
State in the Union to have come to the con-
vention to make their assertion that they
believed in equality of rights for women, it
is not until women actually hold the power
of the ballot in their hands that the mass of
government officials in each of the States
will ever think of it, will even know that
women are a part of the people. So I con-
gratulate all of you upon this fact that in
this great Conference that is assembled here
that three states out of the forty-five, [for
I consider your State virtually in the Union]
three states ont of the forty-five have

[Column 3]
recognized this fundamental principle of the
right of women to an equal voice in the
government with men. Is it not remark-
able that for over a hundred years since our
Revolutionary Fathers made the declara-
tion that all men are created equal, that
governments derive their just power from
the consent of the governed, that taxation
without representation is tyranny, is it not
remarkable that it has taken one hundred
years to convince the men that women
were a part of all men who are created
equal and that women are a part of the
governed whose consent should be given or
with-held from the government, that wo-
men as tax payers have a right to represen-
tation, that to tax women without confer-
ring the right of representation was equally
tyrannous to women as to men, is it not re-
markable that it has taken one hundred
years and more to convince and educate the
men of this nation that women are a part
of the men, a part of the people, a part of
those whose consent should be given or
witheld in every government organization
of the City, State and nation. But now
this point has been obtained, this justice
has been accorded in three of the States
wholly, and in one of the states partially,
they have municipal suffrage in the state of
Kansas and in twenty-three of the states
they enjoy the privilege of voting on
school matters and in five more the question
of equal suffrage is pending. This ques-
tion has come to be discussed and agitated
in every possible, public assembly.
	You can scarcely enter an educational con-
vention or a convention for the good of the
different religious denominations, a scientific
convention, a political convention of any
sort that the question of granting equal
rights to women is not uppermost. Dur-
ing the last two years there is scarcely a
legislature that has not had this question
of the extension of suffrage to women un-
discussion and has had a bill presented and
in many cases voted upon it. In most of
the cases where the bill passed one house
it failed to pass in the other. In several of
the states a bill for the submission of the
question has been passed by both houses so
that in five of the states in the Union to-
day the question of woman’s enfranchise-
ment is now pending. The legislatures of
Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, California and
New York have during the past year passed
this resolution so that the whole question,
or the question of giving the right of suf-
frage to women is being seriously consider-
ed. So now you may say it is only a ques-
tion of time as some of our friends have
been wont to answer us in the days gone by
and now the question has become one of a
very short time when every possible gather-
ing of men and women under the stars and
stripes and will discuss the question.
	When such a splendid majority in your
Constitutional Convention gave their voice
in favor of this perfect equal recognition
for the women of this country. I stand
here to congratulate the men of the Ter-
ritory of Utah for if the rank and file, if the
vast mass of the men who go to the ballot
box in the Territory of Utah had been op-
posed to the enfranchisement of women,
then the representatives in this convention
held during the last month would never
have felt justified in having incorporated
that splendid suffrage clause in the Con-
stitution, it is because the rank and file of
the men and women of this Territory have
been educated into the idea of perfect


