RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE afternoon session of the General
Conference of the Relief Society, April 4th,
1895 was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, commencing at 2 p. m.
	On the stand were Sisters Young, Rich-
ards, Smith, Horne, Snow, John, Hinckley,
Barber, Taylor, and Wells. Singing, "O,
my Father, thou thatdwellest,” Mrs. Mary
John reported Utah Stake in good condition,
twenty-five branches, “We sent a Delegate
from Utah County to the W. S. A. Con-
vention at Atlanta and to the National
Council in Washington. We have wheat
stored against a time of need in our stake,
about six-hundred bushels, and shall go on
gathering more. The Relief Society is a
great school for us all I am also interested
in the franchise and believe it will be a
benefit and blessing to us.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor spoke of the good ac-

[Column 2]
complished by the Relief Society, and
of paying honor to whom honor is due—
the works of the Relief Society are charity
and love and blessing—“Sisters always
pray for those who are over you, pray for
Sister Zina she needs your aid and assist-
ance and faith and prayers, teach your
children these things, and do not neglect
them, keep in their remembrance the lives
and characters of our great and good
men and women.” Mentioned Sister
Presendia Kimball, Sister Heywood, Sister
Howard and others.
	Sister Smith spoke about our sisters who
had labored in the Relief Society longer
ago than those who were mentioned by
Sister Taylor, because perhaps she was
older, Spoke of Sister Whitney, Sister Em-
ma Smith, Mary Ann Young, Vilate
Kimball and others, and how faithful they
had been in the midst of great trials, she
felt to speak of these sisters because she
had known them personally.
	President Young talked of our having
a Conference in June and of spending more
time in meetings, and not be carried away
with the vanities of the world. She had
seen men who had talked with the Lord,
and had seen them fall away, and make
mistakes, we must be humble, and full of
faith and charity, &c. We want to have
time in our Conference to do our business
and bear our testimonies, we want to bless
you and help you, and the same good spirit
is with the sisters elsewhere that is in the
temple; we must bear with each other and
not be lifted up because of our knowledge;
wisdom is what is needed to walk in the
ways of the Lord.
	Sister Hinckley, of Milliard Stake, made
a few remarks in reference to the stake in
which she lived. A prayer was offered by
Sister Young in reference to the Suffrage
movement in Convention at the present
time—(this afternoon) the prayer was fol-
lowed by those present all joining. Sister
Martha Tonks, Counselor Morgan Stake
Relief Society made an excellent report of
the stake and spoke well in reference to the
Society and prayed that we might prosper
in the land.
	Sister Ruth Hatch represented the Snow-
flake Stake, one circumstance particularly
of the one doctor in the stake having to
carry the mail instead of doctoring the
people, in order to earn his living; a factory
was in progress of building, sisters were
appointed on the board to help; the word
of wisdom was kept, even aged sisters
keeping it strictly. She felt diffident in
reporting the affairs of the stake and yet
willing to do her part; wherever there is
sickness or sorrow the sisters are there.
Counselor Jane S. Richards thought there
were many things to think of and to talk
about—Sister Young talked of a Confer-
ence in June—it would be between the
other two conferences neither too hot nor
too cold nor two wet nor too dry, and about
right and we could have testimonies and
experiences, we’ve heard some today from
the stand and there were as many in front
who have something to say and could edify
us, if we should happen to find it wouldn’t
be such a terrible thing, nothing ventured
even if we should fail—Young Ladies who
a while ago were young ladies, you are
welcome to stay in the Y. L. but I want
you to come along and help the aged people,
my daughter is fourty, she’s been fifteen
years in the Relief Society; only the other
day, I found a lot of Emily’s reports as a


[Column 1]
teacher; but we do ask them, the younger
women, to belong to the Relief Society we
do ask and pray and work for the Lord to
favor Zion, and for us to be favored
of the Lord—husbands come to look after
the testimony of their wives—spoke of an
orphan child who had been very diligent,
her father came and asked if she might be the
secretary. I got a letter from her that she
had resigned and was moving away—Sister
Eliza had been so kind to this little secre-
tary whose father used to come and tend
the children while she t[-]ok the minutes,
and it was acting a father’s and mother’s
part.
	Sister Richards moved and it was second-
ed that we have a Conference in June, the
president put the motion and the sisters
voted standing upon their feet, the vote was
unanimous.
	A notice was read, by the Secretary, from
Sister Sorenson, and Sister Zina made some
remarks upon it and of Sister Sorenson.
	Sang, “We thank thee O, God for a
Prophet, ”&c. Prayer by M. W. Snow.
June 4, 1895.
	EVENING SESSION.—Prayer by Bishop
Madsen. Sang, “For the strength of the
hills we bless thee.” Sister Robertson, of
Orangeville, Emery Co. gave a good re-
port of the Relief Society in that Stake, all
felt well and were doing a good work &c.
	Hannah A. Crosby, of Panguitch, gave
a good report of that stake, though she was
very timid, said it was hard for the sisters
to go to some places and could not unless
accompanied by brethren, as it would not
be safe, the long distance across unsettled
lands and camping out—at night.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards prefered to hear
from the sisters in the congregation; the
signs of the times are important and excit-
ing and she did not wish to be misunder-
stood, some of us are desirous and anxious
some more than others, we who have
brought up these young men in the Con-
vention why are we not good enough to
sit there by them; some men who have been
called to fill high places, and had the votes
of the people, have raised opposition to wo-
men voting. In the world ever since
Joseph organized the Relief Society the wo-
men of the whole world are trying to have
something in the shape of rights, we should
have these privileges and stand by the side
of men and help them. It seems so
pleasant to go from house to house and at-
tend to the sick and needy and it is good to
live for the Gospel—the Lord will help us
to do good, we feel refreshed and blest in
doing kind acts for others.
	President Joseph F. Smith said:—I have
felt impressed all day with a desire that I or
some one or more of the brethren might be
present with you during this conference,
that you might, at least, have the encourage-
ment that their presence might give, to
help you in your important labors. The
reason why President Woodruff is not
more often in the meetings of the Society,
is because, not only of his extreme age,
now being over 88—but because he is over-
whelmed with a multitude of other duties,
that make it physically impossible for him,
to do more than he is constantly doing.
The fact is he often does more than he
shogld.
	President Cannon has been a great deal
away from home of late, on important
business. He returned from the east this
morning, and the Presidency and twelve
have been occupied all day, in council, in
the consideration of important and pressing

[Column 2]
matters. I have thought of your confer-
ence many times during the day, and felt a
desire to come here, as requested by Aunt
Zina and others, to be present, and to lis-
ten to you if nothing more; therefore after
being released from my labors for the day,
I determined I would attend this meeting.
We have many temporal duties to perform,
which are in themselves essential, but we
are not all temporal, neither are we all
spiritual, and it is very difficult to deter-
mine just where the temporal ends and the
spiritual begins, since we are both tempor-
al and spiritual, and both are blended into
one. It is wise not to run to either extreme.
Joseph the Prophet organized the Relief
Society and it has been a help to the church
in many ways. The good influence of the
societies is greatly needed in social life, and
also in the homes of the Saints, over your
sons and daughters, as well as for the bene-
fit of the poor and needy. Your influence
should be potent for good. Everything
that tends to good is of God, and is a help
to the authorities of the church, local and
general for the grand object of their labors
is to do good in the world, and diminish
evil and wrong as much as possible until
righteousness shall reign from the “rivers
to the ends of the earth.”
	Referring to the subject of woman’s
rights he said in substance: he thought
many women were extremely careless and
indifferent to their rights. This was caused
to some extent by ignorance, and thought-
lessness, and to some extent by tradition.
We inherit much from the fathers, and
some of the relics of the dark ages, not to
say of barbarism are still cherished by some
people to their hurt. Accustomed to things
as they were and are, they rest content and
seek no changes, however much for the bet-
ter a change might be. But he could get
along with this class better than with such
as would not only make no exertion them-
selves to progress, but would and did exert
themselves to prevent the progression of
others. He regarded such as enemies to
society. Not intentionally perhaps, but
actually so whatever might be the cause of
their conduct.
	For his part, he wanted women to enjoy
every blessing, privilege, right or liberty
which he himself enjoyed in the legitimate
pursuit of happiness in this world or in the
world to come. The only differences or
distinctions that should be regarded or
recognized are those of nature or of sex.
We should guard with sacredness the des-
tinction which God himself has created,
they are inevitable, and we could not if we
would deface or change them, but God nev-
er did design that a woman should receive
less for the product of her labor, whether
of hand or brain, skilled or meniel than a
man should receive for the same labor no
better executed than hers. Nor did he de-
sign that women should be required to bear
equal burdens with men without sharing
equally the benefit thereof.
	He would not attempt to make a com-
parison of the difference between mans and
woman’s physical and mental capabilities
for they were questions foreign to the one
now affecting the public mind. The ques-
tion is, shall women be as free as men or
not, shall the male citizen have a voice in
civil government because he is a male,
and a female citizen be denied the same
privilege simply because she is a female?
Shall a man indignantly resent “taxation
without representation,” and a woman not
o likewise, or tamely submit to that which

[Column 3]
must be as great a wrong to her as it can be
to him, simply because she is a woman and
he a man? Man and woman are begotten
of the same father. are born of the same
mother, possess the same life, breathe the
same air, feel the some cold or heat, hunger
or thirst, pleasure or pain; eat the same
food, wear the same fabrics wrought only
in different forms and fashions; exist by the
same means, both bear the divine image
and possess the same divine nature. They
are born, live and die and live again for the
one great and glorious purpose. They are
indispensible to each other, each is the
complement of the other, both for this
world and the world to come, for time and
for all eternity. Then why shall one en-
joy civil rights and the other be denied
them? Why shall one be admitted to al
the avenues of mental and physical progress
and prosperity and the other be prohibited,
and prescribed within certain narrow limits,
to her material abridgment and detriment?
Do not women eat bread as well as men?
Shall men be favored as bread-winners, and
women be handicapped in their effort to win
bread? Shall a man be paid higher wages
than is paid to a woman for doing no bet-
ter than she does the very same work?
Shall the avenues for employment be mul-
tiplied to men and diminished to women
by the mere dictum or selfishness of men?
If man can perform labor for which wo-
man is physically disqualified, let him en-
joy the monopoly of it; let the same be
said of woman. By what process of reason-
ing can it be shown that a woman stand-
ing at the head of a family, with all the
responsibility resting upon her to provide
for them, should be deprived of the aven-
ues and ways or means that a man is like
circumstance may enjoy to provide for them?
Yet many of these unwholesome conditions
do exist, and that too vastly to the detri-
ment of women, not withstanding which
strange to say, women may be found who
seem to glory in their enthralled condition,
and who caress and fondle the very chains
and manacles which fetter and enslave
them! Let those who love this helpless de-
pendent condition and prefer to remain in
it and enjoy it; but for conscience and for
mercy’s sake let them not stand in the
way of those of their sisters who would
be, and of right ought to be free. Let
them who will not enter into the door of
equal rights and impartial suffrage step
aside, and leave the passage clear to those
who desire to enter. It is said if the wo-
men have equal rights they must bear equal
burdens with the men. They do this al-
ready except that their burdens are made
unequal in that they are deprived of the
enjoyment of equal rights. Yes but, says
the objector, they must sit on juries, they
must serve as policemen, sherriffs, mar-
shals, soldiers, &c. Well, let them do so
if they want to. and can get such office.
But what nonsense this is, it is all right
for them to be qualified for any and all
positions, and to possess the right or privi-
lege to fill them, but that they must as so
does not follow. There are many men in
every community who never sat on a jury,
never having been called to do so, nor to
be a soldier, or to do any duty, nor to be
sherriff, policemen, marshals, nor even
governors or judges, and yet they have pos-
sessed all the qualifications to fill any of these
positions. Therefore why shall the women
be compelled to do things because she has
the franchise that men are not compelled to
do! Many women are afraid of woman’s


suffrage because office loving, office seeking,
office monopolizing men have tried to
frighten them from seeking their right
thereby, possibly, lessening the chances for
those same office-loving men to get and
hold the offices of state.
	Let no woman be detered for a moment
from her whole duty, by such contemptible
twaddle.
	Brother Robinson, from Wayne Stake
was a little anxious to meet with some of
our brethren and sisters from his home; en-
joyed the remarks of all to-night—speaking
for them, the sisters are awake to the Relief
Society work, the principles of truth and
the youth of Zion and in the unity and in
the harmony; the world will follow your
examples.
	Sister Woodbury felt to endorse what
President Smith had said she felt that we
should have equal rights with men.
	Sister E. S. Richards spoke of the build-
ing which we ought to have and so on,
made other remarks we have had many
suggestions made here, we are a blest
people, we want to establish ourselves—I
beg your pardon for taking the time. 
Singing, Doxology, dismissed with prayer,
	E.B. Wells.


We Raise to Thee.” Sister Lucy W.
Kimball offered a very beautiful prayer.
Singing “Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day
of Salvation.” Minutes of the afternoon
session of the previous conference read and
approved. The 19th and 20th Wards were
reported. A letter from Sister Elmina S.
Taylor resigning her position as First
Counselor in the organization of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, was
read by the Secretary, also a letter of res -
ignation from the second Counselor Helen
Mar Whitney.
	President M. I. Horn, felt very sorry to
have to perform so unpleasant a task, for
all knew what good and noble women Sis-
ter Taylor and Sister Whitney were, but
Sister Taylor has long been overburdened
with her many other duties, and Sister
Whitney whom we love so dearly, has for
a long time been in such poor health that
the office has been a burden upon her. Yet
the duties of the society are constantly in-
creasing and I feel I must have help.
Therefore as it has been moved and
seconded these resignations be accepted I
submit it to you. The motion received a
pathetic response. And a vote of thanks
were tendered to the Sisters for their faith-
ful labors.
	President A. M. Cannon spoke of each of
the sisters in the highest terms of praise
and felt that none could have more ability
to hold this office, and that President Horne
would not be able to get any one to do as
much as she does herself. There are so
many who are competent, one person should
not be overburdened with offices. Presi-
dent Horne said she had made this a mat-
ter of prayer and had chosen Sister Annie
T. Hyde as First Counselor and Sister
Clara C. Cannon as her Second Counselor.
They were unanimously accepted; Sisters
Hyde and Cannon expressed a willingness
to accept the office and do all they could to
advance the work of the society. Presidents
C. W. Penrose and J. E. Taylor gave some
excellent and timely instruction as did also
President Z. D. H. Young and Sister Lucy
Kimball: Sisters Annie T. Hyde and Clara
C. Cannon were set apart as Counselors to
President M. I. Horne in the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion by the Presidency of
the Stake.
	The officers of the Central Board of the
Relief Society, and also the officers of this
Stake were presented by the Secretary and
heartily sustained by those present. T'he
Secretary also urged Secretaries to be
prompt in sending in their yearly repo
immediately after June 30th; and also 
take the Exponent, whereby they might
be kept in touch and familiar with what
women were doing and what they  would
be expected to do in the future.
	Conference closed by singing, Doxology
Prayer by Bishop Samuel Atwood.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, Secretary.
        				
