	ALICE THACHER POST, in The New
Earth, gives the following notes taken by
her during a recent visit to Colorado. It is
a good antidote for the unfavorable report
of a "sporting man," Bat Masterson, lately
published in the Boston Post:
	During a recent journey through Colo-
rado my husband and I naturally asked
questions in regard to the practical work-
ing of the suffrage recently granted to wo-
men of that State.
	To our first question, put to the National
Single Tax Committeemen for Colorado,
came promptly the answer:
	"It has dignified the suffrage."
	Mr. Bucklin went on to say that the wo-
men had taken their duties very seriously;
that they had attired themselves with care,
and had made it the important business of
that day.
	That they dressed themselves especially
for the occasion was corroborated elsewhere,
and it delighted me greatly. If women
thought of the suffrage as a masculine
function, in its exercise they would imitate
men, and go to the polls in their everyday
marketing gowns. But no, it is a feminine
function and it is to be exercised in feminine
fashion. And when a woman has a serious
decision to make or duty to perform, she
dresses herself with care. Therefore they
put on their good clothes when they go to
the polls.
	In most cases husbands and wives had
gone together to the polls.
	And how were the polls?
	Orderly and clean. The party in power
had not dared to have them otherwise, lest
they should lose some of the women's votes.
They were in better condition than the post
office. Loafers were kept away from them,
and no drunkenness was to be seen upon
the streets during the whole day. I had
always maintained that if the polls were
"not fit places for women" they could
easily be made so, but it had not occurred
to me that the mere fact of the woman's
having a vote would compel their cleaning.
	Had political differences caused any
family dissensions?
	The idea was scouted.
	Did the women vote as their husbands
voted?
	Probably they usually did, but not in all
cases. Two women told me with amuse-
ment that their husbands had never asked
how they voted, and only knew by inference.
Mr. Bucklin gave us a new idea. Suppose
the wife does vote as her husband votes and
without the exercise of individual opinion, 
that to a degree gives the man two votes.


But those two votes represent the family
idea in the State; and our committeeman
holds that the vote of a married man, the
head of a family, is likely to be worth more
to the community than the vote of the ir-
responsible bachelor, the incomplete man—so
that it is not a bad idea to have it sometimes
counted for more.
	Where the women’s votes did tell, as such
was very naturally and properly in matters
of communal housekeeping, as in a city
which had been overidden by a monopolistic
alkaline water company, where the women
voted overwhelmingly for a pure mountain-
water supply.


