WILLARD.

	ON Friday August, 2nd, we visited Wil-
lard Box Eider Co. in company with Sister
Zina D. H. Young. Arriving at Brother
Hubbard’s we found a warm welcome and
a delicious supper awaiting us. Brother and
Sister Hubbard are veterans in the Church
and highly respected by all who have the
pleasure of their acquaintance,   old-
fashioned New Englanders, descendants of
the early Puritans. In the evening there
was a meeting of the W. S. A. of Willard,
and goodly number assembled, about one
third of the audience were men, the Bishop
was present and other leading brethren.
Miss Maria Zundell President of the As-
sociation presided in a very pleasing man-
ner. The singing from the suffrage song
book was excellent and the speeches by
both men and women were certainly edu-
cational and fitting to the present circum-
stances and condition of Utah in view of
statehood.
Saturday morning at ten o’clock the Re-
lief Society convened in the meeting house,
Mrs. M. A. Hubbard presiding. Bishop
Zundell made the opening prayer. Mrs.
Olivia Widerborg the venerable President
of the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake,
with her Corresponding Secretary Mrs.
Emilia D. Madson had driven over from
Brigham City to attend the meetings, which
was a very great gratification to the sisters
who are very fond of their Stake President,
there was quite a large congregation for a
morning meeting. Remarks Were made
by Sister Hubbard and her Counselors, also
President Zina D. H. Young and Sisters
Widerborg, Madson, Wells and others. The
subjects treated upon were the spiritual
needs of the members of the Society in
growth and development, uniformity of

[Column 2]
methods in the work of organization, the
benefits to be derived from such work and
association, and the need of employment for
those who were in want of assistance. In
this connection the silk industry was talked
of and Sisters Young and Wells urged the
sisters to active exertion in promoting seri-
culture.
	Quite a number of the sisters dined at
Sister Mary Harding’s enjoying the company
very much, as well as the luxuries provided
for their temporal needs.
	The meeting at two in the afternoon was
called for the Young Ladies Association of
Willard and Mrs. Jane Chandler presided.
Mrs. Alphonso Snow the Y. L. M. I. A.
Stake President of Box Elder was also
present from Brigham City and there was a
fine audience of girls and young women,
and a few boys as the President of the
Primary Association of Willard, had called
the older members of the P. A. to meet
with the Y. L. and they occupied one side
of the house. It was an inspiring audience,
one realized the beauty and strengh of
health and vigor physical and spiritual.
The whole tenor of the remarks made were
in a spirit of exhortation and encourage-
ment to the young to continue in the paths
of virtue and uprightness, to seek for
wisdom knowledge and understanding, and
to become useful in their day and time up-
on the earth; to be helpful to those around
them and diligent in the performance of
every duty devolving upon them as mem-
bers of the Church of Latter-day Saints,
and strive to set examples worthy of imita-
tion, and attain to excellence in all good
works, that they might become bright and
shining lights to those about them having
an understanding of the truths revealed in
the last days. The speakers were Sisters
Chandler, Snow, Madsen, Widerborg,
Young, Wells. Dudley, Hubbard and
others; these sisters also talked to the
children of the Primary in a very pleasing
way calculated to interest them, and Sister
Zina D. H. Young asked them a number of
questions upon Church matters, which were
promptly answered by the little folks.
	Altogether the visit to Willard and the
meetings were very pleasant and satisfac-
tory to the visiting sisters. The singing
was excellent at all the meetings and was
one of the happy features of the gatherings,
as good music adds much to the tone of all
assemblies and is always uplifting in its
tendency.
	E. B. W.


[Column 1]

