WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	LADIES Meeting, held in the Fourteenth
Ward, July 27, 1895, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Meeting opened by sing-
ing, “O Jesus the Giver,” etc. Prayer by
Counselor E. Stevenson. Continued by
singing, “O, say what is truth.”
	Minutes of previous meeting read and
approved. Secretary, Sister Young not be-
ing present, Sister L. D. Alder, was called
to take the minutes.
	President M. I. Horne, felt glad that she
was able to be present to day, as she had
been away for some time. Said she had
been to Bear Lake, on a visit, and bore
testimony that the same spirit moved upon
the sisters there as it does everywhere,
where the saints dwell, she said, ‘‘I greet
you, my sisters with love and kindness, I
pray that we may be faithful and true to
our covenants, then the grace of God will
be with us.”
	Sister Minerva Snow, said, “Accidentally
I am here, not knowing that this was meet-
ing day, but was invited by a sister, whom
I called upon to visit. I am pleased with
the report of Sister Horne of the faithful
ness of the sisters everywhere. I rejoice
to see my sisters advancing and progressing.
We have everything to encourage and build
us up. Our Father has caused this organi-
zation to be instituted, that we may not be
strangers, and I thank Him for it. Do we
appreciate the rich blessings that He pours
out upon us, in His holy Temples? My
meditations on these things brings joy un-
speakable to my heart. May we endure to

[Column 2]
the end, and receive the reward of the
faithful.”
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball, “I feel pleased
to be able to stand before you for a short
time. While sitting here, I have thought
of our dear Sister King, who used to meet
here, she said she ached to be fed by the
spirit, I too have come to be fed, I cannot
go very often to meeting, yet I have much
to be thankful for. The Lord has been
good to me in my life. I am peaceful and
have a comfortable spirit.
	There is so much before us, so much to
be done, yet our Father does not require
more of us than we can do. We are here
in this mortal existence, moving on, God
sees us at all times, yet we cannot always
understand the Spirit, nor comprehend
Him. I think we might be more diligent,
more humble. Do the best we can then we
are accepted of Him. The nearer we ap-
proach the condition of the Spirit in us, the
better we will be. May we always be able
to acknowledge the hand of the Lord.”
	Sister Z. D. H. Young: “It is like a
well-spring to my heart, to see your faces,
sisters. We have increased knowledge by
reading, especially the Book of Covenants.
We cannot bound the work we are engaged
in, I am thankful that we have a part in
this work. Why we sometimes feel so
hungry and sometimes so feasted, I know
not, only that the Spirit goeth where it
listeth. We need the spirit of the Lord
daily, then He will open up the way before
us. Our trials are for our good, but when
we are passing through them, we cannot
see the light, but when we can say in our
hearts, “Thy will be done” we are near to
victory. I have heard President Young
bless the Relief Society, now sisters if you
are not enrolled, you cannot get the bless-
ing. We want to stay here in this world
and labor, as long as the Lord wants us to.
It will make no difference when our turn
comes to go. God bless you all.”
	Sister Martha Barrus, testified that we
who belong to the Relief Society do receive
blessings. Also bore her testimony. Sis-
ters sang “Who are these arrayed in white.”
	Sister Sawyer Snow, felt encouraged, and
desired to press on in the work.
	Sister Sarah Kimball, here referred to some
meetings held in the early days and spoke
of the gifts of the Spirit that were poured
out. Said she would like to see meetings
like those now.
	Sister Sarah Phelps bore a fervent testi-
mony to the the truth of the work, and
concluded in the gift of tongues.
	Sister Minerva Snow gave the interpreta-
tion.
	Sister J. C. Howe felt to testify to the
good she had received in these meetings,
and made encouraging remarks. Made
reference to the work for the dead.
Thought the time for the second coming of
our Savior was near at hand.
	Sister Morris, said, “blessed are we my
sisters,” and prophecied of the great re-
ward for the faithful.
	Sister Morris of the eleventh Ward bore
an excellent testimony.
	Sister Leaker, and a sister in the con
gregation, each spoke well, and desired to
be faithful.
	Sisters sang, “There’s a feast of fat
things,” &c.
	Sister Margaret Brown spoke on Temple
work and added a strong testimony.
	Sister Maria Wilcox also spoke on Tem-
ple work, made other remarks.

[Column 3]
	Sister Rawlinson, added her testimony.
	Sang, “Do what is right.” Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Closed by singing,
“The time is far spent.” Benediction L.
D. Alder.
L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro-tem.


