WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


equality of rights for women that the con-
vention was able to pass that resolution
and incorporate the suffrage clause giving
equal rights to women. So it is not only
the men of the convention that have to be
congratulated but the men all over the Ter-
ritory who are the constituents of these
representative men in convention assembled.
Representative men cannot do much beyond
what the rank and file of their constituents
shall demand, and the women of Utah
must remember when they hold the ballot
in their hands that their representatives in
the legislature will be able to do but very
little beyond the majority of the rank and
file, the representatives are always to con-
form to the fountain, and the fountain can
rise no higher than the source that feeds it.
So legislation can do but little more than
what is demanded by the vast majority of
the rank and file of the voters. Therefore
I congratulate not only the representatives
who sat in this hall of the great and
glorious Constitution which is to be pre-
sented to the voters of this Territory for
ratification, I congratulate the rank and
rfile of the voters all over the state for hav-
ing made demands in their respective
localities to produce this splendid results.
	But I want to say to you that as President
of the National Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion I am here for the purpose of looking
into this new constituency of the Woman’s
Suffrage Association and I am here to take
the chair in this convention by virtue of
having been re-elected by the delegates
representing the thirty-six different states
and societies of the Union composing the
National. Ever since we were fairly or-
ganized Utah has always been with us and
among us to help to make and to establish
and to maintain the National Woman Suf-
frage Association. We have always had
with us the delegates from Utah. Nearly
always have we had with us the lady who
is now the President of our Territorial As-
sociation Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells who
represented the women of this Territory at
the Convention in Washington. As I am
President by the choice of the delegates
sent from those thirty-six states I feel
highly honored with my position and I am
delighted to be here and I congratulate you
in their name and on their behalf in the
grand step that has been taken by your Con-
stitutional Convention in contributing to
the admission of Utah as a State giving
the equality of Suffrage to women. (Ap-
plause.)


