OBITUARIES.

	IN memory of Mrs. Julia Ann Whittaker Moss,
wife of David Moss, one of the Mormon Battalion
who died May 22, 1895, at her home in St. George.
She was born in England, March 11th, 1835, and
was the daughter of Isaac and Sarah Amaison
Whittaker; she came with her parents to Utah in
1850, and with her husband was called to Dixie
thirty years ago, she leaves one son and two
daughters, and her aged companion, and ten
grand children to mourn her loss; she was a lov-
ing wife and mother, she performed a noble work
in the St. George Temple for the dead. May we
who still remain, do as well as she has done.
				BETSY G. WHITTAKER.
	DIED at Goshen Utah, June 1st, 1895, our aged
and respected Sister, Ann Gardener in her ninety
first year. She was born the 27th of April 1805,
in Glasgow Scotland. She obeyed the gospel in
1852, and like many others, through obeying the
Gospel, was left a widow with her family to sup-
port. She emigrated to Utah in 1856, crossing the
plains in Captain Dan McArthurs Company of
handcarts with her three sons and two daughters,
enduring bravely all the hardships incident to
such a journey. She leaves three sons and one
daughter, forty-two grand children and thirty-
five great grand-children and numerous friends
to mourn her loss. She was a faithful Latter-
day Saint, and a teacher in our Relief Society, we
wish to cherish her memory and offer these
Resolutions of Respect.
	Whereas—Our Heavenly Father in His wisdom
has taken from our midst our aged and beloved
sister and co laborer, we wish to emulate her vir-
tues and her noble qualities.
	Whereas—She was patient and cheerful through
all her trials, and faithful in the performance of
her duties, in fact her whole life in particular was
given to God and his service, and our long and
continued relation with her, make it imperative
that we record our appreciation of her.
	Therefore be it Resolved that the wisdom and
ability and labors of our beloved sister be held in
grateful remembrance.
	Also Resolved that a copy of these Resolutions
be copied in our record of the Goshen Relief
Society, and one given to the bereaved relatives
and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.
	We say with the poet Sloan,
		“Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
			Their wearied bodies down
		Who leave this frail and mortal clay
			To seek a fadeless crown.”
	EMMA L. JENKINS, MARTHA CHRISTENSON,
ELISON GOURLEY—Committee.


