
[illegible line]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 153
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 25. 26	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.  JUNE 1, 1897.	No. 23


CONTENTS:
	A Woman’s View Of The Greek Question—
Mrs. L. S.Dickinson. U.W.P. C.—Ella W. Hyde,
Act. Sec. Notes From Willard—Bethiah F.
Wells. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting, Lydia D.
Alder, Act. Sec. Notes and News. In Memori-
am. R. S. Reports.
	EDITORIAL:—The New Volume. President
Young’s Birthday. Editorial Notes. Conven-
tion of Woman’s Clubs.
	POETRY:—America—S. F. Smith.  Reply To
The Question—L. M. H. Aurelia—Lydia D
Alder.


AMERICA.
MY country ’tis of thee
Sweet land of liberty,
	Of thee I sing;
Land where my father’s died,
Land of the p lgrim’s pride,
From ev’ry mountain side,
	Let freedom ring.

My native country, thee,
Land of the noble free,
	Thy name I love;
I love thy rocks and rills, 
Thy woods and templed hills,
My heart with rapture thrills,
	Like that above.

Let music swell the breeze, 
And ring from all the trees,
	Sweet freedom’s song;
Let mortal tongues awake,
Let all that breathe partake,
Let rocks their silence break,
	The sound prolong.

Our fathers’ God, to thee,
Author of liberty,
	To thee we sing;
Long may our hearts be bright,
With freedom’s holy light,
Protect us by thy might
	Great God our King.
				S. F. SMITH.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN’S VIEW OF THE GREEK
		QUESTION.

	BY MRS. L. S. DICKINSON.
	GREECE, whose name is rich in past
glories, has gone down in defeat on ac-
count of the inefficiency of her leaders, and
the overwhelming number of her enemy.
Other nations have looked on and smiled
because the loss was not their own, but
here and there throughout the world, are
men and women whose hearts have gone
out in sympathy toward the little country
in southern Europe, whose inhabitants
number less than a million people that
belonged originally to a race of men whose
deeds of bravery and loyalty have been
acknowledged by the gods of war, and
placed upon the pinnacle of fame from
where the light of their patriotism has
shone the world over, and will continue to
shine till time is no more.
	Greece is celebrated in the history of
freedom, of literature, art, philosophy and

[Column 2]
civilization generally, has fought for hearth-
stone as well as her religion, since the first
pages of European history were turned.
	Though two thousand or more years
have passed since the Golden Age, we are
refered more than we realize to the glories
of that time and people.
	If we look for some especially beautiful
piece of sculpture, we will be refered to
the work of some Greek artist. If we hear
of some remarkably beautiful woman,
we will perchance hear that she has Grecian
features. If we listen to a scientific sermon
or lecture, we will hear of the greatness of
some Greek poet or philosopher whose
voice is still heard in the halls of modern
learning.
	Greece is truly "the home of the poet
and the sculptor,” and her lamp of learn-
ing has indeed kindled an exalted admira-
tion in the hearts of the sons and daughters
of all civilized nations, for the heroes who
have left to their descendants names that
were “not born to die,” but to live on in
the memories of those that may follow on
for generations to come. For it was there,
in the land of Greece, through the bravery
and intelligence of those same heroes, that
political freedom for man was attained for
the first time in the history of the world.
	The glories of Greece never waned until
her government was wrested from her and
placed in the power of a nation whose every
thought and act was contrary to her own,
then the cloud of sorrow and despair set-
tled over her people, robbing them of the
power to maintain the standard of civiliza-
tion their fathers had established.
	The Greeks for hundreds of years have
believed that when a Constantine should
once more be united in marriage to a
daughter of Hellas by the name of Sophia,
it would be a day of rejoicing for Greece,
for she would then be in possession of Con-
stantinople once more and Prince Constan-
tine, Commander in Chief of the Greek
forces, being married to Sophia, a true
daughter of Hellas at the present time,
might, or might not have had some effect
upon the enthusiasm of the irregular band
of impatient but patriotic Greeks who
unfortunately precipitated the Greco-
Turkish war of 1897, before the Greek
Government was prepared for the struggle.
	In 1822 the Greeks rebelled against the
Turkish rule and after a fierce war in
which the Greek leaders made themselves
famous for all time by the brave and fear-
less manner in which they led their little
army against every conceivable disadvan-
tage on to victory, they recaptured cer-
tain parts of Grecian territory which are now
known as Modern Greece, whose literature
is still in its infancy and whose people have
been slow to regain their natural inherit-
ance of independence, as well as being
dilatory in trying to better their condition,
on account of their not having thoroughly
rallied from the depressing effect of Turk-
ish rule to which they were so long sub-
jected.
	Naturally, the Greek people were Platon-
ic in their love affairs and are sensitive in
the extreme, possessing the capacity to en-

[Column 3]
dure great suffering or great joy. They
have very weird imaginations and are
easily discouraged, and just as easily in-
spired by the din of battle and are willing
to follow a brave leader in whom they have
confidence into the very jaws of death.
When the news of the certainty of a
Greco-Turkish war reached this country
there was both fear and hope in every
home in the land where Greek history was
understood. Each heart trembled for fear
the Mother Land of political freedom
would go down in defeat on account of
her comparatively defenceless condition in
not being prepared for a great military con-
flict.
	The one hope common to every liberty
loving heart was that Greece, the one
country that had taught all other nations
their first lessons in intellectual develop-
ment, might conquer the people whose his-
tory is one of massacre and bloodshed,
whose very name is a disgrace to the world. 
	Had King George been of strong mili-
tary ability himself and possessed less con-
fidence in some of his personal friends and
in his son, Prince Constantine, whose
courage seemed to have vanished ere the
war began, there would have been a dif-
ferent story for the Greek sympathizers to
tell; but whatever the other faults of King
George might have been, his greatest
enemies must of a necessity give him credit
for the prompt manner in which he re-
sponded to the cry for help that came from
distressed Cretes when the brutal Turks
began their massacre on the island.
	Though King George was deficient in
the ability to command a great army, he
deserves commendation for the stand he
took in behalf of humanity; for when the
Powers continually threatened Greece with
coercion if he did not withdraw his troops
from Crete, he answered, “Greece knows
she must be victorious or disappear; we
know that all the Powers are more or less
against us, but a great wrong has been
committed against right and humanity in
the Cretan question, and the chastisement
has commenced.”
	The thoughtful lovers of justice will al-
ways honor the King of Greece for defend-
ing his countrymen and fellow Christians
as he did, by refusing to withdraw his
troops from Crete and leave the field in
possession of the Turk for he knew full
well if he did so the people would be
massacred, the island destroyed and turned
over to anarchy and ruin.
	It cannot be said of the Greek soldiers
that they were not good or willing fighters,
for even the Turks have given them that
credit, and when they have been ordered to
retreat on account of the bad management
of the officers in command, they have fallen
back with tears of vexation in their eyes
and curses upon their lips.
	What could have shown their loyalty
any more than the ready manner in which
they gave up their money, their homes and
their loved ones in this and other countries
and went to the rescue of their own country,
and to certain death, for they must have
known that when their ships sailed beyond


[Column 1]
the peaceful bars of their adopted countries
there would be no returning for them, un-
less the fickle Goddess of chance chose to
bestow her smiles upon them.
	What could teach the natural bravery of
the Greeks more than the voluntary ser-
vices of their men who have made their
homes in a land of plenty and reared their
families under the Star Spangled Banner.
Men who have learned to love and appreci-
ate freedom in all that the word implies,
and have given up all and gone to die if
need be for their mother land. The old
flag that is so dear to every American heart
has taken upon itself new glories for the
hundreds of brave men who have sailed to
Greece under its protection, for many of
those men while fighting for their own
native land have gone to their death loving
the flag of their adopted country, where
they have left all that is dear to them ex- 
cept their love and veneration for the
Fatherland. People are rather apt to cen-
sure the weak side of any contest without
a proper appreciation of the circumstances
surrounding the case. They will, so soon
as the one side has suffered defeat, immedi-
ately jump to the conclusion that something
has been done or left undone that might
have won for them the victory. Such
criticisms have been made of Greece, 
whereas the greatest possible amount of
praise should be unhesitatingly bestowed
upon her for having the courage to resent
a wrong and go to war in behalf of justice
and right, with a people whose army was
well equipped and well officered, was
drilled, advised and upheld by the Powers
of Europe and largely outnumbered the
Greek forces.
	Had it been the good fortune of Greece
to have conquered her Turkish enemy,
whose men deem it a pleasure as well as an
honor to rush into instant death because
their religion teaches them that beyond the
grave there is for them “ A Paradise where
sensual pleasures shall know no satiety.”
She would have bestowed a priceless favor
on the civilized world and gained for her-
self new glories that would have marked
the beginning of a new and brighter era for
her people But fate willed it otherwise
and the Powers had their way, and the
money Kings of Europe were saved, for the
time being at least.
	Thessaly not being recaptured by the
Greeks in the war of 1822 and 1823 but
ceded to her by the Turks in 1881, has
caused more or less dissatisfaction among
the Turkish people and that, coupled with
their late victory, has undoubtedly caused
the arrogant Sultan to demand the annex-
ation of Thessaly to Turkey as part pay-
ment of the indemnity more than his love
of adding to Turkish Territory.
	The Greek women as well as the men
are very enthusiastic and often take part
in the wars of their country, but if all re-
ports are true they have excelled them-
selves in the present conflict, as more then
one of the unspeakable Turks have fallen
by the hand of women. France, Brazil
Cuba and Greece have all had their Joan of
Arc, but Greece perhaps has possessed the
greater number of women who have taken
an  active part in the war.
	Evidently there are but few people in
Greece at the present time outside of the
army, as Miss Helene Eliopouloy, a Greek
maiden who recently emigrated to this
country, says that she has a father, three
uncles, three brothers-in-law and twenty-

[Column 2]
seven cousins in the Greek army, and that
she knew of seven Greek girls who entered
the army and each of them have now risen
to the rank of captain. Miss Clara Barton
expressed the sentiment of hundreds of
liberty-loving people in this country when
she, in answer to a communication from the
president of the Greek National League,
telegraphed the following message: “ Will
be very glad to co-operate in any way we
can. How can we best aid the cause?”
Queen Olga, the wife of King George, is a
true Greek who loves her country and is
in full sympathy with her people and their
cause. but unfortunately she places too
much confidence in the military ability of
her husband. She possesses great personal
charms and is highly accomplished, and
her most intimate friend is an American
lady who was born in Washington D. C.
	A patroitic person scarcely finds it pos-
sible to imagine any but a true and brave
Greek occupying King George’s apartments
in the old palace at Athens that was built
in the time of King Otho, for they are dec-
orated with the soul-stirring scenes of the
wars of liberation, and the tattered and
blood stained flags that were captured at
those same wars.
	A true Greek never gets so far from his
native land, so rich or so poor, but he re-
members to send home his remittance to aid
in establishing institutions of learning for
the rising generations of Greece. The
Athens University is a magnificent struc-
ture, and was built principally by contribu-
tions from exiled Greeks, and for this
reason it is called the National University.
	The men and women who have lived a
lifetime of freedom and plenty, would not
be so ready to condemn the Modern Greek
for his want of progress if they would but
put themselves in the Greeks place and
imagine, if possible, the state of affairs in
the land of Greece, when she has freed
herself by a fierce and bloody struggle from
her four centuries of bondage to a Turkish
ruler. Now that she has suffered new losses,
acknowledged her poverty and accepted
defeat, there will be those who will smile
in derision at the results achieved, but
there will always be those who will have a
tender reverence for, and proper apprecia- 
tion of the people who sanctified the altar
of liberty by the shedding of Christian
blood hundreds of years before our own
beautiful land of freedom, was dreamed of,
and they would be glad to join in the shout
‘‘Down with the Turk;” but that may
never be, for Christian Europe is so far
divided, and in division there is no strength.
It is the dream of France to possess Greece,
and England desires Egypt as the British
highway to India, and each of the other
powers have some covetous design that
seems to preclude the union that is neces-
sary to vanquish the power of the Sultan;
beside the money power in Europe as well
elsewhere, demands its share of attention
in diplomatic circles, and the bond holder
must have his dividend, though he be paid
in money stained in Christian blood.
	Sooner or later there must come a des-
perate struggle for supremacy between the
great powers of Continental Europe in
which England must also become involved,
and when the smoke of battle clears, it
will be found that the map of Europe has
been changed and that Turkey has been
divided among the so called Christian
nations.

[Column 3]			
U. W. P. C. 

	THE U. W. P. C. held its regular meet-
ing May 29, 1897 at the office of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, President Ruth M. Fox
presiding. Prayer was offered by Mrs.
Young; the roll was called members re-
sponding with sentiments from N. P.
Willis; minutes of last meeting were read
and accepted. Under the head of business
the matter was discussed as to whether the
members should be assessed for the Feder-
ation expenses,or whether it should be taken
from the club funds. Dr. Pratt made the
motion that each member be assessed
twenty-five cents, which was carried. A
motion was made by Mrs. E. B. Wells that
a critic be appointed at each meeting, the
criticisms to be read at the following meet-
ing, which was carried and Mrs. A. M.
Bradley was appointed critic for that meet-
ing Papers on the war between Greece
and Turkey were read. Discussion opened
by Mrs. Dickinson on Greece, Mrs. Fox,
Turkey, Mrs. Alder, Greece. Discussion
followed by the members, which was very
interesting and brought out many points.
	Mrs. Alder, Mrs. Lambert and Mrs.
Bradley were appointed a committee on
programme. Meeting was adjourned for
one month. Benediction by Mrs. Doolan.
			ELLA W. HYDE, Act. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES FROM WILLARD.

Dear Sister Wells:
	THINKING perhaps you would like to 
hear from our Relief Society, I take pleasure
in sending a few lines to your paper.
	Our venerable president, Sister Mary
Ann Hubbard, now past eighty years, is
able to meet with us and give us good
counsel. She has been president of the
Society forty years, she was appointed
president January 10, 1857, and after the
move south and the Saints returned to their
homes, she was again appointed president.
Her faithful counselors try to make her
duties as light as possible and all are united
in trying to do all the good they can.
	On the 9th of April a few of the sisters
met at the home of an aged couple, Brother
and Sister Renshaw, to celebrate their six-
tieth wedding anniversary, taking picnic
with them, and gave them some presents
that were well appreciated and all had a
pleasant time, especially the aged couple.
	On the 22nd of April, our general meet-
ing day, we met to have a general sociable,
and after the opening exercises our beloved
President announced that the sociable was
held in honor of our secretary, Sister Beth-
iah Fordham Wells, who had performed
her duty as secretary faithfully for nearly
sixteen years. Suitable pieces written for
the occasion, recitations and singing, also
an address by the Bishop occupied a portion
of the time. Then came refreshments, and
last but not least, our President in behalf of
the sisters of the Relief Society presented
the secretary with a beautiful fur cape, and
all said and felt that she had earned it.
Her heart was too full of gratitude for 
utterance. All had an enjoyable time long
to be remembered. 
With kind regards we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel
MARY ANN HUBBARD, Pres’t. 
BETHIAH F. WELLS, Sec’y.
Willard, May 12, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
	REPLY TO THE QUESTION. 

		"WHERE ARE YOUR BOYS?
Ah, where are my boys do you question;
	That I am thus left here alone?
Three of them passed over the River,
	Only one remains of my own!
One striving with time’s fitful changes,
	Amid its vexations and trial,
Conflicting with crosses and losses,
	Only one left one of them all.
My girls too passed over the River,
	In the summer of life’s fair dawn,
Away from earth’s limits forever, 
	And left me their absence to mourn.
When yearning their presence to cheer me,
	Repeating their names o’er and o’er,
I fancy they often are near me,
	Drawn back from the "Evergreen Shore."
So I strive to overcome sorrow,
	Look away from the shroud and bier,
In hope, to that blessed tomorrow,
	To sing the glad song "We're all here."
							L. M. H.


AURELIA

REST dear one rest! And O, may it be sweet
In the land of the blest thy Savior to meet!
Thy pathway of life was troubledand sad,
May this “Happy New Year,” make thy tremb-
	ling heart glad.

O, hard is the journey that leads to the height;
But o’er the bleak mountains the peak is in sight;
There too to the traveler green valleys appear, 
Where the tired feet rest, and the Father is near.

The streamlets are bubbling a beautiful song;
And the wind of the South plays the tall trees
	among;
And there where the skies are sunny and blue,
There is rest for the weary, and happiness too.

Bright song birds are warbling their rarest notes
Like vespers at eve, the sweet melody floats;
From the crystal clear fountains the pearl drops 
	are falling, 
So faint on the ear like angel’s voice calling.

O, there is the rest most soothing and sweet;
And there the dear Lord his ransomed ones greet;
O, they are not lost but forever more blest
To all whom He loves, He giveth sweet rest.

Then ring out ye bells! this Happy New Year,
And tho’ on thy page hath fallen a tear,
Yet spotless and fair it will fade from the sight,
Fast melting in mist to the land that is light.

Rest, O there is joy when, the wanderer comes
	home,
Though foot-sore and weary breathing many a
	moan;
Yet the Father who notes the wee sparrow’s fall,
Outstretches His arms to gather us all.

Then sweet be thy rest this Happy New Year !
Though stand we in sorrow around thy young
	bier;
Yet in the fair mansions where the glorious ones
	dwell,
At the feet of the Father you say “ It is well.”
   A member of our Sundav School class who
died New Year’s Day, 1897.
L. D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
May 15, 1897, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Opened by singing “Glorious
things are sung of Zion;” prayer by Sister

[Column 2]
Maria Wilcox; continued by singing
“Though nations rise and men conspire;”
minutes of last meeting read and accepted.
	President Horne was thankful to be here
with us again. Thanked the sisters for
their prayers and sympathy during her
bereavement. “We are organized and
thereby we are strong. We have had so
much revealed yet we will have more as
soon as we live up to what we already
have.” Felt thankful for the Gospel and
for our lives which are a school for us. to
learn lessons. “I hope we shall learn
them well. We must bear patiently, and
not sink under our tribulations, to regret
when we are worn out and go to rest. We
are making our own records which will
stand for us forever.” Referred to the
Psalmist David, how he washed himself
and then ate food, and quoted his answer
to the question why did he do this, “We
go to meetings and hear His servants speak
about Him, yet here we testify one to the
other how good God has been to us." Re-
ferred to her Patriarchal blessings and how 
true they were, and how good the Lord had
been to her through all her sorrows and
afflictions.
	President Zina D. H. Young said, “I am
happy to be with you to day. President
Young instituted these meetings and what
a blessing they are to those who come here
with sad hearts. By the word of our testi-
mony we shall overcome. If angels come
here, they have a way to take notes and
these will be part of our record. We want
to lay up good words to think of. It is
sacred to come here. Every step we take
in obedience the stronger we will become.
Those who seek to do the mind and will of
God will come out all right. If things
come that you do not understand, do not
worry it will be all right, I am thankful 
for the Gospel. I used to be a Methodist,
and I was sincere but when the Gospel
came I gladly embraced it. Do not find
fault with the authorities; up hill or down
hill, hold on to that staff it will be all right.
The Gospel is good in youth, in old age
and good to die by.
	How I wish the seats were full! How I
wish we all appreciated our privileges!
How I wish I could whisper to the spirits
of our sisters ‘Come to meeting!’ I love to
praise the sisters. We are blessed, but let
us be humble. I want to hear the sisters
speak of the loving kindness of the Lord.”
	Sister Leaker bore her testimony to the
truth of this work. “I would not dare
raise my voice against the Lord’s anoint-
ed. The Lord will bless all those who
trust in Him. If you are in trouble go to
the Lord, He will not tell any one else, and
He will bless you.”
	Sister Maria Wilcox thanked the Lord 
that we had mothers in Israel to give us 
such precious words as we have had today.
Said we should be ready to perform every
duty that devolves upon us. Spoke of the
Temple work and encouraged the sisters
to go and do their Temple work. 
	Sister Davis bore her testimony. Told
of a man who was born and raised here,
yet had never spoken to President Wood-
ruff, yet was so anxious to do so. “I feel
how privileged I have been and I am so
thankful for my many blessings.”
	Sister Bassett said she had a testimony
to bear; thought we should appreciate the
many blessings we have. Have no desire
to find fault. Spoke of her parents suffer-
ing and endurance at Nauvoo; made
many encouraging remarks.

[Column 3]
	Sister Margaret Steele spoke of her
pleasure in coming to meeting and seeing
the faces of her sisters. “I have never
doubted the truth of this work. I try to
live my religion and try to be faithful.”
Spoke of charity, and how we should look
at each other, perhaps we would do no bet-
ter in the same place.”
	Sister Jones said, “I know that God
lives and that He has spoken in these last
days, and that we still have His mouth-
pieces here with us. These meetings here
always have been such a comfort to me. If
the sisters only knew how glorious these
meetings are I know they would come."
	Sister Jane James bore her testimony.
She was thankful that she was in this
kingdom and desired to be faithful. “I
desire to do the will of my Father who is
in heaven. I know this work is true, it is
all we have worth living for but the Spirit
of God.” Concluded by speaking in
tongues; interpretation given by Sister Zina
D. H. Young.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said, “I have
been so delighted with the counsel given
and the testimonies borne, that I feel that
I would like to add my humble testimony.
I have a testimony that Joseph Smith was
a true prophet.” Spoke of her experiences
in England; how good her parents were,
and how glad she was that she ever heard
the sound of the Gospel. Spoke beauti-
fully on charity,
	Sister Gardner bore her testimony. Sis-
ter Margaret O. Brown felt to encourage
the sisters in Temple work. Said it was a
glorious work, and how glad we will be to
meet those whom we have officiated for
when we get behind the vail.
	President Horne made closing remarks
and meeting adjourned for two weeks, at
usual time and place. Closed by singing,
“’Mid scenes of confusion.” Benediction
by Sister L. D. Alder,
				L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	La Ligue for January announces that an
International Congress for Women will be
held in Brussels in August next. The
Congress will be organized by the Ligue
Belge du Droit des Femmes.
	MRS. KATIE R. ADDISON, president of
the Kansas Equal Suffrage Association,
calls attention to the fallacy of the accusa-
tion constantly made that advocates of
equal rights are almost all spinsters. She
says: “I do not know how it may be else-
where, but in Kansas we have but one un-
married woman on the official board, and
she is a young woman (Laura Gregg)."
	A MASS-MEETING of nearly 2,000 wo-
men was held recently at Omaha, Neb., to
elect eleven of their number for the Board
of Lady Managers of the Trans-Mississippi
Exposition. Of the women chosen, one is
an author of some note, one a well-known
artist in china painting, one a musician of
acknowledged talent, another a promising
member of the Library Board, another was
for years the general manager of the For-
eign Missionary Societies of the Christian
Church, three are teachers of ability con-
nected with the city schools, and the rest 
are women prominent in both literary and
social circles.
	Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 1, 1897.


THE NEW VOLUME.  

	How glad we should be if we could say
the new volume commences under auspici-
ous circumstances or with a hopeful out-
look, but unfortunately it is not so, and yet
if the women of the community could only
realize the value of having a paper of their
own it might be very different. We know
there is always a faithful few who are prompt
in payments,and who would rather do with-
out something else so that they might help
sustain a home periodical. All our sisters
must be aware by this time, having been
frequently reminded through these columns,
that there is great need of extra exertion
on their part just now in the midst of finan-
cial depression, to maintain their own
journal. 
	We will not recount all the disadvantages
that have brought about the present need
of money, (but they are all apparent to the
editor, yet would not look well in print)
but we would urge upon the sisters in the
Church, and especially in the Relief Society,
that great organization of women that was
founded more than fifty-five years ago, that
they strive with greater diligence to increase
the circulation of their own official organ; the 
President of every branch of the Relief
Society should consider it her duty to ap-
point a committee to canvas the ward in
which she presides, and to urge upon the
sisters the necessity there is of sustaining
the paper in the interest of women and of 
the Society at home and abroad.
	One sister from a distance writing recent-
ly to the editor, said, that “the EXPONENT
was like a light set on a hill.”
	Sister Young, the President of this great 
and grand Relief Society, has said over
and over and has published over her own
signature that no woman is expected to 
preside over the Relief Society who does
not have a copy of the paper which is the
official organ. If the President herself is
not able to pay for a copy, then the money
should be raised in the Society for this pur-
pose 
	Remember now is the beginning of the
twenty-sixth volume of the paper, and it is
time to renew subscriptions and for new sub-
scribers to commence to take it. We do
not believe any sister who will do so will 
ever miss the price of the subscription; at
any rate the editor will endeavor to do her 
part, and the reader must recollect that she
uses the best material that is furnished and
strives editorially to maintain a high stand-
ard of purity and moral excellence.


[Column 1]
BRIGHAM YOUNG’S BIRTHDAY.

	The anniversary of President Young’s
birthday was celebrated under the auspices
of the Young Family Association at the
famous Lion House in this city, Tuesday,
June 1. The grand old parlor and hall
were profusely decorated with stars and
stripes, and with beautiful flowers, and
portraits large and small of Brigham Young
were hung in conspicuous places and draped
with national colors and with small flags in
the most picturesque fashion; there was
also here and there a bust of President
Young, and these additional features gave
character to the rooms and to the gathering.
The party was composed almost exclusive-
ly of the wives and descendants of Presi-
dent Young himself, with a few of his
brothers wives and their children, and
some particular friends.
	There was a little delay in opening the
exercises which had been arranged by a
committee of the sons and daughters, as
President Wilford Woodruff was expected,
but when word came that he did not feel
quite able to attend, the program opened
with Captain Willard Young, Master of
Ceremonies, as Apostle Brigham Young,
the eldest son (who has recently been very
ill) was scarcely strong enough to pre-
side. The assembly joined in singing,
“We thank Thee O, God for a Prophet,”
and an eloquent prayer was offered by
Bishop H. B. Clawson. President Lorenzo
Snow made the opening address which con-
tained an earnest appeal to all present, but
especially to the family of President Young
to officiate in the ordinances for the dead in
the house of the Lord, to live lives of devo-
tion to the work for which he whom they
met to honor and reverence today had lived
and had died, leaving the inheritance of
this work to be done by his posterity.
	Apostle Brigham Young made a feeling
address which contained many old-time rem-
iniscences, and was full of affectionate
interest for all.
	Song “O, My Father,” by R. C. Easton
in his inimitable rendering, Spencer Clawson
Jun. playing the accompaniment; piano
solo, Spencer Clawson; song, Lulu Moore;
“Many happy returns of the day;” read-
ing (Humorous) Master Frank Fenton
Young; song “Mona,” by R. C. Easton,
a most exquisite melody; piano duet,
Emmie and Lyle Yeung; verbal report of
the Young Family Association, Susa Y.
Gates; song Lula Moore, “Hearts and
Homes;” recitation Miss Frankie Young,
written by Mrs. R. E. Monch, title, Brigham
Young; address, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young;
Negro song in dialect with mandolin, Alice
Clawson—followed by an encore; song,
“Tit for Tat,” Nellie Brown; Lulu Gates
piano solo and song “The Garden of
Sleep,” also a Kanaka song; recitation,
Zebulon W. Jacobs, words by Elder C. W.
Penrose on the death of Brigham Young.
After the program delicious refreshments
were served and conversation of a reminis-
cent character generally was indulged in.
One particular feature of the day was the
singing of the old song “Twenty Years
Ago,” by about twenty of the daughters
and grand-daughters of the President.
This was considered appropriate on account
of its having been the twentieth anniver-
sary since the day was celebrated last by
the President himself, June 1, 1877.
	There is no place in Salt Lake City per-
haps of a more historic character than the

[Column 2]
Lion House, where the greater part of the
family of President Young lived so many
years, where so many social events have
been celebrated, and where hundreds of
strangers have been entertained by this re-
markable man and by members of his fam-
ily, notably Sister Eliza R. Snow, the poet
and author, and where both President
Young and Sister Eliza died and several
other members of the family. It was in
this house many of Sister Eliza’s poems
were written, and also there the girls and
boys in their youth and childhood had
many parties and private theatricals.
	In that house President Young organized
the Young girls of his own family into an
Association for mutual improvement and
spiritual elevation and advancement in
knowledge and wisdom, and that they
might obtain a more correct understanding
of the principles of life and salvation and a
testimony of the truth of the Gospel. This
association has grown and flourished until
now it numbers many thousands.
WRITTEN FOR THE ANNIVERSARY OF PRESI-
DENT BRIGHAM YOUNG’S BIRTHDAY
JUNE 1, 1897.
	IT is right and proper that children
should honor their parents, and what is
more fitting than to meet together on their
parents natal day, especially after their
death, and talk over the reminiscences of
their childhood and rehearse all the good
and pleasant things they have experienced,
and store their minds with memories rich
and precious to hand down to coming gen-
erations.
	The old Lion House is a monument of
historical reminiscences, some pleasant and
some of a sorrowful nature.
	The childhood days of most of the sons
and daughters of President Young were
spent in the Lion House; some were born
there and some died there; some lost their
mothers, some their children. Life is
made up of a variety of circumstances,
some bringing happiness, others sadness.
Perfect happiness is not to be looked for in
mortal life. None can go through this
imperfect state of existence without making
more or less mistakes, and we ought to
overlook a great deal, which we all certainly
can do, when we consider our own weak
and imperfect natures. If children have
differences they are soon forgotten and
naught but the happy times remembered.
Ties have been formed that will never be
broken. Children grow up, get married
and are in a measure separated, but there
is in each heart a bond of love that draws
them together. A love that has grown
with their lives and will continue to grow
stronger and stronger while time shall
last, and in the eternal worlds it will grow
no less. I do not think another family as
large as President Young’s could be found,
where there was less trouble and difficulty
than among those that dwelt in the Lion
House.
	It is surprising how well plural families
got along together. I am reminded of a
little circumstance that took place soon
after I moved to the Head House (now
owned by my daughter, Mrs. Emily Claw-
son.) It was when Brother Piper had
charge of President Young’s temporal
affairs. He called to see me one day and
said Sister Clara D. Young had requested
him to look after me and see that I did not
lack the comforts of life. He expressed
some surprise that one wife should take


such an interest in another wife in the
same family. Well take them all together,
President Young had about as good a fam-
ily as could be found; and as far as I know
the best of feelings exists among them at
the present time. We have had our ups
and downs. Our trials have been for good,
and the longer we live, and the older we
grow, we can see that we have no cause to
feel sorrowful, but every reason to thank
the Lord for His mercies and kind care
that has been over us; and that He has
deigned to guide us in the right way. Our
paths may not always have been strewn
with thornless roses, but we have been the
recipients of many favors. And as for my-
self, I feel more and more thankful that I
took the course that God marked out for
me, although to look ahead at the time
things looked very dark. And I know that
my children will honor and bless my name
in the far future. I think they realize now
to a certain extent the sacredness of my
marriage with the Prophet Joseph, but
perhaps not as perfectly as they will here-
after. I feel glad that I have been asso-
ciated with the family of President Young.
We have formed ties that will last through
the eternities.
	The last scenes that have been associated
with the old familiar house were of a very
sad and sorrowful nature. The most try-
ing scene of all was when President Young,
the father, the husband and our protector
passed from this world away to a better
land. His family were left like sheep with-
out a shepherd.—Well of what followed I
need not speak, we need no reminder.
Some things are better forgotten if possible.
Times are now changing and we can see
the hand of the Lord in all things.
	May the family continue to be united,
and those who have wandered return and
be reclaimed, is the heartfelt desire of,
			EMILY D. P. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE were favored recently with a visit from
Mrs. Clinton Smith of Washington, D. C.
a member of the National Press Associa-
tion and a very pleasing and delightful wo-
man in many ways. Her husband came
to Utah in the interest of the war depart-
ment, having been sent to look after some
bu lding interest and this gave Mrs. Smith
an opportunity to visit our City. She at-
tended the Tabernacle services in company
with the writer and Dr. R. B. Pratt; we
also had in the party a distinguished French
writer and correspondent of a French paper
and Mrs. M. M. Johnson, known best by
her nom de plume, Ruby Lamonte; the
last named lady came to the city to attend
the Text Book Convention and was the
guest during her stay of Mr. and Mrs.
P. T. Farnsworth. These ladies are wo-
men of notable and exceptionally fine 
qualities and attainments.
	MADAME CLEOPHAS, the French writer,
was a very fascinating woman. She has
traveled much and kept her eyes open, and
can describe in glowing terms what she has
seen. She is a true philanthropist and a
member of the Red Cross, is a friend of
Clara Barton’s and of the Misses Johnson’s
who visited Salt Lake a year or so ago,
and were entertained by the Press Club, or
rather we should say, entertained the Press
Club most delightfully. Madame Cleophas
has the charming personality peculiar to


the cultured women of France. She is a
brilliant conversationalist and highly en-
tertaining in her descriptions of persons and
places. Madame has had some sorrowful ex-
periences; she has promised the writer a
sketch of her past life which we hope to
have soon, when we may be able to tell
you some thrilling incidents through
which she has passed in her early woman-
hood.
	MRS. CLINTON SMITH was born in Ver-
mont among the Green mountains, and
has all her life been engaged in philan-
thropic work, and has been a contributor to
the “Rural New Yorker,” “Weekly Wit-
ness,” “Demorest’s Magazine,” and other
periodicals. She has used the pen names,
Alica and August Noon, and is now ac-
tively engaged in literary pursuits, though
she has a family of five children and judg-
ing from her conversation one would think
her an excellent housekeeper as well as
wife and mother. Her home was in Mid-
dlebury, Vt., until 1891, when her husband
accepted a Government position in Wash-
ington, D. C. Her father was a pioneer
geologist in his native state. Mrs. Smith
attended the meetings of the Federation of
Clubs held in this city, and made a neat
little speech during the discussion on
Thnrsday morning in which she paid a
high compliment to Senator Frank J. Can-
non who had been most kind and helpful
to the ladies in their work on special com-
mittees with which she had been connected.
Mrs. Smith attended the club reception on
Thursday evening at Mrs. Nelden’s, escorted
by Dr. Pratt. On Friday morning she left
the city to return home, and we hope car-
ried with her pleasant memories of Utah
and certainly she left agreeable impressions
with those who had the opportunity of be-
coming acquainted with her.


[Column 1]
CONVENTION OF WOMAN’S CLUBS.

	THE Utah Federation of Clubs held its
annual Convention in this city May 26 and
27, commencing at 10.30 on Wednesday
morning, May 26. There was a good
sized audience in the Church and the dec-
orations of flowers and plants were very
fine. It was interesting to note the person-
nel of the women who took part in the pro-
ceedings, for however beautiful any hall
may be, it is not so much of a study as
human nature; and we have often thought
the studies from life in an assembly of this
kind were very valuable. The entire
audience was quite enthusiastic in their
welcome to Mrs. Henrotin, the General
President. The President, Mrs. Jennings,
is a very fine executive officer, and has a
winning manner, and Mrs. Henrotin of
Chicago has a graceful and attractive style
about her, and one knows directly that she
has been much in society.
	Then there were three other distinct
types of women, the guests from Colorado;
besides the visitors from Ogden, Provo,
Springville and elsewhere. In fact it was
a most delightful collection of women, if
one may be permitted the expression, and
the occasion was inspiring and exhilarating.
There was so much to do and to say and
the enthusiasm never flagged, at least that
is the expression of one member present.
	The opening invocation was by Mrs. N.
F. Putnam and was earnest and eloquent.
Minutes of last year read and approved.
Next, the credentials in the hands of a com-

[Column 2]
mittee who reported all the clubs in the
Federation represented. Next, business
was the admission of new clubs, five in
number as follows: Woman’s Athaeneum
of Park City; S. B. L., Coalville Home
Culture, Ogden; Ogden Historical Society;
and Provo Sorosis. Then came the address
of welcome by Mrs. E. B. Wells and response
by Mrs. M. H. Graham. Vice-President of
the Federation, which was given in a very
pleasing way and was quite poetical in con-
struction and in rendering. We regret
very much that we have not space for all
the speeches given and business transacted,
but we can say truthfully that it was a
most instructive session of meetings and we
feel much real good has been gained by
women In thus affiliating and helping each
other.
	After the two days meeting a reception
was given by the club women on Thurs-
day evening at the elegant residence of
Mrs. W. A. Nelden, at which there was a
fair sprinkling of gentlemen among the
many ladies. The spacious parlors were
fragrant and beautiful with flowers, and
the music by Olsen’s Band was most inspir-
ing. In a social way the affair was a perfect
success. Among the distinguished gentle-
men present were Mr. Charles Henrotin of
Chicago, Apostle H. J. Grant, President
Angus M. Cannon, C. S. Kinney, W E.
Halm, Dr. A. C. Ewing, Rev. A. H. Henry,
Dr. Plummer and Mr. McCormick, and
scores of beautiful and intellectual women.
SPEECH OF WELCOME, MRS. E. B. WELLS.
	Mrs. President Henrotin, Mrs. Presi-
dent Jennings, delegates, visitors from a
distance and from adjacent cities, good
friends one and all- In behalf of the Salt
Lake clubs we give you sincere and heart-
felt greetings, and we rejoice to welcome
you to our fair city in the vales of the
Rocky Mountains. We congratulate this
assembly of club women today that they
are honored with the presence of the emi-
nent Mrs. Henrotin, whose name and fame
we all know throughout Utah, because of
her connection with the Columbian Ex-
position and we feel that she is very near to
the ladies assembled here on account of oc-
cupying the honorable position of president
of the general Federation of Women’s-
clnbs of which the Utah Federation is one
small branch and though it may appear
very small in comparison with other larger
states that have had greater advantages,
yet we are all aware that very often the
smaller branches of great trees are more
fruitful, if not more beautiful than those
that have attained to a greater size and a
more luxuriant growth of foliage.
	And we hope the Utah branch may
blossom and eventually bear fruit of such
excellent quality that it will not suffer by
comparison with older and larger states,
but like the fruitful bough may hang over
the Rocky Mountain wall that hems Utah
in, and become known and appreciated in
other lands.
	We are proud to have Mrs. Henrotin
and the Colorado women in our midst, and
we extend fraternal greetings to Mrs.
Thatcher, president of the Colorado Feder-
ation, to Mrs. Gale, its vice-president, and
to Mrs. Platt, president of the Denver Wo-
man’s club, and we hope to make the so-
journ in our city of these distinguished
representatives of progress and literary
merit a delightful holiday.
	We proffer to our guests the hand of


[Column 1]
fellowship and good will, and trust while
assembled in these gatherings there shall be
such happy interchange of ideas and mutual 
thought, that we shall all of us forever after,
feel richer in knowledge and wisdom, and
have a better understanding of each other’s
conception of the duties and obligations of
life, and of that large duty we all owe to
each other and to the great world of
humanity.
	Again, we welcome the visitors to our
hearts and homes, feeling assured it is
good for us to know each other better and
thus learn to love each other more, to have
greater charity, because of the larger oppor-
tunity afforded through the association that
comes through our local clubs and the
grouping of clubs in the State, and the fur-
their grouping of the several states, bring-
ing into touch and cementing the love and
fellowship of the women of America, in
one golden chain, reaching from the Atlan-
tic to the Pacific, and from Canada to the
Gulf of Mexico; and in the grand galaxy
of bright stars, be sure the intermountain
states (whose highest altitude scarce equals
the lofty ideas of their generosity to women)
will shine with a brilliancy of setting of
which we who are honored with the full
rights of citizenship may be justly proud.
	In closing my remarks on this auspici-
ous and happy occasion, pardon me if I re-
vert for one moment to the spirit of the wo-
men Pioneers of this now fair State, who
in the early days of the valley though liv-
ing in a primitive way, far removed from
the great cities of the world, in keeping
with the progressive spirit of the age and
believing in the advancement of women,
established in this city, the first woman’s
paper in this intermountain region a quarter
of a century ago, and the first except one,
west of the Mississippi river. I merely
cite this fact to prove that Western women,
although perhaps lacking the culture of the
East, have not been behind in ideas at least
of woman’s higher education and literary
attainments.
	In conclusion we extend to you a true
and tender welcome to our own mountain
home, in the new State, the forty-fifth
star in the dear old flag, the Stars and
Stripes that in these mountain states, Colo-
rado, Wyoming, Utah and Idaho float over
free women as well as free men.
	Let us hope and believe that the in-
spiration of this convention may stimulate
us to greater efforts for good in all direc-
tions and along all lines and give us more
exalted and sublime ideals to work to, and
at length attain a complete realization of
the best and highest advancement possible
to reach in the pursuit of true knowledge
on the highway of life.
MRS. MCVICKER.
	Mrs. Emma J. McVicker of the Cleofan,
gave a most interesting talk on the evo-
lution of the model pupil in which she said:
“A knowledge of childhood is necessary to
a knowledge of all the ’ologies. Many
things are gained by cultivating the study
of nature, only through works of creation
can the child understand the Creator. A
child’s first instinct is to build, next comes
the plastic instinct, he instinctively desires
to mold, and if allowed full play his creative
powers will bring out many beautiful re-
sults. All children are sensible to music
and rhythm.
	The greatest principle of development
is self activity. The development of the

[Column 2]
child corresponds to the development of the
race. The child takes care of that himself,
putting himself through a course of gym-
nastics from childhood to manhood.
	The kindergarten is the only system
which enables the child to develop along all
lines. The system has proven such a suc-
cess that the kindergarten idea will soon be
carried out in the lower grades of the pub-
lic schools.”
EVENING SESSION.
	After an organ selection by Professor
Radcliffe, Mrs. Jennings introduced Mrs.
Henrotin, who commenced her address by
stating that she was usually accustomed to
speak only to ladies and that it gave her
additional pleasure to include the gentle-
men among her hearers, as this presence
indicated that the gentlemen of Salt Lake
City were most devoted to the woman’s
cause. She cited three instances that had
come within her personal experience where
prominent public men had made most perti-
nent statements in regard to this cause.
One of them was a remark by Cardinal
Gibbons before a meeting of clergymen in
France that the labor movement and the
movement for the advancement of women
must go on hand in hand, and that as soon as
that fact was recognized the solution of the
two problems would be reached. Another
was a statement by Prince Bismarck that if
the great government of Germany were to
survive, the women of the land must be-
come interested in politics. The speaker
also repeated a public utterance of one of
the great labor leaders of this country to
the effect that now that the women were
learning organization the labor question
would soon be settled. Mrs. Henrotin
then reviewed the history of woman’s or-
ganization, and the incidents that led to
the formation of the present federation.
She said that as women were naturally ad-
apted to the most inaggressive methods, she
chose education as her first step, and that
the development had reached a point now
that there was no woman’s club in America
where education, politics and religion could
not be discussed freely. Soon after the
educational feature was well advanced the
department clubs commenced to be formed
and many instances were cited, particularly
among the department clubs of Chicago and
Minnesota, showing the good they had ac-
complished. Federation, which is the
principle of modern civilization, naturally
followed local and state organization, and
the National Federation which commenced
with 30 clubs, now had a membership of
500 clubs. The speaker declared that the
federation in its liberty and freedom was the
greatest example of organization that the
world had ever seen. The women of Utah
were second only to those of Maine in em-
bracing the federation principle. Mrs.
Henrotin gave several amusing incidents
that had followed the department club work,
among them being the town and village
improvement associations, where the women
of these clubs taught the school children to
become interested in this work. She told
of one little girl who reported to her local
association that she had not been able to ac-
complish much herself but she had induced
her brother to cut the grass in their yard,
and a small boy reported that all he had
been able to do was to stop every man he
met and ask him not to spit on the side-
walks.
	One of the advantages of club life and
federation which Mrs. Henrotin point

[Column 3]
out was that it produced a strong, healthy 
social life and a spirit of true fellowship
which is not to be found in what is or-
dinarily known as society. It produced
a democracy among women which nothing
else could accomplish. The Woman’s
Federation had no one leader, for hundreds
of women were coming into the movement
daily and were giving their hearts to the
work and each would thus lead the other.
Mrs Henrotin closed her address by urging
her hearers to maintain the spirit of organ-
zation at all times.
	Mrs. Thatcher, the president of the Colo- 
rado Federation, then read an address in 
which she extended greetings and congratu-
lations to the women of Utah, and after re-
viewing the work that women had accom-
plished in her own state she extended a
cordial invitation to all present to attend the
coming sessions of the Federation in
Denver.
	Mrs. Gale, the vice-president of the
Colorado Federation, made a most amusing
address in which there were many good-
natured references to the work of the or-
ganization and the persons connected with
it. She apologized for not speaking at
some length by saying that as Mrs. Hen-
rotin had reviewed the work of the national
federation, and Mrs. Thatcher bad exhaust-
ed the subject of the Colorado federation,
and as Mrs. Platt who was to follow her
would talk of everything under the sun,
there was nothing left for her to say. Her
remarks related largely to the work of west-
ern women in general as compared with
that of their sisters east of the Mississippi.
She expressed the greatest pride in the
work accomplished by western women,
particularly those of Colorado and Utah.
	After another organ selection by Profes-
sor Radcliffe, Mrs. Platt, the president of
the Denver Woman’s club, delivered the
closing address of the evening and the num-
ber of bright, amusing stories that she
told in connection with her remarks were
appreciated by the audience. Her speech
was not confined entirely to the subject of
woman, but she had much to say on the
subject of man, among other things that
she wished to see the day come when man
could be taken into women’s clubs, but she
was afraid that there was only one way to
do this and that was like the story of the
New York flats where cruel-hearted land-
lords, no matter how badly they may want
to see their property rented, make the iron-
clad provision that no children shall be ad-
mitted. A little girl whose parents had
made many unsuccessful attempts to rent
a flat and had always been refused on ac- 
count of their child, finally saw another
little girl leaning out of the window of one
of the flats and in her amazement she asked
her how she ever got in there. The other
little girl replied that she was “borned”
in there.
	Mrs. Platt denied the existence of such
a being as the ‘‘new woman” and said
that the only thing new about her was her
club life and organization and the good she 
had accomplished by taking her proper 
place in life. Man need not fear that wo-
man would outstrip him in the race as he
had such a long start before woman com-
menced. Mrs. Platt argued that woman’s
work in the world for the advancement of
her own sex and the relief of distressed hu-
mauity could not destroy her sphere in the
home, and she urged her hearers to regard
home life in the same light that any good
man would regard it.


She dwelt at length on the spirit of
fellowship which club life and organiza-
tion produced among women. Mrs. Platt’s
remarks drew forth continued applause at
the close and her hearers desisted only after
she arose and told them that unless they
did so she would tell them another story.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Katherine Hickerson
who departed this life April 2, 1897, at Kanosh,
aged eighty years, one month and twenty-nine
days. She was the daughter of William and
Malinda Hickerson was born in Tennessee Feb.
3, 1817, came to Utah in 1856 and was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, Aug. 1857. She was first married to Sam-
son Miles by whom she had eight children, one
son and three daughters still living to mourn her
departure. She was afterwards sealed in plural
marriage to Thomas Woolsey, and lived
for a number of years in his family. She
was a faithful member in the Relief Soc ety of
the Kanosh ward and was always willing to do
her duty.
	Whereas, we acknowledge her loss, and readi-
ness at all times to give a helping hand, therefore
be it
	RESOLVED, That we sympathize with her fam-
ly and friends. Be it further
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be recorded
in th Relief Society records, and a copy sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
					ALICE RAPPLEYE, Sec. 
Kanosh, April 21, 1897.
MARY C. BLADEN.
	On the 12th day of April another of our, belov-
ed sisters and co-workers was called from our
midst, Sister Mary C. Bladen, a pioneer of this
place and a member of the Relief Society since
its first organization
	Sister Bladen was born in Arlshire, England,
and became a member of this Church in that
country. She emigrated to Utah with her hus-
band, Thomas Bladen, in the year 1851, coming
direct to Cedar City. For several years Sister
Bladen acted as teacher and afterwards as coun-
selor to Sister Jones (lately deceased;) she was
loved and respected by all who became acquaint-
ed with her. Though having lived to the age of
eighty-three years she was very active and al-
ways cheerfully engaged in administering to the
comforts of those around her until within two
weeks previous to her death. Her children, five
of whom are residents of this place, were with
her at the time of her death; and though we all
realize they have lost a loving mother and wise
counselor, yet we know it is her gain, and her
loving words of comfort cherished in their mem-
ory will be as a guiding star in their course through
life.
	Sister Bladen has lived to see quite a number
of great-grandchildren, her family connections
being very numerous. We feel to sincerely sym-
pathize with them in their bereavement.
			J.C. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
SISTER ISABELLA PRATT PRICE.
	In, memory of Sister Isabella Pratt Price who
departed this life February 25, 1897 She was
the daughter of George and Margaret Nelson
Pratt and was born in Armbey, Yorkshire, Eng-
land, October 26, 1824. She was baptized and
confirmed a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, April 8, 1845, at York-
shire, England.
	Sister Price joyfully received the Gospel but
could not understand the principle of gathering,
thought the Lord would save her in England
without the necessity of going to America. After
making the subject a matter of prayer, it was re-
vealed to her in a dream, the plan of salvation
for the Saints in the Latter days; after that she
had no more doubt about the gathering.
	Apostle Erastus Snow on his way to Denmark
on a mission preached in Bradford. She with
some others sought a blessing at his hands, he
said in part that she should go to Mount Zion and
be a savior in her father’s family, all of which has
been fulfilled; a few months after the blessing
was given she left England in the ship James
Pennel, October 3, 1850, to g ther with the Saints
in the gathering place appointed by the Lord.
	She was very faithful in the performance of her
Temple work, doing all she could f r her relatives

[Column 2]
and friends, and she was very anxious to continue
the work had her life been spared.
	She was a devoted mother, teaching her child-
ren the laws of the Gospel from their earliest
youth. She leaves three sons and two daughters
each of these faithful members in the Church,
numerous grand-children, relatives and friends
to mourn her loss.
	She obeyed all the principles of the Gospel as far
as they were revealed to her. She was a mother
to the motherless, performing a noble part. All
through her long illness she was tenderly cared
for by her son, Brigham F. and his wife Sister
Margaret Price
	Our dear sister was a faithful member of the
Relief Society. She was always in attendance
whenever her health would permit. She was a
very fluent, intelligent speaker. She was firm in
her convictions for the advancement of women, a
supporter of the EXPONENT and all good works
in that direction.
	She has finished her work in this probation
and gone to meet those of her loved ones whom
she has officiated for in the Temple of the Lord.
	The funeral services were held at the family
residence, the house was filled to overflowing
with sympathetic relatives and friends. Bishop
J. C. Hanson and Counselors were present; many
consoling remarks were made by the presiding
officers of the ward, each bore testimony to the
faithfulness of Sister Price. Beautiful flowers
covered the casket, the hymn “O my Father,”
was sung by the choir. A large cortege followed
the remains to the ward cemetery. “Blessed
are the dead that die in the Lord for their reward
is sure.”
			ELIZABETH HILL, Pres’t.
			FRANCES H. HANSON, Sec.


[Column 1]
R.S. REPORTS.

SUMMIT STAKE.
	MINUTES of the annual Conference of
Summit Stake Relief Society held in Hoyts-
ville meeting house, May 4th 1897, com-
mencing at 10 o’clock a. m., President
Mary J. Atwood presiding. Meeting
opened by singing “The happy day has
rolled on;” prayer by Elder James Wools-
tenhulme; singing “Sweet is the work
my God my King.” Present on the stand
were Counselors Ann Cluff and Ruth M.
Pack, President W. W. Cluff of the Stake,
President C. Y. Pack and others. Minutes
of previous Conference read and accepted,
roll called and nine presidents responded.
	President Atwood said “I am pleased to
say we have the annual reports from every
branch in the Stake, we number seventeen
branches, three of them being in Wyom-
ing.” Statistical and financial reports read,
also the Stake report, verbal reports were
given by the several presidents all the
branches being in good order and the sis-
ters that attended to their duties were unit-
ed and readily responded to every call and
were striving to live their religion, several
of the branches being small and the mem-
bers living far apart.
	President Atwood said, “I am well
pleased with the reports, and if I should
judge by your looks I should say you all
feel well. I love to see sisters feel well, it
shows you are doing your duty and by
doing right we have the good spirit to
help us.”
	President Elmina S. Taylor and Sister
Emma Goddard, one of her aids in the
Y. L. M. I. A, have arrived to attend the
Conference of that association tomorrow.
They will address us this afternoon, this
Conference will adjourn until 2 o’clock.”
Singing “Jesus once of humble birth.”
Benediction by Bishop Sargent of Hoyts-
ville.
	AFTERNOON SESSION. Opened by sing-
ing “Joy to the world” prayer by Bishop
Stephen Walker; singing “All hail the
glorious day.” Counselor Phillips reported

[Column 2]
the Oakley branch as all feeling interested 
in the work, had only been organized two
years.
	Counselor Ruth Pack said, “I feel
thankful so many of us have gathered here
today and I don’t feel like some of my sis-
ters, glad when this meeting is over. I am
grateful for this privilege of meeting with
my sisters, it does us good to talk of the
goodness of God and the Prophet Joseph
whose blood was spilt for this cause. I
have seen many mighty works done in this
Church, all the promises are to the faithful,
all things are for our good. The Lord will
open up a way for you if you are faithful
and come before Him in humble prayer.
May we ever be found faithful is my prayer
in the name of Jesus.”
	Counselor Ann Cluff said, “It is not my 
forte to talk and have not met with my sis-
ters of late, my duties in life have not been
such that I could leave home. The weak
parts are what we want to watch and try to
overcome them and build up a character
for ourselves and live so the world will be
better by our living here, praying the Lord
to bless us.”
	President Elmina S. Taylor said, “When
I left home this morning I did not know
you were holding a Relief Society Confer-
ence here today, we came to attend the
Young Ladies Conference tomorrow. I
have always been associated with the Re-
lief Society. I came to these valleys in
1849, and have been associated with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Marinda Hyde, M. I.
Horne and others, have traveled thousands
and thousands of miles with them. The
Prophet Joseph turned the key of knowl- 
edge for women; he made it possible
for us to meet together and speak of the
principles of the Gospel. I say God bless
this noble band of sisters that administer to -
the needy. God is not a respecter of per-
sons but will bless all. What kind of wo-
men ought we to be? We should teach
our children the true principles and warn
them of the dangers that surround them.
It is just as much a duty for a father to
help make home happy as for a mother; it
takes a father and a mother to make a
pleasant home. If our children go astray
they will have to suffer and pay the penalty.
Children should obey their parents, they
know what is for you best and have a de-
sire to do you good, you should listen to
their counsel.”
	Sister Goddard spoke at some length;
advised daughters to love and cherish their
parents while they live, aid their mothers
in the cares of home and make her happy.
Mothers should impress the true principles
of the Gospel on the minds of these sons
and daughters that have been born under
the new and everlasting covenant, and
those that go astray from the paths of vir-
tue will have to suffer and pay the penalty
of wrong doing.
	Sister Julia Woolstenhulme, Celestia Y.
Pack and Laura C. Pack spoke of the great 
blessings the saints enjoy and of the en-
couragement we receive to go on and do
what is right that we may gain that ex-
altation we have set out for.
	President W. W. Ciuff said he was truly
pleased with the good instructions we had
had today. “We have heard the report
of all the branches, it shows the good th
isters are doing. Some say I flatter th
isters, I don’t call it flattery to encourag
he sisters in their labors. I say thes
hings to show my appreciation of the


(Column 1)
good work, I don’t think we appreciate these
things enough. I don’t know when I
have been so well pleased as I was this
morning in hearing the Stake Relief Society
report, it shows you are alive to your duties
and I love to give you credit for what you
do. I ask God to bless the sisters that you
may continue in this great work. I enjoy
gathering with the sisters in their confer-
ences and I ask the Lord to bless you.”
	President M. J. Atwood said, “I have
enjoyed myself in this Conference, we have
been blessed in having Sisters Taylor and
Goddard with us and I hope we may treas-
ure up their counsel and be benefited by it.
I am glad President Cluff appreciates what
we have done, it gives us courage to go on
and do better. This Conference will now
adjourn to meet at Peoa the first Tuesday
in September, 1897.” Singing, “An
angel from on high.” Benediction by
Bishop Samuel F. Atwood of Kamas.
MARY L. WOOLSTENHULME, Sec.
UTAH STAKE.
(Concluded.)
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Opened by sing-
ing “Hark the song of jubilee;” prayer by -
Brother William Bromley; singing “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
	Stake Counselor Marilla Daniels desired
the Spirit of the Lord to attend her in her
remarks as also the spirit of the hymn just,
sung which was sung at the dedication of
the Kirtland Temple. “Much has been
spoken of this morning in regard to silk
and I hope the sisters will take hold of that
industry and make it a success, which we
cannot do without a united effort.” Stated
that a lunch would be furnished the sisters
at our next Conference that they might re-
main together. “We also propose to hold
an Officers, meeting at 10 a. m. same day
that will assist us to work in unity. My
earnest desire is that the Spirit of God may
attend us in all our labors.”
	Sister Zina Young told of her reminiscen-
ces of Sister Daniels when a child, said “I
am thankful she is still in the same faith. We
come to Zion to receive strength and to be
productive of good to each other, I rejoice
with my sisters who keep in the pathwalk
of the Gospel. These mountain vales
flourish under the priesthood of God, were'
that withdrawn desolation would follow;
when I see the different organizations pro-
gressing it rejoices my soul.
	Stake Counselor Diantha Billing, felt
truly thankful her lot was cast among the
this people. “When I see Sister Young
my mind reverts back, and through the
grace of God I am still with you. The
Prophet Joseph said ‘Keep with the main
channel of the stream and you will not
apostatize,’ and may we remain in that
course is my prayer. 
	Sister Zina Y. Card thought if ministering
angels were upon the earth, the Relief
Society sisters were those angels; said their
mission was to relieve the poor, tend the
sick and save souls. “Brother Nuttall
has been talking about your systematizing
your business, he has authority from the
Priesthood to do so. She thought that we
should sustain our EXPONENT more, being
our only woman’s paper, spoke at some
length upon home manufacture and showed
we were at fault and against our own in-
terests in not supporting them; to talk of
these things is of as much importance as to
speak of heavenly things, the Lord is com-
ing upon the earth and we should make it
beautiful by our own handiwork. "Sisters

(Column 2)
remember the words of my mother, and fit
yourselves for a celestial kingdom.”
	Brother Nuttall said “If you will let me
know when you get a piece of land upon
which to build I will come and attend to
your deeds, do not employ lawyers, I have
proper forms specially prepared for this
purpose; your Trustees are not elected
every four years as are your Directors, but
remain. Many things come to my mind,
but a meeting will be called so I can ex-
plain, I am one of you in this Society by
permission of Sister Young. The officers
should make a strong effort to attend these
meetings and conferences.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said “It is inspiring
to see so many present, and of the young
sisters. Some of our young people who
have acquired the so called advanced edu-
cation, criticise the old-fashioned sisters in
their composition and grammar; I think a
practical education profitable, the Relief
Society is a high school and the experiences
of many older sisters is more than school-
ing, where the sisters have acquired many
things as well as speaking publicly. All
grandmothers are not in their dotage, as
evidenced by Sister Card.” The speaker
recommended the braiding of straw and
the raising of silk as being remunerative
employment; home made articles were
very much commented upon at the World’s
Fair and the ladies in the East thought
them very creditable. President Young
was a great advocate of home industries,
manufacture your own goods is the watch-
word now. Said that it showed a lack
of interest not to take the EXPONENT,
many erroneous ideas are refuted through
that paper by our missionaries, particularly
when assailed about the women of Utah,
many copies are sent away with this object
in view. The Book of Poems will soon be
out, “I suppose the sisters think it has
been a long time since it was talked of.”
	Sister Ellen Clarke of American Fork, in
her remarks said she had worked energeti-
cally in silk and her daughter had done
considerable reeling.
	Bishop Robinson recommended home-
made goods, he wore no other when he
could get them. “I feel proud of the
sisters’ remarks and especially upon home-
raised silk.
	President Mary John made some closing
remarks, said we should subscribe for the
EXPONENT, and take an active part in rais-
ing silk.
	Sister Zina D. H Young said “Sisters
take the Exponent between you if you
think you cannot singly. President Young
gave this mission to Sister Wells and there-
fore she is desirous of continuing it, al-
though she is not financially benefited.”'
	Meeting closed by singing “We thank
Thee O, God for a prophet.” Benediction
by Brother Thomas Barratt.
		M. A. TILL, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Special Excursion to Northern Utah, Idaho and
Oregon, Saturday, June 19th, 1897.
VIA THE
Oregon Short Line
At the Following Low Rates:

TO			RATE	LIMIT	TO				RATE	LIMIT
Brigham		$12.25	15 days	Market Lake		$10.35	30 days
Collluston	3.00		15	”	Dubois			12.05	30	”
Mendon		3.25		15	”	Beaver Canon		12.90	30	”
Logan		3.50		15	”	American Falls	8.00		30	”
Smithfield	3.75		15	”	Minidoka		9.00		30	”
Richmond	4.00		15	”	Shoshone		10.00	30	”
Franklin		4.25		15	”	Bellevue			12.75	30	”
Preston		4.50		15	”	Halley			13.00	30	”
Oxford		4.75		15	”	Mountain Home	14.50	30	”
McCammon	5.75		15	”	Nampa			18.25	30	”
Bancroft		7.25		30	”	Boise City		19.00	30	”
Soda Springs	8.05		30	”	Caldwell			18.50	30	”
Montpelier	9.60		30	”	Ontario			20.00	30	”
Pocatello		7.00		15	”	Payette			20.25	30	”
Blackfoot	8.20		30	”	Weiser			21.00	30	”
Idaho Falls	9.50		30	”	Huntington		22.50	30	”

	Transit limit of five (5) days in each direction will be
allowed on tickets bearing final limit of thirty (30) days.
Other tickets will be limited to continuous passage in each
direction.
	Trains for Cache Valley and intermediate points will
leave at 8:00 a. m. and 7.00 p. m., and for all other points,
at 7:00 p. m.
.S W. ECCLES,			D. E. BURLEY,
General Traffic Manager. 		Gen’l. Pass. & Tkt. Agt.

[image of a shield]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE.

[beside the shield]
The
People’s
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicago,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City		7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver						7:00 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City			3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver				3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK,
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
					     Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
	H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15 & JULY 1, 1897.	NO 2-3.


CONTENTS:
	A Heart of Gold—Clio. A Pioneer Woman
honored—Mary Ann House. Internationa
Kindergarten Union. La ies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting—Zina H. Bull, Sec’y. In Memoriam.
R.S And P.A. Reports.

	Editorial:—Old Folks Meeting. The Pioneer
Jubilee. A Pioneer Woman’s Birthday. Mrs.
Garrett’s Party. Two Pleasant Parties. Editori-
al Notes.

	Poetry:—Victoria The Great—Alfred Austin.
A Sonnet— Ruth M. Fox.


VICTORIA THE GREAT.

POEM BY ALFRED AUSTIN, POET LAURE-
ATE.

	NEW YORK, June 16.—In its forthcom-
ing issue, the Independent, under the head-
line “Victoria the Great,” will publish the
following poem written for that paper by
Alfred Austin, poet laureate of England:

The dew was on the summer lawn,
	The roses bloomed the woods were green,
When forth there came as fresh as dawn.
	A maiden with majestic mien.

They girt a crown about her brow,
	They placed a scepter in her hand,
And loud rang out a nation’s vow,
	“God spare the lady of the land.”

And now the cuckoo calls once more,
	And again June’s roses blow,
And round her throne her people pour.
	Recalling sixty years ago.

And all the goodly days between,
	Glory and sorrow, love and pain,
The wife and mother, widowed queen,
	The loftiest as the longe t reign.

She shared her subjects’ bane and bliss,
	Welcomed the wise, the base withstood,
And taught by her clear life it is
	True greatness to be good.

Yet while for peace she wrought and prayed
	She bore the trident, wore the helm,
And mistress of the main she made
	An empire of her island realm.

So gathering now from near from far,
	From rule where never sets the day,
From Southern Cross a d Northern Star.
	Her people lift their hearts and pray.

Longer and longer may she reign,
	As through a summer night serene,
Whence day doth never wholly wane;
	God spare and bless our empress-queen.


A HEART OF GOLD.

BY CLIO.
	A FAIR young girl stood at the garden
gate at the twilight hour of the 4th day of
July, 1857. She was dressed in holiday
attire, for there had been a celebration and
at that date, no such event ever occurred
without the assistance of Miss Grace Ali-
son.
	The expression on her face was rather

[Column 2]
an anxious one, as she glanced restlessly,
first in one direction, then in another. Sud-
denly her blue eyes brightened, as she
caught sight of a horseman in the distance,
instantly followed by a look of impatience
as she saw he was not alone.
	“Oh, dear!” she sighed, “why will
John associate with those Adams boys.
Everybody knows they are the worst boys
in town, yet he will persist in befriending
them. It puts me out of all patience.”
	By this time the horsemen were nearly
opposite where Grace was standing. They
came along at full gallop, whooping at the
top of their voices, curvetting here and
there and cutting all sorts of antics. They
did not see the girl until they were close
upon her, or it is quite likely they would
have exhibited better behavior. As it was
they drew up their horses sharply, bowed
in a shamefaced manner, and made out as
though they would stop and engage in con-
versation. Grace looked straight at them,
without a sign of recognition, and as they
approached, turned on her heel, and walk-
ed away toward the house.
	“Humph!” exclaimed Joe, the eldest of
the Adams’, “proud as Lucifer, ain’t she?
S’pose she’s ashamed of us. All right
Miss Alison, when I attempt to speak to
you again, it will be a long time from now.
Come Jack lets go down to the Square.”
Away he galloped, followed closely by his
brother, neither noticing, in their headlong
haste, that John Heplar did not follow
them. That young gentleman, complete-
ly sobered by the cool treatment they had 
just received, rode slowly away in an op-
posite direction. Several times he reined
in his horse, on the point of turning back
and seeking an interview with Grace; but
as often he changed his mind, being asham-
ed of his conduct and afraid of her scorn.
	It had been his intention to invite Grace
to the party; but he had fallen in with his
evil genii who had towed him about all
day, until they had made him half drunk
and wholly miserable. He resolved now
to stay at home, and not show himself at
the party at all.
	He flung himself down upon his bed, but
he could not sleep. The demon of jealousy
took possession of him; he felt that he
must know if Grace had gone, and who
had been her escort. If it was that Charlie
Benson,—his blood surged hotly through
his veins at the bare thought, and he felt
as if he should smother. He arose quickly,
put on his hat, and started for the scene of
merry-making.
	He looked eagerly among the crowd
congregated under the great bowery. Yes
sure enough, there she was, and dancing,
though he could not deny that she looked
grave and troubled. She was not dancing
with Charlie Benson, much to his relief,
but with an elder, married brother. He sat
down in a corner to watch, and nurse his
misery, neither occupation proving very
agreeable. He sought later for an oppor-
tunity to speak to Grace, but was not suc-
cessful. She seemed deliberately to shun
him, and put obstacles in the way of a
reconciliation. He went home miserable

[Column 3]
enough, and continued in that condition
for several days. When he thought he
could endure it no longer, he summoned
all his courage, went boldly to her father’s
house, and asked to see her.
	Miss Alison received her guest in the
stateliest and coolest manner compatible
with good breeding. It was quite evident
that poor John had offended deeply the
girl who held the first place in his affec-
tions. Being somewhat prepared for his
present reception from previous experience, 
he was not so abashed as one would ex-
pect and being also courageous in many
ways, he at once plunged headlong into 
the subject which had brought him there.
	“Grace,” he said eagerly, “I am
ashamed of my conduct on the Fourth. I
know I have offended you, and have come 
to ask your pardon.”
	“And if I grant it,” she said, in a cool,
even tone, made so by a great effort,
“What guarantee have I that the same
thing will not be re-enacted on the very
next holiday. You have been ashamed so
many times John Heplar, have offended
and been forgiven so often, that it is like the 
rehearsal of an oft-repeated play, and
amounts to about the same result—
nothing.”
	“You are hard on a fellow,” he mutter- 
ed, “I own I acted foolishly, but I did no
harm, unless to myself.” 
	“No harm,” exclaimed the girl, “do
you consider it is no harm to associate with
those who profane the name of their
Maker; who make demons of that 
which should be second only to the angels;
who break the hearts of their parents, their
sisters and wives; and above all, who set
such a perilous example for my little
brother to follow? For shame, John Hep-
lar.”
	He sat looking at her stupidly as she
poured out this torrent of hot words. It
was an unusual thing for Grace Alison to
express herself so forcibly, being noted for
her equable temper, and the event seemed 
to daze him. When she had finished he
answered quietly.
	“Well Grace, I grant there is truth in
what you say, especially the example part, 
though I own I have never thought of it in 
that light before. I remember I promised
you to forsake my old companions, and I 
have not done so. In relation to the other
matter, I have not been able to see through
it, as you predicted. I have tried your 
plan faithfully, and must say that I am as
much in the dark as ever. You and I
might just as well give up that scheme, 
and try to be happy without so much re-
ligion thrown in."
	“Do you mean to say,” said Grace,
slowly and with an effort, “that you have
thrown aside all hope of being able to see
and embrace the faith of your father and
mother—of your staunch—faithful—father,
and your brave—devoted mother?”
	“I am sorry to say that is my lamentable
condition,” he replied sadly.
	“Then John Heplar,” and her voice
trembled a little, and a mist obscured her
sight, “We may just as well say good bye


[Column 1]
also to our hopes and wishes regarding
each other. You know my belief, and I
cannot—dare not, act contrary to my con-
victions.”
	“Grace, dear Grace, why will you
cleave to these deluded notions? Why in-
sist on making yourself and me unhappy
from a mere whim?”
	“Whim! I hope and pray that you
may some day know the value and force of
the whims which now separate us. Until
that time comes, John Heplar, I will say
goodbye, and when we meet hereafter it
will be as acquaintances only, or as strang-
ers, as you please.”
	Before he could realize it, she fled from the
room and he was left alone. Only as he
left the house did he begin to realize the
depth of the gulf between himself and his
love. Yet even while he cursed the luck
which had prompted him to broach the ill-
fated subject of their marriage to Grace
while in her unusual temper, he was not
without hope of relenting on her part.
Heretofore she had been so kind and chari-
table, even chiding him for his short-
comings in a manner not the least objec-
tionable to him, that he could not believe
she would long hold out in her present
resolution. He was not much of a student
of humankind, and had not yet learned
that the mildest external appearance may
cover a nature deep and determined, especi-
ally when based upon convictions of right.
	John Heplar was of a peculiar disposi-
tion. He had many odd ways for one so
young. Prominent among these was a
habit of talking to himself. What other
people merely thought, he generally spoke
aloud. A rather promising sign, you will
think, indicating an openness of character
incompatible with hypocrisy or deceit. Well
we will see.
	As he walked along the lonely highway,
absorbed in his troubles, he might have
met his dearest friend without any sign of
recognition. He looked straight before
him, at nothing in particular, and thus
soliloquized:
	“Well I’ve done it now, or that’s what
it looks like! I wonder if I ever can get
myself straightened out in her opinion.
May be she’ll get over it if I try to behave
myself in the future.”—Then after a pause,
his feelings change.
	“I wish somebody would tell me why it
is so many good fathers and mothers have
such beastly children. Look at me now,
for instance,” addressing an imaginary
personage beyond the horizon, “my father
and mother walked a thousand miles over
the rough prairies, and toted me along into
the bargain, all for the sake of their
religion. They left good homes and sur-
roundings to come out to this God-forsaken
region, because they thought they ought 
to. To me the religion and the country
has always been detestable. They won’t
even drink tea and coffee because they
think its all wrong, while to me everything
that is forbidden in their code, is just what
most desire.”
	His ruminations were here cut short by
the weight of a hand on his shoulder and a
cheery voice in his ear. He turned quick-
ly with an exclamation of surprise and a
frown on his brow, which changed to the
ghost of a smile when he discovered who it
was.
	“Why, Brother Harper, how you start-
led me.”
	“No wonder, you were in such a brown

[Column 2]
study there was no awakening you except
by extreme measures. But tell me my
boy, what is your trouble? I could not
get by you, so have heard what you have
been telling yourself, for which I ask
pardon.”
	“I will, and may be you can help me to
straighten myself out. I always liked
you; you don’t seem so down on boys like
me as—the bishop—and some others.”
	“I have a little more patience perhaps
having been a sort of ruffian myself in my
young days, but believe me, none has the
interest of the boys more at heart than the
Bishop.”
	“Well may be so, but any how, I feel
more free to talk with you. You see, Brother
Harper, I’m made of wild stuff somehow.
I want to be good and I try as hard as I
can, but once in a while the old nick in me
will come out, and then I get on a tear,
and the dickens is to pay generally.”
	“And you want to know why it is that
the good people in our Church so often
have wild tares in their harvest of children?
Well, I’ll tell you what I think about it,
Brother Heplar. You see these are the
Last Days, that we read so much about in
the Scriptures. Satan is alive to the fact
that his kingdom is tottering to its fall,
that he is on his last legs, in fact, and you
may be assured that he is putting in good
time trying to frustrate the plans of Jesus
Christ, whom he hates. That is his busi-
ness, he is merely paying strict attention
to it, so I don’t know as he is so much to
blame after all. If we would profit by his
example in that, it might be better for us.
Well, you see, he has tried it again and
again on the fathers and mothers. They
have withstood every attack, so he has
turned his attention to the children, who
are not so well grounded in the faith, there-
fore more liable to be deceived. And the
more promising the child, the more deter-
mined are his efforts to conquer him. Oh,
my dear boy, were the veil taken from be-
fore our eyes, we would be appalled by
what is in the unseen world around us.”
	“I believe what you say, Brother Har-
per, for I have felt these influences. But
what can a fellow do? If he has no natur-
al goodness, but is purely mean and con-
temptible, how can he fight against nature
and the influences too?”
	“If he relies upon his own strength, he
will certainly fail. Satan fears no man on
earth, in and of himself. Happily for us
we are in possession of something by which
he can be controlled.”
	“And that is—”
	“ There are three things which he can-
not withstand, God the Father, His Son,
Jesus Christ, and the Holy Priesthood.
This latter we have with us, and if we
honor it, it is our safeguard from the attacks
of evil. Probably I have lectured you
long enough, but I want to give you a
word of advice. If you really want to do
better, and be a good and useful man, go
and ask the Lord to help you. You will
not be disappointed in Him.”
	“That was Grace’s counsel and I have
tried, but Brother Harper, I guess I am
too wicked, for I hav’nt felt any change.”
	“Tut, tut, boy, remember that though
our sins be as scarlet, yet they are made
white in the blood of the Lamb. Try
again my boy, and don’t give up trying; it
will all come right in the end. Goodbye,
and if I can do anything for you at any
time don’t be afraid to ask.” 	And with a

[Column 3]
hearty hand shake the Bishop’s first
Counselor turned in at his own gate.
(Continued.)


WOMAN S EXPONENT


A PIONEER WOMAN HONORED.

	THE members of the Grantsville Relief
Society gave a surprise picnic party to
Stake President Mary Ann Hunter in their
own new meeting house, Thursday June
17, 1897. There were fifty-seven mem-
bers present. After everything was in
readiness her daughter, Sister Jenus
Anderson, went after her mother. Her
surprise on entering the building is not
easy to describe, as she thought she was
coming to a meeting to talk about fencing
our lot. After the greetings were over
President Rose Hammond called the atten-
tion of the sisters and meeting was opened
by singing, “We thank Thee O God for a
prophet;” prayer by Sister Mary Ann
House; singing “As the dew from heaven
distilling.” President Hammond then de-
livered the speech of welcome.
	President Hunter responded, thanking
the sisters for their kindness, said she was
not aware she had so many friends. Re-
ferred to her travels across the plains with
her child in 1847, while her husband was
in the Mormon Battalion. Said her heart
was too full to express her feelings.
	Sisters Louisa Hale and Mary Ann
House made a few appropriate remarks,
followed by vocal and instrumental music.
The company then sat down to tables
spread with everything eatable that heart
could desire. The evening was spent in
recalling old times, in conversation inter-
spersed with singing and music, all
being well paid for coming together. Bene-
diction by Emily J Anderson.
	MARY ANN HOUSE.

	P. S. A poem written as a tribute to
Sister Hunter by Brother A. L. Hale was
read during the exercises but it is impossi-
ble at this time to publish it. The editor
of the EXPONENT wishes also to congratu-
late Sister Hunter and greatly appreciates
her labors for the sisters in the interest of
the Relief Society, and as a mother in
Israel. We are glad to know the sisters
in Grantsville have succeeded in getting a
hall of their own, it is another proof of
their thrift and energy as a Society. May
our Heavenly Father bless and prosper the
sisters in all righteous endeavors and in
all their works of charity and moral and
spiritual excellence. —E. B. W.


AMONG the great mercantile establish-
ments in Omaha only one is under the
supervision of a woman, Mrs. Jennie Ben-
son. For nine years Mrs. Benson has con-
ducted this enterprise, each year enlarging
her business until today it is next to the
largest store in the city. She is an Omaha
woman and employs only women. She
does her own purchasing, making trips to
Chicago and New York, Mrs. Benson is
on the sunny side of 40, and, in addition to
being one of the leading merchants of the
city, is a society favorite and one of the
handsomest women in Omaha. She finds
time from her business duties to give con-
siderable attention to literature and to soci-
ety. Altogether she is regarded as a most
extraordinary woman. All of the immense
capital she is now handling is the result of
her own labors.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SONNET. 

How grand how beautiful is old age!
The crowning glory of a life well spent,
That looking back can see no rent,
But noble effort wr t on ev’ry page;
Truly it is a noble heritage,
That lovely,gentle grace which time has lent.
Revealing the softest beauty of each lineament.
’Tis fitting that to such a worthy sage,
The young should come for wisdom,
Those of riper years for love and sympathy,
The burdened and oppressed for consolation,
The poor and needy for sweet charity,
Oh, what a glorious consummation !
When the twilight cometh on.
							RUTH M. FOF.
	Written for Sister Maria W. Wilcox' birthday,
June, 17 1897.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL KINDERGARTEN
UNION. 

	THE International Kindergarten Union
met in St. Louis, April 21 22, and 23.
There were about 300 visiting and 300 resi-
dent teachers present making in all an enthu-
isastic gathering. Three sessions a day
were held, this including a reception given
by the St. Louis Kindergartners to visit-
ing teachers.
	The regular session did not take place
until Tuesday, but those fortunate enough
to be in St. Louis on Monday had the
pleasure of hearing the Baroness Bulow
read a paper on Froebel’s principles.—This
was of much value, as the Baroness’ aunt
was often quoted.
	The first day of the session of the I. K.
U. opened Tuesday afternoon and was set
apart for the discussion of the Relation of
the Kindergarten to the Home. Mrs. J.
N. Crouse of the Chicago Kindergarten
College was the first speaker; her talk was
practical and to the point. The necessity
of intelligent co-operation of Kindergarten
and home was urged.
	Miss Putnam of Chicago was to have
had a paper on “Freedom and Law in the
Home,” but was absent, also Miss Fitts of
Brooklyn who was to read a paper on
“Freedom and Law in the Kindergarten.”
	Prof. Louis Soldon, superintendent of
the St. Louis public schools, delivered the
address of welcome Tuesday evening, Miss
Lucy Wheelock President of the I. K. U.
responding. This was followed by a paper
on the ‘‘Relation of the Kindergarten to
Higher Education;” Col. Parker closing
the exercises with one of his enthusiastic
talks on ‘‘The Ideal School.” He said
when a girl or boy is through school we
should not ask how much have you
learned, but how much of a man or a wo-
man are you.
	Wednesday morning was devoted to a
business meeting in which various commit-
tees reported, also delegates were heard
from. There were representatives present
from Japan, Honolulu, New Orleans, New
York, Utah and many other states. It
was decided to hold the next meeting in
Philadelphia the time being changed from
May to February.
	The afternoon was devoted to a Froebel
birthday celebration. A reception had
been arranged by the resident Kindergar-
tners; hand shaking, marches and games,
followed with a paper by the Baroness
Bulow on the life of Froebel, after which
dainty refreshments were served.
	The drawing teachers met with the

[Column 2]
Kindergartners in the evening and were
gratified to hear such speakers as Paterson
Dubois of Philadelphia, editor of the Sun-
day School Times, followed by James L.
Hughes who spoke on Froebel and his
work. Prof. Hughes emphasized the fact
that the child developes as did the race by
slow stages. He said that was often over-
looked by parents and educators and much
injury was done the child; he also dwelt
on the careful training of the instincts of the
child, leading and guiding but not forcing
him in his mental growth. He dwelt
especially on the instinct of activity and
the care with which this should be guided
and led in the right direction.
	Thursday morning was devoted to re-
ports from Committees and the election of
officers, the old officers being re-elected.
Dr. Krohn, of the Child Study Monthly,
gave an address in the afternoon on the
results of child study. Several other
papers were given along this line of work,
Mrs. Hughes of Toronto closing with a
warning to Kindergartners not to take too
much of this work into the Kindergarten
as it kills the spirit.
	St. Louis the mother of the public school
Kindergartens in America has good cause
for her pride in her 68 public school
Kindergartens and her 300 teachers.
	With such a leader and trainer at the
head as Miss Mary McCullough what else
could one expect? Her earnestness and
interest in the work must influence all
who came in contact with her.
	The majority of Kindergartens have two
sessions a day with an enrollment in each
session, ranging in different Kindergartens,
from one hundred to one hundred and fifty.
Each child pays fifty cents a term for ten
weeks for material, and this reduces the
expenses and necessitates only an expen-
diture of room and salary. The salaries
range from twenty-five dollars to seventy
dollars, experienced teachers receiving the
latter. The practical work is good and
shows the result of experienced teachers.
	The only objection to these Kindergar-
tens is that children are not permitted to
enter early enough, the age being limited
to six years, but a movement is on foot to
enter them earlier.
A. C.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday May 27, 1897, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “ Once more
we come before our God;” prayer by Sis-
ter Agnes M. Jones, singing “Welcome
best of all good meetings;” minutes of
previous meeting read and accepted.
	President Horne felt glad to be with us
today, and was sure those who stayed
away were the losers. Heard a married
man say he did not want his wife to give
up her public duties for they made her a
better woman. No one can take a bless-
ing away from us which we earn, therefore
we should be comforted, for God is just.
Said we should be kind to one another and
spoke on charity. We should always be
humble and if we injure any one go to that
person and make it right, or if any one in-
jures us, to do the same; by doing this we
place ourselves in the hands of the Lord;
also we are doing our duty. It is har-
boring unpleasant and unkind things which

[Column 2]
makes people unhappy. Prayed the Lord
to bless us this afternoon.
	A sister in the congregation bore a
strong testimony. Sister Sebeck felt thank-
ful for the good counsel and teachings of
Sister Horne. Spoke on forgiveness.
	Sister Brixen felt she must speak of
God’s goodness to her and testified God
heard and answered prayers. Said how
blessed we were in having the Priesthood,
we felt this more when there was sickness:
	Sister Mary Hanson told her experience
in the Church and bore her testimony.
Sister Morris felt the testimony of truth
burning within her heart, felt sorry
when she heard the young people make
light of anything sacred and felt sorry to
see so few here today
	A sister in the congregation testified the
Lord heard and answered prayers, spoke of
her daughter who was not in the Church,
and how she prayed to the Lord over it.
She heard a voice say to her, “Your de-
sire shall be granted,” and it was, her
daughter joined the Church afterwards.
	Sister Wright said she tried to always
arrange her work so nothing would inter-
fere with these Saturday meetings, made
some excellent remarks.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said every time she
attended these meetings she had a feast and
she felt thankful for them. Said some of
her friends tried to persuade her to go
Saturday afternoon to the ‘‘Grand’’ to the
matinee, but she told them of these meet-
ings and how much more she enjoyed them
than the Theatre. Exhorted the sisters to
be awake to their duties, said it was the
little trials that were the hardest to bear,
for larger ones we could round up our
shoulders and bear them. “ It is the little
foxes that spoil the vines.”
	Sister Clara C. Cannon felt she was in-
deed a blessed woman in having a testi-
mony of the Gospel. Spoke of a manifest-
ation she had once while in trouble, a very
bright light came into her room and it was
this that gave her courage and strength.
	Sister Mary E. Kimball said she had
had a testimony for fifty years and knew
her Redeemer lived. Felt today was the
time for us to be diligent and zealous said
she loved everything that was good and
pure and desired to always do her duty.
Referred to some sayings of Brother Heber
C. Kimball’s.
	Sister E. B. Wells felt there was a
great deal of missionary work for the wo-
men and that the women were spreading
the Gospel. Felt the Lord was perfectly
competent and willing to help us with all
our trials, made some beautiful remarks.
Spoke of the Exponent and its mission,
also of the Woman’s Store,said that was not
sustained as it should be, and made other
excellent remarks.
	President Horne said she was very much
interested in the remarks of Sister Wells
and felt to endorse everything she said in
regard to the Exponent. She would very
much dislike to see the paper die and urged
the sisters to do what they could to sustain
it, also spoke of the Woman’s Store and
said that it should be sustained as well.
President Horne felt that this had been a
great care on her; felt these were temporal
things but the temporal things had to be
mixed up with the spiritual.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction offered.
by Sister Julia C. Howe.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia),  Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY JUNE 15, & JULY l, 1897


[Column 1]
OLD FOLKS MEETING.

IN THE TABERNACLE.
	THERE was probably a larger gathering
of the old folks in the Tabernacle this year
than on any previous occasion, and the
picture was a pleasing one. The visitors
occupied the front seats in the centre of the
building, and the delight manifest in their
appearance was in itself compensation to
the Committee. Carnations were distri-
buted by a committee of ladies, and the
fragrance and beauty of the flowers must
have been grateful to the silver haired men
and women. Held’s band was there with
its choice selections, and the “Old Folks
choir” did not neglect to sing “Auld Lang
Syne” and other popular melodies, and
Brother Wm. Dunbar had his bagpipes,
and the Deseret Guitar and Mandolin Club
together with the Tabernacle choir was the
complete musical part of the program.
President George Q. Cannon presided,
Elder George Goddard offered prayer after
singing by the choir; and in remembering
the Old Folks, did not forget Queen Vic-
toria’s Jubilee and the birthday of Bishop
Edward Hunter.
	President Wilford Woodruff was present
in person, and though he was not able, be-
cause of a cold, to speak, had prepared a
written address which was read by Elder
David McKenzie, the speech of welcome
by President George Q. Cannon, was given
in his most gracious and cordial manner wel-
coming the veterans and refering to long
life as a blessing from the Lord to those
who had obeyed His laws and sought to
serve Him..
	We regret lack of space to give his ad-
dress and other interesting facts of the eve-
ning, but we give the address of the vener-
able Pioneer and President in full as it ap-
peared in the Deseret Evening News.
PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S ADDRESS.
	President Wilford Woodruff, one of the
few who has passed the ninetieth milestone
of life, was on the program for an address,
but being the sufferer from a bad cold, his
address was a prepared one which was read
by Elder David McKenzie. It was as fol-
lows:
	“My Dear Friends—I thank God that I
have lived to see this day. I rejoice to be-
hold the faces of so many of my friends
gathered together in this great Tabernacle.
We who have been upon this earth from
seventy to ninety years and upwards have

[Column 2]
passed through one of the most interesting
generations of the children of men. What
marvelous changes have taken place during
our lifetime! We see things today and
look upon them without wonder that in our
early days would have been considered
miraculous. When I was a small boy we
had just emerged from under the blue laws
of Connecticutt—to greater freedom of
thought and action. The ducking stool
and other forms of punishment akin to it
had been laid aside. Women were no
longer hanged or burned at the stake as
witches. Greater religious liberty was en-
joyed. Women were allowed to kiss their
children, husbands their wives, on the Sab-
bath day without being punished for it. If
a boy took an ear of corn from the field,
although even then he might be punished
for it, he was not in danger of being sold
as a slave, as in former days. The im-
proved condition of things had just been
brought about when I came into the world.
But greater and more wonderful changes
have been accomplished since that time. In
my boyhood every acre of grain was cut
with a sickle in New England. The first
advance made in that direction was when
the hand cradle came into use. The reaper
and the binder were never dreamed of in
those days. If such things had been
brought into the wheatfields then, the peo- 
ple of the land would almost have thought
the millenium had come. And there has
been rapid advancement in almost every
department of life.
	“I need not take up your time in detail-
ing the many changes and improvements
that have been made. We live today amid
the wondrous powers of steam and electric-
ity, by which such marvelous things are
being accomplished. All these things have
been brought about in our day, and I feel
to thank God for what He has done for the
children of men in blessing them as he has
done. Mankind have great cause for
thankfulness to our Father in heaven be-
cause of the many blessings he has bestow-
ed upon them in this day and generation.
	“We who live in Utah have especial cause
to thank and praise His holy name for the
blessings we enjoy. I have spent fifty
years in these valleys of the Rocky moun-
tains and have passed through all the
phases of territorial government until we
have arrived at full statehood, and I feel it
a great privilege to meet with so many of
my friends and citizens of the State of
Utah, and I consider it proper here to
make some reference to our arrival as
pioneers, and the commencement of our
labors in this great American desert. And
I should be recreant in my duty and justly
place myself under strong reproof did I
not give the honor and glory to our great
prophet, seer, revelator and pioneer, Presi-
dent Brigham Young, who under God,
laid the foundation of redeeming this great
American desert from its sterility into the
fruitful and noble State of Utah as we find
it today. President Young was inspired to
come here, and he was inspired to work
after he got here, and when Samuel Bran-
nan, who took the ship Brooklyn from New
York to San Francisco, loaded with Latter-
day Saints, came to this barren country and
met with the pioneers, he looked at the
desolation and barrenness, and tried with
all the power he had to pursuade President
Young not to stop here, but to go on to
California. I heard President Young give
his answer to Samuel Brannan in the fol-

[Column 3]
lowing language, striking his cane into the
soil. “No sir; I am going to stop right
here. I am going to build a city here. I
am going to build a temple here, and I am
going to build a country here.” And by the
help of God he lived to see all this fulfilled.
He dedicated the corner-stone of the Salt
Lake Temple, and dictated the building of
the Temple up to the time of his death.
He directed the building of the St. George
Temple, and he moved a great mountain to
get a place to suit him upon which to erect
the Manti Temple. He pointed out the
place upon which to build the Logan Tem-
ple, and he did a great deal toward its
erection. He built the big Tabernacle in
Salt Lake City, and he dictated to the
architects nearly all that is upon the Tem-
ple block. There is hardly a city or town
in Utah that was not laid out under his
direction.
	“I brought President Young into the val-
ley in my carriage. This was the first
time he had ever seen the place, except in
vision, and as we came around the bend
where we could have a good view of the
valley, he wished me to turn the side of the
carriage so that he could have a better
view, which I did, having a door opening
on the side of the carriage. After viewing
the valley awhile he said: “That will do,
drive on; this is the place. I have seen
this valley before in a vision.” President
Young had been sick for several days on
the Weber river, and several of the Pioneers
had gone ahead and cut the road through a
quaking asp grove, and had formed a camp
and commenced breaking ground, but it
was so very dry that it was difficult to
break it until it was watered. I arrived at
the camp at 11.30. It was a little north-
east of where the Knutsford hotel now
stands. I had in my carriage one bushel of
potatoes, and I covenanted that I would
not eat or drink until the potatoes were
planted in the earth. I fulfilled this coven-
ant, getting some of the brethren to help
me, and soon had my potatoes planted.
	*	*	*	*
	“Although we were on Mexican soil we
planted the American flag soon after our
arrival here. We immediately went to
work and as a protection against Indians
surrounded a ten acre plat on three sides
with a ten foot adobe wall—on the remain-
ing side with log cabins. Immediately we
had to dig ditches and get water to our
crops or nothing would have matured.
With our surveyor’s chain and compass
President Young went to work to lay out
Salt Lake City just as we see it today, with
its broad streets and sidewalks, in the
midst of dry, barren sagebrush, with scarce
a white man’s house within a thousand
miles of us. I assisted in all that work.
Many of you who are before me have also
labored and toiled to build and beautify
this country and make it what it is today.
You know what we have had to pass
through in all this. But God has been
with us. He has crowned our labors with
success. He has blessed the land and
made it fruitful; and we have been able to
surround ourselves with pleasant homes
and many of the comforts of life. There-
fore, I say, we have great cause to be
thankful to our Father for the blessings 
we enjoy.
	“God bless the aged fathers and mothers
of Utah. They have performed a mighty
work in this land. They have worked and
toiled, and sought to do good on the earth,


and they are worthy of respect and honor
in their old age. We ought to do all we
can to make them happy while they live
upon the earth. I hope you who have come
together here, on the old folk’s excursion,
will have a good time while you are here.
I pray God to bless you all, and comfort
your hearts. I do not know how much
longer I shall tarry with you, but while I
remain I want to do all the good I can.
This should be the desire of all of us.
Many of us have lived a long time on the
earth, and have tried to serve God and carry
out His purposes, and we should continue
to do this until we are called to the other
side of the veil. God bless you all. God
bless our children, that they may grow up
to follow in the footsteps of their fathers
and mothers, and to take up the work that
will devolve upon them when we shall pass
away. I feel to bless you and all the peo-
ple, and ask God to bless you, in the name
of Jesus. Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE PIONEER JUBILEE. 

	GREAT preparations are going forward
here and in other adjacent localities for
celebrating the Pioneer Jubilee of a half
century; the Hall of Relics is nearing its
completion and is quite artistic in design,
and presents something of the appearance
in its whiteness of the World’s Fair build-
ings in Chicago, which caused Jackson
Square to be designated as the “White
City.” Were it a permanent building the
city might be proud of it; as it is, one can
only enjoy its beauty for a little season.
	The foundation for the monument in
honor of President Brigham Young is also
in process and the work is being pushed as
rapidly as possible. Other matters that
have been undertaken are not so noticable,
but the people are given to understand that
everything is progressing and it is expected
that there will be the greatest gathering in
this city that has ever taken place here.
	The pioneers themselves, the real veter-
ans should be honored and made to feel
that their labors are appreciated by those
who are reaping in a great measure the
benefits of their toil and endeavors. This
generation born in the valleys of the
mountains know comparatively little of the
hardships and positive suffering of those
who came to this desert and opened up the
land for homes and habitations that they
now enjoy, and made it possible for them
to go on and improve and establish great
industries and great institutions of learn-
ing of which these pioneers laid the earliest
foundations. The greater part of those
valiant men and women have gone behind
the vail, but for those who still remain no
pains should be spared to make the Jubilee
all that it can possibly mean to them.
Something more than mere show and
pageantries, or even brass bands or martial
music or military parade The spirit of
the Lord must permeate the Jubilee pro-
ceedings if it be an acceptable tribute to
those who are expected to be the recipients
of this homage.
	The people who came up here in 1847,
came by inspiration and dedicated this land
to the Lord for a resting place for the weary
saints, and the Lord has wonderfully blest
their efforts, and caused the earth to bring
forth in abundance, and this same spirit
must continue and abide with the people if
prosperity is to crown their labors in the
future as it has in the past. The original

[Column 2]
settlers of these vales were men of God
who relied upon His wisdom to guide them,
and must do so still in order to secure His
blessing and approbation.
	A useless expenditure of time and means
for the sake of show is not in keeping with
the spirit of the pioneers, nor was it to the
Pilgrim fathers and mothers, as history and
tradition abundantly testify. Economy at
the present time is the first consideration,
how to make the wisest and best use of
means and material, and whatever is ex-
pended for the Jubilee should be for that
which will make a lasting impression, or be
a fitting tribute to the memory and ser-
vices of the faithful ones, who labored
more to secure freedom and liberty for
those who should come after them than for
their own individual selves. They were
planning and building for the future, and
deserve commendation from those who have
partaken of the privileges they earned by
the sweat of the brow and wrought out of
the soil.
	Let us all hope that the Jubilee may be
to those veterans all that it promises now
and much more in its spirit of love and
union; that it may teach a valuable les-
son to the younger generation and to the
strangers who may visit Utah on that
occasion.
	The Columbian Exposition taught many
lessons to those who took part in it, and it
is greatly to be desired that the Jubilee
may awaken a spirit of enterprise and of
industry, that will cause capital to be invest-
ed that will give employment to the labor-
er and materially enrich the country.
Utah abounds in raw material of various
kinds, and one of the interests which ought
to have fair representation is the silk in-
dustry. Those who know the great efforts
made by Brigham Young and others
associated with him in securiug mulberry
seed and raising the trees, and finally bring-
ing sericulture to be something of a home
success, realize its importance in furnish-
ing employment, for women and children,
especially, though men not able to do hard
work would find sericulture remunerative,
and much better than being idle,for idleness
is the parent of many vices.
	So much is being said publicly and pri-
vately in these days so near the Jubilee, of
Brigham Young and his wise enterprises, it
is devoutly to be hoped that the silk industry
will be brought prominently forward, for it
was one of the things he emphasized most
strongly, and in which he believed it safe to
invest capital and be sure of quick returns.


A PIONEER WOMAN’S BIRTHDAY.

	Monday, June 14, was the birthday
anniversary of Sister Mary Jane Thompson
a pioneer of 1847, although at that time she
had not entered her teens. Sister Thomp-
son’s parents were veterans in the Church
and she is the cousin of President. Jos. F.
Smith, their mothers were sisters and the
daughters of Joseph Fielding, who with his
family was among the first who embraced
the Gospel in this dispensation.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball and Sister
Thompson’s son Robert, arranged a sur-
prise for Sister Thompson and invited a
few of her intimate friends and Sister Kim-
ball presented her with an elegant orna-
mented birthday cake with her name on it,
which added to the delicious repast that
had been prepared for the guests, about


twenty-five in number, that they all en-
joyed. Sister Thompson entertained her
friends during the afternoon with reminis-
cences of her father and mother, telling us
of the early days in the valley, and show-
ing us some relics she had kept, old letters
and papers and articles of value, her fath-
er’s epaulettes that are just as he wore
them in Nauvoo, and the little old-fashion-
ed chair in which she sat when a little
girl in Nauvoo and crossing the plains.
She also showed us a pretty little penknife
made shortly after she came to the valley.
	In the evening there was some speaking
in an informal way, President Joseph F.
Smith calling upon those present at Sister
Kimball’s solicitation, and she was the first
one called. She alluded, as did most of
those who spoke, to Kirtland and Nauvoo,
and told us some very interesting things.
Sister Zina D. H. Young and Bathsheba
W. Smith followed in a similar strain and
brought in Missouri as well as Ohio and
Illinois. Sister Margaret P. Young, who
is one of the pioneers of 1847, spoke in the
gift of tongues; interpreted by Sister Zina.
Other sisters who spoke were Sisters Mary
Gray, M. A. Lambert, Diana Reed, E. B.
Wells Ann Y. White, J. L. Smith and
one or two others, also Brother Howard
Corey who is a veteran, and was at one
time clerk for Joseph Smith the prophet in
Nauvoo, Hamilton G. Park and Robert
Taylor, after which Sister Thompson ex-
pressed her gratitude for the good feeling
and wishes manifest in her behalf and al-
luded tenderly to her father and mother,
and to the Prophet Joseph and his brother
Hyrum, and her vivid recollections of their 
affectionate ways with children. President
Smith then offered a few remarks which
was very gratifying to all who had the
pleasure of listening; and he also told us
in an impressive manner some of his re-
membrances of his father and his uncle
Joseph, and a little of his missionary ex-
periences. By request Brother Park dis-
missed with prayer. It was a very pleasant
and enjoyable gathering, there was a
beautiful spirit of peace in the house and
seemingly it prevaded every heart, and
such a gathering of those who love and try
to serve the Lord always leaves its blessing
upon all associated together in the home if
they are susceptible to a divine influence.


MRS. GARRETT’S PARTY.

	THERE was a very pleasant gathering of
brethren and sisters at the home of Elder
Geo. B. Wallace in this city on the after-
noon of Thursday June 10, the occasion
being the birthday of his daughter, Mrs.
Mary E. Garrett. The rooms were
fragrant with the odor of June roses and
their beauty was a delight to gaze upon.
Sister Garrett is very fond of old ladies and
she had quite a number invited to her
party which was a very enjoyable affair.
Brother Wallace was very entertaining and
gave us many reminiscences of his first
season in the valley in 1847. Sisters Susan
Grant and Melissa Lambson, both pioneers
of 1847, helped with their remembrances of
those times and it was exceedingly interest-
ing though rather sad to hear of the hard-
ships through which the people passed at
that time. Sister Ann E. Browning of
Ogden, one of the guests, came in with the
handcarts and their hardships too were
talked of, and with a number who came in


1848, and all adding a little of the early
day experiences made the conversatson
quite graphic. However there were some
charming young people as well as older
ones and they gave us some fine music.
Gwendolyn Lewis and Hattie Wallace
rendered in sweet strains the song “Come
to me.” also “O my Father,” and later
on ‘‘The New Jerusalem” and “Tirzah’s
Serenade,” and some other melodies.
	The five o’clock tea or supper was a
very elaborate affair and elegantly served,
ice cream and ices, strawberries, cherries and
other fruits for dessert after a variety of
substantial dishes, and withal more items
of early days. Besides the names already
mentioned there were present Sisters Sarah
M. Kimball, Rachel Grant, Jane Hodgett,
Amanda Kimball, Martha Wallace, Sarah
Davis, Julina L. and Alice K. Smith,
Elizabeth McDonald, Martha Perkins,
President Jos. E. Taylor and wife, Brother
Wm. Spicer, George B. Wallace Jun. and
wife and some others. Mrs. Garrett re-
gretted very much the absence of President
Jos. F. Smith and Sisters Zina D. H.
Young and Bathsheba W. Smith who had
been expected. The visit was in every
respect a happy one, and Sister Garrett re-
ceived many congratulations and good
wishes for future happiness and prosperity,
in which the EXPONENT heartily joins,
wishing her many happy returns of the
day.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TWO PLEASANT PARTIES.

	JUNIUS F. WELLS and wife gave a very
pleasant birthday party on the evening of
June 1, to members of the family; unfor-
tunately all could not be present but nearly
all those residing in the city came,
some were absent from unavoidable causes.
Mrs. Wells’ rooms were decorated almost
exclusively with carnations many of them
scarlet, which gave a beautiful tone of
color to the parlors and other apartments.
In fact the house is furnished with the
most exquisite taste, and as the writer is
very fond of color, these simple decorations
add to the pleasure of a social evening.
	There was also some fine selections on
the piano by Mrs. Wells, who in addition
to being a model housekeeper is an excel-
lent musician, and knows how much music
adds to any feast however inviting its viands,
and in this instance the supper was deli-
cious.
	It was not exactly a woman’s, party as
there were several gentlemen present, and
the arrival of the Governor, Heber M.
Wells, who was urged to say a few words
on the occasion and consented to speak
briefly, though he had just come from mak-
ing a public speech; the speech of the eve-
ning was made by Junius F. Wells, who
alluded most affectionately to his father,
the late Gen. D. H. Wells, and expressed a
desire to see the family come together often
and keep up the same affectionate relations
as existed in his father’s lifetime.
	Every one who helps to promote this
spirit of harmony of ideas and good feeling
is adding to the happiness of the whole and
it is certainly commendable. There is
nothing more pleasing in life than the inti-
mate relation and friendly intercourse of a
large family who cherish a fondness for
each other, who naturally as they grow
older drift away from each other after mar-
riage, or perhaps through business enter-
prises and in striving for the maintenance

[Column 2]
and education of their own immediate
family.

	Mrs. Annie S. Wells gave a delightful
party on Friday afternoon June 18, at her
pretty cottage in the 20th Ward of this
city. The rooms were fragrant with roses
and carnations of which the decorations
largely consisted, roses of many varieties
and artistically arranged. The conversa-
tion was cheerful and entertaining as it
generally is when so many charming wo-
men come together socially. Besides her
several Wells’ aunties, there were a num-
ber of the Wells family married and un-
married, Mrs. Isabel M. Sears, Mrs.
Frances Wells, Mrs. Abbie Young, Miss
Kate Wells, Mrs. Helena Wells, Mrs. Joseph-
ine Wells, Mrs. May W. Whitney, Miss
Emeline Wells, Mrs. Emily W Grant,
Mrs. Annette W. Culmer, Miss Lyde Wells,
Mrs. Annie W. Cannon, Mrs. Clara W.
Hedges, Mrs. Lillie Y. Wells, Mrs. Susie
R. Wells, Mrs. Edna W. Sloan. It was a
very happy afternoon, taking all in all
though some were absent on account of
illness that would have made the company
more complete, and it would have been
more gratifying. The repast was very
delicious and served on little tables in the
parlors, assisted by some dainty little girls
in white, Dessie Grant and Alice Wells
who were very polite and attentive to the
guests and made every one feel at home.
	The hostess may be assured that all
went away with the impression that she
knew just how to make visitors enjoy
themselves. These family parties are a
delightful social feature and promote union
and love in the family, than which there
can be nothing more desirable among those
connected by the ties of kindred.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. I. C. MANCHESTER of Providence,
R. I., is expected to arrive here on Satur-
day July 3, and will remain a day or two.
Mrs. Manchester is President of the Nation-
al Association of Loyal Women of American
Liberty. It will be her first visit to Utah,
though some of our sisters have made her
acquaintance in the East. She is expected
to deliver an address while here, in some
large hall.
	MISS ELLIS SHIPP, a student of the
University of Utah, received the highest
honor in mathematics this year. The
young girl is sixteen years of age and is
the daughter of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, so
well and favorably known in Utah, and
who graduated from the Woman’s Medical
College in Philadelphia, Pa., in 1878.
We congratulate the young lady on her
success, and have in her case another in-
stance of the girls surpassing the boys.
	THE Trans-Mississippi Commercial Con-
gress will open here in the Assembly Hall
on the 14th day of July, and then, and be-
fore and after, the city will be crowded with
strangers. The women’s clubs in this city
are making ready to show the ladies of the
party every attention possible to make them
feel happy and welcome while they so-
journ here. These people will be from dif-
ferent parts of the United States, and are
business men of known reputation which
should be an inducement to those who have
the matter in hand to furnish reliable in-
formation and people to give it, who know


what Utah is, its past and present and
something of its future prospects under
favorable conditions.
	THE sisters of the Relief Society in the
Fourteenth ward of this city celebrated the
birthday of their President, Sister Maria
W. Wilcox, in a very fitting manner on
Thursday June 17, at her residence. Con-
gratulations poured in upon her and gifts
of flowers and other souvenirs of the day,
as well as an elegant birthday cake and the
daintiest refreshments. But above all and
without doubt what she prized most was
the spirit of love and good will that was
manifest towards her and in appreciation of
her labors. The officers of the Society in-
vited some of Sister Wilcox’s particular
friends outside of the ward, Sisters Z. D.
H. Young, B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells, E.
Webb, A. E. Neal, C. S. Thomas and
others; there were perhaps fifty or more.
During the gathering Apostle F. D. Rich-
ards, who is her brother, came and made a
congratulatory speech although he could
not remain long. Elder S. W. Richards
and wife who have recently returned from
the East, (where Brother Richards was
presiding over the Conference) were present,
also another of her brothers, Elder H. P.
Richards and wife. Many of those who
spoke of Sister Wilcox also alluded to its
being the birthday anniversary of another
veteran woman who was present, Sister
Julia C Howe, who also came in for a
share of the praise and honor. We con-
gratulate both these good sisters wishing
them long life, peace and every blessing.


IN MEMORIAM.

IN LOVING RESPECT.

	To Sister Betty Walker, an old resident of this
place, and a faithful worker in our Relief Soci-
ety, who died June 5, 1897. after a long spell of
sickness. Sister Walker with her husband came
to Ut h in the year 1849, and to Cedar City in the
year 1851, residing here almost entirely ever
since. She has left a large family of growing
sons and dau hters, and had lived to become a
great great grandmother, being eighty-five years
of age. She was true to her religion and her
covenants, looking forward with joyful anticipa-
tion to her reunion with her husband and her
beloved sister who had preceded her to their
home of rest.
		J. H. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec'y
Cedar City, June 15.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	ADOPTED by the Fourth Ward Relie Society of
Provo May 9 1897.
	Whereas we are called upon to mourn the loss
of our below[v]ed sister, Eliza Ann Carter Snow
	RESOLVED, That we ack owledge the hand of
our Heavenly Father in brin ing her to be asso-
ciated with us, and that we deeply mourn her
loss as a faithful and active member of the Relief
Society of this ward as long as she was able to
attend meetings During her l fetime she was
ever ready to assist with her means, and was
known as a faithful Latter-day Saint, always will-
ingly assisting in all good works.
	She was orn in the town of Newr, Oxford
Co., State of Maine, on the 28th of September
1818, and joined the Church in 1854, and passed
through trials and hardships in consequence of
her faith, which remained unshaken to the last.
She always paid her tith s and offerings even to
within a few days of her death. She was a wo-
man of much faith, both for herself and others.
She was healed man  times by the power of faith,
and once when she had been given up by phy-
sicians and it had been reported that she was
dead. She was the mother of nine children,
fifty-five gran children and fifty-one great-grand-
children,
	RESOLVED, That we feel to extend our sym-
pathy to her family in their loss, but we feel
that they have been greatly blessed in her wise,
faithful counsel and example.


SISTER ANN HAMNETT.
	After being afflicted many years our beloved
sister, Ann Hamnett departed this life Feb 18,
1897. She was born April 11, 1824, in Brox-
bottom, England, was baptized the year 1840,
was one of the first to embrace the Gospel in that
land, President John Taylor being the one who
brought her the Gospel; she was baptized by
Orson Pratt, he being the first missionary to visit
that land. She was kept a prisoner, her parents
not being willing for her to associate with the
Latter-day Saints. When an opportunity was
afforded her she would steal away and go and
hear the word of God. For seven years she had
not her liberty to do as the Spirit of God directed
but when she was married she was free to choose
her life and what she would be. She and her
husband set sail for Salt Lake City the 15th of
March, crossed the plains with ox teams and ar-
rived in Salt Lake City on the 6th of October,
being eight months on the toilsome journey.
They resided in Salt Lake City until the Saints
had to leave their homes for Johnson’s army to
pass through the city, then mo ed to Alpine
ward and has made it her home ever since. She
was a faithful worker in the Relief Society, being
a teacher for many years, always willing to labor
in the Gospel  She leaves four children, two
sons and two daughters. May they honor her
memory and follow her example, for she was in-
deed a faithful companion, true to her covenants
and respected by all who knew her. As we
gazed on her beautiful white face, and thought of
her many good deeds, we wondered if all the
good actions were recorded in the tablets of
heaven.
						R. Y. NASH.
SISTER MARY BURT.
	Sister Mary Burt died at her home at Eden,
Weber Co., May 17 1897, after an illness of three
weeks which she bore w[i]th patience and fortitude.
She was the daughter of James and Ellen Mc-
Bride, was born n Barney parish, Tillcross,
Scotland, Aug st 28, 1821 Was mar ied to James
Burt August 4, 1841. Em grated o Utah with
her husband, two son  and four daughters. Came
to this ward seventeen years ago and has been
an active worker in the Relief Society, acting as
teacher, always ready and willing to visit the
poor and those in need of assistance, which labor
she performed as long as her health would per-
mit, and which office she held until the day of
her dep rture from this 1 fe.
	Sister Burt died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint, a de oted wife and loving
mother. She leaves two sons, f ur daughters,
forty-five gra dchildren and nine great-grand-
children to mourn her loss, b t with hope of a
glorious resurrection.
	In behalf of the Relief Society we tender our
deepest sympathy to the bereaved husband and
family, also the following:
	Wave ye softly plumy grasses, 
		O’er yon sleeper’s lonely mound;
	Sigh ye gently prarie breezes,
		Let not c amor there be found.
	Flowers of summer star her over,
		L ke the gems on robe of king;
	Songsters hither your sweet music
		In the golden dawning b ing
	She lies silent ’neath the blossoms, 
		Wit other friends beside;
	Fainting in ife’s mellow glory,
		Sought a land beyond the ti e.
	Love, true, mighty and eternal,
		Stretching over the dark sea
	Re c ing to the gates of heaven,
		Friends are knocking there for thee.
	But the soul though faint with longing,
		Still must tarry here a day;
	Till our soul-life growing stronger,
		Then we soar to her away.
	Knowing she is home in heaven.
		Where no storms can e’er betide;
	We in peace can wait till Jesus,
 		Calls us to our loved ones side.
				SARAH J. SHUPE, Pres’t.
				MARIA GRAHAM, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

SAN JUAN.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society Confer-
ence of the San Juan Stake of Zion, held at

[Column 2]
Mancos, Colorado, May 23, 1897, Stake
President Martha Hammond presiding.
Present on the stand were Apostle Frank-
lin D. Richards and wife Jane S. Richards,
and Elder Charles W. Penrose, Counselor
in the Salt Lake Stake. Of the Stake
Presidency F. A. Hammond and Wm.
Halls. Opened by the choir singing the
hymn “Glory to God on high;” prayer
was offered by President F. A. Hammond;
continued by singing “Softly beams the
sacred dawning.”
	President Martha Hammond expressed
her pleasure in meeting in Relief Society
Conference again and of being favored with
the presence of Sister Jane S. Richards,
First Counselor to the President Sister Zina
D. H. Young, also the visiting brethren.
	The reports of the different branches
of the Stake were listened to. All are
doing fairly well but there is room for im-
provement. The General and Stake officers
were unanimously sustained.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards commenced
her remarks by saying, should the babies
cry she did not want them sent out of the
place as she felt they were angels; if she
could not talk louder than a baby could
cry she would take her seat, as she did
not want the mothers to be deprived of
coming to meeting because they had babies.
“I do hope the mothers will be more dili-
gent in the training of their children, as the
evil one is doing all in his power to lead
them astray, therefore it will require the
undivided attention of the parents, teaching
their children to be truthful, honest and
virtuous. Our young women as a rule
seem to think that the Relief Society was
organized for the old ladies, but that is not
the case for it is for old and young alike,
and I hope all will try and attend to the
Relief meetings as often as they can and I
hope the sisters will continue to store wheat
as President Brigham Young counseled
them to do in case of famine. We know
not how it will come or when, and the
safest way is to prepare for it. I do wish
the parents, the mothers especially, would
attend the Primaries occasionally; it not
only encourages the children, but would be
a great help to those who have them in
charge.” Gave other instructions, among
them she enjoined upon the sisters the
necessity of sustaining their own paper, the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Elder Penrose, of Salt Lake City, said
what was worth doing at all, was worth
doing well, then if we undertake to do any-
thing in the different associations, we
should apply our whole energy to that duty
and do it well. If we give our hearts to
the Lord, then we will be willing to give
all we have to His cause Hoped that the
sisters would put barriers in the way of the
wave of unchastity that is sweeping over
the people, and be very firm and earnest in
instructing the youth in being chaste and
virtuous.
	Apostle Richards said in order to keep
up our proper growth, men and women
must understand what their mission is here
on earth, and each one of us should be
satisfied with our mission here, as the Lord
understood what he was doing when He
sent us here. Spoke very impressively on
the subject of chastity and virtue, which
was previously spoken on by Elder Pen-
rose, and for parents to keep strict watch
over their children and not allow them to
be roaming around at night, and wanted
the Bishops to attend the Primaries and

[Column 3]
show to the children that they have an in-
terest in them, also to counsel and assist
the sisters in the care of the wheat that
they have to store up.
	President F. A. Hammond added a few
remarks endorsing all that had been said.
The Conference was adjourned for three
months, after which the choir sang. Bene-
diction by Bishop George Hall.
	EVELYN ADAMS, Stake Sec’y.
BEAR LAKE.
	THE Bear Lake Relief Society convened
at the Bloomington meeting house May 23,
at 10 a. m., President Hart of the Stake
presidency being on the stand. After sing-
ing, prayer was offered by Brother Walter
Hodge; the choir sang “Hail to the bright-
ness of Zion’s glad morning.” The offic-
ers roll was called, after which President
Lindsay expressed her thankfulness to God
for the many blessings we were enjoying.
Said the forenoon meeting would be de-
voted to reports. The following branches
of the Relief Society were accordingly re-
ported as in good condition, the sisters
enjoying their labors and felt that the
Spirit of God was with them. Blooming-
ton, President Patterson; Paris First ward,
Sister Jane Stucki; Paris Second ward,
President Innes; Lanark, Sister Loveland;
Liberty, Sister Austin; Ovid, President
Carlson; Bern, President Kuntz; Naunen,
Sister Williams; Georgetown, Sister H.
Huff; Bennington, Sister Merrill; Mont-
pelier, Sister Bagley; Dingle, Sister Sparks;
St. Charles, Sister N. A. Pugmire; Fish-
haven, President Howell; Garden City,
President Linford; Lake Town, Sister
Nebeker; Wardboro, President Lindsay;
Thomas Fork, Soda Springs, Round-valley,
Randolph and Woodruff being the only
ones in the whole Stake not represented.
	President Lindsay said that there had
never been a better representation of the
Relief Society before in this Stake and
urged the sisters to awake to a sense of
their duties and live that they might enjoy
a goodly portion of the Spirit of God to
lead and guide them in all their under-
takings. Spoke of sustaining the Priest-
hood of God. Meeting adjourned by sing-
ing “Jesus my own Redeemer.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop Finley.
	At 2 p. m. meeting was called and after
the usual devotional exercises the sacra-
ment was administered; during the admin-
istration of the same the choir sang a
sacramental hymn. President Lindsay
spoke a short time giving timely advice
and counsel. Counselor Elizabeth Collins
feebly tottered to the stand and expressed
her thanks to God for sparing her life un-
til this time. Spoke of her travels through
this Stake of Zion and felt that her work
was nearly done. Her only desire was to
be faithful to the end.
	Counselor L. M. Hart spoke of the good
work being done by the Relief Society.
Addressed the young ladies, urged them
to be kind to their parents, especially their
mothers; said “They will not always be
with you, do not wait until after they are
gone before you realize what they have
done for you.”
	Sister Mary Bagley said there was a
great responsibility resting upon the
mothers in Israel, they should be worthy
examples for their children.
	Sister Hodge expressed a desire to do all
she could to further the good work. Presi-
dent Joseph Hart spoke of the liberal


[Column 1]
donation of the Relief Society for the Stake
Academy. Urged a careful education of
the young people in Zion, they should be
examples of purity to the world.
	The statistical and financial report was
then read, after which the minutes of Con-
ference were read and approved. Sister
Amelia Hodge was set apart to assist in
the Relief Society of the Stake and meeting
adjourned by the choir singing an anthem.
Benediction by Bishop Finley.
			ROSE HILLIER, Cor. Sec’y.
SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARY.
	Minutes of the Primary Conference
of the Salt Lake Stake held June 19, 1897,
in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Presi-
dent Camilla C. Cobb presiding. Singing,
“A happy band of children” prayer by
David Cummings; continued by singing,
“Merry, merry children;” roll called with
twenty-two associations represented; min-
utes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. The following program was
rendered: A quartett, “Song of Welcome”
was sung by the Beesley children from the
22nd Ward. A sketch of the life of Brig-
ham Young was read by Frankie Young
from the 14th Ward. Recitation by Bessie
Fryer, 5th Ward. Lilly Conelly from the
2nd Ward, gave a story from the Book of
Mormon. Birthday song, “The Latter-
day Prophet,” was sung by the children.
Pioneer sketch by Judith Anderson, 13th
Ward. Motion song by a number of child-
ren from Forest Dale. Sentiments from
the sermons of Brigham Young by twelve
children fiom the 19th Ward. “Utah we
love thee” was sung by six girls from the
7th Ward. A motion song was sung by
Irene Tucket from the 11th Ward. Thir-
teen children from the same ward recited
the hymn that President John Taylor sang
to Joseph Smith one hour before his death,
“A poor wayfaring man of grief.” Reci-
tation, “Angels Guide,” by Della Jones of
the 15th Ward. Song by a number of
children from the 21st Ward. Recitation
by Chloe Brown from East Draper. Song
by members from the 1st Ward.
	President Louie B. Felt spoke in a pleas-
ing manner to the children. Said she had
enjoyed listening to the program given in
honor of Brigham Young, was reminded of
the great good he did while he was living;
also of Sister Eliza R. Snow. Related a
story showing the importance of never re-
fusing to do any duty we are called upon
to perform.
	President Cobb said she had listened
with pleasure to the exercises. Felt to
thank the General Board for furnishing the
booklet that had aided us in celebrating
the birthday of President Brigham Young.
Said conference would be adjourned for
three months. Singing Doxology. Bene-
diction by Brother Beesley.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Stake Sec’y.
OAKLEY, IDAHO.
	I will give you a synopsis of a portion of
the celebration of June 1, 1897. Three of
the Primaries met at Oakley Hall, the ex-
ercises were as follows: Opened with sing- 
ing “Hymn for the Latter-day Prophet.”
Prayer by Brother D. P. Curtis, a member
of the Mormon Battalion. Singing by the
Marion Primary association “Let love
abound.” First, Recitation entitled
“Angels Guide,” by Royal Price. Second,
singing “’Neath the old-apple tree,” by
two boys and two girls of the Marion
Association. Third, A short address on the

[Column 2]
life of Brigham Young by President H D.
Haight of this Stake of Zion. Fourth, In-
strumental music by Miss Vilate Bates of
Marion. Fifth, “Twelve reasons why we
honor Brigham Young,” answers by twelve
young ladies, Oakley. Sixth, An essay on
the Biography of Brigham Young by Ruby
Pickett. Seventh, Instrumental music,
Geneva Elison, Oakley. Eighth, Recitation
by Willie Sessions of Marion. Ninth,
Twelve sentiments from the sermons of
Brigham Young by a class of boys and
girls of the Oakley Association. Tenth, Re-
marks on the worthiness of the character of
President Young, Moroni Pickett, Marion.
	President Priscilla Worthington made
closing remarks and announced for the
children, to adjourn to the Lee Hall at 3
p. m. for further pleasures of the day.
Services closed by Oakley choir singing,
“A happy band of children.” Benediction
by Brother Thomas Dunn, also a member
of the Mormon Battalion.
				S. E. ROBINSON.
P. S. Other Primaries and Sunday
schools celebrated the memorable day at
their respective places.	S. E R.
EAST MILL CREEK PRIMARY.
	THE Primary of East Mill Creek cele-
brated the birthday of our beloved presi-
dent, Brigham Young, in the following
manner: First was the raising of the
Stars and Stripes, then came the program.
Opening hymn. “Our God we raise to
Thee” by the Primary children. Invoca-
tion by Bishop’s counselor Samuel Oliver.
Continued by the Primary singing “When
many to the Savior’s feet.” The opening
address to the children was given by our
Bishop in a most eloquent and able man-
ner, admonishing the children to read .and
study the life and character of Brigham
Young as one of the most noble and great-
est of men, whose name stands in the front
as a colonizer. “I look back with pleasure
upon different times when I have been in
his company with my father.” And he
then spoke at great length upon the merits
of Brigham Young.
	“Why we honor Brigham Young” was
recited by Leonidas Fisher. Twelve senti-
ments of Brigham Young were given by
twelve little children. A birthday song
for the Latter-day Prophets was sung by
the Primary choir. “Angels Guide” was
recited by Miss Genie Neff; interspersed
with addresses, questions and answers,
Articles of Faith, songs and recitations.
	The program closed by singing “Trust
the children.” Benediction by Brother J
M. Fisher. We then had lunch followed
by dancing for the children, and an evening
party for the adults, making in all a very
 njoyable day and one long to be remem-
bered by both old and young.
			IRENE FISHER, Sec’y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
	THE commission of the Nashville Cen-
tennial Exposition have designated October
25, as Woman’s National Press Association
Day. It proposed not only to have the W.
N. P. A. send a delegation of speakers, but
women’s press clubs are invited to have
excursions to Nashville at that time, and
take part in the exercises.
	THE man who gives help to another
learns how best to help himself.

Garfield Beach

Time Card in Effect June 15th.

[Column A]
Leave
Salt Lake.
*7:45 a.m.
10:15 a.m.
2:15 p.m.
4:30 p.m.
7:00 p.m.

[Column B]
Arrive
Garfield.
*8:45 a.m.
10:55 a.m.
2:55 p.m.
5:10 p.m.
7:40 p.m.

[Column C]
Leave
Garfield.
12:25 p.m.
*3:10 p.m.
5:10 p.m.
7:00 p.m.
9:00 p.m.

[Column D]
Arrive
Salt Lake.
1:05 p.m.
*4:00 p.m.
5:45 p.m.
7:40 p.m.
9:40 p.m.
*Daily except Sundays.

	Olsen’s orchestra every afternoon and evening.
Boating, bathing and dancing. Fare 50c. Depot
corner First South and Fourth West. City ticket
office under Masonic hall, corner Second South and
West Temple streets.
				D. E. BURLEY, G. P. & T. A.

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[to the right of the logo]
The
People’s
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City		7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver						7:00 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City			3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver				3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
			S. H. H. CLARK,
			OLIVER W. MINK,
			E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
			JOHN W. DOANE,
			FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
						Receivers.
		E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
		E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 169
Vol. 26 SALTLAKE CITY, UTAH. JULY 15 & AUGUST 1, 1897		No. 4-5


CONTENTS:

	A Heart Of Gold—Clio.   Letter From Canada
—Zina Y. Card. Erratta—Frances H. Hanson.
Cooking Recipes. Our Near Neighbors 	The
Ship Brooklyn A.J.C Memorial Services—L. D.
Alder.  Visit and Meetings—A. L. C. In Memor-
iam. R. S. Reports. Relief Society Notice.
Notes And News.

	Editorial:—A Memorable Month Of July
Teresa Clawson Wells. Editorial Notes. Birth-
day Anniversary.

	Poetry:—The Lily And The Bee—O. F Whit
ney. Victoria—L. D. Alder.


THE LILY AND THE BEE.

WRITTEN FOR THE PRIZE COMPETITION BY BISHOP
O. F. WHITNEY.
A LILY in a desert land,
	Drank in the dewy air 
Of snowy crags and crystal streams,
	A flower divinely fair.

The restless breezes wandered by,
	None lingering there to woo;
Each sought a beauteous bride to win,
	But whispered, “She’ll ne’er do.”

Her chastity their ardor chilled,
	For she was as the snow
Crowning her native mountain-tops,
	Tinged with the sunset glow.

The lily mourned her lonely lot,
	And tears chased down her cheek,
Till at her feet a briny lake
	Mirrored each glittering peak.

Into its glassy depths she gazed,
	And found that she was fair;
Thenceforth she smiled a sweeter smile
	Than she was wont to wear.

Vain smiles and tears. The seasons came,
	But cared not long to stay,
Seeking the land of gold and flower,
	Whose every month is May.

A bee flew forth one fateful morn,
	Chased by an idle boy,
Who fearful lest that busy life
	Might his vain life annoy.

Besieged and sacked its honeyed hive,
	And gave to wind and flame
The precious fruits of patient toil,—
	All perished but the name.

The bee winged far its pilgrim flight
	O’er prairie, peak and plain;
It reached the lily’s rock girt land,
	And knew pursuit was vain.

It bent and kissed the blushing flower,
	Whose tears to nectar turned,
And sweetened all that bitter land, 
	By breeze and season spnrned.

They wedded in the wilderness,—
	The Lily and the Bee;
And men maintain ’twas then God gave
	The Land to Industry;—
	
Gave Utah to the Pioneer.
	Whose patient valor won
Our land to law and liberty,
	For patriot, sire and son,


Her golden wedding-day has dawned;
	Ring out a happy c ime,
And welcome here the wedding guest
	From every coast and clime.
Come  ack, come back ye wandering winds,
	And fickle seasons come l
No longer look for fairer lands,
	Find here your happiest home! 
Come frigid North, come fervid South,
	Come generous West and East,
And grace at Utah’s bounteous board,
	The Lily’s marriage feast!
			O. F. WHITNEY


[Column 1]
A HEART OF GOLD.

BY CLIO.
	JOHN HEPLAR walked straight on and
on—too deeply absorbed in his own
thoughts to heed where his feet were carry-
ing him. The conversation with Brother
Harper had made a deep impression upon
him, and he was trying to bring his rebel-
lious, heart to that point of humbleness
which would allow him to follow his ad-
vice. He walked on and on—past the
suburbs and outlying farms, until he reach-
ed the river. Here his steps were neces-
sarily stayed. He flung himself down on
the bank, and began throwing pebbles into
the water. This occupation not proving
diverting, he arose, sought a copse of wil-
lows, and flung himself on his knees, and
tried to pray. The result was something
after this wise:
	“Oh, Lord, if it is true that there is a
Lord. If thou dost live I am thy child
and thou hast placed me here for some pur-
pose. Thy servant has said to seek thee,
and it would not be in vain. Help me to
know my duty and do it. Amen.”
	His prayer was brought to a sudden
close by the sound of splashing water. He
sprang to his feet and rushed from his re-
treat, the thought uppermost in his mind
that he had been discovered. But it
proved to be only two cows splashing and
browsing among the reeds and grass of the
opposite shore. He heaved a sigh of relief,
and threw himself lengthwise on the
ground under the shade of some dwarf wil-
lows. It was a still and drowsy afternoon,
highly propitious to revery and—slumber.
	Already he felt better and lighter in his
spirit. His prayer had been anything but
humble, but it had been exceedingly sin-
cere. It had been a fierce demand for jus-
tice, rather than a humble petition for grace
and mercy. And in this, it was a sort of
reflex of his character. He was so beset
with failings and foibles, yet withal had so
great a desire to do right, that the conflict
had begotten a spirit of defiance, which,
though painful enough to its possessor, was
destined to bring him out of the toils.
	He lay musing on his situation, his hat
pulled over his eyes, until the drowsy,
murmur of the wild bees and the gentle,
lapping of the water on the banks, lulled
him to sleep. How long he thus lay, un-
conscious of external things, he never
knew. But when he awoke and sprang to

[Column 2]
his feet, there was a glad light in his eyes,
and a joy in his heart such as he had never
known. In answer to his prayer, God had
seen fit to pour out his comforting influence
upon him until he felt that he could go
through fire and water to attain the object
which he knew in his heart was possible if
he could but overcome the obstacles which
lay before him.
	He walked homeward with a brisk and
elastic step, formulating plans by the way,
all of which faded into the background as
new ones made their appearance. One
thing he did firmly resolve in his mind,
however, and that was that he should never
again seek after Grace until he should sur-
mount those things which had appeared to
him as obstacles in his path.
	He could not, however, make up his
mind to treat her as a stranger. She had
too long occupied the citadel of his heart
and feelings to be easily torn from that
position. Nor did he desire to do so, but
rather to strengthen the fortress of love by
every legitimate means.
	To this end he set to work. He had
never liked the prosy life of farming, pur-
sued by his father, and had been wont to
shirk all that was possible, so that he had
gained the reputation of being somewhat
lazy. This was not a true estimate. He
was, on the contrary, full of energy, but it
had hitherto been turned into the wrong
channel. All this he knew must be chang-
ed, and though his distaste for the employ-
ment was at this time as strong as ever, he
manfully strove against it and sought to
become interested, or at least to appeal so
until something better turned up. Great
was the wonder and satisfaction of his lov-
ing parents; great the wonder and dissatis-
faction of his former associates, at the
change. His spare moments he devoted to
the study of theology. This necessarily
led him into the past history of his people,
and he was surprised to find how ignorant
he was of events which he had considered
familiar as household words, and which he
had often voted a bore when he had heard
them discussed by the “old fogies” of his
ward. It made him blush now, even when
alone, to think of the disrespectful words,
he had used in relation to those brave, de-
voted, but unfortunate men and women
who had sacrificed so much for the sake of
their beloved religion. Not that he was
yet converted. Not by any means. But it
had been shown to him the path he must
pursue to gain the krowledge he desired,
and he had bravely essayed to accomplish
it.
	Two weeks thus passed away, and John
was becoming more and more interested in
researches. He had proven himself wrong 
so many times that he now began to doubt
whether he was correct in any of his opin-
ions. He had never gone to the great
Source of Wisdom for light again, so his
task was much harder than it would have 
been otherwise. He had isolated himself
entirely from the society of the young peo-
ple for nearly three weeks so that when
the morning of the 22nd of July came


[Column 1]
around, bright and beautiful, and he saw
preparations going forward for a grand
celebration of Pioneer Day in the Big Cot-
tonwood Canyon, he was fain to accom-
pany them, regardless of a former resolu-
tion to stay at home. He did not decide,
however, until the army of merry-makers
had fairly started on their journey. The
inspiring sounds of various martial and
brass bands made his bosom swell with a
feeling unknown before. The sight of the
long procession of wagons, carriages, caval-
ry and foot-passangers, old and young,
brought a lump into his throat and tears to
his eyes, though he knew not why. Per-
haps it brought to his mind forcibly, the ac-
counts he had been reading of the long
exodus of these self-same people from the
fertile East, to the barren West. What-
ever the cause, the feeling was there and
he was not able to quell it. There were
few people left in the town, and it looked
lonely and deserted. Grace had gone; he
had caught the first glimpse of her face since
he had parted from her, as she rode by in
her father’s wagon. He had just presence of
mind enough to bow, but for the life of him
he could not call up even the ghost of a
smile. He fancied, too, that she looked
sad and troubled, but then, he thought,
it might be only his imagination. As he
stood debating in his mind whether to go
or stay, the words of Grace uttered at
their last meeting came to him, “And if I
grant it,” (her pardon for his last offence)
“what guarantee have I that the same
scene will not be re enacted on the very
next holiday.” The words had stung him
at the time, as the truth is apt to do.
They stung him yet, so much so that the
thought decided him. He would go, and
prove to Grace that he could and would
behave himself, even on so hilarious an oc-
casion as a twenty-fourth of July celebra-
tion. In a short time he had his horse sad-
dled and was cantering after the retreating
train.
	“Why John,” said his mother, as he
drew rein beside his father’s wagon, “I
thought you were not coming.” But not-
withstanding her words, the light of pleas-
ure beamed from her loving eyes upon her
son as she spoke
	“Well mother mine,” he responded
cheerfully, “you see when you were all
gone and everything looked so lonely, I
couldn’t resist the temptation to come after
you, and here I am.”
	“You always did go after your mother
when you were a little shaver, so I guess
you hav’nt changed so much after all,”
said his father, with a kind smile.
	“We’re glad to have you along any
how,” said his mother. “That’s true,”
responded his father, “and so long’s
you’re after your mother, you won’t get
into mischief that’s certain.”
	There was a pleasant laugh all around at
this broad compliment of a loving husband
to a devoted wife, and all jogged along
merrily to a place selected for a camping
place, at the mouth of the canon. Then
came the bustle of camp life, the unhitch-
ing of teams, gathering of wood, making
of fires and preparations for supper. But
there was no excitement, no jarring, no
accidents; all moved along harmoniously
and peacefully, every age, sex and condi-
tion seeming to plume themselves for the
exigencies of the occasion. After supper
there was music and singing, story telling
and recounting of old scenes until the call
for prayers put an end to them and all re-

[Column 2]
tired for the night. The next morning
after an early breakfast, the vast company
prepared to ascend the long, rough narrow,
winding passage, known as “the stairs.”
In all of the duties devolving upon the
men and boys of the company, John
took an active part. And even in the
more feminine tasks of cooking and wash-
ing dishes, he might be seen lending a
hand when nothing more serious claimed
his attention. The strange part of it was
that he took pleasure in it. Never before
could he be persuaded to take part in any
public enterprise of the kind, even by his
presence; and here he was, the busiest of
the busy, flying around here and there, his
finger in every pie and his heart in the
whole thing.
(Continued)


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM CANADA.

Editor Exponent:
	THINKING a few lines from our far distant
home to yourself and my dear sisters, as
my interest in them and yourself does not
diminish with distance, I will assume that
your feelings for us are reciprocated.
	Our journey was pleasant and unevent-
ful, but it required a struggle on my part to 
leave my dear mother, under the existing 
circumstances that seemed almost impera-
tive for me to remain with her; but the
presence of my son Joseph I felt would 
somewhat palliate our separation.
	It is needless to state the meeting at this 
end of the road was a joyful one. It was
with feelings of deep humility and grati-
tude that I received the love and respect 
and he rty welcome of my many friends
here.
	As you know, Sister Josephine Booth
of Provo accompanied me home, and it was
a source of satisfaction that nature had
clothed herself in her loveliest robes of
green and verdant flowers to mark her
arrival and pre-dispose her in favor of our
far northern home as agreeably as possible.
	She has already commenced to fulfill my
anticipations with regard to the blessing
she would be to our dear girls here, who
have not the advantages afforded them, as
in many of the larger and older cities.
	We have introduced a Physical Culture
class in our Young Ladies Association em-
bracing the course as given in our new 
guide.
	The Relief Society is still looking after
the interests and welfare spiritually and
temporally of the sisters of this locality,
there are comparatively few who require
financial assistance, but there are many who
are willing and able to assist in sickness,
of which we have very little, or aid in the
many benevolent enterprises to keep means
in our treasury.
	We have organized one new society in
the last year that is composed principally of
young married sisters, who do themselves
the favor of being active members in both
Relief Society and Improvement Associa-
tions. ***
	Yesterday was our national holiday
which was celebrated in a primitive and 
hearty manner, as it was in Utah long
years ago. Speeches, songs, firing of guns,
brass band, hearty good humor, were lead-
ing features of the day. At night the
Pioneer Dramatic Company gave a spirited 
and enjoyable entertainment, with two

[Column 2]
plays entitled “Among the Breakers” and
“The Dentist’s Clerk.”
	It is a matter of surprise the amount of 
talent and excellent ability that seems to be
the natural inheritance of the children of
the Saints. Our Base Ball team played a
match game with the team from Leth-
bridge, in which local talent scored a de-
cided success.
	We have been blessed with copious
showers of rain, which give us almost an
assurance of excellent crops and ample
food for the coming winter for our stock
on the range.
	The sisters join in love and esteem for
yourself and members of the Central Board, 
and hope at some future time they may
have the pleasure of a visit from them in person.
	Ever wishing the EXPONENT success,
I remain,,		Your sister
				ZINA Y. CARD.


ERRATTA.

Editor Woman's Exponent:

	In the issue of June 1, a sketch of the
life and labors of Sister Isabella Pratt
Price is given. Please publish the follow-
ing corrections and omissons: Bishop J.
C. Hamilton, instead of Bishop J. C. Han-
son, and the word “Mill Creek” Salt
Lake Co. after the words “Feb. 25, 1897,”
in the second line.		And oblige,
			FRANCES H. HANSON.


COOKING RECIPES.

Green Gooseberry Catchup.
	8 lb. gooseberries, 4 lb. brown sugar, 2 
lemons sliced, 1 qt. vinegar, 1 tablespoonful 
each of allspice, cloves and mace.

DIRECTIONS.

	Disolve the sugar and spices, put on the
stove and let come to a boil, then add the
gooseberries and lemon, boil slowly three
hours; when done take out lemons and
strain, then lay the lemon on the top of the
can.


OUR NEAR NEIGHBORS.

	POCATELLO seems to be advancing along
the lines of moral reform. When it was
announced that the anti-gambling law
does not apply to drinks, nickle-in-the-
slot machines and other devices for fleecing
the unwary, the city council of Pocatello
promptly passed an ordinance prohibiting
them.
	GRADUALLY women are beginning to
come to the front in matters pertaining to
the education of children. In Bear Lake
County three women have recently been
elected school trustees. Mrs. W. C. Cole
was elected in Paris; Mrs. Joseph Jones in
Montpelier, and Mrs. James E. Hart in
Bloomington. We sincerely hope these
good women will show that they have a
higher appreciation of the responsibilities
attaching to the office of school trustee than
most men have. Men often do not become
enthusiastic workers in an office which
pays nothing but honor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
VICTORIA.

I.
HAIL, all hail Victoria! England’s royal Queen,
The noblest and the best the world has ever
	seen;
All hail thy Jubilee, honored woman, mother, 
	wife,—
Thy charms grow even sweeter and rarer with
	thy life.
Nations arise and hail the auspicous day,
For peace o’er England’s land holds universal
	sway.
Her shores round all the earth by many ships
	are found,
And the radiant sun sets not, beyond her imperi-
	al bound.
Great is England! and of her Sovereign proud,
	And rousing cheers of greeting arise from many
	a crowd,—
Long live Victoria! a woman brave yet meek,
Who mercy grants to all deserving, who her pre-
	sence seek.
Women of En land! speak on this glorious day,
Sing to all the world this glad and joyful lay!
The scepter held in a woman’s tender hand,
Has quelled the flame of War that maddened
	winds have fanned.
O, England’s royal Queen! so dear to every
	heart—
Such tender thoughts awaken, that cause the
	tears to start,
Thy sacred vow fulfilling—“My people shall be
	free,”—
They to thy yearning bosom are closely held by
	thee.
They are thy thought, and they thy slumbers
	wake,
Just and kindly laws made f r thy subject’s sake,
Endear thee to thy people, who loving homage
	pay,
And all implore their God, the tyrant’s hand to
	stay.
Faith in thy father’s God through all thy length-
	ened years,
Thrills through the thinking world, and Nations
	move to tears.
II.
A girl so young and fair, and by the world un-
	known—
Yes in thy youth, wast called to sit upon a throne;
Yet splendor, envy, nor one besetting sin,
Has ever made thy crown or jewels shine more
	dim;
No thought of wealth nor greatness, or power
	came to thee,
But heavy on thy heart, the great responsibility,
Brought out thy woman’s nature even in the day,
When England’s maids and matrons frittered time
	away;
Shadowed in thy mind and hov’ring round thy
	heart,
Were omens of the sadness, that of thy life formed
	part;
And though a girl, not thoughtless, but serious
	for thy years,
Came glimmering o’er thy future, the mist that
	falls in tears.
III.
A wife! gaze all the world upon this precious
	gem,
That sparkles brightest in her royal diadem!
Loving, faithful, ever mourning her Albert dead,
Elects alone, the varied paths of life to tread,
Her heart cry, “I love those who long loved 
	thee,
And where they are I often long to be;
When to the grave they’re slowly borne away,
I too will follow, if perchance I may.
Albert I am true to thee, my love, my love,
Most precious thought, all earthly things above;
I wait the summons that long delayed shall come,
’Twill call me hence away to my unknown

[Column 2]
	home.—
Then we shall meet, again clasp loving hands,
And wander by the sea, upon the golden sands,
Again the love of youth, the music and the joy,
For which my heart has yearned, unmixed with
	earth’s alloy,
Will crown our happy lives, that Death can part
	no more.
For life is everlasting on that Elysian shore.”
IV.
A mother! all the world looks up in pride to 
	thee;
And loving speaks of thy sweet simplicity;
Thy wisdom, meekness, pure and holy thought,
To England and to children a precious boon has
	brought.
Victoria! would that every mother, over every
	land.
Their children in obedience so strictly would
	command.
Thy counsel “Though Princes born to such a
	mighty realm,
Serve God, for of thy lives He is at the helm;
Love Him, honor him, thy mother ne’er forsake,
And for the world live not alone—then of His
	peace partake.”
Thy children’s children, even generations three,
Thou hast caressd and fondled on thy mother
	knee,
Thy words so full of wisdom given in youthful
	days,
Have turned their lives in faith, to walk in Virtue’s
	ways.
These children too, are jewels that sparkle in thy
	crown
Thy mother’s crown so glorious and grand in
	world’s renown—
There may they shine forever, until the perfect
	day,
And be thy precious jewels when thy crown is
	given away.
All things must fade, and change comes to us all!
The mist comes down in rain drops, even plea-
	sures pall;
The Monarch on his throne, prone in the dust
	must lie
While Winter’s wind or Summer’s breeze ever
	wakes a sigh.
Proud Ambition too must fall, totter to the earth,
Locked close within her circling arms—she who
	gave us birth.
We leave behind to others the cottage or the
	throne,
And lost on changing breezes falls our last sad
	moan.
V.
This day all hail to England! Mistress of the seas!
Whose flag so proudly floats on every ocean’s
	breeze;
All the world is gazing, they all the glories see,
And in future ages behold thy grandest destiny.
Thy poets sing thy greatness, and thy statesmen 
	too,
Tell of thy future prowess wherever skies are
	blue;
Thy ships sail the ocean, thine armies tent the
	land,
And “Live, Long live Victoria” is played by
	every band.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Written for the Utah Woman’s Press Club for
the Queen’s Jubilee, June, 1897.


[Column 1]
THE SHIP BROOKLYN.

CAPTAIN RICHARDSON.
	[Chartered by Samuel Brannan left New
York harbor on the 6th of Feb. 1846 en
route for California. List of passengers
on board the Brooklyn.]

[Column 2]
	S. Brannan, lady and child; Frances M.
Corwin; Robert Smith, lady and two
children; Wm. Atherton and lady; Q. S.
Sparks, lady and child. Mary Hamilton.
Cyrus Irae; J. M. Horner and lady; E. W.
Pell, lady and two children; Samuel John-
son; Emeline A. Lane; Wm. Evans, lady
and four children; Jonathan Griffith, lady
and two children; M. A. Meader, lady and
child; Peter, Mary and Elizabeth Poole;
Jonathan Cade and lady; Wm. Stout, lady
and child; Isaac Leigh and lady; J. A. C.
Austin, lady and three children; Prudence
Aldrich, son and daughter; Angeline M.
Lovett; Lucy Nutting; Barton Morey,
lady and two sons; Dan Stark, lady and 
two children; Mary Murray; Isabella
Jones; Joseph Nichols, lady and child;
Thomas Tompkins, lady and two children;
Henry Rowland and son; Sophia P. Clark;
Wm. Kettleman, lady and six children;
George Kettleman; Joseph Hicks; Richard
Knowles and lady; Robert Petch, lady
and two children; Elisha Hyatt, lady and
son; John Phillipps; Jerusha Ensign and
son; Eliza Savage; Jerusha H. Fowler and
four children; John R. Robbins, lady and
two children; George R. Winner, lady and
six children; Newel Boylen, lady and
three children; John Joyce, lady and child;
Zelnora S. Snow; Jacob Hays; James
Light, lady and child; Earl Marshall and
lady; Simeon Stivers; Caroline Warner and
three children; H. A. Skinner, lady and
child; James Scott; A. L. D. Buckland;
Hannah D. Buckland; Hannah T. Read
and child; John Eager; Patrick Mclue,
lady and four children; Isaac Goodwin,
lady and six children; Nathan Burr and
lady; Edwin Kemble; Charles C. Burr,
lady and child; George W. Sirrine; Abram
Combs, lady and three children; Mercy M.
Narrowmore and child; John Reed; Chris-
tiana Reed; Isaac Addison, lady and
daughter; Orrin Smith, lady and six child-
ren; John Thomas and Sarah Kettleman;
Joseph R. and Mary Ann Fisher; Lucy
Eager and three children; Mary Eager;
George Still, lady and three children; Wm.
Glover, lady and three children; Jesse A.
Stringfellow; A. G. Haschal; Ambrose T.
Moses, lady and four children; Isaac Rob-
bins, lady and two children; John Sirrine.
LIST OF DEATHS ON BOARD THE SHIP.
	Feb. 14th the infant son of Joseph Nichols,
aged 2 years 18 days. Buried same day at 11
o'clock a. m. in Lat. 37 N., Long. 20 W.
	Feb. 20, 6 o’clock p. m. Elias Ensign died, aged
57 years, 5 months. Buried next day at 11 a. m.
in Lat. 19 30 N., Long. 26 W.
	Saturday Feb. 28, son of John R. Robbins d ed
at 10 o’clock p. m., of scarlet fever, aged 2 years
and ten days. Buried in Lat. 316 N. Long. 25 W.
	March 6, the son of John Fowler, aged 1 year,
7 months and 28 days.
	March 7, 6 o’clock a. m., of consumption, Miss
Eliza Ensign, aged 20 years, 8 months and 17
days. Lat. 3 S. Long 27 W.
	March 14 10 o’clock a. m., son of John R. Rob-
bins died of consumption, aged 1 year, 5 months
and 16 days. Lat. 15.30 S, Long. 32 W.
	March 26, Edward Miles one of the ship’s crew.
	March 27, 2 o’clock a. m., the daughter of
George R. Winner died of cankered sore throat,
aged 6 months 7 days.
	April 1, 2 o’clock p. m., Silas Aldrich died of
dropsy, aged 43 years, 8 months and 20 days.
Buried at a.m. next day in Lat. 43 S. Long. 47 W.
	May 6, Mrs. Laura Goodwin died, aged 32 years,
11 months and 23 days. Her death was occa-
sioned by a fall, she left seven children. Buried
Juan Fernandez.
	A male child born before doubling the Cape
was called Atlantic and a female born this side
was called Pacific. A. J. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count [-]to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY JULY 15 & AUGUST 1, 1897


[Column 1]
A MEMORABLE MONTH OF JULY.

	THE mouth of July 1897 will long be
remembered as one of unusual events in
Utah, commemorating the advent of the
pioneers of 1847, emphazing in strong
terms their arrival and the attendant cir-
cumstances, and also the growth and pro-
gress of these vales and the intermountain
region and the industries and institutions
thereof. More history could scarcely be
made in a month in the record of events and
reminiscences than in this one, which in a
sense has been typical of the half century
just past. That this people and this nation
are just upon the eve of great events that
are to transpire, also seems to have be-
come a truism. A sense of uneasiness, of
restlessness and lack of confidence largely
prevails in the midst of the people, and
look at it as we will a change of some sort
seems imperative.
CORNER STONE.
	ON Thursday July 1st the corner stone
of the Brigham Young monument was
laid with all due ceremony and observances;
the place chosen at last after much indeci-
sion was at the head and in the centre of
Main St. on South Temple, the services
began at five o’clock. The streets near
and all available space was crowded with
people. Hon. James Sharp announced the
opening exercises. The Tabernacle choir
chorus sang “An Ode to Brigham Young”
composed by Prof. Evan Stephens, Prof.
Anton Pederson’s band joined in the ac-
companiment; President Snow offered an
appropriate prayer, then “America” was
rendered by the choir and band, which
seemed very inspiring to the assemblage of
people. Hon. Franklin D. Richards de-
livered the oration which was an eloquent
effort setting forth concisely, yet complete
and full, the great work accomplished by
Brigham Young in whose honor, together
with other pioneers living and dead, the
statue was being erected.
	Governor H. M. Wells then gave a short
paper which was more practical, not deal-
ing so much with history, but full of
momentous facts. Mayor Glendenning
came next, his remarks were a graceful
tribute to the true pioneers. The deposit-
ing of the leaden box containing the
treasures by President Wilford Woodruff,
the oldest living pioneer, was next in
order; the box contained names of the
Pioneers engraved on a copper plate, en-
graved likenesses of Presidents Wilford
Woodruff, George Q. Cannon and Joseph

[Column 2]
F. Smith, and photograph of Franklin D.
Richards, historian. Two ivory paper
knives, the handles tipped with carved
likenesses of Joseph and Hyrum Smith and
in each knife the inscription, “A token of re
spect from Brother Juchau to Brother
Brigham.” They were given by Apostle
Brigham Young and were originally the
property of his father. A gold mounted
reading glass in a buckskin cover inclosed
in a tin case which belonged to President
Young; the mounting was of California
gold brought to Utah in an early day. On
the tin case is engraved, “This gold mount-
ed reading glass, buckskin cover and tin
case was carried and used by President
Brigham Young. It is a gift from his son,
Brigham Morris Young, to be put in the
foundation stone of the Pioneer monument
Salt Lake City Utah, June 28, 1897. En-
graver J. H. Harrison 81 years old.”
United States coins 1897—$5 gold and $1.
50 cts. and 10 cts. silver.”
	Apostle Brigham Young then ascended
the platform and spoke a few words of
thanks and appreciation and said: “In
behalf of the Brigham Young Memorial
Association I pronounce the corner stone of
this monument laid, and in behalf of Presi-
dent Woodruff and the other surviving
pioneers and the pioneers who have passed
away and the family of Brigham Young,
deceased.” The benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Henson Walker of the
first pioneers, after which a chorus of child-
ren sang a selection and three cheers were
given for the pioneers and the. monument.
CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORS.
	Beginning with near July 1st came the
band of Christian Endeavors from all parts
of the country; train load after train load
landed in the city, stopping to see the
sights and to attend one or two of their
meetings, and hastening on further West
to San Francisco and the Pacific coast.
Many hundreds of them were seeing the
West for the first time, and were agreeably
surprised with the progress towards the
civilization that they imagined only existed
in the Eastern states. On Sunday July 4th
the Christian Endeavor people held meet-
ings in the large Tabernacle in this city,
President Woodruff having kindly tendered
them the building as their representatives
in this city had no hall large enough to ac-
comodate the great number who were anx-
ious to attend. In the evening our own
people held service there with the Taber-
nacle choir, Evan Stephens in charge, the
building was filled to its utmost capacity.
The sermon by Elder C. W. Penrose was
strictly upon the first principles of the Gos-
pel and the divine nature thereof. He was
followed by President George Q. Cannon
who bore testimony to the same.
	It would seem only consistent to con-
clude that some of the listeners must have
been impressed by the sincere eloquence of
the speakers and genuine truths so ably
presented. At any rate we have reason to
hope that much of the absurd prejudice                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
formerly entertained by them may be re-
moved, and that they will speak of the
people as they found them, kind, generous
and hospitable to the strangers within their
gates.
THE TRANS-MISSISSIPPI CONGRESS,
	The arrangements made beforehand,
chiefly the work of the secretary, W. H.
Culmer, helped to make the coming of the

[Column 3]
Delegates to the Congress from a distance
feel more than welcome. The ladies attend-
ing with them were the especial care of a
committee of ladies from the several clubs
in the city and were agreeably entertained
during their visit. Bands of music were in
attendance to greet them the first morning
of their arrival, and the Assembly Hall was
resplendent with draping, banners, flags
and flowers. The Congress throughout
was interesting and instructive and all who
were present to witness the proceedings
and listen to the speeches made on sub-
jects of importance to our intermountain
country, as well as to all the world, must
have felt themselves greatly benefited with
the information there given, and also,
through discussions pro and con.
UNVEILING OF THE MONUMENT.
	The firing of cannon, opening of the
Jubilee festivities and exercises, began at 7
o’clock Tuesday morning, July 20; this
cannon was brought to Utah in 1847 by
the first company of pioneers, and was
previously famous for having done service
at New Orleans in 1812.
	At 8 o'clock the veterans of 1847 began
to gather on Pioneer Square (better known
as “Old Fort block.”) It was a scene
that baffles description. The Jubilee
colors helped to make the picture less som-
bre than it would have been.
	The veterans of ’47 were headed by
Dimick B. Huntington’s martial band of 22
instruments. There were 318 pioneers in
line when the march began; the ranks were
well interspersed with women, whose valor
was not surpassed by men in those early
days. The line of march led to the Brig-
ham Young monument. At 11 o’clock the
exercises of unveiling the monument be-
gan. Hon Wm. J. Bryan was present at
the ceremonies and was vigorously cheered
on his arrival. Governor Wells, Judge
Zane and Bishop Scanlan were prominent
in the assemblage, but the most conspicu-
ous and impressive personage of all was
President Wilford Woodruff, the venerable
Pioneer of 1847. Bishop O. F. Whitney
introduced by the Hon. Chairman of the
Semi-Centennial Committee, Spencer Claw-
son, read President Woodruff’s prayer
which opened the exercises.
	The ode to Brigham Young was render-
ed by the choir from the portico of the
Hall of Relics. James H. Moyle made the
presentation speech which was extempo-
raneous and closed with the words, “We
present it to the public, in the presence of his
Excellency the Governor of the State, a
worthy son of a noble sire and honored
pioneer of Utah.”
	The immense multitude burst into ap-
plause as President Woodruff arose, then
silence fell again and the honored veteran
of ninety years said in clear tones and
audible voice while the great multitude
was hushed in eager listening, “In the
name of God I now unveil this monu-
ment,”—and instantly the Stars and Stripes
began to unfold and fall away from the
granite column, revealing to the people the
heroic, bronze figure of the great Pioneer
leader Brigham Young.
	Governor Wells in an eloquent speech
accepted the monument in behalf of the
people of Utah—in honor of Brigham
Young and the pioneers. At the close of
the Governor’s able effort, David McKenzie
stepped to the front and led the multitude
in a hip-hip hurrah three times. Apostle


Brigham Young with evident emotion and
amid frequent applause made a very bril-
liant and telling speech. Hon. C. C. Good-
win’s speech came next and was a dazzling
literary effort of great brilliancy and pathos.
The choir sang “America,” and just then
a telegram from Mr. Dallas, the sculptor of
the statue, was received with only the
words ‘‘Best Wishes.” Bishop Scanlan of the
Catholic church pronounced the benedic-
tion.

THE PIONEERS OF 1847.

	THE commemoration of the advent of the
Pioneers of 1847, fifty years ago, has now
passed into history; to attempt to describe
it in its entirety would be futile unless one
gave time and thought suited to such a
momentous subject. Yet the writer feels
to make a passing remark and wait until a
subsequent issue to make any kind of a
satisfactory report of the Jubilee. That it
was a grand success in pageantry every one
must admit, but the pioneers themselves
were the principal object of attraction and
every one felt that too much honor could
not be shown to them. The gold medal
given each pioneer as a souvenir, was
unique in design and served to represent all
that could be implied by any badge of
honor. Everything in the way of display
and festivity that could add to the happi-
ness of the guests of the City was carried
out in the program.
	The original pioneers were too seriously
intent upon their mission when coming
hither to look forward to such a wonderful
celebration, or such honors as were be-
stowed in word and deed during the Jubi-
lee now just past.
	That President Wilford Woodruff has
lived to participate in the Jubilee of half a
century is something to be grateful for.
The Lord has prolonged his life to four
score and ten, and many marvelous things
have transpired during that period of time.
Perhaps no man living can comprehend all
that has taken place as he can. That he
may be spared to this people while life is
dear to him, and until he desires to go
home to meet Joseph and Hyrum and the
Apostles on the other side is doubtless the
prayer offered in faith unto the Lord by
every Latter-day Saint.


WOMAN'S EXPONEN[-]


[Column 1]
TERESA CRAWSON WELLS.

IN the heart of Summer she passed away,
When earth was crowned with the fairest
flowers,
To dwell in the realm of immortal day,
And roam ’mid the bright Elysian bowers—
In that land where ete[-]nal summer reigns,
And the fountain of youth perennial springs;
Where music divine in its lofti[-]st strains
Through ages on ages exultantly rings.
	It is a painful duty to write of those we
love who have passed away from earth,
and especially so when one’s own heart is
filled with the sorrow of the parting; but
such entries must be made in the book of
life and left on record, that the name and
works of the deceased may be known in
the generation in which they lived. And
therefore, as one of a number of Utah’s
fairest daughters departed, we offer a
tribute of love to Teresa Clawson Wells,
the beloved wife of Governor Heber M.
Wells and daughter of H. B. and Sister

[Column 2]
Margaret G. Clawson of this city. As a
child the writer remembers Teresa as very
beautiful in face and figure, fair as a lily,
with long golden curls, and better still,
gentle in all her ways and beloved by her
associates for her unselfishness and amiabili-
ty. When quite young she came upon the
stage in the Home Dramatic company in
such parts as were suited to her tender
years, and was a great favorite with thea-
tre-goers, and as she grew to womanhood
she manifested considerable talent in the
histrionic art and seemed a part of the home
company though she did not follow the
stage professionally. She always had ex-
quisite taste in dress in all its details, and
her entire personality was charming to a
rare degree. She had great adaptability
and wonderful tact, both of which qualities
help one in making enduring friendships.
She was a devoted daughter and an affec-
tionate sister, and naturally a sort of leader
in her own family and among her friends;
and with the circle in which she moved she
pleased without an effort, really perhaps
because of the strong underlying sympathy
of her refined nature. Mrs. Wells died in
the very bloom of womanhood in the midst
of a life rich in all that tends to human
happiness, and when one meditates on
such a death, one cannot but say His ways
are not as man’s ways.
	On July 8th, in the morning at 7:30,
after suffering severely and with great
patience and fortitude almost beyond hu-
man endurance, Mrs. Wells worn out with
pain and physical exhaustion finally suc-
cumbed to the inevitable, and the bright
spirit freed from its earthly tabernacle pass-
ed from the loving husband and relatives
gathered around the bedside; but there is
no doubt she joined that innumerable com-
pany” on the other shore where there
were many to greet her who had known
and loved her in life here upon the earth.
Mrs. Wells was an exceptionally devoted
wife, a tender and true mother and well
calculated to entertain and do honor to the
position of her husband as the Chief Execu-
tive of the State.
	The funeral services of Mrs. H. M.
Wells were conducted at the residence of
her mother, 72 N. State St. (whither she
had been moved during her illness) at 4 p.
m. on Sunday July 11, 1897. The house
was beautifully decorated with flowers,
roses predominating, though there were
lilies and carnations in profusion, emblems
of innocence and expressions of love from
hearts overflowing with sorrow for the de-
parted companion, relative and friend.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney presided and
Elder H. G. Whitney had charge of the
music. The singers were Elders R. C.
Easton, H. G. Whitney, H. S. Goddard
and J. D. Spencer with Elder C. S. Burton
organ accompanist. The services opened
with “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers,” and after prayer by Counselor
Robert Patrick R. C. Easton sang “O My
Father” in his mellow and tender tenor.
Bishop Whitney made some consoling and
sympathetic remarks, after which H. S.
Goddard sang in full, rich tones, with
much expression the solo “She is not dead
but sleepeth.” President Jos. F. Smith
delivered a powerful discourse and exhor-
tation upon the principle's of eternal life.
The singers rendered “When the swallows
homeward fly,” and benediction was pro-
nounced by Counselor Wm. Barton.
	When the long train of carriages reached

[Column 3]
the cemetery the quartette sang “Rest on
the hillside rest,” and the resting place of
the remains of Mrs. Wells was dedicated by
Apostle John Henry Smith. The elegant
white casket which had been borne by her
brothers was lowered, and the mound of
earth when covered was strewn with the
fragrant flowers in every conceivable de-
sign of workmanship. Mrs. Wells was
literally buried in flowers. What can be
said to those nearest and dearest thus be-
reaved? Truly God can comfort through
His Holy Spirit.
“Oh, when the heart is full, when bitter thoughts
Come crowding thickly up for utterance,
And the poor common words of courtesy
Are such a very mockery,
How much the bursting heart
May pour itself in prayer.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE young women should read the
story now being published as a serial in the
EXPONENT by Clio. She is a young wo-
man Utah born, of good literary ability,
and will make herself well known yet as a
writer.
	THE next issue of the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT will be in all its main features a
Jubilee Number, and we shall endeavor to
make it as attractive as possible; the sis-
ters will, we hope and trust, consider what
this little paper has done for the women of
Utah and for the adjacent states and terri-
tories in the past, and not forsake an old
friend for a new. Make as many new friends
as you can but cling to the old ones who have
have been true in adversity as well as pros-
perity, and remember newspapers are not
published without money.
	THE Utah silk commission accomplished
the making of two silk flags for the Jubilee
which were used in the parade on the
memorable 24th of July. The flags were
of genuine home-made silk, cocoons raised
and silk reeled right here in the city—the
reeling was done by two young girls, Miss
Florence Harrison and Miss Maria Hor-
rocks, and the entire work was done, and
the flags were made under the direction of
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, whose untiring
efforts in the matter of silk culture deserves
public recognition. One of the flags was
displayed by the Governor’s staff and the
other just next to President Woodruff’s
carriage.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	ON Monday afternoon June 28, a few
sisters were invited by the youngest daugh-
ter (Zina Hyde Bull) of Sister Marinda N.
Hyde deceased and the late Apostle Orson
Hyde, to assemble at the home of Brother
and Sister Bull in this city in honor of Sis-
ter Bull’s mother and some of her dear old
friends. The parlor and other rooms adja-
cent were beautifully decorated with flow-
ers from their own garden and yard and
were delightful to see and also very
fragrant. The welcome was genuine and
the hostess as radiant as a summer morning.
Greetings over the guests naturally fell
back upon old times in Kirtland, Missouri
and Nauvoo, and many things were called
to mind which were new to the younger
women. Later on supper was announced
and the five o’clock tea was delicious,


though very few indeed of the guests
took tea; ice cream, strawberries and cake,
after several other courses of more substan-
tial viands, and the enjoyment was
heightened by the easy flow of conversa-
tion, much of it relating to Sister Hyde
whose natal day was memorialized in com-
ing together. Twelve years before we had
been invited by the one whose memory we
were perpetuating. At the tea table were
Sisters Jane B. Taylor, wife of President
John Taylor, Mary Ann Hyde, wife of
Apostle Orson Hyde, Zina D. H. Young
wife of President Brigham Young, Bath-
sheba W. Smith wife of Apostle George A
Smith, and Sisters M. Isabella Horne,
Sarah M. Kimball, Julia C. Howe, Emme-
line B. Wells, Annie T. Hyde, Lydia D.
Alder, Maria Y. Dougall and Phebe Y.
Beatie, Martia Hyde and Ida Felt.
	In the evening Brother Bull and Brother
Aurelius Miner came in, also Brother
Joseph Bull Jun. and his wife and a little
meeting was held with singing, prayer and
speaking, and the gifts of the Gospel were
manifest.
	Brother and Sister Bull who have only
been married a few months received many
hearty congratulations from the guests,
with every good wish for their prosperity
and future happiness.
	Sister Marinda N. Hyde was a conspic-
uous figure in the early days of the
Church, and was always greatly admired
for her sterling integrity to the Gospel
through great trials, and in herself possess-
ed an attractive personality. She was per-
haps unsurpassed as a housekeeper of “the
old school;” she had wonderful executive
ability and was a wise and prudent Presi-
dent of the 17th Ward Relief Society for
about twenty years. Her example is
worthy of emulation by the daughters of
Zion in all those attributes and virtues
which make a woman of strong and re-
markable character.


WOMAN’S 	EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MEMORIAL SERVICES

OF THE MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
JOSEPH AND PATRIARCH HYRUM SMITH.

	ON Sunday evening the 27th of June,
very impressive services were rendered by
the Sabbath School of the 2nd Ward in the
ward meeting house, the occasion being
the anniversary of the martyrdom of the
Prophet Joseph, fifty-three years ago. The
building was packed by an attentive con-
gregation, on whom a silent awe rested
throughout the exercises and the strictest
of attention was given.
	“Joseph Smith’s First Prayer” was
sung by the school. A prayer was offered
by Counselor Paul Olsen, followed by a
beautiful sacramental hymn, as that or-
dinarice was administered. Also a touch-
ing quartette by members of the School,
“Galilee,” Sister Jessie Malin being the
leading voice. Another quartette, “He
Knows” was beautifully sung by Brothers
John Robinson and Thomas Ashworth,
Sisters Dean Caine Alder and Nora Lynch.
	The Kindergarten class, Sister Amy B.
Lyman teacher, was represented by little
Vera Shimmons, who so clearly recited the
story of the little children who prayed for
the Prophet Joseph, when he said to his
guards “You can go home tonight, God
will hear the little children who have pray-
ed for me, and I shall be safe.”
	The Primary class, Sister Lena B. Davis

[Column 2]
teacher, was represented by little Hazel
White, a grand-daughter of Apostle Orson
Hyde, who recited a poem composed for
the occasion by her teacher; her costume
was that of a moss rosebud, and it was in
the flower garden of Sister S. M. Kimball
that the Prophet so admired this lovely
flower.
	The thrilling strains of “Praise to the
man who comuned with Jehovah’’ echoed
and re-echoed through the building as the
school sang the hymn. Sister Edith Lov-
sey of the Theological class gave the history
of Joseph until the Church was organized,
in a pleasing manner. She was followed
by Brother John H. Sainsbury, who related
the testimony of the “Three” and the
“Eight witnesses” to the validity of the
Book of Mormon, in a clear and forcible
voice.
	“O, My Father” was tenderly sung by
Sister Dean Caine Alder, Brother C. D.
Schettler very sweetly accompanying her
on the guitar. Brother C. Hyldahl fol-
lowed, describing in an impressive manner
the dedication of the Kirtland Temple and
the glorious visions given on that occasion.
Then the revered melody “A poor wayfar-
ing man of grief” softly fell upon the ear,
the congregation joining in the hymn.
The vision of the Prophet Joseph, Patriarch
Hyrum, Elders John Taylor and Willard
Richards incarcerated in the old jail at
Carthage, sadly rose to view. Brother
Taylor saying he felt a sense of oppression
as of impending danger, when the Prophet
requested him to sing the hymn a second
time. Thoughts and feelings were awaken-
ed that are so well known to the Latter-day
Saints.
	The martyrdom of the Prophet and
Patriarch was concisely and solemnly
given by the teacher of the Theology class,
Sister Lydia D. Alder. “Give me back
my prophet dear” was recited by Rida
Taylor, a grand-daughter of the late Presi-
dent Taylor. “Weep, weep not for me
Zion,” was feelingly sung by the school
and congregation, thus closing these grand
and solemn exercises. A few words ex-
pressing pleasure and giving encourage-
ment to the Sabbath School were given by
Counselor John Gallacha.
	By the kindness of Bishop L. D. Hardy
the use of the Ward hall was placed at the
disposal of the Sabbath School for the eve-
ning, for which the Superintendency ex-
tended many thanks, and urged the parents
to come to the Sunday School and assist in
teaching some of the classes, and encourage
the teachers by their presence.  
				GEORGE D. ALDER,
						Superintendent,
				JAMES HOOPER,
				JOHN STRINGAM,
						Assistants


[Column 1]
VISIT AND MEETINGS.

			MANTI. June 30.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	KNOWING your interest in Relief Soci-
ety work, I venture to send you a brief re-
port of this Stake of Zion.
	Two weeks ago our honored President,
M. A. Hyde, accompanied by her counsel-
ors began their annual tour of the county.
They left Manti early Wednesday morning
holding their initial meeting in Sterling at
10 a. m. The Relief Society of this place

[Column 2]
is few in number, but the president, Sister
Libbie Thompson, has the spirit of her
calling, and although having the usual
difficulties incident to isolated and scattered
communities to meet, she is doing a good
work.
	At 2:30 p. m. the sisters met with the
Relief Society of Mayfield in their com-
modious hall, which was well attended by
both old and young. Sister Olsen, the
president, has had much experience in Re-
lief Society work and is energetic and
judicious in the discharge of her duties.
	After enjoying the kindly hospitality of
the people of Mayfield till Thursday morn-
ing the party drove to Fayette, holding
meeting in the new Relief Society hall at 1
o’clock with nearly all the members pre-
sent, as well as the young ladies. The
president, Sister Eliza Bartholomew, was
for many years the energetic president of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of Fayette, and is keen-
ly alive to the duties of her present office
and has an efficient aid in her husband, the
worthy Bishop.
	The next appointment was at Gunnison
at 8 p. m. The weather was quite cold
and disagreeable, and the cheery pitch-pine
fire which greeted our entrance into
Bishop Madsen’s dining room was only
equaled by the warm welcome extended
by the Bishop and his wife, who is the
president of the Relief Society and is very
energetic in her field of labor	Our meet-
ing in the evening was well attended and
a good spirit prevailed. Friday morning
we visited South Gunnison and held meet-
ing at 10 o’clock, returning to Manti in the
afternoon. On Wednesday June 23, Sister
Hyde returned to Salt Lake City, feeling
unable to continue the journey around the
Stake.
	Her counselors, however, completed the
trip, beginning at Ephraim on Wednesday
morning at 10 a. m. The sisters were
much gratified that President Peterson was
able to meet with them and also join them
at dinner at the hospitable home of Sister
Ellen Dorius, the Senior Relief Society
president of Ephraim. The sisters of
Ephraim are still maintaining their old-
time reputation for faithfulness and good
works.
	Our next meeting was in Fairview at 8
p. m., which was well attended. Here as
in other wards we had visited we found the
sisters up and doing, and especially zealous
in storing grain. The president, Sister
Pritchett, is advanced in years and in feeble
health, but her hands are well sustained by
two faithful and energetic counselors, Sisters
Peterson and Tucker.
	Thursday morning we drove to Milburn
where we were kindly welcomed. Our
meeting was not so well attended as on
former occasions owing to sickness. How-
ever, a good spirit prevailed and the Presi-
dent, although she has a large family, al-
ways seems equal to the occasion. We left
our team at Milburn and took the train for
Indianola, held a short meeting with the
sisters there, returning to Milburn on the
south-bound train as we were due at Mt.
Pleasant in the evening. Our meeting in
this city was not so well attended as usual
owing to a large wedding reception which
was in progress and to which a large pro-
portion of the people were invited. The
president, Sister Morrison, in spite of her
advanced age and feeble health is an up-to-
date president, and is always among the
foremost to respond to every call, and is
diligent in good works.


Friday morning we met as per appoint-
ment with the good sisters of Moroni, who
have purchased a building lot and are con-
templating the erection of a Relief Society
hall. We also found them diligent all
along the lines of Relief Society work.
	In the evening we held meeting in
Fountain Green which was fairly well at-
tended in spite of a wedding reception at
which we were invited to be present at the
close of our meeting. We spent a very en-
joyable hour with the young people, and
were royally entertained. Sister Johnson,
the president, although advanced in years
is still diligent and energetic, and is plan-
ning to build a hall in the near future.
Altogether the Society seemed in a prosper-
ous condition.
	We left Fountain Green early Saturday
for Wales, where we arrived in good time for
our appointment. We were pleased to find
that the president, Sister Midgely, had
nearly recovered from a long illness. We
had an interesting meeting and a pleasant
visit with the sisters at the hospitable home
of Bishop Reese.
	We held our last meeting in Chester at
2:30. The president, Sister Olive Acord,
had been working at a disadvantage since
our last visit owing to the illness of one of
her counselors and the removal from town
of the other. The vacancy was filled, and
many encouraging words were spoken, and
altogether we had a very pleasant time.
	We returned home Saturday afternoon,
having traveled 107 miles and held fifteen
meetings in seven days.
	The necessity of sustaining the EXPO-
NENT was impressed upon the sisters in
every meeting, and the instructions were
in the line of cultivating greater faith and
humility, and the necessity of greater dili-
gence in attending the meetings of the
Society, and also the storing of grain, ad-
monition to the young etc
	The visit of Sisters Bathsheba Smith and
M. Isabella Horne at our recent Conference
in Spring City was greatly appreciated, and
the Bishop and the good sisters of Spring
City vied with each other in entertaining
the guests and otherwise contributing to its
success.		Your sister in the Gospel,
							A. L. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	IT becomes our painful duty to record the
death of one of the dear sisters of our Relief
Society, Sister Hulda Mariah Ho den Heath who
died in Thurber, Wayne Co., Utah, May 24, 1897.
She was born November 29, 1824 in Tenn. Wayne
Co., and received the Gospel in 1838 by George
P. Dykes. Emigrated to Nauvoo in 1841 and at-
tended the funeral of our dear, beloved prophet
and patriarch Joseph and Hyrum Smith. She
was married and with her husband received her
endowments in the Nauvoo Temple a few days
before President Brigham Young and Heber C
Kimball left Nauvoo to find a home for the
Saints. In the year 1851 they came to Salt Lake
valley and settled on the Weber river, until they
were called to go to the Southern settlements
and help to settle that part of the valley. They
were faithful in the dischargeof their duties and
finally settled in Thurber, Wayne Co., Utah.
	Sister Heath was a kind and loving wife and
mother, and died firm in the faith of a glorious
resurrection. She was the mother of ten child-
ren, three sons and seven daughters, sixty one
grandchildren, and twelve great-grandchildren.
			SARAH G. MEEKS, Pres’t.
			MARY A. GARDNER, Ass’t. Sec’y.


R. S. REPORTS.

THATCHER, ARIZONA.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society of Thatch-


er ward, Arizona, held June 3, 1897,
President Elizabeth Moody presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing. Prayer was offered
by Patriarch Phileman Merrill. Singing.
There were present of the Stake Presidency
President Willmirth East, Mary Ransom
and Serena Merrill, her counselors. Roll
called, forty-four officers and members pre-
sent. Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved.
	President Elizabeth Moody made opening
remarks. President Willmirth East spoke
words of comfort and encouraged the sis-
ters in all good works. Said our trials
were to purify and exalt us, tried to im-
press upon the sisters the necessity of tak-
ing and reading the EXPONENT.
	Counselor Mary Ransom said, “Think
of the magnitude of the work these branch-
es of the Relief Society are accomplishing.
She exhorted all to be diligent in their
labors.
	Counselor Serena Merrill said she heard
the Prophet Joseph Smith say we could not
realize the greatness of the work. By per-
forming our duty we should have joy and
satisfaction in our labors, and strength to
bear all our trials. She had never felt a
doubt as to the divinity of Joseph Smith
and the truth of this work.
	Counselor Elizabeth Layton bore her
testimony and spoke very feelingly of the
long illness of President Christopher Lay-
ton. Patriarch Phileman Merrill addressed
the sisters; spoke on the duties of mothers
and said children should be taught at home
obedience, truth and virtue.
	Sister Mary C. Cluff spoke of the energy
and willingness of the sisters of Thatcher
in performing their duties.
	Bishop Samuel Claridge spoke of Sister
Moody’s good works, as she had faithfully
performed her duty for a great many years.
She was now going to Utah on a visit for
two years. It being necessary to appoint
some one to fill the vacancy during her ab-
sence, Sister Maria McRae was unanimous-
ly sustained in that position.
	President Elizabeth Moody wished the
good will of the Bishop and sisters during
her absence while in Provo. Felt well in
her labors and exhorted all to be united
and diligent.
	A great many of the sisters from other
wards were present in honor of Sister
Moody’s departure, as she is widely
known and respected. Our sisters in
Thatcher are among the first in charitable
acts. Recently a brother and sister had the
misfortune to have their home burned; they
came readily to their assistance, as within
twenty-four hours they received $140.75 for
their aid.
	At the close of the meeting ice cream and
refreshments were served to all present by
the Relief Society. Altogether it was a
very enjoyable time.
		SELENA PHILLIPS, Sec’y.
		DIANA J. ALLEN, Ass’t. Sec’y.


[Column 1]
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Quarterly Conference
of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society held
in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, June 26,
1897, President M. I. Horne presiding.
On the stand were her counselors, A. T.
Hyde and C. C. Cannon, Sisters B. W.
Smith, E. S. Taylor, M. W. Wilcox, Julia
C. Howe, L. D. Alder and E. J. Stevenson.
Opened by singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Prayer by Sister S. Gibson. Sing-

[Column 2]
ing “We thank Thee O, God for a pro-
phet.” Minutes of last Conference read
and accepted.
	President Horne said she was glad to
greet the sisters this morning, but
was sorry to see so many absent. The
country wards were poorly represented,
they should try and send a representative,
the conference was only once in three
months and we should be willing to spend
a few hours in serving God, He was the
Author of our being and all the good things
we enjoy, it seemed that our religious
duties were of a secondary consideration.
We should be spiritual minded in our
homes and let our husbands and children
feel its influence, our homes should be
happy homes where we cultivated His spir-
it. She had been on a visit to the South
with her children and grandchildren and
had a nice time, had spoken in public at
Richfield, was urged by her children to
stay but felt if was her duty to attend the
Conference at home, and had sacrificed her
feelings to be present. Said that the bless-
ings that were easily gained are not appre-
ciated as much as those that are harder to
get. She had visited at American Fork
and had attended the officers meeting, their
reports were excellent and the meeting was
filled.
	Verbal reports from all the city branch-
es of R. S. were given. President E. S. Taylor
of theY. L. M. I. A. said she was pleased
to hear the good reports of the Society; she
wished to keep in touch with the Relief
Society. In her travels was often asked to
speak in their meetings and realized their
duties were arduous. She knew all the
ins and outs of the financial affairs, had
been secretary a twenty-eight years. The
Society developed the sisters in charitable
works, and made them better Latter-day
Saints. Felt when she saw the aged sis-
ters tottering to the stand they should be
made honorary presidents and younger
ones take their places. The Prophet
Joseph was inspired when he organized this
Society. The young girls should be identi-
fied with the Society and help nurse the
sick, instead of the aged sisters. The work
of the Relief Society was spreading intel-
lectually as well as spiritually; said may
God help us to perform our duties. Closed
by singing “Do what is right.” Benedic-
tion by Maria W. Wilcox.
	AFTERNOON SESSION. Opened by sing-
ing “How firm a foundation.” Prayer by 
E. Webb. Singing “The Spirit of God.”
The presence of President Zina D. H.
Young, Sisters S. M. Kimball and Rachel
Grant was added to the stand, the meeting
was largely attended and a few country
wards reported. President Horne gave
some instructions and said she wished her
voice could reach every Society in Israel
and stir them up. felt many were wearing
out but their spirits were just as active. It
was a great labor for the aged sisters to car-
ry on this Society, and felt the young sis-
ters should have an interest in the work, gave
nstructions to the secretaries in having
the new forms, and sending in their reports
promptly.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde said she was
pleased to see the old faces as well as a
few young ones, and felt the Relief Society
sisters were the salt of the earth. A work
of love and good should interest all, was
interested in the report of the Fifteenth
ward, it was beautiful to hear the testi
monies and reports and felt the young sis


[Column 1]
ters should be engaged in the work of
charity, the presence of the young would
cheer the older ones. Prayed for all the
presidents.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said she felt
weak to give instruction to her sisters, but
felt it was a grand work to be engaged in.
The young sisters did not see anything pro-
gressive in the Society, but in a few years
they would testify to the good it had done
them. Felt pleased in listening to the re-
ports, it was profitable to us to make an
effort to attend our meetings, we were
strengthened for other duties. Prayed for
the aged sisters that were getting infirm,
they had lived near the Lord and were
growing old beautifully, let us sustain them
by our faith aud prayers.
	B. W. Smith had been happy in hearing
the reports and remarks. She had been
fifty-five years in the work and was not
weary yet. The first meeting she attended
she was taught to embroider, and it had-
brought her in many a dollar since. She
had learned more of her religion at the
Society than any other place, learned to be
liberal to the poor and care for the living
and the dead, would like to see our ranks
filled up and more join in the good work.
Testified to Joseph Smith’s mission.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball said she felt
like talking an hour. The Relief Society
was organized after the pattern of the Holy
Priesthood, said when she saw Aunt Zina
walk in and saw how feeble she looked,
she asked herself where was the faith in the
Relief Society, why cannot our faith be so
strong that we can ask our Heavenly Father
to build her up and make her strong? We
should live near to God and do our part
well, she had been connected with the Fif-
teenth ward Society forty-five years, the
young people think our Society is not pro-
gressive enough. Spoke of President
Brigham Young organizing the Retrench-
ment Society and calling his young girls
together and giving them instruction, felt
the young people were being led instead of
being leaders.
	President Zina D. H. Young felt we had
been feasted and the Spirit of God was
here, every heart knew what was right.
Joseph Smith had turned the key for wo-
men. The young ladies would yet con-
sider it an honor to belong to the Society, we
needed wisdom to talk to our children, be
cheerful and happy. Felt to rejoice in the
Gospel and hoped to hold out to the end. 
Sister Rachel Grant was pleased to be
here, but had not heard one word, but
knew the good spirit had been here. Felt
to express her gratitude for her son’s recov-
ery, had the assurance that he would be re-
stored, and his recovery had been a testi-
mony to him and his children. Spoke of
her pleasant association with her sisters
and felt to acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in all things, and spoke of the kind-
ness her son had received at the Hospital
and from the Sister Superior especially.
Prayed for the blessings of God on all.
	Sister Horne said the Spirit had been
poured out on the speakers. She said we
needed the aged sisters to balance the
young, they had stood the trials, mobbings
and drivings and had been proven while the
young ones were led by pleasures aud ex-
citement, the proper spirit leads us to be
quiet and simple. Spoke on the calamities
abroad and preparing for the great events 
that were coming; spoke on storing grain
and preparing for a day of need. Prayed

[Column 2]
for blessings to rest upon all that we may
realize the importance of our mission. 
Adjourned for three months by signing 
“Praise to the man who communed with 
Jehovah.” Benediction by Lydia D. Alder. 
	MARGARET V. TAYLOR. Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.

	WILL the Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion
please send in their reports immediate-
ly to Margaret Y. Taylor. 33 South 1st
West St. Salt Lake City.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Garfield Beach

Time Card in Effect June 15th.
Leave		Arrive		Leave		Arrive
Salt Lake.	Garfield.		Garfield.		Salt Lake.
*7:45 a. m.	*8:45 a. m.	12:25 p. m.	1:05 p. m.
10:15 a. m.	10:55 a. m.	*3:10 p. m.	*4:00 p. m.
2:15 p. m.	2:55 p. m.	5:10 p. m.	5:45 p. m.
4:30 p. m.	5:10 p. m.	7:00 p. m.	7:40 p. m.
7:00 p. m.	7:40 p. m.	9:00 p. m.	9:40 p. m.
*Daily except Sundays.
	Olsen’s orchestra every afternoon and evening.
Boating, bathing and dancing. Fare 50c. Depot
corner First South and Fourth West. City ticket
office under Masonic hall, corner Second South and
West Temple streets.
				D. E. BURLEY, G. P. & T. A.

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[to the right of the logo]
The
People’s
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol- 
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City		7:00 a.m. 
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
 	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and 
	Denver						6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi- 
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
Denver and Park City				3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas 
	City and Denver				3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK,
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT, 
						Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
	H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


MRS. MARGARET O. WILSON OLIPHANT
author, born in 1828, who died June 26,
was buried in Eaton cemetery almost under
the shadow of Windsor Castle. Queen
Victoria sent a wreath of flowers and the
inscription “A mark of admiration and re-
spect from Victoria, R. I.” Shortly before
her death Mrs. Oliphant completed a
personal life of the Queen. Mrs. Oliphant
generally wrote at night after her family
and guests had retired, and she frequently
wrote until early in the morning.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. MCKINLEY has secured the ap-
pointment of Miss Hattie Gault, her tutor
at Brooks Hall Seminary thirty years ago,
as postmistress at Media, Ohio.
	MRS. JOSEPHINE R. NICOLS, who had
charge of the W. C. T. U. exhibit and
headquarters at the Paris Exposition, and
also at the World’s Fair, recently died at
her home in Indianapolis. She was a
strong woman and a great help to the
W. C. T. U. 				—Ex.
	THE University of Wisconsin has creat-
ed a new office, that of “Dean of women,”
and has appointed as Dean, Miss Annie
Crosby Emery of Ellsworth, Maine, A. B.
Bryn Mawr College 1892—holder of the
European Fellowship of the class, and Ph.
D. 1896
	JEAN INGELOW, the poet and novelist,
died in London July 19. She was born in
Boston, Lincolnshire, England, in 1820.
Ten years ago Miss Frances Willard pro-
posed and Dr. Chauncey M. Depew seconded
the motion, that Queen Victoria should ap-
point Miss Ingelow poet laureate, but the
suggestion was not accepted.
	MRS. M. J. WHITMAN, president of the
State Suffrage association, is making an ex-
cellent record as a member of the board of
regents of the State University. One of
her fellow regents is reported saying that
Mrs. Whitman is the most diligent and
efficient member of the board. This will
not surprise anybody except a few fossils
who cannot get it through their heads that
women have brains of just as fine texture
as men.
	BOISE CITY is entering upon a municipal
campaign. The indications are that it will
be a spirited contest. This is an excellent
opportunity for the women of the capital
city to set an example to their sisters
throughout the state. The women of Boise
can no doubt absolutely dictate the result
of the election. Will they do it and do it
right?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.


VOL. 26		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1897.		No 6.


CONTENTS:
	Our Jubilee—Ruth M. Fox. Death of Sister S.
A. Dwyer—L. D. Alder. Old Folk’s Day—E.
Crane Watson.  Testimony Of Healing—Emma
R. Keller. U. W. P. C.—Orielle Curtis.  Letter
From Mexico—S. T. B. Pioneers Of Utah—
Annie Laura Hyde. A Heart Of Gold—Clio.
Ladies Semi-Monthly, Mee ing—Zina H. Bull.
	EDITORIAL:—The Jubilce Number. A Pleasant
Party. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Jubilee Poem—Emily H. Woodman-
see. Utah’s Golden Day—L. L Greene Rich-
ards.


[Column 1]
JUBILEE POEM

THE UTAH PIONEER JOURNEY.
Now! let the Scroll of Time awhile unroll—
	That briefly we may scan on history’s page—
A pilgri age of Fifty years ago,
	Fraught with importance to this wondrous age.

Behold! a company of Refugees,
Inspired with courage and with faith sublime,
Wending their way toward a distant clime,
Crossing the prairies, vast as mighty seas.

Obeying thus, the mystic voice of Fate,
The overruling force of Destiny,
Fulfilling thus the marv’lous prophecies—
By ancient Seers and one* of later date.

Westward! these sturdy pilgrim’s feet are bent,
Trusting—that where “The Rocky Mountains
	rise,”
They yet will pitch their tents ’neath sheltering
	skies.
Upon “the backbone of the continent.”

And live in peace and truly realize—
Freedom of Conscience, to the r hearts content,
And build new homes—and Temples grand and
	great,

And there withal uprear a mighty State.
Most dang’rous is the pilgrims trackless way—
Beset by barbarous tribes, who nothing spare;
Woe! to the “pale face” who becomes their
	prey.
Woe! to the Trespasser, within their Lair.

Ferocious wolves, howl out their fierce desires,—
All through the night and spoil the exiles sleep,
And glare, with baleful eyes upon the fires
That faithful watchmen in their turn must keep.

At early dawn, the bugles startling call—
Stirs all the camp, to get an early meal,
The hymn of praise is sung, and one and all,
Entreat the Lord, to guard and guide them still.

Fresh as Creation’s morn the earth appears;
The plodding oxen quite good natur’d seem,
And light of heart, these hopeful pioneers
Move forward, trusting to the power Supreme.

Anon, perforce they halt, beside a river—
That must be crossed, however deep or wide
Minus a bridge, of any kind whatever
Yet, undismayed, they reach the other side,
And safely land their chattels and their teams,
And once more bid fare-well to waking dreams.

Thus weeks and months roll past until at last—
Their eyes behold the tow’ring Wasatch heights,
The outstretch’d chains of Everlasting hills
Out-ranked by few of Nature’s grandest sights.


[Column 2]
Now from the Western slope, the pilgrims gaze
Upon the Canaan of the Latter days.
So interwoven with their fondest dreams,
Alas! how undesirable it seems,
And still they look, and strive to voice in vain
The mixed emotions, that their hearts contain,
And men ally and naturally they ask—
Will all our efforts prove a hopeless task ?
Can arid, wastes—tired human frames sustain ?
Or must we still march on, and on, again ?
But Brigham Young, their Leader, by God’s
	grace,
Decisive y exclaims “This is the place!”

Weary and rough they look, and travel stain’d
What does it matter, now the goal is gain’d?
Yet Fashion’s votaries scarcely would admire—
These tourists in such worse for wear attire,
But nobler Heroes! God will never make—
Than these brave Mormons, who for conscience
	sake—
Sought out the valleys of the Great Salt Lake.

Like stately sentinels, so tall and grand—
The mountains looked on valleys, almost bare;
Scant vegetation languished in despair,
And desolation frown’d upon the land.

Mark how the hands of toil have changed the
	soil,
And turn’d the torrents from the snow-clad hills,
Into a mul itude of sparkling rills,
That from the desert wilds, removed the Ban,
And well rewards the patient husbandman.
Doubtless, the approbating smile of God—
Rests upon ev’rything, and ev’rywhere,
And vivifies and beautifies the sod,
In answer to the laborers toil and prayer.

“The solitary places shall be glad,”
“The wilderness shall blossom as the rose,”
Thus sang the ancient Seer: and thus the New,
And blessed are their eyes who gladly see,
On this auspicious day of Jubilee
The confirmation of the promise true.

SONG.
List! the jubilant echoes o’er mountain
	heights ringing
List! the beautiful valleys resounding with
	praise,
List! the streams and the fountains together are
	singing—
A chorus of joy, on this day of all days.

The sweet throated wa blers, are blending their
	voices,
As upward, and upward, unfettered they soar;
Oh come all ye people while Nature rejoices,
And render Him thanks,whom the Angels adore.

Shall the outcome of Faith be ascribed to man’s
	shrewdness,
Now the once dreary waste ike an Eden
	appears?
Shall we dare o deny ’twas God’s infinite good-
	ness,
That hitherward guided our brave pioneers?

CHORUS
Praise the Lord, Praise the Lord! and the Pion-
	eers too!
The Founders of Utah, undaunted and true!
Hail! Hail! to the Heroes whose debtors are
	we—
For this great Jubilee! Utah’s grand Jubilee!
			EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
*Joseph Smith.


OUR JUBILEE.

READ AT THE U. W. P. C. JULY 31, 1897.
	THE greatness of our Utah, and her abili- 
ty to display it surely cannot be doubted
after what has been witnessed by the hosts
of people who have invaded our borders 
during Jubilee week. Of the splendid
exercises, magnificent pageantry, gran-
deur and immensity I shall have little
to say, as this was well written up in the
all the daily papers and is now a thing of 
the past, and will take its place in history
as one of the great events of the Rocky
Mountain region. However, I feel that
in justice I must make mention of some of
the facts. The Counties made a fine show-
ing, exhibiting the products and industries
of the State. Colorado had a beautiful
float, the loftiest one in the procession, 
which was much appreciated. It was a
graceful way of manifesting her sisterly
feeling. The Silk worm Float was uniqne
and instructive. The Sego Lily and the-
Z. C. M. I. Fairy Float were simply en-
chanting. Then there was the Salt
Fountain, The Car of all Nations, The
Queen and her attendants, and more pri-
vate floats. In fact all were worthy of
special mention, and there must have been
scores of them; but to me there was some-
thing grander and deeper, that made a far
more lasting impression than all this
gorgeous splendor. First of all was the-
remnant of that noble band of Pioneers
representing in themselves patience, loyal-
ty, bravery and endurance, and proving
by the part they took in the celebration
that their indomitable will and energy was
by no means exhausted How proudly
they marched to the Pioneer Monument
and participated in the unveiling thereof !
What a change since despised and rejected
they had sought a home in the Great
American Desert! How their thoughts
flew back to the time they first beheld the
Western sun setting upon this then arid
waste. Their beloved leader and prophet
lying in his carriage worn with sickness
and fatigue. With no home but the broad
expanse before them, hemmed in by the
everlasting hills which seemed to be the
walls upon which the clear, blue sky above
them rested. And even in their most
sanguine dreams they could not have seen
this day, when surrounded by thousands
and ten of thousands of people of various
sects and creeds, showering upon them the
greatest honors men could bestow, they
would amid inspiring music, loud huzzas
and booming cannon, see a monument to
themselves surmounted by a statue of their
noble leader, standing at the head of the
principal thoroughfare of one of the most
beautiful cities in the union, presented to
the state; a reminder to future generations
of their own heroic deeds.
	True to life was the emigrant train,
flooding the memory with recollections of
burning sands, alkali plains, bad water,
fording rivers, or in lieu thereof riding
across on some stalwart’s back. Perhaps
we are climbing mountains, or descending
with heavy ropes attached to our wagons,


[Column 1]
pulling with all, our might to keep them
from tipping over. Again we hear the
crack of the whip on our little three by ten
tent, the signal for rising and preparing
breakfast, on a camp fire made of buffalo
chips gathered and carried for miles the
previous evening. Footsore and weary
we encamp at night to find that we must
walk a mile to get water for cooking pur-
poses. The cattle are giving out, we must
cache our treasured china. Provisions are
scarce. We must travel far into the night
ere we reach food or water for the famish-
ing cattle. The woeful tidings that a man
is shot while hunting falls upon our ears
or may be a little child is dead. Can some-
one find a winding sheet quickly as possi-
ble? Time is precious, we must hasten
on! These are but a few of the trials which
were borne with hopeful hearts, and prayer-
ful lips, singing songs of Zion, for were
they not nearing the promised land of
which prophets, and inspired men had been
singing all through the ages! Did not
Isaiah say that “The wilderness and the
solitary place shall be glad for them, and the
desert shall rejoice and blossom as the
rose.” The most pathetic sight however
in the great panorama was the handcart
company, the cheers and applause that had
been lavished by the multitude upon other
divisions, gave way to another kind of
emotion. The hearts of the people were
deeply stirred, strong men knowing noth-
ing of the hardships of crossing the plains
save in imagination, struggled to keep
back the tears.
	The greatest possible contrast to this was
the first railway train that arrived in Salt
Lake valley, telling of the hope and the
joy and expectation that came into the
hearts of the people as puffing and blowing
and screaming it entered the city. We
were no longer shut out from the world,
but henceforth would be a part of it.
Travel instead of being something to be
dreaded, would now be a pleasure. Friends
would be gathered and loved ones reunited.
Yea “They shall come with speed, swiftly."
	But the crowning glory of the celebra-
tion was the children. Was it not an in-
spiration to see them? Coming, coming,
and still they come, many of whom were
the offspring of the early settlers, a verit-
able army marching through the broad
streets of the ideal city that was laid out by
the pioneers. One could not imagine any-
thing but goodness and purity in, connec-
tion with those children, and indeed there
should be nothing else. Born of worthy
sires, unselfish mothers, who by their ex-
ample have taught them unwavering faith
in God, where the pure air and exhilarating
breezes, the lofty peaks and mountain
streams all sing to them of liberty, and
whisper of a better day for all mankind.
O, that they may prove worthy of their
inheritance, for on the children our glory
rests. May the structure so well begun
upom the faultless foundation, laid by the
parents, continue to grow and its lustre in-
crease until the rays thereof shall reach the
furthermost corners of the earth that all
nations seeing our good works may profit by
our example.
	The Utah Pioneer Jubilee was a grand
conception, most brilliantly executed, and
culminated most magnificently. The bene-
fits cannot be estimated by dollars and
cents, the effects will be more far-reaching
than we can realize at this time. Utah’s
fame was scattered far and wide, it was

[Column 2]
like sowing good seed that shall blossom
and bring forth good fruit after many
days.
					RUTH M. FOX


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
DEATH OF SISTER S. A. DWYER

O rest precious loved one under the trees;
	The earth with its care is far from thee now;
O bind a green chaplet with rich, rosy flowers,
	And rest it so lightly on they fair white brow.
And play with the sunbeams as they dance and
		glitter,
	Among the tall trees that border the stream;
O slumber and rest through the long golden
		Summer
	And dream a beautiful, happy dream.

	In the rich glowing Summer when the
earth is crowned with verdure and flowers,
when the birds are chirping to their young
in downy nests and the light wind sighs 
lazily along, we are called to part with a
life-long friend.
	When all nature is happy, the sky only
golden and blue, the tear of sympathy must
fall for the newly dead.
	On Wednesday, July 28, 1897, at her
home in the Seventeenth ward, Salt
Lake City, after an illness of some weeks
duration, surrounded by her husband and
entire family, two sons and six daughters,
the spirit of Sister S. A. Dwyer took its
flight into the Beyond. Sister Dwyer was
in her fifty-fourth year. She had been
patient through her suffering and had un-
bounded faith in her Heavenly Father. She
was happy and cheerful in her disposition,
and was loved most by those who knew 
her best. When the writer called to see
her a few days before her departure, she
expressed a longing to be “out under the
trees,” which so beautifully adorn her
home. They seemed to call her to rest
under their cooling shade; and so she long-
ed to sit under the trees, for there she
would be well.
	She peacefully and painlessly slept away
to another life and we who love her well
know that she is resting under the heaven-
ly trees, breathing in the elixir of life im-
mortal.
	Her funeral was held on Sunday July 29,
1897, Bishop Beatie presiding. A quartette
composed of Thomas Ashworth, Will
Patrick and others feelingly sang “I need
Thee every hour,” also “When the swal-
lows homeward fly” and “Earth has no
pain, heaven cannot heal.” Apostle John
Henry Smith, an old friend of Sister Dwy-
er’s, paid a loving tribute to her memory,
earnestly urged her sons and her daughters
to follow in her footsteps, to be faithful to
their God as she had been, to let her image
be ever present with them, that they
might be shielded from evil and sin. To
remember her words of counsel and live
their lives, so as to meet her with joy and
rejoicing when they one by one should be
gathered home.
	May the spirit of consolation rest upon
her aged mother, now in her eighty-fourth
year, and upon Brother James Dwyer, her
husband, also her children and grand-
daughter. May they truly live for the
better life, where there is no more parting,
tears or death.
	Loving hands placed many pure, rare
flowers on her white casket, which was
borne from her late home by her two sons,
two sons-in-law and two dear friends, her
daughters in spotless white following.

[Column 2]
There was no death, but the spirit of love
and peace. Tenderly she was laid to rest
on the hillside among the countless dead,
and the home which she loved will know
her no more.

There is rest for the feet grown weary with
		traveling,
	There’s a glorious home far away in the skies;
There’s a beautiful garden whose flowers are
		entrancing,
	They are found in the heavenly Paradise.

O there may we meet you out under the trees,
	When the air of the evening blows softly
		along,
O then may we greet you when the sun goes
		down,
	And join in your tender angel song.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
Sa t Lake City.


OLD FOLKS DAY.

	THROUGH the sickness of our secretary
the latest and greatest effort of our Relief
Society in Parowan has not been reported.
June 10 was celebrated here as “Old
folks day,” and as long as those heads
(adorned with the sixteen to one, or pure
silver) retain their memories that occa-
sion will be remembered as the golden day
of days
	Irrespective of creed, color or political
faith, all who had passed three score
or more mile stones, adown the journey on
this sphere, were entitled to a free seat,
with all the comforts and attention that a
bevy of good natured young people could
bestow, and at one o’clock the large, new
opera hall was filled with the honored
guests, seated around tastily decorated
tables laden so completely with the choicest
dishes that it was a perfect surprise, and
many queries were propounded as to where
so many good things came from; right
here our much loved President gave a feel-
ing poetical address of welcome, the bless-
ing was pronounced and the feast partaken
of in a way that all were assured that the
labors and generosity of the Relief Society
members were truly appreciated. After-
wards a unique program was rendered the
old folks being conspicuous for the spicy
speeches, songs and recitations they gave.
This was followed by the awarding of
prizes to fifteeh or twenty, Father and
Mother Hobbs who had lived together in
the married state, the greatest number of
years, the mother of the largest family, the
oldest Church member and others were
duly honored by receiving something use-
ful that would also be a pleasing memento
while life lasts.
	Several of our citizens contributed liber-
ally towards the purchase of the premiums
though the bishop’s donation far exceeded
them all, it was much regretted that he
was confined to his bed at the time, as he
had worked hard for the success of the
event.
	At our last general meeting many testi-
fied that the day was the happiest of their
lives and with tears thanked the originators
of the beautiful plan.
	Our Society is in excellent condition, we
are bound together by the cord of love,
there are many humble, earnest spirits in
our organization and your paper is enjoyed
with the many other privileges we have.
		E. CRANE WATSON, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
UTAH’S GOLDEN DAY.

WRITTEN FOR THE JUBILEE PRIZE COMPETITION. 
LOVED Utah! the eyes of the nations are on
		thee;
	In gladness, in glory arise, and appear;
Thy beautiful garments and jewels now don thee, 
	Salute with the name of thy brave Pioneer,
	Thy Jubilee Birthday, thy Fiftieth Year. 
Thy children come forward to honor and bless
		thee, 
Thy guests gather ’round thee, to hear and to
		see, 
What tales sha l be to’d by the friends who ad-
		dress thee, 
	What relics and gifts shall be brought unto 
		thee,
	To crown thy fair Statehood and show thou 
		art free. 
To listening thousands, thy story beginning,
	Recounts thy good lineage, birth undefiled; 
Thine infancy healthy, well-favored and winning—
	Then rich illustration portrays thee a child
	Full of vigorous spirits, courageous and wild. 
In Orient phrase, thou wast “salted and
		swaddled;”
	Developing early, precocious and strong; 
From pattern unique thou wast carefully
		modeled,
	As told in the voice of thy cradle-bed song; 
	And louder in strains which thy school-days
		prolong.
The Masters—thy Founders, were zealous in 
		holding 
	To courses and plans which were just, in their 
		sight;
Until in thy wealth and thy beauty unfolding, 
	The world is beginning to see they were right;
	To thy Nation’s great heart thou hast grown a
		delight.
Thy Temples unequa led; and man a dwelling
	With peace, love and innocence blissfully
		crowned; 
In flowers, fruits, grains and good works oft ex-
		celling; 
	Thy sweet singers rank with the world’s most 
		renowned; 
	With joy and thanksgiving thy soul may
		abound. 
Touch lightly, if need be, of sorrows and dangers, 
	Thy hardships and trials with shadows o’er-
		cast;
Today let thy children, thy friends and thy 
		strangers, 
	Rejoice in thy blessings, far reaching and vast; 
	Thy Golden Day dawning, the past be the past.
Yet tell of thy great ones, like Spa tan or Stoic, 
	How Brigham and Heber and Wil ard arose; 
Jedediah and Daniel and George A. heroic; 
	Hyde, Taylor and Woodruff, the Pratts and the
		Snows;
	And others, yet scarcely less valiant than those
Of the Pioneer men with their faithful com-
		panions, 
	Their wives and their little ones, dauntless and 
		bo'd, 
Who traced the wild plains, rugged mountains 
		and canyons, 
	No shelter to find, from the heat or the cold, 
	Too much, dearest Utah, can never be told. 
No luxur’ous couch, and no rest giving chariot, 
	Were shown as inducements that journey to
		take:
With Clara and Ellen and brave “Mother Har-
		riet,”
	It was for their religion and love’s holy sake; 
	And thousands have cheerfully followed their
		wake.

[Column 2]
The P oneer children, Lorenzo and Perry
	And others, if living, who came with the first, 
The little ones now, would be gratified, very, 
	To see those who shared both the best and the
		worst,
	In the days of gaunt poverty, hunger and 
		thirst.
Oft dark were the days, yet with pleasures enhanc-
		ing,
	The g oom was dispel ed, while with freedom
		and jest, 
The singing, theatrica s, music and dancing, 
	Were gaily indulged in, for ch nge and a rest 
	From the struggle for food; little thought how
		they dress'd. 
But all this aside, with the days that are olden; 
	Henceforth, happy Utah, thy troub es be few; 
Thy “good time” apporaches; thy Jubi ee golden
	Is charged with rich promises, sacred and new,
	For thy chas e, lovely daughters, sons oya and
		true. 
Young Utah stand forth, give thy rights firm ex-
		pounders
	Thy dutiful homage, bright smiles and glad
		tears; 
All honor and praise to the God of thy Founders; 
	Thy mountains Oh Utah! resound with the
		cheers
	Sent heavenward, greeting thy brave Pioneers! 
				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
TESTIMONY OF HEALING. 
	The Latter-day Saints know that the
gifts of the Gospel are restored again on
the earth and among them the gift of heal-
ing the sick has been very prominent.
And those who are acquainted with the
work in the Holy Temple, (where many
afflicted Saints come with hope and faith to
be restored again to health) know the 
power made manifest.
	We the laborers in these holy places can
testify as eye witnesses that many have
received great benefits, and many have
been healed of their ailments by the ad-
ministrations of those that were appointed
and set apart to work in these holy places.
Among those who have been favored is a
young lady by the name of Mary Ann
Douglass, whom we wish to mention. Her
 foster-mother, Mrs. Olroyd of Fountain
green, Sanpete Co., was sick nearly all
winter and the young lady was her nurse
and constant attendant, being in good
health. On the 1st of April Mrs. Olroyd
died having hold of Mary Ann’s arm at the
time of her departure taking her along, as 
she believes, to the spirit world. These
are the words of Mary Ann to the writer:
	“When mother died she held my arm and
took me along with her, it seemed not far
to go, till we were walking in a nice grassy
place, ladies dressed in white meeting us,
shaking hands and greeting mother, but
they seemed not to notice or care for me
except my sister-in-law who had died about
two years previously; she was the only
one who recognized and greeted me. And
thus we walked around and saw many
people who knew mother, they all seemed
to be very happy. At length mother let
go of my arm when I again became con-
scious and found a few of the sisters who
were in the house, rubbing my body. I
was gone or absent about two hours and
fifty minutes.
	“When I got up and tried to walk I
was unable to do so, like one that is para-
lyzed, especially my back had lost all its
natural strength.”

[Column 2]
	On the 5th of May that sister was
brought to the Manti Temple where she
was blessed and administered to and also
received her endowments, during which
time she was carried through the house in 
a chair. She was prayed for in the Tem-
ple for two weeks. As the young woman
saw no change in her condition until the
15th inst. some of her friends consulted a
doctor who saw her that day and promised
to come in two days and see what he could
do  But the Lord restored her, for the
next day on the 16th, she felt to get up,
and to her great surprise she could walk,
and walked that day to one of her friends,
a distance of four blocks at Ephraim City,
and the distance back making eight blocks.
though she could not walk one step the
day before. On the 20th of May she came
to the Temple again to show us all what
our Heavenly Father had done for her.
	Dear reader imagine, if you can, the sur-
prise and joy in our hearts to see Sister
Mary Ann, the helpless babe of two weeks
ago, walk in without assistance as though
nothing had been the matter. A feeling of
joy and gratitude to our merciful Father in
heaven swelled in our hearts and another
testimony was added to the many given
before, that God is not unmindful of His
children, that His priesthood is restored
again to the earth with all its powers and
privileges there unto belonging, for the 
benefit and blessing of the faithful.
			EMMA R. KELLER.
Manti, July 30, 1897

U. W. P. C.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the U.
W. P. C. was held Saturday evening, July
31, at the office of the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT. President Fox called the meeting to
order at 8 o’clock. After prayer by Mrs.
Lucy A. Clark the secretary called the
roll, members responding with sentiments
from various Utah poets. As there were
but few members present the evening’s
program was in order before business. The
chair appointed Dr. Curtis critic for the
evening.
	The subject for the evening was the
Utah Jubilee. The first paper was pre-
sented by Miss Annie Laura Hyde on “The
Pioneers;” this was followed by a paper
on “The Jubilee,” by Mrs. Ruth M. Fox.
This completed the program.
	Under the head of business a motion was
made and carried that the program be pre-
pared by the committee and read before the
club one month befere hand.
	In accordance with a letter to the club
from Mrs. Bradley, asking that the U. W.
P. C. appoint a special correspondent to
the Review, the secretary was appointed by
the club to fill that position. After bene-
diction by Mrs. P. C. Young the meeting
was adjourned for one month.
		ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec’y.


IN Chicago the Civil Service Commis-
sion on July 29, posted a list of 221 per-
sons eligible for ward and street inspectors,
as a result of the recent examination.
Commissioner Winston pointed out with
pride that the candidate who got the best
mark, and was almost perfect in her ex-
amination, was a woman. This was Mrs.
A. Emmogene Paul, who was for three
years sanitary inspector of the Civic Feder-
ation.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY AUGUST 15, 1897


THE JUBILEE NUMBER.

	OUR readers will notice that we have
made this number a sort of Jubilee paper,
and we think the articles by Miss Annie
Laura Hyde and by Mrs. Ruth M. Fox are
particularly appropriate and give many im-
portant facts relative to our people and to
Utah. The two poems we publish were
both written for the prize competition, and
we were very glad to be able to give them
to the public; the last issue of the Expo-
nent contained the very artistic poem “The
Lily and the Bee,” by Bishop O. F. Whit-
ney, which even the judges commended
when they made their decision as to the
prize poem.
	The poem on our first page entitled
"The Pioneer Journey,” is written from
the heart, the author has felt deeply all she
has expressed and more, and in fact all her
poems are heartfelt, and Sister Woodman-
see has written for many years on Mormon
subjects always, almost exclusively.
	The poem on the third page is by L. L.
Greene Richards, the first editor of this
paper, her writings too, are significantly
Mormon, and she is one of the most charm-
ing verse writers as well as letter writers
and story tellers for children that we have
among our people. Each of these two sis-
ters have told the story of the pioneers in
her own way, and given her own ideas of
the pioneers and their hardships and ulti-
mate success. And though nearly a hun-
dred poems were written for the semi-
centennial the half has not been told nor
can it ever be were a hundred more written.
	There is grand material for the future
historians and biographers of Utah in the
exodus from Nauvoo, the sojourn at Winter
Quarters, and the journey over the plains
with ox teams and other primitive con-
ditions the settling of a desert, the build-
ing of a city, and cities, and eventually of
a great state.
	The people who have written see things
from their point of view, and write accord-
ingly. In this fast age of the world no one
has time to spare to write an elaborate
epic poem. Every one who has ability in
this direction puts it to the best financial use
possible. The journals and magazines of
the day are mostly depended upon to tell
one of important events, and that brings a
thought that might be expressed without
giving offence perhaps; why the Semi-
Centennial was not written up and illustrat-
ed in some of the famous magazines of the
day in a way calculated to attract public


attention, and make it of some historic im-
portance as a matter of record in the coun-
try of which Utah is a part
	The newspapers in this state did full
justice to the Jubilee and the Commission
and to the living Pioneers themselves the
“whole six hundred,” and nine-five more
who came here in 1847—and the illustrious
dead. That is they kept up daily with the
occurrences as they were transpiring, but 
comparatively few people outside of Utah 
read these great dailies—but they do read
the North American Review, the Forum,
Review of Reviews and standard magazines.


A PLEASANT PARTY.

	ON Saturday afternoon July 3rd, 1897, a
party was given at the residence of Mrs. A.
E. Hyde in this city in honor of her mother
Mrs. Jane B. Taylor (wife of President
John Taylor deceased) who is a veteran in
the Church and also now far advanced in
years. Sister Taylor is a very interesting
and lovable woman in herself, she is also a
pioneer having come to the valley in 1847.
	The party was in every way a success,
about thirty of her dear friends were pre-
sent and a sumptuous repast prepared and
daintily served by her grand daughters was
one of the features of the occasion. There
were plenty of floral decorations to adorn
the feast which always adds both beauty 
and grace to a party.
	The general conversation was reminis- 
cent and later on in the evening an im- 
promptu meeting was made a very
pleasant way of giving expression to the
love and esteem in which they held the
honored sister.
	Such social parties give rare opportunities
for those who have been familiarly ac-
quainted in former times to mingle together
and recount their experiences and sympa-
thize with each other.
	Sister Taylor was a Scotch Ballantyne
and is doubtless proud of it, (in a way) and
was born on her father’s farm. Shieldfield,
Merton Parish near Kelsor and about forty
miles from Edinburgh, on the 11th of
April, 1813. The Ballantynes received the
Gospel in an early day and came to Nauvoo
where Sister Taylor was married to Apos-
tle John Taylor. She is still in possession
of remarkably good health and with all her
faculties unimpaired. We rejoice with her
“that her lines are cast in pleasant places.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE hope and expect the Kindergarten
work will assume large proportions this
year, it is growing in favor and the people
are being educated up to the idea that the
Kindergarten theory and practice as taught
lies at the very foundation of the training
of children for life work.
	THE bathing season seems to have been
liberally patronized during the hot weather
this summer and all the old favorite resorts,
Wasatch and Brighton particularly, with
Saltair and Garfield and the Lagoon.
There are so many cool resorts
and such picturesque scenery that one
need not go far to find a place to rest and
recuperate, if one has the time. Of course
during the Jubilee everybody came to the
city but began to scatter after, and even the
children need a breath of country air before
the vacation is over. Schools will soon


open now and with the record of last year
we may expect great improvement to be
made. 
	MISS LOUISE B. EMERY, of St. Paul, 
who came here very highly recommended 
in her line, Kitchen Kindergartening, has 
been giving lessons to children and teach-
ers in this city during the last four weeks. 
She has illustrated them and at times open-
ed her classes and lectures to visitors. Cer-
tainly this branch of Kindergarten work is 
one of the most helpful things to young
mothers, whose nerves and brain are over-
taxed with the endless questions and con-
stant restlessness of little ones. The ques-
tion so often asked  “What shall we do 
with our girls?” might well be applied to 
young mothers only  it should be put
“What shall we do for them? Every 
young mother in the land ought if possbile
to have the benefit of the Kindergarten. 
	THE annual meeting of the Cannon 
ward Relief Society was held on the 5th of
August in the Cannon schoolhouse, Mrs. 
Sarah J. Cannon presiding. Although 
there was a pouring rain accompanied by
thunder and lightning, yet the sisters of
the ward, (some of them coming long dis-
tances) turned out well. After the usual 
exercises of singing and prayer, minutes of 
the organization and of the previous meet-
ing  were read nnd approved, also the
Treasurer’s report for the year, all of which 
were accepted. Sisters Zina D. H. Young,
M. Isabella Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith, 
Emmeline B. Wells, Annie T. Hyde and 
Clara C. Cannon each made remarks in-
structing and interesting, also Sister Cannon
the president. Other sisters present who 
would have spoken had there been time
were Sisters Caroline D. Smoot, Catharine 
Lewis, Ruth Ensign and Zina H. Bull. 
After the meeting was dismissed, delicious
refreshments were served to all members 
and guests and social conversation enjoyed.


LETTER FROM MEXICO.

COLONIA, JUAREZ.
	ON the 22nd of June, it being the anni-
versary of the birthday of Bishop Hunter,
a reception was given by Brother Orson
Brown and his wife Mattie, in honor of
their mother, Sister Phoebe Fife, and the
rest of the aged sisters living in the place.
Among those present were Sister Mary
Eyring, President of the Relief Society of
Juarez Stake, and Sister Cynthia Stowell,
her counselor. The party convened at
one o'clock and spent the time until three
o'clock in pleasant chat on past reminis-
cences, then all retired to a large dining
room and partook of a sumptuous repast,
after which all returned to the pleasant
parlor where the organ sounded with
lively notes by Miss Jennie Galbraith.
	Meeting was called to order by President
Phoebe Fife. The old folks sang "O My
Father." Prayer was offered by Brother
Brown. Singing "We thank Thee O, God
for a prophet." A poem was then read by
Miss Jennie Galbraith which was written
for the occasion by Sister S. T. Brimhall,
which awakened in the minds of those
present many fond remembrances of the
past.
	The eldest lady in the house, Sister Peter-
son, then sang in her native tongue, Dan-
ish, her voice was sweet though trembling


with age. Sister Shonsou spoke of her ex-
perience and of the goodness of God. Sis-
ter Annie Bowman sang a hymn in Ger-
man. Sister Harriet Whipple, aged 73 sang
in English. 
	President Mary B. Eyring recited a 
poem in German and gave the translation 
in English. Sisters Stoell, Hawkins, 
Thompson, Holt and others spoke of their
experiences and their joy in the Latter-day
work. Sister Hawkins led in prayer, then 
all arose and administered to Sister Fife
who had long been afflicted with rheuma-
tism. Sister Susan Martineau spoke of her
experience and stated that she saw the 
burning of the Nauvoo Temple. 
	President Phoebe Fife told of many of
her experiences. She was baptized by 
W. R. Huntington and led out of the 
water by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and 
had often gone to the Relief Society meet-
ings in Nauvoo with her mother, and heard
the Prophet’s teachings to the sisters. Sis-
ter Fife is the president of our Relief Soci-
ety in Juarez and is greatly beloved by all 
the Saints here. Her counsels are full 
of wisdom, she is a friend to the poor and
those who are in need of encouragement.
She was a pioneer in Utah and she has 
been a pioneer in Mexico; her whole life
has been devoted to the interests of the 
work of God. She is cared for in her old 
age by her son Brother Brown, who spares
neither pains nor means to make her happy
and comfortable. 
	At the close of the meeting the old folks 
sang “The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing.” Benediction was offered. 
						S. T. B.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PIONEERS OF UTAH.

READ BEFORE THE U. W. P. C JULY, 1897.
	IN giving even a short sketch of the
Pioneers of Utah it will be necessary to first
know what kind of people they were,
where they came from, what were their
characteristics, and the cause and motives
which led them to leave what was then
the frontiers of a great nation, the bounda-
ries of civilization to seek to find homes, peace
and prosperity in an alien country, barren,
forbidding in aspect, inhabited by some of
the lowest of the uncivilized tribes of
America; to be anxious and enthusiastic to
start upon their journey into a region they
knew not of, leaving their beautiful homes
and smiling farms behind them.
	The historian Bancroft says “There is
no parallel in the world’s history to this
emigration from Nauvoo. The exodus
from Egypt was from a heathen land, a
land of idolaters, to a fertile region designat-
ed by the Lord for his chooen people, the land
of Canaan. The pilgrim fathers in fleeing
to America came from a bigoted and des-
potic people, a people making few preten-
sions to civil and religious liberty. It was
from these same people who had fled from
the old world persecutions that they might
enjoy liberty of conscience in the wilds of
America, from their descendants and asso-
ciates that other of their descendants who
claimed the right to differ from them in
opinions and practice were now fleeing.
	Before this the Mormons had been driven
to the outskirts of civilization where they
had built themselves a city; this they
must now abandon and throw themselves
upon the mercy of savages.
	After the Latter-day Saints, or

[Column 2]
as they are nick-named, “Mormons” were
driven from Missouri they fled to Illinois
and built the beautiful city of Nauvoo, sur-
rounded by farms and smaller settlements.
But the persecutions from which they fled
in Missouri were heaped upon them here
and after having their two leading men killed
and others wounded by an infuriated mob,
while they were under the protection of the
Governor; their houses burned and fields
destroyed and every indignity heaped upon
them, they at length made an agreement
with the representatives of the people of
Illinois to leave the state in the spring.
The agreement was reached on the first
of October and during the intervening
months between October and March the
Saints were busy making arrangements for
their enforced departure. Their prophet
and partriarch were dead, but they were
directed by the council of the Twelve,
Brigham Young being president of that
council.
	To know what kind of people they were,
whether industrious or indolent, one need
but look at the country they have made,
our beautiful state of Utah.
	Everywhere in and around Nauvoo was
bustle and excitement to prepare for the
early spring exodus. The people en-
deavored to dispose of their property,
in some instances this was accomplished, in
others they were enabled to lease, but in
the majority of cases they had to abandon
their homes and farms which had cost them
so much toil and labor, and which they lov-
ed so well.
	As early as February 4th eighteen hun-
dred and forty-six, the first party, left the
city and encamped about nine miles west-
ward on the Sugar creek. They had been
ferried across the Mississippi until that
river was frozen over when they crossed
with their wagons, teams and effects upon
the ice. The night of the 5th of February
in the bitter cold, and in the tents which
had been hastily pitched, the snow being
swept away from below them, nine wives
became mothers. By the middle of Febru-
ary when Brigham Young joined them a
thousand souls with their wagons, teams
and effects had crossed to the Iowa shore.
Here a council was held, the company
somewhat organized and Brigham Young
and some of the leading men who accom-
panied him returned to Nauvoo, held ser-
vices in the almost completed Temple and
then again joined the company on the
Sugar creek, which on Sunday March 1,
the first day of spring, began their west-
ward march, traveling five miles that day
and encamping still on the Sugar creek.
	It was not customary for the Latter-day
Saints to travel on Sunday as they honored
the Sabbath day and tried to keep it holy,
but as Brigham Young had given his word
that they would leave the first day of the
spring, and as the camp was so close to
Nauvoo many of the people were going
back and forth which made their enemies
suspicuous of their sincerity, it was deemed
expedient to start on the Sabbath. William
Clayton was made clerk of the company,
and Willard Richards an easy and versatile
writer, historian. The company traveled
slowly over the undulating snow and
ice covered plains of Iowa, some-
times making but three to seven miles a
day, until on the 27th of March they
reached Shoal creek and were forced to en-
camp there for three weeks on account of
the spring freshets. There a more com-

[Column 3]
plete organization was effected, the com-
pany was divided into tens, fifties and hun-
dreds over each of which was placed a captain
and the whole was divided into two divi-
sions, Heber C. Kimball, president of one,
and Brigham Young of the other, the latter
being also director of all. Laws were
made then for the governing of the camp
laws that were very strict in regard to
morality, honesty and general good con-
duct.
	As they traveled along settlements were
made, and traveling stakes of Zion organ-
ized. In these settlements small houses of
logs, turf and mud were made, land was
fenced in and crops were sown for the bene-
fit of the people who might stay in the set-
tlements, and for the good of those who
followed after them. One settlement on
the Grand river one hundred and fifty-five
miles from Nauvoo was called Garden
Grove, and another twenty-seven miles be-
yond, Mount Pisgah.
	There were now about one thousand
wagons with their precious freight of hu-
man lives rolling over the plains. About
the middle of June they reached the Mis-
souri river, and by the generosity and
friendliness of the Omaha and Pottawat-
omie Indians were allowed to settle on
their lands.
	It was here that the call for the Mormon
Battalion reached them. The United
States was waging war against Mexico try-
ing to wrest from her, her provinces of
California and New Mexico; and to march
across the continent and assist them in this
was to be the mission of the Battalion. Th
people were filled with dismay. Five hun-
dred able-bodied men from their little com
pany out in the midst of the wilds of
America! What had their country done
for them? They had been driven from
their homes, persecuted, robbed and slain;
when they had applied for justice it had
been refused them; did they owe any alle-
giance to her? And yet they loved their
country, it was their country that was
calling; that country to which their pil-
grim ancestors had fled from the persecu-
tions of the old world, that land wherein they
yet hoped to build their city of Zion, their
Holy City. These contradicting emotions
passed through them. What was to be
done? The question was soon answered
for them. Their leaders decided that the
call should be answered, the men should be
furnished. Not enough able-bodied men
were on the banks of the Missouri to re-
spond to the call so Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards,
in the role of recruiting sergeants went
back to Mount Pisgah to enlist men there.
In three days the muster was complete, the
company organized and ready to march.
Instructions were given them, a flag
brought out and nailed to the top of a tree
mast, a farewell party given in Father
Taylor’s bowery, (father of President John
Taylor) and the Mormon Battalion bid
their families and friends a long, in some
cases an eternal farewell. A few women
accompanied their husbands and these with
the servants brought the number up to
five hundred and fifty-nine. Sending so
many of their able-bodied men off made it
impossible for the company to go any fur-
ther that year; even before the call of the
Battalion many women had been forced to
do work which should have been done by
men, and now they were too enfeebled to
undertake the long and hazardous journey,


[Column 1]
accordingly it was decided to go into winter
quarters. Many of the Saints had crossed
the river from Council Bluffs and accord-
ing to instructions they laid out a city
which they called Winter Quarters.
	This city was composed of seven hun-
dred houses, workshops, places of worship
etc,, with a population of four thousand
and divided into twenty-two wards, each
presided over by a bishop and his counsel-
lors. A High Council was also organized.
The city was what is now Florence, Neb.,
five miles from Omaha.
	It was in this city in crude houses of
logs, turf and other primitive materials that
the Saints passed the severe winter of 1846
and '47.
	While camped here it was found neces-
sary on account of trouble in the branch of
the Church in England, for Apostles John
Taylor, Orson Hyde and P. P. Pratt to go
to England to arrange the affairs.
	As spring approached it was deemed
advisable not to take the whole Church
along but for a small company to be select-
ed to push forward, pioneer the way, find
the place where they should build their
city and then the other companies should
follow in their wake. Accordingly one
hundred and forty-four men were selected,
one of whom became ill and could not go,
and a their earnest solicitations three wo-
men, Clara D. Young, wife of Brigham
Young, Harriet P. W. Young, wife of
Lorenzo Young and Ellen S. Kimball, wife
of Heber C. Kimball, and two children
accompanied the party.
	On April 5, 1847, Heber C. Kimball
with six wagons left Winter Quarters and
found a camp four miles west called Cut-
ler's camp, and this camp was the nucleus
of the Pioneer company. On the eighth
some of the leading men returned to meet
Parley P. Pratt and hear the report of his
mission, on the ninth another start was
made but the same men again returned to
meet John Taylor who had returned from
England bringing with him two thousand
dollars in gold subscribed by the British
Saints. Apostles Taylor, Pratt and Hyde
remained behind to organize new compan-
ies and the former soon left, reaching the
basin of the Great Salt Lake the latter part
of September and the beginning of October,
while Orson Hyde remained behind to or-
ganize companies, attend to the emigration
and edit the "Frontier Guardian," the
first newspaper published in Iowa. On
the 15th of April the Pioneer company
finally started with seventy-two wagons,
ninety-two horses, fifty-two mules, sixty-
six oxen, nineteen cows, seventeen dogs
and some chickens. They were instructed
to proceed two wagons abreast as much as
possible, and when liable to be attacked
more; the bugle would sound at five
o'clock for every one to arise, then they
had prayers, fed their teams, breakfasted
and were ready to start at seven o'clock.
At 8:30 p. m. everyone had prayers in
his own wagon and by 9 o'clock all
must be in bed Each company of ten
took their turn in riding in the van
of the train, and when they camped at
night a corral was formed by placing the
wagons in a circle, the fore wheel of each
vehicle being locked in a hind wheel of
the one ahead. One and sometimes two
openings were left in this corral and the
horses and cattle were usually driven into
the inclosure, especially when in a hostile
country. Over this small, mimic, sleep-
ing city the sentries mounted guard. On

[Column 2]
the Sabbath day there was no traveling,
divine services were held and the day was
kept holy. The people were encouraged
to be happy and cheerful and enjoy them-
selves, but excessive levity and loud
laughter was discountenanced.
	The company traveled up the barren
north side of the Platte making their own
road, fearing to travel on the south side
where the emigrants to Oregon and Cali-
fornia were traveling on account of the
depredations of their old enemies the Mis-
sourians. They frequently were com-
pelled to pay tributes of food and provisions
to the Indians, but were usually treated
well by them. In crossing rivers they
used a small leather boat called the Revenue
Cutter which they had brought with them
as a wagon bed from Winter Quarters.
At Loup Fork they ferried some of the
Oregon emigrants across and were given by
them flour and other provisions; these
emigrants were Missourians and it seemed
strange that they should thus help to feed
them when they were in the wilderness.
	They hunted and fished as they went
along, and thus added to their provender.
On May 21, a guide board was put up,
reading: "From Winter Quarters 409
miles; from the junction of the north and
south forks (of the Platte) 9 ¾ miles. Ac-
cording to Fremont this plaee is 132 miles
from Laramie." Various other such guide
boards were made, often a buffalo's skull
being used for that purpose, and these
skulls also served for post offices in which
were hidden letters for the companies
traveling in the rear. On June 1, they
were opposite Fort Laramie and five hun-
dred and forty-three miles from Winter
Quarters, half their journey completed in
seven weeks. There they were joined by
more of the Mississippi Saints and the in-
valid portion of the Mormon Battalion,
seventeen in all, and A. M Lyman was
sent back to Pueblo to take charge of the
Mississippi Saints. On the 4th of June
they left Laramie and met many emigrants
bound for Oregon, and in the region of the
Black Hills on the Platte, ferried them
across the river, as on account of high
water it was not fordab[-]e. Finding that
the smimming of the wagons injured
them they made a raft and ferried their
own wagons and loads as well as the emi-
grants across, charging the latter $1.50 for
a wagon and loads. The money and pro-
visions obtained at this time were equally
divided among the company, the ferrymen
receiving a little more for their work. As
this plan was considered a good one to
establish a ferry nine men were detailed to
man it, and hereby to be able to pioneer
the next company.
	The pioneers met several scouts and
mountaineers of whom they inquired about
the land ahead of them, but all reports
were very discouraging; the land was bar-
ren and no vegetation, little water, a great
salt sea and inhabited by some of the poor-
est and lowest of the savage tribes. They
were advised to go into the northern part
of the great basin valley to a place where
the hunters and trappers cached their furs
as it was the most fertile part, they called
it Cache valley, which name it still bears,
or into the southern part, but around the
great Salt Lake nothing would grow. Col.
Bridger offered one thousand dollars for
the first ear of corn ripened in the place
where the Saints settled. But still un-
daunted they pressed on turning their
faces into the heart of the Rocky Moun-

[Column 3]
tains, and away from the El Dorado of
California.
	On July 7, they reached Fort Bridger
but left it on the 9th and on the 12th of
the month President Young was taken ill
with mountain fever and was compelled to
fall to the rear and cease traveling for
awhile. On the 13th Orson Pratt with
forty-two men and the women and children
of the Crow family, pressed forward to try
and find the Denver trail and make a road
for those in the rear. They went down
Echo Cañon into East Cañon and thirteen
times crossed that rapid stream, often the
wheels of the wagons had to be double-
locked as they descended the steep and
rocky cañons; from East cañon up over
Big mountain, here Orson Pratt and John
Brown riding ahead of the company on
July 19, caught the first glimpse of the
Valley of the Great Salt Lake. Their
journey then led them over Little moun-
tain, and down Emigration cañon.
	On July 21, Erastus Snow joined the
van guard bringing a message from Presi-
dent Young who thought that on emerging
into the valley if they journeyed a little
northward they would find the best place.
On the same afternoon Erastus Snow and
Orson Pratt riding one horse rode into the
valley. On the afternoon of the 23rd
President Young saw the valley for the
first time, and a ter looking at it long and
steadfastly he said, "Enough, this is the
right place. Drive on."
	That night the President and the rear
guard camped at what is now Mountain
Dell, and on the afternoon of the following
day, the memorable 24th of July, the rear
guard drove into the valley to the place
which those in the van had selected, and
where they had sown their grain. And
their journey was over.
ANNIE LAURA HYDE.


182 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A HEART OF GOLD.

BY CLIO.
	IT was dinner time before the company
reached their destination, the banks of
the beautiful Silver Lake, set like a gem in
the tops of the verdure-clad, rock-ribbed
mountains The afternoon was occupied
in preparing for the celebration on the mor-
row. John Heplar worked with a will
gathering willows and boughs to help
make the three large boweries necessary for
the accommodation of the vast assembly;
also in bringing from the saw mill near by,
planks to form floors for the same. All
was at last prepared. The day god was
just sinking to rest in his couch of crimson
and amber when the shrill but sweet tones
of a bugle floated through the tremulous
air, followed by answering echoes as the
sound reverberated from crag to crag,
and peak to peak. It was a signal for the
people to gather around a small turf-clad
eminence, to listen to words of inspiration
by their leaders. It was a solemn and in-
spiring moment. In the dim twilight, sur-
rounded by the grandest and most beauti-
ful in nature, twenty-six hundred people
listened with devout looks and deepest
feeling, to the prayer offered by their be-
loved Brother Heber, as he plead for Zion
and dedicated the spot for the grand cele-
bration of religious liberty for her people.
And when later there stood before them
their prophet and leader, speaking boldly
for justice, thankfully for blessings received,


[Column 1]
prophetically of the great future, every
heart burned with gratitude and every lip
echoed and re-echoed a solemn amen to
his words of truth.
	A social dance was the program for the
evening. Hitherto John had been most
happy, for he had been very busy with lit-
tle time to brood over his troubles. Now
he felt like running away, wandering into
the surrounding solitude where he could be
alone with his thoughts. He had never
yet spoken to Grace, and what was a party
to him without her sweet companionship.
Not for worlds would he again experience
the misery of that last party. Then he re-
membered his experience on the banks
of the Jordan, and his feelings changed in
a moment from the deepest depression to
sweet anticipation. He quickly formulated
plans of procedure. He would remain and
take part in all exercises. He would treat
Grace in all respects as thougk nothing dis-
agreeable had transpired, with the excep-
tion that he would strictly suppress any-
thing of a lover-like nature. In accordance
with his resolutions he waited until Grace
had danced several times, then approached
her in the frankest and most natural man-
ner he could assume, (for it must be con-
fessed he found it necessary to assume in-
difference toward one whom he had come
to look upon almost as his exclusive
property,) and requested the pleasure of
a dance. To say that Grace was surprised
at this manɶuvre would but mildly express
her feelings. Yet that she was pleased
could be judged from the expression of her
face. Never before had John appeared to
as good advantage. Never had he assumed
in her presence so much of the outward
appearance of politeness. He had been
one of those who seem to pride themselves
on their bluntness, and uncouth behavior.
He had never been her ideal, far from it.
Yet in spite of his many faults, and to the
wonder of her friends and even herself, at
times, her heart had clung to him, hoping
against hope for his reformation. In spite
of her love, however, Miss Alison had a
large fund of common sense, and a still
larger reserve of religious sentiment. Per-
haps it was due to these that she could see
dimly through John Heplar’s rough exte-
rior to the genuine kernel within. How-
ever that might be, it was quite certain
that she would never throw herself away
upon a worthless character, if she knew of
his failings.
	The dance was quite uneventful, but
enjoyable. Grace was pleasant but not
talkative, and John was more than once at
his wits end to keep off an annoying and
awkward silence. He managed pretty
well, however, and later on, danced with
her again with a grain more satisfaction.
	Early next morning the camp was astir
with life and pleasurable anticipation.
The stars and stripes were run up on four
of the highest points in the vicinity, cannon
boomed, bands played, the people sang
praises and patriotic songs. There was
fervent prayer and heartfelt thanksgiving;
more singing; some speech making and
toasting; some military evolutions, the
whole finally culminating in a grand pic-
nic dinner. What a glorious time and
what a happy, grateful, patriotic people!
	The enjoyment was at its height; boat-
ing, strolling, singing and a dozen other
pastimes being in full blast, when atten-
tion was called to the approach of four
horsemen up the narrow, winding road

[Column 2]
leading from the city. Their weary,
travel-stained, but rather excited appear-
ance roused many conjectures as to who
they were, whence they came and what
might be their errand. The suspense was
not of long duration. Too soon was learn-
ed the startling intelligence that they were
well known and devoted brethren, who
had ridden hundreds of miles on horse-
back to bear tidings to their isolated peo-
ple in the fastnesses of the mountains.
And such tidings! The news flows from
lip to lip with great rapidity.—An army
is on its way to Utah to put down an in-
surrection among the Mormons! A host
of men en route over the prairies and
deserts to annihilate the handful of perse-
cuted saints who have taken refuge in the
tops of the mountains, a thousand miles
from civilization!
	There is no noise, no excitement; but
deep in every heart is a firm and settled
conviction of right and justice, and a firm
determination that this project must not be
allowed to culminate. The declaration of
their leader that the army shall not enter
the valley, finds an echo in every heart.
	The merriment goes on, though perhaps
it is rather more subdued. There are
speeches by prominent men, singing and
benediction, more dancing and a good
night’s rest preparatory to return on the
morrow.
	It is doubtful if the news of the advanc-
ing host affected any one more profoundly
than our friend John. He felt stunned.
The idea that after the robbings, murder-
ings, burnings and pillagings, and ravag-
ings which the people had undergone and
of which he had just been reading, of
the parent government which should have
been their protector, should without pre-
text, seek to annihilate their last remnants,
without cause or provocation, was more
than he could understand or bear patiently.
He felt as though he could fight the whole
army single handed, so great was his indig-
nation. So, when a few days later, a call
was made for volunteers to meet the enemy
on their way, he was among the first to
offer his services.
	“Why Brother John,” exclaimed his
Bishop, when young Heplar presented him-
self, “Is it possible you are willing to
fight the battles of a people whom you do
not like, and whom you have esteemed as
the wrong doers?”
	“Such is the case, Bishop Langly,” re-
plied John. “There are such things in
the world, you know, as a change of
mind.”
	“Good for you,” chimed in the Bishop’s
first counselor. “I always said that some
of our rough boys were jewels in disguise,
and held hearts of gold under their crusty
coats.”
	“Thank you, Brother Harper, I hope
you may prove a true prophet.”
	According to counsel, it became neces-
sary for our friend John to be re-baptized
before they set out on their perilous jour-
ney. It is not likely that he would have
thought of it, or done it if he had
thought, but inasmuch as many others
were to undergo the same ordinance, he
was on the whole, rather pleased than
otherwise.
	It is not necessary to go into the details
of the winter campaign in Echo Cañon; of
the hardships endured, and the lessons of
obedience and self-sacrifice learned by those
taking part. It is all a matter of history,

[Column 3]
and as such may be studied with profit by
those of a later day.
	The campaign came to an end as all
things do, and there arrived a day when
those brave men came marching home
again, crowned with the laurels of a blood-
less victory. It had been a time of trial to
the fiery spirit of our hero, and of other
impulsive individuals. But like ore from
the furnace he came forth purified, refined
and prepared for the summons which shortly
followed; that of a call to bear glad tidings
of great joy to a world which sat in dark-
ness.
	During the short period which passed be-
tween his return from military duty and his
departure for ecclesiastical labors, John
saw much of Grace Alison. There were
many balls and sociables in honor of those
returned and those about to depart; and
these naturally brought them together.
But he did not seek a renewal of old ties,
though there is small doubt but his advance
would have been received favorably by
that young lady in the face of what had
passed.
	He did not, however, yet feel sure of
himself, and while he had full faith in the
final accomplishment of his object, yet he
did not feel that he had a right to seek her
until he had fully proven himself worthy,
nor to bind her by a promise which she
might desire to break during his absence.
	A bitter struggle this resolve cost him;
but he came off victor, and bade good-bye
to her in common with his other lady
friends, without once having a word with
her in private.
	Poor Grace, lacking the upholding faith
of her lover, was in despair. Her love
during their estrangement, had grown
stronger and stronger as she saw signs of
the reformation she had so prayed for.
In his apparent coldness she imagined she
beheld a weakening of his love and of her
influence, and she sought in vain for the
clue. Not that she abated one whit in the
maidenly reserve in which she had clothed
herself, but in all legitimate channels had
sought to retain her hold upon the object
of her affections. The diminution of his
love seemed now so apparent that pride
came to her rescue, and she resolved to
take refuge in the same course. She had
many admirers and a little encouragement
to the most acceptable made him very de-
voted. But she was not happy and soon
gave him notice to leave. The only
crumb of comfort left was that John paid
no attention to any of the other girls, and
wrote only to his parents and one or two
male friends, always sending his love
equally to all his lady friends.
(Continued)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS JESSIE LIVERMORE, of Chicago, is
a successful designer of art glass. In a
competition of seven of the leading artists 
of the country, she has secured the work of
designing the art window for the elegant
new residence being erected by Mr. and
Mrs. Gougar at La Fayette, Ind.
	THE Business Committee of the N. A.
W. S. A, at its meeting held last week at
Adams, Mass., transacted a good deal of
important business. It was decided that a
large National Suffrage Bazaar should be
held in the fall of 1898, to raise funds for
the work. The place was not definitely 
fixed, but will probably be New York
City.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall, Saturday, July 10th, 1897. Singing
“Now let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion.” Prayer by Sister Whittaker. Sing-
ing “O Jesus the Giver.” President M.
I. Horne presided. She said she felt sorry
to see so few here this afternoon, and
thought the sisters could afford to come to-
gether every fourteen days to worship God,
without the Spirit of God we could do noth-
ing. Said we could stay at home and
delve into work until we would lose the
desire for spiritual food. Spoke of the
saying of the ancient apostles about the
last days; read from the book of Timothy
concerning these prophecies and felt that
this chapter applied to us at this time.
She felt sorry there were so many Sabbath
breakers as there were, and exhorted the
sisters to be united, humble and prayerful.
Said it was the Saints that had to open up
this wonderful Western land, and explained
how the Lord kept this barren land in this
condition until the time came for the
Saints to come here, and now how He had
blessed the land and caused plenty of water
to spring forth where once there was none,
felt we were greatly blessed. Urged the
sisters to cultivate the Spirit of the Lord.
The speaker felt it was a pleasure to serve
the Lord and do His will. Prayed the
Spirit of the Lord might be poured out
upon us this afternoon to bless us and
build us up.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson felt we should
not let the moments go to waste. It was a
privilege to have the opportunity of meet-
ing here. The speaker said we should
show by our presence here our appreciation
of our noble teacher, Sister Horne; spoke
on family prayer and the necessity of it.
Thought if we could keep ourselves right
our influence for good would be great;
knew there was much responsibility on the
mothers. Said to guard our actions and
our words and prayed the Spirit of the
Lord might burn within our hearts con-
tinually.
	Sister Smallie spoke of her appreciation
of the Gospel and of her visit to Rexburg,
and said they were all a good, clean people,
that she never heard a naughty word or
saw a bad action, there was not the pride
there that there is here. Spoke of the
United Order, and felt that the Spirit of
the Lord was more to be desired than any
thing else.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said she could
testify to the truthfulness of the remarks of
Sister Smallie, for she had known her
for many years and knew what she said
came from her heart. Said the blessings of
the Gospel were many, and felt to thank
her heavenly Father for prophets and the
many gifts that were in the Church. Said
these meetings were the happiest meetings
she attended and felt to bless Sister Smallie.
Asked God to bless us all.
	Sister Crow made a few remarks and
spoke of the things the Lord had blessed
her with, that she worked hard but felt to
put her trust in the Lord. Said she was
blessed with a family of good children;
prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister Alder bore testimony these meet-
ings were organized twenty-seven years
ago by President Young in this building. 
She was here at the time Sister Horne was
president and had seven counselors. Sis-

[Column 2]
ters Zina D. H. Young and Sarah M. Kim-
ball were the only surviving counselors.
Said the object of these meetings was to
instruct the Relief Society presidents and
those who felt like attending. It was here
that the precious jewels were dropped from
the lips of our cherished and dear sisters
who were so gifted and prepared to teach
us.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde spoke of meeting
one of the Christian Endeavor ladies, and
she asked them what their object was.
She told her their object was to do good
and relieve the poor. They then entered
into a conversation and she explained the
principles of the Gospel. The speaker felt
impressed to speak of the Sunday excur-
sions, and how greatly they were growing
in our midst.
	President Horne felt we had been blest
in coming together and said much had
been taught, also spoke of our recent
visitors, the Christian Endeavors. Made
some excellent closing remarks, and said
this meeting would be adjourned for four
weeks owing to the Jubilee. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction by Counselor E.
Webb.
			ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.
	IT is stated that women control $130,-
000,000 of stock in the national banks in
this country, and 145,000,000 in the State
banks.
	THE Countess of Aberdeen, president of
the International Council of Women and of
the National Council of Canadian Women,
is now in England and is endeavoring to
organize a National Council of Women for
Great Britain and Ireland.


[Column 1]
		Midwifery Classes.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.
		
		RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.
	
	WILL the Secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion
please send in their reports immediate-
ly to Margaret Y. Taylor, 33 South 1st
West St. Salt Lake City.

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP'S SCHOOL.
	The Winter session of Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp’s School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ties for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, 
			75 Center Street,
			   Salt Lake City, Utah

[Column 2]
		Garfield Beach

	Time Card in Effect June 15th.

[table of train schedule]
[Column 1]
Leave
Salt Lake.
*7:45 a. m.
10:15 a. m.
2:15 p. m.
4:30 p. m.
7:00 p. m.
*Daily except Sundays.
[Column 2]
Arrive
Garfield.
*8:45 a. m.	10:55 a. m.
2:55 p. m.	5:10 p. m.
7:40 p. m.
[Column 3]
Leave
Garfield.
12:25 p. m.
*3:10 p. m.	5:10 p. m.	7:00 p. m.	7:40 p. m.
[Column 4]
Arrive
Salt Lake.
1:05 p. m.
*4:00 p. m.
5:45 p. m.
7:40 p. m.
9:40 p. m.
	Olsen's orchestra every afternoon and evening.
Boating, bathing and dancing. Fare 50c. Depot
corner First South and Fourth West. City ticket
office under Masonic hall, corner Second South and
West Temple streets.
				D. E. Burley, G. P. & T. A.

[image of Union Pacific logo shaped like a shield]
    Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
			DEPART.
“The Overland Limited’’ for Chicago,
  St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
  City. Denver and Park City........ 7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
   Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
   Denver ........................ ...6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all 
   above points than any other line.
			ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
  cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
  Denver and Park City......... 3:10 p.m.
‘‘The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
   Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
City and Denver.............. 3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
  Telephone No. 665.
  The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK.
		OLIVER W. MINK. 
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
		JOHN W. DOANE.
FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
						Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

				R.K. THOMAS
		    Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
			     SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
				  Cash House.
				R.K.THOMAS

				CHOW CHOW.

	2 qts. small onions, 2 qt. cucumbers, 2
qts. cauliflower, 1 qt. green beans 8 qts.
green peppers. Soak in brine 24 hours,
then scald enough vinegar to cover, pour
over and let it stand 24 hours. For sauce
take 2 qts. vinegar, 12 tablespoonfuls of
mustard, 4 tablespoenfuls of curry powder,
4 of flour 2 oz. celery seed, 1 cup of sugar,
cook until clear then pour over the pickles.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1897.		NO 7.


CONTENTS:
	Jean Ingelow—Edith Lovsey. A Heart of
Gold—Clio. A Distinguished French Woman.
The Good Shepherd—Zion’s Convert. Queen
Victoria’s Girlhood E. S. W Ladies’ Sem-
Monthly Meeting—Zina H. Bull, Sec. In
Memoriam. Notes and News. Our Favorite
Recipes.
	EDITORIAL:—Municipal Affairs. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—Marmora—Clara Barton. Only—
Ruth M. Fox.


[Column 1]
MARMORA.

BY CLARA BARTON,
President of the Red Cross Society.

[Written in Constantinople, July 4, 1896, and dedi-
cated to W. W. Peet, Esq.]
It was twenty and a hundred years, O blue and
	rolling sea!
A thousand in the onward march of human
	liberty.
Since on its sunlit bosom, wind-tossed and sails
	unfurled,
Atlantic’s mighty billows bore a message to the
	world.
It thunders down its rocky coast, and stirs its
	frugal homes,
The Saxon hears it as he t[-]ils, the Indian as he
	roams;
The buffalo upon the plain, the panther in his
	lair,
And the eagle hails the kindred note, an
	screams it through the air.
Make way for liberty, it roared, here let the op-
	pressed go free;
Break loose the bands of tyrant hands; this land
	is not for thee!
The Old World in its crusted grasp grinds on
	the souls of men,
Here plant their feet in freedom’s soil, this land
	was made for them!
The mother slept in her island home, but the
	children heard the call,
And ere the western sun went down, had answer-
	ed one and all;
For Britain’s thirteen colonies had vanished in a 
	day,
And six and half a hundred men had signed their
	lives away.
And brows were dark and words were few, the
	steps were quick and strong,
And firm the lips as ever his who treasures up a
	wrong;
And stern the tones that offered up the prayer
	beside the bed,
And many a Molly Stark that night wept tears of
	silent dread.
The bugles call, and swords are out, and armies
	march abreas,
And tho Old World casts a wondering glance to
	the strange light in the west.
Lo, from the lurid ligh[-]ning’s play, free tossing
	in the wind,
Bursts forth the star-gemmed flag that wraps the
	hopes of all mankind!

[Column 2]
And weary eyes grew brighter then, and faint-
	ing hearts grew strong.
And hope was mingled in the cry, How long, O
	Lord, how long?
The seething m[-]llions turn and stir, and struggle
	toward the light;
The free flag streams, and morning gleams where
	erst was hopless night.
The grim Atlantic thunders still adown its rocky
	shores,
And sti[-]l the eagle screams his note, as aloft he
	sails and soars;
And hope is born, that even thou, in some far
	day to come,
O b[-]ue and rolling Marmora! shalt bear the
	message home.
				—The Woman’s Journal


[Column 1]
JEAN INGELOW.

“To poet’s eyes
All things, however mean or common, have
A hidden beauty and a radiance
Not seen by common mortals All God’s works
To him express some tender, loving thought
Which, in the hurry of this busy world,
We do not hear, or do not understand,
The quaint, sweet language that is all their own;
To take these beautiful and tender thoughts
And then translate them into single words
Made easy for his children’s stammering tongues;
This is the poet’s tas[-].”
	Jean Ingelow as a poet put into the
explicit words of mystic rhyme some of the
prettiest pictures of life,—put into the
mind’s mirror so vividly, that the interest-
ed reader forgets the words of the poem,
and sees the picture as if it was mounted
on canvas and encased in the frame before
him. “A mother showing a portrait of
her child,” is a poem matchless and unsur-
passed for illustrating to its readers the
great love of a mother for her child, and
her reflections of the hopes espoused by all
mothers for the heavenly gathering of
the departed. The last two lines of this
poem make a gem of themselves, that we
should all keep shining in our every day
thoughts, and use as a guide for our acts
and love for others:
		“Then thy heart must take forever
		Less than it [-]esto[-]s.”
	How beautiful this sentiment,—and how
much grander our world would be if we all
would “Take less than we bestow!”
Selfishness would then vanish as a mist be-
fore the bright sunshine.
	Jean Ingelow was born in Boston, Lin-
colnshire, in 1820. Her mother was of
Scotch descent, and her father was a well-
to-do banker of fine intellectual culture.
The poetess was exceedingly shy in her
younger days, and lived a quiet, unevent-
ful life until 1863, when the first publica-
tion of the poems secured her recognition
among the great poets and authors of the
day. She was charitable, and her “copy-
right dinners” three times each week to
twelve needy persons just dismissed from
hospitals, was one of her ways of showing
the charitable inclination of her character.

[Column 2]
	She exhibited many of the proofs of the
influence of her surroundings in her poems;
we can see in her poems the influence
the sea, the fine old churches and monas-
tic ruins had upon her. Jean Ingelow was
not spoiled by the fame her works brought
her; she once said “I do not care about
fame, or rather, scarcely believe in such a
thing, but it is a great pleasure, and a very
true one, to give pleasure to so many peo-
ple for the time being.”
	Her friends on this side of the Atlantic
endorsed her to Queen Victoria, and pro-
posed that she be appointed “poet Lau-
eate” of England, but she did not receive
the appointment, although she numbered
Queen Victoria among her personal friends.
	Jean Ingelow died in London July 19,
1897.
				EDITH LOVSEY.


[Column 1]
A HEART OF GOLD.

BY CLIO.
	FLATTERING reports came in of John’s
devotion to the cause, and his success at
winning converts, which was of course a
great comfort to all who knew of his pre-
vious career. And then came the news
that he had finished his labors and was on
the way home at the head of a large com-
pany of emigrants; but it was not known
just when they would reach the valley. A
small company of men with wagons and
provisions had been detailed to go out and
meet the weary travelers, and were already
on their way.
	The happiness of Grace at this news was
somewhat tempered with doubt as to how
her old lover would feel and act toward her.
She had sought bravely enough to carry
out her plans of independence. One after
another she had accepted the attentions of
numerous suitors, but the end had always
been the same. As soon as they showed
any disposition to become lovable, she had
turned against them in spite of herself.
And here she was, twenty-three years of
age and unmarried; with even her affections
unentangled, except with what she called
her “Memories of early girlhood.”
	She sat alone upon the porch step one
September evening enjoying the soft radi-
ance of the harvest moon, and her thoughts
strayed to the oft-present subject of John
Heplar and his return. She wondered how
he would look, how he would act, whether
he would remember their old friendship; or
if he would still be cold and indifferent, as
before he went away. To her credit be it
said, that all such thoughts were strictly
confidential. Outwardly there was no
danger, and no thought of giving an inch,
of betraying by word or sign her feelings,
unless he took the initiative.
	The click of the gate-latch recalled her
attention and she rose to her feet, for up
the long garden path came a strange figure,
and she was alone, She waited expectant-
ly, and her heart almost stood still as he
stood before her, silent, and as though ex-


[Column 1]
pecting her to recognize him. Her heart,
unruly member that it was, decided not to
stop, but gave a great lurch and thumped
lustily enough when a low, earnest, fami-
liar voice exclaimed:
	“Gracie.”—
	The old baby name, spoken in the same
old fashion. She would have known it
among ten thousand!
	“John—John Heplar—is it you? When
did you arrive?”
	“It is I Grace, and no mistake. I got
in about two hours ago. I left the com-
pany some miles back and came ahead
with one of our Elders who is sick. Are
you glad to see me, Grace?”
	She could not trust herself to speak, so
great was her surprise and emotion, but
she raised her eyes to his face, bright with
glistening tears, and held out both her
hands in a sudden impulsive manner. 
	He drew her toward him, looked into
her eyes, and, as if satisfied with what he
found there, folded her in his arms and
kissed her tenderly.
	“Gome into the arbor, dear, I want to
talk to you,” he whispered. And hand in
hand they walked into the old trysting
place, and sat down upon the old home-
made lounge, hallowed by many associa-
tions in the past.
	“Do you remember, Grace, our last
private conversation?”
	Did she! as if every word was not en-
graved on her heart. If he only knew
how many times she had rehearsed the
scene, and wondered if in her self-righteous-
ness she had not dealt harshly with her
wayward lover, he would not have asked
her the question. She did not speak her
thoughts but only said, “Yes, I remember
very well.”
	“And has the old love died out entirely,
Grace, for I believe you loved me in those
old days a little.” As she only hid her
face in her hands, he went on, the hungry
pleading of his long starved heart manifest-
ing itself in his voice.
	“Was I mistaken then, Grace, and am I
to be again driven forth, a prey to the de-
mon of unrequited love?”
	‘‘Oh no, no—dear John—I loved you
then—I love you now, dearer and dearer--
but I thought—”
	“Go on, you thought what—”
	“That you no longer loved me—you see
you were so cold and distant—I thought,
I thought I had offended you beyond resti-
tution.”
	“Grace, darling, that was the turning
point in my life. You did not know dear,
that the vision of this moment has been
my guiding star since that time.”
	“No, I did not know, or I would have
been spared many uneasy moments. But
how pray, did you under existing circum-
stances, dare to conjure up such a picture?”
	“The conjuring was none of mine. God
has been very good to us to preserve us
both for this happiness. Darling, it is His
work. Would you like to hear the story?”
	“Anything—anything, John, for you
are so good and I am so happy.” And
nestling contentedly in the strong arms of
her lover, Grace Alison listened in wonder
and gratitude to the tale of his sufferings
and trials, and their happy culmination.
	“Well you see, when I left you that day
I was the most miserable being on earth. I
could see plainly that one of two things
must happen; either I must lose you, or
bring my life in accordance with that which

[Column 2]
you firmly believed right. The first was
absolute misery; the last I could not do
without conviction. I did not know what
to do or where to go.”
	“Poor boy,” murmured Grace, compas-
sionately, and was rewarded by a kiss for
her sympathy.
	“I wandered about I don’t know where,
and was finally taken in tow by Brother
Harper, who lectured me soundly and gave
me some practical advise, which I resolved
to follow as soon as possible. After he left
me, I wandered on till I came to the river.
Here everything was still and quiet. I
sought out a secluded nook, and there I
tried to pray. Oh Grace I tremble now
when I think of that prayer, it was so bold,
so presumptuous, anything but what a
prayer should be. But I did not tremble
then; I was desperate. I had tried to pray
before, and had received no visible answer.
I was determined to have one now if such a
thing could be. I expect I should have
repeated my experiment had not a couple
of cows routed me, making me think I had
been discovered. I lay down on the bank,
and finally fell asleep. Then it was that
my prayer was so mercifully answered. I
found myself in a bare and dreary plain
which appeared smooth enough in general,
but which as I plodded along, multiplied
obstacles of every name and nature. There
were sticks and stones, briers and thorns,
fallen logs, narrow, deep ravines with mud-
dy water running in them. Sometimes
there was rain and snow, lightning and
thunder. There were multitudes of peo-
ple of all sorts and conditions; some plod-
ding on my way; some going backward,
some to the right or left. Yet in my par-
ticular path I was alone.
	I think I should have given up many
times and turned back, had it not been that
far ahead I could see what looked like
green fields and gardens, which I felt
would be far preferable to the surrounding
desert.
	Well I plodded along and finally reached
the entrance to a green and pleasant valley,
bounded on both sides by green and wooded
hills and extending for a great distance.
At this place I found waiting to accompany
me—whom do you think?
	“I haven’t the remotest idea,” said Grace
feeling a warm glow over her whole body,
belying her tongue.
	“Who indeed but my own dear Grace,
with extended hands and a smile of wel-
come for the wanderer. Grace I have
reached the end of that weary road; I have
entered the beautiful valley. I have found
you waiting with your welcome of love.
The rest of the journey we will take to-
gether. Hand in hand we traversed this
valley together, turning aside now and
then to gather a beautiful flower or ex-
amine some object of interest. We passed
villages and towns and mingled with many
people, and at last found our forward view
obstructed by the sight of a beautiful white
city in the distance. We traveled the in-
tervening distance and in due time entered
the city together. That was the end of my
dream, the interpretation was made known
to me, and that dear, is what has helped
me to overcome some of my evil propensi-
ties, and bring me to my present happiness.
Can you not see the Divine hand in all
this dearest?”
	“I can indeed, dear John; how thankful
we ought to be, and how true, that we may
indeed reach the beautiful goal shown in

[Column 3]
your vision. My own prayers have been
answered too, in that your “heart of gold”
which I always knew you possessed, has
been made patent to the world. I wonder
if such happiness will last.”
	“We shall be as happy as we deserve,
without doubt, and I hope we shall de-
serve a great deal. Let us go now and see
what our mamma’s and papa’s have to say
to this arrangement. We must not forget
them in our new-found happiness.”
	“I should say not; for who among all
our little world will so rejoice at our good
fortune as those who have toiled for us so
long and borne with our frailties so patient-
ly.”
	Evidently they found no opposition in
these directions, for a few months later
there was the happiest kind of a wedding,
to which all the town were bidden. There
was no finery and but little ceremony.
Such Babylonish things had not yet fol-
lowed the exiles to their retreat; but there
was warm hospitality and fraternal feeling,
and plenty of good things to eat. The en-
tertainment wound up with a grand ball in
the evening in which young and old trip-
ped “the light fantastic toe,” until mid-
night, when all decorously sought their
own homes.
	Dear reader, all this transpired more than
thirty-seven years ago. The happy sim-
plicity of those days has given place to a
more stately and ceremonious mode of life,
since “civilization” has found us out.
Many, many dear friends who figured in
those scenes have migrated to the Silent
Land. Many, many new friends have
joined us from their bright former home,
that they too might enjoy the same privi-
leges as we enjoy. Thousands have gath-
ered from every land to help swell our
numbers, and the little handful of refugees
has grown into a mighty host. It is well.
It is as we knew it would be, and as we
know it will continue to be, only in a great-
er degree.
	Time has sown many silver threads
among the brown and golden locks of our
hero and heroine. Children came to their
little home, grew up and began life for
themselves. Grandchildren have followed
in their wake, and if their good luck con-
tinues, great-grandchildren will also “rise
up and call them blessed.” They have
known many joys, but they have not es-
caped all sorrows. Yet true to God, each
other and their convictions of truth, they
are well on their way toward the Beautiful
City, and hope to enter it, hand in hand.
Their love has never waxed cold, and as
for Grace, each passing year has strength-
ened her faith in her husband’s “Heart of
Gold.”
THE END.


WOMANS EXPONENT


ON July 24, Miss Frances E. Willard
went by invitation to what was formerly a
part of the township of Dublin, N. H., to
visit the old home of her grandfather, Rev.
Elijah Willard, of Harvard, Mass., fifth
descendant from Henry, son of Major
Simon Willard, one of the founders of Con-
cord. The old home and church are prac-
tically intact. Miss Willard and Miss Gor-
don participated in the Christian Endeavor
praise meeting in the historic old church,
and placed water lilies (the emblem of the
World’s Woman’s Christian Temperance
Union) on the grave of Rev. Elijah Willard,
who died at the ripe age of eighty-eight,
after serving as pastor for forty years.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ONLY.
ONLY a little baby, 
Nestled on mother’s breast,
Clasping her fingers tightly,
Closing eyes so lightly.
Love’s light burning brightly,
While all is peace and rest
On y a impled darling;
But oh, the pleasure it brings;
Dancing, skipping and singing,
Merry laughter ri ging, 
Plu p ar s upward flinging, 
As in her lap it springs.
Only a lovely maiden,
Or perchance a treasured boy,
Snares for feet unh eding,
List’ning not to pleading,
Downward path is leading,
Away from truth and joy. 
Only a wayward daughter,
Or mayhap an erring son;
The lg t of evil nipping,
Youthful feet are tripping,
By the wayside slipping, 
Alas for evil done
Only one more life wasted,
Steeped in folly and crime; 
To greater depths descending,
Sin aud mis’ry blending,
Regret never ending,
Throughout all future time.
Only a sad-eyed mother,
G ieving till day of her death;
Her heart often sighing,
To God ever crying, 

To save her child trying,
E’en to her last breath.
Only a gray-haired father,
Bowed down with a weight of woe;
The bright word made so dreary,
By one be loved dearly,
Who should have known c’early,
Love and honor to show.
Only a piece of marble
Marking the spot where they lay;
Two lives broken hearted,
Earth’s ha piness thwarted
From recreant one parted,
Perhaps forever and aye.
RUTH M FOX.


[Column 1]
A DISTINGUISHED FRENCH WO-
MAN.

MRS. CLEOPHAS is a native of France,
the daughter of Michel Halbout, an em-
inent sculptor, and her mother came from a
family of Belgium nobility, her name con-
sequently was Eugenie Halbout de Horn.
The family de Horn is one of the oldest and
most renowned in the history of Belgium
and travelers passing through Brussels
never fail to notice the statue of Count de
Horn, which occupies a place in the Hotel
de Ville. She is a lineal descendant of this
brave soldier, noted for his valor, who died
for his country, and inherits much of the
bravery, generosity and patriotism of him
whom she strongly resembles.
Having been taken quite young into the
family of her grandparents de Horn, and
associating with those of mature age, she
showed a seriousness beyond the usual de-
velopment of the youthful mind. 
When only five years of age her father
died, leaving her a fortune in her own
right, whereupon her godfather, the Count
de Miunerkerke Brebisson looked after her

[Column 2]
interests until the time of his death in 1865,
at which time the Count de Meunerkerke,
the minister well known during the reign
of Napoleon III., who was a friend of the
family, was legally made her guardian.
At this time her grandmother, a noble
woman, and herself a woman of great abil-
ity, seeing in the child a great love for
study, placed her in the institute of Mrs.
Blondeau, one of the best colleges in Paris,
where she remained until 17 years of age,
when she passed her examination brilliant-
ly before a commission of academy inspect- 
ors, etc., and received her diploma. She
evinced remarkable proficiency in writing
special Latin exercises, and wrote in her
mother tongue an account of the assassina-
tion of Thomas A. Becket, Archbishop of
Canterbury. The essay was read in the
Sorbonne of Paris by Mr. du Cellier, the
rector at that time, and she was saluted
with enthusiasm and retired with much
honor.
When the war of 1870 broke out, when
everyone in France, women and men,
young and old entered upon the field of
action, Mlle. Halbout de Horn, imbued
with the spirit of the hour and the welfare
of her people at heart, immediately entered
upon the arduous undertaking of providing
food and clothing for the destitute. Under
her personal direction a bureau of benevo-
lence was opened in the Fourteenth arron-
dissement in Paris, and under her personal
supervision women were employed making
clothes for the poor. Assiduously and
systematically this work was carried on
with a most remarkable zeal. Never hesi-
tating, undauntedly she worked, devoting
all her energies to the work that had so
thoroughly enlisted her interest. Hers was
a strong purpose to benefit her fellow
creatures; the result was 2,000 families
were clothed and cared for, and today the
representatives of those families love and 
bless her name. The spirit of benevolence
manifested at this time is deserving of
special commendation when we consider
that at the moment when charity was
needed a fearful war was raging, the dark
and appalling clouds of war hung over her
head and o’ershadowed the prosperity of
her country; it was ’mid the strife of battle,
with bombs falling around her house that
this brave girl gladdened the hearts of
many and faithfully performed her duty.
An instance of her admirable courage
and bravery of a true patriot is shown a t
the time of the civil war which broke out
afterward. When nearly every one went
to the suburbs, this noble girl remained in
her own home with her family, surrounded
by bloodthirsty fiends, who knew no law
and recognized no government. Amid the
fearful carnage Mlle. Halbout de Horn was
held a prisoner by the anarchists, threaten-
ed every hour during six weeks of captivity
with untold horrors and many times threat-
ened to be shot. When questioned as to
her reason for staying when all others had
fled, her reply was: “I did not want the
anarchists to invade my home.”
After the war ended and the regular
government was again established, her
name was proposed for the decoration of
the Legion of Honor. This great honor
she refused to accept, giving as her reason
that she had only done her duty as a true
patriot. Her name was then written in the
Golden Book of the Women of France, in
remembrance of that terrible year, and to
her heart of hearts that reward is sufficient.

[Column 3]
In 1873, at the age of 20 years, she mar-
ried a wealthy importer and during the fol-
lowing 12 years, in company with her hus-
band, visited England, Germany, Spain,
Italy, Switzerland and other countries, be-
coming familiar with all the places visited.
In 1885 her husband was taken very ill
and for two years lingered, suffering intense
agony with that dread disease, a cancer.
His faithful wife assumed the entire care of
the one she loved and while he lived minis-
tered with the devotion of an angel to the
wants of one who was destined never to re-
cover. But death itself must have lost its
terrors when a tender, loving wife was
there to smooth the way as the tired spirit
winged its way heavenward. In March
1887, her husband died, leaving her entirely
alone in the world, as all her relatives had
passed away. The death of her husband
came to her as an overwhelming blow. In
France the women are not protected as
they are in America, therefore when she
had buried her husband new troubles con-
fronted her. When she went to the ceme-
tery to bury her beloved one she was a rich
woman; upon her return to her home she was
poor, for the officers waited to place their seal
upon her possessions, and during the next
six years she was involved in a lawsuit,
meanwhile being obliged to earn her own
livelihood, and compelled to take up the
burden of life. In April 1888 she came to
America, highly recommended by the
French and Belgium consuls as a lady of
remarkable accomplishments, both as a
writer and conversationalist. It was then
that her education proved to be of great
assistance. Her linguistic ability procured
for her an appointment as professor of the
French language in the well known school
of languages, Fisher, in Philadelphia, Penn.;
in Gerard College and also the New Cen-
tury Guild, a college for working women.
At the same time the government of France
took advantage of her departure for this
country to charge her with a mission in the
interest of the Red Cross Society, of which
she was an active member, and when she
came wearing the badge of the Red Cross,
the emblem before which all nations bow,
every door was open for her and a royal
welcome waited her. Visiting the arsenal
in Philadelphia, she was most graciously
received by the directors and accompanied
by the consul of France she inspected the
tent hospital system, in view of recom-
mending the same to the government of
France. She also held correspondence
with the war department at Washington,
D. C., relative to that subject. Her mis-
sion fulfilled she took her chair in the col-
leges named. Her success in all her un-
dertakings was assured from the start. A
beautiful, cultivated woman, noted for her
social, intellectual and benevolent qualities,
she soon became very prominent, and be-
loved by all who knew her.
(Continued.)


NANTUCKET’S historic windmill has be-
come the property of the Nantucket His-
torical Association, which will preserve the
ancient landmark.
	“PRENTIS HALL” is the name given to
the new building at Forest Park, Chautau-
qua Assembly, presented to the women of
Kansas by the citizens of Ottawa. The
building was named in honor of Mrs.
Noble L. Prentis. of Kansas City, Mo.,
formerly of Kansas.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	- 	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1897


[Column 1]
MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS.

	THE talk of the town, here, there and
everywhere at the present time, is the
coming city election and the reforms that
ought to be inaugurated in the way of
economical expenditure, as well as in
enforcing the laws prohibiting evil prac
tices. There are laws and ordinances
enough on the statute books of the city to
meet every phase of wrong-doing if the
men in official positions (to which they
have been elected by a majority vote of the
people) had the courage to see the laws en-
forced in the interest of justice, regardless
of anything but the welfare of the people of
the city. But there is a lack of moral
energy somewhere in the body politic of
the city officials evidently, because there
are flagrant offences against good order and
sobriety, and these serious matters are pass-
ed over and no one seems to know why the
parties go unpunished, and pursue the
same or similiar evil practices. And so
crime and vice multiplies and the people
submit for the time being because forsooth
they see no redress that seems available.
And yet the avenues for economic adminis-
tration, of local civil government are all
open, and there seems no good reason for
neglect of duty on the part of those in
power.
	The people have become weary with the
lack of discipline, and surely after the ef-
forts now being made the people will put
a non partisan ticket in the field that
can be supported by a large majority, among
whom there should be the new voters (the
women) who almost without exception are
anxious for a decided reform in the manage-
ment of city affairs; they are not willing
that saloons should be open on Sunday,
not even the back doors, nor that liquor
should be sold to boys under age on any
day in the week, or cigarettes either. The
habit is terrible, and yet these very things
are done, and the offenders go unpunished.
	So long as good, honorable, upright
men and women absent themselves from
the primary and excuse themselves on the
plea of lack of time or because so many bad
men go and “pack” the primary, just so
long these evils will exist; but if on the
other hand good, honest men and women
go to the primaries and stand for the rights
of the citizens to good government there
might soon be a radical change, and that
change should be made at this coming elec-
tion in November.
	The good women of this city should

[Column 2]
come out in full force and see to it that
every man or woman who is nominated for
any office within the gift of the people of
the city should have a clean record. Stand
firm and maintain the honor and best inter-
ests of the people, for justice and equality
as well as economy in all departments.
	These matters are being taken in hand
in many of the large cities, and even where
women have not the privilege of the ballot
they are doing good work in these direc-
tions. How much more the women of
Salt Lake City can do with the ballot in
their hands is easy to perceive. And there
is no question about its being high time to
do it. There should be no wavering, no
hesitating---dare to do your plain duty con-
scientiously and let the watch-word be
reform, remember always “eternal vigilance
is the price of liberty.” Do not allow un-
principled men to get your votes, and rob
you and your children of their homes and
inheritances by increased taxation and by
their sophistry and cunning lead you to
believe, it is all in the interest of progress.
Prosperity and progress comes more surely
when the larger number of people own
their homes. It was the policy of the
pioneers who settled these vales, and in
this city, as well as in smaller cities, towns
and villages, but of late years many have
drifted away from this practice, and the
people are less independent because of mak-
ing other investments and involving the
home. Agriculture and gardening are not
very remunerative just at present perhaps
but if the majority of the people are going
into mining and similar pursuits, they
must be supplied with grain and other pro-
visions and those who till the land will not
be at their mercy, but will be the ones who
will fix the value of breadstuffs and the
like. From all appearances now the pro-
phecies of Brigham Young, Heber C. Kim-
ball and others are likely very soon to be
literally fulfilled. Therefore be advised in
time and don’t give away your inheritance
(or your birthright) for a mess of pottage.
The Lord is watching over His people and
those who listen to counsel and keep the
commandments given to them in this day
and age as well as in the former days, will
be able to stand when “all that can be
shaken will be shaken,” as the Scripture
says.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MANY of the Relief Society Conferences
are being held about this time, and are
being attended by sisters from the city by
invitation of their officers. We have been
expecting reports of these Conferences for
publication or for the records, but so far
there have been very few minutes sent in.
It is impossible to keep posted in regard to
these Conferences unless the Secretaries
send the minutes to headquarters. Some
changes have been made in officers and
new branches organized, which should be
reported.
	WE wish to call the attention of the sis-
ters and our good friends to the Woman’s
Store on First South St., just a little west
of Main St. in the Nauvoo building.
Ladies will find there almost everything
needful in the way of dress and articles for
use. Mrs. Maria Francis and her daughter
Mrs. Kelly are very desirous of pleasing
the public in the way of dry goods and
potions, and are well posted in the details


of business and know how to buy as well as
to sell. They are polite, courteous and
kindly and make it a pleasure to attend to
customers. They make a speciality of
dressmaking and millinery in connection
with the store. Mrs Francis was in busi-
ness many years in London before coming
to Utah. Ladies remember this is a co-
operative woman’s enterprise, and examine
the articles here before buyiug anywhere
else. Your patronage is earnestly solicited.
	MISS JESSIE ACKERMAN, a world-re-
nowned celebrity, is now on a visit to Salt
Lake City, and has delighted her audiences
by her eloquence, earnestness and enthusi-
asm in reform movements, principally tem-
perance. Miss Ackerman has an excellent
voice for large buildings, and in the Taber-
nacle in this city she had to make no extra
exertion whatever in order to be heard
distinctly. She is a great traveler, having
been twice around the world, and in many
lands, China, India, Japan, Africa, Iceland
and most of the European countries. She
has climbed to the summit of the Alps and
other notable heights, and has also donned 
a divers suit and been to the depths of the
sea. Spiritually as well as temporally Miss
Ackerman has been climbing into heights
and also diving into depths, not to fish for
pearls however, but for human souls. In
visiting our sanctum with Mrs. E. E.
Shepard (a teacher of this city) she found
the Primary Association officers meeting in
session and being invited spoke a few
words of encouragement to them, saying
that the work for the children appealed
very strongly to her heart. Miss Acker-
man has been instrumental in aiding the
W. C. T. U. in many, very many countries,
and we sincerely wish her God speed in her
noble work of love and reform, undertaken
for the betterment of the home and the up-
lifting of the human family.


THE GOOD SHEPHERD.

	DO we not read in Holy Writ that He
who scattered Israel would gather them as
a shepherd does his flock? And again we
read in Ecclesiastes 3rd chapter: it reads
thus: "There is a time and a season for
every purpose under the sun. A time to be
born and a time to die. A time to plant
and a time to pluck up that which is plant-
ed. A time to cast away stones and a
time to gather stones. A time to embrace
and a time to refrain from embracing," etc.
	Did not the angel Moroni tell the Pro-
phet Joseph upon showing him the gold
plates in the hill Cumorah, "It is not time
to take them out yet for four years; but
come here and meet me once a year until it
is time to take them." That Joseph did,
so we read in his history. Does not this
agree with Ecclesiastes, the preacher, the
son of King David of Jerusalem, who said
there is a time for every purpose under the
heavens?
	Accordingly there must be a time to
gather Israel. Now I would ask has that
time arrived? I did not think so fifty-five
years ago, when told that a Mormon preach-
er had come to Ithaca to preach the new
doctrine; would I go and hear him tell us
of a prophet and a new bible lately dis-
covered?
	Oh no, why should I since the Savior
was our teacher, and the New Testament
was our guide? I was satisfied, believing
as I did the Episcopal church to be nearer


the Apostolic church than any other, is not
this sufficient? Prophets are no longer
needed since the Savior came, and He is
our teacher. Is not our Bible sufficient for
our salvation?
	I had no curiosity on the subject, but my
friend Mrs. Monroe, was so highly interest-
ed in the preacher she insisted on my
going to hear him, saying, “You know
the Bible tells us that ‘He who judges a
matter without hearing it is a fool.’ ”
“Yes of course it is so. I will go and
hear him myself, but do not expect to see
as he does.” I went and found the preach-
er, Elder James Blakesley, preached Bible
doctrine to the very letter. I could see no
fault, and on going several times concluded
that every one who believed the Bible
would accept the Gospel exactly as Jesus
taught it, to be prepared for the Millenium.
	Did He not say “In vain ye cry unto
me: Lord, Lord, and do not the things
which I say." He also said "My sheep
know my voice and a stranger will they
not follow.” Now what does St. John tell
us about this good Shepherd?
	Please read the 1st chapter, 9th verse, it
reads: "He was the true light, lighting
every one that cometh into the world. The
world was made by Him, and the world
knew Him not. He came to His own and
His own received him not. But as many
as received Him, to them gave He power to
become the sons of God, even to them who
believed on His name.”
	13th verse: “He was not born of blood
nor of the will of the flesh nor the will of
man, but of God. And the Lord was
made flesh and dwelt among us, and we be-
held the glory of the only begotten of the
Father, full of grace and truth.”
	Now please tell me why did the Deity
come down and dwell in the flesh among
hnmanity? Was it not to organize His
Kingdom on the earth, and to teach the
human family how to gain the victory over
this fallen nature of ours? He grew up
from infancy to manhood and had a taste of
very bitter things that flesh is heir to; did
He not? Showing us at the same time the
higher law, which is “Peace on earth, and
good will to all mankind." Nor did He
value His own life nor the lives of those
who were sent to help Him accomplish this
great work. Every one of His apostles
were slain excepting John the revelator, be-
cause he met with that change which is
equivalent with death. They had no fear
of death, for Jesus came to bring to pass
the resurrection of the dead.
	This life is short, but it will prepare all
who are faithful in keeping the laws of
God for a life which has no end. How
important then that we give strict heed to
the laws given by the Savior of mankind,
the Shepherd of our souls, who never for-
gets any only those who forget Him, or
choose some other rule of action. For to
all He gives their agency, besides giving
them every faculty of mind and body they
possess. Yet when they serve Him it
must be in spirit and in truth to be accepta-
ble to Him.
ZION'S CONVERT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
QUEEN VICTORIA'S GIRLHOOD.

	It is seldom the privilege of a biographer
 to have so interesting and so good a subject
as her R. H. Queen Victoria. By the way,
it seems odd to speak of the queen as a sub-

[Column 2]
ject, At the time of her birth it was well
known that she was a royal little personage,
being a direct descendant of Alfred the
Great, renowned by thirty-five generations,
and thirty-seventh from the first to be de-
clared and acknowledged King of all Eng-
land. Though being of such noble birth
there were also others, and it was by no
means certain that she would occupy the
throne. But it does appear, though she
herself did not declare it as one other did,
that she was a child of destiny. The nu-
merous escapes when her life was in jeopar-
dy, the gradual and silent slipping away of
those between her and the throne, her long
and glorious reign all would faypr this
theory. She is a grand-daughter of George
III., King of England at the time of the
American Revolution. Her father, who
was Edward Duke of Kent, was the fourth
son of the king, and only differed from his
family in being better than the others.
	He married a German princess, Victoria
of Leiningen. She was a widow and the
mother of two children. The Duke, who
was very philanthropic and noble in dis-
position, and on that account most
popular with his countrymen though only
a younger son, was also poor. His allow-
ance was miserably small compared with his
expenditures, and these were not made in
fashionable excesses. Upon his marriage
in 1818 he went to live in Germany with
his bride. The mother of Victoria was a
woman of superior wisdom, with much
common sense and determination. And
one knows not how much of the happiness
of this world today depends upon the wis-
dom, strength of character and goodness of
that one little woman as manifested in the
training of her daughter.
	Shortly before the birth of Victoria the
Duke and Duchess of Kent removed to
England, with a feeling of commendable
patriotism, that their child might be born
on English soil, or as her mother expressed
it ‘‘that she might be born and bred a
Briton."  And a bonny, winsome child it
was that came to bless their home. She
came on May 24, 1819, at Kensington
Palace, and was known to all England as
“the little Mayflower.’’ Her father named
her Alexandrina Victoria after the Czar of
Russia and her own beloved mother. She,
however, after arriving at woman’s estate,
though still young, perhaps vaguely realiz-
ed something of what her mother had done
for her. However, that may be, when she
came to affix her signature the first time as
monarch of the kingdom she determined
that no name should precede or supercede
that of her beloved mother and signed sim-
ply “Victoria.’’ She was but a few
months old when her father, who had un-
wisely remained out in the grounds until
he became damp and cold, upon coming in
could not restrain his impatience to see his
darling child but went straight to her nurs-
ery before putting on dry shoes. The re-
sult was a chill, pneumonia and death. It
is reputed that on one occasion when he
put his child in his attendants arms he said,
“ Take care of her, for she will be queen of
England.’’ That must surely have been
what in women would be called intuition.
	The widowed mother now had naught to
live for but her child. She was not greatly
beloved by her husband’s relatives, most
probably because she was not understood.
But a more devoted mother could not be.
She and her child were seldom parted even
for a short time. The little princess al-

[Column 3]
ways had her little bed beside her mamma,
at meals her little table was also beside her
mamma, and there she ate her bread and
milk and fruit. Her health was tenderly
cared for. As a very young child she was
not robust, but health and strength were
fostered by the discipline and daily regime
of her young life. As soon as she was old
enough she had her daily course of lessons,
followed by riding walking, and simple
recreations. Her half sister, Princess
Fedora, was her companion. She was
very fond of her little garden under the
palace windows, and has often been observ-
ed amusing herself there as other children
do, sometimes sprinkling her flowers and
herself simultaneously.
	Her education was conducted under the
watchful and faithful supervision of her
mother, the Baroness Lehzen and Bishop of
______. being her instructors. She be-
came very much attached to the baroness
and made her one of her chief court ladies.
It is said that lack of wealth in the family
was not an unmixed evil. The duchess
was obliged to practice economy. Think
of a duchess being obliged to be economical!
And it most likely laid the foundation for
the thrift and economy which have charac-
terized the reign of Victoria, and heightened
the power and influence of the action.
	Her life as a child moved with the regu-
larity and precision of clock work, and
orderly and regular habits have been ad-
hered to through her life. She studied
modern languages but did not like Latin.
However, it was part of a discipline. She
excelled in music, drawing and painting.
It is said she might have made a name for
herself if life had not been filled by the
duties of a queen. Her voice was clear and
musical, and to this day strangers note her
clear enunciation in speaking and her fine
tones. The education of the princess was
conducted in. such a way that she did not
know until she was twelve or fourteen
years of age, (biographers differ as to the
time) how near to the succession she was.
It was then her governess, Baroness Leh-
zen, thinking it time for her to know, set
before her a genealogical tree to draw out.
	Presently she said, “I can not see who
is to come after Uncle William unless it is
myself.’’ “So it is Madame,” replied the
governess. Then the princess uttered her
thoughts aloud: “Now many a child
would boast, not knowing the difficulty.
There is much splendor, but there is more
responsibility.” After this she put her
little hand into the hand of her teacher and
said, “I will be good. I will be good.”
	It seems to me her future life was fore-
shadowed by that circumstance. Her life
was as simple and quiet as any little country
maiden in many ways, but there was al-
ways the feeling with her trainers that they
were forming the character of a queen.
She saw but little of court life, and during
the time of her uncle, George IV., it was
well she did not. When William III. as
cended the throne, he was bluff and hearty,
for he had been the sailor prince. His
manners were far from ideally royal. One
has a right to expect fair manners and
noble graces and virtues from royalty; but 
such persons are often disappointing.
King William having no heirs and realizing
that Victoria was next in succession, rudely
remarked in the presence of the Duchess of
Kent and before a host of people, that he
hoped he would live to see the princess at-
tain her majority. He wanted no queen


[Column 1]
regent. The duchess turned quite pale at
the affront, but wisely spoke no words and
immediately withdrew from the royal com-
pany. As for the princess her eyes im-
mediately filled with tears at the humilia-
ation of her mother.
	When twelve years of age Victoria at-
tended her first drawing room and as heir
presumptive stood on the left of Queen
Adelaide. She was much admired for her
innocence and the dewy freshness of her
beauty, besides always having fine and en-
gaging manners. On the 24th of May,
1837 the princess attained her majority. It
was a day of great rejoicings. She was
awakened by a serenade, the words of the
song being composed for her. There were
feasts, illuminations and all kinds of holi-
day doings. The king, whose wish was
gratified in seeing her thus come of age,
gave a grand ball, “at which the princess
for the first time took precedence of her
mother” She is said to have blushed
sligh[-]ly at this change of conditions. The
king himself was too ill to attend and the
princess occupied the central chair of state
but the king sent his niece a present of a
piano worth a thousand dollars.
	During the evening she danced with the
Austrian Prince Esterhazy. He is known
to history chiefly for his attire. Grace
Greenwood says “he looked as if he had
been snowed on with pearls and rained on
with diamonds.’’ He really sparkled with
jewels from head to foot, they were even on
the heels of his boots. “It was said that
whenever he wore this splendid costume he
lost numerous gems without either know-
ing or caring.” Of course many congratu-
latory addresses were presented to this
Royal Princess who was now so near the
throne.
	On the morning of June 20th at 10
o’clock, less than a month after his niece
attained her majority, King William died.
As this result was expected a carriage had
been kept in waiting and immediately the
Archbishop of Canterbury of the Lord
Chamberlain drove to Kensington
Palace. Arriving about 4 o’clock they
found some difficulty in gaining admission,
and more in getting audience of H. R. H.
They desired an attendant to say they wish-
ed to see the H. R. H. on business of im-
portance. After some delay the messenger
returned to say the princess was in such a
sweet sleep she could not venture to dis-
turb her. They replied, “We are come on
business of state to the Queen and know
her sleep must give way to that."
	“It did; and to prove that she did not
keep them waiting in a few moments she
came into the room in a loose white night-
gown and shawl her night-cap thrown off
and her hair falling upon her shoulders,
and her feet in slippers, tears in her eyes,
but perfectly collected and dignified.” The
queen's first words, turning to the Primate,
were “I beg your Grace to pray for me,"
which he did. The next thing was to
write to the widowed queen, Adelaide a
sweet letter, in reply to a request that she
might stay at Windsor until after the funer-
al. It was addressed to “Her Majesty,
the Queen." Some one remarked that it
should be addressed to the Queen Dowager.
“I am aware of that.” was the reply, “but
will not be the first to remind her of her
altered position."
	At eleven o'clock of the same day she
entered upon her duties as queen, attend-
ing her first meeting of the Privy Council.

[Column 2]
The first impression she created was very
favorable, the most adverse, if there were
such could not help being struck by her
calm demeanor, and the quiet dignity,
mingled with girlish sweetness and
modesty.
	“The Duke of Wellington told the Clerk
of the Council, that if she had been his own
daughter he could not have desired to see
her perform her part better.’’ And this
was surely great praise from the Iron Duke,
	After the formal proceedings of taking
the oath etc., the Privy Council was sworn;
and she is said to have blushed to the tem-
ples when her elderly uncles knelt to do
her homage. The girlish feeling of family
respect was at that moment uppermost. An
hour after the Privy Council, came that of
the Cabinet Ministers. And the newly
fledged young queen presided over this also
with much ease and dignity, as though she
had always been accustomed to it. Shortly
after her accession the queen went through
the ronnd of balls, receptions, drawing-
rooms, concerts etc., in honor of the event.
“At Her Majesty’s first soiree there were
ten thousand gentlemen present. The
crush was so great that orders and decora-
tions were torn off and diamond buckles
lost from shoes.” Victoria had been queen
a year and a week, and a day when her
coronation took place.
	She ascended the throne at eighteen, was
crowned at nineteen and happily married at
twenty. If that is’nt fine enough for any
fairy story what could be?
	The coronation ceremonies were conduct-
ed with all the pomp and magnificence
that the occasion required, though the
young queen had shown her wisdom and
thrift by omitting certain portions of what
had been heretofore the ceremonial. She
showed her patriotism too, by having her
coronation robes made entirely in her
native land. The Honiton lace alone gave
work to many poor people in a time of
scarcity too. Is it any wonder she has
been beloved by her people from the first
day of her reign? It is said to be a very
imposing spectacle and one truly regal as
this young queen in her virgin freshness
and modesty marched to Westminister
abbey for the coronation. Her coach of
glass and gilding and her eight stately
white horses wiih their fine trappings, and the
noble escort of all grades of nobility formed
a great pageant. And the enthusiastic and
admiring multitude with their cheers, huz-
zas and waving of handkerchiefs, must have
been reassuring to the youthful sovereign.
The climax of spectacular grandeur was
reached when at the services the crown was
placed on the queen's head, and simultan-
eously the peers and peeresses crowned
themselves with their coronets. Some of
the ladies of nobility had remained in West-
minister abbey in their gala attire six or
seven hours or more. It must have taken
several sorts of emotions to sustain them
that long.
E. S. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday, Aug 7, 1897, President M. I.
Horne presiding Singing “For the
strength of the hills we bless Thee.”
Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wilcox. Sing-
ing “’Mid scenes of confusion.” Minutes

[Column 2]
of previous meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne said we had just had a
very busy time of it with the Jubilee.
Spoke of the seducing sptrits that were
abroad trying to darken the minds of the
people. This was one of the signs of the
times, quoted sayings of the Savior, and
spoke against Sabbath breaking. Said we
should teach our children self-denial and
curtail them in so much indulgence, see
that they were not out late at night. Ex-
horted the sisters to store their minds with
knowledge out of good books and urged
the mothers to set a good example for their
children. Said the more we sought after
the Spirit of God we should be blessed.
	Sister Cobb felt the sisters who met here
Saturday after Saturday were the salt of
the earth, also those who were trying to
keep the commandments of God. Felt
they were the sisters who were humble and
prayerful and those who had suffered.
Felt to testify that those whom the Lord
loves He chasteneth, and that some day we
would know the whys and wherefores. Said
her work lay with the children and that she
had been blessed in it. 
	Sister M. O. Brown hoped we might so
live that the destroying angel might pass
us by.
	Sister Armeda Snow Young was thank-
ful that she had the light of the Gospel.
She heard Sister Eliza R. Snow say once in
a meeting that her constant prayer was
that she might never apostatize. Prayed God
might bless our aged counselor and teacher
President Horne, that she might live many
years yet.
	Sister Rawlings said she was seventy-
three years old and could see to thread a
needle without glasses, felt she had much
to be grateful for. Bore her testimony.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony. Sister Mary Ann Hardy said
we must ever be on the watch and be
prayerful She felt she had much to be
thankful for and bore her testimony.
	Singing “Praise to the man.” A Sis-
ter in the congregation felt it a great privil-
ege to come to these meetings, she came a
long way to get here but was blessed in
coming. She felt thankful the Lord had
opened her way to come to Zion.
	Sister Butterworth felt the adversary was
abroad trying to lead the young away. 
Said she was the mother of eighteen child-
ren, but the Lord had seen fit to take four-
teen of them, felt to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in it.
	Sister Mary Silver felt thankful she had a 
standing in the Church and hoped she
might remain faithful. 
	Sister Wright felt it a duty as well as a
privilege to speak of the goodness of God to
her. She felt we had much to be thankful
for, and spoke of fasting and prayer, felt
sorry to see so few here, she had come
eighteen miles to be here today.
	Sister Nunn testified how she had been
healed by faith. Sister Cooper told how
her prayers had been answered in regard to
her son who had been weak in the faith,
but now had lately been baptized along
with his family, and said she felt like re-
lating this for the encouragement of others.
	President Horne made closing remarks,
spoke encouragingly to the mothers in re-
gard to their children. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks. Singing “This God is the 
God we adore.” Benediction by Counselor
E. Webb.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.


MINUTES of the Ladies Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall, August 20, 1897, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “Redeemer of
Israel.” Prayer by Sister Wright. Sing-
ing “O ye mountains high.” Minutes of
previous meeting read and accepted.
	President Horne said another two weeks
had rolled around, and we were permitted
to come together again. A sister had said
she thought when she, Sister Horne, passed
away these meetings would end, but there
were others who felt the importance of these
meetings, and felt the importance of these
meetings, and felt her usefulness was not
lived out yet. These meetings were a
great blessing and she hoped we would all
feel the necessity of attending. Spoke of
the great plan the Prophet Joseph Smith
had formed in turning west, and Brigham
Young had carried out, and we were now
enjoying their labors. Spoke of the thou-
sands who had been gathered out and the
indifference of the people now. Gave the
parable of the sower, and would like to live
to see Zion purified. Made many instructive
remarks.
	Sister Davis knew the Gospel was
true; needed a blessing and thought she
would receive one today.
	Sister Phelps knew the words of the
prophet had been fulfilled, we had many
years of experience and we ought to be
better people. Spoke of the indifference of
the rising generation, our lack of faith in
healing, and hoped the Lord would help all
those who made the effort to do right.
	Sister Maria B. Barnes had been forty-
two years in the Church, her faith had
been strengthened by the healing of her
daughter; had been prayed for in the
House of God and been restored, wanted to
do what was right and bore a strong testi-
mony.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said the greater 
efforts and sacrifices we made, the greater
our blessings would be. Felt it was our duty 
to speak of the goodness of God, quoted from
the Book of Mormon and said the sisters
needed to be missionaries as much as the
brethren, and they had a work to perform
in Zion. She was trying to redeem her
kindred dead, and felt blessed in having 
the testimonies of the sisters. 
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson had looked
forward to this meeting, as she had been
absent from the last. She had been in the
Church forty-three years and felt she had so
much to be thankful for; felt to acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in all things,
and knew that those who had attended
these meetings had grown in grace. She
felt the good spirit that was here. Let us
uphold Sister Zina and Sister Horne in
our prayers. Spoke in regard to mothers
having a watchful care over their children
and praying for the boys that were on mis-
sions.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and said she had many things to
be thankful for. Another sister in the
congregation felt she would be condemned
if she did not express her thankfulness  to
her Heavenly Father for His goodness.
She knew the Lord blessed the sisters in
these meetings.
	Sister Frink thought we lost our inter-
est when we stayed from our meetings; ex-
pressed her gratitude to God in leading her
through the struggle of life, and the bless-
ings of the Gospel.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and gave her expression of

[Column 2]
thankfulness. Sister J. T. Carrington spoke
on the Patriarchal order of marriage and
the benefit of these meetings; bore her testi-
mony. Another sister spoke of the good-
ness of God to her and prayed for Aunt
Zina and Sister Horne.
	Sister Horne closed by saying she was
edified with the testimonies of the sisters.
Singing “Lord dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing.” Benediction, by Sister Clara C. Can-
non.
					M. Y. TAYLOR.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM

ELIZABETH ISOLA MORRILL.
	With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of Sister Elizabeth Isola Morrill, who de-
parted this life July 29, 1897. She was born in
Iron Co., Utah. Sep. 30 1864. She was the
daughter of Edward Homer and Sarah Stoker
Davis. The 28th of January, 1887 she was mar’
ried to Homer Morrill of Junction, Piute Co-,
Utah. Four small children are left to learn
through the keenest sorrow the loss of a mothers
unselfish love. A husband is bereft of a faithful
companion for whom he will ever mourn. A
fond mother, brother and sifter deeply grieve the
loss of a daughter and sister. Sister Morrill was
an active member in the Relief Society, acting at
one time as secretary also as teacher. She was
president of the Primary for a number of years
until the cares of a family and poor health forced
her to resign her public duties. She was never
so happy as when laboring in the cause of right.
Her life was a worthy example for all.
	Farwell dear sister, we do not mourn thee,
	As one dead, but gone before
	From thy labor and thy suffering,
	With thy kindred evermore.
		HELEN MORRILL, Ass’t. Sec’y.
SISTER ELIZA G LYONS.
	Sister Eliza G. Lyon whose death occured on
the 30th of June, 1897, was the daughter of Geo.
and Elizabeth H. Goddard She was born in Leices-
ter, England, October 20, 1841. At the age of
ten she left England with her parents October 11,
1851, and arrived in St. Louis by way of New 
Orleans and Mississippi River, Jan. 1. 1852. They
started for Salt Lake City June 9, and arrived at
the latter place September 15, 1852.
	She was always an obedient daughter, kind and
generous sister, and fulfilled well her part as a
wife and mother. Her usefulness extended be-
yond the home. In September 1889 she became
treasurer of the 12th Ward Relief Society, at the
same time acting as visiting teacher, which posi-
tion she held up to the time of her death. With
kindness and patience she fulfilled these duties
and will ever be held in kind and affectionate re-
membrance by those with whom she was asso-
ciated.
	In the death of Sister Lyon the Society loses a
most faithful officer and member, and her sudden
departure is a great grief to all her relatives and
associates. She leaves a husband and nine chi[-]d-
ren to mourn her loss. She rests from her labors
and her works will follow her
		JULIA A. DRUCE, Pres’t
		ANNIE KINGSBURY Sec’y.
SKETCH AND RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	To the memory of Sister Elizabeth R. Bromley
who died at her residence in American Fork,
July 9, 1897. Elizabeth Roylance Bromley was
born Aug. 26, 1842 in Iowa and came to Utah
with her parents in 1850, and settled in Spring-
ville where she was married to Brother Wm.
M. Bromley November 16, 1859. She was the
mother of ten ch[-]ldren, six of whom survive her,
three sons and three daughters. She removed to
American Fork in 1883 and became a fai[-]hful
member of the Relief Society.
	On May 17, 1887 she was chosen second
counselor to the president, Sister Mary S. Hindley
and c[-]ntinued in the same position after Sister E.
D. Clarke was appointed president, a position
which she filled with credit to herself and satis-
faction to the Society; and though not a fluent
speaker she was willing at all times to fulfill the
duties required of her in administering to the
poor and needy and performing any labor that
was required of her.
	She was a kind, thoughtful mother, sacrificing
her own comfort for the benefit of her family.
She was also un[-]versally respected and esteemed

[Column 2]
as a neighbor and friend. Her greatest wish
during her sickness was that she could have gone
[-]o the Temple of the Lord and continued the
labor of love which she had commenced; but the
great Father willed it otherwise, and the work of
redeeming the dead is left to the children who re-
main behind her. She had accepted the law of
celestial marriage and her reward will be among
those who have lived the law of sacrifice. She
was faithful to the end and as such will have a
crown of immortality and eternal life in the man-
sions of the blest. Therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That we as a Relief Society have
lost in Sister Bromley an ever willing worker and
wise counselor, that we esteem her memory and
deplore her loss, and we pray our Heavenly
Father to bless and comfort her family in their
great bereavement and
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed
upon our records, a copy be sent to the family
and one to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.
		ELLEN D. CLARKE
		JEMIMA DURRANT,
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
						Committee,
ANN SOUTHWELL S. CLARK.
	IN memory of Sister Ann Southwell S. Clark
who died at the residence of her son, Lorenzo S.
Clark, June 8, 1897, aged 81 years, 8 months and
20 days. She was the daughter of Charles and
Sarah Southwell and was born in Cambridge,
England, Sep 18, 1815, married William Seymore
and had one son, Charles W. Seymore now re-
siding in Summit Co. She was baptized and
confirmed April 1850, by Brothers T. W. Johnson
and Goates, and was married to Benj. T. Clark
May, 1850. She came over the sea in the ship
Golconda, crossed the plains in Cyrus H.
Wheelock’s company and arrived in Sugar House
ward October 6, 1853. She passed through
many trials and privations incident to the early
days in these valleys, and was industrious and an
expert embroiderer, by which means she helped
to gain a livelihood for her family. She with
her husband accepted all the principles made
known to the Saints for their advancement and
exaltation in our Father’s kingdom.  When the
Relief Society was first organized in this ward
she was appointed a teacher and she took great
pleasure in performing this duty, which she ddi
fuithfully till July 1888, when she went to reside
with her daughter Mrs. Ellen Siddoway at Rock-
port.
	Funeral services were held at the ward meet-
ing house. Brothers James Johnston, George W.
Larkins, Joseph E. Taylor, Bishop A. Driggs
and Mrs. Sarah B. Gibson spoke of our departed
sister and their remarks were comforting and
consoling.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has called
from our midst our loved and respected sister,
Ann S. Clark, be it
	RESOLVED, That we the members of the Re-
lief Society of Sugar House ward extend our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family and
friends. We feel she died as she has lived a
faithful Latter-day Saint, and that our loss is her
gain. 
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, that they be record-
ed upon the Society record and a copy be sent to
the WOMAM’S EXPONENT for publication.
		SARAH B. GIBSON,
		BETSY BOLLWINKEL,
		ESTHER S. HARDY,
					Committee.
SISTER LYDIA MCKNIGHT
	Lydia McKnight was born Oct. 8, 1826 at Nor-
wich, England. She was baptized as a member
of the Church by Claudius V. Spencer in 1855,
emigrated to Zion in 1862.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTIONS of Respect adopted by the Re-
lief Society of Minersville Aug. 11, 1897.
	WHEREAS, on the 7th day of August, 1897, it
pleased an alwise Creator to remove from our
midst by death one of our beloved sisters.
	WHEREAS, she has always taken an active part
in the Relief Society since its first organization.
She was elected president of the Relief Society
Jan. 30, 1871, which office she held for five
years. She has held the office of counselor for
several years, as long as her health would per-
mit. She has filled the office of teacher in the
Relief Society and Sabbath School also presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A., which office she filled


with faithfu'ness and integrity, showing by her
example and precept that she was willing to do
her duty. She was always held in the highest
esteem by all those who knew her, every ready
and willing to help those that were in need.
Therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That the Society, also the commun-
ity have sustained a severe 1 ss in the demise of
one so good and usef l. Therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathies to the bereaved husband and relatives.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the records of the Relief Society, al-
so one sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publi-
cation and one presented to her husband.
 
   Written by theMinersville Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake will convene 
in the Assembly Hall on Saturday, Sep.
18, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.
		     M. ISABELLA HORNE, Pres.

[Column 2]
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts

Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, October
ll, 1897. Reduction in tuition to ladies
from any branch of the Relief Society.
For further information address Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts, 437 East Second So.
Tel. 236 - rings; short-long-short.

		Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City. 

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP'S SCHOOL,
	The Winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP’S School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October llth,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ties for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address		ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	
		    R.K. THOMAS
	Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
		SALT LAKE CITY. 
		The Leading Retail
			Cash House. 
R.K. THOMAS

[Column 3]
		LAST EXCURSION NORTH.

		    Saturday, September 18th.
Via Oregon Short line, at the following
low rates.
     To				Rate.	Limit.
Brigham.............$2 25 		15 days
Collinston......................  3 00		15 days
Meudon.........................  3 25			15 days
L[-]gan..........................  3 50			15 days
Smithfield......................  3 75		15 days
Richmond......................  4 00		15 days
Franklin.........................  4 25		15 days
Preston..........................  4 50			15 days
Oxford..........................  4 25			15 days
McCammon..................  5 75			15 days
Bancroft........................  7 25			30 days
Soda Springs.................  8 05			30 days
Montpelier....................   9 60		30 days
Pocatello.......................  7 00			15 days
Blackfoot......................  8 20			30 days
Idaho Falls....................  9 50			30 days
Market Lake................. 10 35		30 days
Duboi[-]....................... 12 05			30 days
Red Rock..................... 15 40			30 days
Spencer (Beaver canyon). 12 90		30 days
Dillon........................... 16 70			30 days
American Falls.............. 8 00			30 days 
Minidoka....................... 9 00			30 days
Shoshone....................... 10 00		30 days
Bellevue........................ 12 75		30 days
Hailey............................ 13 00		30 days
Moun ainhome.............. 14 50		30 days
Nampa........................... 18 25		30 days
Boise Ci y...................... 19 00		30 days
Caldwell........................ 18 50 		30 days
Ontario.......................... 20 00		30 days
Payette........................... 20 25		30 days
Weiser............................ 21 00		30 days
Huntington.................... 22 50		30 days
Baker City, O................ 25 20		30 days
Spokane, Wash............. 36 50		30 days
Portland, Or.................. 36 60		30 days
Pendleton, Or............... 30 25			30 days
	Proportionately low ra'e[-] from points
north and south of Salt Lake. Call at
Oregon Short Line ticket office for par- 
ticulars.

[image of shield shaped Union Pacific logo with The People's Favorite. 
UNION PACIFIC 
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE
Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
   lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
	DEPART.
“The Overland Limited’’ for Chicaga,
  St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
  City, Denver and Park City..........    7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
  Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
  Denver....................................          6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
  above points than any other line.
				ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,’’ from Chi-
  cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
  Denver ahd Park City ....................    3:10 p.m.
"The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
  Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
  City and Denver.......................           3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFF1CE, 201 MAIN ST.
   Telephone No. 665.
   The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair Cars.
			S. H. H. CLARK,
			OLIVER W. MINK,
			E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
			JOHN W. DOANE,
			FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
						    Receivers.
		   E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
		   E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
			H. M. CLAY, General Agent.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS MARY ALLEN THOMPSON is chair-
man of the Press Committee for the wo-
man’s department of the Tennessee Cen-
tennial Exposition at Nashville.
	MISS GRACE E. DODGE of New York,
the founder of working girls’ clubs, is
spending the summer at Bar Harbor. Miss
Dodge is very busy with plans for educa-
tional work.
	FRANCES E. WILLARD writes of Mrs.
Livermore’s autobiography: “It may be
said without exaggeratiou that no woman
in America has lived a more symmetrical or
a more helpful life than Mrs. Mary A.
Livermore.”
	MRS. ELIZA ARCHARD CONNER is a
member of the editorial staff of the
American Press Association. It is said that
her paragraphs about women find a place
in eight thousand papers.
	MRS. ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS
WARD is at her moorland cottage, East
Gloucester, Mass., in better health than
last year, when she was forced to rest from 
her work upon “A Single Life,” which is
called, so far, her masterpiece. She is now
writing another book.
	MADAME SARAH GRAND has published
no book of importance since “The Heav-
enly Twins.” She has spent her time in
work upon a new novel which will be her
most important literary undertaking. Her
new novel traces the development of a wo-
man of genius from her girlhood to her
marriage. It is described as a most subtle
and extraordinary study of a woman’s
psychological evolution.
	MISS ABBIE A. BRADLEY of Hingham,
Mass., has presented $20,000 to the presi-
dent and fellows of Harvard College, in
memory of her father, the late William L.
Bradley, who was much interested in trees
and tree planting. The income of this fund
is to be expended by the directors of the
Arnold Arboretum in scientific investiga-
tion at that institution for increasing the
knowledge of trees.
	THE American College for Girls in Con-
stantinople is likely to accomplish work of
great significance. The college has pupils
from Asia Minor, Greece Macedonia, Bul-
garia, Roumania and Russia. The hos-


tility of the Sultan has of late caused the
withdrawal of the Turkish students, who,
though few in numbers, were counted
among, the brightest girls in attendance,
and the troublous times at Constantinople
have thinned out the girls from a distance,
especially the Bulgarians.		Ex.


TOMATO SOUP.
	1 qt. canned tomatoes put through a
sieve, boil, add salt and pepper. Boil 1 qt.
of milk, add 1 tablespoonful of butter,
thicken with 1 tablespoonful of flour wet
with cold milk. When ready to serve put
one even teaspoonful of soda into the
tomatoes, pour into the milk, and serve at
once.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEP. 15, & OCT. 1, 1897.		No 8-9.


CONTENTS:
	Hawaii—M. A. J. Lambert. U. W. P. C.—
Orielle Curtis, Sec. Banquet to Josephine West.
The Women of America—Emily Ray. R. S. Re-
ports. Ladies’ Semi Monthly Meeting—Zina H.
Bull, Sec. San Francisco Letter—Ida M. Sarll.
Sacramento Letter—Fanny H. Thackham. A
Distinguished French Woman. In Memoriam.
Woman’s Exhibit at Tennessee Centennial.
Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—Responsibility of Women Voters.
Forty Years President.
	POETRY:—Utah Pioneers—Orielle Curtis. The
Query—H. W. Naisbitt.


[Column 1]
UTAH PIONEERS.

IN MEMORY OF THE JUBILEE.
				I
WITH what shall we garland the victor’s head,
When he comes with the spoils of war?
With poppies aflame and with jonquils red,
And cypress that waves o’er the buried dead,
Weave a wreath for the conqueror.
But twine for our heroes, who bravely trod
The deserts for freedom and truth and God,
Our Jasons who captured toil’s golden fleece—
For these—the white-hearted lilies of peace.
				  II.
Green girdled by orchards and corn-wreathed 
	farms,
How their “City of Beauty” smiled!
They whispered farewell to home’s sheltering
	arms;
To welcome gaunt hardship, and dread alarms
From the Indian, fierce and wild —
For glory, men dare the red battle plain;
The miner for gold rends the mountains in twain;
Adventure’s sharp prows cleave the cold, North-
	ern seas;—
But Duty’s white hand waved summons to thee.
				III
In freedom’s strong might, they followed on still
Where pavilions of sunset glowed: 
Faith marked the road over prairie and hill;
Hope waved her wand, and each tear-drop of ill
A rain-bow of promise bestowed.
The “Father of Waters” rolled darkling by,
And turbid Missouri made angry reply;—
But clear came the Voice: “Fear not the deep 
	sea,
For passing through rivers, Lo, I am with thee.”
				IV
Through arid plains tracking their devious way,
Over alkaline regions drear,
The antelope sprang over the dewy spray, 
The lean prairie-wolf snarled o’er his prey, 
Wild buffalo herded near;—
But fearlessly forward the pilgrims stept;—
The golden-eyed stars the night-watches kept,
And light-mantled morning’s celestial ray
The reveille sounded at dawning of day.
				V
They passed through the valley of Baca, and
	hewed
In its depths a life giving well;
Then sang Zion’s songs in wild solitude,
Where Nature’s stone turrets enchanted stood

[Column 2]
’Neath Sublimity’s silent spell. 
Oh fair as highlands of Paradise, seemed
The valley where Jordan’s bright waters
	gleamed,—
Where rolled the Salt Lake its billows along;
ehovah’s great name its perpetual song.
				VI
As maple leaves fall in Autumn’s bright glow,
Gathered back to their parent soil:—
So touched by the frosts that all earth lives know,
In manhood’s full prime, or time’s silvery snow, 
Utah’s pioneers ceased from toil.
They passed from the “City of Saints” to gain 
	The “City of Souls;” a few here remain,
And sweetly, in rich, ripened vintage attest 
Life’s beautiful Indian summer of rest.
				VII.
“They builded their monument loftier far
Than the Pyramid’s royal site,—
More lasting than brass;”—for the victories are,
As oft as returns harvests golden car,
Rewritten in letters of light.
Blest gift of their toil, the desert spring flows;
The wilderness solitudes bloom as the rose;
The grape’s chalice fills with memorial wine,
And flowers, swinging censers, hallow their
	shrine.
				VIII.
’Twas well for us all, with glad jubilee,
To enshrine the memorial year,
With Love’s votive paeans of soft melody, 
To prove Utah’s pioneers never can be
To the hearts of her children less dear.
Sweet music poured forth its proudest refrains,
And banners waved wide over hill-tops and
	plains,—
The resonant note from the organ’s deep throat
Sent swelling afloat, hallelujah strains.
				IX
Bright gardens mingled their choicest display
With the Sego-lily bells fair;
The silk and the gold of great Solomon’s day,
With treasure untold and costly array,  
Could never such vesture prepare. 
The roses unfolded their hearts of perfume;
The passionate glow of the cactus found room,
While crimson and green, and rainbow-dyed
	sheen,
Proved Utah the queen of fragrance and bloom.
With splendor of blossom and richness of grain
With nectar-filled spheres of the vine,—
Such fruitage of farm, and orchard and plain.
Epicurus might charm—Golconda again
Be revived in the ores from the mine—
Diana’s fleet deer, with its silver feet,
And its golden horns left its cast complete
In our Wasatch hills, where full-bosomed rills,
With clangor of mills, the treasure repeat.
Thrice Hail favored state of the golden West!
The all-ruling Ancient of Days.
Who guiding above, gave the pioneers rest,
Whose banner is love, will bless and hath blest—
Still sing to Him anthems of praise! 
God wrought wondrous things for them and for
	thee!—
Tell the proud story o’er mountain and sea,
How the jubilant throng moved to music along.
With triumphant song,—
				Hallelujah! Jubilee!
					ORIELLE CURTIS.


HAWAII.

	HAWAII is a group, or rather a string of
sunny islands of a gentle tropical climate
with Mercury between 75 and 80 the year
round, embosomed midst the placid
waters of the Pacific, 2,100 miles south-
west from San Francisco and nearly the
same distance north from Tahita. An off-
spring of the sea, the result of volcanic
upheavals, their origin verified by extinct
craters fastened here and there amidst the
hills and on the mountain hights of the
group, and by the still blazing fires of that
molten lake—the fiery Kilauea. Of the
ten islands two are little more than barren
rocks, two are used exclusively as cattle
ranges, and the six principal ones are
luxurious in bloom and beauty.
	Their extreme boundaries are about
300 miles apart and their aggregate
area a little more than 6,100 square miles.
This little “land of mystery” meets the
eye of the approaching voyager like a land
of dreams suddenly raised from the misty
waters by the spirits of the deep, or like
the mirage sun bathed and clothed in ver-
dure and peopled with sirens as luring may
be as were the tormentors of the ancient
Ulysses. Veiled in vapors that forever
cling to the lofty brow of the “Pali” an
ideal Paradise that reveals upon approach
a delightful reality. A place of stately
palms, tropical foliage and fern-embowered
by-paths, of gorgeous flowers and luscious
fruits, and a dusky, kind hearted people
whose lives, were it not for exotic influ-
ences, would be almost Edenesque, yet
withal a race that within a century has
dwindled from a healthy, happy nation—
nature’s own children—to a scattering few,
landless and poverty pressed.
	From lonely and sheltered nooks, where
his voice mingles with the murmur of the
lapping waves upon the whitened sand of
his beloved shores, the forgiving and spirit-
less Kauaka chants the “Meles” of his
shadowy past, rich in legendary lore and
peopled with gods and goddesses, divinely
endowed with wonderful powers and sym-
bolized within the sacred doors of their
temples. The traveler and tourist has
been proud to fill his cabinet with rare and
curious relics of the Islander’s mythical
past; relics of legends, reaching back a
thousand years or more; laes, kahilis, idols
and kapa cloth, emblems that have bedeck-
ed the skeleton breast of some long ago
hero chief, and bones and charms that have
gathered the dust of generations in the rock
sepulchers, protected by the rigorous
“tabu.”
	The royal mantle worn by the late King
Kalakaua during his coronation ceremonies
is a wonderful garment rare and beautiful,
composed entirely of small yellow feathers,
only one of which is found under the wing
of a small bird called Mamo. Tens of
thousands of feathers enter into the fabrica-
tion of this royal mantle, but few of which
now remain, emblems of Hawaiian patience,
skill and kingly glory.
	The botanist searching in nooks and


crannies following along picturesque by-
paths, finds a continual unfolding of new
delights. Among other rarities the
shrinking sensitive plant, and a wondrous
variety of delicate ferns. Most of the use-
ful and ornamental growth of the tropics
flourish among the deep foliage of the hills,
some of strong and rugged growth which
may be utilized for canoes and building
materials. The bread fruit, ohiei, guava,
bananna, papaia, mango, tamarind, orange and
other trees are clothed in perpetual green,
with stately palms between them and the
sea, gracefully bending their broad leaves
before the ocean-blown breeze.
	The valuable and fragrant sandal wood
once flourished on the plateaus and hill
slopes but in early commerce with the
whites it became an article of exchange
with the Chinese and to gratify the avarice
of King Kalakaua, to bedeck his royal self
and poi-fed wives with Oriental silks and
velvet, this classic and stately tree was
swept from the islands. A forlorn little
shrub with a faded pink blossom struggling
for existence in some forgotten spot is all
that remains of what was once a source of
Hawaiian wealth and pride. Where the
“lois” of thriving taro and sweet potato
were once the natives care, the cane and
coffee fields bespeak the prosperity of the
progressive “houri.”
	Native products as well as the people bear
evidence of deterioration. Since the advent of
cheap calicoes and shoddy cloth the Kanaka
no more estimates his wealth by his kapa
cloth and mattrasses of beaten bark and
woven rushes. This little archipeligo was
a stranger to the civilized world until the
closing years of the last century and the
race for many years, exchanged no word or
product with the rest of mankind. Their
origin may be traced to the ancient Cushites
of Arabia and their legends repeat the story
of the Jewish Genesis their implements of
industry and war were made of wood, stone
and bone, yet crude as they were, with
them they fought great battles, erected
temples to their gods, and constructed
barges and canoes which they navigated by
the stars. After the custom of the ancient
Israelites they built places of refuge, and
submitted to the decrees of the prophets,
firmly believing in their revelations and
prophecies. The elements were symbolized
by deities, and today after sixty years of
Christian teaching, when their temples are
destroyed and their priesthood dethroned
in a great measure, belief in their gods still
remains. Many of the natives still super-
stitiously throw offerings of fruit etc. into
the lurid depths of the awful, ever restless
caldron of Kilauea, many of them, too,
sicken, grow weak and pale under the con-
viction that one possessing priestly power
is offering prayers and incantations for their
death.
	“Pele,” a deity possessing great powers,
was greatly dreaded and feared. Her abode
was on the island of Hawaii in the lava
caves and fiery crevices of the different
volcanoes, visiting each at her pleasure.
Her anger was easily evoked and she would
cause streams of burning lava to flow from
Her volcanoes upon the lands of such as
neglected to feed her craters with suitable
offerings. Sometimes she would clothe her-
self in the form of a beautiful woman and
seek human association, and many are the
romantic stories of her love affairs and dar-
ing escapades. In 1791 a portion of the
army of Keona near the crater of Kil-

[Column 2]
auea was suffocated and Pele was accredit-
ed with this dreadful piece of work. A
more recent exibition of her powers occured
in 1882 in the village of Hilo, a devastating
stream of lava from Menna Loa had swept
downward twenty-five miles or more and
its line of descent was slowly but steadily
approaching the little town. Much labor
was expended in precautionary efforts and
many fervent prayers were offered, and still
the dreadful avalanche of fire continued
creeping onward and downward. Ruth, a
sister of the late Kamehamehas, was then
living in Honolulu and learning of the
threatened danger, chartered a steamer and
with her retinue left for the terror stricken
Hilo. Upon arriving she declared that
Pele would not refuse to listen to the pray-
ers of a Kemehaha, saying “I will save the
fish ponds of Hilo.” An altar was built
upon an elevation back of the village and
facing the still moving flow of lava. Here
she made her supplications and offerings to
the wrathful goddess. With confidence
and dignity she descended the hill and
returned to Honolulu, and with her depart-
ure the stream of fire ceased in its onward
course and the rough, glistening wall of
black lava stands an evidence of Pele’s
wrath and the faith of the stern, proud,
old chiefess, and though the temples of the
goddess were distroyed many, many years
before, still the natives whisper “’tis the
work of Pali.”
	Moving by way of of the Samoan and
Society Islands a great migratory wave
reached the Hawaiian shores about
the middle of last century. Naumala, a
distinguished chief, was the first to arrive
from the Southern isles. Other chiefs fol-
lowed and for several generations they lived
sequestered lives with no exchange what-
ever with the rest of the world. During
intervals of several hundred years other
migratory tides came sweeping from the
southward, and romantic and political con-
flict give plentiful material for legends of
valor and romance. On December 18th,
1877, Captain Cook, an officer in the Eng-
lish navy, sighted Oahu and upon landing 
was received by the people as a reincarna-
tion of their god Lono. The priests led
him to their temples and accorded him
divine honors. However, petty quarrels
between the sailors and the natives resulted
in more serious trouble, and finally Cap-
tain Cook with four of his men were killed,
but not eaten, as so many are disposed to
believe. It is not true that the Kanaka’s
were ever Cannibals. When the question
was put to them by Captain Cook’s men
they were horrified, and asked in return if
such was the custom among the whites.
There is no existing evidence that they
ever ate human flesh.
	In 1820 the first party of Christian mis-
sionaries arrived at the Islands from Mass-
achusetts, they were well received and
found the work of conversion easy. Other
missionaries followed from time to time,
acquired homes and substantial possessions
and controlled the government, and their
descendants are now among the prosper-
ous and influential of the Islands Church-
es, schools and printing presses have been
established and the native language has
become a written one, a growing business
interest has been developed as the years 
have passed, modern homes have supplant-
ed to a great extent the primitive grass
hut. The steam fire department, the rail-
way, the telephone and the electric ligh

[Column 3]
system all betokens the progress and civil-
ization under whose restraints and sur-
roundings the dark-skinned native is slowly
but surely sinking. The loathsome and
incurable leprosy carried thither by the
Chinese taints their blood, and in their
peaceful conflicts with other forces they
have become a dwindling, thriftless race.
Their footsteps are becoming weaker on the
wave-washed beach, and the echoes of their
weird “meles” and songs of aloho are
growing fainter and fainter among the fern
clad hills. To them and their romantic
past, their legends and sweet, simple music 
we can only say “aloho and aloho nui.”
				M. A. J. LAMBERT.


WOMANS EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.

	MINUTES of the U. W. P. C. held
August 31, 1897. President Fox called
the meeting to order at the usual time.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. E. B. Wells,
roll call answered by sentiments on “Suni-
mer.” Minutes of last meeting read and
approved. Business was first in order:
	Amendments to Art. III, Sec. 3 and By-
laws, Art. 2 of the constitution of the U.
F. W. C. were submitted by letter by the
Woman’s Club and read by the secretary.
A motion was made by Dr. Pratt and
seconded by Dr. Ferguson that the amend-
ment to Art III. Sec 3, as submitted by the
Woman’s. Club be accepted. Discussion of
Dr. Pratt’s motion followed. Intermission
was taken to partake of dainty cake and
nectar from the grape, a pleasant surprise
to the club from Dr. Pratt. After the
intermission Dr. Pratt withdrew her motion
and a motion by Mrs. E. B. Wells, second-
ed by Mrs. Dickinson, was substituted: that
these amendments be laid on the table till
next meeting. Carried.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells called the attention of
the club to lectures by Miss Ackerman at
the Tabernacle and Lyceum.
	Dr. Shipp was appointed critic for the
evening. The program was as follows:
	“The Press of the Present Day,” Dr.
Curtis. This was followed by a discussion
of this topic by the members.
	Dr. Shipp was excused from reading her
poem, Mrs. Hyde and Mrs. Kimball were
not present, and were fined accordingly.
The two papers were to have been “Wo-
man as a Nurse in War,” and “The Work
of Newspaper Women.” A paper on
“Jean Ingelow” by Mrs. Lovsey was sent
and read by Dr. Ferguson. Discussion of
this theme by members. Mrs. Dickinson
moved that a vote of thanks be extended to
Dr. Pratt for her dainty feast. Carried.
	The chair appointed Mrs. Brown, Mrs.
Dickinson and Mrs. Schiller on program
committee for the next two months. Bene-
diction by Mrs. Stephenson and meeting
adjourned for one month. Sentiments for
September from Mrs. Browning.
			ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec.


MISS MARIA LOUISE POOL is one of the
small band of New England women writers
who in the past few years have done so
much strong and original work. Her first
novel “Roweny in Boston," showed skill-
ful handling, and its local coloring made it
a story of unusual interest. Miss Pool was
born in Rockland, Mass.
	THE medical department of the Illinois
State University has decided to open its
doors to women.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE QUERY.

WRERE oh my soul art thou silently drifting?
	Hampered, distressed in the twilight or dark,
When will all circumstance changing and shifting
	Land on a bright shore thy rudderless bark?

Things once heart-cherished no more in posses-
		sion,
	Things once inspiring no more move the soul;
Whence comes the bitter and hated depression,
	Sickness and sadness beyond all control?

Is the day dawning, or cometh the sunlight,
	Once so entrancing as time onward flew?
Is all the future an indistinct twilight,
	Filled with dread shadows of ghosts old and
		new?

Ah! there’s revolt ’gainst so wild a conception,
	God moves the curtain or veileth the sun!
And the tried soul which sees but deception,
	Will find a rich pattern when life’s work is
		done.

Shadow and sun are alike to the Giver!
	His hand in wisdom appointeth the way,
The glory He willeth beyond the dark river,
	Will solve all the mystery shrouding today.

This faith is the beacon when rolleth the thunder,
	When clouds are so dense that man “gropes for
		the wall,”
This lesson unlearned makes life seem a blunder,
	Then cometh the query,—“Is God over all?”
						H. W. NAISBITT


[Column 1]
BANQUET TO JOSEPHINE R. WEST.

	A BEAUTIFUL tribute of love and re-
spect was paid to Sister Josephine West.
president ot the Weber Stake Primary
Association. A surprise banquet was
given her by the presidents and officers of
the Primary Associations of the different
wards in the Stake, to show their apprecia-
tion of her untiring labor for eighteen years.
	The Semi-annual conference of the
Primary Association convened in the Ogden
Tabernacle on Saturday, September 11, at
11 a. m. On the stand were a number of
Salt Lake visitors, who, by their presence,
were aiding in the success of the day. There
were the following members of the General
Board: Louie Felt, president; Lillie
Freeze, counselor; May Anderson, secre-
tary and treasurer; Belle Salmon, aid.
Also Sister Aurelia Rogers, first promoter
of Primary Associations; Sister Emily S.
Richards, one of the directors of the
Orphan’s Home at Salt Lake City; Eliza-
beth Y. Stanford, president of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Weber Stake, recently returned
from Washington, D. C. There were also
on the stand Sister West and one of her
counselors, Rose Canfield; also Sisters
Burton, Herrick and Moench; also Sister
Jane S. Richards, president of the Stake
Relief Society organization, and mother of
Sister West.
	The following brethren were also present:
Apostle Franklin D. Richards; President
L. W. Shurtliff, of Weber Stake, and
Elders Lorin Farr and Richard Ballantyne;
also a number of Bishops and their counsel-
lors.
	The large and beautiful building was
almost filled with little boys and girls in
their holiday attire looking happy and
sweet, a beautiful picture to behold.
	The conference was called to order by
President Josephine West. After singing and
prayer, the time was occupied in songs,
recitations and class exercises, interspersed
with short speeches from the visitors.

[Column 2]
Special mention should be made of Mrs.
Ruthinda Moench for the beautiful poem
composed and read by her for Sister West,
expressive of the loving sentiments of the
association towards her.
	Sister Marion Burton with a neat little
speech presented Sister West with a beauti-
ful gift from the Primary Association, a
heavy set of silver, lined with gold, consist-
ing of bowl and spoon, cream and sugar
bowl. This was a great surprise to Sister
West, and she responded in a brief but feel-
ing manner, expressing her appreciation of
the token of love.
	After singing, benediction was pronounc-
ed by President Middleton and conference
adjourned. The visitors and officers took
up the line of march in the following order:
Apostle Richards and family, Hon. Lorin
Farr and family, Presidents, Bishops and
families.
	Arriving at the banquet hall, the Third
ward Institute, we were greeted with a
beautiful sight, a feast for the eyes and
inner man. Three rows of tables the
length of the hall were filled with the
bounties of the earth, and decorated with
May flowers. While the guests were filing
along into their alloted seats, sweet music
was being discoursed by Misses Cannon
and Houtz and many fair daughters were
fluttering here and there, trying in their
sweet way to make all happy,
	Speeches were again indulged in for
awhile and the crowd began to disperse
with many handshakes and a “God speed
you” to Sister West in her journey.
	Much credit is due Sisters Rose Canfield,
C. C. Richards and their associates for the
success of the entertainment and banquet.
							    Ex.


[Column 1]
THE WOMEN OF AMERICA.

	I THINK it is not strange that we pause
for a moment in this enlightened day to
pay a tender tribute of praise to the silent
suffering hearts that have labored, yearned
and died for the cause of Liberty and the
prosperity of our nation. Labored in silence
and devotion, caring for no other honor
than to be worthy wives and mothers of
our heroes and noble men. Since the
memorable day when the Queen of Castile
offered her jewels to the dreamer of Genoa
to carry him out into the sea of darkness,
into the unknown world, the patient, lov-
ing sacrifices of woman has not only fol-
lowed but led in every movement for the
cause of humanity, and the glory of the
New World. Every student of history
around will remember the beautiful story
of Mrs. Winston giving of her substance to
fit out the “Mayflower” for its question-
able voyage across the wintry ocean. And
you will not forget how Mrs. Carver’s
bravery persuaded her husband, the Rev.
John Carver, the idol of the Pilgrims, to
join their expedition to the New World.
And the sad, sweet story of Rose Standish,
the dainty beauty of the Plymouth com-
pany, the flower and pride of all who knew
her, who died ’mid the vicissitudes of that
dreadful first winter. The name of Priscil-
la Mullins will never be forgotten, and the
less known but equally faithful Ann Brew-
ster, who nursed the sick and starving like
the very guardian angel of the company.
	Indeed the women of those days took no
active part in framing of national politics,
but their tender persuading love of patriotic
zeal led their husbands, sons and lovers to

[Column 2]
the van of battle as woman's love has ever
done since the chivalrous days of bold 
Knight erranty. And when the sons of 
Liberty were forming in the fields of battle
mothers, sisters and wives were laboring
arduously to provide them with food and
clothing to protect them with food and
clothing to protect them from the raw ele-
ments of those New England winters.
The wives of Jefferson and Adams urged
them on in the cause of American Indepen-
dence, as whose wives did not? The sad-
dest picture in the life of Washington is
that when parting to fill the office of Presi-
dent for the last time he said, “I am un-
willing at the close of a life so nearly con-
sumed in public cares to quit this peaceful
abode for an ocean of difficulties.” There
in his beautiful home at Mt. Vernon he
leaned his head upon the shoulder of his
aged mother and wept. “I will see you no
more,” she said, “but go my son, fulfill
your public trust, and may God’s peace and
your mother’s blessings attend you.”
That great, grand heart so terrible in war
could stand it no longer, weeping he
withdrew from her side forever. She the
molder of his character; she the guardian
angel; she the idol of his closing years is
only one bright star in the Empyrean of
America’s noble women.
	Today as we take a furtive glance over
the fields of American history, we are aston-
ished that little over a hundred years ago
the first door was left ajar that women
might enter the portals of a University.
Now nearly every University in the land
proudly admits her to its fountains of
knowledge, and thousands are exclusively
for her. She is emancipated in the body
politic, she is the proud heir of all the love
and honor of the American manhood.
	Recently it is said that Max O’Reil, the
celebrated French wit, made the assertion
that if he could choose his country and his
sex, he would choose to be an American
women. Now that the women of America
have been honored by the immortal author
of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” Harriet Beecher
Stowe, by Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady 
Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and Frances
Willard, with Honora Palmer and Mrs.
Eagle it will be no longer questioned that
the divine slumbering jealousy, for truth
and progress which has so long characteriz-
ed the hearts and lives of America’s noblest
women is capable of kindling into a proud
self-luminous flame to be an honor to her
nation and her home.
	The time has come when idle women as
idle, slothful, untrained men will be, shall
be looked upon with scorn. She must
henceforth be a self-sustaining helpmate to 
her husband, and his elevated, worthy, re-
spectable companion. Let us pledge our-
selves as mothers, sisters and wives in this
most promising nation of the world that we
will unite in the cause of progress and
liberty, that we may not only emulate the
examples of our foremothers but that we
may do our little to immortalize the closing
years of this great century as the golden
age of womanhood.
					EMILY RAY
Fillmore, Utah.


MISS EMMA C. SICKELS has been com-
missioned by Governor Tanner of Illinois,
a delegate to the meeting of the Farmers’
National Congress for 1897 to 1898, to
represent the Domestic Science Association,
of which she is president.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEP. 15, & OCT. 1, 1897


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the large Taber-
nacle in this city, Thursday, October 7,
1897, meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and
at 2. p. m. as usual. It is desirable that
each Stake organization of the Society
should be represented by the President or
an authorized representative. All mem-
bers of the Society and of the Church are
cordially invited, the meetings of the Con-
ference are open to all interested in charita-
ble or philanthropic work.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
					     President.
			JANE S. RICAARDS, 
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH
					    Counselors.


[Column 1]
RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMEN
VOTERS.

	THE women of this city and of the entire
state should constantly remember, and especi-
ally at election time, the responsibility rest-
ing upon them equally with men in regard
to voting, and in regard to selecting suitable
persons to fill any office of emolument or
trust within the gift of the people. In
accepting equal suffrage it was understood
that women also accepted the duties and
obligations as well as the privilege. And it
is certainly expected that a large majority of
women would act conscientiously in all
matters pertaining to the welfare of the
state including its several localities. When
cities and towns are well regulated and
wisely controlled the state is benefited; in
fact government begins first in townships
etc., spreading out into counties and so on;
and if, as is a fact of the Constitution of the
country, we have a government by the peo-
ple and for the people, every individual per-
son of years of accountability should accept
his or her portion of the actual responsibility;
and much more devolves upon those who
have the ballot in their hands.
	Women have in the past, thought men
careless of the great privilege accorded
them and now that it has come to pass that
the women of the Rocky mountain states
have been favored with the franchise, and
equal political privileges, they should see
to it, that they should not fall into the
errors of partisanship or of indifference to
the public weal.
	In this state particularly where so many
women pay taxes, the financial and

[Column 2]
economic welfare should be a consideration,
as well as the moral tone of the community.
Reform in city government is the cry in
many places, and at the present time, we
who live in Salt Lake City, are especially
desirous of seeing a better condition of
affairs, and the laws and ordinances on the
statutes more strictly administered than
they have been of late. If there are seri-
ous grievances and wrongs that reflect upon
the well being and morals of the commun-
ty, then it is possible that radical measures
must be taken in order to set things right.
	The women of this city have great
power for good in their hands at this critical
time, if they will only exercise it wisely,
and this coming election will be a golden
opportunity to make the ballot count on the
side of right, justice and reform.
	Mothers who see and know the great in-
crease in vice of various kinds, should most
seriously take advantage of the time, and
consider what strong measures can be
taken to eradicate the existing evils, and
prevent future spread of wrong-doing that
they may not be answerable for the down-
fall of the innocent and unsuspecting. And
in the matter of voting it should certainly
be the man who is honest, upright and
true as well as capable, instead of the party
to which he belongs; or the woman, should
a woman be nominated who is patriotic
enough (and has the essential welfare of
the city at heart) to stand by the cause of
reform and not be swerved to the right or
left by any specious reasoning of men, who
seek place or power with a view to personal
aggrandizement, or from any other unworthy 
motive.
	As long as there is a wrong to be righted
women should have the courage of their
convictions and stand firm as the everlast-
ing hills for the triumph of right.
	Women have much at stake in this mat-
ter because of the moral sense of obligation
which it is expected they will exercise, and
also that the whole nation is looking on to
see how women who have this precious
boon, the ballot, will carry themselves;
whether they will yield to the dominant
influences that prevail among men, and
become particapants in the political affairs
that pass current as being the proper
thing, or if they will still remain womanly
and motherly, maintaining those principles
that tend to foster and strengthen the best
attributes of mankind.
	Women have not asked for suffrage be-
cause of place or power, or to crowd men
out of the ranks of the wage-earners or pro-
fessions, but that they may be acknowledged
as being an equal in the work and business
of the great world in which all must live
and take part, along all lines that lead to
progress and development in the civiliza-
tion of of mankind in the best sense of these
terms and conditions. This great work
can never be done well by one half of the
human family; it is the opinion of all who
think deeply that men and women must do
the work together, and unitedly.


[Column 1]
FORTY YEARS PRESIDENT.

	SISTER SARAH M. KIMBALL has presid-
ed over the Relief Society in the Fifteenth
ward in this city over forty years. The
anniversary occurred on the 9th of last
February. The occasion was recognized
only on September 16, of this year, as it
was not convenient to celebrate it last
winter.

[Column 2]
	Preparations were made to have it a
unique affair, and about two hundred and
fifty invitations were issued to guests, most
of the number being those who resided
in the ward and had been generous in help-
ing to sustain the Relief Society; other
guests were General and Stake officers of
the Society and of the Church.
	The most noted visitor was a cousin
of Sister Kimball’s Chief Justice Granger of
the State of Iowa, who occupied a seat of
honor and who made an address which was
very commendatory of the labors and efforts
of the Mormon people, and particularly so
of his cousin whom he spoke of in the most
affectionate terms, she being his nearest
living woman relative. The Judge has
taken pains while here to look into matters
from an educational and business stand-
point and has examined our affairs without
prejudice.
	It so happened that the most important
personage, Sister Kimball herself who had
planned the whole affair, was not able to
attend the banquet on the evening it was
given and it was a great disappointment to
all those who had assisted as well as the in-
vited guests.
	The hall was handsomely decorated for
the occasion with flags, banners and beauti-
ful flowers, the tables were loaded with
fruits and delicious viands in great variety,
and the scene was most inviting except for
the absence of the one whom all would
have delighted in honoring. Bishop R. T.
Burton was also detained at home and Sis-
ter Zina D. H. Young and her counselors.
	Rodney T. Badger who had been selected
as toastmaster (and who, by the way, did
himself and the company great credit as
well as the President) took charge in the
absence of Sister Kimball, and when the
guests were seated Bishop Elias Morris pro-
nounced the blessing.
	A communication in writing from Sister
Kimball expressing her regret at not being
able to attend and giving some few ideas of
her continuous work in the ward, modestly
expressed, and alluding to the many
changes etc., was read by Brother Thomas
Hull and was deeply appreciated by the
company. In recognition Elder C. W.
Penrose moved that a committee wait upon
Sister Kimball and convey to her the love
and esteem of the assembly, and congratu-
lations upon the success of her many
labors and long service in the field of wo-
man’s work, in not only philanthropic but
many other directions in the Church and in
the State. Bishop Morris appointed Thomas
Hull, Nephi Morris and Sister E. B. Wells.
During the absence of the committee Elders
Jos. E. Taylor and C. W Penrose addressed
the assembly. In the early part of the
evening Bishop Morris, Sisters M. I. Horne
E. B. Wells and Judge Granger were called
upon. Sisters Horne and Wells spoke
specially upon the Relief Society, its labors
and results. A song by Mrs. Maggie
Hull was delightfully rendered and the
lady warmly applauded. After the com-
mittee returned a brief report was made by
Sister E. B. Wells and accepted by the
Bishop and the guests, and after some other
appropriate remarks to those who had aided
etc., the guests rose and sang “Praise God
from whom all blessings flow,” and Coun-
selor Joseph Morgan closed with prayer.


THE Countess of Aberdeen will contri-
bute an article on ‘‘Woman’s Place and
Work in Canada,” to a new encyclopedia
of Canada, edited by J. Cantell Hopkins.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	THE quarterly conference of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society was held in the
Assembly Hall, Sept. 18, 1897, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne presiding. On the stand
were her counselors, A. T. Hyde, and C. C.
Cannon, also Z. D. H. Young, B.W. Smith,
J. C. Howe, E. Stevenson, Rachel Grant,
E. S. Taylor and E. Webb.
	Opened by singing “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.” Prayer by Sister
Paul. Singing “Guide us O Thou great
Jehovah.” Statistical and financial re-
ports were read and adopted.
	Sister Horne gave instructions to the
secretaries in regard to keeping proper
accounts, and said this was an important
organization for the sisters of the Latter-
day Saints. The officers should be diligent
and if they cannot represent their wards
they should see that some one does. The
Prophet had promised that great power
should be given the women; they should
have power to teach and expound the
Scriptures, that by coming together we
get the bread of life. The speaker said she
would like the sisters to keep up their testi-
mony meetings and look after the poor and
infirm, and not the strong as they could
take care of themselves.
	President B. Young said it was the duty
of the sisters to build halls and granaries,
and store up wheat for a time of need.
She had visited some of the country wards
and was pleased to see they were doing
their duty and were energetic in storing
wheat. Had visited the Sanpete confer-
ence at Gunnison and found it well attend-
ed and doing a good work; was pleased
with the good reports that were given of
this Stake. Closed by singing Doxology.
Benediction by Sister Julia Druce.
	AFTERNOON SESSION.—Opened by sing-
ing “O ye mountains high.” Prayer by
Sister. Rachel Grant. Singing “We thank
Thee O God for a Prophet.”
	Sister Horne stated that Mrs. Ella W.
Hyde had sent in her resignation as assist-
ant secretary, which was accepted and a
vote of thanks given for her past services.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said she was
grateful that she could come here and feel
the Spirit of God; felt we were in the
Kingdom of God and associated with those
who had made great sacrifices. We had
left everything to look upon the face of the
Prophet, and how we had been blessed by
obedience to the Gospel. She was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society when the Pro-
phet Joseph spoke to the sisters. Said it
gave her joy to meet with the sisters and
to know they were striving to live near the
Father.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of the good
reports; and the teachings she had received
from Prophets, Elders and others; the Gos-
pel was being taught to every nation,
tongue and people.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde said we did not
appreciate the Relief Society as we should.
It was a school and we should encourage
faith, and above all get the Spirit of the
Lord.
	E. S. Taylor, general president of the
Y. L. M. I. A. said she was heart and
soul with the work. Spoke of the many
faithful workers in Zion and the good results
of the Relief Society.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon said it was a
great privilege to belong to the Relief
Society and urged the presidents of the

[Column 2]
Society to read the Church works, and ap-
point some one to discuss them.
	Sister Horne in her closing remarks gave
instructions in regard to the reports being
sent in by Feb. 1. Conference adjourned
for three months. Singing “The Spirit of
God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
by Sister E. Webb.
				M. V. TAYLOR.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday, September 4th, 1897, President
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “Oh say
what is truth.” Prayer by Sister Margaret
P. Young. Singing “Welcome best of all
good meetings.” The minutes of the pre-
vious meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne felt very much grati-
fied at seeing so many present, and express-
ed her desire that we might have a pleasant
meeting. She said the Spirit went from
heart to heart, and that she loved to hear
the testimonies of her sisters, said the Lord
had said those who bore testimony of Him,
He would bear testimony of them. Felt
all were blessed who did this, and said
Satan tried to make us believe that we
could not bear our testimony and gave us
those frightened feelings that kept us from
doing so.
	Sister Frances Smith and Elizabeth Paul
bore strong testimonies.
	Sister Pixton said she felt well and bore a
strong testimony. Thought that our
hymns were really inspired by God and felt
they were sermons in themselves. Said
there was nothing to be more desired than
the Spirit of God, it was this that cheered
the Saints on their long and lonely journey.
Exhorted the sisters to be humble and put
their trust in God.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and felt she wanted to do all the
good she could. She knew we all had to
work out our own salvation.
	Sister Margaret P. Young was glad that
she was one who embraced the Gospel in
her youth, and felt grateful for what she
had passed through. Asked God to bless
us all.
	Sister Raleigh spoke of the goodness of
God to her and hoped she would be able to
do all things that were required of her.
	A sister bore her testimony to the heal-
ing of her little son and knew it came from
the Lord.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball spoke of visiting
at Sister Pixton’s house and the prayer that
she offered before sitting down to the table.
Was very much pleased with the testimon-
ies of the sisters, particularly of the sister
who spoke of the healing of her little son,
and said we should live near enough to
God that He would hear us and whisper to
us what to do in time of sickness. Spoke
strongly on faith and said this is what we
should cultivate. She knew we were a
blest as well as a chosen people.
	Sister Isabella Workman testified to the
goodness of God to her and said each morn-
ing she asked Him to give her strength for
that day.
	Sister Mary L. Morris said she had been
quite sick and in a great deal of pain, and
she knelt down and asked the Lord what
she should do that she might be made well.
After she arose she heard her son come in
and she asked him to administer to her
which he did, and with the use of conse-

[Column 2]
crated oil she was healed, for which she
felt to praise and thank God.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she felt we
were blessed in having the dearly loved sis-
ters with us who knew and worked with
the Prophet Joseph. Urged the sisters to
do Temple work, she did not know what
she should do if she could not go there, even
if it were only once a month. Felt this
coming election we should make a subject
of prayer which way to vote, as much as
anything else. Prayed that we might ever
be guided by the Holy Spirit.
	President Horne gave out the notice that
two weeks from now was the quarterly con-
ference. Said many times she had felt the
prayers of her sisters, especially the other
day when she had rather over-done by
taking a long drive to attend a conference;
the next day she was entirely prostrated
and she had another important meeting to
attend, but she prayed to the Lord to help
her, that it was His work that she was en-
gaged in, and would He not help her? She
said she laid down for a little while and
went to sleep, and when she awoke she
was greatly refreshed and felt better than
she had for some time. Felt this was
pretty well for one who was 79 years old.
Felt grateful to the Lord for these bless-
ings and prayed His choicest blessings
might be upon us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Counselor
E. Webb.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.


SAN FRANCISCO LETTER.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Feeling sure the sisters in Zion would
be pleased to hear something of the mission
work in California, I shall first tell of the
Relief Society organized by President E.
H. Nye, June 3, 1897, at 508 Fulton St.,
San Francisco.
	Sister W. A. Rattenbery was appointed
President; Isabella Y. Sewell First Counselor;
Harriet Simpkins, Second Counselor; Chir-
cazade Woodward, treasurer; Ida. M. Sarll,
secretary and teacher. There are about
twenty-eight members in all, and a more
earnest, loving band of sisters could not be
found on this beautiful earth. Each one is
striving to help the other in her work. 
	We meet each Thursday of the week, the
regular business part of the meeting is first
attended to, then the remainder of the after-
noon is turned into a sewing bee. The
meeting is held in the parlors of the mission
house, 915 Golden Gate Ave. I should say
mission home, for home it is to all the
Elders, with Sister Nye as mother and
friend to all who come. Her “boys” as she
loves to call them, are never turned away to
seek food or lodging elsewhere. Now to
return to the Relief Society work. Much
good is being done, several quilts have
been made, besides the mending being done
each week for the Elders.
	It has been a new and novel sight to 
some of our visiting sisters from Utah, to
see the Elders bringing in their mending to
be done. One with a bundle of socks,
another a coat minus several buttons, etc.
During our sewing hours we have had
many visitors from Utah, among those of
recent date being Sister Foster and daugh-
ter Laura, Ida Fames of Salt Lake City;
Sister Harriet Hoution of Logan; Lucy
Hoveing, Misses Owen, and Williamson of
Wellsville.


[Column 1]
	We have been much encouraged by the
visits of these sisters, and they in turn have
expressed themselves as having much en-
joyed meeting with us here, and helping
in the mission field.
	August 6th being President Nye’s birth-
day, Sister Rattenbery, president of the
Relief Society, and her co-laborers gave
him a surprise party. He with the Elders
having gone to hold a street meeting,
which they are accustomed to do, when he
was sent for to see some Utah friends at
his home, which had been beautifully dec-
orated with lovely flowers, gifts of friends.
In the meantime the Saints had gathered
at the house awaiting his return in the
darkened parlors. As he entered the room
the gas was turned on, and all arose and
sang “Now let us rejoice in the day of sal-
vation.”
	President Nye was then reminded of his
natal day by a “Birthday Greeting” com-
posed and delivered by Sister Rattenbery.
	Elder Parkinson then presented him with
a silver headed cane with his name delicate-
ly engraved thereon, which was given by
the Elders in the mission.
	President Nye then gave a short history
of his life. Sister Talmage of Salt Lake
rendered a vocal solo, Miss Gertrude Ash-
ly of Ogden gave a recitation, and several
other members of the branch contributed to
the evening’s entertainment with music
and recitations.
	A fine collation was partaken of and a
delightful social time was spent. Bene-
diction by Brother Loveless. All who
were present felt that they had cause to re-
joice in being there.
	The Woman’s Exponent is gladly re-
ceived here and read with interest in Cali-
fornia.
					IDA M. SARLL,
	Secretary of Relief Society of San Fran-
cisco, 915 Golden Gate Ave.

SACRAMENTO LETTER.
Dear Sister:
	YOUR dear, kind and helpful letter receiv-
ed and I take pleasure in replying the best
can under my present circumstances. I
feel I cannot do you the justice you deserve,
but I deemed it necessary to give you the
report you desired, and as far as we could
we have done so. Our last meeting was a
good one. We always meet the first
Tuesday after Fast Sunday. There were
six present at our last meeting and I was
so glad for I need the sisters to help and
strengthen me. I feel so weak as presi-
dent, as I have never had any kind of ex-
perience in any organization; but we are
doing the best we can and hope to see the
Society grow and prosper. The six mem-
bers are always present, some are ill often
and can attend but seldom, while others
never attend any meeting, but I think this
may be the case everywhere. Then for
our encouragement we have several investi-
gating who seem so true, honest and near
the kingdom, I feel sure we shall have a
strong Society in the near future.
	Our dear sister, Mary Christenson, is a
Saint in very deed. She is at present very
ill, the day before the Society met last she
went and called upon all the sick and aged
and over did herself and was taken ill that
night. She is almost seventy years of age,
and so bright and ambitious I do not know
what I should do without her counsel and
assistance. We missed her much at our

[Column 2]
meeting, and desire to give her especial
mention. Please insert this in the report
f you will, she actually does more for the
branch than she is able, and outshines
us younger ones in ambition.
	Dear sister you say you would love to
hear some of my experiences. I will say
I should enjoy telling you and will some
other time, God willing, but it would take
too much time now as every moment of my
time belongs to others. Yet I will say I
feel as one of the favored women of the
Father, I saw one of the Nephites and
learned the Gospel twenty years ago, but
did not understand it. I was professing
the Methodist faith at that time. Four
years ago I had a vision of a temple and
angels and was told things that made me
dissatisfied with my Church, which had
changed to the Baptist. I sought every-
where for the true church, and religion for
ten years, and when I became weak and
exhausted and still more dissatisfied and
almost discouraged, I went in secret prayer
and plead with my Heavenly Father. I
could not find Him among the churches as
satisfying to my soul. Elder Joseph
Shepherd of Paris, Idaho, came that day,
and when I heard him I understood the
Nephite and my vision, and for two years
I have had bliss complete, trials without
number, heavy burdens, but like Paul I
thank God heartily for them, for it brings 
me nearer to the Saints and Zion.
	Much sickness has been in my family for
years, and all was summed up in one hor- 
ror a month ago. I have had a tumor in
my breast for some time and for months it
has been very painful. The doctors told
me to have it taken off in haste, make no
delay, and were planning to do so; but I
remembered God says in His word: “I
have delivered thee out of six troubles and
I will bring thee out of the seventh,” and I
fasted and prayed, and the dear Elders
administered to me and it went away
immediately. Praise be to His holy name!
I feel like giving glory to such a Father,
that would rather give his children “bread
than a stone.”
	Sister Lydia Phelps of Salt Lake, former-
ly of this city, aged seventy-one, has just
come to visit me and I am so glad to see
and welcome her. She is the daughter of
William Brewster, and her husband was
William Waterman Phelps, his father W.
W. Phelps, wrote many of our beautiful
hymns. She has just read your letter to
me, and she says, “Give them my love
and say how I would love to be there.”
	Now dear sister this is not as I would
like to have written, and as I said before I
would have given you an account in full if
time permitted. I am also a busy woman,
going continually among the sick and weak,
for it gives me strength to bear others
burdens; the Savior bears mine. “I cast
my cares upon Him, for He careth for me.”
I send love to Sister Zina Young and the
Relief Society. 
	Your sister in the Gospel, with love
			FANNY H. THACKHAM.
MINUTES OF MEETING.
	Minutes of the Sacramento Relief Soci-
ety held at Sister Thackham’s, September 7,
1897, President Thackham presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “We thank
Thee O God for a prophet.” Prayer was
offered by President Thackham. Singing
“O ye mountains high.” Enrolled on
books eleven, present six. Minutes of pre-

[Column 3]
vious meeting read and approved as cor-
rected.
	Sister Smither remarked that she was
pleased with the work of the Relief Soci-
ety and thought there was much good for
us to do. She hoped the Society would
progress, and still continue to do good.
	Sister Ella Smith remarked that she
thought the Society was very good, and
hoped it would continue.
	Sister Iwa Adams remarked that the Re-
lief Society was a necessity to the Church,
that to be good Christians we must have
charity and help the members that are in
need in any way we can.
	Sister May Sarll hoped the Society Would
continue and be the means cf doing much
good.
	President Thackham was glad to hear
the expressions of the sisters, and to see
the interest that they took in the Society.
She believed Joseph Smith had said,
“Every virtuous woman should belong to
the Relief Society.” She was pleased to
see so many present and she felt strength-
ened to hear the testimonies of the sisters,
and advised all to call on the sisters who
were unable to attend, to encourage and
comfort them as much as possible. She
felt strengthened by the encouragment
given her by the interest the members
showed, and she thanked God for the help
and aid of her Counselors.
	While sewing on the quilt the members
had a very pleasant time in conversing on
the good of the Society. After, singing
“Do what is right” the meeting was
closed with prayer by Sister Smith.
				MAY SARLL, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A DISTINGUISHED FRENCH WO-
MAN.
	IN the year 1890, at the time of the
Johnstown flood, she took an active part in
rendering assistance to the sufferers, be-
lieving it to be her duty as a representative
of the Red Cross Society to which she had
sworn allegiance. Her efforts at this time
were greatly appreciated and a vote of
thanks was extended to her by the execu-
tive committee of the society.
	It is well, I think, to say right here
something of the objects and aims of this
society of which there is not half enough
known for the general enlightenment of the
people: The society was organized for the
relief of suffering by war, pestilence, fam-
ine, flood, fire or other calamities of suffici-
ent magnitude to be deemed national in ex-
tent. This society is subject to the call of
the national committee, the national presi-
dent of the society in America being Clara
Barton of Washington, D. C., whose fame
is widely known in the G. A. R., and
much good has been done by her in the
Red Cross Society in America.
	To return to our subject. In the year
1891 after remaining in Philadelphia three
years, her hand was sought in marriage by
H. V. Cleophas, one of the first settlers of
Big Piney, Wyo., who was an old friend of
her girlhood days in her happy home in
sunny France. The marriage ceremony
was performed in Philadelphia, after which
Mr. and Mrs. Cleophas started for their
western home, taking with them the many
blessings and good wishes showered upon
them by their faithful and loving friends in
the Quaker City. They experienced no
little difficulty in reaching their journey’s
end, being obliged to travel nine days over


[Column 1]
land, through snow-covered mountain
roads and finally, after many hardships,
their home was reached. Mrs. Cleophas
has a beautiful home situated within 80
miles of the Yellowstone Park. The scen-
ery is picturesque and magnificent. “Cot-
ton wood Ranch” is an immense property,
woodland abounds, majestic trees spread
their giant limbs and sheltering leaves about
the Cottonwood creek and the Green river
that merrily flows in zigzag course all over
the vast domain. There is a beautiful
island covered with cottonwood trees and
luxuriant grass; all this is surrounded by
mountains, a gigantic belt of stone. 
	Within her home everything is elegantly
and artistically arranged. She has a
library of upwards of 300 books, contained
within a carved oak case, which has been
in the family de Horn since the time of
Louis IV, and was the property of the
great Buffon. Mrs. Cleophas is a very
busy woman, conducting a very extensive
correspondence and attending to the entire
care of the household without help, writing
for several papers published in France,
where she is well known as a literary wo-
man, writing under the nom de plume
“Michel Andre,” and sending out her
words of cheer to many here in America.
She is first of all concerned in the happi-
ness of her husband and her home, con-
fident that whatever else of her
time and herself she has to give belongs to
humanity, to the service of her fellowmen
and women, and in the fulfillment of the
best service she can give, her life is spent.
	Among the opportunities coming to her
in her new home, was the possibility of
opening a postoffice at her home, thereby
benefiting the community. Heretofore she
had experienced much trouble with the in-
adequate mail services or facilities of her
isolated residence and a 16 mile drive each
week to reach the postoffice seemed un-
necessary, providing a postoffice could be
established nearer. A year ago Mrs.
Cleophas applied for a postoffice and re-
ceived a most courteous reply from the
government officials at Washington, D. C.,
they understanding the applicant to be a
woman of large attainment and great
earnestness of purpose, and recognizing
her executive ability, appointed her as
assistant to H. V. Cleophas, who was
appointed postmaster, the office to be named
Cleo, which is an abbreviation of Cleophas.
Just to show the indomitable will and
courage of Mrs. Cleophas, and to show her
true worth as a noble woman, I will speak
of one of her trials. At the time that she
applied for the postoffice, the postmaster at
Big Piney, where she had been accustomed
it send for' her weekly mail at such a dis-
tance, for reasons not known, waged war
against her, sending letters to Washington,
D. C., to post office officials there, calling
her “stupid and ignorant,” said that “the
postoffice would not pay and was not need-
ed, and that she lacked ability to run it.”
All this and more was said by the man who
had never met Mrs. Cleophas, and owing
to his interference, notwithstanding the
fact that Mr. Cleophas was appointed post-
master in August and received all material
and everything to open the office with on
the 3rd day of October, the Cleo post office
was not opened for business until the 7th
day of February. During many months
and up to the present time Mr. and Mrs.
Cleophas have been sorely tried and perse-
cuted beyond endurance, until at last Mrs.

[Column 2]
Cleophas has placed herself under the pro-
tection of the government officials, who
were very glad to serve her. Her’s is a
life calculated to inspire great respect and
she has shown remarkable tact and good-
ness of heart in her generous treatment of
one who sought to injure her, and it would
seem that when the true facts of the case
are known, and there are good and brave
men in Wyoming who will not allow such
insults to pass unnoticed, and it would
seem that the people of Wyoming could do
no better than to sustain and support Mrs.
Cleophas in her undertakings, and help her
to promote the welfare of the state and
county where she lives. It is her aim to
elevate and purify the atmosphere and
social status of the place where she lives,
and if by doing good she inspires the enmity
of those who seek to retard the growth of
the settlement of the place, and if these
people who have never met her continue to
make her life among them a continual war-
fare, then it is high time that the good
citizens arouse themselves and come to her
aid, otherwise there will be a blot upon the
reputation of the citizens who are sworn to
honor the rights of women. Good, true
women are needed in every community and
are a blessing wherever found, and Mrs.
Cleophas is truth itself, a progressive wo-
man, self-reliant and a chaste and noble
character, before whom every true man
would do homage.
	Mrs. Eugenie Cleophas is 42 years old.
Her carriage is stately, yet gracious. Her
manners are a combination of extreme
dignity and exceeding meekness, without a
trace of self consciousness or egotism. She
possesses the rare faculty of adapting her-
self to all classes of people, and hence
makes many friends and retains their affec-
tion. Piling high above her forehead is a
waving mass of soft, silken white hair,
which brings out the beauty of her dark
blue eyes, their tenderness reflecting the
beautiful soul within. Her complexion has
the natural freshness of a girl’s and her
smiling lips complete an ideal picture. She
exercises a beneficial influence upon all
with whom she comes in contact. She is
an accomplished musician, a woman of
beautiful character and magnetic person-
ality. She is prominently identified with
many societies, and is adored by many
people in France and all over the United
States. All through her present troubles
her womanly modesty asserted itself and
she would not give publicity to the in-
famous treatment she has received, she
sought for peace rather than bring herself
before the public gaze. But at last her
friend's who know of her trials must rally
to her assistance without delay, when a
man who calls himself a patriot and a
soldier, treats with disrespect a woman of
the Red Cross Society, before which every
soldier kneels in recognition of the great
work performed by them, it is time that
the public at large are informed of it.
Brave men and true soldiers do not wage
war against women, and it must seem
strange to our sister, accustomed all her
life to the society of true men and women,
to be insulted now for doing all in her
power to improve the condition of those
around her. One instance worthy of note
which will, I think, prove the assertion
herein made relative to her prominence in
the Red Cross Society, occured while she
was filling the position of professor of
languages at Philadelphia in 1889. The

[Column 3]
French warship, the Arethuse, came from
France, and while in port at Philadelphia
gave a brilliant reception. Mrs. Cleophas,
then Mme. Block Halbout de Horn, was
honored by a special invitation from
Admiral Brown de Colstown to attend the
entertainment given on the bridge of the
ship, as a representative of the French
branch of the Red Cross Society. She
attended and was accorded every honor at
the command of French officers and sailors
aboard the Arethuse. Mrs. Cleophas has
been actively engaged in hospital work,
having been a member of the society called
Les Dames du Calvaire, a private order
founded by a rich widow, and with only
widows in the order, their work being
much the same as that of the Sisters of
Charity. Having a hospital of their own
wherein only cancer cases are received; and
amid all the sufferings of said hospital this
woman, with the character of an angel, has
sought to alleviate the painful suffering of
many who were stricken down with an in-
curable disease.
	Space will not permit me to relate half
that could be said of the good deeds per-
formed by this true-hearted woman.
	I am personally acquainted with Mrs.
Cleophas and know her to be all that a true
woman can be.				Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

		AMELIA READ BAILEY.
	Amelia Read Bailey, the daughter of William
and Sarah Read, was born at North Crawlen,
Buckingshire, England, October 2, 1813. She
was married to Henry Bailey June 20, 1833 and
died at Ogden, Utah, September 10, 1896.
	She was the mother of ten children, five girls
and five boys, had forty-two grandchildren and,
four great grandchildren.
	Sister Bailey became a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, among the
first after the work was commenced in England,
and Father and Mother Bailey, as they were
familiarly known, kept an open house to the
Elders from 1840 until 1877. at which time they
gathered with the Saints in Zion, and after hav-
ing resided in several parts of Utah finally settled
in Ogden as their future home.
	The funeral services over the remains of 
Grandma Bailey were held in the Second ward
meeting house under the direction of Bishop
Robert McQuarrie. The speakers were Elder
Thomas Hull of Salt Lake City, and Elders
Charles Welch and Joseph Hall. Bishop Mc-
Quarrie offering closing remarks. All spoke
earnestly and energetically of the character and
life of Sister Bailey, who died as she had always
lived, a devoted wife, a fond and loving mother
and a true Latter-day Saint.
	A large crowd of people assembled to pay
their last tribute of respect to their departed sis-
ter, and after the impressive ceremonies a large
cortege followed the remains to its last resting
place, to await the resurrection of the just.
							COM.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	ROSINA MARION CARTER DUBOIS, the beloved
wife of Leo G. Dubois anddaughterof Wm.F. and
Elizabeth Howard Carter, born in Santaquin,
June 10, 1870, died July 9, 1897, aged 27 years
29 days. She was a beloved and efficient help to
her widowed mother, who always kept her by
her side from her birth until she departed this
life.
	She was born and raised in the Church and died
as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
Though her days were not many upon the earth
they were well spent. As a daughter and wife
she was loving, persevering and kind, and would
often say to her aged mother "Mother you rest
and let me work.”
	She was a faithful member in the Relief Soci-
ety, and was always punctual in attending to her
duties. Her departure was sudden, being sick
but a few days, when her pure spirit returned to
the Father who ave it.


Our sister does not need our tears,
	She seems to say to all
“Be up and doing death may come,
	Be ready for his call."

We bow to God our Father’s will,
	And humbly ask that He
Shall comfort all the mourning friends
	That they His hand may see.

	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in
His alwise Providence to call from our midst by
the hand of death our much respected sister,
Rosina Marion Carter Dubois, therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That we the members of the Re-
lief Society of Santaquin do sympathize with the
bereaved husband, mother, brothers and sister,
and relatives in the loss of a kind and affectionate
daughter.
	RESOLED, That we cherish her memory and re-
gard her virtue as ever worthy in her energy and
perseverence to the canse of truth
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed
upon the records of the Relief Society, also that
a copy be presented to the bereaved husband and
mother. Also the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
ELIZABETH WALL.
HANNAH KIRKMAN,
NETTIE TIETJEN,
Committee


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXHIBIT AT TENNESSEE
CENTENNIAL.

	THE rude pioneers cabin at the Tenn-
essee Centennial is a one-story hut of un-
hewn logs, about twenty feet square, roofed
with split poplars and having a huge
chimney of sticks and clay. Its rough floor
is of earth, and its walls unceiled. It has
one unglazed window. A hand loom and a
spinning wheel, which were actually touch-
ed by tired hands long since dead; a wide
fireplace, where the simple meals were
cooked; a rude bed and chairs, all tell of
what the pioneer women endured and
wrought.
	Near the old cabin is the Woman’s Build
ing, the decoration of which is not artists
alone, but collectors, dealers in antiques,
tapestries, armor, importers of stamped
leather, carved furniture, Oriental goods
and pottery, designers and manufacturers
of stained glass, ecclesiastical decorations
and furnishings, embroideries and illumin-
ations, mosaic workers and others have
contributed. The old Dutch chairs and
table and brasses, pottery, armor and cab-
inet transport the beholder into mediæval
times.
	The library is of Flemish oak; its shelves
are crowded with choice volumes from the
pens of women alone; its cabinets hold
treasures of art, jewels, bric-a-brac and his-
toric relics. The Colonial sitting room is
quaint, and the Colonial bedroom has
mahogany furnishings and silver sconces.
The New York room has yellow silk hang-
ings, twany burlaps, and light wood finish-
ings. Carved Venetian chairs and tables,
Empire, Colonial and Vernis Martin cabi-
nets, filled with porcelains and bric-a-brac,
are there, and antique Italian oil jars and
beautiful pictures. Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. PHŒBE HEARST of San Francisco
has given the Mother’s Club of Aberdeen,
S. D., $100. Mrs. Hearst supports twelve
free kindergarten schools in the country.
	A NEW club has been organized in New
Orleans, Mrs. H. L Behrens, president. It
is called the Lillian Whiting Club, for the
well-known Boston Journalist, whose letters


have been a literary feature of the New
Orleans Sunday Times-Democrat for many
years.


[Column 1]
Mrs Kate Bridewell Anderson,
	Formerly of New Orleans and re-
cently of Ogden, has opened a vocal
studio in Unity Hall, 28 W. Third
South. Operatic repertoire a special-
ty. Hours from 10 until 2 p.m., ex-
cept Wednesdays and Saturdays.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

CONFERENCE RATES

Via the Or[-]gon Short Line.
	To Salt Lake City and return, as fol-
low[-]:

From.		Rate.
Huntington
	(Or[-]............ $[-]3 30
	Idaho—
Weiser.......... 22 15
Payet[-]e........... 21 45
Ontario (Or)... 21.25
	Idaho—
Caldwell......... 19.70
Boise............. 20.[-]5
Meridian....... 19.75
Nampa.......... 19.25
Orchard......... 17.60
Moun'n Home 16 50
Gle[-]n's Ferry. 15.00
Blis[-]............... 13.85
Shoshone...... 12.40
Ketchum........ 15.90
Halley........... 15.75
Bellevue......... 15.05
Kimama......... 10.80
Minidoka...... 8 50
Amer'n Falls. 8 00
Spencer.......... 12 00
Duboi............ 11.00
Marke Lake. 9.00
Idaho Fa[-]ls.... 8.50
Blackfoot...... 7.40
Ross Fork...... 7.25
Pocatello....... 7.00
McCammon... 5.7[-]
Downey........ 5.00
Oxford............ 4.25
	Stateline—
Cannon......... 4.00
Preston......... 4.25
Franklin........ 4.[-]5
	Utah—
Richmond...... 4.25
Smithfield...... 4.10
Logan.......... 3.80
Mendon......... 3 55
Cache Junct'n 3.25
Collinston...... 2.75
Dewey............ 2.50
Honeyville..... 2.25
Brigham......... 2 00
Willard.......... 1.75
Hot Springs... 1.50
Harrisville...... 1 50
	Wyoming—
Granger......... 9.60
Opal............... 9.60
Diamondville. 9.50
Ham's Fork... 9.25
Fossil............ 9.00

Cokeville........ $8.75
	Idaho—
Mon pelier.... 7.75
Soda Springs.. 7.00
B[-]ncroft......... 7.00
	Utah—
Ogden............ 1.50
Hooper......... 1.20
Syraccuse Junc 1.10
La[-]ton............ 75
K[-]y[-]ville...... 60
Farmington... 50
Centerville..... 35
Woods Cross. 25
Murray......... 25
Junction...... 35
Sandy............ 50
Draper........... 70
Lehi Junc...... 1.20
Lehi............... 1.25
Amer'n Fork.. 1.35
Pleas'n Grove 1.50
Lake View... 1.70
Provo............ 1.90
Springville.... 2.10
Spanish Fork. 2.25
Benjamin...... 2.25
Payson........... 2.35
Santaquin..... 2.35
Mona............ 2.50
Nephi............ 3.00
Juab............... 3.25
Leamington... 3.90
Oasis............ 4.50
Clear Lake...... 4.75
Black Rock... 5.50
Smith's Ranch 6.00
Milford......... 6.00
Fri co............ 6.70
Eureka......... 3.25
I[--]nton......... 3.25
Silver City... 3.25
Mammoth...... 3.25
Dorem[-]s....... 3.00
Rush Valley... 2.50
Fairfield......... 2.25
Cedar Fort..... 1.95
Ter[---]...... 1 50
Tooele............ 1.25
Erda............. 1.10
Halfw'y House .95
Lake Poin..... .80
Garfield......... .75
Sal[-]air Junc. .60
Chambers....... .50

SELLING DATES AND LIMIT.
	From Ogden, Nephi, Terminu[-]. Eure-
ka and all intermediate points, October
2nd to 6th, inclusive, limit October 12 h.
From Harrisville, Cannon and intermedi-
ate points, October 2nd [-]o 6th, inclu-
sive, limit October 15 h. From all other
stations, Oc[-]ober 2nd to 5th, inclusive,
limit October 15, 1897.
	For special trian service see bills.

[Column 2]
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, October
11, 1897. Reduction in tuition to ladies
from any branch of the Relief Society.
For further information address Dr.
Margaret G. Roberts, 437 East Second So.
Tel. 236 rings, short-long-short.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP'S SCHOOL.
	The Winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP'S School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ties for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address ELLIS R. SHIPP.

[Emblematic shield reading with the following printed on it]
UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE
WORLD'S PiCTORIAL LINE

[printed to the right of the shield]
The
People's
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt. L[-]ke City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited’’ for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City. Denver and Park City......... 7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail," for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver........................... 6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,’’ from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City.......... 3:10 p.m.
"The Fast Mail,” f[-]om Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver.................... 0 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telepho[-]e No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Libra[-]y, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
S. H. H. CLARK,
OLIVER W. MINK,
E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
JOHN W. DOANE,
FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
Receivers.
E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
H. M. CLAY, Gene[-]al Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1897.	NO 10.


CONTENTS:
	National Council. Madame M[-]untford. Politic-
al Science Study. A Ringing Address. Ladies’
Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina H. Bull Sec. U.
W. P. C.—Orielle Curtis Sec. R. S. and P. A.
Reports. Notes and News. Utah Charity Kinder-
garten.
	EDITORIAL:—Municipal Affairs Miss Be[-]l
Kearney. Birthday Entertainment
	POETRY:—The Woman Preacher—Ellis R[-]
Shipp. A Rose to the Living—Selected. A Song
of Autumn—James Buckham. Under a Hedge—
Di[-]bhus.


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN PREACHER.

UPON a time, not long remote,
Some ministers of good repute,
Set out to make a pilgrimage—
And rest their brains so wise and sage,
To gain a respite from their cares,
And surcease from their many prayers,
To see the world, on pleasure bent,
They journeyed to the Orient.

But here, we should not fail to state
This little party numbered eight
Seven reverend gentlemen,
And one fair reverend woman.
They traveled far o’er sea and land,
O’er briny waves, and desert sand,
But when they reached Genoa’s shore
They paused, its beauties to scan o’er.

These reverend sires with one accord,
Paid tribute to fair Anna’s Lord. 
And Anna too, their homage shared—
Though each one secretly declared
His great desire to play a joke
On one who ne’er had borne man’s yoke.
Thus while on fair Genoa's soil,
They sought the hours to beguile.

It chanced that while they lingered here,
Some other vessels too were near—
The Gospel-ships at anchor lay,
Whose captain came for them to pray,
Give a text and friendly greeting,
And with the sailors hold a meeting.
So fa'e, it seems, with fertile plan,
Is ready e’er to help vain man.

At this time the rev’rend woman
Was ashore on duties human—
To soothe the sick, relieve the poor,
Drive cold and want from many a door,
And wi h a woman’s sympathy
Let their burdened spirits free,
While her companions sought to frame
Some lofty scheme to aid the same.

Now this request the captain made
Just helped the plans they oft had laid,
And there at once they did determine
To have the woman give the sermon;
That when before them she stood dumb,
They'd to her rescue bravely come,
And show the vast superior lore
Of manly brains, as ne’er before.

So when the captain sought their aid
In things divine they warmly said:
“One of our number is away,
One, who most has power to pray
For sinners on the downward road,
And lead them to that blest abode.
So we your message will convey
To our good friend. Ahem—Good day.”

[Column 2]
Then when the reverend Anna came,
With inward mirth and sportive game,
They told her, how she more than all,
Was honored by the captain’s call. 
Though woman-like, and modest too,
She could not quite all pride subdue,
Yet with profound and solemn thought,
Her Father’s aid in prayer she sought.

The morning dawned, serene and fair,
Seraphic incense filled the air,
The ocean, wi e in placid rest,
With scarce a ripple on its breast.
A sacred hush enrapt the ear[-]h,
Where holy thoughts must fain have birth.
The Gospel-ships at anchor lay,
In calm, and peace, t at Sabbath day.

With expectation on each face
The crew came in with measured pace,
Arranged themselves in groups sedate,
But long they did no have to wait;
For soon the preacher was brought forth—
A woman too! of grace and worth.
The captain stared, confused and grieved,
To find himself so much deceived.
A muttering murmur passed around,
And sneers on every face were found,
Save those reverend gen[-]lemen,
All were filled with discontent.

Down deep within her woman’s soul
A troubled wave began to roll
Yet firm, and brave, and strong, and true,
An inspiration rolled there too.
Deep resolves to stand undaunted,
Turn the tide on those who vaunted.
One moment quietly she stood
And breathed a fervent prayer to God,

Then on the air, so rich and full
Her voice rang out, to thrill each soul,
Her words so gentle, yet so strong,
Burst on their ears like sweetest song.
A magic spell seemed on them wrought
Their minds by retrospection caught.
Bore each one back to love and home,
Ere they had ever thought to roam.

Then with divinest eloquence—
Pure truth her aim, and sure defence;
With subtle power, step by step,
She sought to reach the inmost depth
Of fountains, long since still and dry;
And lift each heart, to God on high;
Unclasp the seal of memories vault,
That each might see his gravest fault.

She led them back to father’s side,
When they, his greatest joy and pride,
Had looked on him in fiilal love,
As next to Father up above.
She bade them think in reverent mood
Of one, who taught them first of God,
When in their childhood, pure and free,
They learned to pray at mother’s knee.

And how those parents, fond and true,
Ere they had bade that last adieu,
Had begged, and prayed them earnestly,
To keep themselves from evil free.
Fond brothers too, do not forget
Nor how the sister’s eyes are wet
With yearning tears, and hopes and love,
For him who thought it best to rove.

[Column 3]
She bade them think of sweethearts fair,
Waiting still in love and prayer,
Whose pligh ed troths were freely given,
As the gentle dews of Heaven.
The faithful wife, in care and grief,
Wh se dreadful fears find no relief,
In secret tears—to all unknown—
E’er wa ting for her love’s return,

She pleads with them in strong appeal,
To mend their ways with ardent zeal,
That on that blest home coming time,
Pure hearts and true, and lives sublime
Will cheer and bless the waiting ones,
And for their grief bring full returns;
So Father’s approbating smile
Will beam, and cheer all hearts the while.
Near the front in foremost row
An old man sat, with head bent low,
And still upon his sunbrowned face,
She yet, no softening lines could trace—
To right or left he did not turn,
Unmoved, defiant, cold and stern,
While all around emotion woke,
Strong hearts were t[-]uched and deep sobs
	broke.

She said perchance some seaman here,
May children have who love you dear,
Whose last embrace you feel e’en yet;
And see those eyes so sad and wet.
Those lisping words you still may hear,
While loving lips to yours draw near,
So real and true it all doth seem,
You cannot think it is a dream!

Now while you see this vision bright,
Made brighter by diviner light—
Resolve to make it real and true,
And nobler, holi r paths pursue,
That all this earthly b iss and love,
Be sanctified by God above.
From sin and sorrow thus made free,
And live throughout eternity.

With hands, and heart, and softening eye
Raised to the Fath[-]r’s throne on high,
In solemn prayer the soft words fall,
A benediction on them all
Lower and lower fell her tones
Till lost a length ’mid sobs and moans,
All hearts were touched the old man too
Wept and pray d he might prove true.

The crew the captain e’en the guests,
Closed round their pleasure to express,
Pressed her h nds, and al declared,
So good a speech they ne’er had heard
And there, and [-]hen, these gen[-]lemen,
Told all, how they had conquered been,
And pardon craved for ill designs,
Along such tender, sacred lines.
				ELLIS R. SHIPP.


THOMAS STANFORD, of Australia has
given $300,000 to build a library for the
University founded in California by his
brother, the late Leland Stanford.
	THE convention in Iowa now in progress
will be completed by the middle of October,
at which time the whole troupe of workers 
will take up their line of march toward
South Dakota. By that date each one of
the ninety-nine counties in Iowa will have
held its two days’ convention.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
NATIONAL COUNCIL
OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES.
	[Submittad for the approval of the
National Organizations and the Local
Councils affiliated with the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States.]
	Preliminary Program for the Annual Ex-
ecutive Session of the National Council of
the Women of the United States, October
25, 26, 27 and 28, 1897, at Nashville,
Tennessee, under the auspices of the Wo-
man’s Department of the Tennessee Cen-
tennial and International Exposition.
Monday, October 25, 9:30 a. m. Meeting
of the Executive (open only to Officers of
the National Council, Presidents and Dele-
gates of the National Organization and of
Local Councils affiliated with the National
Councils, members of the Cabinet and
Patrons.)
	Programme for Business Meeting, October
25, 9:30 a. m. 5 minutes: Roll call of
Association and Local Councils affiliated
with the National Council. 5 minutes:
Minutes of last Executive Session read by
the Recording Secretary. 5 minutes:
Annual financial statement by the Treasur-
er. Discussion upon the following ques-
tions: (1) Shall the next Triennial, which
is to be convened in 1899, sit in two houses?
(2) Upon what basis of representation may
Councils embracing two or more states be
admitted into the National Council? (3)
Shall the National Council employ an
organizer for constant work in the field in
organizing Local Councils? (4) shall a
Committee of Information be formed whose-
function it shall be to correspond with the
officers of the National Association not yet
affiliated with the Council, to the end that
an opportunity maybe secured to communi-
cate information respecting the Council to
such associations?
	Monday, October 25, 3 p. m. Formal
Opening of the Council. 5 minutes: Silent
prayer. 5 minutes: Address of Welcome
by the Chairman of the Convocation Com-
mittee, Margaret J. Weakley. 5 minutes:
Response by the Vice-President at Large of
the Council, Rev. Anna H. Shaw. 5
minutes: Announcement of Local arrange-
ments made by Convocation Committee of
the Woman’s Department of the Tennessee
Centennial and International Exposition.
GENERAL SUBJECT.
	The Work of Local Councils. Ten
minute reports from each of the following
Local Councils represented by President or
Delegate: Portland, Maine; Akron, Ohio;
Indianapolis, Indiana; Providence, Rhode
Island; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Quincy,
Illinois; Memphis, Tennessee; Cleveland,
Ohio; Maryville, Tennessee; Bloomington,
Indiana and all other Local Councils affili-
ated with the National Council.
	Address, 30 minutes: How may Local
Councils more efficiently co-operate with
Municipal Governments? Discussion on
the address. Participants limited to five
minutes each.
RECEPTION MONDAY EVENING.
	Tuesday, October 26, 9:30 a. m. Ten
minute reports from such of the following
National organizations affiliated with the
Council as are represented by a President or
Delegate: National Christian League for
the Promotion of Social Purity. National
Free Baptist Woman’s Missionary Society.
The Florence Crittenden Mission. Ameri-
can Anti-Vivisection Society. The Nation-

[Column 2]
al Council of Jewish Women. National
Woman’s Christian Temperance Union.
Woman's Foreign Mission Union of Friends.
	Address, 30 minutes: Opportunity and
Obligation of the National Council to Pro-
mote the Growth of Religious Unity. Dis-
cussion of address: Participants limited to
five minutes each. Tuesday, October 26,
3 p. m. Ten minute reports from such of
the following National organizations as are
represented by a President or Delegate:
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement
Association. Illinois Industrial School for
Girls (National Character) Wimodaughsis.
National Woman’s Relief Society. Nation-
al Association of Women Stenographers.
Ladies of the Maccabees.10 minutes:
Special report of Delegate to the Annual
Session of the National Council of Women
of Canada, held at Halifax in June.
	Address, 30 minutes: Improved Dress,
Annie White Johnson, chairman of the
committee on dress, followed by illustrated
exhibit in charge of Madame Manvell.
	Tuesday, Oct. 26, 8 p. m. Ten minute
reports from the following organizations
represented by a President or a Delegate:
National American Woman Suffrage
Association. Woman’s Republican Asso-
ciation of the United States. National
Association of Loyal Women of American
Liberty. Woman’s Relief Corps of the
Grand Army of the Republic.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Relation of
the National Council to National Govern-
mental Affairs.
	Address, 30 minutes: The National
Council as an Agent in Promoting National
Patriotism. Report of the Conference of
the International Council held in London
in July.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Relation of
the International Council to International
Governmental Affairs. Wednesday, Oct-
ober 27, 9:30 a. m. Ten minute statements
by each member of the Cabinet present.
Subject: Her own Conception of the Sig-
nificance and Scope of the Work belonging
to her own Portfolio.
	Address, 30 minutes: How may Patrons
be Rendered Helpful in the Diffusion of
the Council Idea? Discussion by Patrons
present. Participants limited to five
minutes each. 10 minutes: Report of the
Universal Peace Union.
	Address, 30 minutes: The Council as an
Agent in promoting Peace and Arbitration.
Discussion. Participants limited to five
minutes each.
	N. B.—Wednesday afternoon free for the
enjoyment of courtesies which the Commit-
tee on Convocation desire to extend.
	Wednesday Evening. Reception given
by the officers of the National Council of
Women.
	Thursday Morning, October 28. Meet-
ing of the Executive. (Open only to
officers of the National Council, Presidents
and Delegates of National Organizations
belonging to the National Council, Presi-
dents and Delegates of Local Councils
affiliated with the National Council, mem-
bers of the Cabinet and Patrons.)
	N. B.—This session will be held at the
Maxwell House, which will be the head-
quarters of the Council during the Nash-
ville Convention.
	Special Business: Action upon the
Revised Constitution. Presentation and
discussion of the reports of Special and
Standing Committees.

[Column 3]
GENERAL INFORMATION.
	For ladies not wishing to stop at the
Maxwell House, comfortable quarters can
be secured at satisfactory rates in private
boarding-houses. Information upon this
subject is volunteered by the Chairman of
the Convocation Committee, Mrs. Margar-
et J. Weakley, whose address is 117 North
Summer Street, Nashville, Tenn.
	The rates made by the railroads to and
from Nashville during the Exposition are
much lower than the rates obtained by con-  
ventions. This advantage is, of course,
available to all persons attending the
Executive Session of the National Council.
	The importance of this Executive Ses-
sion can hardly be over estimated, and it
becomes the duty of each National Organ-
ization and Local Council connected with
the National Council to take its share in
making the session worthy of the Council
and of the distinguished auspices under
which this session will be held. This
Executive Session affords the Council the
opportunity to present what is popularly
known as the “Council Idea,’’ in a section
of the country not yet reached by it; and
before audiences that will be representative
of all that is best, particularly in the South-
ern States. It also gives every member of
the Council an opportunity to present its
particular work to an audience which will
carry a knowledge of it, and the inspira-
tion to be derived from it, to all parts of
the great and growing South. 
	This preliminary programme is sent out
in the hope that the important subjects pro-
posed for discussion may be considered by
Local Councils and, as far as possible, by
members of the official board of National
organizations before the session is convened.
	N. B.—Members of the Official Boards
are asked to consider these matters, because
it will not be possible to bring them before
their respective organizations.  
	For all information concerning the local
arrangements at Nashville, inquiries may
be addressed to Mrs. Margaret J. Weakley,
117 North Summer Street, Nashville, Tenn.
	Members of the Cabinet, Patrons of the
National Council and Local Councils are
requested to address any inquiries or sug-
gestions respecting the programme to Mrs. 
May Wright Sewall, whose address is
given below.
	All other persons interested in the Nash-
ville meeting are requested to address
inquiries and suggestions to the Chairman
of the Committee, Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
Vice-President at Large of the National
Council of Women, and Chairman of the
Programme Committee of the Nashville
Meeting, Wianno, Cape Cod, Mass.
	Rachel Foster Avery, Member of the
Cabinet. Hannah J. Solomon, President
of the National Council of Jewish Women.
Annie White Johnson Chairman of Com-
mittee on Dress. May Wright Sewall,
Member of Cabinet, 633 (new) North Penn-
sylvania Street, Indianapolis, Indiana.


THE three leading newspapers of Nash-
ville employ women reporters. Miss Walk-
er represents the Sun, Mrs. Duncan the
American and Miss Porterfield the Banner.
All are able and do credit to their calling.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A ROSE TO THE LIVING.

A ROSE to the living is more 
	Than sumptuous wreaths to the dead:
In filling love’s infinite store,
A rose to the living is more—
If graciously given before
	The hungering spirit is fled— 
A rose to the living is more 
	Than sumptuous wreaths to the dead.
				SELECTED.


A SONG OF AUTUMN.

Ho for the bending sheaves,
Ho for the crimson leaves 
	Flaming in splendor!
Season of ripened gold,
Plenty in crib and fold,
Skies with depths untold,
	Liquid and tender.
Far. like the smile of God,
See how the golden-rod
	Ripples and tosses!
Yonder a crimson vine
Trails from a bearded pine,
Thin as a thread of wine 
	Staining the mosses.
Bright ’neath the morning blue
Sparkles the frosted dew,
	Gem-like and starry.
Hark how the partridge cock
Pipes to the scattered flock, 
Mindful how swift the hawk
	Darts on his quarry!
Autumn is here again—
Banners on hill and plain 
	Blazing and flying.
Hail to the amber morn, 
Hail to the heaped up corn,
Hail to the hunter's horn,
	Swelling and dying!
				JAMES BUCKHAM.


UNDER A HEDGE.

A FLORIST a sweet little blossom espied,
Which bloomed like its Ancestors by the road side,
Its fragrance was simple, its colors were few,
But the blossom looked fair in the spot
Where it grew. Under a Hedge. 

The Florist beheld it and cried “I’ll enchant
The Botanical world with this sweet little plant.
Its leaves shall be sheltered and carefully nursed,
It shall charm all the world tho’ I met with it first
			Under a Hedge.”

He carried it home to his hot-house with care 
And said “Tho’ the rarest exotics are there
My little pet plant when I’ve nourished its stem
In tints and in fragrance shall imitate them
And none shall suspect from the road side it
	came.
Rodum Sidus I’ll call it, a beautiful name,
And when Botanists look through their glasses to
	view
Its beauties they’ll never suspect that it grew
			Under a Hedge.”

The little pet plant when it shook off the dust
Of its own native ditch soon began to grow pert
And tossed its small head, for perceiving that none
But exotics were round it, it thought itself one
And forgot that it grew, Under a Hedge.

As a wild flower all would have owned it was
	fair,
And praised it though gaudier blossoms were
	there,
But when it assumes the hot-house airs we see
	through
The forced tints of its leaves and suspect that it
	grew
			Under a Hedge


In the by-ways of life oh how many there are, 
Who being born under a fortunate star, 
Assisted by beauty or talent grow rich, 
To bloom in a hot-house instead of a ditch.
And whilst they disdain not their own simple
	stem,
The honor they grasp may gain honor from them
But when like the pet plant such people grow
	pert, 
We soon trace them to their original birth
				Under a Hedge
						DILBHUS.


[Column 1]
MADAME MOUNTFORD.

WHAT THE CALIFORNIA PAPERS SAY.
	THAT Madame Mountford is a remark-
ably brilliant woman, and that she is a
great orator and actress, goes without say-
ing to all who were fortunate enough to
have heard her series of lectures at the
Yosemite theater last week, and that she is
withal a true, noble and Christian woman.
Her heart is in the work she has created
and although she has wonderful talents and
would make one of the greatest actresses
the world has known—would, in fact,
succeed in almost any intellectual pursuit—
she feels that this is her mission, and in
doing it she is carrying out the life-work of
her father and of a long line of Christian
ancestors. Her noble aim is to awaken
an interest in the Bibie and by teachings
and explanations with living pictures and
scenes make the word of God so plain, so
simple and so beautiful that every child
will understand and be benefited by it.
We usually expect when we see so large a
woman as Madame Mountford to find in
her a lack of gentleness and much that is
masculine. Not so the Madame. A little
chat with her in her room dispels at
once this illusion and convinces the most
incredulous that she is all gentleness, refine-
ment and altogether charming. Her voice
is low and sweet and her suave and cour-
teous manners are those of an Oriental of
noble blood. She has lectured for fourteen
years, most of the time in foreign lands,
and it is said that her name has become
a familiar household word throughout all
England. She has visited America severel
times and has lectured in most of the large
cities in the East. This is, however, her
first trip to the coast. She went to Salt
Lake City under engagement of the Boston
Concert and Lecture Bereau. Her season
with them having expired she came to Cali-
fornia- not on a lecturing tour, but simply
to see the country of which she had heard
so much. During the Woman’s Congress
in San Francisco she was persuaded to
give a series of lectures and having met
with unqualified success there and here she
has concluded to visit all the larger cities
in the State, and will lecture in them be-
ginning this week in Sacramento. Dr.
Ellis will act as her agent while in this
State. To one comfortably seated in the
audience and gazing upon scene after scene
of Oriental splendor, made so intensly
interesting and beautiful by this gifted wo-
man, but little idea can be formed of the
vast amount of work that goes on behind
the scenes. After having closed, as she
thought, her lecturing tour for the season
she sent her four trained assistants back to
England and came here with only her
maid and valet. As it requires from four-
teen to twenty men, women and children to
assist her in illustrating her lectures, it is

[Column 2]
no easy matter to rehearse and train such a
large number for these lectures. I was an
interested spectator behind the scenes and
watched her as she labored unceasingly
with them up to the last moment before the
curtain rose. Although her maid and valet
rendered some assistance in converting her
company into priests, scribes, shepherds,
Samaritans, Bedouins etc., yet all of the
draping of veils and sashes, sorting out and
arranging of robes, the winding of yards
and yards of material which she rolls into
ropes and puts around and around the
heads in turban fashion, the putting on of
jewels, necklaces and armlets and a thou-
sand and one other details are all done by
the artistic and graceful touch of the
Madame herself. So by the time all receive
the last touch, which is to give the rosy
tint to the cheeks and lips and the dark
shade to the eyebrows and eyes, any other
woman would have been too exhausted to
have gone upon the stage at all, much less
to have held the undivided attention of a
large audience for three hours, but not so
Madame Mountford. Her power of endur-
ance seemed to be equal to her intellect.
When she lectures in the evening she eats
nothing after her noonday meal until her
lecture is over. If she is to give a matinee
no food or nourishment of any kind is taken
after her early breakfast until the matinee
is over, and then very little if she is to
lecture on the same evening. The Madame
has expended $25,000 on the robes,
draperies and Oriental paraphernalia which
she carries with her. They are of heavy
linen, fine camels-hair and silks, most of
which are heavily embroidered and inter-
woven with gold, all done by the hands of
the Oriental women of her country.


POLITICAL SCIENCE STUDY.

	IN the third year’s work of its course of
study in Political Science, the National
American Woman Suffrage Association in-
vites its constituency and its friends, to
unite in earnest investigation and discus-
sion of the more prominent social problems
which are demanding public attention at
this time. It is itself a non-partisan reform
body, representing only one proposed
change. In no sense does it espouse any of
the solutions proposed for the social prob-
lems to which it invites attention. Its only
object in inaugurating the course of study is
to disseminate political information, and its
only hope is. that there shall develop, on
the part of its students and their friends, a
truer reform spirit, a broader tolerance, a
warmer hospitality to new ideas, and a
clearer sense of the duty each individual
owes to the future.
	The Announcement contains a list of
books required for the year, and complete
directions for their use. It may be obtained
free by addressing Carrie Chapman Catt,
107 World’s Building, N. Y.


A RULE of the Postoffice Department for-
bids publications to be sent to persons in
lieu of dues paid to an organization. For
this reason the National Suffrage Bulletin
can no longer be sent to the dollar members
of the National Association. The Septem-
ber number will go to all as usual, but they
will be marked “sample copies,” and any
member who wishes to continue the Bulle-
tin must send the subscription price, 25
cents.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 15, 1897.


[Column 1]
MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS.

	IF to give expression to such sublime
sentiments as those uttered by President
Woodruff at the late Conference be deemed
treason, then has the world gone backward
instead of forward. If to declare honesty
is before partisanship is wrong, then have
we indeed come upon perilous times, that
must try honest men's souls to the utter-
most. Surely women have not yet become
so wedded to parties that they must vote
with a certain party, whether their own
conscience will approve or not. If the wo-
men of this city will heed the signs of the
times, and notice how vice and corruption
have grown and flourished in this fair land
within the last few years, there need be no
fear of misrule, for if all honorable upright
men, vote for men of principle and strict
integrity and the great majority of women
join with them in the struggle for a change
in city government, there will be no cause
for fear of being outdone by any party poli-
ticians, who are after the spoils of office.
	The words of wise and good men like
President Woodruff should be heeded in
this campaign, and wisdom and prudence
should be exercised in urging upon those
who are not informed of the conditions of
the city government, that they may know
of the traps and snares laid for the unsuspect-
ing and unwary. It is not the time for
silence but the people should be fearless and
willing to speak the truth and stand for the
right. This spirit of resistance against
those who oppress the taxpayer and the
laborer is not confined to Salt Lake City
nor to Utah, although if it were the cause
is just, but in several large cities of the
East, the non partisan theory has been put
in active operation.
	In one of the leading magazines of the
day the writer upon this subject speaking
from experience says: “With me associ-
ated as treasurer of the board was Mr.
Avery E. Andrews. He was a Democrat,
I a Republican, and there were questions of
of national politics on which we disagreed
widely; but such questions could not enter
into the administration of the New York
police if that administration was to be both
honest and efficient, and as a matter of fact,
during my two years service Mr. Andrews
and I worked in absolute harmony on every
important question of policy which arose.
The prevention of blackmail and corruption,
the suppression of crime and violence, the
safe guarding of life and property, securing
honest elections and rewarding efficient and 

[Column 2]
punishing inefficient police service, are not
and cannot be properly made questions of
party difference. In other words such a
body as the New York police force can be
wisely and properly administered only up-
on a non-partisan basis, and both Mr. 
Andrews and myself were quite incapable
of managing it on any other.
	“Certain of the difficulties we had to face
were merely those which confronted the en-
tire administration in its management of the
municipality. Many worthy people expect-
ed that this reform administration would
make an absolute revolution, not merely in
the government but in the minds of the
citizens as a whole; and felt vaguely that
they had been cheated because there was
not an immediate changing of every bad
influence in social life.
	“In administering the police force we
found, as might be expected, that there was no
need of genius, nor indeed of any very un-
usual qualities. What was required was
the exercise of the plain ordinary virtues,
of a rather commonplace type, which all
good citizens should be expected to possess.
Common sense, common honesty, courage,
energy, resolution, readiness to learn, and a
desire to be as pleasant with everybody as
was compatible with a strict performance
of duty: these were the qualities most call-
ed for.
	“Our methods for restoring order and
discipline were simple, and hardly less so
were our methods for securing efficiency.
	“It was not at all difficult to protect
decent people in their rights, and this re-
sult was effected at once. It was the en-
forcement of the liquor law which caused
most excitement.”
	On this subject the writer has much to
say and closes it after several columns by
saying: “The result of our labors
was of value to the city, for we gave the
citizens better protection than they had
ever before received, and at the same time
root out the corruption which was eating
away civic morality. We were attacked
with the most bitter animosity by many
sensational newspapers and every politician
of the baser sort, not because of our short-
comings, but because of what we did that
was good. We enforced the laws as they
were on the statute books, we broke up
blackmail, we kept down the spirit of dis-
order and suppressed rascality, and we ad-
ministered the force with an eye single to
the welfare of the city. In doing this we
encountered, as we had expected, venom-
ous opposition of all men to whose interest
it was that corruption should continue, or
who were of such dull morality that they
were not willing to see honesty triumph at
the cost of strife.”
	“We were obliged to treat all questions that
arise purely on their merits, without refer-
ence to the desires of the politician. We
went into this course with our eyes open,
for we knew the trouble it would cause us
personally, and what was far more import-
ant, the way in which our efforts for re-
form would consequently be hampered.
However, there was no alternative but to
abide the result. We had counted the cost
before we adopted our plan, and we follow-
ed it resolutely to the end.”
	Some of the best women in New York
City came forward in the movement made
in 1894 spoken of here, and lent their sup- 
port in various ways, though they had not
the ballot as women have in Utah. If
effective work can be done without the fran-

[Column 3]
chise, think how much more weight women
can have who hold the voting power. It
seems quite essential that the women of this
city at the present time should inform
themselves concerning this important ques-
tion of non-partisanship in municipal affairs
and vote understandingly, which is easy
enough to do if one will take a little time to
study the questions. It is simply a duty
which the women of this city owe to them-
selves and the community of which they
form a part, to stand resolutely and deter-
mindly for good government by a faithful
administration of the laws upon the statute
books. Surely no woman with any pro-
nounced ideas of honesty, economy and
morality would wish to see the present
conditions continue. A radical change
must come, and the only course to pursue
to avoid strife and trouble, is to declare for a
non-partisan administration of municipal
affairs.


MISS BELLE KEARNEY.

	MISS BELLE KEARNEY, a celebrated
teacher and lecturer and a great favorite
with the public wherever she has spoken
both in America and across the ocean,
recently visited Salt Lake City and spoke
in the large Tabernacle, Saturday evening,
Oct. 2. Her lecture was entitled “Why
Are The Wheels Clogged?’’and here as else-
where, she was received with great favor.
Miss Kearney is traveling under the auspices
of the Woman’s Christian Temperance
Union. Miss Frances E. Willard speaks of
her eloquence and devotion to the cause in
the highest terms of praise. Miss Kearney
came to Utah partly to attend a Conven-
tion of the W. C. T. U. held here at that
time, and she made several speeches at the
Convention that were highly complimented.
She is a young Southerner from Mississippi
with the pleasing Southern accent and an
easy, graceful manner.
	President Angus M. Cannon presided
during the evening in the Tabernacle, and
introduced Miss Kearney, and Elder A. E.
Miner offered prayer. The Committee had
succeeding in securing some of the best
musical talent in the city for a musical pro-
gram. Prof. J. J. McLellan rendered in
his inimitable style, with great feeling and
expression the “Ave Marie” from Mascag-
nis’ opera Cavelleira Rusticana, and Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edwards sang “Just As I
Am” by Sudds, with intense feeling, and
her high notes rang out clear and distinct,
which is always a pleasing feature in vocal
music. Prof. Heber S. Goddard sang an
Aria by Donizetti, his magnificent voice
filling the large building with rich vocal
tones, awakening tender and sublime emo-
tions. A sacred thing indeed is the gift of
song, and accompanied by such music as
Prof. McLellan is capable of rendering,
and in a building that is of itself lofty and
inspiring to the soul, one cannot help feel-
ing it must be a joy to give so much pleas-
ure to others.
	Miss Kearney is a very fluent and origin-
al speaker, she uses no notes, nor is she in
any sense sensational. Her voice is far-
reaching and full of pathos, and her tones
are never monotonous. She is a young wo-
man of strong character and a just desire to
do good, she is giving her talents and heart
to this missionary work.
	A reception was tendered Miss Kearney
at the residence of Mrs. Annie T. Hyde


where those who were anxious to meet her
socially might have the opportunity. Mrs.
Hyde’s handsome parlors were artistically
decorated with beautiful autumn leaves and
boughs, and presented an almost fairy-like
appearance, and with the cordial welcome
of the pleasing hostess and her sweet man-
nered and amiable daughters, the afternoon
was very enjoyable, even though the storm
kept many of the ladies from calling.
About thirty, however, availed themselves
of the privilege of meeting and chatting for
a few moments with Miss Kearney, who is
a delightful conversationalist in a social
way, as well as a wonderful public speaker.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY ENTERTAINMENT.

	THE Central Board of the Primary Asso-
ciations, Mrs. Louie B. Felt president,
planned a very excellent entertainment in
honor of Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers to be held
in the Fourteenth ward Assembly Hall on
the evening of her birthday, October 4, in
this city. Preparations had been going on
for some time previous and the affair proved
a perfect success.
	Mrs. Rogers is known throughout Zion as
the originator of the Primary Associations,
which have been such a blessing and bene-
fit not only to the children, but to many of
the parents; whatever is a spiritual or a
moral uplifting is a blessing to the world,
and this Association reaches to the little
ones, or should do, in each ward in every
Stake of Zion.
	The hall was beautifully and tastefully
decorated in every available place with
flowers and Autumn leaves and boughs
which gave a charming effect, and the
platform and tables looked very attractive.
Mrs. Felt, her counselor, Mrs. Lillie T.
Freeze and her secretary, Miss May Ander-
son and others associated with them, receiv-
ed the guests and managed the program in
a very creditable manner. Where there
were so many things that deserved men-
tion it is rather difficult to select, but the
delightful paper prepared by Mrs. Lillie T.
Freeze and read by Mrs. Maggie Bassett
certainly should be favorably noticed. It
was a history of the work in brief giving
honor where honor was due, and was writ-
ten in a very pleasing style and read in a
way that all could appreciate. The paper
will, of course, be published and preserved
on record. Mrs. Lucy A. Clark had written
a sweet song which was sung during the
evening and was one of the pleasing fea-
tures of the entertainment.
	Mrs. Rogers, the recipient of the honors,
was a picture and a study. It was pleasant
to look at her as she partly reclined in her 
easy chair (for she came from a sick bed to
be present,) she was most becomingly attir- 
ed and her face always serene in repose was
an index to the soul within, pure and spirit-
ual. She received and responded to the
congratulations showered upon her with
that ease of manner characteristic of the
Spencers. That she was surprised when
she learned all that had been done was ap-
parent, yet there was no outburst, nor
special demonstration.
	The children who took part in the pro-
gram (and it would not have been complete
without children) rendered their exercises
in a very satisfactory and delightful way,
and the best of selections had been made.
	Mrs. Rogers had for some time been de-
sirous of publishing her life and also the
origin, development and progress of the

[Column 2]
Primary Associations, and had collected to-
gether the material and written the manu-
script, and the Central Board, under the
management of its president, Mrs Felt,
have raised the means to secure the pub-
lication desired. Elder Joseph Felt an-
nounced the fact to the audience by reading
a letter from the publishers, Geo. Q. Can-
non Sons and Co. This is the most fitting
tribute that could be bestowed by the Asso-
ciation upon one whose inspired thought
brought about such spiritual growth in the
little ones, the children of the Saints.
	Appropriate remarks were made, songs
were rendered and gifts of lovely flowers
were given and delicious refreshments were
served by beautiful young girls, and Presi-
dent Felt and her associates must have
been highly gratified by the good spirit and
feeling that was manifest in all that was
said and done.


[Column 1]
A RINGING ADDDRSS.

To the People of Salt Lake City:
	EVERY taxpayer is an investor, every
resident a shareholder in the government of
his city. All are directly interested in its
prosperity and advancement. Shortsighted
and selfish is he who makes any other in-
terest paramount to the public welfare;
desperate is the condition of any municipal-
ity where cliques or rings or incompetence
or partisanship control in official affairs,
and business methods become subordinate
to personal or political advancement. In-
dustry languishes, extravagance runs riot,
patriotism is repressed, the honest pride of
citizens dwindles and the people suffer.
	We hold it to be necessary to state, re-
gretfully yet plainly, certain facts with
reference to the condition of public affairs in
Salt Lake City. It is better to tell the truth
now, even at the cost of advertising our
misfortunes, than by concealment and in-
activity to rush swiftly to further sufferings.
	Heavy debts, increase of offices, large
salaries and consequent excessive taxation
have made the burdens upon the people un-
bearable. In 1890 the aggregate of taxa-
tion in Salt Lake City was eleven mills; in
1897 it is twenty seven and one half mills.
Even this enormous figure will not cover
current expenses at their present volume;
and when to this is added that the valua-
tion on which the assessment is made is in
many instances greater than the property
is worth, there will be hone to dispute that
Salt Lake City bears a burden heavier than
almost any city in the land. Depreciation
in values since 1890 has gone hand in hand
with increase in expenses; the ease with
which public money has been expended is
only to be compared with the difficulty the
people have had in supplying it. All things
considered, the statement is fairly suscepti-
ble of proof that taxes have increased more
than two hundred per cent during the seven
years, while the prevailing depression has
many times multiplied the difficulties of the
taxpayer. The load thus placed upon the
small wage-earner and home-owner has
been and is grievous to be borne; among
the poorer classes it has in many cases
amounted to virtual confiscation. Public
improvements which under a more conserv-
ative policy might have been prosecuted,
and thus furnished employment to many
people, have had to be postponed. Nor
have the poorer classes been the only suf-
ferers.  Investments have been discouraged

[Column 2]
because property, even where favorably-
situated, is able to return little more than 
the amount of the taxes; capital, naturally
timid, has not looked this way with favor;
and business men generally have felt to the
utmost extent the voracity of the tax mons-
ter which consumed so much of the profits
of their enterprise and toil.
	 For the present year the city’s income
has been partially anticipated and used—a
deficit exists, in the payment of which a
large portion of the current year’s taxes will
be needed that should properly go only for
next year’s necessary expenditures. In
addition to ordinary expenses, fifty thou-
sand dollars per year, commencing with
1898, must be raised as a sinking fund for
the payment of our municipal debt, which,
as a fitting climax to these financial woes,
may be announced as reaching the enorm-
ous sum of over $2,509,000. Besides all
other evils that come from this condition of
public affairs, the city is prevented from
doing necessary work in preserving and
adding to municipal improvements, the con-
sequence of which is that the city’s progress
is stopped.
	This is a gloomy yet a truthful picture.
Happily we believe a remedy and relief can
be had. The situation calls for the highest
patriotism; men of undoubted integrity and
business ability must be called to office, re-
gardless of politics and every other consider-
ation save the capacity for the duties re-
quired.
	We affirm it as a correct principle and
one that should prevail henceforth, that the
government Of this city should be taken per-
manently out of politics and put wholly on
a business basis. Party administration in
municipal affairs should be forever abolish-
ed. This is no experiment, no new doc-
trine. The best governed cities of the Old
World have made it triumphant, the larg-
est and most progressive American cities
are struggling successfully with the same
problem. The hand of the politician will
in the near future be shaken off in all muni-
cipal affairs, party polities in municipal
campaigns will have no place. Salt Lake
City should be in the front in this great re-
form. Its business should be managed by
business men of approved fitness and ex-
perience. Its servants and employees should
be selected for these qualifications and no
others, just as any private or corporate
business, of which the municipality is after
all but the larger counterpart. Every
shareholder has the right to demand this in
the one case as well as in the other; the
highest success and the best results can be
achieved in no other way.
	Therefore, we who have signed our
names to this address, affirm and hold to
these principles and declarations:
	That party politics have no necessary
connection with municipal management:
	That only such persons should be select-
ed for municipal office as are honest, effici-
ent and willing to devote the requisite time
to the public service, having no unneces-
sary deputies or assistants:
	Who will conduct public sffairs on econ-
omical and strictly business principles:
	Who will levy no higher taxes than are
absolutely needed for public expenses:
	Who will reduce salaries to figures con-
sonant with financial conditions, paying
only such compensation for public services
as would be paid in private business:
	Who will treat public trust as an honor
conferred, not an opportunity for privat gain.


We cordially invite the people of this
city of all parties, creeds and opinions to
join with us in this effort to establish an
efficient, economical, non-partisan munici-
pal government. In furtherance of this
effort we place in nomination the following
named persons to fill the various elective
municipal offices, to be voted for at the
coming election, pledging them our sup-
port and appealing to all patriotic citizens
to do likewise:
CITIZENS REFORM TICKET.
	Mayor—JOHN CLARK.
	Recorder—MISS JOAN SPRAGUE. 
	Treasurer—JOSEPH E. CAINE.
	Auditor—GEORGE SWAN.
	Attorney—PARLEY L. WILLIAMS.
	Police Justice—C. A. WOOLLEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday, Oct. 2, 1897, President M. I. 
Horne presiding. Singing “Come, come
ye Saints.” Prayer by Sister Wright. Sing-
ing “Let those who would be Saints in-
deed.”
	President Horne was very sorry to see so
few here this afternoon but thought it was
owing to the near approach of conference.
Felt there were enough for a blessing and
said this was a trying time for the Saints,
that when we first came here to the valley
that was a trying time but the present time
was the more so. Now was the time to be
tested; now was the time to catechise our-
selves and look into our own hearts. Spoke
of the way we were being tried and perse-
cuted by extremely high taxes. She was
surprised that some of our people would
quarrel and wrangle over politics. We 
should ask our Heavenly Father which
course to take and trust to Him, and to go
to Him humbly and He would hear us.
Spoke in favor of the Non-Partisan ticket, 
said for years she had been in favor of hav-
ing a party that was non-partisan, and said
President D. H. Wells said that the women
were a power in the land. Made some ex-
cellent remarks on this subject. Felt if we
all who were here, though few, testified to
the goodness of God we would be blest.
	The minutes having arrived were read
and accepted.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder felt that President
Horne had dwelt on many precious subjects
especially that of praying for light on this
coming election. Spoke beautifully on
prayer, and said many times the feeling of
prayer would come over us and at the time
we might be busy, still she felt that the
thought ascended up to heaven and was
accepted. Spoke of the efficacy of prayer
in the case of President Woodruff’s daugh-
ter. Said many times our prayers were not
answered but when this was the case the
Lord would show us that it was better for
us not to have what we had prayed for.
Urged the sisters to fully trust Him, and
said nothing that comes to us would harm
us but would turn to blessings on our
heads. Referred to the vision that Joseph
and Hyrum Smith had when they saw their
mother home praying for them, at the time
when they had the cholera.
	Sister M. O. Brown spoke on prayer, said
she loved to pray and thought nothing
brought to her the comfort that prayer did.
Spoke on asking counselfrom those in
authority.

[Column 2]
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she had
enjoyed the prayer of Sister Wright which
was a sermon in itself, also the remarks of
our President. She had only just got
home from a trip in the country. Gave a
very interesting account of her trip in the
interest of the Relief Society work. Urged
the sisters to be humble and prayerful and
to be true to one another, thought it was
dreadful to have hard feelings towards any
one, but if such were the case it was our
duty to go to the person, or persons, and
make it right. Spoke of the duty of
mothers and urged the sisters to bear their
testimony.
	Sister Wright felt we should let nothing
come along to prevent us from coming to
these meetings. When she was a little
girl her father taught her to pray, and used
to tell her to never let the sun get down on
her anger for she might never see it again.
Spoke of a recent conversation she had
with a lady stranger, felt she had done
some little good in doing so. Rejoiced in
her Temple work and prayed she might
always remain faithful.
	Sister E. Webb felt Sister Wright had
given us very good advice about leaving
our household cares and attending our
meetings. Said many times she had left
dinner dishes as well as the wash tub to
attend her meeting because she felt it was
her duty. Felt sorry that there was so
much strife and division in politics as there
is, and spoke of the happy time we used to
enjoy when this was not the case. Spoke
on prayer and said there was nothing that
gave such comfort as going off by ourselves
and asking our Heavenly Father to help
us; also spoke of the anxiety that mothers
felt for their children and of the joy her
Temple work brought to her, said it help-
ed her to bear the burdens of life, for we all
had them. Urged the sisters to come here.
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt she had been
blest in coming here this afternoon, many
precious things had been spoken. Made
some very pleasing remarks.
	Sister Lizzie Decker said she felt she
must speak of the goodness of God to her,
and said she never could have lived if it
had not been that she could go to the Lord
and ask Him for help. Referred to her
Temple work and the benefit it had been to
her, also spoke of her anxiety for her child-
ren and asked the blessing of Heaven upon
us.
	Sister Frances Smith spoke of the faith
of her little grand-daughter who was very
much afflicted with scarlet fever, she said
she knew if they would send her name to
her Sunday school to be prayed for she
would be healed. This was done and she
was healed almost instantly.
	Testimonies were borne by Sisters Sarah
Phelps and Alice Woolley. President Horne
made some excellent closing remarks and
meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
	Singing ‘‘From all that dwell below.”
Benediction by Sister Lula G. Richards.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.


U.W. P. C.

	MINUTES of the U. W. P. C. held
Sep. 30. President Fox called the meeting
to order at the usual time. After prayer by
Mrs. Stevenson, the secretary called the
roll, members responding with sentiments
from Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
	Under “unfinished business” the amend-
ments to the Federation Constitution by the


Woman’s club, which was laid on the table
at the previous meeting, were brought be-
fore the club. Amendment to Art. III,
sec. 3 was read and discussed. A motion
was made by Dr. Ferguson that the amend-
ment be accepted The motion was lost.
The amendment to the by laws, Art. II.
was read and discussed. Motion by Dr.
Ferguson that this amendment be accepted.
Carried. The club voted that the annual
business meeting should be held Monday,
October 18, at 11 a. m.
	Next in order was the critic’s report by
Dr. Shipp. Dr. Pratt was appointed critic
for the evening.
	The evening’s program was as follows:
Topic—“Alaska,” Mrs. Aimee Schiller.
Original poem—“The Woman Preacher,”
Dr. Shipp. Mrs. Dickinson was unable to
be present and her paper on the “Effect of
Klondike gold discoveries on American in-
terests” was postponed.
	Mrs. Lawler at the request, of the club
described the vessel in which she crossed
the Atlantic, also a number of points and
places of interest in Paris. The program
for the October meeting was discussed and
suggestions made. A motion was made
and carried that at the October meeting
each member represent some prominent
character in fiction. A motion was made
and carried that each member be permitted
to bring an escort. Dr. Shipp graciously
offered her home for that meeting. The
club decided to have refreshments and
Pearl Russell, Mrs. Lovesy, Mrs. Wilcox,
Mrs. Hyde and Clara Ferguson were ap-
pointed as a committee to assist Dr. Shipp.
Dr. Pratt gave her report as critic, the
minutes were read and after benediction by
Mrs. Young the club adjourned for one
month.
			ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference held at Canes-
ville August 24, 1897 in the afternoon,
President Jane S. Coleman presiding. Sing-
ing “How firm a foundation.” Prayer by
Patriarch F. W. Young. Singing “What
was witnessed in the heavens.”
	Prasident. Jane S. Coleman said it afford-
ed her much pleasure to meet with the
brethren and sisters in Relief Society con-
ference. She had lately visited the local
branches of the Relief Society in the west-
ern part of the Stake, all were feeling and
doing well and were energetic in their
labors. Encouraged the sisters to attend
their meetings, especially the monthly testi-
mony meetings, and advised the young sis-
ters to attend also, that a bond of friendship
and good feeling should exist between the
Y. L. M. I. A. and the Relief Society by
mingling together; good advice can be
given, virtue taught and much good
accomplished. Spoke of looking after the
poor and the necessity for the members to
give temporal aid (donations) that the presi-
dent may have the necessary means at
hand to carry out what is required of her.
Wished the sisters to be more interested in
the EXPONENT by subscribing for it.
	Sister Eliza Rust, president of the Canes-
ville Relief Society, gave a good report.
Said all the young sisters had joined and
were members of the Relief Society. They
have a lot nicely fenced and cultivated,
they got a good crop of beans on part of it.
	President Mary A. White reported Giles


[Column 1]
in good condition. Sister Robinson (our
Stake President’s mother) said she had been
interested in the remarks made. She had
visited the Relief Society with Sister Cole-
man and had an enjoyable time. Spoke
upon prayer and the testimony of the Gos-
pel, also upon obeying the Word of Wis-
dom, and gave good advice.
	Sister Mary Ballard reported the Thur-
ber Relief Society in good running order.
Said they were building a Relief Society
hall and had very good success in their
undertaking.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks spoke well,
encourged the mothers to attend their meet-
ings and set an example for their daughters,
also spoke upon virtue, the Word of Wis-
dom and keeping the commandments of
God.
	President H. M. Hansen felt pleased to
hear the good reports of the sisters and
encouraged them to continue to press for-
ward, and their efforts to accomplish good
would be crowned with success.
	President G. Bastian said he had been
interested in the remarks made, also in
hearing the reports given. Spoke on being
kind to the poor, that the needy should not
think or feel bad to receive from the Relief
Society when in need of assistance. He
spoke to the young, said to be kind to their
parents.
	Bishop Hanks had been interested in the
good remarks during the conference and
appreciated the labors of the Relief Society.
Spoke on prayer and a virtuous life.
	President W. E. Robinson said he felt to
endorse the remarks of his brethren and sis-
ters and was pleased with the reports of the
different branches of the Society. He
always speaks very encouragingly to the
sisters and sustains them by attending the
conferences and giving a word in season on
many good subjects. Conference adjourned
till called. Singing. Benediction by
Elder Joseph Eckersley.
			ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.
BEAVER STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of Beaver Stake held
its conference in the Society Hall, Beaver
City, Utah, Tuesday Sep. 3, 1897, com-
mencing at 10 o’clock a. m. Present on
the stand were President C. D. White,
Counselors M. L. Shepherd and J. F. Tol-
ton, Bishop Geo. Mumford, Patriarch D.
Tyler, Prof. W. G. Bickley, Sisters C. C.
Shepherd, S. M. Dell, President J. W.
Bickley and others. Meeting was called to
order by Sister C. C. Shepherd. Singing
“Hail to the brightness.” Prayer by
Patriarch D. Tyler. Singing “Praise to
the man.” Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	Sister Shepherd felt thankful to see so
many present, still there is a vacancy in
our midst, but we know that our dear
departed President, Sister Tyler, did her
work and did it well. Felt sorry that
through sickness Sister M. A. White was
prevented from being with us. She had
in company with other sisters visited
through the Stake and found a good set of
sisters, all alive to their duties.
	President J. W. Bickley reported the
Beaver Relief Society in good condition and
working unitedly. Invited all to attend
the dedicatory services of the new granery
on the 16th inst.
	Sister E. E. Owen said there was a good
spirit here, and contrasted the condition of
the Saints who own comfortable homes as

[Column 2]
being far in advance of a large portion of
the world.
	President C. D. White felt pleased to see
so many present, no ward is complete with
out a Relief Society. The women of a com-
munity shape its destiny. Said he was very
sorry to have to reorganize the Stake Soci-
ety, and spoke very highly of our departed
president. Did not know whom the sisters
would like for president, desired each one
to write a first and second choice on slips
of paper, and himself and counselors would
look them over during the noon hour and
decide. Made many encouraging and
instructive remarks, and said this was a
good year to store grain.
	Bishop Geo. Mumford said the duties of
the sisters as well as the brethren are great.
There is a place for every one in this
Church, let our Church duties be first.
Spoke on economy, and said we should
give kind advice to our young people. If
we see any a little wayward take them
aside and talk kindly and show them their
danger.
	Counselor M. A. Tolton bore a faithful
testimony to the Gospel and said we
should sustain our officers and the author-
ties. Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “Be it my only wisdom here.” Bene-
diction by Counselor M. L. Shepherd.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting called
to order at 2 p.m. by Sister C. C. Shepherd.
Singing “Glory to God on high.” prayer
by Prof. W. C. Bickley. Singing “I saw
a mighty angel fly.” The secretary read
a letter from Sister Hannah Sorenson, also
one from Dr. Allen of Provo in regard to
Sister Sorenson’s class of work. Sister L.
W. Jones explained why we should have
those lectures.
	Sister S. M. Dell bore her testimony and
desired to be useful. Counselor M L.
Shepherd said the duties of the Relief Soci-
ety were many and varied. Spoke on
economy, cleanliness, training of our child-
ren and the storing of grain.
	Sister Lydia White made a few excellent
remarks, wanted to do all the good she
could. Sister M. E. Murdock spoke very
highly of Sister Sorenson and hoped we
would get her here and be benefited by her
good instructions. Spoke against slander.
	Counselor J. F. Tolton praised the
labors of the Relief Society and the interest
taken therein. Unity brings success. No
unclean spirit can enjoy the benefits derived
from the Gospel. Sister Mary Fernley and
Betsy Goodwin made excellent remarks.
Patriarch D. Tyler spoke of the ability and
talent of Sister Sorenson. Said we want to
advance in knowledge.
	The biographical sketch and resolutions
formulated by the Beaver Relief Society in
behalf of our beloved President, Sister Ruth
W. Tyler, printed in Vol. 25, No. 22 of the
Woman’s Exponent were read by Sister
L. W. Jones and adopted by the Stake
Relief Society.
	Sister Alice M. T. Tanner urged the
sisters to sustain the EXPONENT. Presi-
dent C. D. White spoke very emphatically
in regard to sustaining the EXPONENT,
also spoke highly in regard to Sister Soren-
son’s labor. “We need such instructions.
The sisters have been unanimous in select-
ing Sister Cedaressa C. Shepherd for presi-
dent and we are well pleased with the
choice.” She was sustained and set apart,
but being surprised, was unprepared to
select counselors. Alice M. T. Tanner as
secretary and Emily C. Olsen as treasurer

[Column 3]
were set apart for those offices. President
Shepherd made few closing remarks and
conference adjourned for three months. 
Singing “May the grace of Christ our
Savior.” Benediction by Bishop George
Mumford.
		ALICE M. T. TANNER, Sec.
	P. S. Sister Shepherd having selected
her counselors they were set apart at the
Beaver Stake quarterly conference, Sunday 
Sep. 19, 1897, as follows: First counselor,
Mary A. White; second counselor, Harriet
E. Fotheringham.
MEADOW PRIMARY.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	WE thought perhaps you would like to
hear from the Meadow Primary Association
which was reorganized August 9th, 1892,
with Martha B. Adams president; Isabella
Stott first and Elizabeth B. Bennett second
counselors; Alice J. Duncan secretary, and
Mary H. Adams assistant secretary. There
are about one hundred names enrolled; it is
mostly kept up by the smaller children.
	We hold meetings every Friday after-
noon. The Primary is averagely attended.
We had a Primary entertainment Wednes-
day evening, August 11, for the purpose of
obtaining means to help publish a book
written by Aurelia Spencer Rogers. The
program was as follows: Singing by the
Primary choir entitled “The Primary pray-
er song.” Prayer by Counselor N. M.
Stewart. Singing “Joseph Smith’s first
prayer.” An opening speech by Elizabeth
B. Bennett. Articles of Faith. Song by
Amy and Ethel Bushnell, “I’m not too
young for God to see.” Sentiments by
Lilas Adams, Myrtle Stewart and Ornald
Beckstrand. Music by Mandolin and 
Guitar Club, which played between the
other parts being taken. Bible questions
and answers. Recitation by Amy Stott,
“Angel Guides.” A Swedish song by
Sigred and Emma Pearson. Acrostic reci- 
tation by twenty little girls. A recitation
entitled “John Taylor” by ten little boys.
The Primary Throng by twelve girls. A
cane drill by twenty-five boys. Singing
“Merry, merry children sweetly sing.”
Prayer by H. G. Labrum Sen. The
admission was five cents each for both
young and old. The entertainment was
well attended, the proceeds were $6.75.
Six of the young ladies of Meadow assisted
us in getting up the program.
			ALICE J. DUNCAN. Sec’y.
SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARY.
	Minutes of Primary conference of the
Salt Lake Stake held Sep. 25, 1897, at the
Assembly Hall, President Camilla C. Cobb
presiding. On the stand with her were
her counselors, Lydia A. Wells and Mary
L. Morris, President. Zina D. H. Young
and others. Meeting opened by singing
“Gladly Meeting.” Prayer by Sister Emily
Hollings. Singing “Little children love
the Savior.’’ Roll called with thirty-one
associations repreaented, the children re-
sponding with sentiments. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke to
the children for a short time. She said she
felt to welcome them to the meeting, it
filled her heart with joy to see them. Re-
lated a story about Joseph Smith hearing
some children praying for him when he was
in danger. He said he knew the Lord


would hear their prayers and his life would
be preserved. She told the children
to never forget their prayers and God would
bless them. She said she had been a
Latter-day Saint for sixty-one years, and
thanked her Heavenly Father for preserv-
ing her life to the present time.
	Clarence Openshaw, from the 16th Ward
gave a recitation. A motion song was
rendered by a number of little girls from
the 11th Ward. Frank Buckwater from
the 3rd ward gave a sketch from the Book
of Mormon. “Hail to the Prophet” was
sung by all the children. A sketch of
early pioneer life in Utah was given by
Ida Peck of Cannon ward. Song by Annie
Peterson of the 12th Ward. Recitation by
Ethel Snow from Draper. Song by Lizzie
Stringfellow from the same place. A drill
was very nicely rendered by ten little girls
from the 15th Ward, west branch associa-
tion. Recitation by Chloe Brown, from
East Draper. One of Eliza R. Snow’s
poems was recited by May Alder, from the
2nd Ward. Myrtle Bagley from the 10th
Ward gave a recitation. Duett by Della
Seddon and Luella Harold from the 5th
Ward.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder expressed her
pleasure in listening to the exercises, and to
see how beautifully the children were
being trained, and said it was a blessed work
to be engaged in. The children would
always remember their Primary teachers.
Announced that the 2nd Ward would have
a Fair during the week and invited all to
visit it.
	Sister Lula G. Richards of the General
board, spoke in regard to Sister Roger’s
book, said she was the founder of the
Primary and hoped they would assist in
publishing her book.
	President Cobb made some closing re-
marks. After singing “In our lovely
Deseret,” benediction was pronounced by
Counselor Joseph E. Taylor.  
					E. W. HYDE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	TWENTY-FIVE Bulgarian women are
studying medicine at the Faculty of Nancy
in France. 
	“WHEN the Women’s College in Luck-
now is finished, it will be the finest educa-
tional building in India.”
	THE campaign in South Dakota was be-
gun in October, with a series of two-day
county conventions, under the auspices of
the National Organization Committee, to be
held in the most important counties.
	MRS. ANNIE M. MACLEAN, a graduate,
of Acadia University, Nova Scotia, took
the degree of Master of Philosophy at the
University of Chicago in July. Miss Mc-
Lean is the first Canadian woman to take a
higher degree from this university. Her
thesis was on ‘‘Factory Legislation for Wo-
men in the United States.”
	A MEDALLION of Miss Anthony, prepared
by the Rochester Club, is nine inches in
diameter, made of delicately-tinted plaster.
The reproduction is excellent, the feature's
clear and accurate, and the medallion an
ornament that would adorn any home.
They may be obtained for $1.50, express
paid, of Mrs. F. N. West, 9 Averil-Place,
Rochester, N. Y.


THE sudden death of Mary Kyle Dallas
of New York, about three weeks ago, was a
shock and a sorrow to a host of friends and
admirers. For many years she was a con-
tributor to the New York Ledger at a large
salary, and also wrote short stories for
Lippincott. Latterly her work has been 
seen in the daily papers, and her essays on
women for the American Press Association
commanded wide attention. Mrs. Dallas
was a member of Sorosis, the vice-presi-
dent of the Woman’s Press Club, and a
prominent member of the “Hidden Hand
Club,” whose purpose is to expose the fake
advertisements which prove a snare and a
delusion to unsuspecting women. Mrs.
Dallas was tall with a beautiful, aristocratic
face and stately bearing, while her manners
were so gracious and her acts so kindly that
she endeared herself to all who knew her.
She was fifty years of age, and began to
write at the age of eight, when she com-
posed a play that was produced in her
father’s kitchen. In 1888 she estimated
that she had written and sold at least eight
thousand stories and as many sketches.


UTAH CHARITY KINDERGARTEN.

	THE entertainment to be given at the
Theatre tonight, Oct. 15, is to be one of
the most unique affairs ever given by the
children of this city. Miss May Earle has
been indefatigable in her labor to make it
a success, and Mrs. H. S. Young the presi-
dent of-the association, and her co-workers
have worked incessantly to secure every
possible advantage to make it telling and
effective. Mrs. Kate Bridewell Anderson
has rendered valuable assistance, and the
little people who are to appear in the oper-
ratta (The Rebellion of the Daisies) have ex-
quisite costumes. The parents of the Child-
ren who are taking part have spared no
pains, trouble or expense to aid in this
charitable enterprise. If the generous pub-
lic will manifest their interest in this philan-
thropic movement to educate the little ones
by patronizing the entertainment on the two
occasions, tonight and Saturday Matinee,
they will be more than repaid in seeing this
new and novel opera. Prof. H. S. God-
dard has kindly consented to apppar for
sweet charity’s sake.


MISS LOMBROSO, the daughter of the
Italian professor has written a volume, the
title of which is “On the Happiness of
Women.”
	THE annual business meeting of the
U. F. W. C. will be held in the parlors of
the Congregational Church, Saturday morn-
ing October 23, at ten o’clock. Election of
officers, amendments to the constitution and
other matters of business will be transacted.


[Column 1]
Midwifery Classes.
	Dr. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Mrs Kate Bridewell Anderson,
	Formerly of New Orleans, and re-
cently of Ogden, has opened a vocal
Studio in Unity Hall, 28 W. Third 
South. Operatic repertoire a special-
ty. Hours from 10 until 2 p.m, ex-
cept Wednesdays and Saturdays.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP’S SCHOOL.
	The Winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP’S School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ities for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address		ELLIS R. SHIPP.

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORAL LINE

[to the right of the logo]
The
People’s
Favorite

Trains leave and arrive Salt L[-]ke City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicago,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City			7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mall,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver							6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City				3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mall,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver					0 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLVER W. MINK,
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
						Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent. 

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.
		   
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1 & 15, 1897.	NOS 11--12.


CONTENTS:
	The Queen’s Thanks to Her People. Dr. Bar-
ney’s Travels in Colorado—Dr. Elvira S. Barney
W. H. P. S.—Julia S. Woolley, Sec. Program of
Woman’s Congress. Reflections of a Pioneer—
Zion’s Convert Notes and News. Relief Soci-
ety Conference—E. B. Wells. R. S. Reports. In
Memoriam. Prenatal Influence—Ida Lowry Allen.
	EDITORIAL:—The Late Election. Editorial
Notes
	POETRY:—A Nocturne to Rubinstein—Helen
Gray Cone. Two Kinds of People—Ella Wheeler
Wilcox. Birthday Anniversary—Nellie.


[Column 1]
A NOCTURNE OF RUBINSTEIN.
SELECTED.
I.
WHAT now remains, what now remains but night?
Night hopeless, since the moon is in her grave!
	Late came a glorious light
In one wide flood on spire and field and wave.
	It found a flowing way
To secret places where the dead leaves lay;
	It won the half-hid stream
To shy remembrance of her morning gleam; 
	Then on the sky’s sharp shore
Rolled back, a fading tide, and was no more.
No more on spire and ivied window bright!
	No more on field and wave! 
What now remains, what now remains but night? 
Night hopeless, since the moon is in her grave!

II.
	Dumb waits the dim, broad land,
Like one who hears, yet cannot understand,
	Tidings of grief to come.
The woods and waters, with the winds, are dumb,
	But now a breeze has found
Sorrowful voice, and sobs along the ground:
“Oh the lost light, the last, the best lost light!
	No more on field and wave!”
What now remains, what now remains but night
Night hopeless, since the moon is in her grave!

III.
	Hark, how the wind outswells,
Tempting the woods dark heart till he rebels,
	And shaking his black hair,
Lifts up a cry of passion and despair!
	The groaning branches chafe
Till scarce the small, hushed singing-birds are safe,
	Tossed rocking in the nest,
Like gentle memories in a stormy breast.
A shudder, as good angels passed in flight,
	Trills over field and wave!
What now remains what now remains but night?
Night hopeless, since the moon is in her grave.

IV.
	There falls a mighty hush:
And forth from far recesses fern-scents rush,
	Faint as a waft from years
Long past; they touch in heaven the springs of
	tears.
	In great drops slow and warm,
Breaks all at once the spirit of the storm.
What now remains what now remains but night?
Night grieving, while the moon is in her grave!

V.
Behold! the rain is over: on the wave

[Column 2]
	A new, a flashing light!
	Lo, she arises calm.
The pale, the patient moon, and pours like balm
	Through the wet wood’s wrecked aisle
Her own unutterably tender smile!

There is no calm like that when storm is done;
There is no pleasure keen as pains release;
There is no joy that lies so deep as peace,
No peace so deep as that by struggle won.

Naught now remains, naught now remains but
	night―
Night peaceful, with the moon on field and wave!
				HELEN GRAY CONE.


THE QUEEN’S THANKS TO HER
PEOPLE.

	Her Majesty addressed to her people all
over the world, through the medium of
the Home Secretary, the following expres-
sion of personal gratitude for the sponta-
neous manifestation of loyalty and affection
that marked her progress on June 22, and
which have come to her from all parts of
the world on this great occasion:—
	WINDSOR CASTLE, July 15, 1897.
	“I have frequently expressed my person-
al feelings to my people, and though on
this memorable occasion there have been
many official expressions of my deep sense
of the unbounded loyalty evinced, I cannot
rest satisfied without personally giving
utterance to these sentiments.
	“It is difficult for me on this occasion to
say how truly touched and grateful I am
for the spontaneous outburst of loyal attach-
ment and real affection which I have exper-
enced on the completion of the Sixtieth
year of my Reign.
	“During my progress through London
on June 22, this great enthusiasm was
shown in the most striking manner, and
can never be effaced from my heart.
	"It is indeed deeply gratifying, after so
many years of labor and anxiety for the
good of my beloved country, to find that
my exertions have been appreciated
throughout my vast Empire.
	“In weal and woe I have ever had the
true sympathy of all my people, which has
been warmly reciprocated by myself.
	“It has given me unbounded pleasure to
see so many of my subjects from all parts
of the world assembled here, and to find
them joining in the acclamations of loyal
devotion to myself, and I would wish to
thank them all from the depth of my grate-
ful heart.
	“I shall ever pray God to bless them and
to enable me still to discharge my duties for
their welfare as long as life lasts.
	“VICTORIA, R. I.”
—Englishwoman’s Review.


NOT only are women taking an increas-
ingly active interest in municipal matters,
but their activity is almost all in favor of
better conditions and greater cleanliness,
literal and metaphorical.		A. S. B.


DR. BARNEY’S TRAVELS IN
COLORADO.

	WEDNESDAY, July 28, early in the fore-
noon I left Salt Lake City in company with
my brother, Carlos Stevens, and nephew,
Walter C. Howell, we arrived Thursday 29
at Hooper, Colorado, after riding five and a
half miles by team, came to the residence of
the family of Mrs. Brown, my niece, after
a happy greeting retired to rest for the
night.
	The few following days were fully occu-
pied in considering the many unwritten
chapters of our lives and in anticipation of
some of the coming events, and in viewing
of the large fields of 160 to 320 acres now
being harvested, mostly of oats and wheat
six and eight feet high, yielding from
twenty-five to forty bushels per acre. This
valley I visited two years ago, and the re-
sult of that visit has brought a very happy-
fying reflection, even to the probability of
others of my kindred immigrating. August
7, left in company with my brother and
after traveling thirty miles to Monte Vista,
Rio Grande Co., staid over night with my
nephew, B. F. Stevens. Then after a long
day ’s travel over a very stony ridge of about
thirty miles, arrived at Richmond, haying
passed Lajara (pronounced Lahara, a small
town situated on the railroad) here we were
kindly entertained over night by Bishop
Coombs. The rough road necessitated our
having a couple of shoes put on our horse
which the Bishop did himself. Then after
traveling six miles further arrived at Man-
assa, stopping at President Alma R. Smith’s
(son of Silas) found Apostle John W.
Taylor seated in council with a company of
Elders who were reporting their visits and
receiving additional daily appointments he
took me by the arm and introduced the to
them as one of the best sisters in the Church.
I felt a little out of place with the prefix,
but like many other agreeable things it was
easily passed by, but this was supplement-
ed with a note signed by John W. Taylor
after arriving at Sister Haskell’s while eat-
ing dinner, that he wanted me to meet
promptly at 5:30 that day, Monday 9, as he
wanted to give me a mission. I replied, all
right, and at the stated time I was seated
with six other sisters of the place and
Elders, we received our appointments and
went to work. Having lost my notes I
shall have to depend upon my memory as
to dates and other matters. 
	Tues. 10, the Bishop gave a dinner to the
visiting sisters and Elders. Wednesday eve.
9th a company of carriages drove six miles
to Mountain View to a school house that
stood as a lone sentinel on the surrounding
plain. We were about the first to arrive,
at rather a late hour the house was filled
with all grades from grandfather to babe.
The speakers were in the following order:
Brothers Graham and Mann, myself, Sister
Haskell and John W. Taylor. We then
returned to Manassa at 12, midnight. 
	Thursday 12, did some visiting as per ap-
pointment. Then we, including seven car-
riages full, drove 20 miles to East Dale.
Held a meeting in the evening, perfect


[Column 1]
freedom prevailed. The speakers were 
Prof. Brimhall of Provo B. Y. Academy,
then Brother Taylor suggested that the
meeting be turned into a testimony meet-
ing. None responding I then felt to speak,
was blessed with a free flow of speech and
testimony. Then John W. Taylor address-
ed the Saints upon a variety of subjects,
and gave much good counsel pertaining to
the little Colony which was laboring under
difficulties and had succeeded in getting a
fine reservoir, but their surroundings were
yet quite rude with few comforts, while en-
deavoring to do the most important thing
first, viz., to bring under cultivation their
farming lands.
After the meeting had dismissed the com-
pany was still entertained by our quartett
and our Professor of the violin in a very
pleasing manner, a few songs and recita-
tions brought us to a late hour of the night.
The very cool mountain breeze gave ns,
through the chinkings of the house,
refreshing sleep. Winter clothing and bed-
ding seemed to be in demand in the middle
of August.
Friday 13,at 7 o’clock,I witnessed for the
first time the solemn and heavenly cere-
monies of the dedication of the ground for
the erection of a house of worship; with
prayer, singing and speeches, the company
forming a circle of less than one hundred in
number.
We then visited a house that ex-
hibited some nice specimens of pottery. The
lady seemed happy in making presents of
these specimens to some of the visiting
ladies. We then, on our way home, drove
upon the rim of the reservoir which showed
us the immense labor that had been done.
After another twenty miles ride we arrived
at Manassa very tired. After dinner we
again hitched up and drove ten miles to
Antonita, to fill an appointment in a large
new hall that had been freely given for a
meeting. It was filled to overflowing, even 
to the porch, sidewalks and standing on dry
goods boxes in the street. I here listened
to the most interesting and powerful ser-
mon I ever heard, the speakers were Prof.
Brimhall and John W. Taylor. They
divided their subjects and interspersed them
with songs of Zion by the Quartette, and
solos by Prof. White on the violin. The
meeting was a grand success. Sister Has-
kell and I were invited to stay all night but
returned to Manassa, arriving at 12,
midnight.
Saturday 14, drove to Sanford seven
miles, held a council meeting and did some
more visiting. Some of the brethren walk-
ed many miles. I staid all night with the
Bishop’s people, we were treated with every
attention that was in the people’s power
wherever we went.
Sunday 15, attended a conference both
fore and afternoon. The missionaries,
Elders Graham, the two Brothers Mann,
Grant, Ensign, White, Pres. Albert R.
Smith and John W. Taylor addressed the
Saints of several hundred, both fore and
afternoon. The spirit of the Lord was
wonderfully and powerfully poured out up-
on the young men, which must have added
great testimony of the power of God to
some of the weak as well as the strong. To
me it seemed as a “pentacostal” shower.
Their remarks were enriched by the
singing of the Quartette and music by the
Prof, of the violin the music was composed
by some of the Elders. Between meet-
ngs the brethren were required to fast and

[Column2]
hold a Priesthood meeting. In the inter-
im the brethren and sisters were either out
riding or walking, or filling their appoint-
ed visits to families or isolated individuals.
The most of our company returned to 
Manassa.
Monday, August 16, the most of our
group took dinner at Sister Haskell’s. At
1 o’clock several hundred people had ar-
rived by the running stream, and listened
to remarks by the Elders, after which
Apostle John W. Taylor went into the
water and baptized forty-seven souls, a few
of them were re-baptisms and two were for
their health. It seemed to me the most
solemn and impressive services I ever ex-
perienced. I thought of Jesus being bap-
tized in the Jordan by John, which after
was followed by His crucifixion, and of the
approach of His second coming in the near
future; and I questioned who will be pre-
pared for His coming ?
Tuesday 17, we took dinner in company
with a few at Brother Harrison’s. Here
Elder Taylor told me not to be in a hurry,
and he thought I ought to spend the rest of
my life among the people in a spiritual
capacity, and that I had done a good work
there; but here I must stop, as I presume
his encomiums were more interesting to me
than they can possibly be to others. Brother
Taylor is very kind and unassuming with
his colaborers, but when officiating in his
office as a servant of God his words are ac-
companied with great power, and his testi-
mony seems to bring conviction to every
honest heart. Here I bade them good bye
and hurried on six miles to Sanford to fill
an appointment at 3 o’clock. As I arrived
the sisters were already assembled in the
hall, the seats were pretty well filled, they
numbered about ninety. The time occu-
pied by myself was about 12 hours, per-
fect order prevailed, and the spirit of peace,
harmony and rest was such that the many
babes were lulled to sleep, to the admira-
tion of all. A prophecy was made and ful-
filled before we left the house. The spirit
that seemed to prevail prompted a variety
of topics, then after the close of the meeting
the hearers gathered in front for additional
instruction and blessings, after which we
went home to comfort some of the sick in
their houses, after which I returned too
late for the evening meeting and retired
for the night at the Bishop’s.
Wednesday 18, about 4:30 o’clock I left
Sanford in company with Brother Peterson,
wife and child for Hooper, which lies al-
most due north forty-six miles, arriving
five and a half miles northwest of Hooper
station about 8 o’clock, passing on the way
the town of Alamosa. 
Your sister in the Covenant,
DR. ELVIRA S. BARNEY.


WOMANS EXPONENT


MRS. CYNTHIA WESTOVER ALDEN is
now editor of the woman’s department of
the New York Tribune, which is given an
entire page every day with three on Sun-
day, and employs a full staff of reporters,
artists and writers on special subjects, all of
them women.

	MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY attended the
celebration of the one hundredth birthday
anniversary of the lamented Samuel J. May
by the equal suffragists in Syracuse, N. Y.,
on Oct. 21, and started the same evening
for the meeting of the National Woman’s
Council at Nashville, Tenn.		—Ex.


W. H. P. S. 

	THE Woman’s Hygienic Physiological
Society met in the 14th Ward meeting
house Oct. 7, 1897. There was a good at-
tendance and the workers were very much
encouraged by the presence and remarks of
the brethren. President Angus M. Cannon,
President David Cannon, Bishop Keeler of
Provo, Brother Lucius Snow of Brigham
City, and many others were present. Each
of these brethren expressed themselves as
being pleased with the subjects treated,
they knew it would increase as it was truth.
	Sister Sorensen briefly explained the
work; she said the raising of children was
the most important part of her teaching,
that a woman must understand what is re-
quired of her as a mother, how to care for 
her body that she may bear the healthiest
and noblest of God’s children
	Sister Kirkham of Provo, treated the sub-
ject of “Child Training,” and said we must
be particular in the language we use to a
child and treat them as we wish to be
treated.
	Sister Salzner spoke of the necessity of
girls being prepared for marriage. Sister
Pine described a woman as a nurse in her
own home, what her qualifications should
be etc. Sister Eva Merril of Lehi read a
paper on “Round Dancing.” She said
we ought to obey the authorities of the
Church and not allow impure or immoral
men to be so familiarly associated with us,
such as are often met in the ball room.
Sister Allen prepared and read an essay on
“Prenatal Influence.”
		JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Asst. Sec.


PROGRAM OF WOMAN’S CONGRESS.

	THE Program for the 25th Congress of
the Association for the Advancement of
Women, to be held at Springfield, Mass.,
Nov. 1, 2 and 3, is as follows:
	“Reminiscences of A. A. W.,” Julia
Ward Howe.
	“Changing Social Problems,” Antoin-
ette B. Blackwell.
	"Avenues opened for Women in the last
Quarter Century,” Mary F. Eastman.
	“The Brain and the Hand,” Clara B.
Colby.
	“English Queens; Their Influence on
British Civilization," Mary Newbury Adams.
	“Child Study,” Frances Stuart Parker.
	“The Social Philosophy of Dante,” Ellen
M. Mitchell.
	“Influence of Women in Politics,” An-
toinette B. Kinney.
	“Mental Hygiene," Mary A. G. Dight,
M. D.
	Japanese Women,” Mabel Loomis Todd.
	“Red Cross Relief for Cuba,” J. Ellen
Foster, Advocate General of the Red Cross
Relief.
	Symposium: “New Departure in Philan-
thropy.”
	Symposium: “What Evidence or Hope
have we of Higher Moral Relations between
Nations?”


VEAL LOAF.
	Three and one half pounds of minced
veal (the leg is the best for this purpose)
three eggs well beaten, salt and pepper to
taste, four rolled crackers, butter the size
of an egg. Mix these together and, make
into a loaf, roast and baste like other
meat one hour.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TWO KINDS OF PEOPLE

	No, the two kinds of people on earth I mean,
Are the people who lift, and the people who lean. 

Wherever you go, you will find the world’s
	masses,
Are always divided in just these two classes.

And oddly enough, you will find, too, I ween,
There is only one lifter to twenty who lean.

In which class are you? Are you easing the load?
Of overtaxed lifters who toil down the road?

Or are you a leaner, who lets others bear
Your portion of labor and worry and care?
				ELLA WHEELER WILCOX


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
		SISTER ELIZABETH BROWER.

DEAR friend you say you are growing old,
	That today completes three score four years; 
Dost grieve? Nay rejoice, each milestone passed
	Counts thee one less in this vale of tears.

Has Time, with his hoary fingers, wrought
	Silvery threads ’mong thy darker hair,
Traced light'y faint lines, which year by year
	Will deepen to furrows, and dost thou care ?

Time laughs and mocks us at every change,
	From youth’s sweet spring e’en to wintry age,
Faded cheeks, dimmed vision, the stiffened limb;
	And kindred ills that fill up life’s page.

Let him laugh and enjoy his frolics,
	Shall not we at the end of life’s race,
Throw off this marred outer covering, when
	Lo, a soul which he cannot deface.

This immortal soul will never grow old,
	Age adds lustre instead of decay,
Our bodies of dust to dust return,
	Our spirits live and progress for aye.

Soon this school we call life will be o’er.
	All its sorrows and burdens laid down.
Our education on earth complete,
	And life’s cross exchanged for a crown.

And though our lessons today seem hard,
	Only by work can we reach the goal,
Only those who are tried come forth as gold,
	'Tis suff'ring that sanctifies the soul.

The uncut stone is of little worth,
	Tempered with care is the choicest steel;
So our lives are made the more sublime,
	By the tears we shed and the wo[-]s we feel.

Let Father “do what seemeth Him good;”
	As clay in the hands of the potter be, 
When moulded and fashioned fit for use,
	He’ll appoint thy place in eternity.

The discipline that each soul requires,
	Is meted out by a loving hand;
When fully developed, thy call will be,
	Daughter return to thy Fatherland.
								NELLIE.
	June 1, 1897.


[Column 1]
REFLECTIONS OF A PIONEER.

How often are we told that faith is a gift
of God. If so when was it given? My
faith has been from early childhood when
first taught to repeat my evening prayer,
which is simply this:
"Now I lay me down to sleep,I pray the Lord my
soul to ke[-]p,''
If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my
soul to take,
And this I ask for Jesus sake."
Surely impressions made in youth are
more lasting, the mind then being like a

[Column 2]
sheet of white paper and impressions are
clear, not confused.
A little later when I was at school our
Testament class would read immediately
after prayer. This was over seventy years
ago, but it was the custom in all our schools
in the state of New York.
In this book, the New Testament, we
find the Savior taught His disciples to pray
saying: “Our Father who art in heaven
hallowed be Thy name; Thy kingdom
come and Thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven” etc. How beautiful, is it not?
And would not this strengthen our faith?
Could we doubt there was a God in heaven
who could see us and hear our prayers?
Then how important that this impression be
made in childhood by precept and example,
for the Lord’s prayer was not made in vain.
Oh no, that time must and will come when
His will must be done on earth as it is in
heaven.
Then the question arises, How will this
time come and when will it come? Think
a moment. Do not we find in the Old
Testament in the book of Genesis that this
earth was made in seven days, and the
Lord finished His work on the seventh day
and rested? Did not the Prophet Moses
require the children of Israel to keep the
seventh day holy, and the seventh year was
a jubilee when freedom must be given to
any who were oppressed? If the seventh
year will bring such a jubilee, what will
seven thousand bring? I think the first
chapter in the Acts of the Apostles tells us
what we may expect at that time.
We read in the 1st chapter, beginning at
the 8th verse to the 12th: “Ye shall receive
power after the Holy Ghost is given unto
you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me un-
to the uttermost parts of the earth.
“And while speaking a cloud received
Him out of their sight, and while looking
steadfastly toward heaven as He went up,
behold two men stood by Him in white ap-
parel and said, ‘Ye men of Galilee why
stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same
Jesus which is taken up from you, shall
come in like manner as ye see Him go up’ "
Is not this testimony sufficient for us?
And when He comes will it not be in the
seventh thousand year, the Sabbath of crea-
tion, or in other words the Milleneum,
when He will come to reign King of kings,
and Lord of lords?
Now the question is will we be prepared
for this great event? The Prophet Joseph
Smith tells us that Jesus must find exactly
such a people here as those He brings with
Him. The same character, the same faith
and one with Him in all things. Now who
is sent to prepare the way for this great
event, can you tell me? Has any one or-
ganized a church exactly as the one which
Jesus built, with twelve apostles, elders,
priests and deacons, also seventies as you
read in Luke 10th chapter, 1st verse. “The
Lord appointed other seventies also and sent
them two. and two into every place where
He Himself would come.” In the 7th verse
we read: “The seventies returned with joy,
saying, Lord even the devils are subject to
us through Thy name.”
He then tells them what He saw and in the
20th verse He says: “Notwithstanding, in
this rejoice not that the spirits are subject to
you, but rather rejoice that your names are
written in heaven.”
He had gained the victory, they were
only obedient to His laws. Now is not this
a lesson to us to be obedient to His laws?

[Column 3]
for they are perfect and will perfect all who
give strict heed to them.
And He says: “Take my yoke upon
you and learn of me, for my yoke is easy
and my burden is light.” With His holy
spirit it is joyful and light also, but without
it, it would not be so I can assure you.
Please excuse me when I say that this
Pioneer feels an anxious desire that the
youth may see the Gospel in its own true
light, which when accomplished will fill
their souls with light and joy and peace, it
being the gift of the Holy Ghost, the Com-
forter. May we be fit temples for the in-
dwelling of this good spirit, for it must
have a pure heart to inhabit, it will not ac-
cept any other. This being the faith of the
Saints I hope the parents and guardians
may not lose sight of this important subject,
but teach the youth to grow in grace and a
knowledge of the truth.
These are the views of a pioneer, and of
all the Saints are they not? Then we will
be worthy to be called Saints. How desira-
ble. Let us not be weary in well doing for
in due time we shall reap if we faint not.

ZlONS CONVERT.
October, 1897.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	SINCE the statement about the poet sing-
er, James G. Clark, was made in the Tri-
bune of September 25, he has passed to the
land whose glories seemed very real to him
when he composed the immortal melody
for the hymn “When the Mists Have Rolled
Away.”						—Ex.
	THE District Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion has elected its ex-president, Mrs. Ellen
Powell Thompson, again as its leader, and
this insures an active and strong society for
this very important season when the great
celebration is to be held here and much im-
portant work is to be done.		Ex.—
	MRS MARIA FRINK, of Valparaiso, Ind.,
who writes under the nom de plume of
“Grace Gold,” thinks that the social re-
demption of the world wil be obtained not
by destroying the criminals and incapables,
but by putting out of existence the causes
which make them what they are—saloons,
gambling dens, immoral dives, obscene
pictures, impure literature—every thing
which tends to drag humanity downward.
	JUST before leaving the country last
month, Mr. W. L. Stead, the London edi-
tor, who some years ago exposed crimes
committed against young girls in his city,
was interviewed by a New York World re-
porter. Mr. Stead has reached the conclu-
sion that English women receive less of the
“small change of outward courtesy” than
do American women, but are given much
more solid and serious respect. In support
of his opinions he said:
	The English are not ashamed to place a wo-
man high above all their politicians, to keep her
there for sixty years, and to give her a direct and
potent voice in settling all the great affairs of
state, from dealing with which in the American
Republic women are debarred. You may say
the Queen is only a figurehead. If so she is
much the liveliest and most potent figurehead in
history. The chance of being such a figurehead
is denied by your Constitution and customs to
the ablest person of the states if she should chance
to be born a woman.				—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made tor clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1 & 15, 1897.


THE LATE ELECTION.

	So many stirring events have transpired
within the last few days that one is at a loss
to select from among them those most not-
able of record. The municipal election was
one worthy of attention and of serious con-
sideration; a new feature of the occasion
was the non-partisan movement made by
prominent citizens for the purpose of reform
in the city government. Great pains was
taken by leading citizens both men and wo-
men to disseminate information in regard to
the condition of affairs under party admin-
istration, and though the non-partisans did
not elect the entire ticket nominated, yet
the people had an object lesson that will be
servicable in time to come
	The outlook at any rate is more hopeful
than it would have been if no movement
for a reform in this regard had been made.
Better men have been selected possibly and
more thoughtfulness exercised in the mat-
ter of voting. The women of the city have
had another opportunity to exercise the
franchise, and when one is aware of the
large percentage of women voters in this
city it is very strange that neither of the
women nominees were elected. It is our
opinion that the women whose names were
on the tickets, Non-Partisan, Republican and
Democrati were as well qualified to fill the
offices as the men who were the contestants
and were elected. These women were all
reliable, conscientious and suitable as can-
didates.
	The officers for the city government for
the ensuing term are Mayor, John Clark, N.
P. Recorder, H. Backman, D. Trea-
surer, Richard P. Morris, D. Attorney, W.
C. Hall, D. Police Justice, J. B. Timmony,
D. Auditor, George Swan, N. P. Council-
men there were four Non-Partisans, three
Republicans and eight Democrats.
	This variety of parties is better necessa-
rily than if all were of one political faith,
and the men are very likely to watch each
other pretty close and with the educational
teaching recently given on the platform and
in various other ways public and private—
the community will be on the alert to see
how things go; they are not at all likely to
forget the warnings that have been given,
and they have suffered enough from mis-
management in the past to be on their
guard in the future against intrigue and
corruption in city affairs. At any rate we
should look on the bright side if possible,
and believing there is a strong and safe man
at the helm, trust he will set things right


and maintain such dignity as will keep
others in countenance, that the city may
look with pride upon its new officials.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	RECENTLY women have been serving as
jurors in the state of Idaho, and it is said they
were a success, the press correspondence says
much in their favor, we quote: “The wo-
men jurors in Idaho have made a good be-
ginning. They have demonstrated that
they know what substantial justice is. It
is said the “substantial justice” was at the
expense of precedent. It has always seemed
proper for women to act as jurors and in
Wyoming according to testimony of those
acquainted with the facts, women were suc-
cessful jurists as well as judges; and if there
why not elsewhere. At any rate it is de-
voutly to be hoped they would do as well or
better than in some recent cases in Utah
where men only were on the jury. Men
and women in almost every matter where
wisdom and good judgment are required
do the best work where both have equal
opportunity.
	AT the residence of Dr. C. F. Wilcox on
Thursday, October 26, a very pleasant
party of old friends and acquaintances met
together by invitation of Mrs. Wilcox and
passed an agreeable afternoon and evening.
The conversation was mostly reminiscent,
varied somewhat by current topics of the
day. The five o’clock tea was a delightful
part of the entertainment, delicious viands
served in the most appetizing style, and
withal the usual easy table-talk which
among such dear friends is exceptionally
wholesome. After tea there was some
music and a few words “fitly spoken” by
Sister Zina who expected to leave the city
soon on a visit to her daughter in Canada;
then the hymn “O My Father” was sung
and social chat indulged in for a short time.
The guests were Sisters Zina D. H. Young,
Sarah M. Kimball, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Mary Ellen Kimball, Maria Burton, Mar-
garet P. Young, Margaret Y. Taylor,
Maria W. Wilcox, Elizabeth J. Stevenson,
Lucy W. Kimball, E. B. Wells and Elder
Ezra Stevenson. These with the young 
Doctor and his amiable wife made fourteen
at table instead of the superstitious thirteen.
The party was in every respect a success
except for the absent ones who had been
expected, Sisters M. I. Horne, J. C. Howe
and Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Such delightful
occasions cement the bonds of love and
sympathy and make us feel to do as Shake-
speare has so truly said—
“The fri[-]nds thou hast, and their adoption tried
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel.”
	AN anniversary meeting of the Relief
Society of Lehi was held on Monday Oct.
24, in the hall of the Society, Mrs. Rebecca
Standring presiding. The president, after
the opening exercises, referred briefly to
the work of the Society since its organiza-
tion and the results numerically, financially,
charitable and spiritual. The Society was
organized twenty-nine years ago, and at
that time there were in all nineteen mem-
bers enrolled including the five officers, and
during the time which has elapsed since the
number has increased to over three hun-
dred; then they had a few carpet rags and
patches for quilts, now they own a very
nice, comfortable hall and two granaries,
also hundreds of bushels of grain and much

[Column 2]
other merchandise, have on hand some
cash and sundries etc. The labor of cloth-
ing and feeding the needy, and caring for
the sick and dying, and doing all kinds of
charitable work, comforting the mourner
and those bowed down with sorrow, and all
that is included in being a help in every
time of need, all these the good sisters of
Lehi have done and have never failed.
The growth and development of members
of the Society in the intellectual progress
cannot be over-estimated, and the advan-
tages and benefits afforded to women who
labor in this Society are not appreciated
nor can they be until one is fully initiated
in the work practically. President Mary
John of Utah Stake, and her counselor,
Marilla Daniels, were in Lehi to attend the
meeting and also the writer from Salt Lake
City. Many subjects of interest were spok-
en upon and Bishop Cutler gave good coun-
sel and encouragement to the sisters, dwell-
ing emphatically upon home industries,
and giving some potent facts. The remarks
of President John and President Standring,
also Sister Daniels and others were stimu-
lating and inspiring, and Sisters H. Jacobs
and Jones who had recently returned from
visiting in England and Wales each gave a
sketch of her experience while away which
was very interesting. There were two
meetings, morning and afternoon, and
much good instruction was given that can-
not fail to help the work along. Sister
Melissa Willis, a veteran in the Church and
in the Society was present in the afternoon
and bore a strong testimony. The Society
in Lehi is not a whit behind any other and
is in a very prosperous condition. We feel
to congratulate Sister Standring, the very
able president, on her labors and the success
attending them, and the entire band of sis-
ters united in the grand and noble work of
caring for the meek and humble of the
earth.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE October general conference of the
Relief Society was held in the large Taber-
nacle in this city October 7, commencing
at 10 a. m., Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presid-
ing. Of the general officers present there
were besides the president, Jane S. Rich-
ards, Bathsheba W. Smith, Counselors; E.
B. Wells, R. B. Pratt, secretaries; M. I.
Horne, treasurer. Quite a number of presi-
dents of the Relief Society Stake organiza-
tions were present and a fair-sized congrega-
tion. Meeting opened by singing “We
thank Thee O God for a Prophet.” Prayer
by Elder Lucius A. Snow. Singing “O My
Father. Roll called, 22 presidents and
representatives present. Minutes of April
conference read and approved.
	President Z. D. H. Young spoke a few
minutes and welcomed the sisters affection-
ately; told the sisters she loved them as
well as she was capable of loving, and ap-
preciated their labors and works of charity
and love. She remembered very well when
President Young first spoke of building the
Tabernacle in which we were holding con-
ference, heard him talk with the brethren
about it and tell them his plans. She also
referred to his putting his cane down into
the ground and saying here is the very spot
where the Temple and Tabernacle will be
built. Sister Young also described some of
her feelings when she entered into the or-
der of celestial marriage, felt that she was
renouncing the world and laying her all up


[Column 1]
on the altar, sacrificing everything. Felt
now that the Lord had blest her abundantly
for the course she took. She bore a strong
testimony to the truth of the Gospel and
the mission of Joseph the prophet; and
added that she felt happy in seeing the faces
of the sisters gathered in the conference.
	President Julia P. Lindsey, of Bear Lake
Stake, made a good representation. She had
felt as if they were a little behind, but since
coming and hearing from other places
thought differently. She with some of her
board had visited once a year around the
Stake and some of the nearer branches
oftener, they had long distances to travel
in visiting. Reported that they were saving
up money for a reserve fund, she enjoyed
her labors, never enjoyed anything so much
	President Emma J. Bennett, of Bingham
Stake, said the Relief Society presidency
were always invited to go around the Stake
with the presiding brethren, they went in
wagons and by train. Felt there was no
greater work than the one we are engaged
in, and spoke of the laying up of grain—
they had 1800 bushels now and expected to
have more this harvest. Knew the sisters
had been blest in the work of the Society,
and felt happy in her labors.
	President Temperance Hinckley, Bannock
Stake, reported all in good condition. They
had one new branch organized recently in
Anaconda, Montana. They had to travel a
distance of 600 miles around in visiting the
branches, “and we go once a year always
and do all we possibly can to encourage the
sisters and promote union and good feeling,
we have a good band of willing and faithful
sisters.”
	President Elizabeth Fox, Oneida Stake,
said she had not been very well but felt im-
proved in health since she came down to
the General Conference, believed it was a
little relaxation to get away from cares.
Spoke upon the grain question and of the
organization in Baker City, Oregon. Bore
a good testimony of the Gospel and alluded
to her experiences in the Church.
	President Kittie E. Dixon, of Star Valley
Stake, reported all the branches in compara-
tively good condition, all feeling well in the
work and enjoying a good spirit; she felt
the work was progressing and the sisters
making the best use of their opportunities.
They had to travel fifty and sixty miles to
visit but were always welcomed and
enjoyed seeing the sisters.
	President Mabel A. Hakes, of Maricopa
Stake, gave a good report, said the sisters
had assisted in building the Stake Taber-
nacle and furnishing it, and had bought a
silver sacramental service. She thought
we would laugh if we knew how they tried
to store grain in five gallon tin cans, related
some of their experiences. An Indian sis-
ter had admonished them that to pray more
in time of sickness and have more faith
would lessen the sickness, and give them
more time to go to meeting; but after the
death of her child she felt to rebel and said
she didn’t know as she cared for the Lord.
The Indians preserve wheat in baskets and
cement it over, there are 1300 Indians in
Maricopa Stake and only 1800 white people.
	President Mary B. Eyring, of Juarez
Stake, Mexico, made an excellent represen-
tation felt the sisters improved in a tem-
poral way, there were not many who had
to be provided for, and they had the neces-
saries of life if they had not the luxuries.
Sister Eyring talked about silk culture in a
very practical way, they have a fine cli-

[Column 2]
mate, never so hot or so cold as St. George,
and they had peace, great peace. One
Mexican woman among them could speak
good English, yet she did not say they im-
proved as Sister Hakes had said of Marico-
pa. They are polite and always say good
morning etc., and never go out of the house
without speaking; the sisters hold meetings
twice a month, a certain few attend and
the others take it easy.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp felt it a great honor
to speak to the sisters who had come from a
distance, was glad to hear their remarks.
Dwelt principally upon nursing and mid-
wifery, thought there were not sisters well
trained in some branches in the settlements
of Zion, hoped the sisters would take the
matter under advisement and see to it that
a sufficient number were trained in these
things, that the sick need not suffer for
suitable help. Spoke of the sick children
and advised simple remedies.
	President Jane S. Richards followed Dr.
Shipp and related some of her experiences
with children. She had enjoyed hearing
from far-off places, thought when we heard
of sisters visiting to such distant localities it
was a testimony to us of the truth of the
work in which we are engaged; she believed
in making work for those who needed help
and were able to work, it would keep them
from evil, urged the sisters to take better care
of their girls, also to teach their sons as
well as their daughters to come up by de-
grees and arrive at a higher point in time,
not go ahead too fast. Sister Young had
given her a text to speak upon but felt it
was too late. There may be boys and girls
who would take places to work and earn
means, instead of having it given to them.
“I am a friend to poor people, and we all
know they are to inherit the kingdom.” Re-
lated some incidents in reference to getting
employment for boys, spoke of our all
coming to this valley poor and having to
work for what we obtained. Sister Rich-
ards blest the sisters and asked the Lord to
bless them in the name of Jesus. Singing
Doxology. Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.
Benediction by Sister B. W. Smith. 
	AFTERNOON SESSION: President Zina
D. H. Young presiding. Singing “Now
let us rejoice,” etc. Prayer by President
Susan Grant. President Sarah M. Kimball
was the first speaker, she prayed that some-
thing might be said beneficial to the Soci-
ety, and remarked that a president of one of
the Stakes of Zion had said we were raising
a set of tramps, wondered how far the Re-
lief Society was responsible for these things.
She recalled that the first thing the first
president of the Society, Sister Emma
Smith, did, and Joseph’s instructions to the
Society were to find employment for the
poor who had to be kept by the Society.
“There will come a time when we shall be
brought nearer to each other in this respect
than we are now.” She sometimes thought
of Heber C. Kimball when he said, “If the
Lord could afford it he could.” Sister Kim-
ball had been very much exercised upon
this matter and felt it was a serious one,
and should be dealt with in a practical way
by which habits of industry would be
taught and practised.
	Counselor B. W. Smith was glad to see
so many present and had been pleased with
the reports in the morning session, thought
the Society had grown and become very
great when everywhere that there are Lat-
ter-day Saints we can have an organization

[Column 3]
of the Society. Thought that we had al-
ways tried to devise means for those who
needed help and were able to work and
earn something for themselves. Felt that
we were training ourselves to live perfect
and to purify ourselves so as to be prepared
for the millennium; knew that the poor
were the ones who paid tithing urged the
sisters to do the duties nearest and to im-
prove in every good thing, and not to neg-
lect their Temple work.
	President M. Isabella Horne felt we had
had a most enjoyable conference, spoke of
the long distance some had traveled to at-
tend conference, two thousand miles; stated
that it was fifty-five years last March since
the sisters were organized, now we were
known in almost every land. Speaking of
the large number of poor to be provided
for she mentioned that in some wards there
were as many as two hundred dependent or
pratically so, some there were one hundred, in
others fifty; those who live in the country
do not know how hard it is for us to take
care of so many dependent upon charity.
Bishops and brethren in the country have
so much to do and are not able to get suf-
ficient help; if some of those in the city who
need work would go out into the country
and get work instead of living off other peo-
ple it would be better all around. She felt
most of the branches in Salt Lake Stake
were doing very well and were stirred up to
their duties in saving grain, referred to the
conditions in the world and bore testimony
concerning Joseph the prophet and the Lat-
ter-day work.
	President Sarah Pope, Uintah Stake, said
it was her first visit to the city in eight
years: had enjoyed the time very much, in
the Stake where she presided they had two
conferences in a year and traveled around
twice a year, they had eleven hundred
bushels of grain and two granaries and in-
tended building more; the branches in
Uintah were very scattering, they had to
travel a hundred and sixty five miles to
visit; rejoiced in the spirit of the work and
felt to press on and try to encourage others.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt testified that she felt edi-
fied and built up in attending the General
conference and also in the Relief Society
conference. The Society had been a great
blessing as well as a great labor, felt we
should use every effort possible in the way
of progress. Urged the young sisters to
study and become acquainted with their
own organism and the general principle of
hygiene, it would make every woman a
greater blessing to herself, to her fam-
ily and to the community, and she would
be able to do more good in all places; felt as
a people we should advocate these things
more, that no ward or settlement should be
without efficient nurses and educated pract-
tioners, that much suffering might be saved.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon silk cul-
ture as employment for those who needed
to be helped, the practical adaptation of it in
our climate, the results already achieved, also
spoke of sustaining our own home literature
and especially the need we had for making
our own representation in this way, men-
tioned other matters and dwelt earnestly
upon the need of younger women interest-
ing themselves in charitable and philan-
thropic labors.
	President E. S. Taylor spoke very forci-
bly upon the need of the sisters sustaining
the “Exponent,” made some definite points
in favor of the paper and the wide field
there was for home literature of this kind,


realized that it had been a blessing in many
ways, made other excellent remarks and
bore a good testimony of the labors of the
sisters in the Relief Society.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of the
“Exponent,” the need of the sisters sus-
taining it and urged them to subscribe.
Spoke of Joseph’s teachings to the Society,
his prophecy with regard to the great work
the sisters would do and felt his words were
being fulfilled now. Blest the sisters as-
sembled and felt they would go home
stronger spiritually and be able to administer
in their own wards to the sisters, and grow
wiser and better.
	Elder L. John Nuttall exhorted the sis-
ters to make some exertion in reference to
employment and referred to the bnreau of
labor established ih this city at the April
conference, said our condition is much bet-
ter now; Bishop Preston has charge of this
business and is prepared to find employ-
ment. Spoke also of the “Exponent” and
urged the sisters to do as much as possible
to sustain it, made some definite suggestions
for their action in the matter. Brother
Nuttall referred to the course of instruction
to secretaries in keeping their books that
was decided upon at the conference in April,
thought, that the officers of the Stake
should make arrangements to have all the
several branch officers assemble in some
two or three places in the Stake and get the
necessary information that there might be a
uniform system in the matter of book keep-
ing, then we would be prepared at any time
to have our books examined. Brother Nut-
tall was willing to give the needful instruc-
tion, and to travel in any of the Stakes with
the president when arrangements could be
made; spoke of the grain and that the priest-
hood were with the sisters in this matter,
and the wheat was not to be interfered with
but left until needed.
	President Jane S. Richards stated briefly
the word she had received from the Presi-
dency in regard to changing old wheat for
new, and getting interest on it because it
would shrink. Bishop Hunter had said if it
were well taken care of it would keep many
years. Sister Richards dwelt upon charity
and kindness to the poor and to each other,
felt there was much to make us sorrowful
and we needed kind words, and to be for-
giving to each other. We should pray for
Sister Zina, we want her to be strong; also
explained about the book keeping. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Conference adjourned un-
til April. Benediction by Sister M. I.
Horne.
			E. B. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Sanpete Stake Relief
Society conference held at Gunnison, Sep.
10, 1897, Prest. M. A. Hyde presiding.
Singing “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers.” Prayer by Bishop C. A. Mad-
sen. Singing “O my Father” etc. Min-
utes of previous conference read and approved
	Prest. M. A. Hyde made opening re-
marks. The different branches of the Re-
lief Society were represented as follows,
according to the roll call: Ephraim North
Ward, Prest. Benedicta Hansen; Ephraim
South Ward, Prest. Ellen Dorius; Foun-
tain Green, Prest. Polly A. Johnson; Fay-
ette, Prest. Eliza Bartholomew; Gunnison,
Prest. Helena Madsen; Mt. Pleasant and

[Column 2]
Wales by letters to Stake Counselor A. L.
Cox; Manti North Ward, Stake Counselor
Abigail Shoemaker; Manti South Ward,
Prest. Esther Anderson; Mayfield, Prest.
Matilda Olsen; Spring City, Counselor
Nancy Acord; Sterling, Counselor Johan-
na Anderson; Fairview, Milburn and
Indianola not represented.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde felt thankful to hear
such favorable reports and to see so many
present. Noted the signs of the times, and
spoke of the large number of missionaries
being sent to the nations as having peculiar 
significance. She was pleased to see the
spirit of kindness and charity that was exist-
ing among the sisters of the Stake.
	Prest. M. I. Horne of Salt Lake City,
expressed herself as being delighted with
the favorable reports from the various wards.
Said the mission of the Relief Society was
not alone to administer to the wants of the
needy, but to save souls and to build each
other up in the faith. Urged the sisters to
exhort their husbands to good works and to
be kind to them. Said that like the Apos-
tle Paul she had nothing new to tell, but
she thought it profitable that we have our
minds stirred up by way of remembrance;
also considered it very necessary that we
attended our meetings in order to make a
good record, for we are told in Holy Writ
that we are to be judged out of the books.
	Singing “Now let us rejoice.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop Andrew Heldtsedt.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing “How
firm a foundation.” Stake Counselor
Abigail Shoemaker was the first speaker.
Said we were here to make a record for our-
selves and hoped we would be more dili-
gent. Referred to the beautiful harvest
and the necessity of storing grain especially
now that many of the inhabitants of the
earth are threatened with famine. Thank-
ed the sisters for their ready response to the
call for carpet for the Temple.
	Stake Counselor Lizzie B. Allred, of the
Primary organization, reported the work in
her field of labor. Said the officers desired
a larger attendance, and felt that the occa-
sional presence of the mothers would en-
courage both those presiding and the chil-
dren.
	Stake Counselor A. L Cox hoped that the
sisters would be more diligent in attending
the meetings of the Society, and that they
would strive earnestly to overcome their
timidity that they might arise and bear tes-
timony. Referred to the signs of the times
and the necessity of being continually on
our guard to resist the wiles of the adver-
sary. Besought the mothers to gain the
confidence of their sons as well as their
daughters, and strive to impress upon them
the necessity of keeping the commandments
and living their religion; and that having a
good time should be in doing the will of
the Father.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde spoke of timidity, but
said also that we are not heard for our
much speaking but by the spirit which
prompts our words. Said the young should
not be educated that they will feel ashamed
of honest labor. Said that God and knowl-
edge combined in doing the work of the
Lord would be productive of much good.
	Sister M. I. Horne was much interested
in the subject of storing grain, as it is a
mission that has been placed upon the sis-
ters, and hoped the sisters of this Stake
would be diligent in performing this duty.
Spoke of the children, said “they are the
hope of Israel,” and urged the mothers to

[Column 3]
teach them obedience to proper authority
and to have them baptized when eight years
old, lest the Lord hold us accountable for
our neglect. Said woman’s highest mission
was to be a mother, and eulogized the ideal
home where love and unity prevail. Re-
lated some of her recollections of the Pro-
phet Joseph. Said he was childlike in
demeanor, but was a lion to evil-doers.
Called attention to the fulfillment of his
prophecies, and also the prediction of Prest.
Woodruff at the dedication of the Salt Lake
Temple. She was interested in the signs
of the times and in the progress of woman’s
work.
	Prest. Nancy Acord felt the good influ-
ence of the meeting and realized the benefits
of the sisters conference. Thought if we
knew each other better we should love each
other more.
	Bishop C. A. Madsen testified to the good
spirit prevailing in the meeting. Invoked
the blessing of Heaven upon the sisters,
that their good works might continue, in-
crease and multiply.
	Bishop Andrew Heldtsedt of the new ward
of Centerfield had been much strengthened
by the testimonies and good words of the
sisters. Testified that in his experience the
more we had to do in forwarding the work,
the more joy and contentment we have.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing “Guide us O Thou Great Jeho-
vah.” Benediction by Elder Austin
Kearns.

	On Saturday morning a branch of the
Relief Society was organized in the new
ward of Centerfield, formerly known as
Gunnison Field, with Sister Hyams as
president. On Saturday afternoon a very
interesting meeting was held in Manti. The
speakers were Sisters Hyde and Horne,
Sister Johnson of Fountain Green, and also
Prest. Maiben and Prest. McAllister.
			A. L. Cox, Act. Cor. Sec.
SUMMIT STAKE.
	MINUTES of the semi-annual conference
of Summit Stake Relief Society held in
Peoa schoolhouse, Sep. 7, 1897, President
Mary J. Atwood presiding. Meeting was
opened by singing “We thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.” Prayer by Bishop Stephen
Walker. Singing from Sunday School
Hymn book. Present on the stand were
Counselors Ann Cluff and Ruth M. Pack,
President W. W. Cluff of the Stake and
Counselor Edmond Eldredge, several
Bishops and others. Minutes of conference
held at Hoytsville read and accepted; roll
called and six presidents and one counselor
responded. Verbal reports of the seven
branches given as in good condition, hold-
ing their religious meetings regularly once
a month, performing all duties pertaining
to the Relief Society in general with a good
spirit manifest.
	Counselor Ruth M. Pack said “This is a
good place to sit and think over the past
few weeks of our lives and see how we
stand, and to think of the Prophet Joseph,
the great work he laid the foundation for,
the Gospel of Jesus Christ, this is what has
brought us here to the valleys of the moun-
tains. We have passed through many
trials. I remember while camped on Sugar
Creek there were nine children born in one
night. The ground was covered with
snow and it was very cold, there was great
suffering but the Lord watched over his
people.”


[Column 2]
	President Mary J. Atwood said she was
pleased to see so many of the brethren
present also President Cluff, she liked to
hear the presidents report the different
branches, we know what kind of a spirit
they manifest and how they feel. She
thought it a good thing to hold our confer-
ences in different wards, it gave many a
chance to attend that could not otherwise
do so and encouraged them to good works.
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson of Salt Lake 
City said she had learned to do. as she was
told. “Sisters Zina Young and Emmeline
B. Wells send kindly greetings to you sis-
ters in this conference today. They have a
desire for your welfare. The Prophet
Joseph organized this Society himself after
the pattern of the Holy Priesthood. I say
to my young brothers and sisters live hon
est, virtuous lives while you are raising
your families, that they may be noble sons
and daughters. Teach them true princi-
ples, call your children together and bow
down with them in prayer and call down
the rich blessings of the Lord upon you.
For fifteen years I was a teacher in the
Relief Society, I would go humble and
prayerful and talk to the sisters. I am
pleased to see so many young sisters present,
come with your mothers, help them visit
the sick, read to them and cheer them,
your young faces will do them good. We
want the sisters to save up all the wheat
they can, we want you to be earnest in this
matter. I hope the spirit of your calling
may rest upon you.”
	President Mary J. Atwood said she was
pleased with Sister Stevenson’s remarks,
let us improve by them. We all want good
boys, let us teach them to be virtuous and
respect themselves. If they have the
Priesthood conferred upon them they should
be pure and virtuous men.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
Singing “Glorious things o’ thee are
spoken.” Benediction by Bishop Wright.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened 
by singing “Stars of morning” Prayer
by Willet S. Ha[-]der. Singing “Now let
us rejoice” etc.
	Counselor Ann Cluff said she was pleased
to meet with her sisters and was pleased
with the advice given to the teachers. We
should all be willing to give of our means
to the Society. If the fathers would help
teach our sons the principles of the Gospel
we might have many more bright young
men. “You cannot do better than send
your children to the Church schools that
they may be fitted to fill responsible posi-
tions and be taught true principles. I ask
the Lord to bless us all.”
	The Stake officers of the Relief Society
were sustained, the vote being unanimous.
The officers of the various branches as they
now stand were sustained unanimously.
Sister Stevenson spoke a short time. She
said: “Our salvation is individual, we each
have to work for ourselves. I am pleased
to see so many brethren present, if they
understood the benefit their wives received
from these meetings they would be anxious
for them to attend. Our sisters are better
just as the brothers are better for attending
the priesthood meetings. Sisters make
your homes pleasant and happy to induce
our husbands and sons to spend their time
at home. By doing good to others we do
good to ourselves. Sister Eliza R. Snow
always advised semi-monthly meetings, al-
ways open and close your meetings on time,
be punctual. Never go in debt, always

[Column 2]
have the pleasure of spending what is your
own. Sisters take the EXPONENT and
encourage this work, it is our paper and
the sisters should take it. I ask all bless-
ings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.”
	Sister Lillie Freeze of the Y. L. M. I. A.
from Salt Lake City, said, “It is natural
for me to do what I have to do with all my
strength. The spirit of revelation and the
Kingdom of God are so widely spreading
it takes all, both young and old to fill these
duties. I have been called to travel among
my sisters and to encourage them in their
labors of love. Be patient with those child-
ren who are wayward, be kind to them and
pray for them, instil the principles of the
Gospel in their minds and after awhile they
will settle down and seek after righteous-
ness. I pray the Spirit may give you my
remarks in the same spirit I give them to
you, for it is my desire to do you good. I
ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.”
	President W. W. Cluff said, “I can truly
say I am pleased to be with you and pleas-
ed with the remarks that have been made.
approve of the instructions of Sister
Stevenson for the young sisters to join the
Relief Society as soon as they are married
The education of our children commences
at birth and continues through life. Many
of us may regret that we have not been
more thorough in the education of our sons
in the principles of the Gospel, let us en-
courage them, then there will be any
amount of young men to fill responsible
positions and we will be proud of them. May
this be our happy lot and may the blessings
of God be with you.”
	Bishop S. F. Atwood gave the sisters
good advice in regard to the care and the
health of their children. He was pleased
with the remarks and the good spirit mani-
fest during the conference.
	President Mary J. Atwood made a few
closing remarks. Was pleased with the
arrangements made to make us so comfortble.
	Singing from the Sunday School Hymn
book.  Conference adjourned to meet at
Rockport the first Tuesday in May 1898.
Benediction by Edmond Eldredge.
	MARY L. WOOLSTENHULME, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

ANNIE N. BOWRING.
	WITH loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of our sister, Annie Bowring of Brigham
City, who departed this life Sep. 14, 1897.
	Annie Nyman Bowring, d[-]ughter of Henry
G[-]orge and Jane Bird Nyman, was born at Lye
Hill Burbage, Wiltshire, England, Dec. 23, 1844.
She emigrated to Utah in 1863, crossed the ocean
in the sailing vessel Amazon, and crossed the
plains in Dan McArthur’s company with ox teams
and reached Salt Lake City in Oct. of the same
year. She was married to Elder Henry Bowring
the same year, and was the mother of three sons
two of whom are still living
	She was connected with the Relief Society of
the 15th Ward, Salt Lake City as secretary,
came to Brigham City in 1877 and has resided
here ever since. In 1878 she was elected secre-
tary in the 1st Ward Society which position she
fi[-]led until April 1885, also acted as teacher from
May 1881 until Feb. 1885. After having removed
to the 3rd Ward she was elected secretary for this
ward S[-]ciety, which position she faithfully filled
until June 1892, when she was elected assistant
secretary of the Stake board, which position she
held at the time of her death She also acted a
few years as corresponding secretary of the Y. L.
M. I. A. Stake board.
	Sister Annie Bowring possessed the love and
respect of her co-laborers, and although she has
for yea[-]s been in delicate health her death came
so unexpectedly, on the very morning of our Re-
lief Society c[-]nference, that a spirit of solemnity
and sadness prevaded the meetings of the whole

[Column 2]
day; still we mourn not in despair for we feel as- .
cured that all is well with our sister and that she
is in a happy place, associating with the faithful
loved ones who have gone bef[-]re.
	RESOLVED, That we place these sentiments on
our records, also publish a copy in the “Woman’s
Exponent,” also present a copy to her bereaved
family.
	OLIVIA WIDERBORG, Pres.
	EMELIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.

ANN B. HELLSTROM.
	WRITTEN in memoriam of Anna Bridget Hells-
trom who died at Colonia, Juarez, Mexico, June
30, 1897. Deceased was the daughter of Olof
Olson and Catherine Anderson She was born at
Gillberga, Sodermanlan, Sweden, March 16, 1824.
Sister H[-]llstrom embraced the Gospel in her
native land many years since and gathered with
the Saints, leaving husband and relatives but
bringing with her two children, a son and a
daughter. The daughter died leaving six child-
ren whom our beloved sister has taken care of,
providing for their wants by her faithful and un-
tiring labors. Few women have been more active
than was our respected and beloved sister in
carrying on the work God gives women to do.
She was a firm believer in industry, not in theory
only but in practice. She was a strict tithing
payer and was indeed a model Latter-day Saint,
and a woman in whom there was no guile. She
was a teacher in the Relief Society and faithfully
discharged her duties in that capacity for some
time. We can truly say of her that she was one of
God’s noble women, faithful, unassuming and
consistent, and her examp[-]e was worthy of imita-
tion.
	The funeral services were held at the ward
meeting house. Appropriate remarks were made
by Antony Ivins, president of the Stake, Bishop
George A. S[-]eley, Counselor Miles P. Romney
and Patriarch W. W. Stowell. A large cortege
followed the remains of our beloved sister to its
resting place.
	In behalf of the Relief Society we tender our
deepest sympathy to the bereaved family. May
we emulate her example that when we are called
home we may hear the joyous notes sounded
“Well done good and fafthful servant, enter into
thy rest.”
	Resolved by the Relief Society that a copy of
this sketch be sent to the family, a copy placed
on record and one forwarded to the “Exponent”
for publication.
	PHOEBE FIFE, Pres.
	HANNAH S. BALLINGER, Sec.

SARAH JEREMY WILLIAMS.
	Sunday morning August 22, 1897, the spirit of
Sister Sarah Jeremy Williams passed to the other
world. She was born August 11, 1819, in Llane-
gwad Parish, Carmarthen Co., South Wales.
	She was the daughter of Thomas Jeremy and
Sarah Evans, and the widow of Evan William.
	Sister Williams was a true convert to the Gos-
pel of Jesus Christ and throughout her life lived
as a consistent Latter-day Saint. She was among
the first in her neighborhood to believe in the
divine mission of Joseph Smith and was baptized
June 20, 1848.
	When she left Wales for America, April 9, 1861,
her husband and family were not members of the
the Church but upon their arrival in Florence,
Nebraska. June 10, 1861, Brother W[-]lliams and
three of the children were baptized by Apostle
Geo. Teasdale.
	While in Florence Sister Williams had a very
severe sick spell and for a time her life was des-
paired of, but she recovered and proceeded on
her journey and reached the valley in September.
On this journey she buried two children, one in
Florence and one near Green river.
	Sis[-]er Williams was a truly chria[-]able woman,
as many in Wales as well as here can testify. Her
greatest pleasure was in relieving the wants
of the needy. She identified herself with
the Relief Society very soon after reaching Utah
and for a great many years she was an active and
energetic worker in the 16th Ward Relief Society,
filling the office of a teacher to the entire sa[-]ls-
faction of the officers of that ward. The poor on
the block where she labored can testify to the
faithfulness of her labors, and they feel that they
have indeed lost a kind friend.
	Sister Williams was a refined and intelligent
woman, a loving and patient wife and mother,
being exceptionally devo[-]ed to her family and a
true and sympathizing friend. She was greatly
blessed in that she retained her health and
strength and the possession of her faculties up to
her 78th birthday, on which day she was taken


sick and eleven days later passed away surround
ed by all of her chidren.
	Sis'er Williams death is sincerely mourned by
family and friends. She was the mother of eight
children. Her living posterity is six children,
forty-one grandchildren and three great-grand-
children.
	She lived and died in full faith in the Gospel
and joyful anticipation of a glorious resurrection.
							C. S. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]	
	PRENATAL INFLUENCES.
	IN all ages and among all people the idea
has prevailed that prenatal conditions have
wielded a mighty power in forming the in-
tellectual, moral and physical nations of
mankind. In our own time as well as
from the dim voices of the past we learn
how strong is the belief in maternal impres-
sions. We know how deformities, birth-
marks and various diseases are charged by
mothers to conditions which operated dur-
ing the period of gestation. Religion, his-
tory and science all testify that prenatal in-
fluence is all powerful in forming the char-
acters and dispositions of human beings.
	The scriptures tell us that “The sins of the
fathers shall be visited upon the children
unto the third and fourth generation.” Num.
14th chapter, 18th verse. And in Genesis, 3rd
chapter we read: “And Jacob took him
rods of green poplar and of the hazel and
chestnut trees, and peeled white streaks in
them and made the white appear which was
in the rods. And he set the rods which he
had peeled before the flocks in the gutters
in the watering troughs where the flocks
came to drink that they should conceive
when they came to drink.
	And the flocks conceived before
the rods and brought forth cattle, ring-
streaked, speckled and spotted.”
	History profane and sacred abounds with
numerous examples testifying to the poten-
cy of prenatal power. Napoleon I. doubtless
was made the general he was from the fact
that his mother spent the greater part of
her time on horseback during his prenatal
period. She was a woman of great courage
and accompanied her husband through the
campaign with Paoli in 1790. During this
time she was in constant peril and danger,
and not only surrounded with but intensely
engaged in all the pomp and circumstance
of war and in this way not only became
familiar with the horrors of war, but also
became reconciled to it and in a measure
enjoyed it. This being so it could not pos-
sibly be otherwise that in her son was im-
planted that indomitable spirit, that un-
bounded ambition and passion for warlike
pursuits that in its exercise did not stop
short of the subjugation of the world.
	The prenatal life of the poet Burns, our
own Garfield, Lincoln and many others
might be given showing how each one was
endowed with those gifts and national quali-
fications enabling him to occupy the posi-
tion in the world’s history which he did.
	Scientific writers without number most
positively assert that not only the physical
nature of the child, its beauty of face and
form, but that its mental and moral facul-
ties are materially influenced by conditions
existing before its birth. Indeed they go
farther and say that idiocy, insanity, imbe-
cility, drunkenness and many criminal in-
stincts are transmitted from parent to child
by strong mental emotions, immoral and
wholly incorrect habits of life.
	Dr. Henry Maudsley in his excellent
work on Body and Mind says: “Perhaps
of all erroneous notions concerning mind

[Column 2]
which metaphysics’ has engendered or abet-
ted, there is none more false than that
which tacitly assumes, or explictly declares
that men are born with equal original men-
tal capacity, opportunities and education
determining the difference of subsequent
development.
	The opinion is as cruel as it is false.
What man can by taking thought add one
cubit either to his mental or his bodily
stature? Multitudes of human beings
come into the world weighted with a des-
tiny against which they have neither the
will nor the power to contend, they are the
step-children of Nature and groan under
the worst of all tyrannies, the tyranny of a
bad organization. Men differ indeed in the
fundamental character of their minds as
they do in the features of their countenances,
or in the habits of their bodies, and between
those who are born with the potentialty of a
full and complete mental development, un-
der favorable circumstances, and those who
are born with an innate incapacity of men-
tal development under any circumstances
there exists every graduation What teach-
ing could ever raise the congenital idiot to
the common level of human intelligence?
What teaching could ever keep the inspired
mind of the man of genius at that level?
	The congenital idiot is deprived of his
human birthright, for he is born with such
a defect of brain that he cannot display any,
or can only display very feeble and imper-
fect mental functions. From no fault of
his own is he thus afflicted, seeing that he
must be held innocent of all offence but the
offence of his share in the original sin; but
it is nowise so clear that it is not from some
fault of his parents. It is all too true that
in many cases there has observsbly beeh a
neglect or disregard of the laws which
govern the progress of human development
through the ages.
	Idiocy is indeed a manufactured article,
and although we are not always able to tell
how it is manufactured, still the important
causes are known and are within control.
Many cases are distinctly tracable to parent-
al intemperance and excess. Out of three
hundred idiots in Mass. Dr. Howe found as
many as one hundred and forty-five to be
the offspring of intemperate parents, and
there were numerous scattered observations
which prove that chronic alcoholism in the
parent may directly occasion idiocy in the
child.”
	Thus we find that physoligists admit
and observations prove that the maternal
emotions do effect the exterior of the foetus,
and likewise may the mental development
be altered in its complex and delicate or-
ganization. The mind influences and mod-
ifies the body in ways unexplained.
			(Continued.)


[Column 1]
Midwifery Classes. 
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the 
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Mrs Kate Bridgwell Anderson’
	Formerly of New Orleans, and re-
cently of Ogden, has opened a vocal
Studio in Unity Hall, 28 W. Third
South. Operatic repertoire a special-
ty. Hours from 10 until 2 p.m., ex-
cept Wednesdays and Saturdays.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP’S SCHOOL.
	The Winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP’S School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ties for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address 			ELLIS R. SHIPP.

[shield image]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[to the right of the shield]
The People’s Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City		7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver						6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City			3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver				0 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK,
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
						Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1897.	NO. 13.


CONTENTS:
	A Tribute—Lillie T. Freeze. Prenatal Influ-
ences—Ida Lowry Allen. Notes and News. A
Word to the Primaries—Mary L. Morris. The
Savior’s Word—E. H. L. Restoration of Mount
Vernon. National American Woman Suff[-]age
Association. R. S. Reports.  In Memoriam.
Ladies' Semi-monthly Meeting.
	EDITORIAL:—The National University. U. W.
P. C. Editorial Notes. 
	POETRY:—The Weed and her Friends—Mary L.
Morris. Mary V. Young—Lydia D. Alder.


THE WEED AND HER FRIENDS.

A WEED looked up from the lawn one day,
	And turning its head around,
Said, “I see the people have gone away,
	And the mower lies flat on the ground.

And the hoe stands under the elm tree there,
	And the digging-fork close by its side,
They are a most industrious pair,
	When with energy applied.

But I don’t care for the mower and hoe,
	Oh dear me no, not I!
They cannot touch me from head to toe,
	When no human hand is nigh.

And I have friends in the sun, and air,
	And the raindrops clear and bright;
And thd evening dew, with its mantle fair
Which glistens in morning light.

So I’ll rear my head in native pride,
	And crown it with bright red beads,
My shoulders and arms I’ll spread out wide,
	And load them with tinted seeds. 

Now Autumn with her balmy air,
	Will play on my offspring’s brow;
In rich, soft soil drop many a pair,
	Awaiting the springtime’s plow.

Then comes the wind with his mighty power,
	He does his work wisely and well;	
He carries my children from tomb to tower 
	O’er mountain, and flowery dell. 

Then comes the snow with her silent wand,
	She keeps my children warm.
King frost is nigh with his icy hand
	To seal them from the storm.

When winter’s o’er and the snows have gone,
	And the sun comes to kiss me again—
March wind will pluck the gems from my crown
	And scatter them o’er the plain. 

And some of my babies, like most little ones,
	Will paddle in brooklets clear,
And down through great streams will journey on
	Through oceans, to lands afar.

Now if this young man having charge of all,
	Had before he went away,
Plucked me up though I was but small;
	Left nothing of me to stay,

I could not have grown ten thousand strong,
	Aided by sun and air 
And the wind and rain as they came along,
	And the dew with its mantle fair.


But now I’ve gone beyond his reach
	He never can gather me in.”
Let this humble weed her lesson teach.
	For such is the journey of sin!
		M. L. MORRIS.


[Column 1]
A TRIBUTE

IN HONOR OF AURELIA SPENCER ROGERS.
“AND they that be wise shall shine as
the brightness of the firmament; and they
that turn many to righteousness as the stars
for ever and ever.”
	Who is Aurelia Spencer Rogers? What
has she done worthy of honor? are questions
that might be asked by many of the Latter-
day Saints; but among 3,500 workers in
the great cause to which she has devoted
her life, her name is honored as the Origin-
ator of the Primary Association in Zion.
	She is the second daughter of Orson
Spencer, author of “Spencer’s Letters,”
a valuable Church work, and was born in
Saybrook, Conn., Oct. 4, 1834. Her par-
ents moved to Illinois and she was baptized
when nine years of age. During the ex-
odus from Nauvoo her mother died from
exposure and exhaustion through camping
out in midwinter, leaving a family of five
little children. Six months later her father
was sent to Great Britian to preside over
the mission there and was obliged to leave
his children in the care of his eldest daugh-
ter Ellen, a girl of thirteen years (the late
Sister Clawson, president of the Salt Lake
Stake and one of the most devoted workers.)
During his absence the little family crossed
the plains in President Brigham Young’s
company, taking five months to complete
the journey. Aurelia became the wife of
the late Thomas Rogers and settled in
Farmington, Davis Co. Being the mother
of a growing family whom she desired
above anything to see become good Latter-
day Saints, her soul was pained by seeing
many evil habits creeping in among the
children of her neighborhood particularly
among the boys, for which the Sabbath
School did not seem quite sufficient check,
and her anxious question was “What can
be done to change these conditions?” The
answer came in the inspired idea, “Organ-
ize the children into an association and
teach them the principles of the Gospel.”
This thought was revealed to Sister Eliza
R. Snow and Emmeline B. Wells while at-
tending a conference held in Farmington on
July 10, 1878.
	Deeply impressed with this idea so sug-
gestive of benefit to the children, these sis-
ters immediately laid the matter before
President John Taylor who, with the quor-
um of the twelve apostles presided over
the Church at that time. It met with his
hearty approval and he commissioned Sis-
ter Eliza to choose a companion and com-
mence organizing the children; her choice
fell on Sister Zina D. Young and together
with their sisters time, they visited the settle-
ments and wards, organizing the Primary
Association and instructing the officers and
children in their duties. The first organiza-

[Column 2]
tion was effected in Farmington with Aure-
lia S. Rogers, president; Louisa Haight and
Helen Miller, counselors. The sisters were
set apart by Bishop John W. Hess and his
counselors, Jacob Miller and Arthur Stay-
ner. August 11, 1878, the first association
in Salt Lake City was organized in the 11th
Ward with Louie B. Felt, president; Lizzie
M. Felt, Laura M. White, counselors, and
Maggie Freeze, secretary.
	As the work progressed and Stake organ-
izations were completed Aurelia Rogers
was chosen to preside over the Primary 
Associations of the Davis Stake, and still
later when the General board was called in- 
to existence and enlarged, this worthy and
beloved pioneer was elected to the position 
of an aid. Being built upon a proper
foundation—with the sanction and ap-
proval of the Priesthood from its infancy—
the Primary work was established through-
out Zion and has been sustained as one of 
the most important organizations in the
Church.
	The amount of faith, courage and persis- 
tenence and patient determination required
by the sisters called to labor in the past can
scarcely be estimated, but a deep sense of
responsibility and an abiding love for the
children of the Saints have inspired heroic
efforts in the paths of duty. All honor is 
due them especially the pioneer in this
movement. What are the results of this 
devotion for upwards of twenty years? Only 
the angels can tell, but according to the
last annual report made by the General
board, which included a report from every
Stake in Zion, we can form a little idea of
the good being accomplished.
	There are 484 associations, 2,767 officers
and 33,659 members. There has been
held 13,946 meetings and conferences,
representing the spiritual and moral edu-
cation, 412 entertainments, showing the
mental and social, 56 fairs, showing the in-
dustrial. The Primary Fair is a very inter-
esting and important feature, originated
with Sister Ann Dustin Woolley, of East
Bountiful, the first being held in the Asso-
ciation over which she still presides.
	The nature of the exercises can briefly be
told from a few statistics. Readings from
Church works 24,454; readings and recita-
tions from miscellaneous works 30,259;
testimonies borne 17,174; sentiments mem-
orized and stories related 70,207; manu-
script papers 294; essays, dialogues, histori-
cal sketches and lectures 2,833; musical ex-
ercises, vocal and instrumental 13,804.
	Financially hundreds of dollars annually
are devoted to charitable purposes, mission-
ary work, traveling expenses and the var-
ious enterprises connected with the Church.
Thus we see that the opportunities for
development are varied, tending to the edu-
cation of the children spiritually, mentally,
morally, physically and socially—the spirit-
ual growth taking the lead. Boys and girls
between the ages of four and fourteen are
taught to pray in secret and trained in
forms of public devotion. They are taught
to honor their parents and the Priesthood,
observe the Sabbath day, pay tithes and
offerings as individuals and as associations,


to keep the word of wisdom, have faith in
the ordinance for the healing of the sick, to
respect the aged and sympathize with the
afflicted. In these good things and many
others they are taught and disciplined by
actual doing, all tending to establish correct
sentiments as they grow to man and wo-
manhood.
	It is for such results brought about
through Sister Rogers as an instrument in
the hands of God that we have met to offer
her our heartfelt gratitude and pay the re-
spect due her faithful, loving and successful
labors. Many noble, inspired men and wo-
men have devoted their life’s best work to
the good and happiness of little children,
struggling on alone, their efforts unap-
preciated and finally passing away unhonor-
ed and unsung, long before their bread cast
upon the waters has returned to them even
after many days, but under the Gospel
reign, with its marvelous system of organ-
zation to present and perpetuate the in-
spired thought given to men and women,
their meed of appreciation and praise comes
to them even in this life; it is a sweet re-
ward for all their toil and when they rest
from their labors in the Lord, their works
follow them, and their names are held in
honorable remembrance among the Saints
of God. 
			LILLIE T. FREEZE.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
PRENATAL INFLUENCES.

	In the American Text Book of Obstetrics
we find the following: “There exists a
popular belief which was particularly preva-
lent during early times, that the peculiar
sensations, emotions, sights etc., experi-
enced by a pregnant woman are frequently
transmitted to her child, and if these sights
and impressions are particularly frightful
they cause marks and defects on the child.
One of the arguments advanced in favor of
this view is that a belief so universal is
rarely entirely fallacious, especially when
the subject is based upon observation.
	At the present time authors, practition-
ers and teachers differ, but up to the begin-
ning of the 18th century they were nearly
unanimous in the belief that birth marks,
deformities and lack of development phy-
sically and mentally were due to impressions
received from the mother.
	During the past forty years many articles
have been written strongly opposed to the
previously accepted theory of prenatal influ-
ence.
	It has always been extremely difficult to
demonstrate that any deformity or lack of
development in the child was due to an im-
pression which the mother may have re-
ceived before its birth inasmuch as there
seems to be at least one very strong argu-
ment, in that we find no direct nerve con-
nection existing between the mother and
child.
	We must conclude, however, that there
are some unknown laws operating to in-
fluence the unborn child, for in this way
are family traits and features kept in exis-
tence and in this way are the traits, charac-
ters and dispositions of races perpetuated
from one generatron to another.
	But the vital point under discussion is
this:—to what degree are the characters
and dispositions of mankind affected by
prenatal influences?
	From the testimony of the best observers
from the historical and scientific witnesses

[Column 2]
on this subject we can safely say that the
characters and dispositions of mankind are
influenced very much by the conditions
which operate during the period of gesta-
tion. The late Fordice Barker has been
credited with demonstrating the correctness
of the theory of maternal impressions in a
paper read in 1886, before the American
Gynecological Society.
	Let us imagine a mother surrounded with
the most pleasant and happy conditions,
having proper daily habits, refined, intelli-
gent, full of reverence for God, the Great
Creator, loving all good things especially
the little helpless being given her to nourish
and bring into existence. Appreciating
the most glorious privilege of motherhood
and earnestly desiring to perfect herself in
every good quality she would desire her
child to possess.
	Then for a moment look at another wo-
man, immoral, uncleanly, profane, degraded
in thought and action, hating her unborn
child, in fact having murderous feelings to-
wards it. Now can it be possible for this
low, vile woman to bring into existence as
pure, healthy, intelligent, gifted, sweet-
tempered, lovable child as the former mother
referred to?
	For it is not only true that she could not
endow him with those desirable qualities
during his ante-natal life, but that she is
wholly unprepared to teach, guide and
direct his young mind either by example or
precept. And allowing that the prenatal
conditions wield a great influence on the
unborn child, it is also an established fact
that the teaching and training of a child
after birth determines to a great extent the
character, qualifications and avocation.
So as life produces life should it not be an
incentive to every true mother to aspire for
the highest, the purest, the best in all
things? Dr. Cowan says:
	“To have children is a thing greatly to
be desired; but to have children of well
balanced organizations, healthy, beautiful
and possessing the quality of genius in
some one or other direction, is something
every parent should long strive and work
for.”
	Why is it there is so much of the plain
and mediocre of mankind in the world?
Why is it that when there is one success in
life’s endeavor there are one thousand of
failures? Why is it that there is so much
sin, misery, suffering and premature death
and so little, so very little of genuine suc-
cess and happiness? Why is there so much
wrong in life, so little of the right? These
are important questions, yet easy of solu-
tion; for when it comes to be understood
that not more than one child in perhaps ten
thousand is brought into the world with the
consent and loving desire of the parents,
and that the other nine thousand, nine hun-
dred and ninety-nine children are endowed
with the accumulated sins of the parents, is
it any wonder that there is so much sin,
sickness, drunkenness, licentiousness, mur-
der, suicide and premature death, and so
little of purity, chastity, success, goodness
and long life in the world? The reforma-
tion of the world can never be accomplished
—the millenium of purity, chastity and in-
tense happiness can never reach the earth
except through cheerful obedience to pre-
natal laws.
	With educational institutions in the
world—all the benevolent, industrial and
reform societies—all the temperance soci-
eties and all the divines in the world com-

[Column 3]
bined and working harmoniously together
cannot do as much in a lifetime of effort in
the elevation of mankind, as can a mother
in nine months of prenatal effort.
	It is a noticable thing that in the ruling
and guiding of this world there is absolute- 
ly nothing done by chance, from the
growth of the smallest insect to that of the
largest quadruped; from the falling of a
sparrow to the death of a sinner or a
Christian; from the forming of the tiny
crystal of dew, to the laboring of the de-
structive hurricane. In all and through all
and over all is the working of God’s Omni-
potent presence—His unchangable and un-
deviating laws. In the production of off-
spring there too must be a law—a law of
right and wrong, and the non-observance
of this law entails on its violaters the pen-
alty of a sickly, effeminate, mediocre, short-
lived progeny, while its close observance
brings with it an approach to perfection in
form, feature and soul of the new born.
	The influence of a right birthright on the
future welfare of mankind is immense. A
statitican has estimated that every married
couple producing offspring may calculate
upon four millions of descendants in five
hundred years. And then the influence of
well-directed or mis-directed laws in the
conception of a new life does not stop at its
exit from this world. Oh no, it extends
into eternity. Give birth to a human
being under conditions that will make it an
imbecile or an idiot, and the parents or any
sane person will not think that after its
death it will in the next world, bloom into
a Shakespeare, a Milton or Bacon. Endow
a new life with a licentious, gluttonous,
unclean and wicked nature, and no right-
thinking observer will decide that as soon
as such a soul leaves this earth, it will take
on the garments of purity, innocence,
chastity and holiness. Therefore it be-
hooves all parents to see to it that they
learn the law, understand and practice it.
			IDA LOWRY ALLEN.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE founding of a new co-educational,
non-sectarian university, is contemplated
by Washington Corrington, a millionaire
farmer of Peoria, Ill. He is now eighty-
five years old. For twenty years he has
been thinking of a plan to give others the
education he could not get in his youth,
and he has finally arranged that after his
death his entire fortune, $1,500,000, gather-
ed during his long life of toil, shall be used
to found Corrington Institute and Univer-
sity. It will be erected on his old home-
stead near Peoria, where he has toiled for
fifty-three years.
	REV. W. B. PALMORE, of the St. Louis
Advocate, strikes this contrast: “When
we see the average Southern girl, we
generally feel like volunteering our ser-
vices for protection, to see that no harm be-
falls her. When we see the average
Northern girl we feel like putting our-
selves under her protecting care, that she
she may see that no harm befalls us.”
	MISS LUTIE LYTLE, the young colored
woman who graduated last summer from
the law department of the Central Tennes-
see College, at Nashville, has been admitted
o the bar at Memphis.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARY V. YOUNG
 
LOVINGLY INSCRIBED TO HER MOTHER.
As stately and fair as lilies in bloom,
When on the soft air they breathe sweet perfume
With heart true and tender, yet not understood—
How refreshing the flowers that bloom in the
	wood!
Like violets, hid far away from the sight,
Deep under green leaves removed from the light,
Yet rare in their beauty as Summer’s full moon
That throws her effulgence o’er the roses of June

How high o’er the world in serenest repose,
Sail the moon and the clouds when the night wind
	blows!
Whence is their course, how appointed to them?
So far, far away from the boundaries of men.
Not understood in magnificence they shine, 
Their author and ruler, the Grand and Sublime.
And so among men even those whom we love,
To our hearts are unknown, like the stars up
	above. 

Down deep in the soul from the world all hidden
A tender love is living unselfish, unbidden;
By the careless and thoughtless it never is seen—
Rare paintings and pictures with the false hung
	between.
So beautiful was Mary, who died long ago,
And was laid in the earth far under the snow;
Only known to the few, but by them held so dear,
That over her bier fell affection’s sad tear.

On a stone white and cold, close by the City’s din,
Read the simple story “O what might have been!”
The past discloses sadness and a share of pain,
A life not understood, though of pure and holy
	aim.
When shall we meet, again no more to sever!
Friends that ne’er forget loving on forever?—
The grave can bring no change, but a perfect
	day,
Awaits the ransomed spirit unfettered by its clay.
					LYDIA D. ALDER
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 1897.
	*Wife of President Brigham Young, died Jan.
1884


A WORD TO THE PRIMARIES

Dear Sister Wells:
	KNOWING that you are interested in the
welfare of all the borders of Zion, we
thought perhaps you would not turn away 
a few words from its center Stake.
	Since our reorganization, which occured
Sep. 12 of last year, shortly after the death
of our beloved president Sister Ellen C. 
Clawson, we have endeavored to visit every
ward in the Stake. If we have omitted any
it has been because the opportunity has not
been tendered us. We can visit the city
wards at will but the country have our
visits in their own hands, because we have
to wait not only for invitation but for trans-
portation from the car lines. Where we
have visited we have been treated right
royally, but some of our city visits have
been like the angels spoken of anciently,
unawares. But the sisters take it all in
good part for they know that we have but
one aim, and that to benefit them and those
whom they are called to teach.
	As we have visited we have generally
graded, and have received excellent reports
of its results. The need of grading is easily 
seen; for instance in addressing a Primary
association pupils will very often range
from three to sixteen years; such an ad-
dress will be like a handful of promiscuous
shot, it will hit where it does not miss, or

[Column 2]
part of it will be thrown over the heads of
the little tots, or larger ones will be left un-
fed or uninterested. Whereas by assorting
the children and placing each grade apart
we can appeal to each grade according to
their degree of intelligence. Grading is
quite a little task, but once accomplished it
more than pays. We take the tots from
three to six years, give them in charge of a
counselor or aid, then pick out three, say
from seven to ten and eleven, interest and
instruct them according to their capacity.
Then comes the grade from eleven to
twelve or fifteen; now this grade feel their
importance immediately, they feel that they
are no longer classed with babies and can
do a higher grade of work and are proud of
it, and from this grade we take our aids
who help in time of need, and from this
class we can take our secretaries. Each
class prepares its own minutes and program
but hands them in as a whole to the secre-
tary of the association at the close of the
meeting.
	We have great pleasure in our work and
our colaborers are a willing band of sisters.
Since our reorganization the attendance at
the officers meeting, which occurs on the
first Saturday in every month, has increased
greatly, yes to an overflow and even to
utilizing the window sills. Some wards
that we visit are doing so well that we are
delighted, while in some wards there is a
lack of energy or ability which makes us
feel sad to think that the darlings must go
unfed spiritually or intellectually. Those
who do put their soul and energy into their
work are deserving great praise and will re-
ceive a great reward, for we know they
must drop their own affairs no matter how
trying this may be, and many times drag
their weary bodies to the place where the
little ones can be taught the ways of the
Lord.
	We must not forget to tell you of a
delightful sociable that we had lately. It
was a reunion of the officers of the Salt
Lake Stake Primary association including the
general board and the boards of other asso-
ciations of the Church. As your dear self
could not meet with us as per invitation,
we want to tell you that it was a pretty
sight to see the happy faces of our sisters
and some of our brethren on that occasion.
It was decided there and then by our guests
and your correspondent that this delightful
affair must be repeated at least once a year.
Please pardon us if we have trespassed on
your valuable space.
				MARY L. MORRIS.
	In behalf of the Board.


THE SAVIOR’S WORDS.

	AT the birth of our Savior a great part of
the world was subject to the Romans.
Augustus was the Emperor at that time.
Most nations except the Jews were idol-
aters, the greater part of their gods were
ancient heroes, likewise females who were
distinguished for their great deeds, also the
sun, moon and stars received worship from
many Others paid divine homage to the
earth, mountains, rivers, oceans, or at least
to the deities supposed to preside over these
objects.
	Towards the close of the reign of Herod,
(a tributary king of Palestine and a cruel
tyrant,) our Savior was born.
	Our Savior, the spotless Son of God!
During his brief life he set a perfect exam-


ple for man to follow but little heed was
taken. The early Christians were barbar-
ously treated.
	The teachings of Christ were so simple
that all might understand but how few did!
He gathered to himself disciples, instructed
them and sent them forth to preach his
Gospel. The Roman Empire asserted its
right to rule in all things, human and Di-
vine. To preach Christianity in Rome was
looked upon as high treason. The Romans
considered themselves not only the greatest of
all nations but the most religious.
	The great mass of the early Christians
were from the lower ranks of the people,
and down through the centuries the poor,
the meek and the lowly have been the fol-
lowers of Jesus. It is the same today.
	As Latter-day Saints how blest a people
we are who live in this day when the true 
Gospel of Jesus Christ has been revealed,
and what a work rests upon us for the liv-
ing and the dead!  Then let us be true to
our religion, doing our duty and all will be
well, for the Lord has ever been and will
ever be with those who do his will. We
may make grave mistakes, commit many 
errors, but if our desires are to do right our
Heavenly Father will be merciful unto us
His children.				E. H. L.


RESTORATION OF MOUNT VERNON.

	IT will be gratifying news to many to
learn that Mount Vernon is to undergo
restoration to as near its condition at the
time of its occupancy by our first President
as is practicable.
	It was recently discovered that decay had
set in in some of the timbers used in the
erection of the mansion and work has al-
ready begun under the direction of the
Mount Vernon Ladies’ association for their
replacement by materials of most lasting
quality. At the same time the house will
be given over to T. Mellon Rogers of Phila-
delphia, a colonial architect of note, for
restoration as far as is possible to its origin-
al beauty of decoration and arrangement of
furniture. It is not well known that in
the years that have intervened since the
death of its illustrious tenant that the inte-
rior beauty of the house has been sadly mar-
red by careless and ignorant renovation.
On his examination Mr. Rogers found that
exquisite carved work had been partly obli-
terated by numerous coats of paint, as many
as ten being found on some of the wood-
work; that delicately tinted walls had been
covered by several layers of wall paper, in
which no intelligent care had been taken to
preserve the original scheme of decoration.
This extraneous matter will be carefully re-
moved and as far as possible original color-
ings and decorations be restored. New
cornice wlll be put in place of that impair-
ed by time and misusage. The plain col-
umns now supporting the upper floor will
be replaced by colonial fluted columns; the
staircase will be repaired and a blackwal-
nut effect imparted to it, and the furniture
of the mansion will be rearranged in con-
formity with its placing in Washington’s
time.
	The expense of this radical restoration
will be assumed by the respective state
representatives of the Mount Vernon
Ladies’ association.—Home Magazine.


MRS. J. ELLEN FOSTER has opened a
law office in Washington, D. C., in associa-
tion with Mrs. Ellen Spencer Mussey.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia),	Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
pace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
ount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1897.


[Column 1] 
THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY.

	WASHINGTON, NOV 16.—The agitated
question of establishing in the city of
Washington a national university on the
lines suggested by President Washington,
has taken more definite form than in the
past, and representative American women
have taken hold of the project with a de- 
termination to push it to a successful con-
clusion if possible. They have started out
in a practical manner by seeking to raise
the first $250,000 necessary for the erection 
of an administration building to form the
nucleus of the university and hope to lay
the corner stone on Feb. 22, 1899. Their
purpose in the interim is to urge the matter
continuously on the attention of women all
over the country. They intend likewise to
interest the school children in the work.
As a first step for awakening interest in the
undertaking they will assemble in conven-
tion in Washington on Dec. 14, to decide
on ways and means for arousing public
sentiment.
	Among those who have initiated the
movement to fulfill Washington’s wish are
Mrs. Phebe Hearst of this city, Mrs. Ellen
A. Richardson of Boston, Mrs. Clara A.
Anthony, Mrs. Rachel Howland, Mrs.
Louise Tincker and Mrs. Edmond Anthony
Jr. of Massachusetts, Mrs. L. Boyd of 
Georgia, Mrs. W. A. Roebling of New
Jersey, Mrs. John K. Goodloe, of Kentucky,
Mrs. H. H. Adams of Connecticut, Mrs. C.
S. Brice of Ohio, Mrs. Eugene Hall, Mrs.
David Starr Jordan, Dr. Charlotte Bleak
Brown, Mrs. E. S. Hubbard and Mrs. 
Caroline Jackson of California.
	Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson of Boston,
chief organizer of the movement writing to
Mr. George H. Harris of this city of the
plan thus far formed, says:
	“The patriotic ladies of America are to build
the administration building and they propose to
make the 22nd of February, 1898 the nation’s first
offering day for this purpose, asking no large co-
tribution, begging nothing. America’s 70,000,000
people must build this great monument. If the
13 000,000 children in the public schools in 
America would give an offering of a penny each 
on Washington’s birthday they would have suffi-
cient to erect the building and endow it. Let us
then join hands and have an American university.
American sciences, American ideas for American
citizens.”
	Mrs. Richardson further stated that she
has arranged with the proper authorities
that the bureau of engraving and printing 
shall produce certificates which shall be
given to those who contribute.

[Column 2]
THE MEETING IN SALT LAKE CITY.
	Mrs Margaret Blaine Salisbury has been
appointed by the president, Mrs. Richard-
son for Utah, to take charge of the work of
this State.
	The meeting held at her residence on
Saturday afternoon Nov. 27, was for the
purpose of organizing.a committee for this
enterprise. Letters were sent out before-
hand not only to women in this city but in
Ogden, Logan, Provo and Park City. A
number of ladies responded to the call, and
at the time appointed Mrs. Salisbury stated
the object of the meeting, and the ladies
assembled then and there elected Mrs. Salis-
bury permanently to fill the office to which
she had been appointed by the central or-
ganization. She was authorized by vote to
appoint a secretary and such other officers
as were needed to assist in the work. Fol-
lowing this suggestion the chairman ap-
pointed Mrs, C. E. Allen, vice-chairman
and representative of the First Congressional
district of Utah; Miss Hester Harkness, secre-
tary; Mrs. F. J. Fabian, treasurer, and Mrs. E.
B. Wells, press representative.
	Mrs. Salisbury read an address which
stated all the important facts concerning
the movement, and read from the will of
George Washington that part relating to the
founding of such an institution, and also
how the funds left by him for that purpose
had been lost; the chairman also read the
Senate bill upon the subject, therefore the
ladies present were informed of the object
in view and the needs of such a magnificent
building as would be required for the pur-
pose named.
	Mrs Allen spoke upon the necessity of
the people of this State proving their inter-
est in the movement, bringing out clearly
the idea of American patriotism.
	Mrs. Fabian spoke briefly upon the
great need of a university where such
degrees could be given as were obtained in
foreign institutions and avoid the neces-
sity of so many thousands of young people
going abroad to study. Mrs. Kinney made
some practical suggestions as to how the
money should be raised.
	A committee on resolutions was appointed
and later an important resolution submitted
and passed unanimously to aid the chair-
man in matters to be considered in the
meeting to which she is called as delegate
from Utah. The meeting is to be held in
Washington on December 14th, and Mrs.
Salisbury expects to leave in a few days for
the capital.
	The money which the women are prepar-
ing to raise at the present time or in the
near future is to build an administration
building as a nucleus of the university, and
is to be entirely woman’s work or a memor-
ial from the women of this country to the
immortal Washington.
	The cost of the building is estimated at
$250,000, and the proportion for Utah is ex-
pected to be $1,000. It is anticipated that
the corner stone will be laid Feb. 22, 1899.
A part of woman’s work will be to arouse
an interest in the school children of the
country to aid in the enterprise, and the
committee of women propose to make the
first offering for this building on Feb. 22,
1898.
	The committee of ladies already appoint-
ed at the meeting held are, besides the
officers whose names are: already given,
Mrs. Frank J. Cannon and Mrs. Whalon of
Ogden, Mrs. Hoyt of Park City, Mrs.
Coray of Provo, Mrs. Luther Foster and

[Column 3]
Mrs. George W. Thatcher of Logan, and
from this city Mrs. Hurd, Mrs. M. B. Jen-
nings, Mrs. Hoyt Sherman, Mrs. Blanche
Taylor, Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, Mrs.
Downey, Mrs. Wygant, Mrs. C. W. Ben-
nett, Mrs. C. S. Kinney, Mrs. M. C. Fox,
Mrs. Woodward, Mrs. Hamilton, Mrs.
Joseph C. Kingsbury.
	The meeting adjourned to meet at the
call of the chairman, after the plan of the
work had been formulated in Washington.


U. W. P. C.

	THE annual meeting of the U. W. P. C.
was held at the residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
Saturday evening Oct. 30, as the regular
day came on Sunday, Mrs. Ruth M. Fox
presiding. After prayer came the business
of electing officers to serve for the ensuing
year. Roll of officers as follows: Honorary
President, E. B. Wells; Past Presidents,
Dr. E. R. Shipp and Ruth M. Fox; elected
Dr. Romania B. Pratt President; Rebecca
H. Doolan and Helen Vilate Kimball, Vice-
Presidents; Isabella Cameron Brown, Vice-
President at Large; Mary A. J. Lambert
Secretary; Aimee Schiller Asst. Secretary;
Lydia D. Alder Cor. Secretary; Edith
Lovsey Asst. Cor. Secretary; Hattie B.
Harker Treasurer. The work of the en-
suing year was not decided upon as a new
program committee was to be appointed by
the president.
	According to previous arrangement
character representations were given by
some of the members. The ladies who
were most conspicuous were first Lydia D.
Alder as the sweet poet Lydia H. Sigourney
in lace mantilla and appropriate costume
throughout. She read the exquisite poem,
Napolion’s Epitaph, from this gifted writer.
Next came Lucy A. Clark as Hypatia, in
flowing raiment, artistically draped, dis-
coursing philosophy with the wisdom of an
ancient sage. Dr. Orielle Curtis made a 
very striking Portia, with cap and gown,
and withal she looked a Doctor of Laws in
very deed, and as she gave the quotation
“The quality of mercy is not strained,” one
might imagine her a real Greek heroine.
Rebecca H. Doolan with soft white hair
and fine lace cap in plain attire made a 
good picture of the late gifted Mormon 
poetess, Eliza R. Snow and read her poem
“Contentment”. Ruth M. Fox was simply
charming in her Quaker bonnet and severely
plain garb, carrying in her hand the scroll
of the Declaration of Independence and
giving the pathetic yet eloquent description
of the scene when the brave little woman
made herself forever famous on that mem-
orable night of the fire at the Capital.
	Ella W. Hyde in Puritan dress read one
of Louise M. Alcott’s sunshiny poems in a 
delightfully characteristic way. Edith R.
Lovsey read Longfellow’s poem to the
flowers, in a most charming style; bedecked
becomingly in fresh and beautiful flowers,
she made a pleasant picture to the eye and
her voice is full of sweetness. Helen Vilate
Kimball as Lady Elizabeth Montague
made quite an imposing appearance, richly
dressed, her tall, stately figure showed to
good advantage as a woman of rank and
title. No one was able to guess her identi-
ty, not even when she read quotations from
this celebrated English author’s “Letters
from the Dead.” Of this lady who was 
born in 1720, and died in 1800, the poet
Cowper said:


“The birds put off their every hue,
	To dress a room for Montague.”
She was even more popular than her illus-
trious kinswoman, Lady Mary Wortley
Montague, whom it is said suffered by the
comparison of her letters with those of Lady
Elizabeth.
 	The great Dr. Johnson said of her: “She
exerts more mind in conversation than any
person I ever met with.” However, her
greatest fame lay in her Essay on the
“Writings and Genius of Shakespeare.”
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt in heavy rustling
silk, her beautiful hair in natural curls, so
exactly like the portrait of Felicia Dorathea
Hemans as we see her in books, with fan and
reticule and scroll making a complete study
of the character, read one of the sweetest
poems written by this favorite author.
	Miss Pearl Russell as Lady Clare in sim-
ple gown with a rose in her hair, repeated
a verse from that charming poem of Tenny-
son’s and looked as timid and as sweet as
the beautiful Lady Clare herself possibly
could had she stepped out from the poem.
Aimee Schiller handsomely dressed repre-
sented the “Scarlet Letter” in a style new
 and unique and her reading was excellent
as well as her choice in the selection.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp with a beautiful dress
black gilk entraine and flowing sleeves
of glistening white that might have been
wings of angels so airy and fluttering they
were, carrying in each hand a luxuriant
bunch of chrysanthemums and accompan-
ied by her two daughters Olea and Ellis on
either side as maids of honor, made a
splendid picture of the Queen of Sheba,
and as she gave the quotation held up first
the bouquet of real flowers and then the
artificial, asking which was the true and
which the false and adding the half had not
been told, overcome as it were with the
splendor and magnificence of Solomon’s
Court.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells came in as Harriet
Martineau the English writer of works up-
on political economy and others rather re-
markable for a woman even in the early
part of this century, her costume such as
she had heard her mother say was worn for
she had lived about the same period as Miss
Martineau.
	Next came Mrs. Lizzie S. Wilcox who
gave the most humorous representation of
all, and strange to state though it was so
well done the classical, scholars of modern
date were not able to guess. She had the
tailor's goose, patches in profusion and
wore a man’s coat, sat at the table not pre-
cisely tailor fashion, however, and the fun
she provoked was quite exhilarating as
Sartor Resartus. After this the meeting
adjourned and the sweet young girls and a
few of the ladies of the club served delicate
refreshments, and there was some music
etc., and a pleasant chat in the pretty par-
lors, tastefully decorated with Autumn
flowers, and so ended the club evening of
October, 1897.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. LILLIAN HACKETT CULVER of
Monida, Montana, recently paid a visit to
our city remaining a few days. Mrs.
Culver is a cousin of the late Gen. D. H.
Wells, and also something of a newspaper
correspondent. She was on her way East
to visit relatives in different states, Kansas,
Iowa, Illinois, New York, Massachusetts
and Maine. Mrs. Culver visited Salt Lake

[Column 2]
City in 1883 when Gen. Wells was living
and stayed for some time. In returning
after so many years she was surprised by
the many changes made in old residences
and public buildings. While here she
visited all the places of interest and was
greatly pleased with the Hall of Relics.
	ON Thursday Nov. 18, in company with
Sister E. S. Taylor, General President of
the Y. L. M. I. A., we had the pleasure of
visiting Logan and attending the confer-
ences of the Relief Society and the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Cache Stake. Both these confer-
ences were very entertaining and well at-
tended. The presidency of the Stake were
in attendance, one or more at each meeting,
also other brethren, and the various reports
from all parts of the Stake were quite satis-
factory and indicated the growth and im-
provement, being made in many departments
of organized effort. We expect to receive
the minutes for publication consequently
need not go into details, but will add that
we were delighted with the visit and in see-
ing some friends of early days, especially
some of Ezra T. Benson’s family. Sister
Adeline Benson at the great age of eighty-
four years, in fact she will be eighty-five
next March, retains her good looks and bet-
ter still all her faculties of mind and body;
although not able to go out very much she
converses well on the topics of the day,
reads the newspapers and keeps up with the
times.
	ON Saturday Nov. 20, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne’s birthday anniversary was celebrated
by a few of her intimate friends and co-
laborers at her home in this city. The oc-
casion was a happy one, although the num-
ber assembled was small in comparison to
the multitude of women, who would have
been pleased to honor and congratulate her
on attaining the great age of seventy-nine
years and retaining such good health and so
much of the vigor of life as to enable her to
perform the arduous labors devolving upon
her ln the various callings in which she
officiates among the organizations of the
women of Zion. The party resolved itself
into a meeting and Mrs. B. W. Smith was
chosen to preside. The sisters present each
expressed their love and appreciation of
Sister Horne and said many good things
calculated to stimulate her and each other
in good works and labors of love. Dr.
Elvira S. Barney read a paper prepared for
the veteran lady in whose honor the party
had met, which gave an epitome of the life
and labors of Sister Horne and of the pro-
gression of women in general, and what the
Gospel had done in uplifting mankind.
Many little gifts, mementoes of love and
friendship were given, and delicious refresh-
ments partaken of. Although not present
we also join in fervent congratulations,
hoping for Sister Horne increased vigor of
mind and body to pursue her labors among
the sisters in Zion, and that her very useful
life may be prolonged until her work on
earth is fully accomplished.
	THE Utah Kindergarten Association
gave one of its popular entertainments on
Friday evening Nov. 19, at the residence of
Mrs. Mina M. Cannon. The program was
an excellent one, some of the best home
talent proffered their services for “sweet
charity’s sake.” Mrs. Florence Marian
Dinwoodey who has studied music abroad,
also Miss Della Daynes who is a great favor-
ite and has a sweet, clear voice, Mr. Sales

[Column 3]
recently from London and others. The
superintendent, Mrs. Georgie F. Young,
and a few faithful co-laborers associated
with her have spared no effort or pains to
establish and sustain a Kindergarten in
Salt Lake City, for the training of the little
folks. It has been a great undertaking and
those who look on and criticise know noth-
ing comparatively speaking of the labor and
anxiety it has taken to do the little already
accomplished. If the people generally, and
especially the parents of the small children,
knew how beneficial this kind of training
would be they would assist with a will and
the few would not have to carry the burden
as they do now and have ever since the
enterprise was started. But the ladies are
grateful for the patronage they do receive at
the entertainments and lectures which have
been given, and still feel to persevere in the
good cause, trusting that the people in
general will soon become better acquainted
with the helpfulness of Kindergarten work.
	AN enjoyable reunion of the officers of
the Primary Association of Salt Lake Stake
and invited guests was held on Thursday
afternoon Nov. 18, in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Hall. The affair was under the direc-
tion of the superintendent of the Primaries of
this Stake, Sister Camilla C. Cobb and her
board of assistants. It was the first event
of the kind and proved to be a delightful
social gathering. The decorations were in
charge of Sisters Ella W. Hyde and Kate
Wells and were very artistic and pleasing.
Nearly every ward in the Stake was repre-
sented by its respective officers. Presidents
Angus M. Cannon and Jos. E. Taylor were
present also Louie B. Felt, General Superin-
tendent and her first assistant, Lillie T.
Freeze and some of the members of her
board, Aurelia S. Rogers of Davis Stake,
and Sisters B. W. Smith, M. A. Freeze and
others. A very fine program had been
prepared and was well rendered. There
were solos, duets and recitations. Among
those that should be especially noticed were
Josie Morris, Frankie Young, Miss Tibbetts
and Shirley Penrose Jones. We have not
space for details but we are told it was a
very excellent entertainment. L. Lula
Greene Richards read an original poem that
she had written for the occasion, which was
very apropos and well received. Remarks
were made by several leading brethren and
guests which were full of encouragement
and due praise for the good work done by
the Primary Associations, and as a matter
of course delicious refreshments in abun-
dance were served to all present by the
young women and girls who are laboring
in this good cause. These good sisters who
spend time and study to make the Primary
Association a success are worthy of com-
mendation and praise for their diligence and
faithfulness in their calling, and we trust
the reunion will be an impetus to those
who are indifferent or unaware of the great
responsibility of those who have been called
to assist in this important work.


NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN
SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.

	THE Thirtieth Annual Convention will
be held in the Columbia Theatre, Wash-
ington, D. C., beginning Feb. 14, and end-
ing Feb 19, 1898.
	This meeting will be of special interest
and significance as the Fiftieth Anniversary
of the First convention ever held to demand


equal rights for women. No Reform ever
was more imperatively needed; none ever
had greater obstacles to overcome. The
subjection of women was world-wide and of
immemorial antiquity. It was rooted in
the codes and customs of all nations. It
was accepted by men and women alike as
the law of nature and of God. The thought
of equality for women—their right to educa-
tion, to a chance for self-support, to the
control of their own persons, children, earn-
ings and property—had scarcely dawned
even upon the most progressive minds.
	The great movement has steadily ad-
vanced. In this half century a new world
has been created for women. In home and
school, in church and State, in the courts
and in the industries and professions, a re-
formation has been effected, all the more to
be valued because achieved through the
slow processes of evolution rather than the
harsh measures of revolution.
	In the political world, the last stronghold
of prejudice, the rights of women are being
recognized. We have today a President
and Congress elected in part by the votes of
women. The constitutions of Wyoming,
Colorado, Utah and Idaho secure to women
the full suffrage. In the two hundred and
eighty-five incorporated cities of Kansas,
women exercise municipal suffrage. In
twenty-two States they possess school suf-
frage.
	The Twentieth Century belongs equally
to men and women. All citizens of the
United States, all friends from other
countries are cordially invited to co-operate
in celebrating the semi-centennial of the
first convention held for what Wendell
Phillips declared to be “the most momen-
teous reform that has yet been launched on
the world."
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Honorary Presi-
dent; Susan B. Anthony, President; Anna
Howard Shaw, Vice-President at Large;
Rachel Foster Avery, Cor. Secretary; Alice
Stone Blackwell, Rec. Secretary; Harriet
Taylor Upton, Treasurer; Laura Clay,
Auditor; Catharine Waugh McCulloch,
Auditor; Carrie Chapman Catt, Chairman
Organization Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SEVIER STAKE.
	THE semi-annual conference of the Sevier
Stake Relief Society convened at Richfield
Oct. 22 and 23, 1897, President Elizabeth
B. Bean presiding. An excellent spirit pre-
vailed throughout the conference, although
a spirit of sadness lingered in the hearts of
all present, caused by the recent death of
our beloved sister, Emma Spafford, second
counselor to the president of the Stake.
Many good instructions were given, the
principal speakers being President Bean,
Counselor Thurber, Sister Lucy Hepplar,
Patriarch George W. Bean and Presidents
Seegmiller and Horne.
	The subjects treated upon were Temple
work, the building of a Relief Society house
in Salt Lake, the storing of grain, the care
of our children etc. etc.
	Thirteen presidents each reported her
Society in good condition, active and ener-
getic in good works.
	The conference adjourned for six months
and the sisters departed for their homes,
feeling to praise and thank the Lord for
the feast of spiritual food He had given
them.

[Column 2]
	Ever praying for the success of the “Ex-
ponent” we remain
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
			ELIZABETH BEAN, Pres.
			CELIA E. BEAN, Sec.
	Richfield, Nov. 4, 1897.
DAVIS STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference of Davis
Stake met at Kaysville Oct. 28, 1897,
President Susan Grant presiding. There
were present on the stand President Hess
and Counselor Hyrum Grant, Sisters J. C.
Howe and L. D. Alder from Salt Lake, Presi-
dent Grant and counselors and others.
Meeting opened by singing “Let us pray
gladly pray.” Prayer by Counselor Hy-
rum Grant. Singing “The spirit of God
like a fire is burning.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and approved.
	President Grant then said, “Through the
blessings of the Lord we are permitted to
meet again in this capacity. I am afraid
we do not appreciate the blessings the Lord
is continually showing to us My counsel-
ors and I visited the northern part of the
county, we had good meetings and found
them all doing well. I want to encourage
the sisters to take the “Exponent,” I am
pleased to have Sisters Howe and Alder
with us, also our Stake presidency. I feel
well in pressing forward in the line of my
duty.” The branches of the Society were
reported by their presidents as doing well
and in good running order.
	Sister Howe said she felt somewhat diffident
being a stranger but knew the spirit of the
Lord was with us. The Prophet Joseph
Smith said this Society should be free from
the wiles of the world. The Relief Society
is educational, every member should be
interested in it. If requirement is made of
us we should feel that it is a duty. Spoke
of sustaining home literature, encouraged
the sisters to sustain the “Exponent” and
those who are struggling hard to make a
success of it. We should teach our child-
ren the principles of the Gospel and keeping
the Sabbath holy. “I can say it is good to
be here, I ask God to bless each one of
you”
	Counselor Mary Clark said “I feel happy
in meeting with you, I can truly say the
spirit of the Lord is with us.” Spoke of
the Elders who are abroad preaching the
Gospel, said she rejoiced in reading their
letters and their success. We should be
thankful for the instructions we receive
and be benefited by them. Spoke of at-
tending our meetings, if we will we shall
be better prepared to attend to our duties at
home. Prayed that we might have health
and strength to perform our duties. Meet-
ing adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing Dox-
ology. Prayer by Brother Rouche.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Commenced by
singing “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation.” Prayer by President Hess.
Singing “Stop and tell me red man.”
Minutes of the afternoon meeting of the
previous conference read and approved.
	Sister Alder then addressed the meeting:
“My brethren and sisters we have been sent
to you to day as visitors in your Society
conference, and it is not only a duty but a
pleasure in visiting with you. When the
Prophet Joseph organized the Society he
did it as a pattern of the olden times, I think
these organizations existed in the days of
the Savior. Your reports have been ex-
cellent, what a testimony it is that so many
receive the Gospel in different parts of the

[Column 3]
world. When we do anything in the Re-
lief Society we are helping ourselves, these
meetings are just our own meetings and we
can work a little extra to attend them.
Spoke about passing away, said it is like
graduating from one class to another. The
young women will have to take the places
of the older ones. Advised them to take
counsel from their mothers, referred to
Sister Marinda Hyde, how they loved her
as a president, if we live as we should do
and listen to the still small Voice we will 
know what to do, we should be careful how
we train our children, if we raise them as
we should we will have them again even if
they do go astray. Wanted to bear her
testimony that this is the work of God and
asked him to bless us all. 
	President Hess said “I have enjoyed the
spirit of the counsel, it is true that these
meetings are for the women, but the breth-
ren should be interested in them too, I do
not know of anything that is more useful
than the Relief Society, the way they con-
duct their business is good, the minutes are
correct, they bring to our mind what was
said at the last conference.” Spoke about
the necessity of attending our meetings,
said we have it in our power to draw the
blessings of the Lord down upon us if we
live as we should, and we should live so
the Lord will draw near to us and hear and
answer our prayers. Prayed the Lord to bless
the sisters who were laboring so faith-
fully in this organization and to bless us all.
	Sister Alder said “I think there is not a
soul here but what has been benefited, there
is a bond that unites the sisters that work
together. We do need encouragement, it
would not do for us to see the obstacles
that are in our path. I ask my Heavenly
Father to bless you all.”
	Counselor Jane Holt said, “I am pleased
to meet with you and I know that the
spirit of the Lord is here. I can bear my
testimony to the truth of this work and to
what has been said. Let us be diligent and
do our duty, our path is the path of duty
and let us sustain all that are over us. May
God bless us and help us to do right.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant said, “I am sure
all who are here are blest, and I can say
that I have never heard the presidents give
in their reports with as much freedom as
they have today, these sisters that have
come here today have had the faith and
prayers of the people. Now if we are for
the Kingdom of God let us sustain the
authorities and those that are over us. I
can bear my testimony that this is the
work of God and ask the Lord to bless us
all.”
	President Grant then made closing re-
marks and conference adjourned for three
months to East Bountiful. Benediction by
James Sheffield.
		PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	BY [-]h[-] offic rs and members of the Relief Soci-
ety of Nephi, Juab Co., Utah.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst our
beloved President, William Paxman,
	RESOLVED, That we recognize in his death the
loss of a father, a wise counselor and a friend.
	RESOLVED That we treasure up in our minds
and ever hold sacred the wise counsel he has
given, and strive to follow his example ever true
to the cause he so nobly and fearlessly de[-]ended.
	RESOLVED, That we tend[-]r our love and heart
felt sympathy to the bereaved family, his wives
and children and earnestly desire that the Holy


[Column 1]
Spirit may impart comfort and consolation in this
the hour of their sad afflic ion.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the members of his family, a copy to the
“Woman’s Exponent,” also one be placed upon
the records of the Society of each ward of Nephi.
			MARY PITCHFORTH, Pres.
			ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH Sec.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Emma Johnson Spa
ford who departed this life Oct. 9, 1897, after a
brief illness of only a few hours. Sister Spafford
was a gentle, unassuming Saint, the guardian
angel of her own home circle making it a para-
dise on earth for those with whom she was there
associated.
	For years she filled the position of president of
the Relief Society of A nabella, and by her
sweet charity and humility gained the sincere
love and confidence of all who knew her. On
Dec. 14, 1890, she was called to the position of
second counselor to the president of the Relief
Society of Sevier Stake, which position she filled
with unswerving integrity until the time of her
death.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our beloved sister and co- 
worker,
	RESOLVED. That we the members of the Stake
board of the Relief Society of Sevier Stake, feel
that we have lost a true and faithful worker who
was always willing to do good.
	RESOLVED, That we cherish her memory and
regard her wise counsel as worthy of emulation.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her family, one published in the “Woman’s
Exponent” and one placed upon the Stake record
of the Relief Society.
					CELIA E. BEAN, Sec.
Richfield, Utah, Oct. 27, 1897.
MARY DEER DAVIES.
	IT is with feelings of heartfelt sorrow that we
record the death of our beloved president, Sister
Mary D[-]er Davies who expired at the residence of
her daughter in Samaria, Idaho, Nov. 13, 1897,
after an illness of less than two days. Sister
Davis was born in Nearth Abbey, Glamorganshire,
South Wales, March 18, 1831, embraced the Gos-
pel in 1849, and shortly afterwards assisted in
translating the Book of Mormon into the Welsh
language.
	She emigrated in 1854, and was married the
same year to David Woodwell Daveis. She made
her home with her husband in Salt Lake City en-
during all the hardships incident to the times. In
1864 her husband died leaving her with a young
family, dependent upon her own exertions.
In 1870 she married John Evans Price and re-
moved w[-]th him to Samaria, Idaho, where she
continued to reside until her death.
	When the Y. L. M. I. A. was first organized in
Samari, she was chosen president, but did not re-
tain the office long, being called to preside over
the Relief Society in 1878, which position she has
filled honorably and efficiently for nearly twenty
years. She was the mother of ten children, seven
sons and three daughter, five of whom survive
her.
	She was a faithful Latter-day Saint, yielding
obedience to every principle of the Gospel that
was revealed to her and maintaining her integrity
to the last. She has finished her work, she has
borne her cross, she has gone to receive her
crown. We have laid her down to rest in peace,
		“Till the rising sun,
		Of the resurrection morn
		Proclaims li[-]e’s victory won.”
						ANNIE BOWEN.
JANE BELL.
	MRS. JANE PELL, an age and highly esteemed
lady of Heber, [-]ied at the residence of her son
William in Bu[-]syille, Nov 7, 1897, at the ripe age
of seventy-four years, one month and twenty-six
days.
	Deceased was the daughter of Charles and
Mary Graham and was born in Amien, Scotland,
Sep. 13, 1823 During her journey to Utah she
buri[-]d her first husband, Frank Ladlaw, and two
sons. She was afterwards married to Wm. Bell
in Salt Lake City who preceded her in death
about twelve years.
	The funeral obsequies of Sister Jane Bell were
held in the Stake house of Heber, Wasatch Co.,
Nov. 9, 1897, and were largely attended notwith-
standing the inclement weather Sister Bell
leaves two sons and two daughters and many
grandchildren as well as a host of friends to
mourn her loss.

[Column 2]
	Sister Bell, better known as Grandma Bell, was
an earnest worker in our Relief Society. She
labored diligently in whatever she was called up-
on to do, always trying to comfort and soothe
others and encourage them in the Gospel. She
was faithful to the very last, her main utterances
being prayers and her last request was for her
sons to stay with the Priesthood She was of
that kind and loving disposition that none can
help but admire.
	We as members of the Relief Society of the
Heber West ward feel that we have lost one of
our most faithful members, but we realize that
she has gained a reward well earned and we
would not call her back, but will ever cherish and
crown with fond remembrances, her name.
		NETTIE MCMULLIN, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
JUAB STAKE.
	THE seventy fourth quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of the Juab Stake was
held in the Nephi Tabernacle, Sep. 10,
1897, President Pitchforth presiding. Sing-
ing “Come we that love the Lord.” Prayer
by President Wm. Paxman. Singing
“Praise ye the Lord my heart shall join.”
Minutes of previous conference read and
approved.
	President Pitchforth was happy to have
the privilege of meeting with us, had en-
joyed listening to the minutes. Spoke of
the spirit of unity that prevailed with the
officers in the Juab Stake, desired that those
who should report would do so with the
spirit of God, and that we would have a
rich flow of that spirit in our midst. She
asked it in the name o[-] Jesus.
	Sister Wilbey, president of the 1st Ward
of Nephi, gave an excellent report of the
ward, the officers were diligent and a unity
of feeling was with them. Singing “When
Joseph his brethren beheld.”
	President Christenson of Levan gave a
good report, they were striving to keep the
commandments of God and do their duty,
the needy were well cared for. She felt
well in the Gospel and desired to do the
will of God.
	Sister Udall, president of the 2nd Ward
of Nephi, gave an excellent report, the
meetings were spiritual and well attended,
the needy were well cared for. The teach-
ers gave excellent reports, and they were
doing well temporally as well as spiritually.
Asked blessings upon all.
	Counselor Hannah Jones was thankful
to her Heavenly Father for health to meet
with us in conference, felt that all present
would rather hear Sister Wells than herself.
Urged the sisters to be faithful and true to
every duty required of them and asked the
Lord to bless all and comfort those who
had been called upon to part with their
loved ones. He alone can give comfort to
the sorrowing heart.
	Sister E. B Wells was glad to be with us
and to see those that were present, but
would have liked to have seen a great
many more. She had visited Sister Zina
Young to see if she had any message to
send to the sisters, and she sent her love
and said to encourage the young women to
help in the Relief Society. Spoke at some
length on the necessity of the young sisters
attending the Society and getting an under-
standing of the charitable work. Said the
young mothers should come and bring
their babies, and have faith that they could
keep them quiet. Spoke very nicely of
the children and said to teach the children
when they are young that they may grow
up pure and holy. Spoke of the informa-
tion needed to remove prejudice from the
women of the outside world concerning the

[Column 2]
Mormon women and the principles of the
Gospel, showing how necessary it was to
have a bureau of information. Spoke of
the need of having a building of that kind
in Salt Lake City for that purpose. Sister
Wells said she would like very much to
hear from President Paxman, prayed God
to bless our beloved Sister Pitchforth, felt
that she had been a very able president in
this Stake. Prayed the Lord to bless all
present and that we might continue in the
good work.
	President Paxman announced that we
would have an evening meeting and said
we had had an excellent time, the spirit of
peace had been with us and the love of God
had been in our midst. It was very grati-
fying to hear such reports as we had heard,
that the Saints were so liberal and the needy
so well cared for. He had been interested
and edified in listening to the remarks of
Sister Wells. She had a good chance of
meeting people that were not in our Church
and of giving the information needed, and
thought it must be something startling for
them to know of the revelations of God in
these days. He was pleased to know that
they were inquiring into these things, it
gave us an opportunity of testifying to the
work established by our prophet, Joseph
Smith. Referred to the storing of grain,
wished we had more of it. “This famine
we have talked about will surely come.”
Spoke of the suffering already in the world,
wished that all would be interested in the
storing of grain, said “God bless the babies;
bring the babies to meeting, I love them.”
Spoke of the young mothers attending the
Society, felt it would benefit them; this
Gospel would be preached to every nation,
tongue and people, and the Lord would
take His own way in doing it. He rejoiced
in all the organization of this Society, and
said “May God bless and sanctify to us all
that has been said.” Was glad to hear
good words spoken of Sister Pitchforth, we
knew her life and hoped the Lord would
spare her, invoked the blessings of God
upon all, asked it in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	Counselor Kate L. Paxman announced
that it would not be necessary to vote the
Stake and Local officers every three months,
Sister Wells had said it was sufficient every
six months
	President Pitchforth announced that our
evening meeting would convene at 7:30
o’clock, had enjoyed the remarks of Sister
Wells and felt highly pleased with the re-
ports. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Benediction by Bishop Parks.
Conference adjourned until 7:30.
	EVENING SESSION: Meeting commenc-
ing at 7:30 o’clock, President Pitchforth
presiding. Singing “Redeemer of Israel.”
Prayer by Patriarch Udall. Singing “We
thank Thee O God for a Prophet.”
	Counselor Kate L. Paxman most earnest-
ly desired an interest in our prayers that the
Lord would let His spirit direct what she
might say. Spoke of the blessings ob-
tained by doing our duty and said the ex-
ample was good, in performing our duties
we strengthened each other. Endorsed
what Sister Wells had said about the young
sisters helping the older ones in the Society,
felt that the young mothers were willing to
do all they could to help, there were bless-
ings that could only be obtained by per-
forming our duties here. Prayed God to
bless us with His spirit.


Counselor Hannah Jones was pleased to
meet with us, although it had been a great
effort to come this evening. She was
pleased to hear Sister Wells speak of the
younger sisters becoming workers in the
Society, many of the Older members need
rest, and one by one they are passing away.
Said it was a pleasure to serve the Lord and
bore a faithful testimony of this work, had
been in the Church forty-seven years and
wished to live faithful to the end of her
life. Singing “Mid scenes of confusion.”
	Sister Wells said, “Brethren and sisters I
am very pleased to meet with you, and feel
led to speak of the Prophet Joseph.” Spoke
of his goodness of heart and said he was
one of the humblest of men, was so kind to
children. He loved to hear vocal music
and was fond of poetry, was also very fond
of flowers, thought his favorite flower was
the moss-rose. He loved to see a cheerful
countenance. Spoke of the opportunities of
our young people to become great women,
said the memory of Joseph Smith was sacred
to her and she felt particularly anxious that
ther young people should know of his
wonderful work and power. Related many
other interesting things of Joseph Smith the
prophet, how inspired be was. Spoke at
length on the necessity of the young peo-
ple being educated that they may be able to
take the place of the older members, also
upon humility and of the great blessings
enjoyed in this Church by all. Closed her
remarks by thanking the sisters for their
kind attention and invoked the blessings
of the Lord upon all.
	President Pitchforth felt that the time
had been well spent, bore testimony to all
that had been said by Sister Wells and re-
lated her first experience in this Church.
She desired to go on progressing to the end
of her life and gain the blessings in store
for the faithful. Said to store up grain,
we shall need it, and asked the Lord to
bless all with a continuation of His spirit,
that we may work together in unity.
	Singing “Lord dismiss us with Thy
blessing.” Prayer by President Paxman.
Conference adjourned for three months.
	ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall Saturday, Oct. 30, 1897, Sister E. J.
Stevenson presiding. Singing “O Jesus
the Giver.” Prayer by Sister Mary P.
Silver. Singing “O say what is truth.”
Sister Stevenson made some opening re-
marks, urged the sisters to read the scrip-
tures, especially the Book of Mormon, also
was very earnest in her advice to mothers
in regard to being careful what we said be-
fore our children, felt we had a great in-
fluence over those with whom we came in
contact and what an exertion we should
make to have that influence for good.
	The secretary having arrived the minutes
of the previous meeting were read and ac-
cepted.
	Sister Hannah Wright bore a most ex-
cellent testimony. Singing “The spirit of
God like a fire is burning.”
	Dr. E. S. Barney, who had been absent
from the city for about three months, felt
she had better give an account of her trip.
Said she had been in Colorado with her
brother and that they had had a very happy
time together. She told the sisters not to
be weary in well doing, and made some

[Column 2]
rousing good remarks, touched slightly on
politics.
	Sister Maria Nebeker said she had been
so much mixed up with temporal things
that she felt hungry for the spiritual. The
speaker thought that those who were born
in the Church were more careless than those
who had made greater sacrifices for the Gos-
pel’s sake; therefore she felt to have a
great deal of charity for the young. Asked
the sisters if they did not remember how
happy we were when we asked advice of
every kind when President Young was
alive, hoped those days would come again.
	Sister Martha Morris spoke of prayer,
said if our prayers were not answered in
just the way we expected them to be, the
Lord would show which was best for us.
	Sister Rawlings said she had been absent
for some time and bore her testimony. 
	Sister Maria Barnes spoke of her Temple
work and said when she was in the Temple
it was the happiest days of her life. Re-
ferred to a blessing Aunt Zina Young gave
her in the Temple and how it had been ful-
filled. Said her desire and intention was to
vote for good men,asked God’s blessings on
all our aged sisters and upon President
Woodruff.
	President Zina Young said she had heard
so many sermons today; every word which
had been uttered was a gem. Said she
heard Joseph Smith say that ‘‘he now turn-
ed the key for woman.” She knew that he
had and that we felt it now. Said those
who feared God often spoke one to another,
felt we were truly blest when we did come
together, and made many beautiful re-
marks. Said she knew our sisters were
good and urged the sisters to read the book
of Covenants. She felt proud of the
daughters of Zion and said it was her inten-
tion to visit her daughter in Canada, she
would be absent for some time. Asked the
sisters to pray for her that she might do
much good while there and also come back
home in safety. Prayed God’s blessings
upon us all.
	Sister Margaret P. Young spoke upon
unity and humility, and knew if the peo-
ple would all be more united the Lord
would bless us greatly.
	Sister Sarah Phelps spoke in tongues,
which was interpreted by Sister Elizabeth
Paul and was a prayer for the 
daughters of Zion and the rising generation.
	Sister Julia Samson spoke of the oppres-
sion which the people were laboring under
at the present time and felt that now was
the time which Brother Heber C. Kimball
prophecied of.
	Singing “The trials of the present day.”
Sister Lydia D. Alder felt the truthfulness
of President Woodruff’s remarks when he
said that the end was near. Read from the
Book of Nephi and the Book of Mormon,
felt that the chapter first read applied to us
today but felt that the Lord would work it
around all right for us if we would only be
obedient.
	Sister Mary Silver wondered if we appre-
ciated the privilege which we now enjoy of
having the franchise, felt we were indeed a
privileged people, bore her testimony.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson made a few clos-
ing remarks and announced that President
Horne was at a conference at Goshen.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “There is a feast of fat things” etc.
Benediction by Counselor Elizabeth Webb.

				ZINA H. BULL, Sec.


Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

[Union Pacific logo with the following written on it]
UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE

[the following is written next to the Union Pacific logo]
The
People's
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt L[-]ke City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
"The Overland Limited" for Chicago,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City......... 7:00 a.m.
"The Fast Mail," for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver........................... 6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
"The Overland Limited," from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City.......... 3:10 p.m.
"The Fast Mail," from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver.................... 0 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
S. H. H. CLARK,
OLIVER W. MINK,
E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
JOHN W. DOANE,
FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
Receivers.
E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
VOL. 26 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DEC. 15, & 31, 1897 No. 14


CONTENTS:
	Thanksgiving in the New England Hills—E.
B. W. Address—R. B. Pratt. A Gold[-]n Wed-
ding— M. A. Hyde. R. S. Reports. In Memoriam.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina H. Bu 1,
Sec. Washi gton’s Last Will and Testament
Notes and News. An Amendment.
	EDITORIAL:—Chri tmas and the Children. Mus-
ings and Memories. A Welcome Visi or. Coloni-
al Tea Party. For the Colonial Tea Party at
Aunt Em’s. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—The Holly—Maria Le Baron. Wo-
man’s Appeal—Bertha M. Wixon. Companions
R. H. Sto-dard.


THE HOLLY.
Imperishable green the holly leaves,
And bright a bloo[-] the berry red that weaves
Its brilliance throug[-] the tangled branches dense:
No bird can build within its spiked fence,
N[-]r sun in-penetrate its leafy deeps
Where the undying tree-bound spirit sleeps.
It stands within the churchyard w[h]ere the graves
Rise in their grassy ranks, like broken waves,
And sturd[-]er grows as man in dea h is laid
Pulseless beneath its bl[-]ck, unvar[-]ing shade.
T[-]e Summers call with song, and bee, and flower;
Its leaves shake off the touch of vernal shower;
The Autumn flings her radiance far and wide
Till ear[-]h is garbe[-] in beauty as a br[-]de—
Yet ever stands the holly d[-]rk, severe,
Like a grim warder o’er a fickle ye[-]r.
The Wi[-]ter com[-]s; go[-]e i[-] t[-]e lea[-]y shade,
That, ate, earth’s Ori n[-]t nt of splend[-]r made;
The vines, like serpents fiery-eyed, turn brown,
And blossoms th[-]ow their g[-]rlands withe[-]ed down;
Still sh[-]nes the ho ly with its hoa[-]y hedge,
An[-] r[-]dde berries flash along i s edge;
The snows new-fallen, doth it ligh ly toss
To gleam, like emerald, for the Christmas cross.
Now is its victory ! in the f[-]stive hal[-]
Its glit-ering leaves enwreat the [-]ictured wall;
Above the firep ace where the hickor[-] glows,
Its s[-]irit, framed, fo[-]gets the threa ened snows,
Upon the board where wine and wit are t[-]roned;
It, rustling, aughs a[-] ch[-]rchyar[-] wind th[-]t moaned,
And where it [-]angs on high, o’er maide[-]’s head.
It hears the Christmas vows of lovers said.
Strange typ[-] of life art [-]hou, O holly brave!
With str ng roots, coral-like round mouldering
grave,
Bearing the win[-]er’s storm, the summer’s sun,
While changing decades of man’s race are run;
Twin of grim Dea[-]h whose shadow mocks our
way,
And cho[-]en comrade of our Christmas day !
MARIA LE BARON.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING IN THE NEW
	ENGLAND HILLS.

IT was a dark, gray November day
near Thanksgiving time, and Jake the hired
man came in all in a flutter with the mail,
for the letters were anxiously looked for-
ward to in that out of the way suburb of
the town; there was a great open fire of
pine knots and Squire Wentworth and his
wife were enjoying the calm of the evening
twilight, as well as the blazing fire. The
curtains were not drawn bnt the day's

[Column 2]

work was over and the Squire reading his
newspaper, the very picture of content, his
wife busy with her needle; but when the
letters were brought in both father and
mother eagerly opened one after the other,
and as there were several in reply to in-
vitations to come home to Thanksgiving,
these were read first, and then all at once
looking up from her letters, Mrs. Went-
worth exclaimed, "After all Rosetta Stacy
says she's coming up here to Thanksgiving!
do you hear that father?" And the Squire
replied, "And so she's condescended to
come has she? well I declare, what a sur-
prise ! I must say her upstartishness beats
all I ever heard; what did you say mother
about her refusing last year when you
asked her? I remember she was pretty
impertinent."
"Well father, I told you she refused out
and out, and gave no reason except that she
hated the country in Winter, and it was
not fit for civilized people up here in the
woods anyway; that's just about what she
said only those might not be the exact
words."
"What did you ask her again for after
such a flat refusal, it's the same time o'year
and the weather is just the same in Novem-
ber any way, it's blustering cold most
times, gray and damp-like if it don't blow
like Sancho, why I'd have had too much
pride to ask her again; I'd like to know if
our girls arn't as good as she is any day, if
she has been to Smith College and got
away up in elocution and all that sort
o' thing; it beats me what the country's
coming to with such high falutin notions as
the young folks have nowadays, and our
own colleges even not good enough, they
must go abroad to finish."
"Well father I'll tell you why I sent
Rosetta another invitation as you seem to
resent it so, our boy, Fred is coming home
to Thanksgiving and he's over head and
ears in love with this stylish young woman,
you know how anxious you've been about
Fred's future, and he's all the boy we have
to keep up the family name, you've been
telling me that for the last six years ever
since he first went away to school, and he'll
never marry unless he can get Rosetta
Stacy. And so I determined to try once
more to have her come up here and see us,
you remember when she was a little girl
her mother would have her come for a
month or two once a year at least, to get
the fresh air and romp with the girls, and
'twas then Fred fell in love with her and
he's never cared about any girl since, and
he's seen plenty of them, as you know."
"Well now mother your explanation's all
very well, but the girls are all away now
and you haven't much help, that Carter
girl don't know how to wait on table, and
Fred's pretty particular himself, and you've
been cooking this whole week and there's
no chance of getting extra help at Thanks-
giving time, everybody wants their own at
home then if they're ever so poor, and if
Susan and Marian come home they'll be tir-
ed and everlastingly drumming on the piano
and then the others'll bring their babies,

[Column 3]

and by George, I don't want any citified,
stuckup young woman around; I'm mighty
sorry she's coming anyway, I wish she'd re-
fused again for my part."
"O don't say that father she'll soon be
here, and we've plenty of room so you can
have a good time with the babies and not
see much of her nor hear the piano either,
unless you want to, and now I think of it
the girls'll not play when Rosetta's here,
for she is a professional."
"How many professions has she got, she's
an elocutionist and a pianist, knows Greek
and Latin, we'll all stand in awe of her I
suppose, though her mother was my cousin
and born up here in the woods as she calls
it; and I'd like to have a little of Fred's
company myself. Let me see he's been
away most of the time now well on to six
years, and if he's going to settle in Boston
we wont see him very often, you and me
mother, we can't be going up and down to
Boston much its about time now we took
things easy."
Mrs. Wentworth loved her boy Fred
very much and she would willingly make
any sacrifice for him, but she did think
'twas too bad he was going to settle away
from them, she had always expected until
recently that he would stay near them but
he was very ambitious and there wasn't so
much chance forgetting on in the professions
in out of the way places, and as she sat in a
brown study thinking of that and of the old
times when the children were all at home,
and the Squire dropped asleep, and the
house was so still you might have heard a
pin drop but for the heavy breathing of the
sleeper, and Mrs. Wentworth took up
Fred's letter again and read it over and
the tears trickled down her face as she
thought of the days when they were all
around her and the noise and games and
merry laughter at even-time; and her own
happy motherhood, for she had been a fond
mother and her children had all grown up,
four were married now and had homes of
their own and little ones, and two were still
at school not far away and Fred, why he
was no longer a boy, his letter was like that
of a man of the world, and she realized
more than ever how utterly alone they were
after all the years that had passed.
	The maid came in to say tea was ready
and she brushed her tears away and woke
her husband, how many times it had been
so since the children were gone, but she
had not felt so depressed until of late. The
Squire seemed to have forgotten the near
approach of Thanksgiving and his wife was
glad to be left to her reveries, but ere the
meal was finished they were aroused by the
loud knocker, and a well known voice call-
ing "mother," and the buoyant young man
who had thrown off all restraint on reaching
his country home, made the empty house
resound with his hearty greetings.
"We didn't expect you so soon, not till
tomorrow anyway," said the Squire, "why
didn't you send a message, we never heard
the carriage wheels and the house so still,
how's that?"
"I came over on horseback from the


[Column 1]
station, my trunks are left there, I wanted
to see how things were at home before
Rosetta came up and be here to meet her,
we’re engaged now,” this last remark with
an exultant tone as though it was a re-
markable feat accomplished.
	“That’s it, is it Fred why I’ve just been
telling mother I wished she wasn’t coming.
We don’t know what to do up here with
such stylish people, we’re only old-
fashioned country folks you know, no velvet
carpets nor silk curtains nor cut glass and
fine silver, and we’re not prepared to enter-
tain fine people nowadays.”
	“Now father, what about your own ca-
reer down in Boston sitting in the legisla-
ture year after year?”
	“O ’twas different then, folks were plain-
er, and it wasn’t all style and fashion, and
your mother here was something of a belle,
as much at home there then as I was my-
self—she was a pretty fine dancer in those
days, knew the minuet and Roger de
Coverly, and wasn’t much of a wall flower
ever; but its all changed now and we’re
out of date and home is the best place for
us.”
	“I don’t dispute that fact, but there’ll
have to be some fixing up here now within
a day or two. Tomorrow there’ll be some
new carpets and furniture coming and we’ll
have to look up some help,” this with a
great air of consequence.
	Mr. and Mrs. Wentworth looked at each
other, guessing what it all meant but with-
uot saying so, only “What do you mean
Fred just as we are to celebrate Thanks-
giving and all the folks coming home, turn-
ing the house upside down,” and as Fred
made no reply his father exclaimed, “Isn’t
the house we’ve lived in these forty years
and more, and where you and all the others
were born, good enough for her to come to?
Its all very strange and incomprehensible.”
	“That isn’t the question, I’m going to
be married, and besides Rosetta there will
be her father and mother and brother and
the minister and bridesmaids, and some
other college friends of mine.”
	This in one breath was overwhelming;
they had guessed there was to be a wedding
when the carpets and furniture were men-
tioned, but to think of a minister from Bos-
ton, that was rather more than they could
stand. What would folks think and where
were they to put all these fine people? And
poor Mrs. Wentworth puzzled her brain all
night long contriving where they would all
sleep and what to do for help in such an
emergency. There was plenty of linen, if
it wasn't fine, and blankets and quilts and
feather beds in abundance that was some
consolation she told the Squire, tho’ he did
not seem to answer, and finally she stopped
talking, but no sleep for her, it was too ex-
citing, and to think of the strange minister,
and would he bring his wife, and was he
orthodox, and a hundred other things that
puzzled her. She was glad when morning
came so she could be doing something for
she could not be still when so many things
must be changed.
	Before the family had finished breakfast
the wagons drove in from the station with
the household goods, and Jake had hunted
up some workmen and the Carter girl’s
mother came, and a colored women who
did the washing and all day long there was
noise enough, such as had never been heard
in that old house, never since they had re-
modelled it more than a quarter of a century
before. Fred jammed his fingers trying to
help, and the Squire lamed his arm and

[Column 2]
Mrs. Wentworth cried until her eyes were
very red and her head ached for want of
sleep, but neither the Squire nor his wife
had a word to say about the changes for
Fred was master of the situation evidently;
and though his mother was curious to know
about the minister she dreaded to ask, and
he had not even told them his name nor
how it was the marriage was to take place
up in the country so hurriedly, but towards
evening when the workmen were gone and
there seemed to be a lull in the noise and
bustle and Mrs. Wentworth was ready to
drop with fatigue, the last straw was added
by Fred informing them that the minister
was a Unitarian and so were all the Stacys,
and that was why he had decided to have
one from Boston, knowing there were only
orthadox ministers in Wendell. The
Squire was “awfully upset,” as he ex-
pressed it afterwards, and Mrs. Wentworth
cried until near bedtime “and to think of it,
after all the teachings her boy had that he
should consent to such a thing,” was her
comment to her husband who kept silent
on the subject.
	Late that night another greater surprise
came, it was near midnight and they sat
talking in the great oaken dining room
when a knock like thunder came at the
door, and even the old Squire brave as he
was started to his feet calling out in a
trembling voice, “who’s there.” Mrs.
Wentworth was shivering with fear, but
Fred had rushed thro’ the hall to the door
in a moment and ushered in the stranger,
a gruff voice and foreign accent and yet to
the Squire something familiar in the tones,
and Fred without ceremony announced
Uncle Edward Wentworth, all the way
from South Africa. The Squire would
have fallen had not Fred caught him and
carefully seated him; he couldn’t speak at
first and Mrs. Wentworth looked as if she
had seen a ghost. It was indeed as tho’
one had risen from the dead. The brother
had been gone for more than fifty years, he
had run away when a lad, and hearing
after some years of the death of his father,
his mother having died when he was very
young previous to his escapade, he had
roamed about in foreign parts seeking his
fortune and not finding it, and at last hav-
ing made a lucky hit and realized wealth,
all at once he had a desire to know bow it
had fared with his folks in America. Ar-
riving in Boston only a few days before he
looked over the newspaper and saw the
name of Fred Wentworth of Wendell, son
of Squire Wentworth, who had figured
conspicuously in politics in early days. It
was an announcement of young Went-
worth’s engagement to Miss Stacy, the only
daughter of a wealthy shipping merchant
whose wife (the girl’s mother) was a cousin
of Squire Wentworth. He pushed his in-
quiries further and hunted up the young
man, and was introduced to the Stacys, and
of course his cousin Adelaide was glad to
see him and Miss Stacy was romantic
enough to fancy the rich bachelor uncle her
mother’s cousin, and after that everything
went on swimmingly with the young folks,
and the uncle and nephew arranged to
keep the matter a secret and not give the
newspapers a chance to publish it until
they were safe out of Boston.
	Squire Wentworth and his brother sat up
all that night talking over old times, and
Fred whose secret was now exploded slept
soundly; even poor Mrs. Wentworth
thoroughly exhausted with the happenings
and confusion after the lonely quiet to

[Column 3]
which she had become accustomed of late,
rested better than usual. As a matter of
fact she had as she thought fixed comforta-
bly for every guest, for the house was large
and roomy, and she only wondered now
what was to be done with the new comer,
and she declared to herself as she was fall-
ing asleep that he didn’t look as if he ever
had slept in a bed, muffled up as he was in
furs, and so dreaming of diamonds and the
Boers of South Africa of which her brother
in law had been talking when she retired
for the night, she fell into a profound and
restful sleep.
	Morning came foggy and dismal but the
house was bright and cheery and every-
thing in “apple pie order” the Squire said.
The girls arrived fresh from school at
Greenfield, and their dainty ways in ar-
ranging the pictures, flowers etc.. were
quite refreshing. “No nonsense about our
girls,” their father remarked to mamma,
“I wouldn’t tolerate it in them, and
Greenfield is a staid, old town not like
Boston and seaside places.” But indeed
the girls were not so very young, and the
father who looked upon Marian as almost a
baby tho’ even she was over twenty, re-
marked to the mother “he was mighty glad
there were no young fellows dangling after
them.”
	The girls were as much surprised at the
sudden transition in the house as the old
folks and much more delighted, their uncle
was simply charming, in story telling es-
pecially; it was like a romance and Susan
who was inclined to be literary declared
she would write it up in a story and people
would think it wasn’t real at all.
	Towards evening the crowd began to
come and before the last train from Boston
all the married daughters had arrived and
were posted on the affairs of the family.
Uncle Edward explained some things and
told stories of his travels and played with
the little folks, and promised them stores of
goodies; and Fred took upon himself to tell
his sisters of the nuptials about to be sol-
emnized, and later ran down to the station
with the carriage sent to meet the bridal
party.
	The Carters and the help had set the
neighborhood gossiping, and those who had
usually been invited when there was any
great doings at Squire Wentworth’s were in
a flutter of excitement about an invitation to
the wedding, and altogether the whole affair
proved to be a “nine days’ wonder.” Even
the wedding cake was sent from Boston,
and all sorts of fruits and dainties the great
city afforded at that season.
	The guests were late for the drive was
long and the country roads rough, and the
ladies unaccustomed to jostling, the drivers
must be careful Fred had told them, and so
the coming was slow and tedious. Over
the Wentworth home there was a hush of
expectancy during the interval, and though
there was so much to talk about the only
one who seemed inclined to converse was
Uncle Edward; he had the easy, careless
air of of a man to whom no surprise brings
seriousness. At last the carriages driving
up the lane was a signal for all to be on
hand and the great piazza was full of peo-
ple as the guests alighted, and as the night
air was damp and cold, the hour late and
the travelers weary the greetings were ex-
ceedingly formal and perhaps a trifle dis-
tant, at any rate somewhat embarrassing.
	After a light supper, and a really deli
cious one, the guests were shown to thei
apartments and the minister who had n


[Column 1]
wife with him was young looking, and the
bridesmaids very pretty. The family sat
up late and discussed the morrow's pro-
gram. They must be married in the par-
lor at home; for the village meeting house
was not open to any but orthodox people,
and the ceremony was to be performed at
high noon, and they were to sit down to
dinner at three, and the evening was to be
a quiet one with their own family and
guests, and the following morning the
wedding party would depart. Uncle Ed-
ward would remain for a time but he in-
formed them that previous to leaving Bos-
ton it had been arranged that Fred and his
wife should go out to South Africa with
him.
	This was another cruel blow to the mother
and she heartily wished Uncle Edward
back with the Boers, and did not hesitate to
tell him so.
	"Wait till Fred comes back rich and
you'll change your mind Fanny, it will be
ever so much better than practising his
profession in Boston, besides he is really a
man of affairs and with his knowledge on
general subjects, he'll make his fortune out
there in a chartered company."
	There is no time to tell you of the wed-
ding finery, nor the dinner that followed,
which was decidedly an old fashioned and
substantial one though served somewhat
elaborately. The bride in white satin and
orange blossoms was a perfect picture of
loveliness though she did not unbend to
Fred's family, not even during the con-
gratulations, and her mother felt called up-
on to make all sorts of apologies for her
lack of cordiality and friendliness. Fred
could not see it, love is blind now as of old,
and his mother and sisters were too fond of
him to speak of it.
	Squire Wentworth remarked aside to his
wife, “She’ll get that silly pride taken out
of her when she gets away among the
Boers.” But as for herself she spoke of
ostriches and diamonds and the wealth they
would accumulate as though it were a fairy
tale, and so it seemed to her undoubtedly,
such is the hope and trustfulness of youth
and inexperience.
	The evening was dull, the mother was
sad with thoughts of the parting so soon to
come, and even the Squire was glad when it
was time for the guests to retire who were
to take the morning train.
	As usual in homes where the unusual
occurs the family, except the newly wedded
pair, sat long and late by the hearthstone
talking over the events of the day and dis-
cussing Fred’s future, what it was likely to
be with his haughty wife. “Its very
evident she holds her head high above us,”
said the Squire. "Never mind," put in
Mrs. Wentworth, “if she only truly loves
Fred we can forgive everything else in her.”
But her face quivered as she thought of the
parting on the morrow, and the long jour-
ney that lay before them. No sleep for
Mrs. Wentworth and the morning found
her pale and trembling.
	In a few hours after breakfast the party
made their adieux, the Squire and his brother
seeing them to the station. Perhaps the
disdain of the bride helped the sisters to
bear up better than if she had been gentle,
they felt so outraged, but Susan had made
an impression on the young minister al-
though she dare not acknowledge it even to
herself, as love in its true simplicity never
does and it gave her courage, however,
and her buoyancy helped her mother and
sisters to bear up more bravely; courage in

[Column 2]
those around us is uplifting always.
	Uncle Edward whose trunks had only
just come from the train began to display
his Eastern silks and trinkets and the girls
were interested directly, as what girls are
not with elegant and costly goods and bric-a
brac. There was some rich present for
every one, though he had not known how
many relatives he had when the goods were
purchased. And so thanks to the rich and
generous uncle the Thanksgiving ended
happily, even the babies were remembered
and there were great promises made for the
future. Mrs. Wentworth tried to be cheer-
ful but it was difficult, as it is for any
mother when the loved ones go out from
the home; but the girls were to remain at
home now their school days were practical-
ly over and they would not be quite so
lonely until they too would leave the old
home. Uncle Edward meantime divulged
another secret and that settled the query in
all their minds why Rosetta Stacy left her
grand home in Boston and came up there
to be married; it was simply because Uncle
Edward would not consent to a fashionable
Boston wedding.
	When Thanksgiving came around again
a year after, Susan and the young minister
from Boston were united in marriage in the
same old parlor, Squire Wentworth himself
officiating in the ceremony.
	Only the Squire’s baby, as he called
Marian, was left at the old homestead now
to keep the old folks company and she had
fallen in love with one of Fred’s college
friends, who made frequent visits to
Wendell and seemingly with great expecta-
tions.
	And so the Thanksgiving those country
people expected to have enjoyed in quiet
country fashion, feasting on the usual
wholesome viands without much ceremony
but with genuine hospitality and great
thankfulness to Him who had bestowed
such a bounteous measure of happiness
and plenty, had found all their plans frus-
trated and the unexpected and unforeseen
had come to pass; and so we often find it in
this life on holidays and other days.
	Rosetta’s letters to her mother from Cape
Colony were not filled with diamonds nor
even ostrich feathers and Fred has not yet
notified the Squire of an heir to perpetuate
the name of Wentworth.
	[-]ew England Thanksgivings are very
dignified affairs, every one is expected to
do his best to lay aside all ill feeling. all
nonsense even until after the dinner is
served, which is really a state occasion.
No frivolity is tolerated in the old families,
church in the morning, and always extra
musical exercises and special thanksgiving
expressed in the prayers. The homes, and
more especially the dining rooms, are pro-
fusely decorated with evergreens and red
winter berries which make a most charming
background, and are a sort of gladness to
the eye and the heart at this sombre season
of the year.
	There are various traditions extant in re-
gard to Thanksgiving, and it is difficult to
decide which of these is likely to be true,
but that matters little, it has become an es-
tablished and honored custom and should
be scrupulously observed by all in being
truly thankful to our Father in heaven for
all His mercies to His children and the
manifestations of His goodness, and in this
simple way teach lessons of veneration and
gratitude to the Giver of all good gifts.
E. B. W.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S APPEAL.

O NEVER yet has freedom called in vain
On woman’s hand or woman’s brain,
Through shadowy stretch of fleeting years,
See her undaunted by her fears,
Set forth from kindred and her native strand,
To dwell thence forth in foreign land;
Then truth was loosed from angry bigots thrall,
Woman had answered Freedom’s call.

To seventeen hundred and seventy-six:
Now turn the page and read the tricks
Of guile and greed and royal lust of gold
That wrenched the States from British hold,
Then in that contest woman bore a part,
Sent forth her sons with cheerful heart
To fight for liberty, perchance to fall,
And thus she answered Freedom’s call.

The Nineteenth Century on roll of fame
Has oft inscribed a woman's name;
She had trod the field, the hospital, the tent,
Ever on kind mission bent,
She listened to the soldier’s parting breath
And eased his painful way to death;
With charity and helpful hand to all,
She bravely answered Freedom’s call.

When school and college opened wide their doors
Eager she drank from wisdom’s stores.
To liberty with outstretched hands she turns,
And begs the right she fairly earns,
That legislators break those chains disgracing
Ranking her with class degrading.
O brothers, let your deed our hope forestall;
’Tis yours to answer Freedom’s call.

BERTHA M. WIXON.
—Woman’s Tribune.


COMPANIONS.

WE have companions, comrade mine;
	Jolly good fellows tried and true,
Are filling their cups with Rhenish wine,
	And pledging each other as I do you.
Never a man in all the land
	But has, in his hour of need, a friend,
Who stretches to him a helping hand
	And stands by him to the bitter end.
If not before, there is comfort then,
In the strong companionship of men.

But better than that, old friend of mine.
	Is the love of woman, the life of life,
Whether in maiden’s eyes it shine,
	Or melts in the tender kiss of a wife;
A heart contented to feel, not know.
	That finds in the other its sole delight;
White hands that are loth to let us go,
	The tenderness that is more than might!
On earth below, in heaven above,
Is there anything better than woman’s love?

I do not say so, companion mine,
	For what, without it, would I be here?
It lightens my tronbles, like this good wine,
	And, if I must weep, sheds tear for tear!
But books, old friends that are always new,
	Of all good things that we know are best;
They never forsake us, as others do,
	And never disturb our inward rest.
Here is truth in a world of lies,
And all that in man is great and wise!

Better than men and women, friend,
	That are dust, though dear in our joy and pain,
Are the books their cunning hands have penned,
	For they depart, but the books remain;
Through these they speak to us what was best
	In the loving heart and the noble mind:
All their royal souls po[-]sessed
	Belongs forever to all mankind!
When others fail him, the wise man looks
To the sure companionship of books.
R. H. STODDARD.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, & 31 1897.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS AND THE CHILDREN.

	CHILDRENS’ day we often hear on cer-
tain juvenile occasions, and somehow it has
come to be sort of proverbial to call Christ-
mas the childrens’ day and a very pretty
idea it is and appropriate too when it is ob-
served as the day on which the infant Jesus
was born in Bethlehem of Judea. Most of
the children of the present day are familiar
with the Madonna, some of those cheap
ones are very striking in beauty and are
gems in their way; it is good to have the
little ones comprehend as nearly as possible
the simple story of the babe in the manger
and his beautiful mother, and the story of
the shepherds watching their flocks by
night, and the wise men who saw the star in
the East and came to worship the new born
babe and brought precious gifts to him, be-
cause he was the Savior. No sweeter story
was ever told and it never grows old how
ever often it is repeated, and one never
tires of hearing it who has the spirit of the
Gospel.
	Christ loved little children and he told
his disciples, “Except ye become as these
little ones ye shall in no wise enter the
kingdom of heaven.” The very simplicity
of the language in which our Savior taught
the people clothes it with a significant
beauty and makes it all the more touching
to the human heart. All his sayings are
like precious gems cut and polished for the
setting and fitted in the places as though
carved for the special service. And there-
fore on this day set apart to celebrate his
birth, all our thoughts should be pure like
unto him and all our deeds good, and for
the good of those to whom we minister and
all our words should be kind and gentle and
loving.
	It is good to be happy and to make others
happy who are round about us, we should
try to do some little thing for others even
if we cannot do much and do it for a lov-
ing service, that we may walk in his foot-
steps and follow his perfect example of love
and blessedness.
	In doing these things children will learn
to love the Savior, and he will seem near
to them if they are always seeking to please
him and keep the “Golden Rule” he has
given to all of us, “Do to others as you
would they should do to you.” these
were the Savior’s words and this is the
teaching little children should receive, and
if they do these things happiness will come
even though every wish of their hearts has
not been gratified.
	Children of the present day have much

[Column 2]
more done for them than formerly and the
present age of the world seems one in
which children are more considered than
they ever were before, and the tendency
may be to make them selfish and exacting
unless great wisdom is used by parents and
teachers in their training. It is good to
have love but not too much indulgence, not
even on holidays.
	The children should be made as happy as
possible with nice and comfortable gifts
from those who love them, but meantime
remember the Lord gives us all things and
it is to him we must be grateful for all
blessings.
	When the Saints who settled these val-
leys came here they asked the Lord in
humility and in faith to bless this land and
make it fruitful, to prosper them and multi-
ply their blessings temporally and spiritual-
ly. The Lord heard and answered their
prayers, and the land overflows with plenty
and we and our children must not forget
that the Lord has given us these great
blessings.
	In the early days our children who are
now men and women with children of their
own, did not have the good things that are
so plentiful now, and the mothers and fath-
ers gave them any little, simple gifts at
such times and were very glad if they had
warm clothes and plain food to give the lit-
tle ones, and the children were as content
with rag dolls and molasses candy and 
doughnuts and pop-corn as they are now
with the abundance of sweetmeats and wax
dolls and ornaments of all sorts. Then we
used to tell the children stories for there
were few books to give them, now they 
have story books in abundance and papers 
for children full of nice little things fun-
ny and curious to please and delight them.
What good men and women they ought to
be when they grow up with all these condi-
tions and opportunities.
	On the blessed Christmas day let us hope
there will not be a hungry child or an un-
happy one in all Utah, but every one be
provided with plenty to eat so they may be
free from anxiety on that one day in all the
year, and if every one who has plenty and
to spare will give to one poor family, then
to be sure there will be no want in all the
land and every heart will be made glad.


MUSINGS AND MEMORIES.

	MRS. E. B. WELLS book of poems so
long promised has been issued and is now
ready for distribution to those who have
subscribed, and is also for sale at the office
of the “Woman's Exponent,” Templeton
Block, opposite the Deseret News Building
on South Temple.
	The book contains over three hundred
pages and a steel engraving of the author.
Musings and Memories is handsomely
bound and the Sego Lily on the outside
gives an artistic finish to its appearance. It
will make an appropriate Christmas or New
Year’s gift. The prices are, for leather
bindings $2.00, cloth in lilac or green,
white and gilt $1.50, cloth in one color
$1.25. All have the steel engraving and
the sego lily. As there is only a limited
number in the edition those who wish them
should purchase immediately.


MISS JANE ADDAMS, of Hull House, ad-
dressed the Chicago Political Equality
League on Nov. 6.


A WELCOME VISITOR.

	MRS. MARGARET F. STEEL, president of 
the Relief Society of the 1st Ward in Salt 
Lake City, recently received a visit from 
her sister from whom she had been separat- 
ed for more than forty years. Mrs. Wal-
worth, Mrs. Steel’s sister, resides at pre-
sent in Andover, Mass., and is a member
of the Congregational church at that place.
Formerly she lived at Lawrence where her
husband was engaged in manufacturing
dress goods. It was at Lawrence, Mass.,
that the sisters parted when Mrs. Steel
came to Utah. Mrs. Walworth arrived
November 5, and the following Sunday at-
tended the fast meeting in the 1st Ward, and
spoke a few moments of her pleasure in
being in their midst. Afterwards she spoke
in the Relief Society meeting in that ward
and said she was proud of her sister presid-
ing over such a Society, organized for works
of charity.
	Mrs. Walworth in visiting places of in-
terest visited the Hall of Relics in which
she found great pleasure, and in fact she
enjoyed all she saw and heard while here,
and thinks she may return here if she can
make satisfactory disposal of her property
in the East. John Farquahar, brother of
Mrs. Steel, is a prominent citizen in Glas-
gow, Scotland, having been City Council-
man for many years and now holds the
office of Bailif for life appointed by the
queen.
	Brother and Sister Alexander Steel are
old residents of Salt Lake City and highly
respected, and although they have no fam-
ily except themselves they are happy in
each other’s society and as members of the
Church of Jesus Christ with which they be-
came identified years ago in their native
land, which they left to gather with the
Saints in Zion.


A MOVEMENT is now on foot in St. Louis
Mo., to secure a medal of honor from Con-
gress for Mrs. Delina Roberts, of 4267
Chouteau Avenue, for heroic action during
the Civil War, when she was only sixteen
years old. President McKinley has laid
the matter before the War Department, and
it is expected that it will be acted upon
soon after Congress assembles.


COLONIAL TEA PARTY.

	ON Thursday, December 16, 1897, the
anniversary of the Boston Tea Party, in
1773, Mrs. E. B. Wells, who had issued in-
vitations to thirty ladies, gave a Colonial
Tea at her residence in East Waterloo to
celebrate the occasion. The guests were
all New England women or descendants of
New Englanders. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, who has recently returned from
her visit to Canada, was present and she is
a direct descendant of Samuel Huntington,
one of the signers of the Declaration of In-
dependence—Mrs. Jane S. Richards of
Ogden, who on the maternal side is descend-
ed from the famous Comstock family of
New England, and there were others
present who can claim the best of Puritan
blood, one whose ancestor came in the cele-
brated Mayflower, others whose forefathers
were governors and members of Continent-
al Congresses before the Revolution.
	The costumes were colonial or nearly
so, ringlets and high combs were worn and


quaint old jewelry, reticules, shawls and
laces; and as one lady humorously remark-
ed, “old-fashioned faces.”
	The program was quite original in style
and commenced with the company joining
in singing “America.” Mrs. Annie W.
Cannon read the poem entitled “A Colonial
Tea,” which begins:

	“There was an old lady lived over the sea,  
		And she was an island queen,
	Her daughter lived off in a new country,
		With an ocean of water between.”

	The burden of this song is the three pen-
ny tax on tea and ending with telling the
queen she could have her tea when it was
steeped enough but not the tax. Mrs.
Isabel Buchholz read “The Boston Tea
Party,” a very pretty story in verse.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt gave quite a dissertation
on the whole affair, beginning with the
stamp act and going through the entire his-
tory of the treachery of Gen. Hutchinson
and other traitors, the meeting in Faneuil
Hall and Old South Church, the eloquent
speeches by Josiah Quincy and others, to the
time when the three ship loads of tea were
poured into the sea.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp spoke of her visit to
Boston and Plymouth in 1895, and de-
scribed Plymouth Rock and so forth, the
hostess offering some explanations on the
subject and giving her idea of these historic
places and mementoes.
	Miss Pearl Russell sang “I cannot sing
the old songs,” etc., very sweetly indeed.
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze read some verses she
had composed for the occasion that were
very appropriate
	Little Louise B. Cannon sang “The
Good old Days of Yore,” with gestures etc.,
and little Margaret Cannon recited “That’s
the Way of the World You Know.” Other 
ladies present gave expression to patriotic
sentiments or told anecdotes, and the time
passed merrily. Refreshments were strictly
in New England style, Boston brown-bread
and butter, plain cake and fruit, and as it
was treason to drink tea, all guests were
served with hot water unless they preferred
cold.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FOR THE COLONIAL TEA PARTY AT
AUNT EM’S.

THURSDAY EVENING DEC. l6, 1897.
THE people of Boston once set an example,
	Which people of U[-]ah might follow, I think;
If the word and the coun[-]el of God are not ample,
	To teach them exactly the things they should
		drink.

If Boston went out with her sissors and axes,
	Rippe bags, split up boxes, and spilt all the
		tea;
And all that because of exorbitant taxes,
	A hint is there hidden, if Utah could see.

If the drinks of the Boston girl afterwards savored
	Of garden sage, catnip and rasberry leaves,
And yet with prosperity great she was favored,
	The Utah girl here a fine lesson receives.

Receives if she will—and I’d Iike her to take it—
	And take no more tea, as a pointer to wealth;
But remem[-]er God’s promise, (He never wil
	break it,)
Great trea[-]ures of wisdom, long life and good
	health. 
				L L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE sudden and almost tragic death of
the French author and critic Alphonse
Daudet, on Thursday, December 16, 1897,
while at dinner with his family in the
midst of domestic enjoyment must bring to
mind the saying “In the midst of life we
are in death.” Daudet is said to have
been the finest critic of the present day.
	THE burning of Dover castle on Decem-
ber 14, must be a great loss of many valu-
able works of art of historic value. It is
one of the most notable places in England,
containing such rare articles as cannot
again be replaced. As the fire was extin-
guished before night perhaps many of the
most valuable articles of other periods and
antique date may have been preserved.
	BY all means let the little people see the
windows with toys and such like curiosities
at Christmas time. There is no occasion
more inspiring to good deeds and tender
thoughts for the children than when pre-
parations are going forward towards this
world-wide festive as well as sacred cele-
bration. Let the children be happy on this
special day and prompt them to deeds of
love, charity and forgiveness. All that is
best in the child shows itself under such
cheerful conditions. It is hard work to be
ill-tempered at Christmas because the sur-
roundings are usually pleasant.
	THE life and labors of Sister Aurelia S.
Rogers is now in the hands of the publish-
ers and will be ready before very long.
Sister Rogers has been assisted in her work
by Sister L. L. Greene Richards who has
given the matter and its arrangement care-
ful oversight, and the book will be useful to
the children of Zion as well as interesting
to older readers. It will contain pictures of
Elder Orson Spencer, one of the ablest min-
isters of the Gospel in former days, and of
the author, Aurelia Spencer Rogers and
Ellen Curtis Spencer Clawson, her elder
sister.
	MRS. AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON has
written a poem entitled “The Exodus and
Jubilee,” which it is hoped will be printed
in some form perhaps in pamphlet style to
be circulated among the people. It is a
complete history in brief and in verse, of
the pilgrimage and labor of the Saints in
settling the desert places and establishing
a commonwealth. We shall be very glad
to see it in some suitable form such as the
merit of the work deserves. Mrs. Croche-
ron has written many poems, stories and
other articles, valuable contributions to our
home literature, but this work seems to us
(perhaps because of the subject) her very
best.
	THE death of Mrs. Nancy Alison Mc-
Kinley during the present month and so
near the holiday season December 12, will
have a depressing effect upon the residents
of the White House. From all one can
learn from newspaper reports the President
was fondly attached to his mother and had
ever been a dutiful and devoted son. The
floral offerings given prove she was beloved
by many, and the attention of the President
coming and going as he did, is proof of the
strength of his affection. Mrs. McKinley
had lived to a ripe old age and has gone to
her rest covered with honors. She was
born April 27, 1809, and died December 12,
1897, at Canton, Ohio. At her funera-

[Column 2]
many testimonials were given of the purity
and uprightness of her life and character.
	THE State Kindergarten association held
its annual meeting in the City and County
Building on Saturday, December 18, Mrs.
Augusta W. Grant in the chair. After the
transaction of routine business, officers for
the ensuing year were elected, which re-
sulted as follows: Prof W. T. Stewart,
president. Mrs. Annie Ballantyne of Og-
den, and Mrs. Annie Craig of Provo, vice-
presidents; Carrie S. Thomas, secretary;
Mary E. Larson, corresponding secretary;
Mrs. Emma J. McVicker, treasurer, and a
board of directors. Prof. Stewart took the
chair and spoke earnestly for the associa-
tion and urged all to work for its advance-
ment and the spread of this educational
dea which lay at the foundation of the best
education.
	SOME of the Christmas displays in the
shop windows are vety artistic this year,
and scarcity of money does not seem to pre-
vent shopping so far as one looking on can
observe, so that the little people will be well
supplied with all kinds of gifts and dainties
when Santa Claus arrives, and judging
from the weather he will come on runners
this year with bells and all the parapher-
nalia of winter costume. The Z. C. M. I
windows are as gay or gayer than ever be-
fore; ribbons and laces show well and
wherever there is color it gives tone to the
entire stock of articles. R. K. Thomas al-
ways makes everything count in arranging
his goods, and although it may be said
quality is everything, yet if the article is
ever so fine and it is not displayed to ad-
vantage, it may remain without a purchaser
while the more common articles are sold
off. Goods must be seen and books too as
well. People are often persuaded into buy-
ing by seeing books handsomely arranged
in windows or in view of the customer.
	THE illustrated lecture in the Assembly
Hall given by Dr. J. E. Talmage upon
Rome on the evening of December 3, was a
delightful pastime and an instructive enter-
tainment. To hear so much that is inter-
esting in one lecture is quite out of the or-
dinary, but Dr. Talmage has the happy
faculty of making every word count, and
one goes from the lecture hall of such a
speaker enriched in thought and ideas as
well as information. The views are very
fine and really fascinating, one may gaze
upon them and imagine being in the fa-
mous city itself. Dr. Talmage showed his
kindness of heart and his interest in child
life in generously giving this lecture free
for the benefit of the Kindergarten, and the
ladies who are working so industriously
and persistently to establish this system of
education in Utah feel very grateful to the
Doctor for the service rendered, both at
this time and heretofore in behalf of this
work. In doing this work for the public
those engaged therein are working for the
betterment of humanity.
	THE U. W. P. C. held its regular meet-
ing on the evening of Nov. 30, at the
residence of Mrs. Annie M. Bradley (editor
of the Review) by her invitation. The
parlors were prettily decorated for the oc-
casion Dr. Romania B. Pratt, the newly
elected president, presided, as the secretary
was not present Dr. Ellis R. Shipp was
chosen secretary pro tem. Original senti-
ments on Thanksgiving were given by the
members. Mrs. Martha B. Jennings,


president of the State Federation was pres-
ent and many other invited guests. Dr. Pratt
read her valuable address in a most pleas-
ing manner which we give in full in this
issue of the paper. Mrs. Marineau recited
beautifully a Thanksgiving poem. Mrs.
Edith Rossiter also gave a recitation, and
Mrs. E. B. Wells read a Thanksgiving story
—also to be found in these columns.
	After the program dainty refreshments
were served to all, including pumpkin pie
and most delicious coffee. General conver-
sation was indulged in and the evening
passed in a delightful social visit.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ADDRDSS.

[By the President of the U. W. P. C.,
Dr. Romania B. Pratt]
	I APPEAR before you tonight with a deep
sense of appreciation of the courtesy of the
club in electing me as president for the en-
suing year.
	In a strict sense the name of Press Club
in our case is a misnomer, as so few of us
are regular or special correspondents or
contributors to newspapers or periodicals,
and only three of our number are bona-fide
editors. But as I understand the object of
the Utah Woman’s Press Club, it is not
only to create a current into which may
flow the ripe thoughts of those well skilled
in journalism, but to encourage, to draw
out, to open up the vista of mind of the less
experienced of the spirits, who may sit
dreaming good thoughts but are not self-
confident enough to pen them for others to
peruse and perhaps to profit by.
	Our club was organized six years ago by
that staunch friend of women Mrs. E. B.
Wells, editor of the “Woman’s Exponent.”
She is ever seeking to arouse the best efforts
of heart and brain in all around her and
labors incessantly for the advancement of
women at home and abroad. She was
president during the first two years and
another year following Dr. Shipp’s two
terms of successful work. Mrs. Ruth M.
Fox has most satisfactorily and pleasantly
conducted the club through the past year.
	The short period of our club life has been
productive of much research into various
topics beside writing up the most interest-
ing epochs of the times.
	The members have written many original
stories, sketches and poems of high literary
merit. In our poets corner we have heard
sweet thoughts flowing in sweet rythmic
music from the pens of Mrs. E. B. Wells
in “Autumnal Musings,” Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze in “Faded Faces,” Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp in “The Woman Preacher,” Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder in “Queen Victoria,” Dr.
Orielle Curtis in “Friends of the Press
Club,” Mrs. Ruth M. Fox in “Utah,” Miss
Josephine Spencer in “In the Green Street.”
and Mrs. Genevieve Lucile Brown in “The
Ruling Passion.”
	In the dreamy realms of fiction have
appeared Mrs. Wells, Mrs. Greenhalgh, Miss
Ada Patterson and others.
	In the art world we have been highly in-
terested by Miss S L. Monroe with a his-
tory of ceramics accompanied by an exhibi-
tion of exquisite specimens of different
national productions, Socially we have
been most daintily entertained at the home
of Mrs. I. Cameron Brown, wife of our
Senator to Congress, at Mrs. Dickinson’s
valentine party, at Dr. Shipp’s, at Mrs.
Fox’s and at Mrs. Miller’s.

[Column 2]
	As a club we have had the pleasure of re-
ceiving the Countess Wachmeister, the
National Press Association, Miss Beecher
and others of note.
	Personal co-operation is the keynote of
success in club work, and in this particu-
lar I believe all the members can be justly
complimented for their prompt response to
program appointments.
	Occasionally to vary the routine club ex-
ercises we have had an evening in character
which aroused an interest and mirth and
taxed the memories of years of reading in
order to guess the authors.
	A most excellent rule in our club is the
rotation in office every one or two years. It
is the best means of infusing new life and
vigor into the work as well as lifting each
member into the realm of responsibility
and preventing the apathy which is too apt
to follow depending on leadership in others.
Few people are natural leaders, but many
are capable of improvement in presiding
with generous helpfulness from their asso-
ciates, and thus in time the mental status of
all the members is raised, increasing the dig-
nity and power of the club as a whole.
	The finances of a club form a pedestal
upon which rests its independence and self-
respect. Cash acts as oil to the wheels of
progress, and it is as important to the life of
the club that each member be prompt with
her dues, as to be active with her brain to
secure success in literary work.
	I was much impressed while reading
President Henrotin’s address to the General
Federation of Clubs with her recommenda-
tion to each club to hold a meeting to con-
sider the subject of international and nation-
al arbitration and industrial conciliation,
and the important part which women are
taking in educating, through peace socie-
ties, public opinion in favor of universal
disarmament. The futility of woman
grappling with such a stupendous project
at first thought seems simply absurd. But
has she not already taken by the horns
quite as prodigious a monster, the Liquor
King?
	A moments reflection upon the vast num-
ber of men composing the standing armies
of the different nations, maintained to steady
the toppling crowns on too often brainless
heads, and to aid in grasping territory and
holding power, makes the thought of dis-
armament seem wholly untenable.
	Such a suggestion, however, shows that
woman is growing in self-reliance and con-
fidence in herself, that she can accomplish
anything great or small, that she believes it
to be her duty to undertake. As a matter of
fact each man in those great hosts of arm-
es is some woman’s son, husband, father,
brother or sweetheart: So that the army of
women is as large as the army of men, and
if a solidarity of the hosts of women could
be marshalled into peace societies, public
opinion in favor of disarmament might fin-
ally be accomplished.
	As the president was advised, a meeting
could be given to the discussion of this sub-
ject and if it can be encompassed, as she
says “it will be the crown of glory of wo-
man’s work for humanity.” But as chari-
ty begins at home so should be the general
work of improvement.
	Some woman has said that “most people
do not know half the resources of their
own city and it is the golden opportunity of
the club to point them out.” In Salt Lake
City it looks as if the clubs will not only
have to point out the resources of the city,

[Column 3]
but to raise the cash by dint of industrious,
individual and collective work to establish
them. To begin with it will take the unit-
ed strength of the clubs to raise the means
whereby our public library may be sustain-
ed and very much enlarged, and also to in-
augurate traveling libraries for the benefit
of surrounding towns and villages.
	When we have accomplished these and
solved the servant girl question by opening
cooking schools to educate her and her
mistress too, and also learned to be skilled in
general household economies, then verily
the club women of Utah will be prepared to
become the vanguard in the grand army for
the world’s pacification and will be hailed
as angels with balm of Gilead in their
wings.


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	ON Thanksgiving a golden wedding
anniversary was celebrated at Nephi in
honor of the marriage of Charles Price and
Ella Johnson at Council Bluffs in the year
1847, the bridegroom then eighteen, the
bride scarcely fourteen years of age. They
have been blessed with a large family, fif-
teen in number, eleven of whom survive.
	The family prepared a sumptuous feast for
the occasion. Five sons with their wives
were present and five daughters with their
husbands, one daughter was absent on ac-
count of sickness. Thirty-five grandchil.
dren were present, two were absent, and
thirteen great grandchildren, besides many
guests who honored them with their
presence.
	The tables were set in an upper room
where over a hundred were seated to par-
take of a bounteous repast. I may here
state that the wedding cake was decorated
with gold pieces amounting to $40.00.
Afterwards came music, speeches and reci-
tations, concluding with a dance which
was greatly appreciated. It was pleasant
to see the fathers dance with their little
daughters. All were made happy enjoy-
ing perfect freedom which will be to them a
pleasant memory.
						M. A. HYDE. 
	Nephi, NOV. 27, 1897.


R. S. REPORTS.
 
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the thirty-ninth semi-annual
conference of the Bear Lake Stake held in
Paris 1st Ward meeting house, Friday Nov.
26, 1897, at 10 a. m., President Julia
Lindsay presiding. Singing “Come, come
ye Saints.” Prayer by President James C.
Hart. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Roll called, Stake officers present
six; officers of the various branches of the
Society ten.
 	President Lindsay thought the bad condi-
tion of the roads prevented many from at-
tending conference and said we should be
willing to make sacrifices to do our duty.
Those who do not put up with inconveni-
ences need not expect the reward that
awaits those who are willing to meet their
obligations. She was pleased to see some
of the brethren with us in conference.
	The verbal reports were as follows: Paris
1st Ward, Pres. Stucki; Paris 2nd Ward,
Pres. Ashley; Lanark, Pres. Parker;
Bloomington, Pres. Patterson; a written re-
port from St. Charles was read by Stake


[Column 1]
Counselor L. M. Hart; Laketown, Pres-
Hodges; Montpelier, Pres. Hoganson;
Ovid, Pres. Carlson.
	Stake Counselor Elizabeth Collings ex-
pressed her gratitude for the privilege of
being at conference and felt thankful for a
standing in the kingdom of God. She had
often wondered why one so weak as she
had been called to the position she had oc-
 cupied so long. Desired to do her duty, be
humble and submissive, emphasized the
necessity of doing the work for our dead.
	Stake Counselor L. M. Hart felt thank-
ful for the hope she had of an exaltation
in the kingdom of God. She had been in-
terested in listening to the reports and
hoped the presidents who were absent had a
reasonable excuse. Said if we would leave
some unnecessary work undone and devote
more time to the improvement of the mind
it would be to our advantage. We should
use every moment we could for the study
of the principles of the Gospel; she knew
that if she lived up to these principles she
could go before her Father in heaven and
ask for blessings, for her prayers had been
answered many times. We want our mem-
bers to be pure and holy, not only in deed
but in thought, for the spirit of God cannot
dwell in unholy tabernacles. Admonished
all to be alive to their duties today for life
is uncertain. Invoked the blessings of
heaven upon all.
	Singing “Come let us anew our journey
pursue.” Benediction by Elder Bagley.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Meeting called
 to order by President Lindsay. After the
usual opening exercises President Lindsay
expressed the pleasure she felt in seeing a
larger attendance this afternoon, had noticed
in listening to some of the reports that the
average attendance was not half. Would
be thankful if some plan could be suggested
that would create more interest among the
sisters with regard to attending their meet-
ings. The counsel at the conference in
Salt Lake City which she had recently at-
tended was that if we had grain in good
condition we should keep it, also that we
 establish some plan that those who need
help may have something to do in return
for that which they receive, we should see
that no one suffers. Asked the Lord to
bless us all.
	Sister Mary Bagley said she always felt
blest in attending these meetings. Bore
testimony that the Relief Society had been
a great blessing to her, it had helped her to
be a better wife and mother and teach her
children truths that she could not have
taught them if she had not been connected
with this noble organization. There are
trials that we are not able to surmount
without the assistance of our Heavenly
Father and the kind words of our brothers
 and sisters. Desired to do her duty through
all circumstances.
	Sister Amelia Hoge bore a faithful testi-
mony to the divinity of the work in which
we are engaged, felt her weakness when at-
 tempting to address the sisters but was de-
sirous of performing her duties to the best
of her ability.
	Sister N. E. Pugmire felt very pleased to
be at the conference. Exhorted mothers to
be very careful of the example they set be-
fore their children, they sometimes unknow-
ingly sow seeds of unbelief in the hearts of
their children. She felt blest in meeting
with the sisters of the Relief Society, and
said how much we should miss Sister Lind-
say and others who have labored among us

[Column 2]
so long if we were deprived of them, feared
we did not appreciate them as we should.
Spoke of the necessity of each one building
on her own foundation, we shall be re-
warded for that which we do ourselves and
not for that which our fathers and mothers
do. Let us open up our hearts and not be
afraid to offer kind and encouraging words
to one another.
	President William Budge said that in a
conference of this kind our minds were
drawn out towards God and His work, and
for a time we forget those things of less im-
portance. Said the sisters should economize
their time that they may attend their meet-
ings and thereby receive a blessing. Spoke
at some length upon influence and related
circumstances showing the necessity of pos-
sessing the right spirit, that our influence
may be felt for good.
	Minutes were read and approved. Sing-
ing “O say what is truth.” Benediction by
President William L. Rich.
				N. H. ALLRED, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	WE are called upon to record the death of our
beloved counselor, Sister Mary Dodds, who de-
parted this life Oct 27, 1897.
	Deceased was born in England in 1831, and
joined the Church in early days; emigrated to
Utah in 1859, coming with the last handcart m-
pany. She lived in Salt Lake City for a short
time, then moved to Goshen where she resided
up to the time of her demise. She leaves a hus-
band, four children and an adopt[-]d daughter to
mourn her loss, beside other relatives and friends.
   When our Relief Society was first organized
she was chosen as one of the teachers, and served
in that capacity until she was chosen second
counselor, which office she faithfully filled until
her death.
	She has been a great help to the presidents of
the Y. L. M. I. A., having the gift of speech she
was always able to give good and timely instruc-
tion and seemed to be inspired at all times, and
she was listened to with much attention by the
young ladies. Of late her health did not permit
her to attend the association.
	She was a very zealous worker in the Sunday
school for many years past and was loved by all
her pupils, for she had great ability in expound-
ing the scriptures, and made her class so inter-
esting that it was always full of attentive students.
She endeared herself also to the hearts of the
little ones in the Primary for her good advice,
kind expressions and prompt attendance.
	Soon after she joined the Church she enjoyed
the gift of prophecy, speaking in tongues and the
nterpretation thereof, and she was ever ready to
bear a strong and powerful testimony to the Gos-
pel of Christ, being gifted with speech it seemed
easy for her to unfold the things of God to her
hearers; she will therefore be greatly missed in
all our meetings.
	WHEREAS, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to take from our midst our beloved sister and co-
worker, we feel to bow in humble submission, for
we know our loss will be her gain. Therefore be
it,
	RESOLVED, That we offer our sympathy to the
bereaved family and ask God to comfort their
hearts that they may feel that she has gone from
their sight but for a moment, where she will min-
gle with those of her loved ones in her heavenly
home.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our records, one present[-]d to the
bereaved family and one sent to the “Woman's
Exponent” for publication.
	We will miss our much loved sister,
		There will be her vacant chair,
	May we live to meet in heaven,
		For our sister will be there.
				MARY JOHNSON, Pres.
				LUCY TAYLOR, Sec.


EARTH has nothing more tender than a
woman’s heart when it is the abode of
pity.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies Semi-monthly Meet-
ing held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall,
Nov. 27, 1897, Counselor E. J. Stevenson
presiding. Singing “As the dew of heaven
distilling.” Prayer by Julia C. Howe.
Singing “Behold the mountain of the
Lord.”
	Counselor Stevenson was disappointed in
not having President Horne with us this
afternoon. Said she had never enjoyed a
meeting more than the one two weeks ago-
Spoke of the past Thanksgiving, thought
with the Latter-day Saints that the day of
Thanksgiving was no different than any
other day, for with them it was continual
thanksgiving.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy made the an-
nouncement that President Horne was ill
and was not able to attend the meeting this
afternoon; also bore her testimony. The
minutes of the previous meeting were read
and accepted.
	Counselor Webb was pleased to be here
today, had made a great effort to come.
Spoke of being charitable and loving to
one another and said when she had her lit-
tle ones taken from her she felt it was al-
most more than she could bear, but now
she was glad for she knew they were safe
and that she had some shining stars there.
She felt thankful on Thanksgiving day,
but not more so than every day, to think
she was gathered here with the Saints.
	Sister Derrick related the time when she
first joined the Church and bore her testi-
mony; also referred to her Temple work
and how she felt she could do so much
good.
	Sister Brixen said when she looked
around and saw the peaceful look on the
faces of the sisters it was a testimony to
her that the Spirit of the Lord was here.
Spoke of the good the Relief Society work 
had done for her, it had helped to make
her a better woman.
	Singing “Should you feel inclined to cen-
sure.” Sister Rawlings made some re-
marks. Sister Jane Thomas bore her testi-
mony and said her desire was to be faithful
and do all the good she could.
	Sister Julia Samson made a few remarks
of thanksgiving and rejoicing. Spoke of
the gathering of the Jews, said it was over
fifty years since President Orson Hyde dedi-
cated that land. She knew that these were
all signs of the coming of the Savior.
	Sister Goss related an instance of helping
a poor person who belonged to the Church
and urged the sisters to help all the poor
they could.
	Sister Barton felt blessed in coming to
meeting, and felt there was much in our
Gospel to help us. Bore her testimony.
Singing “Now’s the day of Israel.”
	Dr. E. S. Barney testified to her enjoyment
of the singing, for this she could hear best.
She felt the Lord could be praised by sing-
ing as much as by speaking. Said her de-
sire had always been to educate and lift up
humanity, and spoke of her trials in cross-
ing the plains but felt to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in all things.
	Sister Augusta J. Crocheron testified that
God heard and answered prayers, and re-
lated an instance of how her prayer
had been answered.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said a remark had
been made that caused her many reflections
in regard to Temple work. Felt God’s love
and mercy reached out to every one. Said


we were all God’s children. Related an
instance of a friend of hers who died out of
the Church, but whose work in the Temple
had been done for her. Gave a notice of
the Stake conference of the Relief Society
two weeks from today. Asked the Lord to
bless all those who come to these meetings,
that they might have more of the Spirit to
take to their homes.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson made closing re-
marks and meeting adjourned subject to
the call of the president. Benediction by
Sister Lydia D. Alder.
			ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
WASHINGTON’S LAST WILL AND
TESTAMENT, JULY 9, 1799.

	“IT has always been a source of serious re-
gret with me to see the youth of these
United States sent to foreign countries for
the purpose of education, often before their
minds were formed, or they had imbibed
any adequate ideas of the happiness of their
own; contracting too frequently principles
unfriendly to republican government, and
to the true and genuine liberties of man-
kind; which thereafter are rarely overcome.
For these reasons it has been my ardent
wish to see a plan devised on a liberal scale,
which would have a tendency to spread
systematic ideas through all parts of this
rising empire, thereby to do away local at-
tachments and state prejudice, so far as the
nature of things would, or indeed ought to
admit from our national councils. Looking
anxiously forward to the accomplishment
of so desirable an object as this is (in my
estimation,) my mind has not been able to
contemplate any plan more likely to effect
the measure than the establishment of a
university in a central part of the United
States, to which the youth of fortune and
talents from all parts thereof might be sent
for the completion of their education in all
branches of polite literature; in arts and
sciences, in acquiring knowledge in the
principles of politics and good government,
and (as a matter of infinite importance, in
my judgment,) by associating with each
other, and forming friendships in juvenile
years, be enabled to free themselves in a
proper degree from those local prejudices
and habitual jealousies which have just
been mentioned, and which, when carried
to excess, are never failing sources of dis-
quietude to the public mind, and pregnant
of mischeivous consequences to this country;
under these impressions so fully dilated, 
 *	*	*	*
	“I give and bequeath in perpetuity the 50
shares (value $500 each) which I hold in
the Potomac company (under the aforesaid
acts of the legislature of Virginia) toward
the endowment of a university to be estab-
lished in the District of Columbia under
the auspices of the general government, if
that government should incline to extend a
a fostering hand toward it; and until such a
seminary is established and the funds aris-
ing on these shares shall be required for its
support, my further desire is that the profit
accuring therefrom shall, whenever divid-
ends are made, be laid out in purchasing
stock in the bank of Columbia, or some
other bank at the discretion of my execu-
tors, or by the treasurer of the United
States for the time being, under the direc-
tion of congress; and the dividends pro-
ceeding from the purchase of such stock is
to be invested in more stock, and so on un-

[Column 2]
til a sum adequate to the accomplishment
of this object is obtained.”
	This sum if invested as Washington
directed, would now amount to four and
one half million dollars. Hon. G. Browne
Goode, late director of the national museum
at the Smithsonian institution says:
	“The sum of $4,401,006 (amount of
Washington’s bequest with compound in-
terest to the present time), if appropriated
for this purpose by congress and placed in
the treasury of the United States, there to
remain paying interest of 6 per cent, would
yield over $264,000 each year, a sum that
would provide for many professorships,
lectureships and scholarships, and fellow-
ships, as well as for the current expenses of
several seminaries or colleges. Private
gifts would in time be added in large
amounts, and congress would, of course,
erect such buildings as from time to time
were found necessary.”


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. MARY LOWE DICKINSON sent in
her resignation as president of the Woman’s
National Council, at its recent meeting in
Nashville. It was necessitated by illness
and was accepted with regret. Mrs. May
Wright Sewall was elected to fill the
vacancy.
	THE immigration laws of this country
forbid the admittance of polygamists. Six
Mohammedan Syrians arrived at the port
of New York recently, and admitting under
cross examination that they believed a re-
ligion that countenances polygamy and that
they also believed in the custom, they were
held for further examination and possible
deportation to Turkey. The representa-
tives of the Sultan in this country intend to
make this a test case.—Ex.
	MISS ANTHONY in her address at the
New York State Woman Suffrage Conven-
tion last week, paid a high tribute to the
hospitality shown to the National Council
of Women at its recent meeting in Nash-
ville, Tenn. She said: “The National
Council is a federation made up of societies
of all kinds of women, orthodox and un-
orthodox, Jews and Unitarians. Next
year we shall have the Daughters of the
Confederacy. We were given a warm wel-
come. The people of Nashville flocked to
the Fair grounds, and cheered and seemed
to believe. As for the hospitality of that
midland and inland city of the South, all of
us agreed that we had never seen anything
like it.”


AMENDMENT. 

	To the Constitution of the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, proposed by Clara
Bewick Colby.
	Change Article III to read: The membership
of this Association shall be: I. All the mem-
bers of Auxiliary State Associations arcording to
the basis of representation as established in the
By-Laws. 2. All citizens of the United States
subscribing to this constitution, and paying not
less than one dollar annually into the treasury of
this Association, shall become members thereof,
and shall be entitled to attend all meetings, to
participate in the discussion that may arise, and
to receive reports and bther documents publishd
by it. 3. The payment of fifty dollars ($50) into
the tre sury shall constitute any citizen of the
United States a Life Member of the Association,
with all the priv[-]leges belonging to the regular
annual members.”


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-	
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[beside the logo]
The 
People’s 
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City		7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver						6:25 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City			3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver				0 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK,
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON, 
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
					Receivers.
		E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
		E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


<Complete>
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY. 1—15, 1898.		No. 15 & 16.


CONTENTS: 
	Polynesia—Emma Jenson. A Visit to Summit
Stake—Jennie. Daughters of Eve—W. D. Lawler.
U. W. P. C.—M. J. Lambert, Sec. Emma Brown
—Dacy Baker. Madame Mountford. A Wonder-
ful Manifestation—Mary H. Dalton. R. S. Re-
ports. In Memoriam. Utah Historical Society
	EDITORIAL:—The New Year 1898. A Beauti-
ful Marriage. Edit[-]rial Notes.
	POETRY:—Truths’ Warfare—Eleanor Wright.
A Twilight Reverie—Ethel B. Ferguson. Fret Not
Thyself—Lula.


TRUTHS’ WARFARE.

HOLD fast to truth: the world has need
	Of champions in the race,
Whose hearts are strong with faith and hope
	Then let us on apace.

Unfurl the standard to the breeze,
	And may its colors bright
Strike with alarm the approaching foe—
	And shed its beaming light

Across their path, arrresting them
	’Till they the motto see
That has been ours in sad defeat
	And oft in victory.

In golden letters it appears
	Emblazoned on the blue,
A symbol of its heavenly birth
	And of the sun’s bright hue.

The standard bears the stamp divine
	Of anchor, shield and dove;
The words placed under this device
	Are Hope, and Faith, and Love.

Sweet symbols of the better part
	To man’s unfolding given;
When error falls to rise no more
	They catch a glimpse of Heaven.

Press on ye champions, fail not those
	To advocate the cause 
Of freedom for humanity
	To purge the unjust laws.

Salvation is the watchword now
	To those whose souls are bound
By chains of error, [-]olding them
	Like loadstones to the ground.

With sword of spirit, shield of faith
	And God’s whole armor on;
Salvation’s helmet on the brow
	The field would soon be won.

So onward still with flag aloft;
	Fear not to meet the foe,
The victory shall be ours at last,
	And error fall with woe.
				ELEANOR WRIGHT.
Polomac Series.


MRS. ANNIE L. DIGGS has been appoint-
ed State librarian for Kansas. She will
have charge of the State law library, one
of the largest in the West, as well as the
general library.


[Column 1]
POLYNESIA.

BY EMMA JENSON.
	POLYNESIA, or the region of many is-
lands, is the name usually given, with more
or less limitation, to the numerous groups
of islands and some few single islands scat-
tered throughout the great Pacific occan
between the eastern shores of Asia and the
western shores of America. In its widest
significance the term Polynesia embraces,
besides the group of smaller islands in the
Pacific, the various islands large and small
of the Indian Archipelago in one direction
and Australia, Tasmania etc., in another
Including these and all adjacent islands the
whole region is sometimes called Oceania
and sometimes Australasia. But in more
modern times the term Polynesia is applied
only to those groups of islands lying east of
the 180 parallel of Longitude because the
inhabitants of all these groups seem to be-
long to the same branch of the human fami-
ly, being very much alike in color, character-
istics, manners, customs, language etc.
Ethnographically New Zealand should also
be classed with Polynesia. The principal
groups of Polynesia are, however, on the
Sandwich Islands, Tonga, or the Friendly
Islands, the Marquesas group and many
other scattered islands that are not grouped
together under any particular name.
	Most of these islands and especially the
largest are volcanic in their origin, and some
are coraline. The volcanic islands some of
which have peaks varying in height from
one to fourteen thousand feet are often dis-
tinguished as the high islands; they consist
of basalt and the igneous formation. The
islands of coralline formation are low and
generally small. They are destitute of any
considerable elevation. Though various in
form the high islands have many character-
istics in common. Many of them are sur-
rounded by a barrier reef ranging in dis-
tance from a few hundred yards to thirty
miles from the shore. Such reefs rise near
the surface of the water and their presence
is indicated by a ring of feathery foam
around the island. There is, however, al-
most uniformly some deep open passage by
which a ship may cross the reef and find a
sheltered harbor between the reef and the
island. The Tuamotu Islands which lie
adjacent to the Society Islands are also call-
ed the Low Archipelago, because they are
nearly all low atolls or lagoon islands.
	Atoll is a name given by the Ualdive
islanders to circular coral reefs rising above
the sea and enclosing a lagoon. These cir-
cular reefs are covered with a luxuriant
vegetation in some places, thus forming
small motus or islands some of which are
several miles long but seldom over a quarter
of a mile in width. The lagoon within
may be but a small pool, or a great basin of
placid sea thirty or forty miles in length or
breadth. Upon the inner circle of the reef
and around the margin of the lagoon is the
favorite home of the native, sheltered from
the storms of the great sea without, with
the great basin within engirdled with its
strong barriers fringed with cocoanut palms

[Column 2]
and appears the very symbol of fruitfulness
and repose.
	Various theories have been advanced in
regard to the formation of the coralline is-
lands. Coral is the work of the polyps of
which there are many different species,
each forming different varieties of coral.
The substance of coral is carbonate of lime.
It is not formed by any design of the little
creatures that build it, but is the stony
frames of these polyps that have their brief
life and die clinging where they were born,
and thus age after age by slow accretions
their dead frames build the submarine for-
ests that are rooted in unfathomed depths
and wear their coronal of verdure above the
flood. It has been proven by tests that the
coral reefs reach down into a deeper sea
than the plummet can sound.
	But the coral polyps, it is believed, cannot
live at a greater depth than one hundred
and twenty feet; hence the theory most
popular regarding coral islands is, that all
the ocean was once very shallow and that it
has slowly increased in depth, the earth
sinking down; meantime the polyps ever
building, keep their structures towering
still near the surface.
	Another theory is that these islands are
partly volcanic, partly coraline; that the
subterranean fires have lighted great
mountains near the surface of the deep, and
upon the summits of these coral polyps have
begun to build their strange and mighty
structures.
	The inhabitants of the Pacific Islands
are clearly of two distinct races; those of the
more easterly islands, or Polynesia, have
long, straight hair very glossy, and bright
copper skin, “like the American aborigi-
nes.” And on the islands which dot the
the sea from Fiji to the eastern part of Java
the natives are of quite a different type,
having large frames, black skin and crisp
hair, with more of the general characteristics
of the Negro. Again upon other islands are
found a population which is a mixture of
the two races referred to.” of the origin of
the two races nothing is know historically;
but among the many theories advanced the
one which traces the Polynesians or copper
colored back to America, and the darker
race to Asia and Africa is certainly the most
consistent and is gaining ground among a
certain school of ethnographical students.
The dialects of the copper colored race are
sufficiently alike to indicate a common ori-
gin. The darker race speak a totally differ-
ent language. The perfection to which the
languages of the Polynesians have been
brought is a marvel. Savage like as they
were and still are to a certain extent, their
dialects are remarkably rich, pleasing and
expressive, adjusted to express the nicest
distinctions in ideas. These dialects are
spoken according to the strictest rules and
the most perfect grammatical principles.
	In intellectual capacity the Polynesian is
in many respects the equal of the European.
In depth of thought and profundity of re-
search he is far inferior. But in wit, quick-
ness of perception, tenacity of memory, in-
genuity, thirst for knowledge when its val-
ue is perceived, eloquence etc., the Europ-


ean or American is hardly superior. They
have a very strong appreciation of the
humorous and are always ready for a laugh,
being in this respect totally unlike the
average Asiastic.
	That the islands of the great Pacific were
never connected with the continents seems
to be proven by the fact that very few
anmials are found upon them. There are
no large animals of any kind in Polynesia.
it is not known whether rats are indigenous
or were introduced by passing vessels.; they
are now almost incredibly numerous upon
some of these islands. In some quarters
the missionaries find it necessary to have
some one keep the rats off the table during
meals, just as we keep off the flies.
	Of food supplying plants the most im-
portant are the bread fruit tree, the cocoa-
nut palm, the banana, the taro and a
species of yam. Of the bread fruit there
are several kinds which ripen at different
seasons of the year, and so enable the
natives to subsist with very little labor.
The sugar cane is indigenous and is now
extensively cultivated on some of the larg-
er islands. Most tropical fruits are grown
on some of the islands. The banana is es-
pecially valued for the great amount of fruit
it produces. The ground which in the
course of a year would produce 33 pounds
of wheat or 100 pounds of potatoes, will
yield 4,000 pounds of bananas.
	Perhaps Samoa affords as good a sample
of the Polynesian race as any group of is-
lands in the Pacific, for the natives here
have been brought less in contact with the
civilized world than have the people on
many of the islands, consequently their
customs and habits as compared with
Europeans and Americans are quite inter-
esting and peculiar.
	The natives of Samoa are a fine race of
people physically and as fair-skinned as
the natives of Hawaii and Tonga. But
while the Tongans are compelled by law to
cover their bodies from shoulder to knee,
no such law exists in Samoa; hence the
natives on ordinary occasions confine their
clothing to their vale vale, or waist-cloth,
On Sundays, however, the men wear a
shirt and the women a sort of sash in ad-
dition to the vale vale.
(Continued)


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
A VISIT TO SUMMIT STAKE.

	MONDAY, September 20, by previous ar-
rangement with President Atwood while
attending the Relief Society conference of
the Summit Stake held at Peoa on the 7th
and 8th inst—we leave on the 7 o’clock
train for Ogden, take the Eastern for Echo
where we are met by President M. J. At-
wood and Counselor R. Pack of the Summit
Stake. Our reveries going up the lovely
valley of the Weber Water, as the native
would say, were of the most pleasant type.
We then proceed to Rock Springs, Wyom-
ing, where we arrive at 3:30 p. m. At the
depot we are cordially met by the president
of the Relief Society, the Bishop’s wife and
several others. Having been escorted to
the Bishop’s comfortable dwelling and
made to feel at home by his genial wife we
endeavor to rest ourselves. In the evening
quite a number gather there and we have
a sociable time.
	The next morning we visit the
sown and must admit our surprise at the
extent thereof and that so much thrift is
manifested on all sides. At 2 p. m. we

[Column 2]
hold a Relief Society meeting, and we must
here express our pleasure at the nice, little
meeting house that the Saints own in this
far off settlement and the good feeling
manifested among them when we take into
consideration that it is but a mining camp,
not gold mines, however, but that which
is more essential this kind of weather, coal
mines; and so few Saints compared to the
number of people. At 7 p. m. we hold
another meeting where the brethren as well
as the sisters meet together after their day’s
labor, and we have a most interesting time,
the brethren expressing themselves pleased
with the meeting and at the Saints having
come out in such goodly number.
	Wednesday 22, we take an affectionate
leave of the Saints and take the train for
Evanston where we are met by the Relief
Society president and others. We go to
the president’s home for dinner and then to
a meeting at 2 p. m.; and each time how
it makes our hearts swell with gratitude to
our Heavenly Father for His goodness to
His people, for here again is another cosy
meeting house and some good sisters. But
our experience has been in traveling among
the people that, go where you will among
the Latter-day Saints, there you will find
intelligence. We have a profitable meet-
ing, then go to Almy, the scene of that
direful devastation of some three years ago.
The saddest reflections pass through my
mind on arriving there and going through
the town. We are taken to Bishop Boun’s
home by his whole-souled wife. It is a
comfortable home situated on the side of a
hill overlooking the whole place and has
the loveliest garden, the soil having all been
carted up, placed on the rock and banked
up and the water to sprinkle with forced up
from the valley below. In that garden the
loveliest of flowers grow, also the finest
vegetables, the Bishop taking pains to ex-
plain to us the different varieties and also
presenting each of us with a bouquet which
we appreciated very much. Many times
while enjoying the fragrance of those lovely
plants in the Autumn evening we felt im-
pressed to say surely “Where there’s a will
there’s a way,’’ when one sees what can be
accomplished if people will only try. Thrift
is visible on every side in that household.
	Thursday 23, we call on several sisters in
the morning, then at 2 p. m. we hold meet-
ing again in a good meeting house. We
have an interesting time then call on some
more dear sisters, then go back to Evanston
where we are very kindly waited on for
supper at the home of the president’s
daughter after which we go with Sister
Dawson to her cosy home. We calmly set-
tled ourselves to rest thinking we were
through for that day, not so, however, for
about 8 o’clock there came about fifty of the
good Saints of Evanston to surprise us, and
it was a surprise indeed. Well we had a
most enjoyable time and we all parted feel-
ing to bless each other.
	Friday 24 we view the town and indeed
it is quite a town, then we take the train for
Echo where we hold a meeting at 2 p. m.
The Saints here are but few in number
and very much scattered but they are try-
ing to do all the good they can. They
have a good Bishop and a good Relief Soci-
ety president. After meeting we go to
Henneferville in a rain storm, where we
hold a meeting at 5:30 and have quite a
good turn out considering the weather;
they also have a good meeting house. After
meeting the Bishop of Echo and his good

[Column 3]
wife take us back to their comfortable home
two miles west of Echo.
	Saturday 25, they take us in due time to
Echo where President Cluff’s carriage
meets us to take us to Coalville. At noon
we meet with the old folks in that very
beautiful Stake house of which the Saints
of Summit Stake are so justly proud, and
the Relief Society having done so much to-
wards it; the grounds are also very nice.
Well it was old folk’s day in very deed, a
happier looking gathering could scarcely be
found. President Cluff and his genial wife
with all her aids were on the qui vive to
see what could be done to make each one
happy and comfortable. The dinner tables
looked elegant. After the program was
over the exercises closed about 5 o’clock,
we spent a pleasant evening visiting with
friends. 
	Sunday 26, we leave Coalville about noon
Sisters Cluff and Eldredge and two good
brothers accompanying us. We go ten
miles to Upton, seven miles of continuous
dug ways. We then again marvel at the
perseverance of the people, but as usual
when you get to the valley it is quite a
nice, little place. We have a very profit-
able meeting at 2 o’clock, have a goodly
number present. After meeting on our
way back we visit Bishop Clark’s Fun Hall,
the most unique place of the kind we ever
remember seeing, he having employed an
artist to paint the walls in oil on which
every conceivable design is displayed, from
the native and his wickeup to the lovely
castle; from the minutest of everything to
the greatest. It really is amazing to see
such workmanship so far up in the moun-
tains, seemingly away from everything.
The people up there seem comfortable
and when we realize while traveling among
the community how few, comparatively
speaking, owned a home previous to the
Gospel reaching them, and how the Lord
has blessed this people it makes us feel to
praise His holy name. We arrive at Coal-
ville about dark, having enjoyed our trip
very much, the mountain scenery was very
fine. We are again entertained at
President Cluff’s hospitable home and also
at Brother Eldredge’s.
	Monday 27, we visit the sick and afflicted.
We call on one poor sister who has been
afflicted with rheumatism for two years,
we pray with them then comfort and bless
them and ask the Lord to bless them. We
also visit one young sister who is very sick;
how they do appreciate our call! Would
that more made it a point to call on the sick
and comfort and bless the afflicted, for then
is the time they need consolation and in
blessing we are blest. We then repair to
a Relief Society meeting in the Stake house
at 10 o’clock, after which we comfort anoth-
er afflicted one. In the afternoon we go to
Hoytsville to a meeting at 5 o’clock and
have a very good meeting. We return to
Coalville and by invitation attend the
Y. L. M. I. A., which we enjoy very much
as it is very interestingly conducted.
	Tuesday 28, we take leave of dear friends
which is always affecting, Sisters Atwood
and Pack having proven themselves very
genial companions. There were several
other settlements we were to visit but the
season being so far advanced and conference
so near it was deemed wisdom to postpone
it until a future time. We leave Coalville
at 8:20, reach Ogden at 4;30 and arrive home
at 8 p. m. all well.
						JENNIE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TWILIGHT REVERIE.

I’M sitting in the twilight, the sweetest hour of all
The hour when day is dying, and dusk begins to
	fall.
I gaze in thoughtful silence, on the burning em-
	bers bright,
While the shadows slowly lengthen, in the tender
	fading light.
In the glowing coals of fire fantastic figures meet
	my gaze,
And in fancy pass before me, the scenes of other
	days, 
Fair forms and faces far away, are pictured in
	the fire;
And in the hrooding calm I hear, sweet tones of
	harp and lyre,
Before me comes my mother’s face the same
	sweet, tender smile,
That cheered my drooping spirits, when we part-
	ed for awhile.
My little sister laughs again at me in childish glee,
My brothers, friends and schoolmates all, once 
	more return to me.
The little, humble cottage where I lived when
	but a boy,
All trouble was a dream to me, life’s gold held no
	alloy.
The old house is deserted now, its inmates all
	have fled.
Some are in the churchyard, sleeping, numbered
	with the dead,
Some have gone to foreign lands, ’mid strangers
	they are cast,
I often wonder if they think of happy days long
	past.
When we built our castles in the air, of futures
	fair and bright,
But time brought changes, and the castles all
	vanished from our sight
The fire is dying, day has fled strange shapes no
	more I see,
The past within my memory locked, holds all its
	charms for me.
The future dim, uncertain, calls silently from
	afar,
With faith and love for a motto, and hope for a
	guiding star.
				ETHEL B. FERGUSON.


[Column 1]
DAUGHTERS OF EVE.
	IN the oldest of all histories—the Bible—
woman stands out prominently in the pro-
cession of characters, and Sarah, Ruth,
Esther, Delilah and the Marys’ are the in-
carnations of all the varied passions that
move the world. The women of the
present time are only as yet making their
history. The mother of Washington and
the heroines of Lexington will be better re-
membered in the centuries to come than
they are now. It was a woman that put
heart into the weary soldiers with the
grandest war song ever written. It was a
woman’s taste in bunting that gave us the
glorious stars and stripes, and it was for
women, mothers, wives, sisters and sweet-
hearts that those same soldiers sang, and
singing died. I believe that intelligence
and a sense of freedom and equality with
men does not unfit a woman for the cares of
home and children; rather that contact with
the world of thought and action widens her
sympathies and strengthens her judgment.
And her influence with her sons and daugh-
ters as they grow up is ten fold greater than
that of the old-fashioned mother. She may
be less confiding, less clinging, but more
knowing. Let us educate our daughters
not only to love, honor and cherish their
husbands but to have other aims in life

[Column 2]
than the timid, yielding, old-fashioned
mother to whom a frown was as a blow,
and a cross word saddened her for a week.
Marriage need not necessarily be a failure.
Like every high condition it is difficult of
attainment; but it is so fine in its perfection
that one success compensates for many non-
successes. A woman’s soul and mind must
reach out and be an inspiration to her hus-
band. Learn something of his affairs, in-
terest yourself in his work. What you
don’t possess cultivate. A husband soon
ceases to care very much about a wife who
is mentally his inferior. Thackeray says,
“Love is immeasurably above all ambition
—more precious than wealth, more noble
than name. He knows not life who knows
not that; he hath not felt the slightest
faculty of the soul who hath not enjoyed
it.” while the new woman asks, “Is love
alone worth living for—worth dying for?”
It is the only satisfying good we can grasp
among the shifting shadows of our brief
existence. In its various phases and dffer-
ent workings is it after all the brightest
radiance known in the struggling darkness
of our lives? And does love always satis-
fy? Men find their pay for living in vari-
ous ways. Hope may lie to them, but
they always believe her, nevertheless. The
better things to come of which she tells all
men become indeed the substance of the
thing desired; that is expectation is a con-
stant joy and inspiration. The pay for
this day’s toil is the reward which is ex-
pected tomorrow. That reward may never
come but the hope remains, and so long as
that remains, and so long as that lives it
pays them to live that they may make
money and command the power that money
brings.
	If a truth it is that “man’s love is of his
life a thing apart,” why should it be “wo-
man’s whole existence?” To what an
enormous toil and sacrifice the love and pur-
suit of money urge a great multitude of
men until they become so absorbed in the
exciting struggle as to almost forget the
things that were once so dear to them; or at
least forget to give expression to words or
acts that mean so much to our own, given
us to be good to. Oftentimes they love
dearly, yet live a stingy, miserly life in re-
gard to their richest inward treasures, when
a few words or deeds expressive of this
love would make them both so much hap-
pier. And some women are so weak, so
helpless, so self-sacrificing, requiring a
strong and steady arm to lean upon. It is
very difficult for either man or woman to go
on believing in a love that never takes heed
for the object loved. The greatest heroism
I have ever found in human nature has
been in the lives of women. The man who
risks his life to rescue some drowning creat-
ure is not so brave as many a wife who en-
dures neglect, indifference and even disloy-
alty from one who has sworn to be her pro-
tector; and sits through long, lonely eve-
nings at home, looks alluring temptation in
the eyes and turns away, carrying a smil-
ing face to the world. The physical pain,
the heart-hunger, the lonely hours that
make half the life of the average woman
would drive the average man to the insane
asylum before he reached middle age. How
much we might make of our family life if
we only would, of our social intercourse, of
our friendships. How many kind words
we could speak, how many hearts make
glad.
				W. D. LAWLER.


U. W. P. C.

	THE ladies of the U. W. P. C. met at
Dr. R. B. Pratt’s parlors Dec. 30, 1897, the
president Dr. R. B. Pratt presiding. Mrs
Mary A. Freeze opened the evening’s pro-
gram with prayer. Roll call was responded
to with maxims of Confucius. Minutes of
the Thanksgiving meeting were read and
approved. Mrs E. B. Wells moved that
each member furnish a plate, cup and
saucer and spoon for club use; carried.
	Mrs. Ella Hyde gave a very creditable
paper on the subject of Confucius, followed
by remarks by the members thereupon.
	A paper by Mrs. M. A. Freeze on
Martin Luther met with high appreciation.
	An historic paper on Polynesia by Mrs.
Emma Jenson was replete with interest
and valuable instruction. It was supple-
mented with questions and remarks by the
members and followed by “Hawaii” by
Mrs- Mary J. Lambert.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt gave a very complete
paper on Mongolians, teeming with interest
and information. Mrs. Emma Jenson was
admitted as a member. Adjourned for one
month. Benediction by Mrs. Maria Francis.
	Exotic plants and oriental lights added
attraction to the evening. A dainty lunch
was served in harmony with the entertain-
ment while quaint and precious ornaments,
valuable table ware, mother of pearl, shells
and other articles representative of
Oriental customs were exhibited, giving in
all a most delightful evening.
			M. J. LAMBERT, Sec.
PROGRAM FOR JAN. 31, 1898.
	Sentiments from Goethe. Music by Prof.
McClellan. A brief sketch of Ger-
many by Ruth M. Fox. Ger-
man song by Camilla C. Cobb. Notable
men of Germany by Rebecca H. Doolan.
Recitation in German Mrs. Belle W. Bun-
nell. Notable women of Germany by Hat-
tie Harker. Music mandolin and guitar,
Mrs. Bunnell and Master Mark Bunnell.
The club will meet by invitation at Mrs.
Bunnell’s, 126 1st Street.


MISS SUSAN DE FOREST DAY has applied
for a sailing master’s license and will prob-
ably receive it. She owns the steam yacht
Scythian, on which she lives most of the
time, and she is said to be well up in tech-
nical acquirements, to say nothing of her
undoubted practical experience. A license
was refused the other day to Lady Bruden-
el Bruce in England, on the ground that a
woman could not legally be a “master,”
even of a yacht belonging to herself. The
difference of opinion in America is well
shown in the words of the late Secretary
Folger. The New York Tribune says:
“Secretary Folger’s directions to the local
inspectors on this point stand out in pleas-
ing contrast to the obstinate conservatism
which has just been exhibited in England.
His orders were, ‘Let the local inspectors,
putting behind them all thought of her sex,
without antagonism and without partiality
make diligent inquiry as to her character, 
carefully examine her and the proofs she
offers, and if they are satisfied that her
capacity, her experience, her habits of life
and character warrant a belief that she can
be safely entrusted with the duties and re-
sponsibilities of a master of a steam vessel,
let them grant her a license according to
Section 4,439.’ ”			Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 1, & 15 1898.


[Column 1]
THE NEW YEAR 1898.

	WE hope and trust it is not too late for
the “Exponent” to send a New Year’s
Greeting to all its patrons and readers, and
to wish a prosperous as well as a happy
new year to all who may chance to see or
become interested in its welfare and well-
being. And most truly do we wish that
this year now fairly begun may be full of
joy and promise of good to Utah and to the
country of which Utah is a part.
	That prosperity may increase and health
and happiness abound and everything that
will tend to the best interests of the people
in these mountain vales, is most sincerely
to be hoped for. Surely the hand of the
Lord has been wisely manifest in the past
and the blessings that tend to build up a
great commonwealth have been vouchsafed
in rich abundance, the industry and dili-
gence of the laborer has been well rewarded
and there is no reason for any to complain,
comparatively speaking.
	This people did not come into these val-
leys with the expectation of great wealth,
on the contrary they came from religious
motives, and that they might have a safe
abiding place for themselves and those who
desired to gather with them to build up
Zion, and endeavor to keep the command-
ments of God. And year after year their
numbers and possessions have increased;
they have extended their borders and built
up towns and cities, temples and institu-
tions of learning, and made the waste
places beautiful, and the land a delight to
all, and the Lord has been their shield and
guide and protector, and in worshiping
Him has been their safety.
	Men and women alike are free and equal
under the laws of the new state, and for
this blessing we should thank our Father
in heaven, that there is no oppression, and
that we enjoy privileges for which others
have been striving in older states for half a
century in vain.
	Throughout Utah at the present time
there is no real poverty, the cry of the
poor is not heard, wherever there are any
who are needy from any cause whatever,
there is also plenty of food and raiment if
their wants are made known. The system
of looking after the poor established by the
leaders of this people according to the order
of the Church is such as recommends itself
to all who have examined into its practical
methods and application, for it reaches all
cases.
	We have great reason to rejoice that we
have not suffered from famine or pestilence

[Column 2]
or scourges of various kinds as many states
have and for these and many other things
we should be exceedingly grateful. But in
many things as a people there is great room
for improvement nevertheless, and for this
we should strive that we may grow better
as well as wiser, for while knowledge of
various kinds is on the increase let us not
forget the wise old saying “Knowledge
puffeth up but wisdom edifieth.” There
may be great danger unless special care is
taken that the learning of the world with-
out humility and faith in God will lead
astray, and men will trust to science and to
the skill and ingenuity of their fellow-men
instead of acknowledging God who is the
great Author of all and by whose power
and divine inspiration all things are revealed
whether they be new or old. He alone
holds the keys of life and death and the
Scriptures say He is angry with none save
those who will not acknowledge Him in all
things.
	Therefore it behooves us all to serve Him
and keep His laws and commandments, that
we may be partakers of the promises He has
given to the faithful; and with all diligence
labor to establish righteousness and peace,
and the salvation of the living and of the
dead. The millenium cannot come until
there is a people ready for it, and that we
may be instrumental in bringing about the
time when peace shall reign instead of war
and wickedness and bloodshed, all who love
purity and holiness should not only pray
but work most earnestly.


A BEAUTIFUL MARRIAGE.

	MR. HENRY F. FERNSTROM and Miss
Pearl Russell were married on Thursday,
Jan. 4, 1898 at one p. m. in the Salt Lake
Temple by Bishop John R. Winder. Both
bride and bridegroom are quite young and a
very handsome couple. The young man is
the son of the City Councilman, F. S. Fern-
strom, and the girl is the daughter of the
late Robert Russell and his wife, Myra
Young Russell. Miss Pearl Russell is the
granddaughter of the late Joseph Young,
President of the Seventies.
	A few relatives and friends assembled at
the residence of the bride’s mother where a
fine and delicious dinner was served and
congratulations were tendered the happy
young people. The bridegroom expects to
leave on a mission to Scandinavia on the
22nd inst. The “Exponent” tenders
hearty and sincere congratulations and every
good wish for future happiness.

‘There’s a bli s beyond all that the minstrel has
		told,
	When two that are linked in one heavenly tie,
With heart never changing and brow never cold,
	Love on thro’ all ills and love on till they die.
One hour of a passion so sacred is worth
	Whole ages of heartless and wandering bliss;
And oh! if there be an Elysium on earth,
	It is this—it is this.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE had the pleasure of attending the
Relief Society conference of Utah Stake
held at Provo on Friday Jan. 13, 1898,
Mrs. Mary John presiding. Although the
weather was severe there was a good at-
tendance some of the sisters having come
from a distance; the reports were very good.
Presidents Edward Partridge and David John

[Column 2]
addressed the conference in the afternoon.
The silk industry was one of the principal
subjects dwelt upon by several of the speak-
ers. Sister B. J. Simons gave some inter-
esting reminiscences of the days of Kirt-
land and the Prophet Joseph, with whom
she had been personally acquainted.
	MADAME LYDIA MAMREOFF VON FIN-
KLESTIEN MOUNTFORD visited Salt Lake
City for a few days during the present
month and while here called on some of the
friends with whom she had become ac-
quainted during her sojourn here before
going to California. The Madame is favor-
ably impressed with Utah and its people,
especially those who came here from re-
ligious motives; she had frequent opportuni-
ties of defending our people while in Cali-
fornia and did not hesitate to tell the truth.
Madame Mountford is a most remarkable
woman; her wonderful personality is par-
ticularly striking; in conversation she is
brilliant, versatile and scholarly. She
makes friends immediately with those to
whom she is attracted. Madame Mountford
addressed the large congregation in the
Tabernacle on Sunday afternoon January
8, the substance of her remarks are given
in another part of this paper. She is fami-
liar with the Scriptures as also with the
land of Palestine and the regions round
about where the Savior and His Apostles
traveled and preached the truths of the Gos-
pel. Madame Mountford bade good bye to
Salt Lake City and her friends here on
Tuesday evening and left for Toronto
where she will remain a short time, then
go on to New York and will probably sail
for Europe in April, from whence she will
return to her home in Jerusalem. She
does not expect to visit America again in
this century.
	THE new Club House of the Ladies
Literary, was formally opened to its mem-
bers and invited guests on Friday, January
7, 1898—twenty-one years from its organ-
ization. It was a glad day for the Club,
and indeed all club women should rejoice
when such material progress is made, for
these things all help and give a permanent
significance to woman’s advancement.
There is ever an inspiration in the home
and there will doubtless be in the home of
the club; much can be done in various
ways that it was exceedingly difficult to do
when the club was not so well located. Mrs.
W. A. Nelden presided in a very dignified
manner, Mrs. Arthur Brown gave the re-
port of the building committee, after which
she presented the House and grounds to
the club in a very graceful speech. Mrs.
Nelden thanked the committee in behalf of
the club in an appropriate way. Mrs. Gil-
christ read a paper on the history of the
club in the past. Mrs. Vollmer sang two
German ballads, and Mrs Royle, who is
styled the “Mother of the Club,” read a
paper entitled “The Life of the Club.”
Georgia Snow Carlton who opened her
home for the first meeting of the club made
a few impromptu remarks and Mrs. Plum-
mer sang “Winken, Blinken and Nod,”
Mrs. Inglehart read some poems of Paul
Lawrence Dunbar (negro dialect) in the
dialect, which every one enjoyed. Several
gifts of value were received, a collection of
valuable books from Mrs. Hamilton, a
piano from Mrs. Bamberger, dancing floor
finish from Mr. Nelden, beautiful vase and
carnations from Bishop Elias Morris, and
other things of value. The hall was beauti-


fully decorated as also the tea-room down
stairs. The guests and members were
served with Russian tea and dainty wafers,
beautiful girls flitted here and there among
the flowers and plants handling the delicate
china.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL
REPORTS.

	THE Secretary of each Stake organizations
of the Relief Society will please send statis-
tical and financial report of her respective
Stake for the year 1897 as soon as possible
the General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton, Salt Lake City. Branches of
the Relief Society not included in any of
the Stakes of Zion will also send annual
reports so that the secretary may be able to
prepare a complete and correct report of the
Society in good time for the April con-
ference.
			E. B. Wells, Secretary.


EMMA BROWN.

To The Woman's Exponent:
	As one of our most esteemed and beloved
sisters, Emma Brown, passed to the great
beyond on the 8th of last month, Dec. 1897,
it was thought a few lines concerning her
life would be acceptable to you, and trust
you will allow this space in your valuable
little paper so her many friends may read it.
She has taken your paper for many years
and has always been one of its best friends.
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.
	Emma Brown, daughter of Lorena and
Ethan Barrows was born in Nauvoo, Ill.,
Oct. 1, 1843. She lived in that state until
1850 when she emigrated to Utah with the
Evans company, locating in Salt Lake City.
Here eight years later she was married to 
Pioneer George W. Brown, President Young
performing the ceremony. After living in
various places they at last settled in
Charleston in 1866, where she lived at the
time of her death.
	On Feb. 28, 1874, Sister Brown was ap-
pointed president of the Charleston ward
Relief Society which position she was very
competent to fill. After attending to her
duties for over five years, Sep. 3, 1879, she
was chosen and set apart to be president of
the Relief Society of Wasatch Stake. She
filled this position up to the time of her
death. In this capacity she has visited
every settlement in this Stake of Zion,
always being welcomed with joy. Her in-
fluence for good was penetrating and last-
ing. She has filled her earthly mission,
and we feel that our loss is heaven’s gain.
No one has yet been appointed to fill her
place. She has fought the good fight and
remained faithful to the end.
	For some years Sister Brown has been
troubled with heart failure, and later with
an internal cancer. These complaints were
the cause of her death. She suffered great-
ly and passed away pleading to die in peace.
No blot or stain could be found on her
character, and her body will rest in peace
until called forth on the morning of the
first resurrection. She leaves many rela-
tives and a host of friends to mourn her
loss. 
	Your sister in the Gospel,
				DACY BAKER.
Charleston, Jan. 4, 1898.


[Column 1]
MADAME VON FINKELSTEIN
MOUNTFORD.

ADDRESS ON THE HOLY LAND
(In the Tabernacle.)

	Elder Charles W. Penrose introduced
Madame Mountford as the speaker of the
afternoon. The lady in beginning, ex-
pressed her gratitude at being privileged to
address her brethren and sisters in Jesus
Christ, in this Zion of the Western Hemis-
phere. She said she would speak upon the
land of her nativity—Jerusalem—the Holy
Land, the land in which the ancient Phar-
isees traveled, promulgating the words of
the Father, as a preparatory work to the
building up of the kingdom of God.
	As a text Madame Mountford recited the
19th chapter of Luke beginning at the 11th
verse. The Bible, said the speaker, did
not speak in detail; it gave here a link and
there a link, and these links had to be
bound together in wisdom, in order that the
proper interpretation might be put upon
that which was therein written.
	After citing the passages referred to,
Madame Mountford reverted to the 23 chap-
ter of Luke beginning at the 22nd verse and
dwelt briefly on the passages there occur-
ing.
	Taking up a study of the land of Pales-
tine, the speaker paid a tribute to the Turk-
ish empire and the Mohammedans, who,
she said, had kept in tact the political con-
ditions of that land as they were in the
days of the Savior. Had the European
powers gained control of that section of
country it would have been a land of mills
and factories, rather than a quiet peaceful
valley such as it now was. God the Father,
said the speaker, had so preserved the Holy
Land, in order that His Zion might be
built, that the land of the ancient Apostles
might retain its purity and holiness as in
days of old.
	Madame Mountford referred to the condi-
tions existing in the Holy Land and com-
pared them with conditions in America.
The same crude means of transportation in
vogue in Palestine anciently were in evi-
dence when the speaker was a child, but
since then a change had taken place and
facilities in every direction had become
more modernized. The parable of the
talents was likened by the speaker unto the
trust and confidence reposed in servants by
the people of the Holy Land. To each man
or woman according to their respective abil
ities, there was meted out a certain trust,
and that was his portion to look after and
care for in his master’s household. So it
was with the Father, said the speaker. He
gave unto one a certain talent and unto an-
other a different one, and from each ex-
pected a true stewardship of the trusts re-
posed in them.
	Referring to the crucifixon of Christ be-
tween two thieves and the remark of one,
“Lord remember me when Thou comest
into Thy kingdom,” coupled with the an-
swer of Jesus thereto, the speaker cited the
confidence which the thief had in the Savior.
No wonder, said she, that the Savior an-
swered, “This day shalt thou be with me
in Paradise.” The condemned man had
faith in the mission of Jesus. He knew
whom He was, and therefore showed al-
legiance unto Him, in the remark which he
made and to which he received such a satis-
factory answer.

[Column 2]
	The methods of the Arabs in preserving
their talents was referred to, and the con-
gregation was urged to take advantage of
the talents given unto them, that the ex-
action which the Father would make of
them would be fully in evidence in return
for the mercies bestowed.
	Madame Mountford regretted the tenden-
cy of humankind to forget the parables of
the Savior; to lay them aside and apply no
special significance to them. She spoke of
the great evil attending the seeking after
worldly wealth, and paid a tribute to the
Mormon people in founding a common-
wealth, such as they had built up in the
fear and admonition of the Lord. Such a
feature was laudable, and the building of
houses of worship and beautiful temples
showed that the people were earnest in the
allegiance to their God.
	Concluding, the speaker bade the people
of Utah and Salt Lake City a fond farewell.
She was enroute to her far eastern home in
Jerusalem and in her departure from this
section, she felt to thank the Latter-day
Saints for their many kindnesses and as-
sured them that they would never be for-
gotten. She said she knew President
Woodruff to be a man of God, full of humili-
ty and meekness, and felt that the people
could do no better than revere and honor
him.
	The choir sang the anthem “Hallelujah.”
Benediction was pronounced by Elder C
W. Penrose.


A WONDERFUL MANIFESTATIOM.

To Our Beloved Exponent:
	DEAR SISTERS:—Thinking perhaps a
few lines from a mother in Israel can find
space in your valuable paper, I write you
concerning the sickness of Sister Mary
Holmes Dalton which she was called
to pass through, wherein she came near the
portals of death, and only through the
blessing of God was her life spared.
	She was taken sick on Friday Oct. 1,
1897, and on Sunday morning the 3rd their
baby boy came to their home. The moth-
er’s dangerous condition and the very deli-
cate and tiny figure looking so frail, brought
sadness and the greatest anxiety to the
hearts of those who were laboring to bring
comfort and relief to the suffering.
	On Monday night she saw many strange
scenes and talked a great deal of a brother
who was, and is now, laboring in Mississip-
pi as a missionary, preaching the Gospel of
our Savior to a benighted world.
	She says: “I was very happy, more hap-
py than words can express, and it seemed
that I was enrapted in something very
heavenly and that my brother William was
with me and that we were rejoicing because
we had brought happiness to a great many
people, but in what way was not shown to
me. 
	“This strange, happy feeling continued
with me, though at the same time I was
suffering severe pain. On Tuesday the 4th
the Elders and all present were united in 
prayer. About 1 o’clock p. m. I desired
to be alone, thinking perhaps I would be
able to sleep as I had become more free
from pain, and had not slept any since tak-
ing sick. I was immediately left alone ex-
cepting my husband who laid down on the
bed beside me. He had laid there but a
few minutes when I realized that I was dy-
ing. I lay several minutes thinking of my


[Column 1]
family and of leaving my three little boys,
and many scenes passed through my mind.
	“I spoke to my husband and told him I
desired to be prayed for as I was dying and
wished to be given up into the hands of my
Heavenly Father that He might do with
me as He would. The Elders, my hus-
band and my sister, Mrs. Robison, came in
and each one prayed in turn, dedicating me
to the Heavenly Father and asking His will
to be done not ours.
	“After this I seemed to have no desire to
live. I told my husband many things un-
til it seemed I could talk no longer, my
breath being so short and my strength gone.
I felt that I would very soon clasp hands
with my dear mother and sister who had
a number of years before left us, to join 
many other loved ones in the spirit world.
Though I did not see them I felt that they
were with me.
	“I here remembered a saying that I once
heard in a sermon delivered by President
Joseph F. Smith in the Logan Temple on
fast day. I will relate it here before going
farther. He was preaching to the young,
those who had come for the purpose of get-
ting married. He told them if they could
come to the Temple prepared to labor there
one week at least so that they would be
able to remember those things which were
so necessary for them to remember, as go-
ing through one day they would be apt to
forget many things, and he showed them
how terrible they would feel if they should
die and come to the veil and their loved
ones would be there to take them through
and they had forgotten everything that had
been taught them in the holy Temple, and
would not be able to go farther on account
of their forgetfulness or unworthiness.
	These sayings came to me and I wonder-
ed if I would be in this condition, when I
began to pray my Heavenly Father to help
me to remember all that had been taught.
While thus praying it was made known to
me that if I desired I could return, or I
could go on just as I wished. I could see
at once that by returning, if I remained
faithful, I would have greater blessings
than if I departed this life. I also per-
ceived that there would be suffering and
great trials to be borne. 
	When I looked back and thought of re-
turning it seemed that I could not endure
the thought, it looked so dark and gloomy
and I felt a desire to go on. It was then
shown to me the great amount of work to
be done and the few laborers there were to
do this work.
	It was a wonderful scene; I decided at
once to return. I had no sooner made up
my mind to return than it seemed that I
was caught up, as it were, and oh! such a
glorious, heavenly feeling as came over me
it is impossible to describe. I knew I had
done right by returning, yet I also felt that
those loved ones on the other side would
have been glad to have welcomed me home
to them.
	“I turned at that moment and told those
present that I should live. I began to im-
prove from that very moment and today,
December 10, I am doing a great
deal of my work; though I am not well I
feel that I will soon be back to my natural
strength again, for which I am very thank-
ful.
	“I know and feel to bear my testimony to
you that it was only through the blessings
of my Heavenly Father that my life was
spared and that I am now living. I also

[Column 2]
bear my testimony to the truth of what I
have written, and I pray that it may be of
benefit to all those who read it as this is the
object for which it is written.
	“I know that what I witnessed and all
that passed before my view was from God,
and I feel very desirous to spend all my
time and all that the Lord has given me to
help accomplish this work that I saw, and I
know that it was the work of God and that
it must be accomplished though the labor-
ers are few.
	“Our darling baby was called home on
the 10th inst., the Heavenly Father gave
him to us, he came, took a body and re-
turned.
	“I pray that we may all stand firm to the
truth and help to roll on this mighty work,
which is ever the prayer of
		“Your sister in the Gospel,
				“MARY H. DALTON.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS

 BOX ELDER STAKE.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle in Brigham City on Dec. 14,
1897, President Olivia Widerborg presid-
ing. Opened by singing “Now let us re-
joice in the day of salvation.” Prayer by
Counselor Zella Reese. Singing “Glorious
things are sung of Zion.” Roll called,
minutes read and accepted.
	President Olivia Widerborg made opening
remarks. She said: “We are but a few
present but I pray our Father to bless us
today and help us in the future, that we
may live as becomes Latter-day Saints.”
	President Mary Watkins of the 4th ward
said: “I have always been a great one to
go to meeting through my life; I have seen
many ups and downs in my life but never
once have seen a time that I wished to turn
away from the Gospel. I have always had
a testimony and that has been a great help
to me, it has grown right up with me.”
	Sister Theone Mickelsen, president
of the Scandinavian association said: I feel
thankful that I have my name in the king-
dom of Christ. May we always have a de-
sire to do our duty.”
	Counselor Mary E. Wright said: “I feel
thankful to see people put away little,
mean feelings and look at themselves, if
each one of us will do this we will be in the
right path. We should never neglect to
call upon our Father in heaven when all is
well with us, then we will have more per-
fect faith when we are in trouble.”
	President Susannah T. Booth of the 1st
ward said: “We all have to answer for our
own faults. Before we were organized we
seemed to be strangers, but being united in
this Society we have begotten a love for
each other.”
	Secretary Annie Wixom said: “I think
the nearer we live to God, the more we en-
joy the spirit of trust and confidence in
Him.”
	President Mary Jansen of the 3rd ward
said: “If we are not living better than
other people the Lord cannot bless us. Let
us be humble and keep near the Lord,
then we are on safe ground.”
	President Christine Jensen of Mantua
said: “We have had several sad deaths in
our little valley of late, several sisters and
two men.” Related a dream of one sister,
who before her husband returned from his
mission was told that he would remain

[Column 2]
home but a short time and then be called on
another mission, which proved to be a final
call.
	Sister Widerborg invited all present to
stay and take luncheon in the vestry. Sing-
ing “Do what is right.” Benediction by
Emelia D. Madsen.
	AFTERNOON SESSION- Singing “How
great the joy of the promised.” Prayer by
Counselor Charles Kelley. Singing “O say
what is truth.”
	President Rebecca Thorne of Three
Mile Creek said: We are trying to do and
get along the best we can under the circum-
stances. I pray we may be able to perform
faithfully the duties devolving upon us.
	Counselor Mary Harding of Willard,
said: “We have had quite a little sickness
and some yet exists through the lack of
faith, we should be careful and wise. I
consider that I need to have the Spirit of
God in politics just as well as in other
duties.”
	Secretary Sadie Hansen from Beaver
Dam, said: “We have with the help of the
brethren put up a granary this fall that
will hold two thousand bushels of wheat,
and put fifty bushels into it.”
	President Charlotte Boden of the 2nd
ward, said: “ I feel weak and often feel that
I do not come up to my ideal. I feel
thankful to be numbered one with yon.” 
	A sister from Bear River City, said there
was peace and unity among the sisters.
	Counselor Mary Grant of Huntsville,
said: “When I saw the Prophet Joseph I
knew he was a true prophet. I was but a
little child when father told mother that the
prophet was killed, they both wept, I was
ashamed to let them see me cry so I went
out doors and cried to the Lord, ‘O Lord
what shall we do when we have no pro-
phet?’ and it came as plain as if some one
had said it, ‘We can raise up another as
well as this one,’ and so the Lord did.”
	Counselor Zella Reese said: “We need the
Spirit of God in our every day lives, we
need to be united and set a proper example
before our children for the adversary is
abroad.”
	President Widerborg said: “There is a
great responsibility placed upon us, are we
today as careful as we ought to be in our
acts and in our words? I feel so anxious
that you and I should serve the Lord with
earnest hearts, never speak lightly of the
principles of the Gospel, let us never help
the adversary. Let every effort of our
hearts be to build up faith. In your meet-
ings do not allude to those who have receiv-
ed help, let the treasurer keep a correct ac-
count of any one who is in need, but never
allude to it. Let us do our duty and never
speak one word against one another or those
placed over us. You remember Sister
Bowring died three months ago, Sister Eu-
genia S. Pierce has promised to take her
place.” Here it was moved and seconded
that Sister Eugenia S. Pierce act as assist-
ant secretary of the Relief Society of the
Stake of Box Elder, the vote was unani-
mous.
	President Rudger Clawson said: “I have
listened with great interest to the reports
and testimonies this afternoon. When our
spirits came into the world there was a pur-
pose in it, there is something for us to do.
Wo always need to draw near unto the
Lord so when sickness comes into our
homes we may have faith; we ought not to
be alarmed but calm, that we may exercise
faith, and when the sick are healed give the


[Column 1]
Lord the glory, the time will come when it
will be an extremely dangerous thing to
trust in the hand of flesh. May you be
blest in every good work and deed, I ask it
in the name of Jesus. Amen.
	Counselor Charles Keeley referred to
deaths within the last six months, said:
“Mothers in Israel and the Relief Society
may God bless you in your labors of love,
and may you in very truth be a Relief Soci-
ety.”
	Sister Eugenia S. Pierce was then set
apart to act as assistant secretary by Presi-
dents Clawson and Keeley. Singing “Our
God we raise to Thee.” Benediction by
Bishop A. Janson. Adjourned for three
months.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN Cor. Sec.
ALBERTA, CANADA. 
	THE Relief Society met in conference in
the Cardston Assembly Hall, Stake Presi-
dent Mary L. Woolf presiding.  Opened by
singing “Come all ye sons of Zion.” Pray-
er by Elder Marsden. Singing “Redeemer
of Israel.” Roll was called, each member
responding with a sentiment on faith, min-
utes of the previous conference were read
and approved.
	President Mary J. Woolf made opening
remarks. She felt grateful that our worthy
president, Zina D. H. Young, was present,
that we had the privilege of beholding her
dear face once more, and felt it a blessing
to come to meeting and partake of the holy
influence that is with us and which we
should seek for in our homes to assist us
with our many labors. Felt thankful that
we were progressing and growing in good
works and prayed the Spirit of God would
permeate every heart today.
	Counselor Rhoda Hinman felt it a privi-
lege to bear her testimony and said we
should live every day as though it were our
last. She showed the necessity of reading
good books and storing our minds with
knowledge, and spoke of her trials while in
Nauvoo and of her association with Presi-
dent Zina D. H. Young, said it made us
appreciate the peace we are surrounded
with at the present time.
	Counselor Jane Hinman felt that in de-
pending on our Heavenly Father for bless-
ings we were sure of them, and felt grate-
ful for the bounteous harvest, felt that
through fasting and prayer the Lord had
rewarded us with a good harvest which
would enable us to get out of debt She
exhorted us all to be cheerful in our home
with our loved ones and felt it was an
era for women that would help us to keep
pace with the times and teach our children
wisely.
	The congregation sang “O My Father.”
President Zina D. H. Young felt that she
had been edified in listening to the remarks
made and felt they were words of inspira-
tion. Referred to Joseph Smith’s counsel
at the organization of the Relief Society,
said that the sisters did not realize the mag -
nitude of the work then begun, and that he
had now turned the key for women. Urged
all to be good and kind and bear their trials
patiently, trust in God, ask Him for strength
in faith and humility and never be guilty of
the sin of ingratitude. This land is a
blessed land and God’s Spirit is with the
people here, He is merciful to us all, it is
easier to raise children here where evil is
not around us than it is in some places, pray-
ed God to preserve us, that the land maybe
kept pure and never be polluted, and closed

[Column 2]
by asking God’s blessing upon all in her
sweet, motherly way.
	Elder C. O. Card felt it a blessing to
have wives and mothers who can testify to
the things of the kingdom and instil good
principles into the hearts of the children,
they are valuable mothers. It is our call-
ing to fulfill any mission placed upon us,
to impress upon the minds of our sons that
the Priesthood emanates from heaven.
	Elder Henry L. Hinman said he was in-
terested in everything pertaining to God’s
work, that was the reason he was there.
Urged all to seek the rich gift of wisdom,
take time to read good books and adorn our
minds which sheds faith, that bright lustre,
to all around. Our children are our heri-
tage in the world to come, they will profit
by the lustre in our minds and we can ac-
quire this by complying with the require-
ments of the Gospel, seek for the gifts that
will be most beneficial. Spoke of the
glorious Millenium, said much depends up-
on the course we take in this life, and pray-
ed God to bless all and in an especial man-
ner our beloved Sister Young.
	Sister Zina Y. Card, president of the Y.
L. M. I. A., urged all to step forth in the
dignity and magnitude of our calling and
fill the place, and not disappoint the Pro-
phet Joseph who turned the key and open-
ed wide the door for women. Said let us
live so that our names will live after we are
gone, and gain the riches of eternity the
deeds of kindness are remembered and not
the wealth we possess. Prayed God to
bless her aged mother that she might come
again.
	President Mary Woolf made a few closing
remarks urging the sisters to take the “Wo-
man’s Exponent,” and prayed the Lord to
bless and aid the sisters in their labors
The officers of the Relief Society over all
the world were sustained, also the Stake
officers. Conference adjourned by singing
“O ye mountains high.” Benediction by
Elder J. Anderson.
		MARY L. WOOLF, Pres.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Mrs Mary An Fullmer, widow of the late J. S.
Fullmer died at the residence of her daughter in
Mary's Vale, November 28 1897. She was born in
Nas[-]ville. Tenn. in 1815 and married John S Full-
mer in 1836 and went with her husb[-]nd to Nau-
voo in 1840, and was baptized in o the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the same year.
She endured the persecutions with the rest of he
Saints and was intimately acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph and his [-]rother Hyrum and
mourned their martyrdom with the rest o[-] her
brethren an sisters. She came wi h her hu[-]band
and children to Salt Lake Ci y n Oct. 6, 1848,
and passed through all the hardships and [-]riva-
[-]ions of a pioneer wom n of Utah.
	She was pat ent through all a[-]d kept her
covenants faithfully to the last. She leaves
seven children and numerous grandch ldre and
great-grandchildren to mourn her departure. She
has gone to her rest belo ed and respected by
all who knew her, and a g orious crown awaits
her in the morning of the resurrection.
Her loving daughter
J. P. CU[-]TIS

SARAH A. STROCK.
	SARAH A. STROCK died at her home in Forest
Dale Friday, October 29, 1897, at 3 o'c ock. She
was born on the 14th day of June, A D. 1838, in
Franklin county, Pennsylvania and came to Utah
in 1862; resided in Salt Lake City until 1866 and
then removed to Fort Herriman, Sa t Lake coun-
ty, and was the first president of the Relief Soci-
ety of that place. She has always been connect-
ed with the Relief Society in the various wards in
which she has resided
	After living at Herriman for three years the
deceased returned to Salt Lake Ci[-]y and lived
there until about six years ago when she removed


to Forest Dale where she resided at the time of
her death. She had no children of her own but
was beloved for her motherly instincts by all who
knew her. If to relieve the distressed and to
visit and befriend the widow and he fatherless i
true religion then the deceased was truly re-
ligious. Of a humble, simple and unpretentious
na ure she y t im ressed all who met her with
the beauty of her character and the purity and
patience of her life.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, It has pleased A mighty God to
take from this sp ere of action our beloved and
respected member and ecre ary of this Society,
Sister Sarah H. Strock, and
	WHEREAS, In her demise we have lost a dear
friend and faithful Latter-day S int in whom
was love, charity and sympathy for those in need
and while we have to regret our deprivation of
the support of her ind m nable courage, her
ch erful sympathy and pleasant association and
fully realizing that it is God’s will that we should
be separated from her for a short time. There-
fore be it
	RESOLVED, That we condole with her bereaved
husband in this his great loss, who we feel assured
has the sympathy of all the members of this the
Forest Dale ward. And be it further
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed
upon the records of the Society.
			RELIEF SOCIETY OF FOREST DALE.


UTAH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

	THE organization of the State Historical
Society of Utah, which has been under way
since the midsummer Jubilee, was effected
at a meeting held first Tuesday Jan. 1898.
The meeting occured in the counting room
of the Utah National Bank, and assembled
in response to a call from the temporary
chairman, Mr. Jerrold R. Letcher. The
by-laws of the society were adopted and
the articles of incorporation signed, after
which the officers were chosen as follows:
	Franklin D. Richards, president; Isabella
Cameron Brown, vice-president; Jerrold R.
Letcher, recording secretary; James T.
Hammond, corresponding secretary; Lewis 
S. Hills, treasurer; Antoniette B. Kinney, 
librarian.
	Executive comittee—George W. Thatch-
er, Logan; Joseph Geoghegan, Salt Lake;
Lewis W. Shurtliff, Ogden; Joseph B.
Kingsbury, Salt Lake; Electa Bullock,
Provo; John T, Caine, Salt Lake; Robert
C. Lund, St. George; Charles C. Goodwin,
Salt Lake; Henry W. Lawrence, Salt Lake.
	The objects for which the society is or-
ganized are: “The encouragement of his-
torical research and inquiry, by the explor-
ation and investigation of aboriginal monu-
ments and remains; the collection of such
material as may serve to illustrate the
growth, development and resources of Utah
and the intermountain region; the preserv-
ation of manuscripts, papers, documents
and tracts of value, especially narratives of
the adventures of the early explorers and
pioneers; the establishment and maintenance
of a public library and museum; the cultiva-
tion of science, literature and the liberal
arts; the holding of meetings at stated inter-
vals for the interchange of views and critic-
sms.
THE CHARTER MEMBERS.
	Charles Adams, Parowan; Caleb R. Bar- 
ratt, Robert N. Baskin, Charles W. Bennett,
Alexander C. Bishop, Nat M. Brigham,
Isabella Cameron Brown, Salt Lake; Electa
Bullock, Provo; John T. Caine, Angus
M. Cannon, John Q. Cannon, Spencer
Clawson, Edward F. Colborn, George Q.
Coray, Benjamin F. Cummings Jr., Chris
Diehl, John E. Dooly. Williard Done, Ellen


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
B. Ferguson, Salt Lake; James X. Fergu-
son, Helper; Charles C. Goodwin, Joseph
Geoghegan, Heber J. Grant Salt Lake;
James T. Hammond, Logan; Harry C. 
Hill, Tidelia Belcher Hamilton, Lewis S.
Hills, Salt Lake; John Horton, American
Fork; William Howard, Huntington; Had-
ley D. Johnson, Andrew Jenson, Joseph T.
Kingsbury, Antoinette B. Kinney, Clesson
S. Kinney, Eurithe K. La Barthe, Henry
Lawrence, Salt Lake; William A. Lee,
Ogden; Jerrold R. Letcher, Salt Lake;
Robert C. Lund, St. George; John T.
Lynch Thomas Marshall, Salt Lake; Jacob
F. Miller, Farmington; Elias Morris, Wil-
liam S. McCornick, Salt Lake; Harry F.
McCune, Nephi; Emma J. McVicker, Salt
Lake, Aqulla Nebeker, Laketown; John
Parry, Cedar; Orlando W. Powers, Charles
W. Penrose, Arthur Pratt, Salt Lake;
Franklin D. Richards, Ogden; Franklin S.
Richards, Morris L. Ritchie, Charles R.
Savage, Salt Lake; Lewis W. Shurtliff,
Ogden; Elias A. Smith, Grant H. Smith,
John Henry Smith, Salt Lake; Joseph D.
Smith, Logan; Abraham O. Smoot, Provo;
George W. Thatcher, Logan; Mat Thomas,
Farmington; Emmeline B. Wells, Salt
Lake; Barry Wride, Provo; Heber M.
Wells, Horace G. Whitney, Orson F.
Whitney, Everett W. Wilson, Parley L.
Williams, John R. Winder, Alfales Young,
Richard W. Young, Charles S. Zane, Salt 
Lake.
BY-LAWS
	Section 1. Any person of good, moral
character who is interested in the work of
this society may be eligible to membership
upon complying with the conditions pre-
scribed in these by-laws.
	Section 2. Active members shall con-
sist of residents of the State of Utah. Life
members shall consist of such residents of
the State as may contribute not less than 
$50 to the endowment fund of the society.
Corresponding members shall consist of
non-residents of the State of literary and
historical attainments. Honorary members
may consist of explorers and Pioneers, or
persons distinguished for literary or scien-
tific work, particularly in the line of
American history, who are non-residents of
the State.
	Section 3. Applications for membership
shall be endorsed by not less than three
active members in good standing and pre-
sented to the board of control, and, in the
case of active and life memberships, must
be accompanied by the initiation fee.
	Section 4. Life, corresponding and
honorary members shall be exempt from
the payment of dues and assessments.
	Section 5. Members shall be chosen by
majority vote of the board of control—ex-
cept honorary members—who shall be elect-
ed at the annual meetings of the Society.
	Section 6. Any member may be expelled
for cause by the board of control, upon
charges duly preferred, and after a hearing,
subject to the right of appeal to the society
at the next ensuing annual meeting; pro-
vided that a failure to pay any dues or as-
sessments for six months shall work a for-
feiture of membership.
	The by-laws provide for commissioners
to be appointed each year by the president,
and during the summer of every year there
will be a field day of the society.
	The initial and annual membership fees
ars each $2, and the board of control are
given authority to levy assessments not to

[Column 2]
exceed $1, and to be made not more fre-
quent than than once a year.
	The regular meeting of the board of con-
trol will be held the first week in January,
April, July and October of each year, and
the president or board are authorized to call
special meetings. The regular meetings of
the society for the transaction of general
business are to be held on the third Mon-
day in January of each year.


“FRET NOT THYSELF”

(Psalms.)
Wh refore ar thou fearful, brother?
	Sister why this dread of ill?
God who succored ancient Israel,
	Lives and loves His children still.
Cling to Him with trust unshaken;
	Every blessing waits for you;
All His words a e full of p[-]omis[-],
	All His p[-]omises are true!
If unaided we were s[-]riving,
	St[--]1 to keep the narrow way,
With no Friend Alwise to guide us,
	Dark indeed would be this day:
But as mother-love doth nestle
	Tenderly the inf[-]nt form,
God’s own s elt’ring a[-]ms s[-]all fold us,
	M[-]dst the fierce and chilling storm.
Be not troubled, brother, sister,
	Sink not ’neath your weight of cares;
Earth and all things are our Father’s
	Are not we His legal heirs?
Yes if we are meek and humble,
	Honest, virtuous nd true;
Penitent for all our follies,
	M rciful to others, too.
Saints of God! can ye be doubtful,
	Who have seen the wond’rous pow’r,
Shown in might [-]o guard His pe p e,
	Through the darkest d[-]y and hour?
Unto each He grants some portion,
	Of sustaining strength and skill;
Use those precious gif s in wisdom;
	Pra[-]se His name and trust Him sti l.
Fret not, but wi h patience wait ye,
	In the Lord your souls delight;
Purified and cleansed from evil,
	W[-]en His people will unite,
In the strength of faith and virtue,
	Then shall strife and trouble cease,
And the meek and willing triumph,
	In abundance, love and peace.
LULA.
January, 1898.


MRS. HANNAH J. BAILEY, of Winthrop
Me., is one of the most earnest advocates of
international arbitration. She inherited
her ideas from her father David Johnson, a
minister in the Society of Friends.


[Column 1]
Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

[shield logo]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[beside the logo]
The
People’s
Favorite

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City		7:00 a. m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver						6:25 p. m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City			3:10 p. m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver					0 a. m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK,
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
					Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nat[-]on. 241

VOL. 26. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1898. [--] NO. 17.


CONTENTS:
	Origin of Some of our Popular Songs—Mrs. M.
C. Woods. Re ief Society in Los Angelos—A. S.
Polynesia—Emma Jenson. R S. and P A. Re-
ports. In Memoriam. Egypt—Louide.
	EDITORIAL:—Woman’s Memorial Building.
A Poet’s Evening. Edito ial Notes.
	POETRY:—Pilgrims of the West—Arethusa. A
Song—Lucy A. Clark.


[Column 1]
PILGRIMS OF THE WEST.

THERE are tunes that fit to the player’s lyre
	As airs seem born for the leaf-stringed trees;
There are themes that thrill to the poet’s fire
	As a flame leaps high on the desert breeze.
And of all of the themes that the land has known—
	To make the soul of a bard aspire—
	Of faith, toil, sacrifice—none are higher
Than a tale that our far west calls her own.

It had its source in a faith whose test
	Outrivals those idylls of orient lore—
Mohammed’s mission, the Buddh’s great quest—
	And the thousand myths of Hellene’s shore;—
A vision won by a boy’s prayer,
	A wondrous tale by an angel told
	Of an ancient mound and its plates of gold,
And a new world creed that their leaves should
	bear.

And from that strange fountain a slender stream
	Ran out and grew to a rolling flood,
For thousands thrilled at the Prophet’s dream,
	And signed their faith with a seal of blood;
And, at last to the hosts of his gathered flock
	A final edict of exile came—
	A word that the unknown west should claim
As the mould of her life’s foundation rock.

They left fair homes at a stern fate’s need
	And turned their steps to the setting sun
Where freedom sought for a faith-held creed,
	In the untrod wilderness might be won.
Forbade of the haunts of men they drew
	To the desert’s ominous, empty heart,
	And the halo of martyr,s and Spartan’s part
The wastes of the lonely prairies knew.

For terrors dwelt in the desert’s hush—
	Treacherous Indians ambuscade,
The herded buffalo’s tempest-rush,
	The prairie famine of fire’s raid;
And the line of their weary wagon tread
	Haunted with hardships for unused feet—
	Privation, piercings of sun and sleet,
Was sown with graves of the wayside dead.

Suns waned, and the plodding pilgrims saw
	The haze of the fair horizon line
On the speckless edge of the desert draw
	No hint of the promised Zion’s sign.
The noons spread wide on the trailless sands,
	The blue nights paced with their golden train
	O’er the Sister-vast of a spaceless plain
That the red dawns circled with widening bands.
 
Yet at last the ridges of snow-rimmed hills
	Filed their ranks to the eye-strained view,
And out from the edge of their upland sills
	The peak-walled curve of a valley drew
Its sunburned, sage-choked, ample space
	To aline stretched wide at its western rim—
	Radiant, crisping-a sea’s blue brim—
Cupped in the colorless prairie-face.

[Column 2]
And they hailed the spot as the land foretold
	Where the lofty tree of their faith should grow,
And pitched their tents on the desert mould
	In the eastward bend of the salt sea’s bow.
And their faith—hard nurtured by sorest b[-]ight—
	Cold, danger, famine, the cricket-curse—
	As a child by a kind, harsh seeming nurse—
Brought on the land to its day of light.

A fair, rose-gardened city grew 
	On the barren shores of the hermit sea;
And the world’s far marts erstwhile close drew
	With Trade’s white banner of amity.
For steam crushed out wit[-] its geni-stride
	The vaunted leagues of the trackles plains
	That had taunted their crawling wagon trains—
And peace drew in with the travel tide.

And today through the length of the hope thrilled
		land,
	After a half a hundred years—
The foes of a buried past strike hard,
	O'er a strong bridged chasm of hates and fears
And join in the joy of a rivalled zest
	—Barred not of race, of color or creed—
	To render honor—a fitting meed
To the Pioneers of the inland west.

That dawning of peace with its hope thrilled song
	Is a pæan hymned to the long past years—
To the dead and the living—the brave and strong
	Who conquered the desert—the Pioneers 1
And we pledge that day when the honored name
	Of the State they nurtured through grace dvine
	By the right of her thousand gifts shall shine,
A soverei[-]n light of the Nation’s fame?
						“ARETHUSA”


[Column 1]
ORIGIN OF SOME OF OUR POPULAR
SONGS.

M. C. WOODS.
	"OLD songs are best; how sweet to hear
	The strains to home and memory dear"

	The story of some of our old songs may
give them a new and greater interest and
bring us into more sympathetic feeling with
the authors.
	I have selected a few from among the
many which have sung their way into the
hearts of the people; for many of them are
known the wide world over. Some of the
authors have won immortal fame through a
moment of inspiration; while others have
given a lifetime of thought and suffering to
the compositions that have brought them
fame and honor.
	As an example of the inspiration of the
hour we have the "Battle Hymn of the
Republic" by Julia Ward Howe, who, I
once heard say, "felt that she was not re-
sponsible for the song, for it was born
under the inspiration of the time and hour."
	This famous hymn was written in Dec-
ember 1861, in the city of Washington.
One night after a day of great excitement
when she had been listening to the strains
of martial music all day and watching the
soldiers marching by, she went to bed with
the strains of "John Brown's Body" ring-
ing in her ears; she could not sleep and
found herself without effort putting new
words to the tune: line by line the poem

[Column 2]
evolved itself. She must have been a very
orderly woman, for rising quickly she found
paper and pencil and in the absolute dark-
ness of the night put the words on paper
without seeing what she wrote; and this
was the birth of "Mine eyes have seen the
glory of the coming of the Lord."
	None of our national airs are more dra-
matic in their origin than "The Star Spang-
led Banner" which it has always seemed to
me should be our national Hymn. At the
time of the attack on Fort McHenry, made
by Admiral Cockburn Sep. 18. 1814,
Francis Scott Wey was held a prisoner in
a little boat moored to the commanders
vessel; through the whole day and night
exposed to the fire from the shore, he
watched the flag on the Fort, and at break
of day on the 14th he saw it waving, "our
flag was still there." Then taking an old
letter from his pocket and using a barrel
head for a table, he wrote at fever heat the
poem which he called "The Defense of
Fort McHenry." It was set to the music
of "Anacreon in Heaven," an opera in two
acts by Cherubine. In 1832 on a dismal
day in February while looking over some
German music books, Dr. Samuel F. Smith
found a tune which from its simple and
natural movement seemed particularly suited
to childrens' voices, a subject he was then
greatly interested in. He noted it as hav-
ing a patriotic swing and felt inspired on
the spot to write a patriotic hymn of his
own, which he did in just half an hour's
time. He did not know at the time that
the tune he adapted to his hymn "My
Country 'tis of Thee," was the national
British anthem "God save the Queen."
	"God save the King" (or Queen) has,
by the way, been the subject of endless
discussion. It is said by some, in the be-
ginning to have been a Jacobite song re-
ferring to James II., "The King over the
water." The words "Send him victorious,"
seem to imply an absent king not the one
already in England but one far away, to
whom the singers were loyal in his evil
fortune. It is believed to have been written
by Henry Corey, who lived in six reigns
and who also wrote "Sally in our Alley."
	The French national anthem, "La Mar-
sellaise," which is ringing full of patriotic
frenzy, was written words and music in a
single night and won for its author literary
immortality. The author who was Rouget
de Lisle, a young officer of engineers at
Strasburg in 1792, was asked by Deitrick
the mayor of the town to write a martial
song to be sung on the departure of six
hundred volunteers to the army of the
Rhine. Lisle composed the song that night
in a fervor of feeling, music and words at
the same time; sometimes the words came
first, sometimes the music; but he wrote
nothing. In the morning the chant came
to him like the echo of a dream and he
wrote it down, words and music and car-
ried to it Deitrick. In an hour the listening
assemblage knew the song of the nation
was born.
	Many nations claim "Yankee Doodle,"—
In the time of Charles I., it was known in


[Column 1]
England as “Nankee Doodle,”—and the
Hollanders had the same air to a song called
“Yanker Dudel,”—the French claim it as
an old vintage song,—the Hungarians as a
native air,—the Biscayans as the ancient
music of the native sword dance. In June
1755, the regimental surgeon under Brad-
dock thought he’d play a joke on the rag-
ged, tattered Continentals, by palming off
this song of the time of Cromwell, on the
colonial soldiers as the latest martial music;
the tune at once caught the popular fancy;
but later the tables were turned and the
joke was on the other side, when the Conti-
nental band played “Yankee Doodle” as
Lord, Cornwallis marched out, after sur-
rendering his army, his sword and the
English colonies to the “Yankees.”
	In 1798 when Congress in session at
Philadelphia was debating what attitude to
assume in the struggle between France and
England, party feeling was intense and the
very air was at white heat with enthusiastic
patriotism. A young man who was a
singer at the Theatre in Philadelphia came
to his friend Joseph Hopkinson and begged
him to write a patriotic song adapted to the,
then, very popular music of the “President’s
March,” saying he knew it would save the
day. The following afternoon the song
“Hail Columbia” was ready and was ar-
ranged by a member of the orchestra to the
music known then as the “President’s
March.” It was duly and well advertised,
the house was packed and the song was en-
cored amid the wildest enthusiasm. It has
since been adopted by common consent as
the national anthem of America.
	Among the war songs none is a greater
favorite than “Marching Through Georgia.”
It is often called, and appropriately I think,
the “American Marseillaise.” It was 
written in 1865, by Henry C. Work, of
Chicago, a printer and remarkable song
writer: he often composed his songs at the
case as he set up type; and if he had access
to music type, the music also, the piece
seldom needing more than one or two alter-
ations. “Marching Through Georgia”
was written thus.
	Without doubt; “The Girl I Left Behind
Me” is of Irish origin. Neither author nor
date are certain but it is supposed to have
been written in 1758. It is the tune play-
ed by every man-of-war weighing anchor,
and regiments leaving a town where they
have been stationed always give this gal-
lant parting to the ladies. It is said to be
the most popular air among all soldiers and
sailors.
	But the marching song of the Nation is
“John Brown’s Body,” and it has a pecu-
liar history. When in 1859 John Brown
was hanged in Charlestown, Virginia, the
boys of Boston paraded the streets sing-
ing a monotonous chant, the burden of
which was “Go tell John Anderson John
Brown’s dead.” A year or so later Thane
Miller heard the melody of “John Brown’s
Body” in a colored church in Charleston,
South Carolina, and introduced it at a Y.
M. C. Association convention at Albany,
New York. James E. Greenwich, an
organist of Charleston Mass., fitted this
air to the first stanza of the present song.
It became a popular favorite and Charles S.
Hall wrote additional verses. Walter
Kittedge was drafted into the army in
1862, and while preparing to go to the
front he wrote the words and music in a few
minutes. Hundreds of thousands of copies
of this song have been sold.

[Column 2]
“Old songs are best,” writes one of the
poets: be that as it may, we know some old
songs are ever beautiful and bonny; and
“Annie Laurie” was ever and always will
be a favorite. It was a love poem address-
ed by William Douglas to the eldest daugh- 
ter of Sir Robert Laurie of Maxwelton; but
unfortunately this sweet poem so full of
delicate flattery failed to touch Miss Annie’s
heart, for she later became Mrs. Ferguson.
The music to which it is now sung is the
composition of Lady John Scott. 
	Robert Burns wrote only the second and
third stanzas of “Auld Lang Syne,”
though he retouched them all, there were
three earlier versions. The air to which it
is sung is an old Lowland melody, and
was selected by Mr. George Thompson.
	‘Comin’ thro’ the Rye” is another old
Scotch song retouched by Burns; it refers to
the fording of the little river Rye, when it
was the custom of the lads to exact a toll of
kisses from the lasses they met on the step-
ping stones in crossing over.
	For fifty years the authorship of “Old
Robin Gray” was a secret limited to the family
the one who wrote it, Lady Anna Lindsay,
she wrote ballads to wile away weary, and
lonely hours. Robin was a herdsman on
her father’s estate.
	“Rory O’ More” was written by Samuel
Lover as a protest against the coarseness of
the ordinary Irish song, full of hurra’s and
whack fol de rols. At a social gathering he
expressed his disgust and was asked taunt-
ingly if he could do better. “Rory
O’More” was the answer to the taunt.
	Perhaps in the whole range of songs, old
and new, none is more popular than that
sweet and plaintive air “Robin Adair.”
The real Robin in whose honor the words
were written was a native of County Wick-
low, Ireland, and a descendant of the Des-
mond Fitz Geralds, the mighty Geraldines.
His father was made a Knight Baronet after
the battle of Boyne. While Robin (or
Robert) was studying medicine in Dublin
he got in some scrape and having little
money and few friends, he thought the best
way out of it was to go away; so he set out
on foot for London. The roads were in a
terrible condition and he had not gone far
when he came upon a carriage which had
been overturned. The owner and occupant
of the vehicle, a fashionable young lady,
was slightly hurt and greatly alarmed.
Adair at once offered his services, attended
the lady’s hurt, helped to right the carriage
and was invited by the lady to take a seat
in it, as her protector. Arriving in Lon-
don she presented him with a fee of a hun-
dred guineas and invited him to come after
to the house. Robin Adair was wise and
energetic; he studied assiduously and soon
with the assistance of his patroness acquired
a good practice at the best end of town. He
was frequently at dances given by this
young lady and others, and one night at a
party found that his partner was the second
daughter of the Earl of Albermarle, Lady
Caroline Keppel. It was a case of mutual
love at first sight. Her kinsfolk were
stupified with amazement and she was
soon sent abroad to be cured of her folly,
but without avail, and she fell very ill.
About 1750 when at Bath for her health,
she wrote the verses now so popular and
adapted them to the air of “Eileen Aroon,”
which doubtless Robin had often sung to
her. At last the separation from Adair and
the importunities of her relatives caused
her to become so ill that the doctors des-

[Column 3]
paired of her life and finally the union of
the pair was consented to. 
	Shortly after their marriage Adair was
appointed Inspector General of Military
Hospitals, and later made Surgeon General,
Kings’ Sergeant and Surgeon of Chelsea
Hospital. Good fortune did not spoil him
and he worked hard at his profession. He
treated the Duke of Glouscester so success-
fully that the king offered to make him a
Baronet, but he declined the honor. Adored
and admired by all who knew him he lived
to the age of eighty and died lamented
most deeply. Lady Caroline died rather
early and her husband, except when ob-
liged on state occasions to put on a court
costume, wore mourning for his love till he
died in 1790. He was buried with her in
the family vault. Their only son, the
Right Hon. Sir Robert Adair, had a bril-
liant career as a diplomatist and died in
1855.
	“The Last Rose of Summer” one of the
peerless Patti’s favorite songs, was among
the most popular of Thomas Moore’s Irish
melodies. The air, which is a very old one,
formerly known as the “Groves of Blarney”
is found in the collection of the music of
Ireland two hundred years old.
	“Home Sweet Home,” written by John
Howard Payne an American and a homeless
exile and wanderer, brought the prima
donna who first sung it a rich husband,
the publisher of the song ten thousand dol-
lars and the author fame only. In 1823,
Charles Kemble bought from Payne a num-
ber of plays and among them one entitled
“Clari, the Maid of Milan.” In extreme
poverty in an attic in Paris, Payne received
the order to change the play into an opera;
he did so and wrote for it this song, which
was an instant success.
	“Listen to the Mocking Bird” was writ-
ten for an old colored man named Dick
Milburn, who was blind and who used to
wander about the streets of Philadelphia
whistling like a mocking bird. It at once
caught the public ear and paid its publish-
ers one hundred thousand dollars. The
author was Septimus Winner who wrote
under his pen name of Alice Hawthorne.
	“Rock Me to Sleep Mother” was anoth-
er song which brought little to its author,
who received five dollars for the poem.
Published by the Saturday Evening Post it
brought the publishers many thousand dol-
lars and was claimed by a dozen persons,
but the real writer was Elizabeth Akers
(now Allen.) The song was written in
Italy.
	“Nancy Lee,” of world Wide popularity
was the work of an hour, words and music.
Frederick Weatherly while waiting for a
dilatory pupil wrote the song, words and
music. Its popularity was dimmed for a
time from the fact that the sailors of the
“Princess Alice” were singing the song
when the ship went down.
	“Then You’ll Remember Me” by Rolfe,
was written as a solo in the “Bohemian
Girl,” first presented in 1844.
	Mrs. Emma Willard an American teach-
er and author while on a ship coming from
Europe wrote “Rocked in the Cradle of the
Deep.” The air to which it is now sung
was composed by Joseph P. Knight, an
Englishman.
	Of the songs which reach the heart none
are more popular than “Ben Bolt” revived
by Du Maurler in his novel entitled “Tril-
by.” Dr. Thomas Dunn English wrote
the song for the New York Union at the


[Column 1]
request of N. P. Willis, its editor, who
wanted a sea song. The last line of the
poem was the only sea line Dr. English
could think of, "Ben Bolt of the salt sea
gale." The air adapted to the song by
Nelson Kareass was from an old German
melody.
	"Maid of Athens" is a tribute by Lord
Byron to the beautiful Theresa Macri,
daughter of the English vice-consul at
Athens. Twenty-four years after the song
was written an Englishman in Greece
sought out the "Maid of Athens" and
found her married, the mother of a large
family, no traces of her beauty left and in
abject want and poverty.
	Samuel Woodworth, a tramp printer,
coming into his house one day, tired and
thirsty, poured out a glass of water and
drank it eagerly saying to his wife "How
refreshing that is, but how much more re-
freshing would be a good long draught
from the old oaken bucket in my father's
well at home." His wife suggested that it
would be a good subject for a poem and
under the inspiration of the moment he
wrote "The Old Oaken Bucket."
	"The Angel's Whisper" by Samuel
Lover, is based on the old superstition in
Ireland that when a child smiles in its
sleep it is listening to the angels. The
music is an old Irish air, "Mary do ye
Fancy Me?"
	"Kathleen Mavourneen," usually spoken
of as having been written by Professor F.
Nicolks Cronch, was in reality the work of
Mrs. Louise M. Crawford, an English poet.
She was the collaborator of Proffessor
Cronch in the issue of several books of
songs; she writing the words, he t[--] music.
	It is one thing to sit in a theatre in New
York amid a scene of brilliant glitter and
fashion and hear the marvelous voice of
Patti rippling on the melody of "Way
Down upon de Swanee Ribber" and anoth
er to travel through the South till one
comes suddenly upon the clear, silent waters
of this stream. Just how this narrow little
sand-bottomed, blue-watered river, that
plays so small a part on the map of the
United States as does the Swanee, could
ever have become, all because of a mere
song, so famous in this wide world, seems
strange. "The old Folks at Home,"
sometimes called the "Swanee River" was
written by Stephen C. Foster and is a
great favorite the world over.
	"The Old Kentucky Home" also written
by Foster, is said to have been suggested to
him on hearing an old negro speak with
love and longing of his old home in Ken-
tucky. Several of Mr. Foster's songs were
composed on brown paper in the back room
of a little grocery store in New York.
"Massa's in de Cold. Cold Ground" is one of
his best compositions; he got the idea of
this song in Covington, Kentucky. He
heard a slave bewailing the fact that his
good old master was dead, and that now he
and other old slaves worn out in service,
would pass into the hands of less kindly
owners. Foster wrote both music and
words of his songs.
	Lord Arthur Hill had a romantic woo-
ing. His present wife acted in the capacity
of companion to his mother, the Marchion-
ess of Devonshire, and while she knew his
love for her and reciprocated, she felt a
marriage with her would be against his in-
terest and so without saying a word she sud-
denly disappeared. With many difficulties
he discovered her whereabouts and induced

[Column 2]
her to reconsider her determination. It was
this episode she embalmed in poetry in the
song "In the Gloaming."
	The composition of Sir Arthur Sulli-
van's beautiful song, "The Lost Chord," is
linked with sad memories in the life of the
composer. One night during the last ill-
ness of his beloved brother Frederick, when
for three weeks he had watched night and
day beside him, as the end drew near he
fell into a peaceful sleep. Sitting by his
bedside Sir Arthur chanced to come across
Adelaide Procter's poems which five years
before had greatly impressed him; as he
read them over again in the stillness of the
night their musical equivalent seemed to
sound in his ears. A stray sheet of paper
was at hand and he began to write. He
grew absorbed in it as the music grew and
determined to finish the song; even if it
proved worthless in the cold light of day it
would have helped to while away the hours
of watching. Thus was written "The
Lost Chord," perhaps the most successful
as certainly one of the most beautiful songs
of modern times. Its sale already has ex-
ceeded two hundred and fifty thousand
copies.
	Mr. Sankey's song "Ninety and Nine"
was named originally by Mr. Moody "The
Lost Sheep." The great Evangelists were
holding meetings in England one night
when Mr. Moody asked Mr. Sankey if he
had any song on the text of "The Good
Shepherd." Mr. Sankey had found in a
paper, while on the train some days pre-
viously, a poem signed anonymous, cut it
out and slipped it into his pocket. There
are golden moments in the evangelists
work, this was one of them. Something
seemed to say to him over and over, "Sing
the verses you found on the train." He
opened his note book, took out the scrap
and the second thought came, "How can I
sing a song without a tune?" meanwhile
the audience was waiting; he gave one
moment to silent supplication then struck a
full chord on the organ and began to sing.
He did not know what chords he played or
what notes he sang, he was thinking of
that poor, lone sheep and the Good Shep-
herd who searched through the night and
brought it home, and somehow he got
through the first verse, then he paused and
played some chords waiting to begin the
second. He knew that every heart in that
vast audience was with him and that every
breath was held in expectation, and the
thought came, "Can I remember the notes
to sing the same tune as the first verse?"
He concentrated his mind and began to sing
again, and so went through the five verses.
The audience sat as still as death till he
finished with the last glad shout.

	"And the angels echoed around the throne,
	Rejoice for the Lord brings back His own."

When it was all over Mr. Moody came
down from the pulpit and putting his hand
on his friend's shoulder said, "My dear friend
where did you get that song? I never heard
anything like it." "That," said Mr.
Sankey. "is the poem I read to you on
the train and you didn't listen to it."

"There is in souls a sympathy with sounds;
And as the mind is pitched the ear is pleased
With melting airs, or martial, brisk or grave,
Some chord in unison with what we hear
Is touched within us, and the heart replies."

	Read before the "Treble Clef," Wallace,
Ida., Dec. 24, 1897.


212	WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY AT LOS ANGELOS.

	“THE poor you will always have with
you.” Perhaps that is what prompted the
sisters of the Relief Society to have a Fair.
The day was set for Monday, a week be-
fore Christmas; so accordingly an advertise-
ment was inserted in the morning papers
which read: Latter-day Saint’s Social and
Bazar to be held at 245 So. Spring St., Dec.
20, 1897. Delicious lunches served, pro-
gram rendered, some dancing engaged in.
Admission free.
	Promptly at 7 o'clock the doors were
opened. The large hall was very beauti-
fully decorated and showed the artistic skill
of those Saints and Elders who strove so
faithfully to make our first Fair a success.
	The hall was trimmed with pepper
boughs and smilax, Japanese lanterns were
suspended around the room, a profusion of
flowers and polen leaves lent their assistance
to present a pleasing appearance. One
corner of the hall was utilized by the sisters
of the Relief Society for the sale of their
many articles.
	’Twas indeed encouraging and gratifying
to the Elders to think that through the
labors of the missionaries such a promising
branch had been built up in this Calfornia
city.
	The beautifully arranged tables well filled
with fancy and useful articles all of which
was the work of the Saints in this branch
and donated for the benefit of the Fair,
showing the interest they manifest in the
work here. The evening’s exercises were
opened by a word of prayer from Elder
Harding, followed by a few interesting re-
marks from Brother Jacobson, president of
this branch. The program included recita-
tions, musical selections both instrumental
and vocal, solos, duetts and trios
	Off in one corner the game of fish pond 
was in progress, the liberal patronage it re-
ceived pronounced the game a great suc-
cess. There was a handsome doll and a
large oil painting on exhibition. In a
little room apart from the main hall the
young ladies dispensed refreshments in the
most approved manner.
	President Nye, whom we are always
glad to see, was with us. Those mission-
ary Elders present were Brothers Harding,
Bachman, Pratt, West and Athey. Toward
the close of the entertainment the sisters de-
cided to auction some of the articles yet un-
sold. Elder Pratt acted as auctioneer, and
he sold everything he could lay his hands
on without reserve, to the highest bidder;
but the sisters thought the bids not high
enough when dolls marked at two dollars
were sold for twenty-five cents, so called a
halt and Elder Pratt reluctantly gave up
his position.
	The Fair was a success both financially
and socially, a good spirit prevailed during
the whole evening and everybody returned
home feeling that our first attempt at a Fair
was a great success.
	Thanks to the untiring efforts of Sister
E. Woollacott, president of the Society, 
and her two counselors, Sisters Rand and
Hedberg.
					A. H. SHAMOS.


A MONUMENT has been raised in South
Corolina over the grave of Lucinda Horne,
who went all through the Civil war with
her husband. It is said that this is the only
battle monument on any woman’s grave ex-
cept that of Joan of Arc.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY February 1, 1898.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S MEMORIAL BUILDING.

	THE George Washington memorial com-
mittee of Utah held a meeting in the city
on February 1st, at 2 p. m., at the residence
of Mrs. O. J. Salisbury, chairman for Utah
appointed by the central committee of which
Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson of Boston is
chairman. The meeting was called by
Mrs. C. E. Allen, vice-chairman by request of
Mrs. Salisbury, who is still in New York
City. Mrs. Salisbury went to Washington
to attend the Woman’s Congress held there
by the Washington Memorial Association
on Dec. 14, 15 and 16, 1897, for the pur-
pose of planning a system of campaign in
the interest of the memorial or administra-
tion building or which the women of the
country have undertaken to raise a fund of
$250,000. At the meeting held on Febru-
ary 1, it was considered and voted upon as
the sentiment of the meeting that the $1,000
from this state be given by the children in
pennies or nickels. Committees were ap-
pointed by the chair to wait upon the
Governor of the State and the State Super-
intendent of schools and also the board of
education of Salt Lake City and lay the mat-
ter of collections before them for their views
and suggestions

	“For nearly one hundred years the last
will of Washington has stood as a monu-
ment of his sagacity in foreseeing the fact
that a state founded on popular intelligence
would need facilities for the highest special-
ization as well as for universal education.
His will is unfulfilled. Is it not a reproach to
us as a people that the wisdom of one of
our greatest men has not been heeded?
	“Education in politics and good govern-
ment was a part of his thought, and the
need is as great today as ever. The safety
of the home and of individual liberty de-
pends upon the proper education of states-
men. The future of the nation and of the
race demands the service of the most care-
fully trained minds, that by public hygiene
and preventive medicine, stalwart bodies
may be the rule; that the complex relation
of sex and of capital and labor arising from
the introduction of machinery may cease to
threaten the welfare of children yet unborn;
that a higher type of education for every in-
dividual child may be evolved; that material
conditions may not stifle the spiritual life of
the people.
	“Opportunity for research, investigation,
which alone can produce these results, is
slightly cared for in this country. Our
students flock to Europe for it. Where in

[Column 2]
universities it is provided, it is done by the
uncertain gifts of individuals, and depends
upon the fluctuations of interest-bearing
securities. The nation could receive such
gifts and give stability to the income, could
confer grants and thus insure the highest
opportunities to young people of genius. In
democracy still more than in a monarchy
this opportunity should be given, because
in a democracy the fruits of genius more
readily become the property of all.
	“The George Washington Memorial Com-
mittee desires to raise a fund of $250,000
for a building, the administrative home for a
National University, and they wish every
man woman and child in the United States
to hear of Washington’s bequest, and to
have the opportunity of giving a small sum
for this memorial. February 22, 1898, has
been selected as the Offering Day to the
memory of our honored first president.”


A POET’S EVENING.

	ON the evening of Friday, January 21,
last, a number of the old-time friends of Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow, the sublime and eminent
leader among the women of Zion, kept her
birthday anniversary at the home of the
writer. There were about forty of the sis-
ters present among whom were the vener-
able women Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella
Horne and Bathsheba W. Smith and others
not so far advanced in life. These three
Mothers in Israel were members of the first
organization of the Relief Society in Nau-
voo, and had always been closely associated
with “Sister Eliza.”
	The hymn “O My Father” was sung and
prayer was offered by Sister M. Isabella
Horne—following the prayer the ladies
joined in singing “Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah,” Sister Zina
made a brief address and the hostess read
letters of regret from Sisters Jane S. Rich-
ards of Ogden, Sarah M. Kimball, Emma
Woodruff and others of Salt Lake City.
Many of the ladies present read choice
selections from her favorite poem of the es-
teemed and revered poetess; and the time
flew by on “wings of the wind” so to
speak. Simple refreshments were served
although the party was more of a spiritual
and poetic nature than one of feasting and
merriment.
	The memory of the beloved “elect lady”
was fresh and tender in the minds of all
present. Her writings, her teachings her
travels at home and abroad, her labors
among the people and in the Temple were
all remarked upon in the general conversa-
tion. Sister Eliza lives in the hearts of the
Saints and her good works will never die.
She is immortalized by her poems, and the
writer would recommend that the Young
People’s Association keep copies of her two
volumes of poems in their libraries. There
is a large number for sale at the Deseret
News Office, and they are considered valu-
able additions to the literature of the
Church. The children of Zion should be
taught to venerate the memory of one who
did so much for them, in visiting, teaching
and organizing; besides the books written
expressly for their use. The Primary
Hymn Book and Tune Book, Questions
and Answers and the Primary Speaker
Vols. I. and II. Beside the books already
mentioned Sister Eliza edited and published
Correspondence from Palestine and The Life
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, and family
history.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE secretary of each Stake organization
of the Relief Society will please send statis-
tical and financial report of her respective
Stake for the year 1897, as soon as possible
to the General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton, Salt Lake City. Branches of
the Relief Society not included in any of the
Stakes of Zion will also send annual reports
so that the secretary may be able to prepare
a complete and correct report of the Society
in good time for the April conference.
	AN exquisite dinner party was given in
this city on Monday January 31, to about
fifty ladies, intimate friends of the honored
guest ot the occasion, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young. The party was given by Mes-
dames Maria Y. Dougall and Phebe Y.
Beatie at the residence of Mrs. Beatie. Mrs.
Jane S. Richards of Ogden was the only
missing guest. As it was also her birthday
as well as Mrs. Young’s the supposition was
she was detained at home by some recogni-
tion in her honor. The affair was a delight-
ful social success. Mrs. Young was the re-
cipient of many hearty congratulations and
expressions of tender affection. As a
mother in Israel no woman is more truly
beloved and appreciated by the Latter-day
Saints.
THE CLEOFAN.
	ON Tuesday afternoon Jan. 25, at 2. p.
m. at the club which met at the home of
Mrs. H. L. A. Culmer, 27 C. St., Miss
Kate Wells read a carefully prepared paper
on “Sir Francis Bacon,” treating of his
life, reviewing his more important works
and quoting extensively from his essays.
An interesting paper on “Sir Walter Scott
Raleigh” by Mrs. F. Marian Dinwoodey
was read by Mrs Blanche P. Lee. There
was a very good attendance of the members
and the afternoon was a very pleasant one,
the topics being very interesting. The
next meeting of the club will be on Feb. 21
at the Ladies Literary club house where the
Cleofan expects to meet regularly hereafter.
	MRS. ISABEL WING LAKE and Dr. Caro-
lyn Giesel of Chicago, are here in the inter-
est of the mission work; they are working
in the department of Social Purity of the
National Woman’s Christian Temperance
Union and do effective work by the way as
they journey westward They are both
women of education, refinement and of large
experience in the field of humanity, earnest
and conscientious and are doing their work
methodically and as practically as it is pos-
sible to do this sort of reform work. They
have been in Denver and other parts of
Colorado recently ascertaining facts and
looking into the condition of the public
morals of the cities and large towns. For
the past week they have been in Provo
lecturing and have aroused considerable en-
thusiasm on the question of temperance,
purity and cigarrette smoking. Thursday
they visited the chief of police here and en-
quired into conditions in this city and con-
cerning laws and ordinances upon the
statute books. They will probably remain
here some time and hold a series of meet-
ings open to the public.


LADY HENRY SOMERSET has resigned
the presidency of the British Women’s Tem-
perance Association, as her health is too
much impaired for her to perform the
duties.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
POLYNESIA

BY EMMA JENSON.
	THE opportunities of obtaining a liveli-
hood in native style on Samoa are very
good. It requires next to no effort at all
to obtain the necessary food. Taro or kalo
grows with but very little help in the shape
of cultivation and this is the staple article of
food on the group. Breadfruit is picked
from the trees as it ripens for several months
during the year, and cocoanut is always to
be had. Its flesh is used by the natives in
the preparation of many of their “rare
dishes.” When the breadfruit is out of
season and the people have neglected to
plant taro they are sometimes compelled to
subsist for months together on bananas. At
different times in past years when the is-
lands have been visited by hurricanes which
have blown down the breadfruit and cocoa-
nut and often pulled up or blown down the
trees themselves, the people have been re-
duced to a point of starvation until they
could plant and reap bananas, or until the
next crop of breadfruit would ripen. The
group of Manua are an exception to this,
here the people always keep a year’s supply
on hand and by this precaution have al-
ways escaped famine.
	Neither fermented nor distilled liquors 
were used by the Pacific Islanders before
the appearance of the whites on their shores
but they drank an infusion of the roots of
the awa plant, and that is still the favorite
drink on Samoa. The awa root is first
chewed by a certain class of young maidens,
pure virgins, of which there are one or
more in each village, after which the masti-
cated morsels are placed in a wooden bowl
and water poured upon them. The infusion
is then strained through a mesh of the awa
(cyperus) fibers and is then ready for drink-
ing. Its effects are narcotic and stupifying
and effects the legs more particularly, for
after the natives have drunk their fill of awa
they simply fall over from their seats on the 
mats on which they have been sitting while
drinking, and sleep out the effects of the
drug, until which it would be impossible
for them even to stand up for a moment.
	Speaking of the chewing of the awa root
by the Samoa woman it may be mentioned
that they are able to put their mouths to
sundry other kinds of peculiar usage. Thus
the Samoa mother always feeds her baby
from her own mouth to that of her child.
When she has to fill a lamp with coal oil
she generally fills her mouth with the oil
and then emits it into the vessel; she fills a
bottle in the same way. If a feminine
quarrel is going on the almost perfect teeth
with which nearly every native is blessed
are brought into terrible requisition, and
when a woman once buries her teeth in the
flesh of her opponent she is like the terrier,
loth to let go her grip until the enemy is
partly reduced to sausage meat. If a wo-
man in Samoa finds her husband untrue to
her she does not seek revenge on him par-
ticularly, but on his victim, whose nose the
wronged wife bites off if she can get the
opportunity; consequently noseless women
are frequently met with in Samoa.
	For a cheap and easy living Tonga per-
haps stands ahead of any group of islands in
the Pacific. The inhabitants there could
subsist for months on what nature herself
provides for them, without any exertion on
their part except to pick the fruit and eat.
And this naturally makes the natives of the

[Column 2]
Tonga Islands the most independent people
imaginable. That this has a tendency to
make them lazy and indolent is but natural.
The average Tongan is not supposed to
work more than about one day in a week.
	The absence of running streams or rivers
is one of the characteristics of the Friendly
Islands. There are only two very insig-
nificant exceptions throughout the 
whole group. Those occur at Vavan and
Ena. For soft water the inhabitants de-
pend entirely upon what is collected from
the clouds, either in tanks or clay pits called
by the natives lebas. The rainy months
are December, January and February. The
average temperature during the entire year
is 76, Fahrenheit. During the hot months
from December to March the thermometer
frequently ranges at 90 and even 96 in the
shade. The islands are subject to hurri-
canes which seem to recur with periodical
regularity and always in the rainy season
from December to March. “The full force
of the cyclone falls upon one or other of
the three groups, at intervals of about seven
years,” writes the Rev. Thomas West.
“The hurricane gives but few indications of
its approach. The wind rises suddenly, ac-
companied by heavy rain and its duration,
strength and progress in any given locality
depends upon its being nearer to, or more
remote from the center of the wind circle.
No tongue or pen can possibly convey an
adequate idea of these visitations. Heaven
and earth appear to be on the move; and
as for the sea, the grandeur is altogether in-
describable. The rush of the irresistable
tempest; the cracking and fall of trees on all
sides; branches hurled through the air;
cocoanuts torn from the trees and flung in
all directions with the velocity of a cannon
ball; a deluge of rain, unusual darkness and
the crash of falling houses; all of these at-
tendants upon a hurricane make up one of
the most dismal and terrific pictures in
natural phenomena. The destruction of
dwelling houses and other buildings usually
attendant upon these visitations must, how-
ever, be attributed not merely to the force
of the wind, but also in a great measure to
the torrents of rain. The fact is the heavy
rain soon saps the foundation of the large
posts upon which the security of the build-
ing depends. Gradually the wind sways
the superstructure to and fro, and at
every gust opens and widens the earth
around the sockets of the posts, until the
entire fabric loses its equilibrium and
coming down with a crash, all its posts and
beams however tough and thick are snapped
like so many carrots.” During a hurricane
in Vavan many years ago thirty-four out of
thirty-nine Wesleyan chapels were blown
down, though these buildings were the very
best and strongest constructed by the peo-
ple. All the islands are subject to earth-
quakes which are both frequent and violent.
	Speaking about rain storms in the tropics
my husband relates an experience he had in
Samoa. While crossing a lava bed about
twelve miles in extent together with a
traveling companion, a regular tropical rain
storm came upon them; and such a storm
conveys the sense of “pouring” more than
raining to the average American. Seeing
the storm approach my husband in speak-
ing to his companion expressed the regret
that they had taken no overcoats along.
“Overcoats,” responded his companion,
“just look at me, and if you like you can
follow my example.” To his surprise his
companion immediately undressed himself

[Column 3]
and put his clothing in his little hand satch-
el. My husband hesitated but finally did
likewise, and ihe result was that when the
storm abated they both had dry clothes to
put on.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Sanpete Stake Relief
Society conference held at Manti, Dec. 18,
1897. Opened by singing “Lord we come
before Thee now.” Prayer by L. J. Nuttall.
Singing “Where the voice of friendship’s,
heard.”
	President M. A. Hyde spoke of the
signs of the times and the gathering of the
Jews; warned the mothers to have a watch
care over their children.
	The different Societies were represented
as follows: Gunnison, Pres. Helena Mad-
sen; Fountain Green, Sec. Christina Guy-
man; Fairview, Counselor Caroline Peter-
son; Fayette, Pres. Eliza Bartholomew;
Mt. Pleasant, by letter; Ephraim North
ward, Pres. Benedicta Hansen; Manti
North ward, Pres. R. Wareham; Manti
South ward, Pres. Esther Anderson; Moro-
ni, Pres. Annie Hardy; Mayfield, Pres.
Matilda Olsen; Milburn, Sec. Nelly Gra-
ham.
	President M. A. Hyde said if the sisters
would have faith and would arise and speak
and bear testimony, the Lord would bless
them and give them a testimony. Said
there were many things that would come to
try us, but if we have a testimony we will
overcome them.
	Bishop Jensen was pleased to see that the
sisters were interested in the poor of the
ward. Counselor A. L. Cox made a few
closing remarks. Singing “Now let us re-
joice.” Benediction by Brother Aaron
Hardy.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing “Guide
us O Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by
J. B. Maiben. Singing “We thank Thee O
God for a prophet.” Reading and adop-
tion of the previous minutes. The remain-
ing reports were given: Spring City,
Counselor Nancy Acord; Sterling, Elizabeth
Thompson; Butler Field, Counselor Martha
Sorenson
	Brother L. J. Nuttall spoke of the small
percentage of sisters attending the meeting;
thought the sisters were not doing them-
selves justice. Said it was not only for the
poor, but for the saving of souls. He
looked upon the Society as a school and
we cannot be saved in our ignorance. Gave
instructions to the secretaries and said he
looked upon the wheat question as one of
the most important things in the Society;
it came from the highest authority. He
said if the Saints do all they can to avert
the famine the Lord will avert their calami-
ties from their door. Said are we becoming
mixed up with the world or are we prepar-
ing to save our own souls and help others
to save theirs? Asked the peace and bless-
ing of the Lord to be with us.
	President M. A. Hyde gave the sisters a
mother’s blessing; she then spoke in
tongues and Sister Elizabeth Casto inter-
preted.
	Brother J. D. T. McAllister endorsed and
testified to the truthfulness of the remarks
that had been made and encouraged the
taking of notes. Said to follow those who
were to lead and it would be well with us.
Brother J. B. Maiben hoped we might be


[Column 1]
in the path of progress and that we might
be better one year than another, as we are
in the school of Christ.
	Brother L. J. Nuttall said there is every-
thing in our Society that is necessary for
the advancement or good of the sisters-
He said if we find anything good and truth.
ful we can unite it with ours.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing Doxology. Benediction by Bishop
Hans Jenson.
SALT LAKE STAKE,
	MINUTES of the quarterly conference of
the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society held  in
the Fourteenth ward assembly hall Dec. 18,
1897, President M. I. Horne presiding with
her counselors A. T. Taylor and C. C. Can-
non. Present on the stand were Elder
Brigham Young of the council of the
Apostles; Elder Angus M. Cannon presi-
dent of the Salt Lake Stake; Sisters Zina
D. H. Young of the general board; B. W.
Smith, J. S. Richards, M. W. Wilcox, E.
J. Stevenson, J. C. Howe and L. D. Alder.
Meeting was opened by singing “Our God
we raise to Thee.” Prayer was offered by
C. C. Cannon. Singing “O awake my
slumbering minstrel.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and accepted. Roll
called, forty-five wards represented.
	President Horne said she felt happy to
see so many together, we should seek first
tha kingdom of God and all other things
would be added. “Blessed are ye when ye
seek after righteousness.” Said the adver-
sary was seeking after the Latter-day Saints
and trying to throw obstacles in the way of
those who were trying to do their duty.
Said to ask our Heavenly Father what our
duties were and do them, pray without
ceasing, take care of our children and try
and help them in the straight and narrow
path. Said, “I see many things in Zion
that make me sad, but Zion will be purified
and the Lord is willing to deliver us from
sin.” Said the Gospel was so plain and
beautiful it should stimulate us to do good
and lift up all who come under its influence.
“We are blest of all women, let us not
get weary of well doing.” Spoke on the
Church works being read in the Society,
said they were good food for any Latter-
day Saint. All kinds of clubs were being
organized, why cannot we reform in our
Society and call on those who do not attend?
Prayed the Lord to bless us in our confer-
ence and hoped we would all be fed with
the bread of life.
	Sister B. W. Smith asked for the faith
and prayers of the sisters, was pleased with
the reports. Said her time was taken up
in the Temple, it was a great work and
President Young had said he would like to
see twenty temples built, some in Mexico
and Arizona, for the Savior would not come
while there was so much wickedness on the
earth. Prayed for the Lord to bless the sis
ters in their labors.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde felt her weakness
and asked for the prayers of the sisters. She
felt that the presidents were interested in
their work, and that the Lord blessed His
daughters. The Prophet Joseph had an in-
terest and care over the women when he
appointed his wife Emma president of the
Society. Our Society should be education-
al, advised reading and speaking in the
Society and said we have everything in our
organization to elevate women.
	Counselor C. C. Cannon rejoiced in meet-
ing with the Society, said it had been edu-

[Column 2]
cational to her and she had learned many
things that had been of benefit to her at
home and in the Society. She spoke on the
word of wisdom and the blessings promised
to those who observed its laws, and said we
should teach the young people the evil
effects of not observing it.
	Elder Brigham Young of the Council of
the Apostles, said he hoped he was not in-
truding, had not given the workings of the
Society his study but felt it was an im-
portant factor in the Church, and that the
sisters wielded an influence, the mother’s
mind should be a fountain of knowledge,
felt a great responsibility resting upon the
mothers and sisters in the Church in trying
to purify society of its many evils. Said
the sisters were as staunch and faithful as
any of the brethren. The onslaught was
on the youth of Zion and what is so power-
ful as the Relief Society in staying the
wickedness that is among us? The sisters
are prompted by the spirit of the Lord and
can do a great deal of good in saving the
people. There is more virtue among the
sisters, the brethren have the world, the
flesh and the devil to overcome. He had
met with some of the organizations in his
travels and they were doing a good work.
Gave an interesting account of his travels
in the south.
	President Angus M. Cannon said he
could say amen to everything Brother
Young had said. We did not want our
own will but the will of the Lord. Said he
enjoyed the good spirit tnat attended these
meetings and felt to advance the cause of
Zion, blessed the sisters in their good en-
deavors.
	Sister Horne felt thankful to have the
brethren with us this morning. Meeting
adjourned till two o’clock. Singing “Do
what is right.” Benediction Elder Cannon.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Opened by sing-
ing “All hail the glorious day.” Prayer by
Sister M. W. Wilcox. Singing “O say
what is truth.” Reports were given of some
of the city wards, all were in good condi-
tion.
	Sister Zina Young said it was joy for her
to meet with the sisters. She had recently
traveled six hundred miles, her daughter
Zina Card sent her love to all the sisters.
Joseph Smith the prophet had turned the
key for women, and she felt the same spirit
today as she had then. Said how humble
we should be and put aside all pride and
selfishness. She felt the power of the Lord
was among the sisters; asked the Lord to
perfect us and bring us into His presence.
	Sister Horne spoke on storing wheat and
said she had urged the sisters when wheat
was cheap to buy it, now it was going up.
There was room in the 14th ward granary
for a thousand bushels of wheat to be stored.
The wheat should be under the sisters’
jurisdiction and be purchased by the sisters.
Said to lay aside selfishness and build up
the kingdom of God.
	Sister J. S. Richards of Ogden, said this
house was like coming to an old home;
here her children bad been blessed and
those of her loved ones who had passed
away their funerals had been held here, and
she felt the hall had a sacred place in her
memory. Said to teach our children to
honor and respect the memory of great men
and women. She felt the counsel of Sister
Horne about the wheat was timely, the
fever for parting with the wheat in her part
of the country was great, but she had ad-
vised them to keep it, wheat held a precious

[Column 3]
place in her heart. Said she wanted to do
good if only in little things and spoke on
visiting and comforting the sick. Said to
have charity for each others weaknesses and
do good to those who despitefully use you.
Asked the Lord to help us to do His will.
	Sister Horne hoped the sisters of the
Society would remember and make happy
the poor during the holidays, and begin
1898 anew in good works. Gave notice to
the secretaries to have their reports in by
February, and meeting adjourned for three
months. Singing “When shall we all meet
again.” Benediction by Dr. E. Barney.
		MARGARET Y. TAYLOR, Sec.
EAST MILL CREEK.
	Minutes of the Primary conference held
Oct. 30, 1897, President E. E. Fisher pre-
siding. Singing “Our Father in heaven.”
Prayer by Counselor F. M. Neff. Singing
“Oh come children come.” Roll was called
and the minutes of the last conference were
read and accepted. The program was car-
ried out as follows:
	Song by Dorcas Debenham and Genie
Neff. The alphabet in rhyme was given
by Hazel and Irene Tagg and Erva Fisher.
Millie Capson read a revelation given to
Joseph Smith in Portage Co. Ohio. Chloe
Young, Lena Ranck and Pauline Fisher
sang “The Primary Throng.” Questions
and Answers on the restoration of the Gos-
pel were given by Junius Fisher, Laurence
Fisher, Joseph Oliver, Edgar Debenham
and Leon Eldredge. A dialogue was ren-
dered by Elaine Neff and Eveline Fisher.
The Articles of Faith were given by Julia
Woodell. A recitation was given by Millie
King. Questions and Answers on the
“Church” were given by Caleb Fisher and
Johnie Oliver, A dialogue was given by
Annie and Phillis King. Recitations were
given by Mary Fisher and Forest Fagg.
	Sister Morris then spoke a few moments.
She said she was pleased to meet with us
and sang a motion song with the children.
Gave a short history of Joseph Smith and
related some very interesting incidents con-
nected with his early life.
	Sister Howe spoke to us a short time.
Said she was very much pleased to meet
with us and pleased with our program. She
felt that the children responded with inspir-
ation and faith, and told how the Laman-
ites came to be cursed. Said we were a
blessed people and that we should appreci-
ate our great blessings. Advised all to
pray without ceasing, and related an inci-
dent of a little boy who was healed through
faith. Spoke of obedience, said it was the
first law of heaven, and told the children to
love one another and to pray for each other,
to pray for her and to remember her. Pray-
ed God to bless us all.
	Irene Fisher was then voted in secretary
of East Mill Creek. Primary conference was
then adjourned for one year. Singing
“Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
Benediction by Counselor Capson.
					E. E. FISHER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN 1873 Ann Arbor (Mich.) district con-
ference of the M. E. Church gave Mrs.
Frances D. York a local preacher’s license,
the first given to a woman in the State of
Michigan.
	THE Mayflower pamphlet issued by the
New York Mail and Express price fifty
cents, contains personal history and gen-
eological records of many prominent fami-
lies.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS the Great and Supreme Ruler of the
universe has in His infinite wisdom removed from
us one of our worthy and esteemed fellow labor-
ers, Emma Brown, and
	WHEREAS, The long and intimate relation held
with her in the faithful discharge of her duties in
this Relief Society makes it eminently befitting 
that we record our appreciation of her. There-
fore be it
	RESOLVED, That the willing and faithful aid
that she exercised in our organization by service,
contribution and counsel will be held in grateful
remembrance.
	RESOLVED, That the sudden removal of such a
life from our midst leaves a vacancy and a shadow
that will be deeply realized by all the members
and friends of this organization, and her service,
contribution and counsel will be held in grateful
remembrance.
	RESOLVED, That with deep sympathy with the
bereaved relatives of the deceased we express
our hope that even so great a loss to us all may
be over-ruled for good by Him Who doeth all
things well.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these res[-]lutions be
placed upon the records of this organization, a
copy published in the local paper and in the “Wo-
man’s Exponent.”
				MELISSA MURDOCK, Pres.
				ANNIE WRIGHT, Sec.
CHRISTINA GRAEME MCINTYRE.
	Sister Christina Graeme McIntyre, daughter of
James and Mary Brady Graeme, died Nov. 28,
1897, at the residence of her daughter, Sister
Jennette Kelley, American Fork, Utah, where she
had gone on a visit. Her home was in Mi[-]l
Creek ward, Salt Lake county. She was born in
Oct. 1813 at Craigh Lee Wood, Renfesshire Scot-
land. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1843 and emigrated
to Utah in 1863. She was the mother of nine
children and had forty-two grandchildren and
thirty-nine great grandc[-]ildren. Some of this
large posterity have gone before to the spirit
world.
	Sister Christina passed through many trying
scenes in an early day for the Gospel she had em-
braced, but she was ever firm and true, living her
religion for the consolation it gave her. She had
been very handsome in her youth and she retain-
ed her good looks with a grace and dignity that
rested we[-]l upon her in her declining years.
	She was not prominent in society but her home
qualities endeared her to her children, re[-]atives
and friends. The principles of the Gospel was
her constant theme. She was a firm believer in
gifts and blessings being conferred on those who
seek earnestly for them. She was a faithful mem-
ber of the Relief Society as long as she was able
to attend, and many of the faithful testimonies she
bore are recorded in the Society’s record books.
She will be held in faithfu[-] remembrance by those
who are left to continue the work.
	She was tenderly cared for by her daughter and
all was done for her that love and affection could
do. Being intimately acquainted with her daugh
ter, Sister Mary McAllister, we can speak of her
untiring devotion to her mother.
	The remains were brought to her granddaugh
ter’s, Sister Mary M. Williams, who resides in
Mill Creek ward, where the funeral services were
held. Many loving friends assembled to pay their
last respects to one with whom they loved to as-
sociate in the past. Brother Jo[-]eph E. Taylor of
the Stake presidency, Elder John Henry Smith of
Salt Lake City, the Bishopric of the ward and
some of the local brethren each spoke of the 
goodness and faithfulness of our dear departed
sister and gave words of comfort and encourage-
ment to those present. 
	After the close of the services the cortege form
ed which conveyed the loved one to the city
cemetrey where she was laid to rest in peace.
				ELIZABETH HILL, Pres.
				FRANCES H. HANSON, Sec.
	Mill Creek Ward Relief Society.
AGNES HAMILTON.
	Agnes Hamilton, daughter of John and Elizabeth
Hamtilon was born in Shelburn, Nova Scotia, Sep.
20, 1818; moved from there to Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania where she married Richard Curfew in
August 1847; she died at the reside[-]ce of her son,
James Curfew in Lower Valley, Beaver Co. Utah,
Oct. 26, 1897. The remains were brought to
Beaver City for burial and funeral services were

[Column 2]
held in the Latter-day Saints meeting house Oct,
28, comforting and consoling remarks being offer-
ed by Elder William Fotheringham, President C.
D. White and Bishop George Mumford, after
which they were followed to their last resting
place in the city cemetery by a large cortege of
relatives and friends.
	Sister Hamilton was the mother of six children,
three sons and three daughters, and had thirty-
two grandchildren. A son and a daughter and
ten grandchildren preceded her to the spirit world.
	She embraced the Gospel in her native town,
emigrated from Philadelphia to Utah and s[-]ttled
in Beaver in 1861. She became a member of the
Relief Society when it was first organized in the
latter place. She was a teacher for a number of
years and was ever ready and willing to assist in
any and every cal[-]; and altho’ she had re[-]ided
the last few years of her life with her children in
various places, she frequently visited her daughter
who still resided here, but was called away by
the hand of death five months previous to her
mother’s demise. In all of her visits she was
gladly welcomed by her sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety where she had labored so faithfully, her
name being always retained on the roll. She
passed through trying circumstances but never
complained that her lot was hard. When her
husband was called to part with a plural wife who
left an infant a few days old she took the little
babe and cared for it as her own, and that child,
now a young man, feels her loss as an own
mother.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father in His alwise
profidence has seen fit to take from our midst by
the hand of death our beloved sister and co-
laborer, Sister Agnes Hamilton, be it
	RESOLVED, That we the members of the Beaver
Relief Society extend our sympathy to the be-
reaved children and grandchildren in this sad
hour of trial and bereavement.
	RESOLVED, That we strive to emulate her many
noble deeds and cherish in our hears that love
for her which she so truly won.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, a copy be placed on
the Society record and one be sent to the “Wo-
man’s Exponent” for publication,
			JANE W. BICKLEY, Pres.
			ALICE M. TANNER, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
EGYPT.

	BEFORE closing the history of Egypt in
the Reapers Club it may prove interesting
to many of us to take a retrospective glance
over the work that has claimed our atten-
tion for so many weeks, with the object of
refreshing our memories on its principal
dates and items of interest.
	We have learned that with the migration
of the sons of Noah from Bactria, Egypt
must have been one of the first countries
settled. There is no knowledge extant of
an earlier civilization and we refer to the
Pearl of Great Price where it is stated
that Egyptus, the daughter of Ham, dis-
covered and settled the country, her eldest
son governing under the title of Pharaoh,
meaning one of royal blood. Then too,
Herodotus the Greek historian, styled the
“Father of History” who wrote 450 B. C.,
was a traveler as well as a writer and
gives us much that came under his observa-
tion. But even in his day there was little
to be learned of the builders of the wonder-
ful temples, palaces and monuments lying
in ruins on every side, silent witnessess of
a magnificent past; and the strange hiero-
glyphics and picture writing chiselled and
drawn on every hand in pride and boast-
fulness that future ages might read and
envy, were as silent as the hand that form-
ed them. He spoke of the manners and
customs of their religious rites and cere-
monies. The early history of the country
is lost in obscurity and we have fabulous 
accounts of its being governed by gods, but
all historians agree that Menes, or Mizriam,

[Column 2]
the son of Ham, founded Memphis about
2,700 B. C., making it the capital of the
country and that it then reached a high
state of civilization.
	The history of the country from the
founding of Memphis until the Persian
invasion which covers a period of a little
more than two thousand years, is divided
into three parts called the Old, Middle and
New Empires. During the first thousand
the pyramids are supposed to have been
built, Abraham came from Caanan, the
shepherd kings, supposed to have been
Arabians, overrun the country, usurped the
throne, established a government and re-
ligion which taught the worship of the true
God. During this time Joseph was made
chief minister and Jacob was given the land
of Goshen. In time the kingdom was di-
vided into many parts and Thebes became
the capital, the city of a hundred gates,
costly palaces, and wonderful works such as
the lake Moeris and the Labarinth abound.
The shepherd kings have been driven out
and a Theban ruler is on the throne, the peo-
ple are united and Egypt for another one
thousand years enjoyed great prosperity,
rising to the height of its glory. Thotmes
III., called the Egyptian Alexander the
Great, erected the magnificent temple
at T—Seti, built the great hall of Karnac.
Rameses II. was a great builder. He it
was who made the lives of the Hebrews
bitter with hard labor. He founded a
library, inscribed the “Dispensary of the
Soul,” and gathered around him many men
of learning, making his time the golden age
of early art and literature. Thus closed
the second thousand years.
	Then began the decline of the Empire. It
was unable to keep the great conquests in
Ovid and other countries, the tributaries
uprose and the country was conquered by
the Ethiopians and the Assyrians, and fin-
ally under Cambyses, the Persian king, be-
came a Persian province, 525 B. C. For
two hundred years the Egyptians struggled
with the Persians for independence, they
often gained it but as often were overcome
again, and for over two hundred years there
has not been a native ruler in the land of
Egypt, thus fulfilling the prophecy of Ezek-
iel that “there shall be no more a prince in
the land of Egypt.” And we look for its
subsequent history with that of its conquer-
ors.
	In 336 B. C. Alexander the Great, king of
Macedonia, conquered the Persians and
marched against Thebes, destroying the
magnificent city, and selling the inhabitants to
the number of thirty thousand into slavery.
He also founded the city of Alexandria
which for many centuries afterwards was
the first commercial cityt of he world. At
his death and the division of his kingdom
among his generals, Ptolemy a half brother,
was given Egypt, and now commenced the
reign of the Ptolemies. There was thirteen
successive rulers of that name, their
government extending over a period of
about three thousand years and ending with
the death of the famous Cleopatra, who
occupying the throne with her brother was
the last of the Ptolemies. During the
reign of the first of these monarchs Egypt
was the center of learning for the world.
Great libraries were founded and science
and literature flourished.
	In 316 B.C. was fought the battle of Ach-
eron in whtch Octavius defeated Anthony
and Cleopatra and Egypt became a Roman
province. Two hundred years later, 668


[Column 1]
the Mohammedans overrun the country
burning the famous library at Alexandria.
In 1217 it was conquered by the Turks,
in 1798 it was invaded by Napoleon, in
1801 the British expelled the French and
the country fell into the hands of the Turks
under whose government it has remained to
the present day.
	We learn of their religion that they be-
lieved in one God, self-creative and all
powerful; that His representatives were
worshiped in the sun and moon, in the form
of animals, cats, dogs and crocodiles and
many others. That they believed in the
immortality of the soul and a final judg-
ment with a heaven hereafter whose degree
of glory would correspond with our work
here. In the catacombs built in the chain
of mountains bordering the Nile are im-
mense tombs; the upper rooms are orna-
mented with pictures and statuary showing
the people in their daily occupation, and
here we gather fragments of their history
proving that they were skilled in agricul-
ture, mechanical arts and domestic work.
Linen found in the tombs at Memphis is
comparable in touch to silk, equaling our
finest cambric. Dyeing and coloring was
well understood. Indeed their secret of
colors in painting has never been equaled.
Time does not fade them, and it is said that
among many ruins the colors are well pre-
served.
	Their literature contains much that is
elevating, showing a high standard of mor-
als. From the Book of the Dead, we quote
the soul’s defense before the God Osisis,
the sun: “I have not been idle; I have not
been intoxicated; I have not told secrets; I
have not told falsehoods; I have not de-
frauded; I have not slandered; I have not
caused tears; I have given food to the hun-
gry, drink to the thirsty, and clothes to
the naked.” The papyrus or reed plant
with parchment, the dried skins of animals,
was prepared in sheets to hold their writ-
ing. The earliest books consisted of pic-
tures similar to those used by our Indians
today. The people were divided into class-
es, the priests being the most learned and
powerful. In disposition they were mild
and social and very religious, their religion
entering into every day life. Dark-skinned,
tall and well proportioned people who were
fond of amusement and great lovers of
flowers.
	Their architecture massive and enduring
has been the wonder of the world. The
Egyptian granite is so hard that it can
scarcely be cut with the best steel made to-
day, yet anciently it was chiselled or cut
several inches deep showing a beautiful
finish. Among the greatest pieces of
architecture are the pyramids, the great
Karnac, Labarinth and lake Moeris. The
great pyramid of Cheops is 480 ft. high and
covers 13 1/2 acres. Prof. Seiss calls it a
great temple built in the land of Egypt to
the Lord, and brings forth many arguments
that are unanswerable in regard to its
wonderful scientific and astronomical char-
acters, showing that its builders had more
than human knowledge. Unlike the other
ruins found such as palaces, temples, oba-
lisks and monuments, the pyramids are left
without hieroghyphics, or picture writing,
this appears unaccountable. I think it is
impossible for any one to read the works of
Profs. Smith and Seiss and remain uncon-
vinced of its divine origin. At Thebes the
great temple of Karnac connected with that
of Luxor two miles away by an avenue of

[Column 2]
sphinxes it is said words cannot describe.
The great hall is 340 by 170 feet. It con-
tains over one hundred columns 70 feet
high and, quoting from Ferguson’s history
of architecture, “The mass of its central
piers, illuminated by a flood of light from
above and the smaller pillars of its wings
gradually fading into obscurity, are so ar-
ranged and lighted as to convey an idea of
infinite space; while the beauty and mas-
siveness of its forms and the brilliancy of
their colored decorations, all combine to
stamp this as one of the greatest of man’s
architectual works. The Labarinth at
Memphis was an immense temple palace of
three thousand rooms with beautiful
courts and colonades, built of white stone
finely finished and covered with carvings.
	Egypt today pays tribute to the Sultan of
Turkey, but has an hereditary governor
who is called the Khedive. It is the most
advanced and progressive of any of the
countries of Africa, having government
schools and railroads. The population is
very mixed consisting of Arabs, Copts des-
cended from the ancient Egyptians, Moham-
medans, Turks, Negroes and slaves. The
majority of the people are ignorant and
superstitious.
	The discoveries being made by the
Egyptologists of today are constantly un-
folding to us the history of its ancient peo-
ple. Prof. Petrio, the greatest of modern
workers, has recently made excavations
near Thebes which he says will place the
civilization one thousand years earlier than
has been recorded, and making it antedelu-
vian time. Since the finding of the Ros-
setta stone by one of Napoleon’s survey-
ors and its interpretation by the eminent
French scholar Champolleon, a key has
been given to the hieroglyphic cyphers,
clearing many dark pages of Egyptian his-
tory.
					LOUIDE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SONG.*

[Lovingly dedicated to the memory of Clara Leon-
ard who departed this life August 15, 1897.]

A MESSENGER came with the summons,
	He led the dear one by the hand,
Safely over the dark rolling river,
	Safely on to a beautiful land.

CHORUS.
Where the sweet angels tenderly whispered
	Welcome home, to a haven of rest,
Welcome home to the beautiful mansions, 
	he home of the pure and the blest.

The great books of Heaven were opened,
	Her record was spotless and white,
They entered the beautiful City
	Of God, clothed in beauty and light. 

CHORUS.
’Neath a bower of sweet-scented flowers,
	With children, the pride of her heart;
They unfolded the lessons of Heaven,
	Each modestly taking a part.

CHORUS.
They crowned her with jewels they gathered
	From the truths which she taught upon earth,
Sang the songs of the blessed Redeemer,
	Rejoiced at her coming and worth. 

CHORUS.
	*Tune: “I Know Not How Soon God May Call
Me.”
						LUCY A. CLARK.


Save Your Money!

	And when you get a do lar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
 
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.
 
		Midwifery Classes.
   DR. ROMANIA B. Pratt com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.
---------------------------
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP'S SCHOOL.
	
	The Winter session of DR. ELLIS
R. SHIPP’S School in Obstetrics and
Nursing will begin October 11th,
1897, at her residence, 75 Center
street, with greatly improved facili-
ties for instruction in this important
study. For full particulars please
address		 ELLIS R. SHIPP.

			R.K. THOMAS
	   
	   Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.

		      SALT LAKE CITY


		      The Leading Retail
 
			   Cash House.

			  R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL. 26		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15 & MARCH 1, 1898.	NOS. 18 & 19.


CONTENTS:
	Frances E Willard. Washington Convention.
The Woman’s Signal. U W. P. C.—M. A. J.
Lambert. Appreciation—Daniel Tyler. Ann
Dillworth Bringhurst. The Cleofan—Clara T.
Felt. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—Zina H.
Bull. In Memoriam. R. S Reports. Some of
the Sects of the First Century—F. H. L Address.
	EDITORIAL:—The Present Indications Eighty
Years or More. Social and Delightful. An In-
teresting Party. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—My Silent Prayer—N. Washington’s
Birthday—Hezekiah Butterworth. Thoughts of
the New Year—Nellie. Expectancy—Hyacinth


For the Exponent.
MY SILENT SONG

I OFTEN sing a silent song,
	A song no mortal sense hath heard,
And yet its tones my soul can thrill,—
	Far more than music it hath stirred!
When sense of blessing on me falls
And memory oft the past recalls.
If undeserved, I yet must sing,
	My voiceless song, my hymn of praise;
I know its sweet and mellow ring,
	In sleepless nights, and happier days!
When e'er its inspiration swells,
The low bowed head, the tear-drop tells!
I long oft-times its notes to hear,
	When discontent its shadow flings;
Then time to think, to pray sincere,
	Brings back my song whose echo rings;
Then darkness flees and clouds sweep by,
I bask beneath a sun-kissed sky!
This precious song o’er moods and ills
	Glad victory gives to weary souls;
A foretaste ’tis of bliss which thri[-]ls,
	Past golden gates and jasper walls;
All things together work for good,
If Father’s love is understood!
’Tis proved beyond, if unknown here,
	Or seen by faith, a glimpse at best
My silent song, my heart shall cheer,
	While here I wait my promised rest!
To sing aloud, that same glad song
’Mid His redeemed, triumphant throng!
							N.


WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY.

ARISE—tis the day of our Washington’s glory,
	The garlands uplift for our liberties won;
Forever let Time tell the patriot’s story,
	Whose sword swept for Freedom the fields of
		the sun.
			Not with gold nor with gems,
			But with evergreens vernal,
And the banners of stars that the continent span, 
Crown, crown we the chief of the heroes eternal,
Who lifted his sword for the birthright of man!
	He gave us a nation; to make it immortal,
	He laid down for Freedom the sword that he
		drew,
And his faith leads us on through the uplifting
		portal
	Of the glories of peace and our destines new. 
			Not with gold, nor with gems,
			But with evergreens vernal,
And the flags that the nations of liberty span,
Crown, crown him the chief of the heroes eternal 
Who laid down his sword for the birthright of
	man.


Lead, Face of the Future, serene in thy beauty,
	’Till o’er the dead heroes the peace star shall
		gleam,
Till Right shall be Might in the counsels of duty,
	And the service of man be life’s glory supreme.
			Not with gold nor with gems,
			But with evergreens vernal,
And the flags that the nations in brotherhood
		span,
Crown, crown him the chief of the heroes eternal,
Whose honor was gained by his service to man!
	O Spirit of Liberty, sweet are thy numbers!
	The winds to thy banners their tributes shall
		bring
While rolls the Potomac where Washington slum-
		bers,
	And his natal day comes with the angels of
		spring.
			We follow thy counsels,
			O hero eternal,
To highest achievements the school leads the van,
And, crowning thy brow with the evergreen ver-
		nal,
We pledge thee our all to the service of man!
			HEZEKIAH BUTTERWORTH.
—Selected.


FRANCES E. WILLARD.
MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD who died
Feb. 19, 1898, was the greatest Temper-
ance leader of the age. She had wonder-
ful power in many directions which eminent-
ly qualified her for the position and with-
al possessed that exquisite tact the French
designate finesse.
Miss Willard has twice visited Salt Lake
and is well known to many of the people of
Utah.
The sketch of her life given here is from
a Chicago paper.
“Miss Willard was born in Churchville,
near Rochester, New York, Sep. 28, 1839.
She was the daughter of Josiah F. and
Mary Thompson Hill Willard, both of New
England stock. Her girlhood was spent in
Churchville. Oberlin, O., and Janesville,
Wis. From Janesville the family moved to
Evanston, which has since been known as
the Willards’ home suburb. Miss Willard
was a graduate of North Western university
and took the degree of A. M. from Syra-
cuse university. She was for four years
professor of natural science at the North-
Western Female college, one year preceptor
at the Genesee, Wesleyan seminary, Lima,
N. Y., two years traveled abroad studying
continental languages and the fine arts; in
1871 became president of the Woman’s col-
lege and professor of aesthetics in North-
Western university; in 1874 corresponding
secretary of the W. C. T. U., in 1877 was
associated with Mr. Moody in evangelistic
work in Boston, in 1878 was president of
the W. C. T. U. in Illinois and editor of
the Chicago Daily Post, and in 1878 was
mad[-]president of the National W. C. T. U.
“In 1887 Miss Willard was elected presi-
dent of the Woman’s Council of the United
States, formed from the confederated soci-
eties of women, and in the same year she


was elected to the general conference 
of the Methodist Episcopal church. In 1889 she 
was chosen to the oecumenical conference of 
the same church by the Rock River con- 
ference, but her name was thrown out by 
the board of control because she was a wo- 
man. She was the originator of the peti- 
tion against the alcohol and opium trade, 
started on a tour around the world, and to 
be presented to all governments. She was 
from the first one of the directors of the Wo- 
man’s Temperance Publishing association 
and also one of the board of directors of the 
National Temperance hospital of the Tem- 
perance temple. 
	“Miss Willard was sometimes called 
“America’s uncrowned queen.” Besides 
the multifarious duties connected with the 
presidency of the world’s and national tem- 
perance organizations, books, magazines, 
articles, tracts and editorials followed in 
quick succession from her busy brain. Even 
during her year and a half of enforced ‘rest’
her vitalized touch continued to be felt in 
every department of the W. C. T. U. work.”


WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	THE thirtieth annual convention of the 
National American W. S. A. opened in the
Columbia Theatre at Washington, D. C.,
on the morning of Monday, Feb. 14. Miss
Anthony occupied the chair. In her intro- 
ductory address she described the first wo-
man’s rights convention at Seneca Falls
fifty years ago. A small old fashioned
round table stood on the stage of the the-
atre, draped with an American flag. Miss
Anthony said:
	“On this table the original declaration of
equal rights was written, at the house of the
McClintocks. The five women who wrote
it were all Quakers except Mrs. Stanton.
They did not dare to sign their names but
published the call anonymously. They
worked around the table and hunted up the
nineteen grievances It is worth noticing
that the demands which raised such a hue
and cry of ridicule fifty years ago are nearly
all conceded today.”
	The roll call showed representatives from
twenty-four State societies.


MISS MARIE CORELLI, who has recently
been obliged to undergo a severe operation,
wishes it to be widely known that the sur-
geon to whose skill she owes her life is a
lady, Bravo! brave and dainty little wo-
man of genius. The nonsensical notion
that women will not trust women in medi-
cine and surgery is abundantly disproved
by the hundreds of operations performed in
the New Hospital for Women, which is of-
ficered entirely by female medical prac-
tioners. But of course no record is kept of
the women who consult lady doctors in pri-
vate practice, and it is a capital advertisement
when it is made known that an eminent
woman has been willing to trust a difficult
operation on herself to a lady surgeon. Mrs.
Scharlieb M. D. was Miss Corelli’s sur-
geon.—Woman’s Signal, London, Eng.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN’S SIGNAL.

(Editorial)
	MRS. RENTOUL ESLER generally writes
so justly and sensibly that I am sorry to
find signed by her pen the following ob-
servations:
	“A woman’s triumph in any practical call-
ing must always depend, in a measure, on
her youth where she plays a public part.
Does she sing? Does she act? Let youth
wane and her chances go with it. Were
positions ecclesiastical and legal open to
her, the result would be the same. Aver-
age abilily, with very good looks, will go
far; great abilities, with a bad appearance,
will in the case of a woman effect little in
the open. It is so human to regard woman
from a spectacular point of view, that age in
her wears some aspect of the ludicrous. An
old woman in the pulpit, on the platform,
in legal wig and gown, would evoke laugh-
ter. It is inevitable.”
			*	*	*
	So far from being inevitable that a wo-
man whose youth has waned shall be re- 
garded as ludicrous, it is happily not at all
true. It is the case that in the abstract the
phrase “an old woman” is used as a term of
contempt, and against this use every wo-
man who respects her sex should wage un-
ceasing war. No one in my presence ever
uses the term “an old woman” as a phrase
of scorn without being remonstrated with;
and when made to perceive what it really is
that they are saying—that age and woman-
hood combined are contemptible—most per-
sons admit that the phrase is not to be
justified, and will generally promise not to
use it again in that sense; but here is Mrs.
Esler actually endeavoring to justify an at-
tempt to regard as despicable the union of
these two honorable facts, and declaring on
her own account that age when combined
with womanhood is inevitably ludicrous!
That such an idea should exist so long as
women are regarded from the sexual point
of view is natural—an old woman from the
harem point of view is worse than useless.
But we European women have minds and
souls; and amongst us so much admirable
work is done by women who have entirely
passed that phase of life, that to continue
to use the phrases about age in women be-
longing to less enlightened times and cus- 
toms is a mistake.
			*	*	*
	Besides, the assertion that Mrs. Esler
commits herself to is nothing less than
practically absolutely untrue. Aged wo-
men do not “inevitably” receive ridicule.
There is a beauty that goes with youth, but
there is a beauty that comes with age, and
if both men and women too seldom succeed
in attaining the latter beauty, it is because 
in either case the life has been narrow and
cramped, or the expression has been dis-
figured by the continued indulgence of evil
tempers or mean thoughts. Age in itself
is venerable, and every right-minded per-
son feels it to be so. When it implies long
experience in wisdom and long practice in
goodness it will never be contemptible nor
will it look so. Many and many a woman
who in her youth had no pretensions to
girlish beauty becomes a handsome old lady
by virtue either of the continued use of her
intellect, or by her motherly cares or devel-
opment that they have given both to her
judgment and her affection.
			*	*	*

[Column 2]
To take a very illustrious example. 
Queen Victoria has no beauty of the com-
mon kind, but if Mrs. Esler has ever seen
Her Majesty (as I have done many times)
she must know that nothing can be farther
from the truth than describing the public
appearances of this aged woman as "ludi-
crous.” The remarkable dignity, the ele-
vated grace that are diffused around the per-
son of the Queen—old, short, stout, plain
though she be—are the most striking testi-
mony to the power of a life spent in a noble
way to give beauty of its own kind, and an
aspect than which nothing can be less ludi-
crous, to an old woman. The only person
whom I have ever asked to speak on a Wo-
man Suffrage platform solely on the ground
of her looks was Mrs. Margaret Bright
Lucas, who must have been well on to-
wards sixty when I employed this argument
as a reason why she should speak at suf-
frage meetings. Mrs. Lucas declared that
she was no speaker, and I said to her “That
does not matter; just stand up a little while
and let them look at you,” for I saw that
the beauty of high thoughts in her mind
through many years of life had so stamped
her face and her whole person with dignity
and sweetness that her mere presence would
have value in pleading such a cause. Again,
we have been in my home for the last week
or two in continual admiration of the beauti-
ful countenance of Miss Frances Power
Cobb at the age of seventy, as shown in a
photograph which she has kindly given to
my daughter. The first woman whom I
(when I was perhaps fourteen) ever heard
speak on a public platform was the late
Clara Lucas Balfour, who was probably
then between sixty and seventy, and who
looked the embodiment of wisdom and dig-
nity as she sat beside a table and quietly in-
terested an audience of several hundreds in
a very large hall for over an hour At the
Woman’s Congress at Chicago, every hall
was crammed with eager crowds when it
was announced that Susan B. Anthony
aged seventy-one, was going to speak.
Elizabeth Fry was over fifty when she was
called to her chief work—did she inevitably
excite redicule? Was “the Mother of the
Salvation Army” laughable in the pulpit?
Nay but age added power and honor to
each! It is by no means true then that
age in a woman, even when seen on the
platform itself, evokes laughter, or that it
is inevitably ludicrous for a woman to have
passed her youth; to say this kind of thing
ought to have been left to men who write
sporting papers for Sunday issue.
 			*	*	*
	Statements of this kind take on a sort of
personal interest when one has just had (as
I have) a forty-third birthday. One does
not know exactly what is the age at which
Mrs. Esler counts the inevitably ludicrous
age to set in. but assuredly I have no ex-
pectations or intentions of either forsaking
the platform or being ridiculous at present!
The professions that she chooses to name
are the two in which youth is particularly
precious—on the stage the actress loses
position as soon as she gets too old to repre-
sent youthful heroines, since youth is the
period of the ordinary stage romance; and
on the concert platform, the voice that is
all-important loses something, after a time,
by diminished freshness; yet is it not the
case that Ellen Terry and Adelina Patti,
both women over fifty, are even there the
most popular, the most highly paid and fol-
lowed of their class of workers? Nor do

[Column 3]
the far older women of the stage itself who
submit to take parts suitable to them be-
come ludicrous—how charming, for in-
stance, was Mrs. Sterling when she was
nearer seventy than sixty! No, no! Age
is not inevitably ludicrous in a woman!
			*	*	*
	This is not to deny the power of youth,
however. Like Ibsen’s hero in “The
Master Builder,” middle-aged people must
always respectfully and half fearfully “hear
the younger generation knocking at the
door.” We must all recognize the im-
portance of the adhesion to any work of
those whose powers are fresh and unworn,
and whose share of life will probably
stretch through the coming years long after
the grass grows green over the graves
where the holders of the place and power of
today will be silent and impotent for fur-
ther service. There is a charm in the
springtime of life that we all feel and own.
Especially is this true of public work.
Tenderly do we regard the young people
who seem ready to lend their growing
strength to the causes and efforts that we
have carried on for long years—to catch up
the banner that we feel must drop from our
wearied grasp, and who do not fear to at
once take their course, though it be up the
Hill Difficulty, to our cherished goal, not-
withstanding the attractions of the flowery
meads in which they might linger and play
a little longer. Prophetic hope, sympathy
for toil and danger that we know too well
and see them brightly and unconsciously
facing, joy in the beauty of their unworn
freshness—all this we their elders must feel.
As Mrs. Browning says—

		Great men who foreknew
Their heirs in art, for art’s sake have been glad,
And bent their old white heads as though un-
	crowned,
Fanatic of their pure ideals still,
Rather than of their laurels which were gained
With some less stalwart effort of the will.
			*	*	*
	So, dear girls, beautiful in your youthful
bloom, who care for any work or who are
laboring to obtain excellence and do credit
to your own and your sex’s abilities in any
direction, your effort is gladly appreciated,
without its being admitted that your grand-
mothers are “necessarily ludicrous,” or that
you will become so as soon as your youth is
past. True it is that in many occupations
young people have the preference in ob-
taining employment; they are stronger in
body, more tractable in mind, and likely to
become more and more useful for years on-
ward, instead of pretty soon wearing out
and growing a burden on an employer’s
kindness and consideration. But this pain-
ful fact applies to men as well as to women
and has nothing to do with the loss of at-
tractiveness in looks, nor does it generally
occur in the case of intellectual or highly
skilled employments, but only in those in
which experience gives little of no increase
of capacity. For instance, in our own do-
mestic experience, few of us would care to
engage a new housemaid over forty, be-
cause of the thoughts above mentioned; but
we should not hesitate to take a well recom-
mended cook of that age and a good deal
more, because her probably increased ex-
perience would counter-balance any such
disadvantages. The moral is for young peo-
ple to try to select and rise in occupations
in which brains and experience are more
valuable than looks and mere smartness of
muscular movement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THOU HTS ON THE OLD AND NEW YEAR
______________________________________
THE old year has departed its freight of joy and
		pain,
Its changes and its chances will ne’er return again
In the sepulchre of Time 'til laid with other
	years,
And in memory alone remains its smiles and
	tears.
There is no resurrection of years once past and
	gone,
No recalling wasted hours, they too, for aye have
	flown,
Ours only is the present in which to do and dare,
The future none can tell and perchance we may
 	not share.
Then grasp the precious present, use nobly each
today, 
Short retrospect is wisdom, too much is vain de-
	lay,
While we bewail our errors, our ignorance and
	sin,
The brave are in the battle and many a conflict
	win.
Then sit not idly dreaming, be a worker in the
	strife,
Fill up each day with all that tends to make an
	ideal life,
Then, if permitted to remain to greet another
	year,
We’ll bid Farewell to ’98 without regret or tear.
							NELLIE.


EXPECTANCY

LET not the arms of expectancy,
Fold me in embraces of ecstacy,
That proves to be on’y a fantasy—
That fills my heart with a vacancy,
'T would long in its woeful exigency,
To soar to a clime of complacency,
And there heal the heartfelt discrepancy,
By love, which completes all deficiency,
And brightens the chain of dependency,
And over all things gains ascen[-]ency.
Think not there’s a dearth of pudency,
Because of a want of potency.
Bnt trust and believe in my fervency,
For therein rests all my quiescence C.
	HYACINTH.
Feb. 21, 1898.

FAREWELL.
The solemn thought which slumbers in my soul,
Of pain, despair, unhappiness,
Is born of that sad word.
The beams which heretofore have shed their
radiant gleams,
Have sunk to rest;
And in their place a shadowy darkness lurks,
That bids me long for what can never be.
Forgetfulness.
No word responsive to my least desire,
Softens the parting pang;
The oft times sundered thread of hope.
Is riven once again,
Farewell.
	HYACINTH.
Feb. 22, 1898.


A POMPOUS solicitor was one day called
upon at his office by a somewhat younger
member of the profession, who asked his
opinion on a certain point of law. The
elder gentleman drew himself up and said,
“I generally get paid for what I know!”
“Oh very well,”: the other replied taking a
half sovereign from his pocket—“tell me all
you know and give me three and fourpence
change."


U. W. P. C.
THE U. W. P. C. met by appointment
on the evening of Jan. 31, 1898, in the
pleasant parlors of Mrs. Belle Bunnell.
Prayer was offered by Lucy A. Clark. The
roll call was responded to by sentiments
from Goethe. Under unfinished business
to a former motion that each member fur-
nish a cup, saucer, plate and spoon, an
amendment was made that a glass tumbler
be added and that they be taken to the
“Exponent” office before Feb. 28.
	Mrs. Camilla C. Cobb and Mrs. Clarissa
S. Williams were accepted as members of
the club. A letter from Mrs. Lulu Lee
Steele, secretary of the Educational com-
mittee of the U. W. P. C., was read and a
motion was carried that the president of the
club appoint three members as an educa-
tional committee—Dr. Orielle Curtis, Helen
V. Kimball and Hattie Harker were accord
ingly appointed. The by-laws of the club
were read by the secretary and discussed by
the members. The secretary also read a
letter from Mrs. Martha Burgess Jennings
in which was offered the suggestion that
the club join the General Federation of
Clubs; discussion thereon followed after
which a motion was carried to the effect
that the U. W. P. C. join the General
Federation of Clubs. Mrs. I. Cameron
Brown was elected delegate to the General
Federation of Clubs to be held in Denver
the coming June, Rachel Miller was elected
alternate.
	The program opened with a song sweetly
rendered by Mrs. Maggie Bassett. A very
complete paper on Germany was read by
Mrs. Ruth M. Fox. A selection on the
guitar and mandolin was delightfully ren-
dered by Mrs. Belle Bunnell and her son,
Mr. Mark Bunnell. “Notable German
Men” was read by Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan
and "Notable German Women" by Mrs.
Hattie Harker. Mrs. Camilla C.Cobb sang
charmingly in German and Mrs. Belle Bun-
nell recited “The Earl King” in the Ger-
man language.
	The secretary read the programme for
the next meeting to be held at the home of
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 75 Center St. The min-
utes of the meeting were read and with two
corrections accepted. Benediction by Mrs.
E. B. Wells. Delicate German refreshments
were served, a pleasant finale to a delightful
evening.
					M. A. J. LAMBERT, Sec.


APPRECIATION.

Editor Exponent.
	I HAVE had the pleasure of a casual peru-
sal of your book of poems entitled “Mus-
ings and Memories..” and although unsoli-
cited allow me to say in brief, that the com-
mon eulogy that it “fills a long felt want”
but faintly expresses my appreciation of
your musing and ever reflecting, useful
mind. Your dedication though brief is a
volume in itself. That spirit of Elijah, so
to speak, that binds kindred “for all the
years to come,” I fear is too little appreci-
ated by many Latter-day Saints, in fact I
much question whether any of us fully
comprehend the greatness of that eternal
union by adoption to the fountain of our
being; and as to the world, although they
are inspired to look after the records of their
dead, as a rule they know not why.
	Your work is an everyday home compan-


ion adapted to all ages and conditions and
particularly interesting to the young and
hopeful, of all ages of those who in the hour
of trial need comfort to give them strength
to persevere in the right under the most ab-
ject circumstances.
	Speaking personally the first line of the
first poem carried me back and was a re-
minder of many scenes of my childhood
and rambles “in the meadows where the
cowslips spring,’’ in fact those cowslips were
the incentive to my roving through the
green meadows in anticipation of a deli-
cious dish of greens for dinner. 
	But I must leave this subject lest some of
your readers suspect that I am longing for
the “leeks and onions of Egypt” well they
grow down there too and of course I
thought of them and how in my promen-
ades I mistook a young elebone for the
former, and but for a neighbor’s child pass-
ing just as I was stooping to pluck it I
should have eaten the poisonous herb and
not been here to relate the incident nor how
much I think of your very interesting and
instructive, work. It commends itself to all
who love the muses.
	A sixty-five year old Latter-day Saint.
						DANIEL TYLER.
Beaver City, Utah, Feb. 9, 1898.


ANN DILLWORTH BRINGHURST.

Dear Sister Wells:
	IT has been the will of our Heavenly
Father to call home our beloved sister,
Ann Dillworth Bringhurst.
	She was born on Feb. 12, 1812, in Ches-
ter county, Penn., and came to Utah with
John Taylor’s company in 1847; moved to
Springville with her husband, ex-Bishop
William Bringhurst, in 1860, where she
has lived ever since. She was the mother
of seven children, five of whom are still
living.
	Coming to Utah with the pioneers the
deceased endured all the hardships and
privations necessary to the opening of a
new country, and then moving south she
experienced many difficulties in building up
the home in which she spent so many hap-
py days. She was chosen president of the
Relief Society and held the position for
years. She was always ready to assist the
poor and needy, and many are the good
deeds recorded to her.
	Sister Bringhurst left this earthly exis-
tence for a higher sphere at 3 o’clock Tues-
day morning Jan. 25, 1898. By her death
we lose one of our beloved members, but 
we feel to say, she has gone to meet kind
friends on the other side and will await our
coming.
	Relief Society of 2nd ward, Springville.


First friend: “So he married in haste?
Did he repent at leisure?” Second friend:
“No—he repented in haste too!”
	A JUDGE of the Bombay High Council,
who is pompous in manner and never for-
gets that he is a judge, was walking up and
down the platform of a small railway sta-
tion just before taking his seat in the train.
At that moment a perspiring Englishman
rushed onto the platform and said to the
judge, “Is this the Bombay train?” The
judge coldly remarked, “I am not the sta-
tion master.” The other man at once re-
torted, “Then confound you sir, why do
you swagger about as if you were?”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15 & MARCH 1, 1898.


THE PRESENT INDICATIONS.

	THE times are replete with news of crime,
disaster and war cry from various quarters of
the earth, and though here in Utah there is
less of the confusion that seems so apparent
in many places, yet we doubt not Utah will
have more or less that will be momentous,
and that will require wisdom and good
judgment to withstand. Some people are
really of the opinion that there will be war
in the United States, or on its borders, in
which the country will be obliged to parti-
cipate. The condition of Cuba does seem
deplorable and naturally one would think
that this country should send help and re-
lief if not wholly to espouse her cause.
Clara Barton has started for the scene of
the disaster and is well qualified to under-
take the work of relieving the sufferers as far
as human aid and woman’s tender minis-
tration can alleviate pain. Meantime the
United States is sending two naval ships to
the island with provisions for the sufferers.
The supplies were furnished by the New
York Cuban Relief Society.
	The various opinions concerning the
Maine seem to be resolving themselves into
one view which some took from the begin-
ning, that it was accidental, which cer-
tainly is a charitable construction to put
upon a very serious matter.
	The trial and conviction of Emile Zola has
turned the heads of half the people in Paris
—now that he has actually been sentenced
it is to be hoped they will cease their up-
roar and that peace may prevail, at least for
a time.
	But that there will be peace altogether is
too much to expect, for the Scriptures must
be fulfilled and also the prophecies of mod-
ern prophets. It is really refreshing, how-
ever, that as the Spring opens prosperity
heightens for the people who have risked
their lives in the gold regions of Alaska;
but it seems strange to state that thousands
of women are preparing to go to the Klon-
dike district as soon as Spring opens. Far
better would it be to stay at home and fol-
low some domestic employment such as
sericulture which is sure to bring safe re-
turns for labor—than to risk life and limb
for fabulous gold—which is really more
like a fable than a real fact, whereas it is
known that silk in a salable condition is al-
ways marketable. It does not appear
natural that women should be gold hunters
but to raise silk worms and reel silk has
always been remunerative, ever since the
fabric became known.
	It is time now that those who wish to en-
gage in this industry should begin to make
preparations and be ready for a start when
the Spring opens. There are thousands of
mulberry trees in the State and the leaves
might be utilized to good advantage; and
idleness is rampant in the towns and cities.
Even men need not be ashamed of this
employment, it is quite as much in their
line as tailoring and many other things;
but it does require thought and investiga-
tion and now is the time to begin to study
the art of raising silk worms. Several
books have been published by those who
were desirous of encouraging this industry
and are given away. The Utah Silk Com-
mission have some published recently which
can be obtained on application, and there
are a hundred or more in this office which
we have permission to distribute.


[Column 1]
EIGHTY YEARS AND MORE.

	MRS. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON has
published a book of reminiscences of her
long and eventful life under the taking title
of “Eighty Years and More.” Mrs. Stan-
ton has dedicated the book to Susan B.
Anthony, her steadfast friend for half a
century.
	The author’s vivid descriptions of
places and people as well as incidents are
given in a charming style and true to nature
and to facts, told in such a characteristic
way that one is impressed with the matter
because it is so natural as to appeal direct to
the heart of the reader,
	Mrs. Stanton was born at Johnstown, N.
Y., and was the daughter of Daniel Cady,
a distinguished lawyer and judge—and who
was elected to Congress the year of the little
Elizabeth’s birth. In the book she writes of
the fact thus: “Perhaps the excitement of
a political campaign, in which my mother
took the deepest interest, may have had an
influence on my prenatal life and given me
the strong desire that I have always felt to
participate in the rights and duties of
government.”
	Mrs. Stanton’s mother was Margaret
Livingston, the daughter of Colonel James
Livingston who was active in the war of the
Revolution, and was stationed at West
Point when Arnold made the attempt to be-
tray that stronghold into the hands of the
enemy. “In the absence of General Wash-
ington and his superior officer he took the
responsibility of firing into the Vulture, a
suspicious looking British vessel that lay at 
anchor near the opposite bank of the Hud-
son river. It was a fatal shot for Andre the
British spy, with whom Arnold was then
consummating his treason.” The vessel
thus disabled hastened away leaving Andre
with his papers to be captured while Arnold
made his escape through the lines before
his treason was suspected.
	Mrs. Stanton’s chapter on Motherhood is
one of the sweetest in her book, so perfectly
natural that every mother who has had a
similiar experience, (and there are many)
will read it with intense interest and say
“exactly so.” All along the pages are
names familiar to the public—poets, philos-
ophers, heroes, editors, reformers both men
and women. One chapter devoted to
Susan B. Anthony is delightfully full of the
originality so like this beautiful Quaker
spinster. Mrs. Stanton quotes Lord Bacon’s
saying of unmarried men and adds it is
equally applicable to women, and gives this
grand culmination to the thought:

[Column 2]
	“The world has ever had its vestal vir-
gins, its holy women mothers of ideals
rather than men; its Marys, as well as its
Marthas, who, rather than be busy house-
wives, preferred to sit at the feet of divine
wisdom, and ponder the mysteries of the
unknown. All hail to Maria Mitchell,
Harriet Hosamer, Charlotte Cushman, Alice
and Phebe Carey, Louisa Alcott, Dr. Elizabeth
Blackwell, Frances Willard and Clara Bar-
ton! All honor to the noble women who
have devoted earnest lives to the intellectual
and moral needs of mankind!”
	Mrs. Stanton describes graphically her
“First speech before the Legislature,” read-
ing it to her father, his views, his wonder
at her pathetic periods knowing her own,
life had been a happy one, comments of the
newspapers, ridicule of men and women,
frivolous objections, the divine patience re-
quired to reply, and so on. “On one oc-
casion when addressing the legislature some
of the ladies in congratulating me, inquired
in a deprecating tone, ‘What do you do
with your children?’ ‘Ladies,’ I said, ‘it,
takes me no longer to speak than you to
listen; what have you done with your chil- 
dren while you have been sitting here? But
to answer your question I never leave my
children to go to Saratoga, Washington,
Newport, or Europe, or even to come here.
They are at this moment with a faithful
nurse at the Delevan House, and having
completed my mission we shall return home
together.”
	One of Mrs. Stanton’s remarks regarding
American women may strike home to young
women, she says: “When I see so many of
our American women struggling to be
artists, who cannot make a good loaf of
bread or a palatable cup of coffee I think of
what Theodore Parker said when art was a
craze in Boston. ‘The fine arts do not in-
terest me so much as the coarse arts, which
feed, clothe, house and comfort people. I
would rather be a great man like Franklin
than a Michael Angelo—nay, if I had a son
I should rather see him a machanic, like
the late George Stephenson in England’
than a great painter like Rubens who only
copied beauty.”
	Mrs. Stanton in commenting upon her
birthday celebration in New York City at
eighty years did not forget among other
gifts the one from the women of Utah, the
onyx and silver ballot box and the accom-
panying address. There are so many ex-
cellent things in the book that all women
and men too should read, that we feel sure
the volume will have a large sale. The
portraits are very interesting and for the
comfort of elderly people we are happy to
state the type is large and clear. The book
contains 468 pages and eleven portraits. It
is dedicated to Susan B. Anthony. We have
not perused it half enough yet but have
already, though only skimming through its
pages, noticed many charming paragraphs,
and withal its simple, chatty style recom-
mends it most pleasantly without further en-
comuim.


SOCIAL AND DELIGHTFUL.

	MRS. C. F. WILCOX entertained at her
home in this city a rather large party of
ladies (perhaps sixty) in honor of her
mother, Mrs. Elizabeth J. Stevenson, who
on that day reached her sixtieth anniver-
sary. It was refreshing to meet socially so
many who for years had been familiarlly
associated and to converse upon the vari-


ous experiences and incidents which make
the chapters of each one’s life of special
interest to those near and dear by ties of
friendship and sisterhood. Mrs. M. Isa-
bella Horne gave some interesting remin-
iscences of early days and of Joseph the
Prophet. The famous musician, Prof. J.
McLellan, gave on the piano Ave Maria
and an air from the Bohemian Girl, also an
"Inspiration." Prof. Wm. Done also play-
ed some of Beethoven. Camilia C. Cobb sang
in her sweet way the old song "Then you’ll
remember me." Lula gave the poetical
tribute to Mrs. Stevenson given below and
also recited another of her poems entitled
"My Father." Mrs. Minnie J. Snow sang
sweetly in a plaintive fashion "Far Away."
	Mrs. Wilcox read from Mrs.Wells’ poems
"The Dear Old Garden." There were very
dainty refreshments elegantly served and
highly enjoyed, and the hostess gave us
quite a display of old-fashioned capes of
muslin embroidery and other similar arti-
cles of fine needlework.
	Mrs Stevenson was the recipient of pro-
fuse and sincere congratulations and pretty
presents, tokens of affection and love, also
many good wishes and bouquets of violets,
carnations and roses. The writer adds her
congratulations to the many others wishing
her every joy and comfort possible for mor-
tals in this probation and eternal happiness
hereafter when sorrow and pain are no
more and we enter with our dear ones gone
before upon the life immortal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO SISTER ELIZABETH STEVENSON.

ON HER SIXTIETH BIRTHDAY, FEB. 8, 1898.
Sixty years! And still so active;
	Trudging cheerfully about;
Making Gospel Truth attractive,
	By dispelling gloom and doubt.
This, today, we witness here,
In your presence, sister dear.
Exercising faith and meekness,
	Hopeful ever—doubly blest;
Charity for other’s weakness—
	First and greatest, last and best;
In your life all these we find,
Sister well beloved and kind.
Your affectionate friend,
L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


AN INTERESTING PARTY.

	At the elegant residence of Mrs. Priscilla
Jennings on Thursday February 10, there
was a delightful gathering of old friends
and acquaintances. The company was in
cordial sympathy not only in feeling but
upon the topics of the day, and it reminded
the writer very much of social gatherings in
the past at some of the familiar haunts
which Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee in one
of her sweet poems says "Where the old
friends meet." Mrs. Jennings has been
famous for many years for entertaining and
on this last occasion, those who were favor-
ed to be present found her the same digni-
fied, genial hostess as ever. As has been
said previously by an able newspaper man
in the daily papers, the sweet, peaceful spir-
it that prevailed gave the special charm
that all seamed to realize. The presence of
Presidents Woodruff George Q. Cannon
and Lorenzo Snow gave an inspiration to
the party and added greatly to the spiritual
enjoyment.
	It was indeed "A feast of reason
and a flow of soul."


Elder George D. Pyper in his origin-
al charming way sang several songs, "O
Happy Day," "There is Sunshine in my
Soul," "Mona," and "Not Half has ever
been Told," which were tenderly sym-
pathethetic and Mrs. W. W. Riter gave
two ballads, one that went home to the
hearts of all who listened "The Old Oaken
Bucket." Miss Dwyer favored the com-
pany with two or three negro ballads in a
quaint, characteristic fashion, and Brother
Pyper towards the close of the party render-
ed the hymn by Eliza R. Snow, "O My
Father" the guests joining in after the first
verse. President Woodruff spoke a few
minutes congratulating Mrs. Jennings and
blessing her and her household. His words
were full of intense feeling and were as a
warning voice to all Israel to take heed to
counsel and cherish the Gospel as revealed
in the latter days. President George Q.
Cannon followed in a similar strain. All
present must have felt the power and in-
tense spiritual force of the remarks of these
men of God.
	The repast was delicate and delicious and
very gracefully served, the elegant china,
glass and silver, the snowy linen, the fra-
grance of rare and beautiful flowers all gave
added charms to the refreshments. Conver-
sation was general and many were the sin-
cere and earnest encomiums of praise upon
the hostess and her assistants of her own
family.
	Such delightful intercourse helps to cheer
life’s somber pathway, and not only the
guests but the hostess herself will feel the
refreshing and uplifting influence of such
company amid such surroundings. And
when Mrs. Jennings goes abroad as we un-
derstand she expects to do soon, she will
remember with satisfaction the happiness
she gave to others in her luxurious home in
Zion, and they will recall the visit with
pleasure and a fervent blessing and a prayer
upon her way.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE secretary of each Stake organization
of the Relief Society will please send statis-
tical and financial report of her respective
Stake for the year 1897, as soon as possible
to the General Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Templeton, Salt Lake City. Branches of
the Relief Society not included in any of the
Stakes of Zion will also send annual reports
so that the secretary may be able to prepare
a complete and correct report of the Society
in good time for the April conference 1898.

	STATE SENATOR Martha H. Cannon who
went to Washington, D. C. by special in-
vitation of the officers of the National
American W. S. A. to attend the Semi-
Centennial celebration of the Woman’s
Rights convention held in Seneca Falls,
New York State, 1848, left this city Feb. 14
and arrived in good time (no doubt) for the
opening session. She had been notified by
the corresponding secretary, Rachel Foster
Avery, that she was appointed on the com-
mittee to speak before the Senate committee
and also at the convention. The Woman's
Journal of Boston gives us the only infor-
mation we have upon the subiect, and we
must await further facts until Dr. Cannon
returns to tell her own story or give us
newspaper comments. We learned incident-
ly that she left Washidgton for Philadelphia
after the convention was over.


THE George Washington Memorial
entertainment on Saturday evening Feb.
19, was a great success. The entertain-
ment was given at Major and Mrs Downey’s
residence 808 E. First South St. The
house is admirably adapted for entertaining,
spacious halls and rooms large and con-
nected with folding doors. The decora-
tions were simply superb and one could not
help feeling the enthusiasm that comes
from flags, stars and stripes, banners and
martial music, officers in uniform and all
the paraphernalia of military costumes.
Some of the ladies of the committee were in
the costume of 1776—with powdered hair,
feathers, high combs and rare old laces, and
under the canopy of very beautiful silk
flags shone with social brilliancy, making a
very pretty effect. In fact all the arrange-
ments seemed perfect in every detail. The
tables where refreshments were served were
very inviting and the ladies who did the
honors were charmingly attired and per-
formed the duties gracefully. In fact all
went off merrily and every one declared it
the most brilliant event of the season. The
music was par excellence, and there seemed
nothing wanting to make the whole affair
delightful to all participants. The com-
mittee are now assured of the financial suc
cess of the entertainment.


NOTICE.

	THE secretaries of the several branches of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake are
urgently requested to send in their reports.
The Relief Society conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the 14th ward As-
sembly hall on March 19, 1898.
MARGARET Y. TAYLOR, Sec.
33 S. 1st West St.


THE CLEOFAN.

	ON Wednesday afternoon the Cleofan
was highly entertained by Mrs. Annette
W. Culmer who gave an interesting topic
on the life and character of Edmund Spen-
cer, also a bright and instructive paper on
the chief qualities and influences of his
poetry was read by Mrs. Cora Eldredge.
The club adjourned for one week.
	CLARA T. FELT, Cor. Sec. pro tem.


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-Monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall, Saturday Jan. 22, 1898, President M.
I. Horne presiding. Singing "Welcome
best of all good meetings." Prayer by
Counselor C. C. Cannon. Singing "Jesus
the Giver." The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne in her opening remarks
stated that a very benevolent firm in the
city, viz. Walker Bros., are distributing a
large amount of flour and coal to the poor.
Said the business of the meeting consisted
in finding out how many poor were in each
ward.
	Brother Goddard who was present made
a few remarks. He noticed in the reports
made that the people were all acting in
unison with their Bishops.
	President Zina D. H. Young wished to
be guided by the holy Spirit, and said one
keynote of the Gospel was obedience. Said


[Column 1]
many of the faces here she had known
since childhood. Urged the sisters never
to neglect their prayers night or morning,
for then their hearts would be kept warm
within them and they would love one
another, and they would then have the
Spirit of the Lord. Said she could scarce-
ly realize that this Gospel had gone
throughout the world. We could only do
our duty today, we could not do it for to-
morrow; it was like feeding a little baby
just a teaspoonful of nourishment at a time.
She thought we did not realize near all the
blessings of the Gospel, and felt to thank
God that He inspired President Brigham
Young to organize these meetings, and
prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke of the com-
mencement of the new year and of the many
good resolutions that had been made, also
spoke on fault finding and said whenever
we felt like doing so we should go to the
Lord in humility and pray for them and for
ourselves; knew if we indulged in fault
finding, especially about the Priesthood in
authority, that it would lead to apostacy.
Thought it was a noble work to look after
the poor and to administer to them, and that
it would keep our hearts warm. God had
inspired these benovelant men to help the
poor, that it was His work. Said that she
had heard a Bishop say that notwithstand-
ing the hard times that now existed never
before had they been so well prepared to
look after their poor, and felt this was an
evidence that God was our help and Father
in time of need, even as He had promised
He would be. 
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said as she was
not here last meeting she wished us all a
happy and a prosperous New Year. Spoke
of a meeting she attended in West Bounti-
ful and said she had never in all her life
attended such a meeting. The Spirit of
the Lord was poured out to a great degree.
Said she felt a great anxiety for our young
children but still felt they would be cared
for and loved. Urged those who had but
one talent to make the most of it.
	Brother Goddard was very much pleased
by the remarks of the sisters. Spoke of the
signs of the times and of laying up wheat
and flour, and said that Brother George Q.
Cannon in their Sunday School meeting
had urged the brethren to preach the word
of wisdom, especially to the young people.
Sang “God moves in a mysterious way.”
	Sister Sarah Phelps said she felt there
were great things before us. She knew
that the spirit of repentance would be
poured out upon the rising generation.
Spoke in tongues, which was interpreted by
“Sister Zina.”
	President Horne thought we had had a
very good meeting, even if there were a
good many temporal things to attend to.
There was every help in the world for peo-
ple to live their religion; there were mis-
sionaries both abroad and at home, and
many kinds of meetings for people to know
what was right. Thought mothers did not
teach their children young enough to pray
and have faith in God. Said that instead
of the people being tried they were being
proven, spoke strongly on the signs of the
times and prayed that we might be faithful
and true to our covenants and to God.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks by
singing, “The time is far spent.” Benedic-
tion by Brother Goddard.	
			ZINA H. Bull, Sec.

[Column 2]
	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Feb. 5, 1898, President Horne presid-
ing. Singing “Now let us rejoice in the
day of salvation” Prayer by Counselor E.
Webb. Singing “Let those who would be
Saints indeed.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved.
	President Horne hoped the sisters would
testify of the goodness of God, those who
testified of God He would bring up in re-
membrance before Him. Spoke of improv-
ing our talents, if we only had one we
should make the most of it, this was the
word of the Lord. There was not one of
the sisters if she had the Spirit of the Lord
and attempted to speak, no matter how lit-
tle she said, but that some one would be
benefited by it. Said she hoped that all
would feel free that we might have a good
time together.
	Sister Margaret O. Brown felt it was
good for us to meet together if only to
praise the Lord. She enjoyed so much
hearing President Horne speak and knew
she had a world of knowledge to impart by
which we were always benefited. Said her
heart was full of rejoicing for the blessings
of the Lord and thought we should always
try to live so that we might feel this way.
Said many of the dead for whom she had
officiated had appeared to her in dreams and
she knew they were pleased for what she
had done.
	Sister Ford said her heart was full of re-
joicing, and spoke of administering to the
poor; said those who gave to the poor
loaned to the Lord and felt to say God bless
those men who had so generously given to
the poor, also prayed God would bless all
who were here this afternoon.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and spoke of the goodness of
God to her. She loved her brothers and
sisters; the scriptures said when we loved
one another we had the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt it was not
right to let the precious moments go to
waste, referred to the hymn just sung “Let
those who would be Saints indeed,” said
never before had it struck her so forcibly,
thought there was a sermon in it and urged
all to read it. Said she felt much edified by
the remarks of President Horne, expressed
her anxiety for the young people and said
she heard Brother Andrew Jensen say that
the Scandinavians were forming an asso-
ciation to look after the young girls of their
nationality, thought this was a very worthy
object. Prayed that the Lord would help
us to remember what we had heard this
afternoon and referred to a prophecy of
Brother Heber C. Kimball wherein he said
that the time would come when we could
not pick up a paper which would not be
filled with terrible things which would
make our hearts sick. Thought the time
had indeed come.
	Sister Armeda S. Young spoke of the
class work of Sister Sorenson and the great
amount of good she was doing, the object
was the same as President Young advocated,
to study our bodies and make good mothers.
	Sister Carrie Kester urged the sisters to
attend these classes. Sister Phelps felt the
Lord was pouring out His Spirit upon His
daughters, and thought it was the young
men that needed to be labored with instead
of the girls.
	Sister Butterworth testified to the good-
ness of the Lord to her in raising her little
grand son from almost death. He was

[Column 3]
very ill but had been healed by the power
of the Lord, and felt very grateful for her
many blessings.
	Sister Carlhurst bore her testimony and
spoke very feelingly in regard to the pro-
tection of young girls who were compelled
to work out for their living, and urged the
sisters to use their influence with those who
hired girls to throw over them a mother’s
watch care.
	President Horne had enjoyed the beauti-
ful testimonies of the sisters. She thought
every one who hired help should have a
watch care over them; and knew there was
a great deal of iniquity abroad, but hoped
the time would come when such would not
be the case. 
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing
Doxology. Benediction by Counselor C.
C. Cannon.
			ZINA H. BULL, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	ON the evening of Nov. 4, 1897, Sister
Kapala Pahupu departed this life in the
sixtieth year of her age. She died suddenly
without any apparent suffering.
	Deceased was a very faithful sister; at the
time of her death was a teacher in the 
Iosepa Relief Society, also an officer in the
Y. L. M. I. A.. She was president of the
Hilo Relief Society on the Sandwich Islands
until 1888, when she resigned her position
to emigrate to Utah, having lost both hus-
band and child on the islands and being
alone she made her home with
her sister, Mrs. Marla MaKaula and
her husband, from her arrival to the time of
her death. They assisted her in performing
her Temple work at Logan just previous to
coming with the first colony to Iosepa Aug.
28, 1889.
	Sister Kapala was in every way fully
prepared for death, and the loss to our little
settlement of one so faithful and true is
really the only regret we can feel. She
was strong and healthy up to the last and
seemed to enjoy attending a little garden of
her own in which she raised fine vegetables,
strawberries, melons and fruit and also
flowers; and she delighted to gather some
of the first and choicest and bring them as a
love offering to those she liked best. Many
a pleasant little surprise of this kind she has
brought us in the early summer mornings.
She was the most graceful swimmer I ever
saw.
	She attended all of the meetings punctu-
ally and was a logical and dignified speaker,
never missing the opportunity of bearing
her testimony or speaking on the principles
of the Gospel, yet was withal modest and re-
tiring. All who knew her loved her for her
worth, she was indeed one of earth’s noblest
women. She ever labored faithfully both
temporally and spiritually and had her nice
linen burial robes all ready and looked
when laid out just like one in a graceful
sleep. She was a fine needlewoman and
was one of the most diligent in working 
upon the pioneer quilt the Iosepa Relief
Society presented to President Woodruff
during his illness this last summer.
			EMILY G. CLUFF, Pres.
			ELLEN HALEMANU, Sec.


THE more we live for self the less we
shall find the value of existence; the more
we live for others and out of self, the great-
er will be the joy and satisfaction of living.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	JANETTE M’MURRIN DAVIS
   With loving remembrance we record the de-
mise of Sister Janette McMurrin Davis, who de-
parted this life March 24, 1897, at Clifton, Oneida, 
Idaho. She was born in Glasgow, Scotland, Dec.
23, 1854, and was the daug[h]ter of Joseph and Mar-
garet McMurrin, late of Salt Lake City. She
came to Uta[h] in 1856 and was married to Riley
Davis in 1872. She has been a resident of this 
place a number of years and has been a faith'ul
woman. holding the position of second counselor
in the Relief Society at two different times; she
also held the position of president at the time of
her death. 
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
   WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit
in his alwise providence to call from our midst
our beloved sister, be it
   RESOLVED, That we the members of the Clifton
Relief Society recognize in the death of our be-
loved and honored president the great loss of an
able and efficient officer, and a very devoted
Saint and colaborer in the cause of truth—
   RESOLVED, that we condole and deeply sympa-
thize with the bereaved husband and family in the
loss of a kind and affectionate wife and mother.
   RESOLVED, That we cherish her memory and
regard her virtues as ever worthy of emulation.

   She was a dear loving wife, companion and
mother in the highest and truest sense that mor-
tals are permitted to enjoy. Her sweet voice and
influence were a charm to those who associated 
with her. It was only necessary to be slightly
acquainted with her to love her.  Her genial
qualities will be rememebred by all of her friends,
and they can but mourn her loss and sympathize
with her bereaved family. She truly rests in
peace, freed from sickness and sorrow, pain and 
death; she is in the society of parents and chil-
dren that have gone before to await the morning
of a glorious resurrection of the just, when she
will again mingle with the Saints and help to
build up the holy city and temple of our God in
which it will be the happy lot of all the pure in
heart to be associated.
   Though we deeply mourn her loss we rejoice
that her spirit is liberated from its frail tenement,
and we will cherish her memory, for her good
deeds will live in the remembrance of all who have
at heart the welfare of Zion, and especially the
sisters who are uniting in associations for the ele-
vation of womankind[.]
   RESOLVED, That these resolutions be entered
in the Re[l]ief Society record; also that a copy be 
presented to the bereaved family and one sent to
the “Woman’s Exponent” for publication.

	Mourn not for your wife dear brother,
	   You will meet her if you’re true
	To the cause of truth and virtue,
	    And your onward course pursue.

	Children mourn not for your mother,
	   For her home is now with God, 
	But strive to follow in her footsteps,
	   And ho[l]d fast the “iron rod.”

	Then bow to God and ask for comfort,
	   And that blessing you will gain;
	For your mother’s in His keeping,
	   And is free from earthly pain.
			ELIZABETH N. HENDERSON, 
							President.
			AMELIA J. DIXON,
			CHRISTINA ANDERSON,
						Counselors.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS

PARK CITY.
	BELIEVING our sisters would like to
know what their sisters are doing in Relief
Society work in this part of the State, I ap-
pend our annual report as follows:
On hand at last report..............$13.65
Total receipts for 1897.............515.70
	Total.......................$529.35
Disbursements—
To Church buildings..............$434 45
To the poor......................17.35

[Column 2]
To expenses.......................32.90
On hand..........................44.65
	Total.......................$529.35
	Of the above receipts we received from
the proceeds of a fair we held under the
auspices of the Relief Society, $393.05.
	Our society is in a favorable condition for
doing good work for the coming year, all
being as well as it appears now.
ELIZA HALES, Sec.
MARIAN, CASSIA CO., IDAHO.
	Although the Relief Society of Cassia
Stake has not been heard of through the
columns of your paper for some time, never-
theless they have been alive to their duties.
	At a conference just held at Oakley, as
also at the one held three months previous-
ly, the verbal reports of the various repre-
sentatives showed the members to be mani-
festing increased interest and diligence. A
number of the branches hold alternately
with the monthly testimony meetings what
we term a literary meeting, the exercises in
which call for more or less reading and
study on the part of the members.
	The statistical and financial reports read
at the last conference show a slow but
steady increase in both members and means,
also in the storage of wheat. There is not
much call for charitable work, some of the
wards report no poor among them.
	President Louisa Haight presided at the
conference. She and her counselors, H. E.
Tuttle and Ann Wilson, though all in poor
health, felt to praise the Lord for His good-
ness, and encourage the sisters in their work
of charity and mutual improvement. In
connection with others the meeting was ad-
dressed by Sister Avery of Castle Valley,
also by Brother Moroni Pickett of the Stake
presidency and Bishop John L. Smith of
Oakley.
LOUISA PICKETT, Rec. Sec.
	Feb. 20, 1898.
PROVO FOURTH WARD.
	THE annual meeting of the board of
managers of the Provo Fourth ward Relief
Society was held in the Society house on
Saturday February 3, 1898, at 10 a. m.,
President M. M. Watson presiding. In the
absence of the secretary Anna B. Selck was
chosen secretary pro tem.
	Minutes of Jan. 28, 1897, were read and
accepted, showing one hundred and five
officers and members enrolled, and twenty-
eight meetings held. The treasurer’s report
for the year ending February 1, 1898, was
then read, showing donations received in
cash, provisions and merchandise as follows:
Receipts $157.25; disbursments $124.25;
balance on hand $33.00; wheat 30 bushels.
	President M. M. Watson said she was
well pleased with the report and had en-
joyed her labors among the sick and needy
in the ward, and felt to encourage all to at-
tend the meetings during the present year.
	It was moved and seconded that the old
board be re-elected with the exception of
Sarah E. Cluff resigned. The officers that
comprise the board are as follows: Margaret
M. Watson, president; Mary M. Boyden,
first vice-president; Delia I. Booth, second
vice-president; Mary Boshard, secretary;
Anna B. Selck, assistant secretary; Mary
M. Boyden, treasurer; Jane B. Snyder,
Sophina Gee and Harriet E Bean, trustees.
Plans for the new year were adopted and
the meeting adjourned subject to call.
ANNA B. SELCK, Asst. Sec.

[Column 3]
VIRGIN CITY, DIXIE.
	THE annual meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety convened in the Virgin City meeting
house Feb. 3, 1898. Meeting was called to
order by Sister Emma Hinton. President
Sariah Workman and her counselors, Emma
Hinton and Mary Spendlove were present,
also Counselor Charles Burk. After the
usual exercises of singing and prayer the
roll was called showing an attendance of
twenty-one; the secretary read the annual
report showing an average attendance of
eighteen. The treasurer then read her re-
port showing a little increase of property in
the past year. We have on hand some lit-
tle means necessary for burying our dead,
for we live in some very trying circum-
stances. We have no store to depend on,
and it is impossible to get what we want at
the right time.
	Brother Charles Burk was the first speak-
er. He said he felt grateful to the sisters
for the good they had done in the past, and
knew that the spirit of the Lord was with
them.
	President Workman and several other
sisters also spoke. Said they felt grateful
for the many blessings we have enjoyed.
We live in a little far off corner, but we try
to live for the hope that is within us; but
when one looks around and reads the news-
papers it makes one think that peace is
taken from the earth. And yet we are
supposed to be preparing for the coming of
our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ; for we
believe that not only the Latter-day Saints
have faith in His near advent but the
whole Christian world seems to feel more or
less the spirit of the times, and that great
events are about to transpire and we hope
not to be found asleep, and if we are awake
we may be found among those who have
oil in their vessels and their lamps trimmed
and burning.
EMILY A. STRATTON, Sec.
LAIE OAHU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.
Dear Sister:
	You will please find inclosed our Relief
Society report for the past year, and think-
ing that the readers of the “Exponent”
would be interested in hearing from this
part of the Lord’s vineyard, I take pleasure
in writing to you as nearly as possible what
we are doing.
	I am pleased to say that the work is pro-
gressing nicely, and I think our association
will compare favorably with others. We
find among the Hawaiian sisters many
faithful and energetic workers. They take
great interest in learning of things pertain-
ing to the Gospel and I have known some
of them to walk from three to eight miles to
attend meeting. Many of them are very
thoughtful in caring for the Elders who are
traveling on the adjacent islands, providing
food for them and attending to their wash-
ing.
	At present there are twenty-eight branch-
es, and as a rule meetings are held
weekly. We hold officers meeting the
second Saturday of each month. This day
is the special fast day for the missionaries
laboring here. The officers meeting is held
at our Mission house, and we instruct the
native sisters in regard to the Relief Soci-
ety work. We have a short program in
which we take up the principles of the
Gospel. Every two weeks visitors are sent
out to encourage the members to attend
their meetings, and once in six weeks I


send some of the leading sisters to the other
islands to visit them in their conferences,
and I hope that we missionary sisters may
be able to visit all the branches of the
society on the islands in the near future.
	At present their are five sisters on the
mission, myself, Sister Ella C. Berdno, Sis-
ter Tryphena B. Garff, Sister Elizabeth C.
Williams and Sister Jennie Patten Musser.
We are striving for a knowledge of the lan-
guage and endeavoring in our weak way to
teach the sisters here principles that will
elevate them. Besides our Relief Society
work we each have a class in the Sunday
School and assist in the Mutual Improve-
ment and the Primary work. We have our
temporal labors to attend to, and feel thank-
ful for having the privilege of spending a
portion of our time in assisting to roll on
this great work. We feel that we have
been greatly blessed in so doing.
	Any word of encouragement or instruct
tion from our leading sisters at home would
be gladly received by us. We receive
regularly your valuable and interesting
paper which is greatly appreciated by us.
			Your sister in the Gospel,
				ALICE R. WOOLLEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOME OF THE SECTS OF THE FIRST
			CENTURY. 
	AMONG the first we read of Epicurus. 
The Epicurians believed the world arose 
from chance; that the soul was mortal; that 
pleasure was sufficient to live for. 
	The Academics denied the possibility of 
arriving at truth and certainty; held it un-
certain whether God existed or not, or 
whether the soul was mortal or survived
the body. 
	The god of Aristotle was a bei [-] regard-
less of human affairs, such a god people had 
little reason to love or fear. 
	The god of the Stoics had a little more of 
majesty. He was described as a corporeal 
being and subject to fate. 
	Plato seems to have exceeded all the other 
philosophers in wisdom and reason. He
believed the world to be governed by an 
independent, powerful and intelligent God, 
and he taught men what to fear and what 
to hope for after death. Yet his doctrine 
rested on very slender foundations. 
	In Egypt arose another sect called the 
Eclectic. They held Plato in the highest 
esteem but they modified his doctrine and 
incorporated what they pleased from other
philosophers.
	Many other sects flourished in Palestine 
at the birth of our Savior. They were 
known under the names of Eseenes, Gali-
leans, Herodians, Nazarites, Scribes and 
Publicans. There was also the Jewish and
Samaritan. Yet the Jewish had lost much 
of its primitive character. In the New 
Testament we read of the Pharisees and the 
Sadducers. The Pharisees disregarded in 
ternal purity and sought for popular ap-
plause. The Sadducees discarded all future 
reward and punishments.
 	The Essenes, a fanatic and superstitious
tribe, made piety to consist in holy indo-
lence, and thus they severed themselves
from society. 
	Our Savior and His twelve apostles, the 
Christian church was founded, as we are 
aware, at Jerusalem, but the ambassadors 
of Christ traveled over a great part of the 
world. A number of churches founded by


them are mentioned in the Acts of the
Apostles.
   The history of these sects until the time
of our Savior is very obscure indeed, partly from the deficiency of ancient records, and 
partly from the ignorance and hostility of 
those who have written concerning them.
   After the decease of the apostles arose the 
Gnostics, who claimed ability to restore
to mankind the lost knowledge of the true
and Supreme God, and announced the over-
throw of that church which Christ and His
associates had set up. Thus we find that
different sects then existed as today,
and opinions were just as varied as now.
E.H.L.


ADDRESS.

UTAH MEMORIAL COMMITTEE.

   NEARLY one hundred years ago the great
American, George Washington, left a be-
quest to his country of $25,000, which sum
was to be expended in founding an Ameri-
can University. It was his desire that the
highest education of the youth of America
should be upon American soil under
American influences. He wished to found
a university where the highest education
should be given in the principles underly-
ing true statsmanship. The bequest was
made with the most careful directions as to
carrying out his intentions.
The money, perhaps through neglect was
lost, but the idea remains a perpetual leg-
acy and incentive to the whole people of
the United States. It was not only a duty
to the memory of Washington to make his
thought a reality, but our highest duty to
ourselves and rising generations to take ad- 
vantage of his wise forethought. On the 
22nd of February exercises of a patriotic
nature will be held in all the schools of
Utah. On that day when all hearts will be
turned to the great character which towers
above all others like the lofty mountain
peak above the valley, may not the rush of
grateful thought be crystalized into a good
deed which will erect an enduring monument
to the memory of Washington! The Utah
committee on the George Washington mem-
orial, duly organized under the national
committee, request that a collection of
small sums of money be taken up on that
day in the public schools. Large sums are
not wanted or asked for. The penny or
the nickel brings with it the interest of the
child, and every individual contributing
helps to make a broad foundation upon
which the university shall rest. We appeal
to parents and to teachers to help to make
the collection indicate the patriotic spirit of
the people of Utah. We confidently believe
that the response to this appeal will be uni-
versal, and rest our cause in the hands of
the citizens of the State.
M. B. SALISBURY,
	Chairman.
C. M. ALLEN,
	Vice-Chairman.
HESTER HARKNESS,
	Secretary.
E. B. WELLS,
	Press Representative.


To live in the presence of great truths, to
be led by permanent ideals—that is what
keeps a man patient when the world ignores
him, and calm and unspoiled when the
world praises him.


Save Your Money!

	And when you get a do lar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.

			WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

		Midwifery Classes.

	Dr. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
Teaches two classes yearly in Ob
stetrics and Nursing, beginning just
after the spring and fall Conference.
Special opportunities and prices are
given to Societies sending students,
and also to those who have had
previous study. 
	For full particulars please com-
municate either personally or by
letter with
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
	75 Center Street, Salt Lake City.

		R.K.THOMAS

	Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.

		The Leading Retail
		Cash House,

		R.K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

[handwritten on right side of page]
257

VOL. 26. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15 & APRIL 1, 1898. NOS. 20 & 21.


CONTENTS:
	A Strong Testimony—Jane Williams. A Sad
Occurrence—Phebe J. A lred. A New Granary
and Hal—Mary F. White. Madame Mountfo d.
An Evening with "Musings and Memories"—Ellis
R. Shipp. The Cleofan. The California Mission
—Ida M. Sarll. U. W. P. C. Relief Society En-
tertainment—Abby A. Piggott. Ladies’ Semi
monthly Meeting. In Memoriam. R. S. and P.
A. Reports.
	EDITORIAL:—The War Cry. F. Marion Craw-
ford. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY: Sister and Daughter—N. Never De-
spair—Martha S. Lippincott. Moanings—L. D.
Alder. Farewell to Thee—R. M. F  To Sister
L. M. Hart—Nancy Allred


For the Exponent.
SISTER AND DAUGHTER.

WITHIN the compass of these magic words,
What thoughts will crowd, and stir within the
heart!
Sweeter in tone than instrument or birds,
Although their tones oft bid rich echoes tart.
For there is music in a sister’s name,
And in her acts affection is enshrined;
Beloved at home, is all such ask of fame,
Where every wish and dream is intertwined!
Projects and loves and secrets not a few,
Are i[-]terchanged, yet sacred as is meet;
No friend though o d, no change how fresh or new,
Within the heart finds welcome half so sweet.
In infant years and childhood ever near.
Sisters—yet daughter, claiming mother love,
What ties so tender, what o life so dear,
Or who so looked for in the words above?
For mother, sister in that glorious sphere,
Preserve thou sacred ties which Love doth weld,
And heaven wou d be no heaven, I sadly fear,
If deathless circles ne’er the loved ones held!
Part of our life! we grow together here,
Sisters and daughters, mother—one, yet three,
And through eternal ages, it is surely clear,
Wherever one is, the rest will wish to be!
God has implanted in the depths profound,
That germ divine which links each soul to Him,
And loving makes us worthy to be crowned,
Amid that glory Ages cannot dim!
N.


NEVER DESPAIR.

WORK on e'en though the way be dark and drear,
And heavy clouds around us gathering,
Cause us to doubt success and fear despair,
Have faith, God holds in trust a better day,
And surely, sunshine is beyond the c ouds;
They soon will break and let the sunshine
	through;
A glorious vision then we'll surely see,
When peace and comfort all the world will find;
And rum no more shalf rule God's beauteous land.
Oh! how we'll sing our hallelujah then,
And make the glad world with the good news
ring.
Each one de[-]pairing weakens other's hope,
And makes it harder still to win the cause,
Fight on and never give a good cause up,
Until the battle we can win and shout,
A glorious victory for the cause of God.
I would not have you fight with sword or gun,
That is a barbarous way of olden times;


But God has taught us better, surer ways;
If we obey His orders and commands,
He then will teach us how to win His cause,
	God ne’er forsakes, if man will just believe,
Have faith and trust and work along with Him,
And then in time His cause is sure to win,
If we’ll but keep our shou der to the wheel,
With patience work until God sees the time
Has come, when we sha l victory proclaim.
But never lose our faith and cease to work;
For that would but delay the happy day,
When we can shout and make the whole air ring,
Glo y to God, our righteous cause is won.
MARTHA SHEPARD LIPPINCOTT.
Moo istown, N. J.


[Column 1]
A STRONG TESTIMONY.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	AFTER reading in the "Woman's Ex-
ponent" of the goodness of our Heavenly
Father manifested towards the women of
Utah, it causes my heart to long for the
time to come when I can be with them and
enjoy the same blessings. The Saints here
in England enjoy many blessings for which
they are very thankful, but they know
there are blessings in Zion that they cannot
have here.
	I belonged to the Church of England for
thirty years, and endeavored in my weak
way to follow out its teachings. I did not
have a strong enough foundation for my
faith, and hence it was too weak to bring
me joy and happiness. I remember how I
used to ponder over in my mind the time of
our beloved Savior and His Apostles, and
wonder to myself why we were not privi-
leged to enjoy the same blessings that they
enjoyed in those days. How strange! Is it
possible the Savior would bestow upon His
children in those days all these promised
blessings and then neglect us who are just
as devoted as they were? These thoughts
often passed through my mind and caused
me to entertain the idea that the church I
had belonged to for so long was not identi-
cal with the Church Jesus established while
here upon the earth.
	In consequence of this I began to feel
unsettled and wondered why such should
be the case. I then began to read and
pray, that I might learn something more of
the true church of Christ, and for over two
years I went from church to church in
search of the one that most resembled the
one established by the Savior. I continued
doing this until I became almost discouraged
but am thankful to say the hand of Provi-
dence was over me, and I was led to a fam-
ily of Latter-day Saints who invited me to
attend their meetings. This led to an in-
vestigation of what they taught, and in a
short time I learned the great reason for all
the different sects of Christianity being void
of the "gifts and blessings" that character-
ized the Primitive church. I learned of
the great apostacy that had swept over the
earth, and how the Lord in consequence of
this had taken from the midst of His people
the everlasting Gospel and all the gifts and
blessings which were enjoyed by those who

[Column 2]
complied with its principles.
	I remember how the remarks of the
Elders would impress themselves upon my
mind when refering to the restoration of
the Gospel and its gifts and blessings.
What faith true men have, I thought. They
promise me every blessing my heart has de-
sired for so many years past if I will go
down into the waters of baptism and re-
ceive a remission of my sins. They then
promise me the Holy Ghost by the laying
on of hands, which shall be my instructor
and comforter through life. These great
and glorious promises deserve my strict at-
tention. This was the first time in my life I
had ever been promised the same blessings
and privileges that were enjoyed by the
Former-day Saints, and I assure you my
heart leaped for joy. I almost feared the
promises too great to be true; but today I
have a testimony which I have received
from God in consequence of my throwing
aside my pride and obeying the sacred prin-
ciples of the Everlasting Gospel. The
power of the Priesthood manifested under
the hands of His authorized servants upon
my little children has been sufficient to con-
vince the whole world, if they would but
lay aside their prejudice and seek the Spirit
of the Lord to guide them into the only
true path of life and salvation.
	I remember of being so low in sickness
on one occasion that the doctor had
given me up to die, but the Elders came in
and laid hands upon me, and before their
hands were taken off my head all swelling
disappeared and the pain left me. Not
many weeks ago my husband met with a
serious accident while at work in the coal
pit, some of his bones being squeezed out of
place. People who saw him and under-
stood what he had passed through ex-
pressed themselves as believing him to be
in such a condition that he would never be
able to work any more. Again the power
of the Lord was manifested. Just as soon
as he was brought home the Elders laid
their hands upon him and anointed him
with oil; in a week he was back at work
again.
	I joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the year 1880, and dur-
ing that time all the blessings promised me
by the Elders whom I first met have been
granted.
	May the blessings of the Lord shine up-
on the women of Utah, and make them
bright and shining lights is the prayer of
Your sister in the Gospel,
JANE WILLIAMS.
Lancashire, England, Feb. 28, 1898.


EVERY goal in England and Wales now
has a Discharged Prisoners’ Aid Society
working in connection with it.
	THE REAL TROUBLE.—When her Majes-
ty the Queen was at Balmoral some time
ago she visited an aged cottager, and on
leaving said, “You will now, I hope, be no
longer afraid of me, and I shall expect you
to pay me a visit.” “Ah ma’am,” the old
woman replied, “its not yersel’ I’m fricht-
ened at; it’s them gran’ servants!”


WOMAN S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
A SAD OCCURRENCE.

Dear Sister Wells:
	WE are called upon to record a terrible
calamity that has befallen our little colony
in the sudden and dreadful death of our be-
loved sister, Agnes A. McDonald, wife of
Patriarch Alexander F. McDonald, who was
ruthlessly murdered by Mexicans on the
23rd of February last.
	Quite a number of settlers had gone to
Colonia Juarez, a distance of forty miles, to
attend the quarterly conference. She was
the post mistress of our colony and also
kept a small store, and it is supposed this
was what induced the wretches to commit
the horrible deed. She was a great deal of
the time the only occupant of the house,
though her son James lived just across the
street and other neighbors lived near.
	From the appearance of things the
wretches must have been watching her un-
til she retired, when crushing the window
in with an ax they leaped in, and from the
position she was found in it is supposed on
hearing the crash she sprang for the gun
(which she always kept hanging by the
bed) when the villians seizing her, threw
her back upon the bed and cruelly choked
her to death, then placed a  pillow over her
face and proceeded to go through every-
thing in the house and store room, taking
bolts of cloth, ready made shirts, overalls,
jumpers etc., and finding the box in which
she kept the cash, it being locked they took
it with them. In this position she was
found the next morning by her daughter in-
law who called her name repeatedly, and
received no answer. She went a little way
from the house to the cellar where they kept
vegetables, then returned and called again;
receiving no answer she tried the door, it
yielded. On looking in she saw everything
in confusion in the entry. She then passed
into the bedroom where the contents of
trunks, boxes and drawers lay strewed pro-
miscuously over the floor and glass all over
the room. She then summoned up all her
courage and went to the bed, where she
found the poor unfortunate woman with her
feet hanging from the bed and the cover
thrown over her body, and the pillow over
her face. To say that poor Ettie was para-
lyzed for the moment would be poorly ex-
pressing it. She then ran and gave the
alarm.
	The most active of the villians is sup-
posed to be a Mexican who a short time ago
had been working for them, for he knew
well the situation of the house and sur-
roundings, and just where she kept every-
thing. It seems that the deed was commited
in the early part of the night, as they seemed
to have taken their time in ransacking the
house and then rode leisurely away.
	Brother Peas who was hauling lumber
and was camping about three miles north of
here, heard a disturbance among his animals
and looking up to learn the cause saw four
horsemen riding by. It being very dark he
could not tell who they were, but supposed
they were settlers from the Colonies. In
the morning on looking for his harness he
missed a very valuable large horse, but
found the hobbles in the road where they
seemed to have been dropped.
	Morning found the settlers in pursuit of
the murderers and learning of the dreadful
deed Brother Peas very naturally concluded
that they were the thieves and he too joined
in the pursuit. They tracked the rascals by
the tracks made by the large horse, they

[Column 2]
went down the mountain road, passing
lumber teams, horsemen etc., from whom
they gained some information, until they
reached the Casas Grandes river where they
found the horses the rascals had been riding
and packing, including the large horse.
The officers stationed guards at every point
and had every house searched in and around
the city of Casas Grandes. We earnestly
pray that the officers will succeed in captur-
ing the assassins and secure their punish-
ment.
	Sister Agnes was born in Glasgow, Lan-
arkshire, Scotland, Sep. 8, 1838, her par-
ents were Alexander and Janette Aird. She
emigrated to Utah in 1864, crossed the
plains in ox teams and settled in Salt Lake
City. In 1866 she became the wife of
Alexander F. McDonald who is well known
throughout Utah, Arizona and Old Mexico.
She then moved to Provo, thence to St.
George, Utah, thence to Mesa City, Arizona,
and thence to Colonia, Juarez, Mexico,
where she resided until 1895, when she
came to this place where as in former places
she has lived, she has done a great work
and gained the good will of all who knew
her. On January 5, 1896, she was chosen
president of the Relief Society, which posi-
tion [-]he has ably filled, showing her sterl-
ing worth and qualifications to fill the
position.
	Her funeral services were held at 10 a.
m. Friday Feb. 25. The speakers were
Patriarch Henry Lunt, James Jensen,
Bishop George W. Hardy, B. L. Johnson
and L. T. Whetten, who gave good instruc-
tion and words of encouragment. Her re-
mains were then placed on a bier and borne
by eight brothers holding the priesthood,
followed by a procession of carriages, wag-
ons and horsemen.
	The sawmills, shinglemills and all kinds
of labor were suspended and a goodly num-
ber of brethren and sisters came from
Pacheco to attend the services, showing re-
spect and sympathy to our beloved sister
and for her devoted husband and children:
the former being absent on very important
business in El Paso, Texas, was not able to
get here in time for the funeral.
PHEBE I. ALLRED, (Cor.)
	Colonia, Chihuahua, Mexico Feb. 26.


A NEW GRANARY AND HALL. 

Editor Exponent: 

	A SUBSTANTIAL and commodious granary 
has recently been erected by the Beaver Re-
lief Society, which will enable them to con-
tinue the good work of gathering and stor-
ing grain for many years to come without 
being cramped for storage room, (which has 
been the case with them for several years.)
The building is of a beautiful magnesium 
rock and is about fifty feet long by twenty 
wide and a sixteen foot ceiling, and is di-
vided into two rooms. One portion has 
been fitted up as a granary 24 by 25 inside
measurements, and the other portion, which 
is not yet completed, is designed to be em-
bellished with a fine porch, and will make
an excellent apartment for a store or 
other business purposes. 
	The work of the building was projected 
in the early part of the year 1895, at a time 
when money was scarce and the Society 
was practically without any available funds. 
Confidence in the Lord that He would open


up the way, and in the people that they 
would be generous in the assistance they 
were called upon to render to further the 
interests of the work, was felt by the pre-
siding officers; and stimulated by this a 
commencement was made in the summer of 
1895. During that year a solid foundation 
was laid, and during the following year 
the walls were put up, the roof completed 
and a beautiful concrete floor laid in the 
granary, and last year the wheat was trans-
ferred from the old building, the grist mill 
and other places where the Society had 
been under the necessity of storing it, to the 
new granary, approximating one thousand 
bushels, where it is safe from the ravages of 
mice, rats and all other marauders, as the 
building is absolutely vermin proof. 
	In commemoration of this notable event 
in the history of the Beaver Relief Society 
a complimentary picnic and social party was 
extended to all who had in any manner con-
tributed to the enterprise, as also those who 
had been employed in the construction of 
the edifice, on Thursday, Feb. 10, in the 
Assembly hall. 
	The exercises commenced at 11 a. m. by 
singing and prayer, which was followed by 
an extended program of speeches, recita-
tions, songs etc., lasting until 2 p. m. when 
a bountiful supply of edibles was passed 
around to the assembled guests. The re-
freshments consisted of numerous courses 
of delicious sandwiches, pies, cake etc., 
which amply testified to the culinary 
achievements of the cooks. After the feast 
of good things had been disposed of the 
program of exercises was continued until 5 
p. m., when the benediction was pronounc-
ed and the people dispersed with many ex-
pressions of appreciation at the successful 
termination of the efforts of the promoters 
of the social event of the season. 
MARY F. WHITE, Sec.


MADAME MOUNTFORD. 

	ON Monday afternoon the 14th Feb., 
we received a call from Madame Mountford,
the noted Palestine lecturer. She had just 
arrived that morning from New York. 
During the early part of 1897 this talented 
lady spent some three months in Utah.
While there she lectured in all the principal
cities and towns of the State, and became 
quite attached to the people. From Utah
she went on to California, returning to Salt 
Lake in July to attend the pioneer jubilee
celebration. In January of this year on her 
return from the Pacific coast she again 
visited Salt Lake City and on Sunday Janu-
ary 9, spoke at the afternoon services held 
in the Tabernacle, concluding her remarks 
by bidding the people a fond farewell be-
fore returning to her home in Jerusalem. 
She paid a high tribute to the Latter-day 
Saints and their venerable president, Wil-
ford Woodruff. 
	Being so favorably impressed with our 
people and feeling so much at home in their 
midst she has taken the trouble to hunt up 
the missionaries on her way as she journeys 
along. She expects to spend a few months 
in England before continuing her journey. 
	Madame Mountford is a lady of culture 
and refinement. She commands a dignified 
yet easy and natural presence. In conver-
sation she is very entertaining. Her ideas 
are liberal, and she has a good word for all 
nationalities and peoples with whom she 
comes in contact in her extensive travels. 
-Millenial Star.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MOANINGS.

Be still my heart! ye flutterings cease, 
And calmly wait the dawn of peace !
Rude winds have roughly swept thy strings—
In minor chords it wailing sings.

The sea of life is raging, wild surges roll !
Dark sorrow’s wave engulfs my soul,
But softly borne o’er the water’s foam
Hear the wistful sigh “’Tis not thy home.”

Moaning it falls on the listening ear;
Floats high then low o’er the water drear;
But clearer it sounds when the wind’s wild roar
Blows the music near from the far off shore. 

Arise my soul and spread thy weary wings!
For hope a lu’laby sweetly sings;
Like a light, it beckons o’er the stormy sea,
And whispers so softly “Come to me, come to me.'’

If all days were sunny, the sunsets all fair,
Then never another’s woe would we share;
If heartaches and crosses we never had borne.
Had never our bosoms been pierced with a thorn,

Then never the love that the Master has given,
Would grow in our lives to draw us to heaven;
If never a wanderer far o’er the sea’s foam,
Then never we’d know of the pleasures of home.

“Come to me,come to me”is stil whispered low—
O cling to thy 1 ord though many tears flow;
Still hoping and striving whatever betide,
Till the fair shore is reached where the angels
	abide.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
Jan.1898.


FAREWELL TO THEE. 

	[Song written in honor of Brother Ezra Steven-
son and sung at his farewell party.]

THOU blest son of Zion we bid thee adieu,
The nations are calling for men brave and true,
To bring them the Gospel and show them the
	way,
Revea’ed by the Father in this Latter-day.

			CHORUS.

	Farewell to thee, farewell to thee,
	We sadly, yet proudly say farewell to thee.

So noble thy mission, thy calling divine,
The powers and blessings of heaven are thine,
To wield for His glory and in His great name,
Perform mighty wonders and Israel redeem.

			CHORUS.

Though oft we shall miss thee we bid thee God
	speed,
And pray that the nation thy message may heed,
May angels go with thee thy footsteps to guide,
Until thou returnest with us to abide.

			CHORUS.

If sometimes thy pathway is lonely and drear, 
May fair visions of home like sunshine appear,
Though sinners pursue thee and scoffers de ide,
Remember we love thee what e’er may betide.

R. M. F.


QUEEN MARGHERITA of Italy has made
herself responsible for the execution of a
plan to build an observatory at the summit
of Monte Rosa, at a height of 4,560 metres.
The work on it has already been begun.
The queen, who, as is well known, is an
enthusiastic mountaineer, is in the habit of
spending several weeks each year at the
summit of Monte Rosa. The observatory
will be higher than that on Mount Blanc,
and the highest in Europe. The cost will
be about $50,000.


Published by request.
AN EVENING WITH “MUSINGS AND
MEMORIES.”

OVATION TO EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	NEVER were the finer instincts of true
poetic natures more richly feasted than on
the evening of February 26, 1898, when an
ovation was given to Sister Emmeline B.
Wells in honor of the publication of her
poetical writings, “Musings and Memories.”
	Over a hundred ladies all friends, “tried
and true,” of the gifted lady, met at the
residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 75 Center
St. After cordial greetings and congratu-
lations the hostess was given the honor of
chairman. The program was composed al
most entirely from Mrs. Wells’ poems—and
opened with the Ladies singing “Our
Mountain Home so Dear.” Our veteran
Mother in Israel, Sister M. Isabella Horne,
then drew us near to the throne of God
with sacred invocation. The chairman
then called the name of each lady, who re-
sponded with a sentiment from the little
book whose birth we were celebrating.
Miss Olea Shipp sang “True Friendship”
in her sweet contralto, after which Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder gave an elaborate and en-
tertaining review of the book, which was
listened to with enrapt attention. Mrs.
Maggie Bassett and Mrs. Pearl Fernstrom,
nee Russell, sang in their sweetest voices and
Miss Ellis R. Shipp read “The Happy
Maiden.”
	How often have we felt our hearts thrilled
by childrens’ voices singing “Little Chil-
dren Love the Savior,” but never did the
words sound sweeter than at this time when
it was sung by ten little girls in white
dresses, white flowers in their hair and
creamy roses in their hands. The senti-
ment of loving gratitude of thousands of
childish hearts was expressed when they
laid their tribute of flowers in the author’s
lap, receiving in turn kisses and sweet
smiles through dewy tears.
	The name of Dr. R. B. Pratt was then
called who in a few well chosen words pre-
sented to Mrs. Wells in behalf of many
friends, a beautiful book which was a poem
in itself—it being unique in that it was en-
tirely original, each page representing in-
dividual work of nearly a hundred ladies.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells:—Your book of poems,
a long looked for treasure, is now a beauti-
ful, tangible fact and its perusal gives us
sweet pleasure, profit and consolation.
	It is a shining leaf in your “laurel
wreath” of fame with which you stand en-
crowned on your seventieth birthday anni-
versary.
	Your sheaf of years, bound with the
golden cord of love, sympathy and helpful-
ness towards your many friends is fraught
with histories both sweet and sad, but
borne with such fortitude, energy and full
fruition of noble works as is encompassed
rarely in the lives of mortals.
	May your remaining days be less ardu-
ous but even more full of desires accom-
plished; and may the sun of peace and
prosperity and fame ever grow brighter as
you wend your way toward the sunset of
life.
	This book of flowers and sentiments
which I have the honor to present to you,
reflects in every leaf the love and affection
and taste of an individual friend. May it in
days to come be a sweet reminder of our

[Column 2]
days of friendship and association, and buoy
up your heart, if perchance a shadow may
darken an hour.
“Our hearts desire for thee more than we can ex-
	press.
Long life, true joy and an eternal happiness.”
								R. B. P.
	At the close of the literary exercises all
repaired to the dining room to partake of
delicious refreshments amid the cheerful
hum of voices, the perfume of fragrant flow-
ers and sweet strains of music floating
through the rooms, enlivening the hours
and exhilarating the soul.
	True poetry is the divine music of the
inner soul! To feel its instinctive power,
to listen to its silent whisperings, and more
than all, to be able to express its euphoni-
ous eloquence is to be wafted (so to speak)
from our materialistic beings into the realms
of the infinite.
	Those who peruse “Musings and Memor-
ies” must surely feel this mental exaltation.
How many useful lessons we learn from
these truthful touches of nature—“The
Spirit of Consolation,” Sorrow and Sym-
pathy,” “Faith and Fidelity,” the rambles
through woodland and glen and in “The
Dear Old Garden,” the voice from the
mountain and the plaintive, weird music of
the sea—all reach the inmost soul and lure
us back to heaven. The grandest thoughts
of human souls are thus immortalized and
live again within the heart of ages yet un-
born. And methinks in that blest home
where Father dwells, angelic hearts will
sing these songs of praise—these gems of
inspiration—that come to mortals here be-
low as beams of heavenly light from His
exalted presence.
				ELLIS R. SHIPP.


THE CLEOFAN.

	ON Tuesday afternoon the Cleofan enjoy-
ed a topic on the Fairy Queen, by Mrs.
Clara M. Clawson. The Epithalamium
was given by Mrs. Mary J. Clawson. Spen-
cer as a Philosophic Poet, by Mrs. Margie
D. Jennings. All were given in a clear
and concise manner. The club adjourned
for one week.
	March 1, 1898.
	On Tuesday afternoon the Cleofan en-
joyed character readings from Richard III.
by Mrs. Susie D. R. Wells, Mrs. Annie S.
Young, Mrs. Margie D. Jennings and Mrs.
Clara M. Clawson. Mrs. Susie D. R.
Wells gave the story of the play in a most
nteresting manner. The club adjourned
for one week.
	March 8, 1898.
	ON Tuesday afternoon the Cleofan en-
joyed a discussion of Miss M. J. Evans’
paper “The school a moral faction in the
nation,”—by Mrs. Susie D. R. Wells.
Miss. May gave a charming talk on the
Kindergarten system. Reports for the pub-
lic schools were given by Miss Emeline
Wells, Miss Kate Wells, Mrs. Evelyn Y.
Davis and Mrs. Blanche P. Lee. The club
adjourned for one week.
	March 15, 1898.
CLARA T. FELT, Cor. Sec. pro tem.


THE bill to submit a suffrage amendment
was defeated Feb. 15, in the Upper House
of the Iowa Assembly, 50 to 47.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Business hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15 & APRIL 1, 1898.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE general conference of the Relief So-
ciety will be held on Tuesday, April 5,
1898, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this city, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. as usual. It is very desirable
that there should be representation from
each Stake organization of the Society, eith-
er the president or one of her counselors
should attend or authorize some one to act
for the board, All members of the Society
are cordially invited, also the Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary. Presidents, Bishops and
brethren will be most welcome.
	There will be an officers’ meeting on
Saturday, April 9, at the same place, com-
mencing at 10 a. m. and all officers of the
Society are urgently requested to attend.
ZINA D. H. YOUNG
President.
JANE S. RICHARDS
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
Counselors.


THE WAR CRY.

	FOR some time past a war cry has been
in the air all over this country and in
other lands and to many war has seemed in-
evitable. The telegraphic news has been
conflicting yet on the whole it has sound-
ed threatening, to put the matter mildly.
The explosion of the Maine has formed
the topic for weeks, and now that the
Court of Inquiry has rendered its verdict,
there seems little change in the general
commotion. Preparations for war in the
army and navy are going forward and the
outlook is not a happy one to say the
least.
	At last President McKinley has spoken;
his message on the subject including the
findings of the court, were presented to the
Congress of the United States Monday,
March 28, and was received with intense
interest. Congress took deliberate and dig-
nified action—the message was referred to
Committees.
	The times are war-like in aspect and
many “wise men of Gotham” anticipate
war in the near future. The City of
Havana is reported to be a veritable vol-
cano. War ships and torpedo boats seem
to be engaging the attention of men, and
if one listens to the war talk in public
places, one might easily assume that peace
was indeed taken from the earth.
	However, one fact is apparent, there is
much suffering and destitution. America


is acting nobly in relieving the distressed
and the Red Cross Society are on hand to
take charge of supplies and manage these
affairs economically.
	Spain would show wisdom if she would
consent to the measures proposed by the
American government, for surely she will
be made to yield ignominisously if war is
entered upon. Those who desire an ami-
cable settlement of affairs continue hopeful
and perhaps the cry of war may pass by
this time without involving nations as
now seems not unlikely; but eventually
the prophecies concerning these things
must be fulfilled however much people
who love peace may regret the necessity of
war.


[Column 1]
F. MARION CRAWFORD.

	THE distinguished author and lecturer,
F. Marion Crawford, recently paid Utah a
visit speaking in Provo, Salt Lake and
Ogden.
	Mr. Crawford is an American though
born in Rome, where his father (Thomas
Crawford) was at the time studying sculp-
ture. He has had a cosmopolitan educa-
tion—has studied at Harvard and at Cam-
bridge, England, and Heidleburg, Germany,
has traveled very extensively and at one time
edited a newspaper in Allahabad, India; he
has lived much in foreign parts, principally
in Italy and Sicily. He is a man of broad
views and has a decided originality that is
very charming. He is very tall and of mag-
netic presence, has a rich, clear voice and
eloquent eyes, his diction is perfect, one
never loses a word, nor even an accent.
With most of his books the people of Salt
Lake City are familiar and unlike most
authors he was evidently willing to talk of
his stories.
	His lecture in this city was under the
auspices of the Ladies Literary club and
was given in the M. E. Church on Third
South St. Mr. Crawford was introduced to
the audience by Rev. Henry, who had
known him in New York City. The audi-
ence was large, the hall being crowded to
its utmost capacity. The subject was Leo
XIII. and the Vatican. Evidently the
speaker was in love with his theme; it was
apparent throughout the evening, for he
spoke nearly two hours. He described the
Pope graphically, both the outward and the
inner man; one who heard him could easily
see the picture and imagine the voice and
manner of the man he portrayed. A scholar,
a poet, a statesman, brilliant in intellectual
attainments, cultured and polished in all
that gives tone and finish to the gentleman
and scholar, and yet simple in tastes and
habits in the details of life. Mr. Crawford
compared Pope Leo with Lincoln and
Gladstone and contrasted him and his
labors in the Church with Pope Pius IX.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club gave a
reception to Mr. Crawford at the Bee Hive
House—the residence of Hon. Spencer
Clawson—from 3 to 6 p. m. on Tuesday,
March 22. The parlors were prettily ar-
ranged for the occasion and Miss Claire
Clawson in her sweet, amiable way made
the ladies of the club more than welcome.
Dr. R. B. Pratt, E. B. Wells and Susa Y.
Gates took charge of the introductions and
presented the callers to Mr. Crawford, the
guest of honor, who was most gracious and
affable, conversing with ease and freedom
to each one present with a dignified con-
geniality that won praise and admira-

[Column 2]
tion from all hearts. A little good
music, Prof. Cornelius Schettler on the gui-
tar, and some fine selections on the piano.
Miss Carol Cannon sang in her best and
sweetest style, “Because,” and Lulu Gates
in her childlike way with rich pathos ren-
dered three choice songs, a Florentine song
by Benjamin Goddard “The Dream” and
“The Garden of Sleep.” The guests were
about a hundred and fifty in number and
included Col. Kent and wife, Lieut. Gurney,
Mrs. Cabaniss, Mrs. Tayman of the Fort
and Mrs. Patterson of Cleveland, a guest at
the Fort, President Angus M. Cannon,
Elder C. W. Penrose, Dr. M. Hughes Can-
non State Senator, Mrs. W. F. Nelden,
Mrs. John McVicker, Mrs. Robert Walker,
Mrs. W. C. Jennings, Mrs. Arthur Brown,
Mrs. John Q. Cannon, Mrs. Cornelius
Schettler, Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth and
Miss Julia Farnsworth, Mrs. A. W. Mc-
Cune and Miss Fay McCune, Prof. Mar-
shall and wife, Mrs. Evelyn Y. Davis,
Miss Emeline and Miss Lyde Wells, Mrs.
A. E. Hyde and Miss Laura Hyde, Mrs.
R. K. Thomas, Mrs. M. Salmon of Omaha,
Mrs. K. Verran of Michigan Mrs. S. Clay-
ton of this city, and many others.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Saturday afternoon a meeting was
held in Spring City, Sister Mary Frantzen
presiding. Bishop Allred was present and
made some remarks after the sisters had all
spoken, expressing great interest in the Re-
lief Society and the Latter-day work as a
whole.
	MADAME MOUNTFORD who visited Utah
during the last year and gave her original
entertainments in several places and spoke
in the large Tabernacle in this city on the
Sunday before her departure for the East,
after visiting Toronto, Canada, New York
City and London, sailed from Marseilles on
the steamer “Midnight Sun,” going via
Sicily, Athens, Constantinople, the Holy
Land, Egypt and Malta. No word has
been received of her plans while absent that
we are aware of; she is registered as an
eminent lecturer along with several divines
and professors.
	PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG and
Sister Emily S. Richards of this city went
to Ogden and attended the Relief Society
conference of Weber Stake held on Thurs-
day, March 10, in that city, Sister Jane S.
Richards presiding. There was a goodly
attendance from various parts of the county
and an excellent spirit manifest. The
work in that Stake seems to be rapidly pro-
gressing and the deepest interest is appar-
ent in all the gatherings.
	THE Relief Society conference of Sanpete
Stake was held in Ephraim on Friday,
March 11th and on Saturday morning,
March 12, President Mary A. Hyde presid-
ing. Visitors from this city were Sisters
E. B. Wells and Annie T. Hyde. President
Canute Peterson attended the three sessions
of the conference and President J. T. D.
McAllister was present at the morning ses-
sion on Friday. There were sisters from
most of the settlements in the country, not-
withstanding the cold, stormy weather.
At Ephraim we attended a meeting of the
Primary Association and were much grati-
fied with the interesting program and beau-
tiful children assembled. The young girls 
in charge seemed to love their work and to


[Column 1]
have been successful in gaining the love of
the children.
	A VERY pleasant social was given in the
14th ward Assembly hall in honor of
Brother Ezra Stevenson on the evening of
the 24th of March, previous to his depart-
ure for New Zealand, this being his second
mission to that far off land. Appreciating
his faithfulness in the performance of his
duties, the members of the ward and his
many friends united in the effort to show
their great esteem for him. Hirini Whanuga, 
the Maori chief and family lent their pre-
sence for the occasion. The room was
tastefully decorated with ferns and banners,
the one at the head of the hall bearing the
inscription, “Long live our Superinten-
dent,” another at the side reading, “Your
many friends wish you God speed on your
journey.” An excellent program was
rendered, after which refreshments were
served by the young ladies. All felt to say
“God bless Brother Ezra Stevenson.”
	UTAH has been favored of late with visits
from Governors of other states; the Govern-
or of Utah of whom the people are justly
proud, has had an opportunity to extend
hospitality and welcome to these distinguish-
ed visitors,and maintain the hospitable char-
acter Utah has always been credited with in
the past. Governor Adams and wife of 
Colorado and Governor Richards and wife
of Wyoming were in Salt Lake City at the
same time’ and it was fully expected that
Governor Stonenberg of Idaho would join
the party here, but he did not come. A
dinner at the Alta Club for the Governors
their friends and colleagues, and a lunch-
eon at Col. Clayton’s for the ladies of the
party and other local ladies was a part of
the program of entertainment, a trip to 
Saltair and a reception at the Knutsford
were also features of their sojourn.
	MORE recently still Governor Hastings of
the great state of Pennsylvania, accompan-
ed by his wife and daughter and District
Attorney McCormick wife and daughter,al-
so Senator Cochran wife and daughter, who
had been touring in the West, paid Salt 
Lake City a brief visit and were shown the
principal interesting places etc. The
Governor and his staff escorted the party to
the Tabernacle, the President’s office where
they met Presidents Woodruff and Can-
non of the L. D. S. Church, and to Fort
Douglas where they were welcomed with
military honors and music, also a trip to
Saltair, Col. Kent and party joining with the
Governor and his staff and Attorney General
Bishop with invited guests from the city,
making quite a pleasant party. Col. Kent
kindly furnished musicians from the Fort
which added much to the enjoyment of the
party while at the pavilion, and made the
trip still more interesting.
	ON Sunday evening and Monday
morning meetings were held in Fairview
though the weather was most unfavorable,
yet the people came in large numbers.
At Fairview we were delighted to meet once 
more Sister Mary A. Pitchforth who has 
presided over the Relief Society there from
its first organization. She is very greatly
beloved; at present she is very feeble and
looks frail, but her courage is sublime and
her faith in the work is firm and steadfast.
At Fairview we met with two young men
from the city who were traveling on busi-
ness Elders Melvin D. Wells and Brigham
T. Cannon, the latter just home recently

[Column 2]
from a mission to Germany. They attended
the Relief Society meeting on Sunday eve-
ning and bore a good testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. During the trip all
around President M. A. Hyde, who is near-
ly eighty-two years of age, kept up wonder-
fully and seemed equal to the responsibili-
ties resting upon her in her office and call-
ing; in fact she seemed to improve as we
traveled from place to place.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CALIFORNIA MISSION.

Dear Editor:
	THE 10th of February being the anniver-
sary of the marriage of President and Mrs.
Nye, the Relief Society tendered them a
dinner at the Mission house. Eighty peo-
ple were seated at the tables which were
laden with all the good things one could de-
sire. The guests were waited on by Miss
Lilly Boedefeld, Miss Flossie Sarll, Miss
Adle Boedefeld Miss Edith Sarll and Miss
Florence Rawlinson, young ladies of the
branch. They were kept busy nearly three
hours and in a most gracious manner waited
upon all who came.
	Many investigators hearing of the event
came to do honor to Brother and Sister Nye
who are ever ready to help in the cause of
truth, one would have thought he was in
Utah to look down the long banqueting
table and see so many well known Utah
people, among whom were Brother Lorin
Farr of Ogden, Don C. Musser, Sister Mary
J. Young and son Briant Young; also Willie
Mackintosh of Salt Lake and many other
former residents of Utah, and ten Elders
laboring in San Francisco and vicinity help-
ed to swell the number
	Sister M. A. Rattenberry, president of
the Relief Society, made a speech while the
guests were still seated at the table, in her
well known and pleasing style. The other
officers, Sisters Sewell, Simpkin, Sarll and
Woodward, followed in neat little speeches
full of loving words to Sister Nye, who
labors with them so faithfully to help in the
mission work in California. The evening
was spent in vocal music and recitations
by members of the branch, and a most en-
joyable time was spent.
	The Relief Society is progressing and the
sisters feel that God is blessing their work.
IDA M. SARLL, Sec.
San Francisco, March 17, 1898.


U.W. P. C.

THE ladies of the U. W. P. C. met as
per adjournment at the “Woman’s Ex-
ponent” office Monday, March 6, 1898.
The president. Dr. R. B. Pratt, being ab-
sent the vice-president, Mrs. R. H. Doolan,
occupied the chair. Prayer was offered by
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze. The roll call was re-
sponded to by quotations from Madame De
Stael. Dr. Orielle Curtis was appointed by
unanimous vote critic for the year.
	Under unfinished business the by-laws of
the club were read and discussion thereon
followed. Mrs. E. B. Wells moved that
Miss Laura Hyde be alternate director in
the State Federation of Utah Woman’s
Clubs, Mrs. L. S. Dickinson being director.
Motion carried.
	The question of issuing receipts for mem-
bership was also presented by Mrs. E. B.
Wells and left over as unfinished business.
She then drew the club’s attention to the
George Washington Association, stating


that Margaret A. Caine had advanced in be-
half of the U. W. P. C. five dollars for
identification as a charter member. A dis-
cussion on ways and means followed and
the question was left as unfinished business.
	The secretary read a letter from the cor-
responding secretary of the Woman’s Club
inviting the appointment or a representative
to meet with them in general council for
discussing important questions of general
interest. Dr. Orielle Curtis nominated
Ruth M. Fox and the motion was carried.
	A letter was read from the acting chair-
man of the U. W. P. C. soliciting donation
of one dollar towards establishing traveling
libraries Motion agreeable to invitation
was carried.
	Mrs. Lawler was admitted as a member
and began the evening’s program with a
charming paper on France. Mrs. Rachel
Miller read one equally as interesting on
Noted Men of France. Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox
gave a delightful short talk on Noted Wo-
men of France. The program was announc-
ed for next meeting, the minutes were read
and with one correction accepted, and the
club adjourned for one month.
Program for next, meeting: Paper on
Spain, Phebe C. Young; Cuba, Dr.
Orielle Curtis; Portugal, Emily S.
Richards. Poem, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
Quotations from Spanlsh authors.

M. A. J. LAMBERT, Sec.


TO SISTER L. M. HART.

THE souvenirs presented you
	This day, cannot express
Our loving appreciation
	Of your works of righteousness.
We’ve labored with you many years,
	And proved you ever true,
When you engaged to do a work,
	That you would surely do.

How many times we’ve listened
	To counsels you have given,
To Zion’s daughters to be pure,
	And make on earth a heaven. 
You have taught us age to honor,
	To our dear mothers kind,
That on the earth no other,
	Like mother could we find.

’Tis not alone by precept,
	You’ve pointed out the way,
But by your own example,
	Consistent day by day.
Refinement and intelligence,
	We know that you possess,
And that you seek for wisdom,
	In truth and holliness.

Our martyred Prophet taught the Saints
	That they must knowledge gain,
For they could not in ignorance,
	Eternal life obtain.
And you’re among the faithful,
	Who prize the talents given,
And thus prepare by faith and prayer.
	To dwell with Saints in heaven.

Oftimes have we been welcomed
	Into your pleasant home,
Where rays of lively sunshine.
	Upon our hearts would come.
You’ve been kind unto the orphan,
	You’ve clothed and fed the poor,
And for your acts of kindness,
	God bless you, evermore.


You’ve passed through many trials,
	As all God’s people do;
But He has given strength and power,
	To bravely battle through.
May you have strength sufficient,
	To help you to the end,
Is the prayer most humbly offered,
	For you,our worthy friend.
NANCY ALLRED.
Bloomington, Idaho.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REEIEF SOCIETY ENTERTAINMENT

	ON Feb. 22 an entertainment was given
in the 8th ward under the auspices of the
Relief Society in honor of the president,
Catharine K. Palmer, to which all the adult
members of the ward were invited. There
was an excellent program under the direc-
tion of J. M. Chamberlain. The Bishop
and his counselors were present, also sever-
al who were once members of the ward.
Refreshments were served and a very en-
joyable time was spent.
			ABBY A. PIGGOTT, Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Saturday Feb. 19, 1898, President M.
I. Horne presiding. Singing “O say what
is truth.” Prayer by Counselor E. Webb.
Singing “How will the Saints rejoice to
tell.” Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted.
	President Horne quoted the saying of the
Savior that “If ye are not one ye are not
mine.” She thought the Saints should all
be united in everything they attempt to do
and said we all had a portion of the Spirit
of God, that we brought it with us when
we left the Lord’s presence: it was this that
prompted us to do any good thing and it
remained with us whether we used it to do
good or not. Said it took bravery to be a
Latter-day Saint for we had much to over-
come, but when we kept His command-
ments no good thing either in heaven or on
earth would be witheld from us. She felt
we were indeed a blessed people. In a little
company recently where President Woodruff
was present she heard him say that we
should strive to do the works of Latter-day
Saints, that we would not fall by the way-
side, Urged those present to do those
works and talked very plainly to the Saints.
	Sister Annie O. Brown said she felt it
was necessary to do the works of God, and
knew we should feel like brothers and sis-
ters to one another. The Gospel was every-
thing to her, bore a strong testimony and
felt that this was all she lived for.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder referred to the ter-
rible things happening in the world of
which we read, also of the signs of the times.
She felt we could not help asking ourselves
the question “Will we be able to stand the
test?” We could only trust in God; when
we were in trouble it was then He was the
nearest to us. Spoke of the condition of the
world today, said that people scarcely had
any faith in one another and very little in
God; they feared greatly something but did
not know what; knew this was one of the
signs of the times.
	Sister Carlhurst bore her testimony to
the truth of tithing, and told how by pay-
ing her tithing she was greatly blest.
	Sister Margaret P. Young said she en-
joyed these meetings and the sweet spirit

[Column 2]
that always attended the meetings of the
Saints She realized that God had been
good to her and had ever had a watch-care
over her. She had never felt like drawing
away from Him. Spoke of the life and
works of Elder Erastus Snow. He lived at
her father’s home for some time, had en-
joyed the Gospel then very much as also
now. Said she did not care to be the one
to say she had never had a trial.
	Sister Cottrell said she thought we should
not speak of trials when we were permitted
to come here and attend these meetings and
enjoy the sweet spirit which was here.
She had been reading about some of the
ancient martyrs who had been so cruelly
persecuted for their religion, and could not
help thinking what a blessed people we
were that we could enjoy our religion to
the extent we did; bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Barrow said there was qot a day
when she did not thank God for the bless-
ings she enjoyed and wondered how any
one could doubt, especially when we could
see the prophecies of the prophets of God
being so rapidly fulfilled. Prayed the Lord
to bless our aged sisters, that they might be
spared to us for many years yet to instruct
and encourage us.
	Sister Rawlings said she had been very
ill but was healed by the power of faith, for
which she was very grateful. A sister in
the congregation also bore her testimony to
the power of healing.
	Sister Barnes felt thankful for our dear
aged sisters, Sister Horne and others, who
had been such a blessing and comfort to us.
Spoke of her native country Scotland, said
she loved it, yet she was glad to leave it to
come to Zion. Singing “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.”
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt we had had a
treat in listening to the beautiful testi-
monies of the sisters, and knew we were
strengthened by this. She thought with
Sister Horne that the Spirit of the Lord was
being poured out upon the sisters, and al-
luded to the signs of the times, felt there
was a very eventful time before us. The
mothers should be careful what they said
before their children, that their faith
might not be weakened but strengthened.
Prayed that we might not make much of
our trials but put our trust in God.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she thought we
should learn to sift ourselves and throw out
the chaff. Spoke on humility and the
signs of the times. Said we must not for-
get our God or He would forget us. When
we get discouraged just throw off the humor
and rest and then with the help of the Lord
we would go on again refreshed.
	Sister Mary Silver said she felt glad that
she was a Latter-day Saint, and she was also
glad and proud that we had a sister like
Sister Horne to help and advise us. Said
we never knew her to tell us anything that
was not true, and spoke on the word of
wisdom, knew there was peace for those
who practiced it.
	Sister Hannah Wright thought it was
good to devote a little of our time to meet-
ings, said the more time we gave to the
Lord the better it was for us, there was no
enjoyment like serving the Lord. She had
heard Brother Woodruff say, “How very
few of the millions that are in the world
have embraced the Gospel and how few of
the Saints are really living their religion.”
She felt pleased and grateful to see so many
here. Said sometimes she wished the Gos-
pel had come to her earlier in life, but was

[Column 3]
consoled by having a brother say to her
that it came in just the right time.
	Singing “Be it my only wisdom here.”
President Horne had been reminded to-
day of a saying of Sister Eliza R. Snow that
“a good meeting was like a picnic where
each one brought something different that
was good.” It was so with the testimonies
this afternoon. Said when this building
would not hold all who came, we would
gladly adjourn to the Assembly hall.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing
“Satan’s empire long has flourished.”
Benediction by Dr. E. S. Barney.

	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Saturday, March 5, 1898, President
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “Jesus the
Giver.” Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wil-
cox. Singing “Where the voice of friend-
ship’s heard.” Minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted.
	President Horne requested the sisters to
be more united in their votes, she would like
to see every hand raised when a vote was
taken. Spoke strongly on fault finding,
especially with our brethren and the author-
ities, said the Lord was not pleased with us
when this was the case and urged the sis-
ters to unite their forces to quell this. Said
that there was nothing would give us the
joy that knowing we had served the Lord
would, and that there would be a place in
our Father’s kingdom for us. Fault find-
ing was not serving the Lord, neither does
it bring us peace or pleasure; it was the
humble and the meek who had the Spirit
of the Lord. She regretted that some of
our young people were married outside the
Temple. Knew this was a day of choosing
as well as warning, spoke strongly on the
signs of the times.
	Sister Holling knew by the minutes that
we must have had a beautiful meeting last
time, and felt the older she grew the strong-
er was her desire to serve the Lord.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she had been fifty-
four years in learning obedience, that if we
lived right we were entitled to the prompt-
ings of the Holy Spirit. Asked how many
had had their Patriarchial blessings and
urged those who did not have them to get
them; said that they would be a source of
comfort. Spoke on the signs of the times,
also on young people being married right.
	A sister from Cache Valley said she felt
impressed to bear her testimony. She was
glad to see Sister Zina D. H. Young here,
and felt to say God bless her. Said many
times had she put her hands upon her head
and blessed her, also had heard her speak in
tongues many times.
	Singing “You are called to labor.” Sis-
ter Margaret P. Young said she never re-
membered of doubting the truth of the Gos-
pel, she had always been a teacher in the
Relief Society and enjoyed her labors.
Sister Mary A. Hardy felt thankful for the
good women whom we had in our midst,
	Sisters Young and Horne, to comfort and
advise us. We knew the Lord was not
pleased with us when we indulged in fault-
finding and evil speaking against the Lord’s
anointed.
	President Zina D. H. Young said that
while looking around on the faces of her
sisters she was reminded of the Savior’s
words, that those who feared the Lord met
often together and spoke one to another,
“And they will be mine when I come to
make up my jewels.” “Just think of it


my sisters, by coming here and bearing our
testimonies and speaking one to another we
can be His. It is a simple thing to do but
means much.” Said she felt sorry for any
woman who spoke against the revelations
of God. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.”
	Sister Elizabeth Eangton said she knew
the Spirit of the Lord was in this meeting
in great abundance, she had been greatly
blessed by the Lord, had been enabled to
send money to her husband who was on a
mission and also to gather a great amount
of genealogy. Said she had been forty
years in the Church, and felt greatly blest
in being able to say this.
	Sister Emma Nunn said she and her little
girl had both been very sick but had been
healed by the power of God. Had prom-
ised the Lord she would speak of His good-
ness to her this afternoon.
	Sister McMaster bore her testimony, felt
if she went away without doing this she
would be condemned. Spoke of her Relief
Society work and how she enjoyed it. She
knew it was the work of God.
	Sister Sarah Phelps made some beautiful
remarks, also spoke in tongues.
	Sister Derrick spoke of her recent be-
reavement in the death of her husband, and
alluded to his many virtues. Told how
suddenly he was taken, that he was almost
changed in the twinkling of an eye bore a
strong testimony. 
	A sister in the congregation said she was
thankful that we had a place like
this where we could meet together and sing
and pray and comfort one another.
	President Horne felt the meeting had
been very enjoyable. Gave out the notice
of Stake conference two weeks from today.
	Adjourned for four weeks. Singing
“This God is the God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Counselor E. Webb.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

SISTER AGNES M’ARTHUR WHITE.

	Sister McArthur White, daughter of James and
Elizabeth McA thur, was born May 13, 1842, was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints November 1857 and emigrated to Utah
in 1859. She was married to Stephen White in
Salt Lake City on November 1, 1859, and lived in
Mill Creek ward until the spring of 1868 w en she
moved to Willard where she resided until her
death on Feb uary 4, 1898.
	Sister White was a teacher in the Relief Society
of Willard and a counselor in the North District
Primary Association, also a teacher in the
Sunday Schoo . She was a faithfu  Latter-day
Saint and was loved and respected by all who
knew her. She eaves a kind husband and eight
children, four sons and four daughters to mourn
her loss.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenl  Fa her has seen fit to
take from our midst one of our sisters, be it
	RESOLVED, That we the officers and members of
the Relief Society of Willard and of the Primary
Association of North District do extend our heart-
felt sympathy to the bereaved family in this their
hour of sorrow, and that we ever cherish her
memory. 
	RESOLVED, Tha  a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of the Relief Society, one
presented to the bereaved family and one sent to
the “Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
				BETHIAH F. WELLS, Sec.

	HANNAH CHAPMAN RAYMOND
	Died at Soda Springs, Idaho, Feb. 15, 1898, of
paralysis, Hannah Chapman Raymond. Deceased
was born at Crowle, England, March 2, 1813, and
would have been eighty-five years old had she
lived two weeks longer She joined the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in England
and emigrated to Utah in 1856, coming across the


plains in the first train of handcarts and belonging
to Brother Ellsworth’s company; she was known
at that time as Sister Goodworth, and traveled a
widow with four children, only one of whom sur-
vives her, viz.,Mrs. Ann Ashby, wife of Benj. Ash-
by of Woods Cross, Utah, who was an invalid at
that time   Deceased was left a widow four times
during her life and has suffered great oss in her
family, being the mother of thirteen children of
whom four only are liv ng, viz. Mrs. Frances
Clark, Crowle, England; Mrs. Ann Ashby, Wood’s
Cross, Utah; Mr William Chester and Mrs. Alice
Cambell, Soda Springs, Idaho. Deceased has
enjoyed particularly good health for ten years un-
til her last sickness, and has kept her own house
d ing most of her own work, until her eyesight
began to fail and some of her grandchildren lived
with her until about two years ago, when she re-
moved to the house of her daughter, Mrs Cam-
bell, where she died.
	She experienced a circumstance which was, no
doubt, miraculous, in connection with the dedica-
tion of of the Temple at Salt Lake. It was a
cherished wish of her’s that she might live to see
the completion of that building, and as the time
drew near her eyesight began to get so poor that
she was unable to see with the aid of glasses.
She attended the services, however, and when
she arrived at the Temple er eyesight was so far
restored that she dis inctly saw all objec s around
her, and after she returned to her daughter’s
home at Wood’s Cross she was able to read a
newspaper and thread a needle without the aid of
glasses. This blessing lasted only for a short
time, but her wish that she might see the Temple
was gratified
	She was president of the Relief Society of Soda
Springs ward for fifteen years, when she was
hono ably released on account of her old a e in
June 1896. She leaves many grandchildren,
great grandchildren, and one little great great
grandchild, the daughter of Cyrus and Emma
Page, of Bountiful Utah, besides a large number
of friends both in and out of the Church to
mourn her loss, for she was a friend to all.
[COM.]


[Column 1]
R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

ST. JOHN’S STAKE.
	Minutes of the St. Johns Stake Primary con-
ference held Feb. 28, 1898, President Emma
B. Coleman presiding. After singing pray-
er was offered by our young brother, Oscar
Freeman. Sister Coleman made same good
and appropriate opening remarks. after
which a short program was rendered con-
sisting of songs, music, recitations and our
paper read by the editor, Ethel Farr.
	Short reports were given by presidents or
representatives of the different wards, every
ward in the Stake being represented. The
statistical report was read and the officers
sustained.
	Sister Cornelia Horne Clayton of Provo,
Utah, then addressed the congregation
in a very interesting manner, giving good
and timely instruction and sang the chil-
dren a song.
	President D. K. Udall spoke for a short
time, followed by Celia Hamblin. After
singing, benediction was pronounced by
young Revel Jarvis.
	SARAH H. CROSBY, Sec. pro tem.
MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
at the Society hall Dec. 16, 1897, President
Mabel Ann Hakes presiding assisted by her
counselors, Lizzie A. McDonald and Sarah
M. Johnson, President C. R. Hakes and
other sisters Meeting was opened by the
usual exercises. Statistical and financial
report for the year ending Dec. 16, 1897,
was read and accepted. All the wards were
represented showing a good spirit prevail-
ing in our midst and the Saints generally
alive to their duties. The topics dwelt up-
on were the fostering of home industries,
storing grain etc., and a more strict observ-

[Column 2]
ance of the laws of God. A number of the
sisters bore testimonies, and all felt to re-
joice in the great work of the last days.
	President C. R. Hakes exhorted the
Saints to awake and make the warfare
against a spirit of evil and iniquity stronger
and harder until we should have helped to
redeem the inhabitants of the earth.
	Many good seeds were sown in the hearts
of those present, and all felt blest in coming
ttogether in this meeting. Adjourned fo
hree months. Benediction by President
Hakes.
			F. E. ROBSON, Sec.
PAROWAN STAKE.
	ON February 11, 1898, the sisters of the
several branches comprising the Parowan
Stake Relief Society held their seventieth
quarterly conference in the ward Tabernacle
of Cedar City. The weather being un-
favorable the attendance was not so large as
it otherwise might have been. The five
wards comprising the Stake organizations
were represented as progressing favorably:
The work of gathering grain for the time of
need is being systematically carried on by
the sisters, the Stake having 1,480 bushels
and 30 pounds on hand at the present time.
	The instructions during our meeting were
principally exhorting parents, mothers es-
pecially, to train their children in their
youth in the principles of the work we as
Latter-day Saints are engaged in, for the
impressions made in childhood are never
forgotten. We should impress upon our
little ones the necessity of prayer and teach,
them to have faith in the Lord. The sub-
jects of intemperance and the word of wis-
dom were also spoken upon.
	As is customary at our conferences, Stake
President U. T. Jones with his counselors,
Francis Webster and Henry Leigh, and
several other brethren were in attendance
and by request a number of them addressed
the congregation, their good counsel being
duly appreciated by all present.
	The business attended to during the con-
ference was the reading of reports and sus-
taining of local officers. Sister Ann E.
Webster was sustained as first counselor to
Stake President Mary Ann Lunt, thereby
filling the vacancy caused by the death of
Sister Sage T. Jones. Sister Webster acted
in the capacity of president of the Cedar Re-
lief Society from 1886 to 1897, when she
was honorably released, her successor
being Ann A. Thorley with Mary A. Arm-
strong and Lucy M. Jones first and second
counselors.
	During the past year quite a number of
the sisters belonging to the Cedar Society
have been called away by the hand of death
and their presence and their words of
counsel are alike missed. In January two
members, Margaret Unthank and Margaret
Froyd, both faithful good workers in our
Society every ready to assist and for a
number of years acting as teachers, depart-
ed from us, also Sister Amanda Rollo,
another good, faithful member soon follow-
ed. Death is inevitable, hence the necessity
of living not for ourselves alone but by do-
ing good whenever we have the opportuni-
ty, if only by a kind word.
	Conference was adjourned to meet at
Paragoonah in three months.
	J. P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
NOTTINGHAM, ENGLAND.
	At the request of our president, Sister
Sarah Barber, and also the members of this


[Column 1]
the Nottingham branch Relief Society, I
pen these few lines to you thinking perhaps
you would like to know how the Lord’s
vineyard is getting along here.
	Sister Barber desired me to tell you of a
social gathering we had at our meeting in
this the new year, which was held at the
home of our president. We had a very en-
joyable time all the evening. All the
members of the Relief Society were present,
also a few non-members. After supper
some of the sisters rendered some good
songs and speeches. A good spirit pre-
vailed throughout and we all felt a renewed
determination to help each other as well as
the poor, and to do all we could to promul-
gate the Gospel.
	It would perhaps interest you to know
that a great many of the members in the
summer go out with the Elders and help
them in the singing, and their labors are
bearing fruit already. We have quite a
few investigators in the branch, some who are
going to be baptized at the first opportunity.
We have very good meetings on Sundays
and a goodly portion of the Holy Spirit is
always present.
	I will close praying that the Spirit of the
Lord will always be with us to guide us in-
to the path of purity and right.
				Your sister in the Gospel
				EDITH CABLE, Sec. R. S.
	February 19, 1898.
RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED. 
	Minutes of 21st ward Relief Society held
in the Society hall Feb. 3, 1898. Meeting
opened by singing “Come let us anew.”
Prayer by Brother James Maxwell. Sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion.” Counselor Martha B. Taylor pre-
sided.
	Elder L. John Nuttall offered some pre-
liminary remarks relative to the object and
purpose of the organization of the Relief
Society as contemplated by the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and referred to the manner
of keeping accounts so as to consume as lit-
tle time as possible when assembled together
in meeting. Said while the distribution
of donations was an important part. still
there were higher motives and objects to be
attained by meeting together. We should
have lectures in the Society and endeavor to
use the time profitably, other than a few
bearing practically the same testimony over
and over again.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne, president of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake, made
some very excellent remarks relative to the
purpose and organization of the Relief Soci-
ety, and said that the young as well as the
elderly people should associate themselves
with the Society.
	Bishop M. S. Woolley said he was
pleased to meet with the sisters this after-
noon, and that the Society was a great as-
sistance to the Bishops in caring for the
poor and encouraged all to go on with the
work.
	Sister Ann O. Burt tendered her resigna-
tion as president and director of the 21st
ward Relief Society, the same was read by
Bishop M. S. Woolley. On motion the resig-
nation was unanimously accepted. On
motion Sister Frances L. Castleton was
elected a director of the Society.
	Bishop M. S. Woolley read the resigna-
tion of Sister Annie M. Reynolds as director
and secretary of the Society, which was un-
animously accepted. On motion Sister
Mary A. Tuddenham was elected a director.
	Sister Jane Mulholland tendered her

[Column 2]
verbal resignation as director and treasurer.
On motion the resignation was unanimously
accepted. On motion Sister Helen V.
Lyon was elected a director.
	The following names were suggested by
Bishop M. S. Woolley: Eliza Barton as
president; Martha B. Taylor as first counsel-
or; Frances L. Castleton as second counsel-
or; Mary A. Tuddenham as secretary;
Helen V. Lyon as treasurer. On motion
the above named persons were unanimous-
ly sustained.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde spoke relative to
the mission and organization of the Soci-
ety as contemplated by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and solciited the attendance of the
younger and middle aged women at the
meetings. Made mention of the fact that
Sister Eliza R. Snow was about thirty-
eight years of age when the Society was or-
ganized by the prophet.
	President Joseph E. Taylor said he had
been invited by the Bishop to attend this
meeting as there was contemplated changes
in the Society, and feeling an interest in all
the branches was present. He had been
called upon on several occasions to adjust
differences that existed between the Bishop
and officers of some branches of the Relief
Society. Thought the sisters should be
given all the liberty possible io magnify
their office. The sisters in return should
gather the strength of the Priesthood and
be in harmony with the Bishop and counsel-
ors of the ward. Cautioned the sisters in
their meetings relative to the gift of tongues
and thought we should confine ourselves
within the proper limits and seek for the
Spirit of God in our gatherings.
	Counselor H. J. Foulger referred to the
past labors of Sister Ann O Burt as presi-
dent, the difficulties the sisters met with
when first organized, and the means em-
ployed by her and Sister Allen in raising a
store on the block to benefit the Society.
Moved that a hearty vote of thanks be
tendered her for her past labors, and that
the blessing of the Almighty might rest up-
on her.
	A vote of thanks was also tendered Sis-
ters Reynolds and Mulholland for their
past efficient labors in the Society, all of
which were unanimous. The Doxology
was sung and meeting closed with benedic-
tion by Bishop M. S. Woolley.
	Meeting at the residence of Sister Eliza
Barton at 5.30 p. m. Sister Barton through
illness was unable to attend the meeting at
the Society hall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WOMAN'S office building is to be erect-
ed in St. Louis. The offices will be rented
to business women or to people having busi-
ness with women.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
Teaches two classes yearly in Ob.
stetrics and Nursing, beginning just
after the spring and fall Conference
Special opportunities and prices are
given to Societies sending students,
and also to those who have had
previous study.
	For full particulars please com-
municate either personally or by
letter with
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D
75 Center Street, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts. 
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

CONFERENCE RATES
VIA
Rio Grande Western Railway.
	For the Annual Conference, L. D. S., and
Woman’s Conference, L. D. S., at Salt Lake City,
April 6th to 9th, inclusive, the usual half rates and
arrangements have been put into effect via the Rio
Grande Western Railway.
	TICKETS will be sold on following dates: From
Ogden, Park City, Bingham, Springville, Silver
City and intermediate points, from April 5th to 9th,
inclusive; tickets limited to April 15th, 1898. From
all other points April 4th to 8th, inclusive; tickets
limited to April 18th, 1898, except Grand Junction,
Fruita and Cisco, at which points tickets are on
sale only on April 5th, limited to date of sale on
going trip, with final limit April 18th.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1898.


CONTENTS:

	Notice to Those Interested in Silk Culture in
Utah—Margaret A. Caine. How to Build a Gran-
ary on Nothing—Julia A Pace. A Rambling
Letter—Grandma. Mrs. E. B. Wells—Lydia D.
Alder. General Relief Society Conference—E. B.
Wells. U W. P. C.—M. A. J. Lambert. A Birth-
day Party—Sarah A. Robison. Same Reminiscen-
ces. R. S. Reports. In Memoriam. Utah His-
torical Society. Clara Barton Arrives. The War
Question. The Cleofan—Clara T. Felt. A
Dream—Eugenie Ceophas.
	EDITORIAL:—The April Conference. “No Man
Knoweth.” Editorial No es.
	POETRY:—Springtime—Augusta Joyce Crocher-
on. Life’s Pilgrimage—Ellis R. Shipp. Sleep
Well Brave Heart—Ma y Lowe Dickinson.


For the Exponent.
SPRINGTIME.

AH! my love, come here.
Winter's breaking spring is waking,
Hark! a lark sings clear;
From the lakes the flocks are taking
Flight to northward, and I hear
’Neath the ice the ripples making
Music to the ear.
Soon the green will sprin[-],
Where the snow lay shall be pathway,
Sweet with blossoming;
From the glens a chorus ringing,
Will bear outward and away,
Message sweet in echoes singing
Of the coming May.
And the days shall gain 
Each one faire, bringing rarer 
Gifts than flowers that throw
Perfume to the winds, their bearer;
Colors, odors, changing so
Into gifts to each glad sharer—
Autumn’s harvests show.
So, for human hearts
From beginning, still is winging 
Where each lifeway starts,
From Above (sweeter than singing)
Flight to earthward—nothing parts  
Or can turn the angel, bringing
Help to waiting hearts. 
And a voice calls “Here.”
Earth-bands breaking, joy is waking—
Hark!  the song draws near—
From the death-clasp souls are taking
Flight up heavenward and they hear
O'er earth’s mourners angels making,
Welcomes sweet and clear. 
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Salt Lake City, March 31, 1898.


[Column 1]
LIFE’S PILGRIMAGE. 
‘Is life worth the living?” the millionaire said,
As he rose in the morn from his soft, downy bed,
In his palace of grandeur surrounded by wealth, 
And all that could add to his comfort or health–
Yet he oft-times exclaims “Is life worth the liv-
	ing?”
“Is life worth the living?” the laborer asks
As he trudges along to his wearisome tasks,
The beauties of nature spread out to his sight,
He is blind to these charms: he feels no delight,
And says in his soul “Life’s not worth the living.”

[Column 2]
“Is life worth the living?” the poor pauper cries—
With cravings of hunger and deep smothered 
	sighs,
So little to cheer him, so many desires, 
Neglected and weary he often inquires—
Poor broken spirit! “Is life worth the living?”

“Is life worth the living?” the epicure yawns,
While the sycophant near him insipidly fawns
With satiated tastes and o’er-clouded brains,
They drink and carouse, on their ill-gotten gains,
Ah, well one may ask “Are such lives worth
	living?”

‘Life’s not worth the living,” the pessamist thinks,
As he finds to what depths humanity sinks,
The dark, cloudy side is all that he sees, 
Pain, sickness and sorrow and mental disease,
So sagely concludes “Life’s not worth the liv-
	ing.”

“But life is worth living,” the optimist writes,
Every hour is giving the sweetest delights,
this beautiful world! has its sunshine and 
	flowers;
And science and truth are increasing the powers
Of brain, heart and soul: True! life’s worth the
	living.”

“This world is so pretty!” the little child lisps,
As she smells the new hay and plays with its 
	wisps,
The songs of the birds, and flowers are sweet,
And the green grass is cool and soft for my feet,
While God up in Heaven these blessings is giv-
	ing.”

“Life is worth living!” the youth now exclaims,
As he thinks of the future and makes lofty aims;
“I’ll try to be good and noble and great,
Prove faithful and true to my second estate, 
And make the world better because of my living.”

“Life is worth living!” says the maiden in bliss,
As she bends her fair head for her lover’s first
	kiss.
“The earth is o’er spread with roseate hue,
The world is all love, the sky is so blue!
And ne’er did life seem so much worth the
	living!”

“Life is worth living!” says husband and wife, 
As they walk hand in hand the journey of life; 
“We’ll share every sorrow and joy as they come,
We will try to bring sunshine into our home, 
And rear sons and daughters worthy of living.”

“Yes life is worth living!" the mother replies, 
As she looks in the depths of her baby’s brown 
	eyes.
“I must polish this jewel and make it so bright 
That ’twill shine to the world with radiant light,
And make all men feel that life is worth living.”

‘Life is worth living!” are the words that he gave
As he tottered so near to the brink of the grave. 
“I’ve lived ninety years, seen life’s ups and downs,
But with all of its turmoil, its cares and its frowns
I continue to think that life is worth living.”

Ah, live’s worth the living! though drear it of
	seems,
And our seasons of joy are like fast fleeling
	dreams.
The infinite bliss of a being on earth;
With the exquisite hope of a Celestial birth!
Help us bear all its cares and make life worth
	the living. 

[Column 3]
“Yes life is worth living," the Christian declares
“With all of its trials, its sins and its snares,
For through stern experience wisdom is gained, 
A triumph o’er self and the world is obtained, 
And mankind are secured a life everlasting.”
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


NOTICE TO THOSE INTERESTED IN
        SILK CULTURE IN UTAH.
   THE Utah Silk Commission desires to
call attention to the fact that the time for
raising silk is again upon us, and we trust
that those who intend entering upon the
work this year will write to us at once for
eggs. Those who are taking up the work
for the first time will kindly state the num-
ber and size of the trees from which they
can obtain leaves; also the number of per-
sons who can give their time during the
latter period of the raising season, so that
we will be able to send the necessary
amount of eggs.
   We also desire to state that eggs can be
obtained from the Commission free, and we
would prefer everyone who is going to
raise the worms to have seed from us as we
provide a quality which gives a much bet-
ter result than those raised by people hav-
ing little or no experience. We will send
pamphlet of instruction free to those wish-
ing any information upon the subject.
   We trust that many people throughout
the State have already planted numbers of
mulberry trees, and have been watchful lest
any of those which have grown are in dan-
ger of being destroyed. We also wish to
say to those who have trees and do not care
to use them, that they may do a great deal
towards establishing this important industry
by allowing others to use the leaves, and
we assure you that it will only benefit the
trees, even if they are stripped several times
they will soon become much more thrifty,
and this will also be a means of disposing
of the fruit which is sometimes an annoy-
ance, especially when trees are planted on
the street.
   As a whole the Commission feels very
much encouraged with the result of last
year’s work, and trust it will be very much
increased this year. Address all communi-
cations to
		MARGARET A. CAINE,
	Secretary Utah Silk Commission.
				Salt Lake City Utah.


FRANCES WILLARD wrote to her friend
Mrs. Bain of Kentucky, who had just lost a
daughter: "Dear sister Ann, how much
richer are you than I! Here I sit alone
without a child to die, while you are moth-
er to an angel."
THE principal women thus far mentioned
as candidates for the presidency of the Gen-
eral Federation of Women’s Clubs, to suc-
ceed Mrs. Henrotin, are Mrs. Alice Ives
Breed, of Massachusetts; Mrs. Sarah S.
Platt, of Colorado; Mrs. William Tod
Helmuth, of New York; Mrs. Edwin
Longstreth, of Pennsylvania, and Mrs.
Susan Riley Ashley, of Colorado.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[column 1]
HOW TO BUILD A GRANARY ON
NOTHING.

	THE St. George Relief Society was in a
quandary. Conference had closed and for
the thousandth time the subject of the stor-
ing of grain had been discussed. But this
time the Spirit had seemed more urgent
than ever before. With an omnious war-
cloud hanging over our very heads; with
tales of suffering and starvation of the most
appaling nature in various parts of our little
earth being brought to us daily; with late
frosts nipping the tender buds of our fruit
trees right at home, the theme refused to be
folded away in its accustomed napkin to
await the regular quarterly resurrection.
There it hovered, outlined in bold relief
against a background of foretold want and
misery and refused to be downed. 
	But what was to be done? An inventory
of the resources of the Society revealed half
a dozen patch-work quilts, some finished,
others in course of construction; a few pairs
of partly finished stockings and socks, a lim-
ited quantity of carpet rags, and a very
small amount of credit at the various indus-
trial and manufacturing concerns of the
country.
	“But we’ve got to have a granary,” said
the officers. “There is no getting around
it. It haunts us night and day, and we
cannot afford to have our health ruined by
insomnia,” so they put their heads to-
gether. The result was a committee.
What that committee was about was for a
time a secret. But it finally leaked out that
we were to have a “Bee.” It was not to
be a rag bee or a quilting, but a “Bee” to
which all our husbands and brothers and
sons were to be invited. They were not to
sip tea and knit socks for Sam, Dick and
Harry, but were to bring themselves, their
wagons and teams, gather the material and
build a granary.
	A day was set, and such a response! At
least one hundred and seventy-five men an
boys, with twenty-five good teams and 
wagons made lively times in the vicinity of
the Lyceum. There being a great many
more than could be utilized on the granary
a brigade was organized to clear up the
streets and renovate crossings, etc., and
another to devote themselves to fixing up
the Tabernacle grounds. Such a spirit of
unity and good feeling as prevailed among
them is seldom witnessed. Every one
seemed desirous of doing somebody else a
good turn, and seemed the happier when-
ever a slight circumstance or accident rend-
ered assistance necessary.
	During this time the ladies of the popu-
lace were not idle, as the following very
tempting menu will testify. As one of the
committee remarked, “We seated one hun-
dred and fifty men at dinner, and fed the
five thousand in the evening.” “And did
you gather up ten basketsfull after the
feast?” I asked. “I really believe we did,”
was the reply.
	Menu: Chickens roasted and boiled,
sixteen; baked beans, sixteen pans; toma-
toes, ten quarts; bread, forty-six loaves;
butter, twenty pounds; salmon, three cans;
eggs fried, thirty dozen; rice puddings,
seven; beef, three large joints; ham, three
large dishes; potatoes, thirty pounds; pick-
les, eight quarts; milk, eight quarts; sugar,
twenty-five pounds; pies, one hundred and
ten; cakes, fifty-four; fruits, thirty-two
quarts; tarts ad infinitum.
	In addition to the above, various articles
were given in which could not be used at

[Column 2]
the time, but which will come in useful
in the future. Quite a little sum was
also realized in cash, store pay, tithing pay
and factory pay, all of which will assist in
the good work.
	Now as to the labor accomplished:
Masonry about				$115,00.
Rock hauling, 96 perches		57.50.
Clay, 10 loads					5.00.
Sand						12.00.

Total work on granary			$189.50.
	In addition to the above thirty-five loads
of shale were hauled into the Tabernacle
yard, nearly as many more at street cross-
ings and a number of loads of rock for the
new school building in course of construc-
tion. All this, with the good work of the
street crossing committee would foot up a
grand total, could we arrive at the exact
figures.
	An entertainment was tendered the gen-
tlemen, their wives and sweethearts, in the
evening in the theatre. A nice program
was rendered, tempting refreshments served
after which the remainder of the time was
spent pleasantly in dancing.
	Dear Aunt Em and the readers of the
“Exponent” pardon this long contribution.
I have given the particulars thus in detail
in the hope that it might inspire some
others having similiar desires, but a deficien-
cy of the wherewithal, to go forth and do
likewise, with this example of successful
effort before them.
	Our granary will have a capacity of two
thousand bushels, and we expect to have it
ready to receive the wheat at harvest time.
Our success has made us bold, and we will
be pardoned for asserting that we do not
anticipate any trouble in getting grain to
put into it.
	We trust that the end and aim of this
communication may speedily be realized in
learning of some other struggling Society
making an effort in this necessary direction.
			JULIA A. PACE, Cor. Sec.
	St. George Stake.


A RAMBLING LETTER.

	WINTER is beginning to wane and the
farmers are commencing to prepare for seed
time. The school land is in the market,
and our friends and relatives are coming
here to make their homes and fortunes in
this land of “Uncle Sam.” The boom-
ers land is all that seems to be lying idle
now; perhaps when all the rest is improved
this will sell to someone who needs a home.
	We had a good attendance at our Relief
Society conference, which was held at Idaho
Falls on the 13th of last month. The house
was comfortably filled, especially in the
afternoon, although it was blowing a
very keen wind from the south. The new
meeting house is a very nice edifice and
does credit to the ward. I hope we will be
as successful at Willow Creek. We received
some good instructions from the presidency
of the Stake, also from Sister Bennett and
counselors, our lady presidency of the Stake
of Bingham. Our young people are looking
forward to a treat, their conference coming
on the 16th of this month. We are very
proud of this Association. Our officers both
of the Stake and of the ward are efficient in
their abilities and energy. We parents are
glad to see the young people growing up to
be useful and trying to learn the principles
of the Gospel, which they do when they

[Column 2]
are interested in their Mutual Improvement
Associations. We rejoice that we are in
possession of a religion that will make a
happy people.
	The District Court is in session at this
time, and as usual divorces are being called
for and granted. It is alarming, I think,
that so many divorces seem to be needed.
I hope that our young people will, and I
believe they do, appreciate the plain counsel
they are getting; truly the ax is being laid
at the root of the tree. I believe one cause
why so much petty jealousy and unpleasant-
ness arises in so many families commences
through lack of confidence in one another;
and why this lack of confidence ? If we
would trace it back sometimes we would find
it was because of undue liberty before mar-
riage; and therefore lack of confidence in
one another leads to disrespect and disre-
spect to hate, hence the only way they can
see out is to get divorced, and often this is
“jumping out of the frying pan into the
fire.”
	Are we profiting by the many sermons
we hear? A woman who was born in the
Church but had married into an apostate
family, said to me one day that she could
see little difference in church going people
or in their children who attended Sabbath
School, and those who did not; she failed to
see any difference in those who prayed or
those that were taught to pray, and those
who did not. Her children, she said, were
just as good as anybody’s, and they did not
pray. I told her that we who attended
meetings and prayed did not profess to be
perfect., that the Church was a school and
some of us are very dull and slow to learn
it is true, and profit very little by attending
meetings perhaps; but there are two natures
in mankind, human and divine: “To err is
human; to forgive divine.” Those who
pray cultivate the divine nature, they can
forgive. I said to her “You are not happy
when you treasure up some trifle which
you imagine is so bad that a neighbor or
neighbor’s child has done or said. You
may sometimes forgive one who believes as
you do, but one who is trying to be a Saint
you cannot forgive, you do not seek the
spirit of forgiveness.” She said, “Well I
am satisfied, I would not have my children
blessed nor baptized, because I will not
allow religion to interfere when their father
does not believe in it. He is a good pro-
vider and that is all I want.” “Well,” I
said, “we will not enjoy this life always
and we must prepare for an eternity. I
want my children to go to Sabbath School,
also to be baptized and confirmed, that they
may be able to cultivate, if they are dili-
gent, the higher nature, this is the object,
I believe, of all religious meetings whether
of individuals, associations, Sabbath School
meetings or meetings of worship; they are
for the cultivation of our higher natures. If
the partakers of all these benefits are not
any better for them it is not the fault of the
Church nor the teachers in the Church, but
those who are idle.”
	That we may still work for the building
up of the kingdom is the desire of
						GRANDMA.
	Willow Creek, Bingham, Idaho.


"EMPRESS AUGUSTA VICTORIA, of Ger-
many, found 144 German servant girls last
year to whom she could give the golden
servants’ cross for having lived forty years
with one family. Only one was found in
Berlin”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


I HEARD the gentle murmur
   Of voices strange and sweet;
And the indistinct low music 
   Of hosts of marching feet.
And then I heard the murmur
   Of a thousand voices say;
“All hail sweet sacred morning!
   Rejoice! ’tis Easter day?
Awake! awake, O nature!
   O joy-bells loudly ring!
Awake for Christ is risen,
   And praise is due our King”
			ELIZABETH A. VORE.


SLEEP WELL BRAVE HEART.

	[Written while Mrs. Dickinson sat by the side
of Miss Willard’s casket Monday, Feb 21, 1898.]
SLEEP well, brave heart, beloved of Christ and
	crowned,
		He gives thee sleep.
The wide world’s love enwraps thy slumber round,
		God gives thee sleep.
His angels smile; His stricken children weep;
Yet smiles, nor tears, shall break thy blessed
	sleep.
Oh, wondrous face! whose mystic, solemn grace
		O’er-floods the gloom,
Till grief—in all this sorrow-haunted place—
		No more finds room.
Show us, dear God, what glory greets her eyes,
Let us, too, hear the voice that bids her rise.
Chide not our tears! So weak we are and blind,
		Yet she would share 
Her gladness with us who are left behind.
		Heed Thou our prayer!
Not yet. Not yet? Tarries the vision still?
Then, grant us, Lord—with her—to love Thy will
To work Thy will, to follow where she trod, 
		Without a fear;
To drink her cup; to climb the heights of God
		Knowing her near;
To make her joy more joyful by our strife.
So may we share even here her glorious life.
So may our homes, our land in shame so long, 
		Be cleansed from wrong;
So may our breaking hearts through love be 
	strong,
		Through love be strong.
Bless still, through us, earth’s sinning and op-
	pressed.
Thy work rests not, dear heart. Take thou the
	rest.
			MARY LOWE DICKINSON,
—Union Signal


[Column 1]
MRS. E. B. WELLS.

Published by request.
	THE pleasing duty has been assigned to
me to write a few thoughts of my esteemed 
friend Mrs. E. B. Wells. Behold this gather-
ing! Women associated in two clubs, the
Press and the Reapers, whose organizer she
is. Here are women of intelligence, poets, 
writers and thinkers, whose common aim is
to elevate themselves, to understand and
further develop the God given talents given
to them.
	On each one she bestows personal care
and encouragement. Each one can tell of
many times when by her counsel she has
been strengthened, and the resolution
formed to make another effort.
	Editor of the “Exponent” for many
years, her words are read the world over.
Its columns are open to the women of Utah
irrespective of nationality or creed. Being
the organ of the Relief Society one of the larg-
est organizations of women in the world,

[Column 2]
Mrs. Wells its secretary—the labor per-
formed by the women of Mormondom is
outlined. All may read the page. The
publication referred to is an advocate of the
principles of truth. Gems of thought both
prose and poetry adorn it.
	This noble woman after spending a life-
time in aiding the poor, relieving their dis-
tress and speaking the comforting word to
those bowed down in sorrow, at the age of
seventy years gives to the world her book
of choice poems.
	“Musings and Memories” just issued
from the press is the crowning effort of her
life. It is replete with beautiful thoughts,
spun in threads of light and sparkling with
rare intelligence. Many of the poems con-
tain sublime pathos combined with sweet
simplicity. I will mention “At Last.”

“There must be something we desire to gain,
	A recompense for pacing to and fro,
Some sweet fruition which we would obtain,
	Or greater wisdom that we fain would know.
And this is why we toil on and endure—
	Do battle ’mid life’s trials, storms and strife,
Because we feel that there is something sure
	That we shall find, within a higher life.”

	Thoughts reaching out to the majesty on
high in “Meditation.”

“My soul has gone forth in its wandering, 
	To the hills that are purple with light;
Those temples that tower everlasting,
	In their majesty, grandeur and might.

But the life giving means is the marvel,
	The mystery, past knowledge and skill;
No man can the secret unravel;
	It abideth in God at His will.”

	Whisperings of a pre-existence is awak-
ened in “Shadows and Whisperings.”

“I sometimes think I must have lived before,
	In a much brighter fairer world than this;
That I have stepped from that enchanted shore,
	As though I woke from out a dream of bliss,
Where soft hands lingered in a fond caress
	Upon my head, to soothe me and to bless.”

	A life beyond the grave is shadowed in
“Thoughts and Memories of a Summer
Hour.”

“Tears fall and mingle with the pearly dew,
	And flowers spring up afresh where all was drear;
And something whispers of a life more true,
	Where perfect love will reign devoid of fear.”

	Comforting words to the weary heart,
faint unto weeping and worn with many
prayers, are sung to the “Bereaved Mother.”

E’en if weary and broken hearted,
	With that which thou deemest loss;
Although from the dearest ones parted,
	He will help thee bear thy cross;
And if the ordeal seems cruel,
	The Father will make it right,
And the brighter thy precious jewel,
	Will shine in the realms of light.”

	The beauties of nature are extolled. One
thinks of the beautiful earth clothed in ver-
dure, arrayed in flowers, with singing
birds, oceans grand and forest shades.

“O, how we yearn to understand still more
	The mysteries that nature has concealed;
The knowledge of her science—hidden lore,
	Which unto none of us has been revealed.
Nor will it be till we have proved how true
	Our trust has been in what we came to do.”

	How sweet is sympathy! a slender gold-
en chain it links suffering hearts together.
Tears of sorrow touched the Master’s heart 

[Column 3]
whose chords vibrated at sight of human
woe, and Jesus wept. From “Sorrow and
Sympathy.”

“And as we do to others, in their need,
	Loving our neighbor as the Savior taught;
Then we are sowing broadcast precious seed,
	And we shall reap a harvest where we’ve
	wrought;
For if our faith fail not and we endure,
Then all our Father’s promises are sure.” 

	Love the best thing in the world, all
powerful, everlasting and enduring in
“Autumnal Musings.”

“The harp strings may be shattered,
And the rose leaves may be scattered,
	But the memory still remaineth;
And the love that we have cherished,
And the hope that we have nourished,
	The immortal soul retaineth.”

	How beautiful are spiritual thoughts!
So near to the gates of glory that stray
beams shine through the golden bars, and
mingling with the perfumed air, strains of
softest melody float over the purple hills of
Paradise. They soothe the aching heart
and throbbing brain. O, just over there is
a “Home Immortal.”

“No more weeping, no more sighing,
	No more agonizing fears;
And no requiem for the dying;
	Chanted ’mid the falling tears.

Sweetest strains of music ringing,
	Echo through the wide domain,
Choirs of heavenly voices singing,
	“Nevermore to part again.’”

	Some lives go out in glory. Like the
sun blazing as it sinks below the horizon,
casting its reflection far over the heavens of
burning ships heaving and tossing, flaming
chariots moving slowly along and seas of
somber blue bordered by fleecy clouds edged
with gleams of gold. The mountains catch
the radiance, and high up their sides wide
valleys appear, even deep ravines are gilded
by the grand effulgence of the sun’s last
gorgeous rays.
	Well may this, our friend, feel proud of
her life’s work, and many will rise up and
call her blessed. On history’s page her
name is written in letters of gold.
	May her heart be comforted, her head
rest lightly on her pillow, her beautiful faith
in God our Father constantly increase.
	Mrs. Wells, accept the love and congratu-
lations of your friends, who join in wishing
you many happy returns of your natal day,
and in saying “The world is better for
your having lived in it.”
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


MRS. MANNING, of Albany, N. Y., the
new president of the National Society of
the Daughters of the American Revolution,
was born Mary Margaretta Fryer, and her
ancestors on her father’s side were Dutch.
On her mother’s side she goes back to
Robert Livingston, first Lord of the manor
of Livingston, to whom was given the or-
iginal grant. Among her more famous an-
cestors are Philip Livings’on, the second
lord; Col. Peter R. Livingston, Governor
Rip Van Dam, Abraham de Peyster. Olaff
Stevenson Van Courtlandt and Col. Peter
Schuyler. Her late husband, Daniel Man-
ning, was secretary of the treasury during
Cleveland’s first administration. Mrs.
Manning entertained with much grace dur-
ing her residence in Washington, and her
house in Albany, is one of the stateliest in
that city.						Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one me, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY APRIL 15, 1898.


THE APRIL CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Church
which commenced on April 6, and closed
its session on April 10, Sunday afternoon,
was one of the best, if not the very best
conference ever held in this valley. The
Spirit of God was specially manifest to all
who were present and the teachings and in-
struction given were received with joy and
gladness by the assembled multitudes. Cer-
tainly the Saints were fed with the bread of
life.
	The music and singing was of the most
exalted character, uplifting to the soul and
in harmony with the entire spirit that pre-
vailed throughout these sacred gatherings,
for it was indeed like a continued Sabbath
	The testimonies of prophets and apostles
were powerful and impressive and must
carry conviction of truth and earnestness to
the hearts of those who listened to the
words of divine inspiration.
	President Woodruff at the advanced age
of ninety-one years standing in the great
congregation and bearing testimony day
after day and time after time was a wonder-
ful manifestation of spiritual power, in that
he not only was able to make the people
hear in that great edifice, but his ideas were
more clearly and forcibly presented than
ever, if that were possible. The last after-
noon of the Sabbath day was so rich in in-
spirational teaching applicable to the times
and condition of the people, that one could
not but feel vividly the presence of heaven-
ly beings, even though they may not
have been seen by mortal eyes. Certainly
the power of the Holy Ghost was percept-
ble to thousands of witnesses.


"NO MAN KNOWETH."

	IN the midst of the excitement that pre-
vails not only in the United States and the
Congress thereof but elsewhere throughout
many foreign countries, one cannot help
feeling how uncertain the near future is to
the world of mankind. At one moment
war seems imminent and perhaps inevitable
then there seems a lull and a tendency to-
wards peace negotiations, and before quiet
can settle more news comes of commotion
and turmoil and more outrages in Cuba,
and it would indeed seem "the world is
turning upside down," if not quite turned.
Any one with a prophetic nature must be
forcibly reminded of predictions concerning
the war that have been foretold would take
place in the last days, and also calamities of


various kinds, and therefore those who be-
lieve these things are watching carefully
the signs of the times and are praying
earnestly that the Lord will over-rule all
things according to His divine will and to
further His purposes in the earth.
	It is ardently to be desired that the Lat-
ter day Saints follow the counsel of the ser-
vants of the Lord in all these matters and
surely the counsel given at the recent con-
ference ought to be a guide to those who
are anxious to keep the commandments of 
God. The Saints know that they shoul
refrain from all evil and wicked thoughts
and desires, but if called to go to battle for
their country they would undoubtedly be
as ready to stand by the stars and stripes as
any men in the United States. The “Mor-
mon” people have never been accused of cow-
ardice, and they have proved in times past
that the call of their country should be
obeyed whatever might be the circumstanc
es, as in the call when the Nauvoo battalion
was fitted out at a time of great emergency
when traveling from Nauvoo across the
country five hundred men left their famil-
ies homeless, to go to Mexico. This event
has passed into history. But for the sake of
humanity it is to be hoped that peace will
spread her white wings over the country
and that under the shadow of her wings
Cuba may find refuge from war and blood-
shed, famine and disease and all the attend-
ant evils that follow a relentless and blood-
thirsty foe. 
	Yet no man knoweth what shall be the
consequence of these uprisings, and the ex-
citement that prevails at the present time
and will not seemingly be settled by arbi-
tration or armistice.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MADAME MOUNTFORD has arrived at
Jerusalem and is at present quartered at
the Howard Hotel. She says in her mes-
sage to the writer, March 24, that she has
not forgotten Zion and desires to be remem-
bered to all inquiring friends.
	THE Welsh prize singers gave their con-
cert in the large Tabernacle early in the
month. Judging from current opinions the
affair was a greal musical success. It seems
to be quite popular to give concerts, lectures
and such like entertainments in the great
“Mormon” Tabernacle.
	MME. MELBA and her grand opera com-
pany arrived in the city last night and will
appear in the large Tabernacle tonight. The
Tabernacle choir will also take part in the
concert to be given. Mme. Melba is an
Australian and takes her stage name from
the city of Melbourne where she was born.
Her bird-like voice has made her famous the
world over. Of her personality or history
very little seems to be known by local peo-
ple in Salt Lake City.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY
CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, Tuesday, April 5, 1898. Meeting
commenced at 10 a. m. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Her counselors, Jane S.
Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith were
present, also the secretary, E. B. Wells, and
treasurer, M. Isabella Horne and a number

[Column 2]
of Stake presidents of  the organization.
Meeting opened by singing. “How firm a
foundation.” Prayer by President F. A.
Hammond of San Juan Stake. Singing
“Praise to the man” etc.
	President Zina D. H. Young made an
address of loving welcome to the sisters,
referred to the first organization of the Soci-
ety and stated that many prophecies uttered
then had already come to pass, which gave
us courage to believe that other predictions
would be literally fulfilled. She felt proud
of the daughters of Zion, reminded the con-
gregation that example was better than
precept; we had been blest abundantly
both spiritually and temporally, she thought
if Zion was to be the joy of the whole
world the sisters must have part in it, for a
great part of the world were females. She 
would like to hear the reports of those from
a distance.
	The secretary called the roll of Stakes
and twenty-seven responded. Minutes of
the October conference read and approved.
	President Jane S. Richards was glad we
could assemble in peace and love and medi-
tate on things spiritual when there was so
much stir in the world and talk of war and
so many changes taking place around us,
yet we had no confusion and could rejoice
in the Gospel and try to serve the Lord.
She often wondered if we were living to ob-
tain the promises made to those who were
true and faithful and sought to keep the
commandments given to the Saints. Ex-
horted mothers to be full of love and chari-
ty and kindness, referred to happiness in
the home, what a beautiful thing it was to
look back upon, and for herself it was a
great pleasure to recall her home with her
father and mother. Speaking of kind words
she recalled when she was coming out of
Nauvoo there was a brother who used to
speak kind words to her, when she was
very sick and felt as if she had more than
she could bear, it was a very great comfort
to her. Sister Richards urged the sisters to
pray for and sustain the president of the
Relief Society, Sister Zina D. H. Young,
“who needs your faith and who has not been
very well of late, and may we as sisters be
able to do all that will be for our salvation is
my prayer.”
	Sister B. W. Smith after some preliminary
remarks said we had come here to keep our
second estate if we can keep every command-
ment, observe the laws and regulations of
our holy religion, we should be kind and
good and encourage each other, setting
good examples and putting away the love
of riches and lay up treasures where moth
and rust doth not corrupt. Sister Smith
stated her time was mostly spent in the
Temple, she did not go out much to speak
to the sisters but met a great many in the
Temple constantly and she loved them.
“We know this work is true, we must try
and attend to our prayers, be patient and
just, set our minds to do something worthy.
We used to have Brother Joseph to teach
us, he said on one occasion he would not be
with us long and in his prayer at that time
his voice shook.” She would be glad to see
every Society have a house of its own, dedi-
cated on purpose, the brethren ought to as-
sist us, we have helped them so much, we
should have unison in all these things. “It
would be well if our children could realize
what we have passed through for the Gos-
pel, and the Gospel will be more to us than
riches that we may obtain what we desire,
that we may have homes to receive those


who are in need—there will be calamities
and war and famine and sickness, may
every blessing rest upon us in the name of
the Lord, amen.” 
	President M. A. Hyde, Sanpete Stake,
said “I don’t blame the sisters for being
diffident in standing up here, it is hard for
me. I will speak my feelings about a
house, and then when we come from all
parts of the State that there will be a re-
sponse all around. I attended conference
at Ephraim—Sisters Wells and Annie T.
Hyde were with us—the sisters in that
Stake are very industrious and devise many
ways and means to help build up the Soci-
ety.,’ Sister Hyde felt greatly exercised
about the youth of Zion, spoke of some
painful circumstances, the adversary is
evidently doing his part and we should do
ours; rejoiced that there were so many
present and hoped ere long we might meet
in our own house. Sister Hyde then spoke
a few words in the gift of tongues interpret-
ed by Sister Zina D. H. Young.
	President F. A. Hammond of San Juan
Stake, represented the Relief Society in the
unavoidable absence of the president: in the
course of his remarks he said, “I make it a
rule of my life to attend the conferences of
the Church and have always been blest in
attending. I don’t believe I ever have lost
a cent by coming.” Spoke well of the Re-
lief Society in his Stake, felt that the Soci-
ety was one of the strongest helps that the
Bishops had, the sisters not only pour in
the oil and the wine when any thing is
wanted but in other ways are helpful. “I
have been a strong advocate for the sisters
these many years, I take pleasure in their
labors, I have looked forward to the time
when the sisters would be sent on missions,
Sister Jennie Brimhall and Sister Lulu
Knight have been set apart and are now on
their way to England, our sisters will be
sent off to the nations of the earth and they
should have a knowledge for themselves.
I have advocated the education of our girls,
for this reason I am in favor of Church
schools. Speaking of a house for our sis-
ters I feel it is a proper thing, and it should
be a house dedicated for the purpose, there
is not a ward or Stake house where the sis-
ters have not aided; the Bishops throughout
Zion should help build a house for the Re-
lief Society. Sisters my faith is you will
succeed, a house where the general author-
ities would hold and arrange the affairs of
the Society. I feel to bless Aunt Zina and
her counselors, I have known them for
years, this is my prayer in the name of
Jesus.”
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
President M. Isabella Horne.
				E. B. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	THE ladies of the U. W. P. C. met ac-
cording to adjournment Thursday evening,
March 31, 1898. Club was called to order
by President Romania B. Pratt. Prayer by 
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder. Roll call with re-
sponse from Spanish authors. Under un-
finished business the question of issuing re-
ceipts for membership fees was discussed.
A motion in its favor by Mrs. Emily S.
Richards wascarried. A motion was made
and carried that the club subscribe
$5.00 from the treasury for charter mem-
bership in the George Washington Memor-
ial Association, was carried.


In the General Council of Woman’s Clubs
the Press Club was given the appointment
of secretary from its membership. A letter
was read from Ruth M. Fox contain
ing a statement to that effect and a motion
by Mrs. E. B. Wells was carried to the ef-
fect that President Pratt make the appoint-
ment after time for deliberation.
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder read an invitation
given by the Inqueires Club to the Press
Club to attend a lecture by Rev. Alfred
Henry, to be given Monday April 4th, at
2:30 p. m. at the M. E. Church. In behalf
of the club Mrs. Alder accepted the invita-
tion by letter.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells proposed the following
names for acceptance as honorary members:
Mrs. Emily H.Woodmansee, Mrs. Maria Mil-
ler Johnson and Mrs. Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. Motion was seconded and car-
ried.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards then read a very
ably written paper on Portugal followad by
Mrs. E. B. Wells with a beautiful poem “Is
life worth the living?” written by Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp. A short and interesting sketch
of Spain was given in a well written paper
by Mrs. Phebe C. Young. Dr. Orielle Curtis
dealt with Cuba in written words, glowing,
stirring and eloquent.
	Program presented for April 30, as fol-
lows: Paper on Frances E. Willard, E. B.
Wells; Zolo the French author, Helen V.
Kimball; Poem, Lydia D. Alder; Alfred
Austin, England’s Poet Laureate, Edith
Lovsey; sentiments from noted American
women.
	Critics report given, minutes of meeting
read and approved and dismissed with prayer.
	At the close of the meeting a
a dainty lunch was served through the hos-
pitable courtesy of President R. B. Pratt
and Mrs. E. B. Wells, and a social half
hour was agreeably spent.
			M. A. J. LAMBERT, Sec.


A BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	MARCH 4, was the birthday of Sister
Sarah S. Forsyth, second counselor to Sis-
ter Jane S. Coleman, president of the Relief
Society of the Wayne Stake of Zion. And
inasmuch as Sister Forsyth expected to move
away from among us, and her labors in the
Society had been very earnest, a birthday
surprise was gotten up for her at the resi-
dence of Sister Margaret J. Taylor, presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Loa ward.
Many of her friends there expressed to her
their appreciation of her labors among the
sick, and the kindness and love she had
shown to the poor and oppressed.
	An excellent dinner was served, after
partaking of which presents were made us
mementoes and keepsakes. Songs and
hymns were sung, and many strong testi-
monies were borne to the truth of the Gos-
pel, and in behalf of Sister Forsyth, kind and
loving speeches were made and her chari-
table works, kind deeds and devotion to
the truth were spoken of. Among the
many who were present were Sister Lucinda
Brown, the oldest inhabitant of Loa Ward,
Margaret Pace and Nancy Blackburn, who
have also passed through the early trials of
the Latter-day Saints. “When shall we all
meet again” was sung to close with, and the
following verses were prepared and presented
to Sister Sarah Forsyth. 
	Tis forty-six years since the day of thy birth,
	Thy spirit untarnished then came to the earth,


To dwell with a people whom God had assigned
The honor of bearing his workto mankind.

Devoted in childhood and faithful in youth,
Your footsteps have trod in the pathway of truth
With hand ever ready the weakest to guide,
As they drifted along on life’s billowy tide.

Your voice has been raised in the conflict of right,
In sunshine of day and darkness of night,
Most freely you’ve striven earth’s children to
	bless,
In times of rejoicing or deepest distress.

Priceless the seed in this life you sow,
Priceless the fruits thy harvest shall know;
Seeds that will spring forth in glory and might,
In a crown for thy head in the mansions of light.

Thy works all await thee on Heaven’s bright.
	shore,
The blessings of Zion have, too, gone before,
The thanks of the hungry thy hand hath fed,
The prayers of the souls thy counsel hath led.

A crown all unfading, eternal, divine,
Where thorns nevermore with roses will twine;
Where nevermore bitter will mingle with sweet
Nor rough be the path, nor weary the feet.

May you live till God’s people are ransomed and
	free,
Live till the wicked from Zion shall flee,
Till the warfare is ended, the victory won,
Then hear the glad tidings “Thy work is well
	done.”
				SARAH A. ROBISON.


SOME REMINISCENCES,

	[Extracts from a letter of Eliza Clayton
Margetts written from Paris, Idaho.]
	AT the age of ten years I, with my par-
ents, emigrated from England and arrived
at Nauvoo in the fall of 1840. Our family
being large, father was counseled by the
Prophet Joseph to go into the country. We
did so and remained away from Nauvoo un-
til the summer of 1841, when we moved
back on account of the persecutions of mob-
ocrats.
	I have a distinct recollection of hearing
Ruth, wife of William Clayton, talk of the
organization of the Female Relief Society,
on her return home from the meeting at
which said organization took place.
	We moved to Carthage in the fall of 1842,
at which place we lived until after the
martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph and his
brother Hyrum. In the forenoon of the
day on which these atrocious murders were
committed, some of the neighbors disguised
and with painted faces, came to our house
and told mother she had better get out of
the way as they were going to kill the Pro-
phet that day. A terrible storm arose and
in the afternoon we heard the firing of guns
and soon after saw some of the murderers run
away howling like fiends. My sister Lucy
who was at this time living with the jailor’s
family and was at the jail when the shoot-
ing commenced, came home and told what
had happened. The next day I went with
my sister Lucy to the jail, we found the
doors and windows open and everything in
confusion, as though the people had left in
great haste. We went up stairs to the room
in which the Prophet and his brother had
been shot. There was some Church books
on the table and portraits of Joseph’s and
Hyrum’s families on the mantlepiece.
There was blood in pools on the floor and
bespattered on the walls, at sight of which
we were overcome with grief and burst in-
to tears. After becoming somewhat col-


lected, we gathered up what we supposed
belonged to the inmates of the room at the
time of the murder and placed it together
on a trunk that was in the room.
	About three weeks after the massacre of
Joseph and Hyrum we moved back to Nau-
voo. I witnessed the trying scenes the
Saints passed through until they were driv-
en from Nauvoo. I remember a circum-
stance that occurred during what is called
the battle of Nauvoo. While at the well
drawing a bucket of water, a cannon ball
from the enemies’ guns struck the chimney
of the house in which we lived, and so
much frightened me that I got my fingers
fast in the well windlass and in extracting
myself skinned my fingers nearly the whole
length.
	I was among the remnant of the sick and
dying Saints on the banks of the Missis-
sippi after the expulsion, when they were
miraculously fed on quails that alighted in
their midst. When the quails alighted they
lit on our laps and everything around.
After we had caught enough to eat they
flew towards the west like a swarm of bees.
Before this some young men went out into
the woods with their guns to find some
game for their families to eat, and while
they were gone the quail came and had
gone when the got back. They had bad
luck while they were out and killed nothing
and had to come back without anything to
eat for their families, and great was their
joy when they found everybody had plenty
to eat.—Deseret Evening News.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
   .


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

REORGANIZATION.
	I write to inform you of the reorganiza-
tion of the Relief Society of St. John’s
ward, which occurred March 25, 1898.
Anna D. Kempe who had served faithfully
for four years as president, being a widow
and having to work very hard to support
her family felt she was unable to perform
her duty in that position, and therefore
tendered her resignation which was accepted
and she was honorably released. She is a
very energetic woman and is well respected
by the members of the Relief Society as
president, also by the community at large.
	President E. L. S. Udall, Stake president of
the Relief Society being here at the time, a
special meeting was called and President
Udall together with her counselor, Emily
Patterson and the Bishop of the ward, select-
ed the following officers: Margaret Jarvis,
president; Anna L. Anderson, first counsel-
or; Eleanor Patterson, second counselor;
R. B. Berry, secretary; Sina Stradling,
assistant secretary; Sarah Berry, treasurer.
					R. E. BERRY, Sec.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE. 
	The quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society of St. Joseph Stake, Arizona,
convened at Thatcher, March 11, 1898,
Counselor Mary L. Ransom presiding in the
absence of the president, Elizabeth Layton,
who was sustained in that position at the
late reorganization of the Stake, President
Wilmirth East who has filled the office so
long and so well, being honorably released
on account of her advanced age and feeble-
ness.
	After opening exercises and reading of
minutes Counselor Ransom made a few re-
marks. Verbal reports of the several

[Column 2]
branches were given by their representative
presidents or counselors and listened to
with much interest by all present. Visits of
the Stake officers were reported by Counsel-
or Ransom, showing an improvement in all
of the branches of the Society in the Stake,
and a desire to continue in the good work.
She spoke in an interesting and impressive
manner on the duties of officers and mem-
bers of the Relief Society, and closed by
praying the blessings of God might be up-
on all.
	President Andrew Kimball gave excellent
counsel to the sisters, in which he said wo-
men have a great influence and should use
it for good.
	After singing, and prayer by Bishop John
Taylor, conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	At 12:10 the officers met at the residence
of President Elizabeth Layton, receiving
instructions from Counselor Delia Curtis,
President Elizabeth Layton, President Wil-
liam Johnson and President Andrew Kimball.
	At 2 p. m. conference re-convened.
After singing, and prayer by Bishop George
Skinner, statistical and financial reports
were read. The names of the central board
and Stake officers were presented by Coun-
selor Delia Curtis and unanimously sus-
tained, after which she read a selection
from the Millennial Star.
	Stake president of the Primary, Rebecca
Warren, next addressed the conference, with
Annie Yorgan of Mexico, Secretary Salina
Phillips, Patriarch Samuel Claridge, Presi-
dent W. D. Johnson, Bishop Isaac Zundel
and Treasurer E. Allred following with a
recital of such experiences and testimonies
as would tend to strengthen the faith of all
the Latter-day Saints, praying the Lord to
bless us that we might have power in the
land for good. Benediction was pronounced
by Bishop C. B. Boren.
			SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.
SAN JUAN.
	Minutes of the Stake conference of the
Relief Society of San Juan. Conference
convened at Bluff, Feb. 20, 1898, President
Martha Hammond presiding. Opened with
the usual exercises.
	President Martha Hammond said she
hoped the Lord would pour out a goodly
portion of His Spirit upon the sisters that
we might be blessed and built up during
our conference and better qualified for our
labors and duties in the future as wives,
mothers and Relief Society workers. Re-
ported her labors among the different
branches of the society.
	The several branches in the Stake were
reported as follows: President Kisten Neil-
son said the Bluff ward Relief Society was
in good condition, the sisters being on hand
to donate when necessary and trying to im-
prove and advance in all that is good.
	President Norah Hammond said the mem-
bers of the Mancos society attended when
possible, but on account of the settlement
being scattered it was not possible for
mothers with families of small children to
attend regularly in the winter season, and
for the same reason meetings were not al-
ways held regularly. Said she felt blest
and well paid for the sacrifices she had
made to attend the quarterly conference.
	President Mary M. Jones reported the
Monticello society as being on the improve
during the last six months.
	A letter was read from the president of
the Fruitland branch stating that the soci-
ety was in good condition, a good spirit pre-
vailing among the sisters.

[Column 3]
Stake Counselor Mary N. Jones had been
greatly blest in attending our conference.
Said if the instructions that had been given
in regard to the training of children were
remembered and practiced we would have
better communities and better boys and
girls. Counselor Eliza Redd followed in
the same strain as the previous speakers
in regard to the training of children, and
gave some very good instructions on that
subject.
	Sister Delia Lyman said she was glad that
mothers were waking up to a sense of their
duties and seeing the necessity of keeping
their little boys close around them as they
do their little girls; for they learn many evil
things by roaming the streets.
	Elder Adam Peterson, one of the Young
Mens’ M. I. A. missionaries, was the next
speaker. He said he felt that we could not
do without the Relief Society; spoke elo-
quently of the duties of husbands to wives
and of sons to mothers and sisters. He felt
that woman was worthy of much more than
many gave her credit for; to her we were
indebted for the better and finer parts of our
being. Spoke at some length on obedience
to parents and the priesthood.
	The minutes of the previous conference
were read and approved, after which the
General and Stake officers were unanimous-
ly sustained. President F. A. Hammond en-
dorsed the remarks that had been made.
President Martha Hammond made a few
closing remarks, hoped the sisters would
feel blest in coming to conference, even if
they did have to travel over bad roads.
Conference adjourned for three months,
to be held at Fruitland. The choir sang
“Guide us O Thou Great Jehovah,” and 
Bishop Jens Neilson pronounced the bene-
diction. 
				EVELYN ADAMS, Sec.
SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of Sanpete Stake held in Ephraim, March
11, 1898, President M. A. Hyde presiding.
Singing “Come, come ye Saints.” Open-
ing prayer by President Peterson. Singing
“We thank Thee O God for a prophet.” The
following branches were represented: Eph-
raim North ward, Fairview, Mt. Pleasant,
Manti North and South wards, Moroni,
Chester, Ephraim South ward, Mayfield,
Sterling and Freedom. Fountain Green,
Spring City, Milburn, Indianola, Gunnison
and Centerfield were not reported.
	Opening remarks were made by Presi-
dent M. A. Hyde Sister Emmeline B.
Wells spoke at some length upon the neces-
sity of entertaining a spirit of humility and
obedience. Related her impressions when
she first saw the Prophet Joseph.
	President J. D. T. McAllister was the
next speaker. He said he felt that we were
greatly blest in having the privilege of
meeting together, and that we were ac-
quainted with each other before we came
here to prepare for the life to come. Said
the Relief Society was one of the great
helps of the Church and thanked God for it.
Exhorted the sisters to reach out a helping
hand to those who were in affliction, and to
strive to exert a saving influence over those
who were falling by the wayside. Admon-
ished the young people to be pure and
virtuous. Dwelt on the necessity of the
young people of Zion entering the marriage
relation in a proper manner, and invoked
the Divine blessing upon the sisters.
	Singing “Guide Us O, Thou Great Jeho-


[Column 1]
vah.” Benediction by Bishop Anderson.
	Afternoon session. Singing “Now let
us rejoice.” Opening prayer by Brother J.
F. Dorius. President Hyde was pleased
with the reports of the various wards. En-
couraged the storing of grain, and all good
works pertaining to the Relief Society.
	Sister Annie Hyde was pleased to have
another opportunity of meeting with the
sisters of Sanpete, and urged the necessity
of a spirit of love and charity. Said that
the Spirit of the Lord would not dwell
where there was strife and contention. Ex-
horted the mothers to train their children in
the way they should go to become faithful
Latter-day Saints. Also referred to the
Prophet Joseph.
	President M. A. Hyde spoke words of
comfort and blessing to President Peterson
and the sisters in the gift of tongues, which
was interpreted by Sister Wells.
	President Peterson said “We are living in
an interesting age of the world, but the
signs of the times indicate that the end is
near.” Also made some remarks on the
life of the Prophet Elijah.
	Elder Andrew Jensen was the next
speaker. He dwelt upon the duties and re-
sponsibilities of mothers in training the
children when the fathers were absent in
the mission field. Spoke of the danger of
allowing scoffers and unbelievers to associate
with our children, and related a circum-
stance of this kind which had come under
his observation. Eulogized the good
work of the Relief Society.
	“MRS. ANNIE M. BROWN, of Brattleboro,
has been appointed by Attorney General
Griggs as clerk of the United States Attor-
ney’s Department for the district of Ver-
mont. Most of the depositions and other
legal testimony taken stenographically in
Brattleboro and vicinity for some time past
has been taken by Mrs. Brown, and she is
regarded as fully competent.”
	Sister Wells said we should improve in
our duties, but should work on the founda-
tion which has been laid. Paid tribute to
the sterling virtues and good works of Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow and others of the aged
and faithful sisters who have labored so
long. Considered the Relief Society the
greatest organization of women in the
world. Was pleased to state that we had
branches of the Relief Society in Chicago,
California, Holland and Scandinavia. She
spoke of the necessity of encouraging the
silk industry.
	Singing “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by J. F. Dorius.

	SATURDAY MORNING, MARCH 12.

	Opening hymn “Softly beams the sacred
dawning.” Prayer by Prof. Newton Noyes.
	President M. A. Hyde expressed her
pleasure at seeing so many young ladies
present, and urged them to attend the meet-
ings of the Relief Society. Warned them
against the evils that are abroad in the land
and told them to guard their virtue as a
precious gem.
	Stake Counselor Abbie Shoemaker was
also pleased to see the girls. Exhorted the
sisters to greater faith and humility, and
urged them to teach their children the
principles of the Gospel, especially faith.
Said mothers should warn their children
against the temptations that beset the
young.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde was the next
speaker. She referred to the pleasure she
had experienced the day before in visiting
the Primary. Said it was necessary that

[Column 2]
the young ladies attend the meetings of the
Relief Society, and dwelt at some length on
the subject of love and charity as a means
of binding Satan, as he would no longer
have any influence over the Latter-day
Saints. Said there was no dividing line
between the Relief Society and the Young
Ladies, that they were mother and daugh-
ter. Related some incidents which had oc-
cured on President Woodruff’s birthday,
notably a vision which he had seen similar
to that of John the Revelator concerning
the judgments of the last days.
	Stake Counselor A. L. Cox thanked the
young ladies for responding to the invita-
tion to be present; also thanked the various
Relief Society presidents for their prompt-
ness in responding to every call from the
Stake presidency. Compared the faith and
belief of the Latter-day Saints with that of
the different Christian churches, and by
way of illustration referred to a funeral
which she had attended where a Presbyter-
ian minister had officiated. Exhorted the
sisters to renewed diligence in subscribing
for the “Exponent,” that it may have the
necessary support to continue its publication.
	Sister Wells also expressed her pleasure
at meeting with the young ladies. Said
they could not fail to be benefited, and said
that a spirit had manifested itself in
some localities among the young people that
the Relief Society was an old fogy institu-
tion, but that it was an altogether wrong
impression and that the experience of the
older sisters was of great value to the
younger generation, and that the Relief
Society was at the head of all the other
associations. Explained some of the diffi-
culties surrounding the publication of the
“Exponent” unless it was liberally pat-
ronized. Gave some of her experiences in
early Relief Society work, and dwelt upon
the necessity of the Relief Society owning
property and storing grain. Said that it
was very necessary that the sisters pray for
Sister Zina Young as she had great re-
sponsibilities.
	President Hyde blessed the congregation
with a mother’s blessing, and urged the
young sisters to be diligent in the things of
the Gospel.
	President Peterson said he had been more
interested in the teachings of the sisters than
ever, hoped they would come again soon.
Said the sisters had built up the kingdom
as much as the brethren, and the wives of
the missionaries were performing as great a
work as the missionaries themselves. Felt
that he could talk for hours if time would
permit.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by President Peterson.
SOPHIA JENSEN, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

MARTHA PETERSON HOLM:
	Sister Martha Peterson Holm, daughter of
Peter and Mari Ane Christesen, was born March
21, 1849, in Hytter, Denmark. She emigrated to
Utah in 1873, and was married to Andrew Holm
at Salt Lake City Nov 11, 1873 and lived at Lake
Shore where she resided at the time of her death,
March 9, 1898. She was a teacher in the Relief
Society of Lake Shore, a faithful Latter-day Saint
and was loved and respected by all who knew her.
She leaves a kind husband and five children, four
daughters and one son to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
take from our midst one of our sisters, be it
	RESOLVED, That we the officers and members
of the Relief Society of Lake Shore do extend our


heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family in this
their hour of sorrow, and t[-]at we ever cherish
her memory.
	RESOLVED. That a copy of these resolutions be
presented [-]o the bereaved family, one placed on
the records of th[-] Relief Society and one sent to
the “Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
PHILLIS BECKSTROM,
MARY A. JONES,
CHRISTENA HOLM,
Committee.

ESTHER ANN ROLFSON.

	It is with the deepest regret that we are called
upon to record the death of our beloved sister,
Esther Ann Rolfson, who died at her home in
American Fork. Feb. 15, 1898. Sister Rolfson was
born at Savannah, Andrews Co., Missouri, May
1, 1851, her parents were Joseph and Hannah
Pulley. She became the wife of Frank Rolfson by
whom she had four children, three of whom sur-
vive her, two sons and one daughter. Sister
Rolfson was a member of the Relief Society for
many years, and at our last election was chosen
one of the board of directors, and proved herself
worthy of the position. She was always on hand
and willing to do her share of whatever work was
assigned her. She was true and faithful to her
convictions and loyal to the cause she had es-
poused, instructing her children in the truth of
the everlasting Gospel; her family are indeed a
credit to her, for she was a devoted wife and
mother, and although suffering intensely from
that dread disease cancer, she never murmured
but always had a word of counsel and encourag-
ment for her children, and in her intense suffer-
ing had unbounded faith in the administration for
the sick, from which she always received a benefit.
	Her loss will be keen y felt by her beloved
daughter who was untiring in her devotion to her
mother during her long illness. We truly sympa-
thize with the family of Sister Rolfson in their
great loss and trust they will have that comfort
and assistance that can only be found by bowing
in submission to the will of our Heavenly Father.
ELLETHERIA D. ROBINSON,
ELLEN BARRATT,
EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
Committee.


UTAH HiSTORICAL SOCIETY.

	THE following constitute the officers and
board of control of the Utah Historical
Society: Franklin D. Richards, president;
Isabella Cameron Brown, vice-president;
Jerrold R. Letcher, recording secretary;
James T. Hammond, corresponding secre-
tary; Lewis S. Hills, treasurer; Antoinette
B. Kinney, librarian, and Joseph Geoghe-
gan, Electa Bullock, C. C. Goodwin, R. C.
Lund, L. W. Shurtliff, H. W. Lawrence,
G. W. Thatcher, Joseph T. Kingsbury and
John T. Caine.
	The standing committees are:
	Membership—R. W. Young, John Henry
Smith, Emma J. McVicker, H. G. Whit-
ney, and Angus M. Cannon.
	Ways and Means—Henry W. Lawrence,
John E. Dooly, Heber J. Grant, Robert C.
Lund and G. W. Thatcher.
	Printing and Publishing—John T. Caine,
C. C. Goodwin, John Q. Cannon, Alfales
Young and B. F. Cummings Jr.
	Library and Museum—Nat M. Brigham,
Spencer Clawson, Emmeline B. Wells,
George Q. Coray and Chris Diehl.
	Grounds, Buildings and Property—Heber
M. Wells, Robert N. Baskin A. O. Smoot,
Elias A. Smith and Charles R. Savage.
	Lectures, Historical Papers and Address-
es—Joseph T. Kingsbury, Harry C. Hill,
Ellen B. Ferguson, Willard Done and C.
W. Penrose.
	Memorials—O. F. Whitney, Aquilla
Nebeker, Eurithe K. La Barthe, Joseph
Geoghegan and Alexander C. Bishop.
	Special Committee on Historical Jubilee
Relics, etc—John Q. Cannon, Heber M.
Wells, Antoinette B. Kinney, Spencer
Clawson, Edward F. Colborn, Ellen B.
Ferguson, and H. G. Whitney.


272
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CLARA BARTON ARRIVES.

	TAMPA Fla., April 12.—The steamship
Olivette, which arrived here from Havana
brought 250 refugees from Cuba, also Miss
Barton, president of the Red Cross Society
and her staff. Miss Barton said:
	“It is the duty of the Red Cross Society
to follow in the wake of the army rather
than to lead it, and wherever duty calls
there you will find us. In the present in-
stance we simply deemed discretion the
better part of valor. The original treaty of
Geneva provides only for relief in war. The
extensions of the provisions of the treaty
to include other disasters was a special con-
cession made to the American Red Cross
upon its accession to the treaty and known
as the American amendment.
	"The singular coincidence now presents
itself of both provisions of the treaty being
called into action in the same field. The
Red Cross has distributed the food sent by
the people of America to suffering recon-
centrados as long as such action was admis-
sible. Now that war is imminent and our
guns prepared to sweep the island it be-
comes the duty of the Red Cross to retire
from the threatened field and place itself in
position behind the guns and wait.”
	Since arriving here Miss Barton has re-
ceived from prominent men in New York
requests that the society lend its aid to alle-
viate the suffering on the part of the desti-
tute Cuban element of this city. Miss Bar-
ton will have a consultation with the May-
or of the city, which will probably result in
her securing speedier relief for the sufferers.


TWO of Tennyson’s sisters are living, the
youngest in her 81st year.

	THE March number of Jeness Miller's
Monthly pays a warm tribute to the work
of "Jennie June" Croly among the Womens’
Clubs. Mrs. Croly is at work upon a "His-
tory of the Woman’s Club Movement in
America" which is to be published under
the auspices of the General Federation.

	A DATE in mid-September, 1898, will
probably be the day upon which Queen
Wilhelmina of Holland will formally take
the oath of accession to the Dutch throne.
No one could have shown more tact in
managing affairs of State during her daugh-
ter’s minority than the Queen Regent, who
like her sister, the Duchess of Albany, is a
person of singularly unpretentious manners
and simple tastes. This is shown in her
daily habits and surroundings. Her Majes-
ty, for instance, although for more formal
communications she uses thick white writ-
ing paper with the crown and royal coat
of arms emblazoned in gold and scarlet and
blue, uses for everyday familiar letters,
paper merely stamped with her name
"Emma," and a crown. In dress also she
is inclined to simplicity, and she follows, in
preference to leading the fashion.


THE CLEOFAN.

	ON Tuesday, March 26, the Cleofan en-
joyed an Epitome on King Lear by Mrs.
Blanche P. Lee. The character of Cordelia
in comparison with Goneril and Regan by
Mrs. Anna S. Young and Mrs. Lee. Char-
acter of Edmund and Edgar by Mrs. May
P. Moyle. The club adjourned for one
week.
	CLARA T. FELT. Cor. Sec. pro tem.


A DREAM.

	A LO[-]G, long time ago when fairies and
brownies were flourishing there was in this
world a large meeting, and among them
was the fairy Opaline who decided to visit
the earth accompanied by her faithful
brownie, Amethyst. The aim of her trip
was to distribute among women a special
gift for each nationality. Amethyst bore
the casket containing the precious treasure.
On reaching the earth Amethyst issued the
call for a young woman of each nation to
appear before the fairy, and soon the throne
of Opaline was surrounded by a crowd of
women.
	The good fairy explained kindly that her
wish was to bestow upon each a token of
which she might be proud. "I cannot
give to all the same gift," said she, "but
you will appreciate them better, because if
all were uniform they would become mono-
tonous." A few words more and the speech
was ended and the distribution began.
	The first young woman to bow before
the throne of the good fairy was a Spanish
girl, and she received the gift of hair so
black and so long that without difficulty
she could wrap herself therein as in a mantle.
	The Italian came bowing and was given
eyes so sparkling and so ardent as to com-
pare with the eruption of Vesuvius by night.
	A Turkish beauty followed and upon her
was bestowed the roundness of the moon,
and a smoothness like the bird's feathers.
	Next came a Swedish lady and received a
complexion as fair as an Aurora Borealis.
	Then the German girl approached and the
kind fairy gave her teeth as perfect as her
own and gifted her with a sensible heart,
deeply disposed to love.
	To the Russian she gave a queenly bearing.
Afterward came the Persian. Opaline
put gaiety on her lips, wit and common
sense in her head and kindness in her heart.
	The casket being empty the fairy made
ready to fly again to the upper regions,
when a beautiful girl approached blushing
and taking her by her gossamer tunic said,
"Did you forget me, dear fairy, that you
gave me nothing?" The sweet, musical
voice charmed the fairy, who turned and
said kindly, "And who are you?" "I am
the American." "Oh, said Opaline, "you
were too near—I did not see you, and now
I have nothing left to give." But without
a moment's hesitation she ordered Amethyst
to recall those who had been gifted and
when they were assembled she said, "I am
guilty of a great forgetfulness but you can
help me to rectify my mistake. I have en-
tirely forgotten your American sister, and I
will be pleased if each of you will give to
her a portion of your gift. It will be a
small loss for you and will greatly compen-
sate her for the disappointment I have
caused." Well as all were very grateful to
the good fairy they could not refuse, and
with the exquisite grace which ordinarily
all happy people possess, they came one
after another to the American girl and gave,
one some of her splendid hair, another
some roses from her complexion, another
some of her gaiety and brightness; all were
generous, and in conclusion the American,
at first unseen, was by this act of partaking
better gifted than any of her comrades.
	And this is the reason why among all the
civilized nations the American woman
wears on her head the crown of beauty and
in her own country her name is written in
letters of gold in the annals of history.
EUGENIE CLEOPHAS.


Save Your Money!

And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the Establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WlLFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
Teaches two classes yearly in Ob.
stetrics and Nursing, beginning just
after the spring and fall Conference
Special opportunities and prices are
given to Societies sending students,
and also to those who have had
previous study.
	For full particulars please com-
municate either personalty or by
letter with
ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D
75 Center Street, Salt Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. <273>

VOL. 26. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1898. NO. 23.


CONTENTS:
	Daughters of the Revolution—Clarissa L. S.
Williams. Frances Elizabeth Willard—E. B.
Wells. M s. Henrotin's Letter. Ladies' Semi
monthly Meeting—L. D. Alder, Act. Sec. R. S.
Reports. In Memo[-]iam. Ma[-]y R. Goodliffe—
Esther Goodliffe: C[-]ara Barton in Tampa Flor-
ida. A Testimonial—Com.
	EDITORIAL:—Gov. Wel[-]s’s Proclamation, The
War with Spain. Utah Patriotism. Melba's
Concert. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—The Flag Goes By—H. H. Bennett.
Martin Luther—Mary A. Freeze. Hisp[-]nia—Lydia
D. Alder.


THE FLAG GOES BY.
		BY H. H. BENNETT.

	HATS off!
Along the street there comes
A blare of bugles, a ruffle of drums,
A flash of color beneath the sky;
	Hats off!
The flag is passing by!

Blue and crimson and white it shines,
Over the steel-tipped ordered lines.
	Hats off!
The colors before us fly:
But more than the flag is passing by.

 Sea-fights and land-fights grim and great,
Fought to make and to save the State.
Weary marches and sinking ships;
Cheers of victory on dying lips;

Days of plenty and years of peace;
March of a strong land’s swift increase;
Equal justice, right and law,
Stately honor and reverend awe;

Sign of a nation great and strong,
Go ward her people from foreign wrong;
Pride and glory and honor, all
Live in the colors to stand or fall.

	Hats off!
Along the street there comes
A blare of bug'es, a ruffle of drums;
And loyal hearts are beating high:
	Hats off!
The flag is passing by!
				-Youth's Companion.


(Column 1)
	MARTIN LUTHER.

THIS wonderful Reformer,
	I’ve chosen for my theme,
Altho’ his name has echoed
	And re-echoed down the stream
Of time, while bards and orators 
	Have sung and spoke his praise,
With eloquence enchanting,
	And with sweet, harmonious lays.

Most surely was the part he played
	In the history of our race,
All planned by an Almighty power,
	E’en the very time and place,
That he should do his brave, bold deeds, 
	And to help the boy, was given
A lovely, noble mother,
	To teach of God and heaven.

(Column 2)
Amid, a world of chaos
	Where all was dark and dim;
As a brilliant, fiery meteor
	He shot forth, and to him;
All generations owe
	Their love and homage true,
For to him the precious liberty
	We have is largely due.
With al[-] his powers he battled
	’Gainst the false and for the true.

His deep religious nature
	And the evil he had known,
Made him separa e from his fellows,
	And seek the covenant lone. 
While here his soul found respite
	From the burden of his sin,
As he learned the Savior’s mission
	That salvation he might win.

The burning words he uttered, 
	Came not from lips alone,
But from the soul’s recesses,
	And from reasons lofty throne.
So they touched the hearts of others
	With convincing mighty power,
And the march of truth swept onward
 	Gaining converts hour by hour.

E’en the angels seemed to aid him
	As they soared on wings of love,
Bearing with them Luther’s message,
	Inspired from above.
And when the Church assailed him,
	He bravely stood his ground,
True to God and conscience,
	Though demons hovered  [-]ound.

As the keen and vivid lightning
	He pierced proud error’s shield,
Aggressive, bold defiant
	He compelled the foe to yield,
Or like the awful thunder
	Pealing loud from height to height,
He swayed the fate of nations,
	And stood fearless in his might.

Yet this brave and gifted leader
	Was tender in his love,
 In his care for wife and children
	He was gentle as a dove,
In his character was mingled
	The stern, the fierce, the kind,
Defiant when beset by wrong,
	Yet graceful and refined.

He knew not fear but fear of God,
	Which garnished all his life, 
Where’er that led him there he walked,
	However fierce the strife,
Though mighty powers rebuked him,
	Defiant, grand and bold,
He scorned them, taking for his shield,
	The Scriptures had of old.

And from that flame he kindled
	Has grown a brilliant fire,
Blazing aloft unto the heavens,
	While all the world admire.
The good will ever honor him
	And on the scroll of fame,
In letters bright will ever glisten
	Martin Luther’s name.
			MARY A. FREEZE.


MISS HELEN GOULD has offered the
Government $100,000 for the war.


DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.

OBJECTS AND AIMS OF THE SOCIETY.
	PATRIOTISM is to a certain extent an in-
herent quality. Yet it can be cultivated
and should be among the American people.
Our children should early be imbued with a
reverence and love for the divine constitu-
tion of our country given, as we believe it
was, to the founders by our Heavenly
Father. The name of this society, Daugh-
ters of the Revolution, suggests a variety of
thoughts.
	The “Daughters” from the time of the
landing of the Pilgrim Fathers have occu-
pied a prominent place in the building up of
this great country. While they were not
encouraged in filling positions of prominence
their quiet home influence was conducive
of making the greatest patriots and states-
men. We know that to a mother’s influence
is attributed the greatness of her sons, and
the Sons of America are great and noble.
	Our mothers have always been self-sacri-
ficing and devoted in their patriotism to
their beloved country. The struggles,
hardships and privations they have endured
can never be known in this world. Yet they
have always been satisfied and happy in
the knowledge that it was all for America,
“The land of the free, and the home of the
brave.”
	America, dear America! even now the
clouds are dark and threatening, but you will
triumph. Your noble sons and daughters
are willing to undergo any trials for you.
And our Father in heaven who has given
this continent as an inheritance to his chil-
dren will smile upon you in maintaining
everlasting freedom.
	Our aim is high. It is to imbue our sons
and daughters with the love of liberty and
unity which are the greatest blessings
vouchsafed a nation. Our object is to study
the divine institutions of our country. To
make ourselves familiar with the history of
our country and with the lives of our great
men and women.
	In fact our object is to be in close touch
with everything American, and to inculcate
in the minds and hearts of our children
such a love for country that never will a
foreign nation be able to withstand the
bravery and humanity of the sons and
daughters of this fair land, America.
		CLARISSA L. S. WILLIAMS.


FRANCES ELIZABETH WILLARD.

READ AT THE UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS
CLUB APRIL 30, 1898.
	BEFORE me in my mind’s eye I have a
perfect picture of Miss Willard as I saw her
day after day in the President’s place at the
National Council of Women in Washington
in the month of February 1891. The pic-
ture is a beautiful one, of a woman who
knew exactly how to conduct a meeting of
thousands of women congregated together
for mutual helpfulness. Her very presence
gave one the idea of her rare qualities in
dealing with people as well as subjects. She


[Column 1]
knew how to say the right thing at the
proper time and to make it eloquently per-
suasive and convincing. In fact she im-
pressed one as a born leader of people and
of active forces. A closer acquaintance
with this brave woman confirmed these
views of her whole-souled character and
her abundant versatility in entertaining and
holding an audience however numerous or
of whatever variety of faiths or views.
	I had met her on two or three occasions
previously and had grown somewhat famil-
iar with her voice and manner. But even
before I had ever even seen her I had form-
ed my idea of her from the description given
me by Dr. Pratt (our honored president.)
She had spoken to me in glowing terms of
Miss Willard and had made me feel through
her an admiration one seldom feels for an
unknown woman. When Miss Willard
visited Utah afterwards I called upon her
with Dr. Pratt who had met her in the
East and had given me my first view of the
woman, and I often say I had fallen in love
with her before I ever saw her. 
	Dr. Pratt and myself went to hear Miss
Willard in the M. E. Church and we were
both fascinated, so to speak, with her
sparkling personality; then meeting her in
Washington, president of the National
Council, I became deeply interested in the
woman herself—seeing her every day for an
entire week, morning, afternoon and eve-
ning presiding with grace and dignity over
such an august assembly of educated, intel-
ligent women from all parts of the United
States and foreign countries also, one ob-
tained a good idea of her real self and her
knowledge of the world and the vexed
and varied questions that came up from time
to time for consideration.
	I beg pardon for personalities but meeting
Miss Willard since then in Chicago at the
time of the World’s Fair and in Washing-
ton in 1895—at the second triennial session
of the National Council—nothing has ever
caused me to think or feel that she was not
a royal, loyal, womanly woman, adorned
with purity, modesty and all that make up
the sum of loveliness in womanhood.
	She lived unselfishly and self-sacrificingly
for the good of others, the uplifting and bet-
terment of humanity; beloved by all who
knew her and who were associated with her
in her home and in her public career. Mrs.
Mary Lowe Dickinson said of her ap-
propriately:
	“It was indeed a prismatic, many-sided
life. And whether we think of her as the
prairie-child, as daughter, sister, student,
teacher, orator, leader, reformer, it was on
every side a white life, facing the sun and
absorbing and reflecting the light.”
	Frances E. Willard, president of the
World’s Woman’s Temperance Union, (said
to be the most numerous organization of
women,) who died on February 19, 1898—
was of strictly New England parentage,
her forefathers came and settled in Concord,
Mass., about fifteen years after the landing
of the Pilgrims. Major Simon Willard of
Kent, England, founder of the N. E. branch,
was a man of great force of character and of
distinguished public service. Miss Willard’s
great grandfather, Rev. Elijah Willard,
was forty years a pastor in Dublin, New
Hampshire, and his son, Oliver Atherton
Willard, was a pioneer, first in Wheelock,
Vt., and later in Ogden, Monroe Co., N.
Y., where he died leaving to his widow,
Catherine Lewis Willard, the rearing of a
young family in a country almost a wilder-

[Column 2]
ness. Josiah the eldest son, the father of
Frances Willard, grew to maturity in these
surroundings and at twenty-six years of age
married Mary Thompson Hill, born in Dan-
ville, Vt. Frances was the fourth of five
children born to them, two of whom died
in infancy before her birth. She seems to
have inherited many of the best gifts and
powers of her parents and ancestry. She
was born in Churchville, near Rochester,
N. Y., September 28, 1839, but her parents
removed to Oberlin, Ohio, before she was
two years of age that the father might pur-
sue intellectual studies; they lived in Ober-
lin five years, both parents improving the
advantages and opportunities afforded them
of study and culture; but Mr. Willard’s
health demanded open air and exercise and
he removed with his family in May, 1846 to
Janesville, Wisconsin, and settled on a
beautiful farm, half prairie and half forest
on the banks of Rock river—they called
their abode “Forest Home.” Miss Willard’s
mother was poetical in her nature but also
philosophical—a woman of lofty sentiments
and well calculated to be a sort of mentor
and companion to her children in a place
where they were mostly dependent upon
their own resources for society. The father
was near to nature’s heart in a vivid fash-
ion and life was to the children intellectual
and healthful, enjoying entire freedom from
fashionable restraint, and Miss Willard’s
early education was in the home from her
parents. Her first teacher was a graduate
from Yale College who had been a classical
tutor in Oberlin. At the age of seventeen
she was sent with her sister Mary to Mil-
waukee Female College, and later she was
transferred to Northwestern Female College
in Evanston, Ill., where the parents re-
moved in the autumn of the same year that
the home circle might not be broken up.
Miss Willard graduated with Valedictory
honor from that institution in 1859—and
afterwards taught sixteen years in six dif-
ferent localities beginning in district schools
and her pupils numbering in all about two
thousand. After district and public school
teaching she taught in Kankakee Academy
and Pittsburgh Female College, Evanston,
Ill., and was afterwards preceptress in
Genesee Wesleyan Seminary, Dima, N. Y.,
and was president of the Ladies’ College,
and later the Woman’s College of the North-
western University of which she was dean
and professor of aesthetics. She was a firm
believer in co education and dealt with the
unsolved problem in its earlier stages with
hopefulness and skill.
	The Chicago fire swept away a large part
of the financial aid which had been promised
to the college, and the new arrangement
led to complications in the government of
the Woman’s College which rendered it
impossible for Miss Willard to carry out her
plans and she resigned in June 1874.
	From that time she became stirred to the
soul with the temperance crusade in Ohio
and during that winter she heard the divine
call to her life-work. Mrs. Mary A. Liver-
more wished her to join the crusade and
gave her all possible encouragement. While
in New York City in 1874—she had a letter
from Louisa S. Rounds of Chicago, saying,
“It has come to me as I believe from the
Lord that you ought to be president. We
are a little band without money or exper-
ience, but with strong faith. If you will
come, there will be no doubt of your elec-
tion.” Miss Willard turned from most
attractive offers in her profession and going

[Column 3]
West, within a week was made president of
the Chicago Woman’s Christian Temperance
Union.
	It is said Miss Willard in those early
years of her work did not regard pecuniary
compensation and often had no money to
pay for noonday lunch, consequently went
without it, and walked miles because she
had not five cents to pay for a ride on the
street cars. She said she found that period
of her life more blessed than any—baptized
as she was in suffering afterward her field
began to widen.
	A few women came to her aid in estab-
lishing a Gospel meeting in lower Farwell
hall for the benefit of the intemperate. In
this way scores and hundreds of wicked
men were reformed and her Gospel
talks were popular and successful. They
were more to her than the public addresses
she had made to grand audiences a few
years previous, the fact that wicked men
wept and prayed and repented was the com-
pensation she most desired. She turned
away from the attraction of cultivated soci-
ety and scholarly themes and labored in
philanthropic interests entirely.
	From the day of small things the society
grew under her guidance and management,
and the Chicago Woman’s Temperance
Union built the Woman’s Temperance
Temple, and established the Woman’s
Temperance Publication Association, which
scatters its pages of temperance literature
over the world.
	After some time she was urged to accept
and was nominated to the presidency of the
first National Temperance Convention, but
refused and was then elected the corres-
ponding secretary which she accepted, and
besides the large amount of writing spoke
in Chautauqua New England and Middle
States summer camps.
	It was in 1876 while engaged in Bible
study and prayer she was led to the convic-
tion that she ought to speak for woman’s
ballot as a protection to the home from the
tyranny of drink, and in the ensuing
autumn in the national convention in
Newark, N. Y., disregarding the earnest
pleadings of conservative friends, she de-
clared her convictions in her first suffrage
speech.
	It was Miss Willard who originated the
motto, “For God and Home and Native
Land”—first adopted by the Chicago Union,
then the Illinois State Union and became
that of the National, and in 1891 in Boston,
Mass., was adapted to the World’s Union
by changing native to every and reading,
“For God and Home and Every Land.”
The two newspapers Miss Willard assisted
in founding, Our Union in New York
and the Signal in Illinois, were finally
merged into one and called the Union Sig-
nal and is now one of the most widely cir-
culated papers in the world.
	To cover the ground of all the work even
in outline done by this remarkable woman
would occupy a whole evening.
	In 1881 Miss Willard made a tour of the
Southern States which reconstructed her
views on many important questions and did
much to remove conservative prejudice and
sectional opposition. During 1882 she com-
pleted her plan of visiting and organizing
in every state and territority in the United
States and of presenting the cause in every
town and city that had reached a popula-
tion of ten thousand. She visited the Paci-
fic Coast, California and British Columbia
and covered more than 25,000 miles of toil


[Column 1]
some travel, and was enabled to meet the 
National Convention in Detroit, Michigan,
in October 1883 to celebrate the first de-
cade of temperance work rejoicing over
complete organizations of the Woman’s Temperance Union in the 48 sub-divisions
of the United States.
	Miss Willard took charge of the work
when the White Cross movement was ad-
opted as a feature of the Union—this de-
veloped more rapidly than any part of the
work—thousands and tens of thousands of
signatures were obtained for the better
legal protection of women and girls and
presented to Congress; through these deter-
mined efforts legislative action was secured
in almost every state and territory. On 
the Pacific Coast Miss Willard became deep-
ly impressed by the misery consequent upon
the opium habit and succeeded in sending
Mrs. Mary A. Leavitt out as a missionary
to the Sandwich Islands, Australia, Japan,
China, India, Africa and Europe, she was
absent eight years—making hosts of friends
and winning them to the ranks.
	The British Woman’s Temperance Union 
had been previously organized and Mrs.
Margaret Lucas, the sister of John Bright
(and afterwards first president of the
World’s Christian Temperance Union) was
present at the National Convention at Min-
neapolis, Minn., in 1886. Her reception was
magnificent—the convention rising in
groups to honor her—first the crusaders,
then the New England States, then the
Middle States, after these the Western and
Pacific Coast and last the Southern, while
English and American flags waved from
the platform and all joined in singing “God
save the Queen.” The Dominion Wo-
man’s Christian Temperance Union in Can-
ada has been another powerful organization
and now thirty-five nations are united in
the World’s Christian Temperance Union,
and the wearers of the white ribbon num-
ber three hundred thousand—half of the
women are residents of the United States.
	Miss Willard was reelected president of the
National Union every year after 1879, but
in 1887 she was elected president of the 
World’s Christian Union and has been re-
elected biennially ever since. Besides the
missionary and other work we must men-
tion the monster Polygott petition against
legalizing the alcohol and opium traffic
which has been translated into many lan-
guages and hundreds of dialects and active-
ly circulated in Great Britain, Switzerland,
Scandinavia, India, China, Japan, Ceylon,
Australia, Sandwich Islands, Chili, Canada
and the United States, and signed by a
million women. The president of the
British Woman’s Temperance Union, Lady
Henry Somerset, is vice president of the
World’s Christian Temperance Union and
has been a close friend of Miss Willard’s for
many years. It has been said of Miss Wil-
lard that she was “the most widely known
and best beloved woman in America.”
	There are othor countries in which Miss
Willard has traveled besides England and
America where her name is a familiar one.
She has traversed Ireland, Denmark, Ger-
many, Holland, Belgium, France, Austria,
Turkey in Europe; andAsia, Greece, Palestine
and Egypt, and made herself rich in knowl-
edge of these countries. She has contrib-
uted thousands of articles to periodicals,
journals and magazines and the Union Sig-
nal owes much to her pen as editor in chief.
Her books are “Nineteen Beautiful Years,”
“Hints and Helps in Temperance Work,”
“How to Win,” “Woman in the Pulpit,”

[Column 2]
“Woman and Temperance,” “Glimpses of
Fifty Years,” “A Classic Town” and “A
Young Journalist,” the last was written in
conjunction with Lady Somerset; as one of
the committee of the Temperance Congress
at the Columbian Exposition she rendered a
most helpful work to humanity. During
the last few years since her health failed so
much from overwork she has lived much of
the time with Lady Somerset in her beauti-
ful and magnificent home in England, a
congeniality between these two women has
held them fast in a sublime and sacred
friendship.
	Lady Somerset says in her article in the
North American Review: “We do not for-
get in England that to no other philan-
thropist did we ever give so warm a wel-
come. The great meeting at Exeter Hall
that was held in her honor was probably the
most representative gathering that has ever
assembled to greet any great man or wo-
man on that historic platform, and we are
glad to know that we laid laurels at her
feet while yet the homage could bring a
smile to her face and words of praise could
still rejoice her heart.”
	Frances Willard felt that a woman owed 
it to all other women to live as bravely, as
helpfully and as grandly as she could.
					E. B. WELLS.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISPANIA.

HISPANIA thy doom is sealed! The blood 
Of innocence cries for vengeance. 
								Blood and
Tears mark thy pathway for centuries,
And as thou hast sown so must thou
Reap,tears and blood for thy portion.
The noble Incas, trusting, unsuspecting, though
	long among the dead,
Cry for thy downfall.
Romantic thou in love, thy troubadours singing
	their tender passion 
To the tune of the light guitar, where silver
	moonbeams faintly fall,
Love’s soft light from shining lustrous eyes reward
	a lover’s kiss;
But under their smiling, base treachery
	Lurks, that to the death betrays,
In blackened crime or tortures cruel and slow.
Hispaniola as thy sins are great, so mighty must
	be thy fall,
Thy yoke, burdens thy subjects willing neck no
	longer,
But in multitudes, they rise against thee,  
Insurrection at home, wars abroad, thy crown in
	the balance trembles.
Thy power is broken, and strangers rule over
	thee.
O, Montezuma thou shalt now be avenged!
Thou, monarch of a princely race with subjects
True, possessors of wealth fabulous beyond
Compare, they did murder and pillage.
The debt must now be paid. Dost see them
Rising from their graves, the crimson blood
Oozing, dripping from ugly wounds?
Their sightless eyes, and ghastly hands
Raised heavenward, to invoke her vengeance?
Where are their riches, where their treasures?
	Gone
To Spain! Where their princely diadem, their
	works of art?
Gone, gone, stolen by those whose treachery
	is the spectacle of a world,
Ingrates, dealing death to friends in kingly halls,
At whose banquet they sup. 
							Centuries have
Passed away but the blot still remains.
Generations have been born, and acting their

[Column 2]
	part on the stream of Time
Are sleeping in the dust. Children
Reading of thy base ingratitude, shudder to read
	the tale 
Betrayers of friendship, alluring the
Guiltless to destruction, thou hast been.
							Haughty and
Proud art thou, but in the dust thou shalt lie,
An object of pity for tyrants everywhere.
Thy sins have reached to heaven, so clanging loud
	thy convicts chains,
Now read thy doom!
								And Cuba
Must be free! Deep groans to God, ascend from
This poor and stricken land! Brave Cuba thou
	shalt be free!
Thy murmuring winds low sound the dying’s
	groan. 
Thy graves the mourner’s sigh, while
Blood and tears bespread the land.
But freedom’s banner doth wave across
The sea, where float the stars and stripes, 
A mighty arm is raised for thee to break the
	tyrant’s band,
Lo! o’er the world the shout rings wildly out,
	rejoice! for Cuba’s free!
 
And shall the Maine forgotten be, though in the
	mud she lies?
Sent to her doom by treacherous foes, who came
	in f[-]iendly guise?
Her crew asleep, a night most dark, no tears of
	pity rise;
The signal came, and the Battle S[-]ip, upward dash-
	es toward the skies.
The wild waves hush the martyrs shriek and end
	their quivering pain;
Death closes o’er and deep they lie, to never rise
	again.
And sisters pray, and mothers weep for those
	among the dead,
And fathers too whose hair is gray their hope
	forever fled.
And widow’s hearts with anguish break, and or-
	phans cry in vain;
For the Sacrifice, who sailed away on the fated,
	ill-starred Maine.
Hispania! for thee no mourner weeps thy doom
	forever to die,
On history’s page thy name goes out, thy debt
	of liberty to satisfy.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.


“MISS M. LOUISE GILLMORE is said to
have served in the post office longer than
any other woman. She has been clerk at
the ladies’ window in Chicago since Oct.
8, 1867. She received the appointment un-
der Gen. F. T. Sherman, the successor of
her brother, Col. Robert A. Gillmore, who
was drowned soon after he became post-
master. During her thirty years’ service
she has never been absent a day except for
three months when disabled by a serious
accident.”
	IN an appeal for financial assistance the
New York Kindergarten Association says:
“New York has the most over-crowded
population in the civilized world; many
thousands of children in its streets are
unprovided with school accommodation of
any kind, and it is more poorly supplied
with kindergartens than any other of our
great American cities. The need is press-
ing for sufficient money even to support the
fifteen free kindergartens under the charge
of the New York Kindergarten Association.
Nearly $27,000 must be expended annually
to keep the present schools open.”
							Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
pace one me, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
ount regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY MAY 1, 1898.


GOV. WELLS’S PROCLAMATION.

	IT was after midnight last night (April
25) when the Governor and Secretary of
State Hammond signed a proclamation for
volunteers. It took upwards of four hours
of consultation before the document was
completed. There were quite a number
present at the conference, among whom
were Adjutant General John Q. Cannon,
Cols. Charles S. Burton, Nephi W. Clayton
and W. H. Penrose. The proclamation is
as follows:
“By the Governor of the State of Utah:
	“A PROCLAMATION.
	“Whereas, The President of the United
States has issued a proclamation calling up-
ton the various states for 125,000 volunteers
to serve in the army of the United States,
the same to be apportioned among the
several states and territories and the Dis-
trict of Columbia, according to population
and to serve for two years unless sooner
discharged, and
	“Whereas in pursuance of said procla-
mation the secretary of war has designated
the quota from the State of Utah to be one
troop of cavalry, special mounted service
and two light batteries of artillery;
	“Now, therefore, I, Heber M. Wells,
Governor of the State of Utah, to supply
the said quota from this state, do hereby
call for volunteers to the approximate num-
ber of 500 men to enlist in the army of the
United States for the term of two years un-
less sooner discharged. It is the wish of
the President that the National Guard shall
be used as far as their numbers will permit,
and they are therefore especially invited to
enlist. This being the first call for volun-
teers, however, and there being a possibili-
ty of others, this invitation is not to be
construed as expressing the desire that the
infantry arm of the service be weakened by
transfer or discharge. The proportion of
calvary and artillery in the organized militia
being small there will be abundant oppor-
tunity for civilian volunteers, and to them
the invitation is extended with equal cor-
diality.
	“The general requirements for enlistment
are as follows: Men should be intelligent,
active and muscular, free from disease and
of good character and habits, and between
the ages of 21 and 45. Candidates will be
subject to the medical examination pre-
scribed by the army regulations. All of
the recruits for the cavalry and a great
majority of those for the artillery must be


accustomed to horses, and a suitable pro-
portion should be mechanics.
	“Officers to be hereafter designated will
be sent immediately to various central points
within the State for the purpose of recruit-
ing the volunteers. The recruits will be
rendezvoused at Salt Lake City as soon as
possible before May 5, 1898, when they will
be mustered into the service of the United
States.
	“In witness whereof I have hereunto set
my hand and caused the great seal of the
State of Utah to be affixed. Done in Salt
Lake City this 25th day of April, A. D.
1898.
“HEBER M. WELLS”
“By the Governor.
	“J. T. Hammond,
		“Secretary of State.”


THE WAR WITH SPAIN.

LETTER ON THE SUBJECT.

Office of the First Presidency of the
	Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
	Saints.
			Salt Lake City Utah,
					April 28, 1898.

Hon. Heber M. Wells, Governor of the
State of Utah:
	Dear Governor—We have read with
much interest your proclamation to the peo-
ple of our State, in which you call, in re-
sponse to the proclamation of the President
of the United States, for the enlistment of
500 men to furnish Utah’s quota of the
125,000 volunteers called for by the
President to serve in the army of the United
States for two years.
	The people whom we represent are lovers
of peace, and would do anything in their
power consistent with honor and the patri-
otic duty which every citizen owes to his
country, to avert war and its dreadful train
of consequences. Because of this feeling
we have been led to admire the course which
has been taken by President McKinley
throughout the Spanish imbrogilo, and we
have hoped that his efforts to preserve
peace between the two countries would re-
sult in success.
	But war has been declared and we have
it to meet. Our citizens are called upon to
enlist, and Utah is asked to furnish cavalry
and batteries of artillery approximating 500
men.
	We trust that the citizens of Utah who
are Latter-day Saints will be found ready to
respond with alacrity to this call which is
made upon our State. There was a time in
the past when we were called upon as a
religious organization, to make a far greater
sacrifice than this, under circumstances that
were exceedingly painful. Then there was
no hesitation; but upwards of one-third of
the men of suitable age formed a battalion
of 500, left the camp and volunteered to
take part in the Mexican war. In like
manner there should be no hesitation now;
and we sincerely trust that your recruiting
officers will find our co-religionsts as ready
now to enlist and march to the defense of
their country as their fathers were in the
days to which we refer.
	Trusting that you will be eminently suc-
cessful in raising Utah’s quota of volun-
teers, and praying that the Almighty will
protect our nation in the hour of trial and


assist us in our battles for humanity and
right, we remain. Very respectfully
	WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	GEO. Q. CANNON,
	JOS. F. SMITH,
First Presidency of the Church of Jesus
	Chirst of Latter-day Saints.


UTAH PATRIOTISM.

	THERE can be no doubt left in the mind
of any honest-minded person of the sterling
patriotism which exists in Utah. They are
loyal to the heart’s core and their ready re-
sponse to the call to arms has abundantly
proven it beyond contradiction.
	The heroism too of the mothers, wives
and sisters in the encouragement given even
though they were deeply pathetic in their
tenderness and heartfelt emotion, shows their
love of country and sympathy with the
down-trodden and oppressed of other nations.
It has been a part of the religion of the
Latter-day Saints to uphold the nation’s
honor, notwithstanding all that has been
said and published to the contrary. They
love the flag because it is the emblem of a
free republic and they hold sacred the Con-
stitution of the United States.
	War is a terrible thing, but when it be-
comes necessary to protect the life of any
nation or people from a bondage worse
than death, who can say it is not justifiable?
Would there were some better way, some
protection that could be obtained by arbi-
tration! Would that men could accept the
olive branch when offered, or a flag of truce
—but such is not the case at the present
time with Spain.
	President McKinley was, it is very evi-
dent, unwilling to declare war and it was
not until the war had actually begun that
he consented to any war measures. Ameri-
cans on the sea and on the land have clear-
ly evidenced their bravery and loyalty
as citizens of a free nation and the greatest
Republic on the earth. What more can any
man do than has been done; and is being
done daily and hourly for the unfortunate
Cubans to raise them from tyranny and
bondage for all time to come? But O, let
us hope and pray that war shall cease, that
the Lord will turn the hearts of those who
bear rule in ill-fated Spain to surrender
Cuba and give her poor oppressed people
freedom. Surely the women whose sons,
husbands and fathers have gone forth to
battle, will intercede with One who rules
and over-rules and who holds the destinies
of men and of nations in His hands—and
He will lend a listening ear to the prayers
of a broken heart and contrite spirit.
	Let us hope the world is not so wicked
that nations will be slain in a day, but if so
and the cries of the innocent have reached
unto heaven for vengeance, then indeed
must we beseech the Lord for strength to
endure the terrible ordeal.


MELBA’S CONCERT.

	THE world renowned Mme. Melba has
visited Salt Lake City and given her con-
cert in the Tabernacle. There were some
disappointments because of the failure to
appear in numbers assigned them of Mme.
Yon Canteren, Signor Carloone, Signor
Viviani and Mr. Van Hoose. The Sym-
phony orchestra under the leadership of
Signor Bamboni was exquisitely grand,


the opening number was Der Frieschsutz.
Mme. Mallfield’s sweet voice was greatly
appreciated in the air from Mignon, and
Mr. Rains, the basso, has a glorious voice,
his first selection “La Juire” was vigoro-
usly applauded, and to satisfy the demands
of the audience he gave “The Three Gren-
adiers,” which ends with the “Marsellaise.”
He has a fine presence and as he is only
young doubtless has a magnificent career
before him. Mlle. Toronto has a clear
soprano voice and shows much culture, she
sang first “Nobil Signor,” which was ex-
cellent and the applause was such that she
very gracefully gave a sweet little ballad as
an encore. On Mme. Melba’s entrance the
audience gave her an ovation such as we
have rarely seen, the enthusiasm increasing
as her birdlike notes trilled and thrilled
with wonderful harmony the delighted
listeners. It is the idea of some who are
connoisseurs of music that she surpasses
Patti and Nordica. Her first solo was from
the mad scene in Lucia, and certainly she
proved herself a finished artist in the pro-
fession. The accompanist, Mr. Spindler,
played the flute obligato which produced
still greater bursts of harmonious sounds
and the entire audience were wild with de-
light. After reappearing the third time she
gave the finale once more. A large bouquet
of magnificent roses was presented to her.
On her second appearance she gave the song
Mattinata Fasti, and received such applause
as is seldom accorded here, especially in the
Tabernacle; to pacify the people who in-
sisted upon her singing again notwithstand-
ing her gracious bows in acknowledgment
of the enthusiasm exhibited, she sang in a
daintily pathetic fashion the Swanee River,
Bamboni himself standing and turning the
leaves of her music. On her last appear-
ance she sang with great feeling Ardita’s
Se Saran Rose, and this she was obliged to 
repeat although her bows and acknowledg-
ments were profuse.
	Signor Campanari shared to a great ex-
tent the ovations of the evening. He has a
rich, full baritone voice, his manner and pre-
sence were in perfect taste which is always
a pleasure. His first number was “Dio
Possente” from Faust which is a favorite
generally, and for an encore he gave the
Toreardor song from Carmen, which is also
a very great favorite here. Finally he gave
the prologue from Il Pagliacci.
	The great tenor Salignac who seemed to
give great expression aside from his voice,
which was a superb tenor, shone brightly in
the pretty aria of Romeo and Juliet—which
also called heartily for an encore.
	The Tabernacle choir gave at first Aida,
under the leadership of Prof. Stevens with
the full strength of their singers, who made
a good showing and were in good voice,
and seemed to attract much attention from
strangers. For a finale the choir gave the
church scene from Cavalleria Rusticana
which was specially fine and marvellously
well done considering the great number of
voices which blend into one great burst of
sound.
	The superb orchestra finished the con-
cert with Mozart’s “Marriage of Figaro”
which was most exquisitely rendered.
	One of the disappointments of the con-
cert was that one act from “The Barber of
Saville” which had been so much adver-
tised was not given. Although the pro-
gram was fine there was scarcely as much
as a glimpse of grand opera as had been an-
ticipated by the audience.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	PRESIDENT M. ISABELLA HORNE at-
tended the Relief Society conference of
Davis Stake held at Centerville, April 28.
	PRESIDENT JANE S. RICHARDS and
Mrs. Emily S. Richards attended the Re-
lief Society conference of Utah Stake held
at Pleasant Grove on the 17th of April.
	SISTERS ELIZABETH J. STEVENSON and
Margaret A. Caine, also Elder L. John Nut-
tall attended the Relief Society conference
of Sevier Stake held at Richfield April 22.
Sister Stevenson remained ten days and
visited the Stake in company with Presi-
dent Elizabeth Bean and other sisters.
	THE general secretary of the Relief
Society is desirous of getting the name of
each Society that owns a house or granary
or both, in order to know exactly how
many there are who have such buildings of
their own. The general report only esti-
mates this class of property with real estate.
Please write these particulars to this office.
	THE presidents of the several Stake or-
ganizations of the Relief Society are ur-
gently requested to send as soon as possible
a letter stating the time of holding their
quarterly conferences in their respective
Stakes. State the days of the week and
days of the month, also the name of the
place or places where such conferences are
to be held and the hour of meeting during
this coming year up to April 1899. Ad-
dress the letters to the secretary, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, office of the “Woman’s Exponent,”
Templeton, Salt Lake City. The dates etc.
of all these conferences will be published as
soon as received at this office.
	THE dispatches bring news of the
Mother’s Congress now in session at Wash-
ington and to which four at least Utah wo-
men are in attendance. Hannah Sorenson,
Augusta W. Grant and Hattie B. Harker
Salt Lake City, and Delia Booth of Provo.
The “Peace Flag” made of three stripes of
white, purple and yellow satin was con-
spicuous on the stage at the Congress. In
the center piece is a shield shaped piece of
white satin bearing a dove and olive branch.
Within the shield are clasped hands and be-
low it a ribbon scroll on which are the
words “Pro Concordia Labor.” We see
by the telegrams that Mrs. Ellen A. Rich-
ardson of Boston, president of the George
Washington Memorial Association of Wo-
men, is a speaker at the Congress of
Mothers.
	SEVERAL women missionaries have been
called during the present year to assist in
the work of spreading the Gospel in the
fields of labor abroad. In commenting up-
on the fact it has been stated these were
the first that were ever sent in this capacity,
but the facts are a number of women in this
Church have been set apart to go at differ-
ent periods, most of them to serve with
their husbands. We have a long list of
names of the women who have served faith-
fully in the past as also those who are now
absent. The countries to which women 
have been sent are Europe (including Scan-
dinavia, Germany and Switzerland) Great
Britain, Chili, Sandwich, Society and Tonga
Islands, Samoa, New Zealand, Australia,
Canada and many parts of the United
States. About a dozen of these sisters
have gone since the conference in April.
At another time we may publish the names
of those who have been sent at different times.

[Column 2]
	A NEW book recently issued from the
office of the Juvenile Instructor is entitled
“Life Sketches” and is by Aurelia S.
Rogers. It is very interesting and especial-
ly so to those who love the Gospel and who
know the history and experiences of those
who embraced the faith in an early day, and
journeyed westward with the Saints from
place to place. Mrs. Rogers tells the inci-
dents of her life while in her father’s house
and subsequently graphically, and many
good lessons may be learned by our young
people from its pages. The book contains
very good cuts of Elder Orson Spencer, the
writer’s father, also of herself and her sis-
ter, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson. Every Church
organization should have one in its library,
and all the Latter-day Saints in buying
books for the home should include this
valuable book in the purchase. It is well
worth the price, 75cts. per copy. The book
presents a nice appearance outside, is printed
in clear type and contains 333 pages of read-
ing matter. It is pretty generally known
among the people that it was Mrs. Rogers
who originated the idea of the Primary
which has developed into such a spiritual
method of teaching the children.


MRS. HENROTIN’S LETTER.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
	THE General Federation of Woman’s
Clubs is an organization which embraces 29
State Federations of women’s clubs, which
number in membership 1,823 souls; and
over 500 other clubs are also united in the
membership of the General Federation.
The individual membership of these clubs
varies from 25 to 1,000 women. The larg-
est State Federation of women is that of
New York, with 25,000 women as members;
Massachusetts and Illinois rank next, the
former with 1,500, the latter with 1,300.
Ohio has about 7’000 women members of
the State Federation. It is estimated that
the General Federation has about 250,000
women in membership.
	The members of the General Federation
would condemn a war which was under-
taken for aggrandizement or for territorial
acquisition, as the Federation is founded on 
principles of fraternity and reciprocity; but
its members recognize the fact that this
nation is the vanguard of all Republics,
must stand alone for the cause of humanity,
for the cause of the weak against the strong,
for right as against might. We feel that
you represent this cause. Therefore, as a
Federation we tender you our sympathy,
and express to you our confidence in your
wisdom and your devotion to the highest 
good of this dear country of ours.
	While most of the members of the Feder-
ation represent no vote on subjects of nation-
al politics, we do represent great influence.
On us war will fall heaviest, for we must
give our sons, and during and after the
war, must help to repair the ravages and
losses and mitigate the sufferings which
such a terrible event must inevitably bring
in its train. Therefore, we have the best
right to an expression of our opinion. We
pledge you, while it is a question of human-
ity, that you may count on the normal sup-
port of this organization.
	I am, with sentiments of the highest con-
sideration, yours truly,
			ELLEN M. HENROTIN.
President of the General Federation of Wo-
men’s Clubs.


Mrs. Shillington, mother of Harry Shil-
lington, who went down with the Maine,
was shown Mrs. Henrotin’s letter and asked
if she thought it spoke for all the mothers
of America. Mrs. Shillington could not
read any further than the line, “On us war
will fall the heaviest, for we must give our
sons.”
	“I’ve already given one of mine,” she
said, “my Harry. But with one boy buried
in the mud of Havana Harbor, and another
on board a United States cruiser that may
be the first to be sunk in case of war, I have
no appeal to make to the President for
peace. I am a mother, and I have suffered as
perhaps not many of the mothers who have
joined in Mrs. Henrotin’s appeal have suf-
fered, but I do not shrink at the mention of
war.  
	“We must think of our own, and heaven
knows no one could have thought more of
her boy than I did of the one who died on
the Maine; but there are mothers in Cuba
who must be thought of—mothers who have
seen their little ones starve to death by their
sides. Their homes have been destroyed
and families sundered and men, women and
children allowed to die like cattle. I have
to think of those things. Of course I know
the money interests of the country are en-
titled to a full share of consideration, but I
believe too, in honor. I believe it, and I
taught it to my children, and I think they
learned the lesson, for the officers of the
Maine have written to me that my Harry
never swerved from the strict line of his
duty. He never shrank from what was
right, and neither will I, and I can give my
other boy to my country, if need be, as I
did my oldest.
	“Charlie sailed on the government cruiser
Alliance today. His last letter to me said
that now he had but one thought, and that
was revenge. You see, he is only a boy of
seventeen and the death of his brother filled
him. with hatred for those who caused it. I
do not feel about it as he does. I do not feel
any spirit of revenge. I only want to see
the honor of the country vindicated, so that
my boy who is a sailor on board a United
States ship, can walk the streets of a for-
eign city and feel that the blue uniform that
he wears is respected, and that if he dies
his government will demand atonement and
that he is something more than the iron
guns or the plating on the side of the ves-
sel that can be left buried in the muddy
bottom of a harbor and forgotten.
	“I have no criticism to make on the wo-
men who have joined in Mrs. Henrotin’s
petition. They want to be spared the loss
of their loved ones, and I pray God that
they may be. But He should let them suf-
fer as I have suffered, if it is for the sake of
the dead and dying in Cuba; if it is for the
sake of our country and her flag, and for
the sake of the boys who were killed on the
Maine, I can only say to them as I have
aid to myself a hundred and a thousand
times a day, ‘It had to be; it had to be.
There was no other way.’”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS SARAH H. HUNT of Salem, State
regent of the Massachusetts Society of the
Daughters of the Revolution, has officially
tendered to Gov. Wolcott the services of
the association in any way in which wo-
men can help, either by nursing, raising
money or caring for the families of soldiers
and sailors in active service.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
Hall April 2, 1898, President M. I. Horne
presiding. Singing “Arise O glorious
Zion.” Prayer by Lydia D. Alder. Sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice.” President Horne
announced that Sister Zina Bull, our secre-
tary, had another appointment and called
on Sister Lydia D. Alder to act as secretary.
Minutes of the last meeting were read and
accepted.
	President Horne said it was refreshing
to meet with sisters who were striving to
serve God. We should look at the signs of
the times and read the prophecies. God
has set His hand to gather His servants to-
gether. He called Joseph the prophet,
through whom the Gospel was restored to
the earth. God kept this country for the
Saints, that they might be isolated while
His judgments pass over the world. “My
heart flows with gratitude to our Father
more and more every day. President Can-
non said the Lord might delay His coming
if we were not ready. Are we ready? Are
we prepared? if so the day of rejoicing is
near at hand. I examine my heart to see
if I am humble, if I am waiting for His
coming. These days are the same as in the
days of Noah, marrying and giving in mar-
riage even unto the day that the Lord sent
the deluge. Are we living as becomes
Saints? Do we pray often? Do we ap-
preciate the blessings He has bestowed upon
us? Do we uphold the authorities? God
set them there. Do we love one another?
We need unity and God will pour out. His
blessings upon us. War seems inevitable
in our land today. It has to come whether
we want it or not. Things are moving
more swiftly than even I can realize. Faith
seems to be waning among the Saints, let
us ask God’s blessing in what we do.
Those that overcome will sit down in our
Father’s kingdom. It is not the mission of
the Latter-day Saints to shed blood. When
the call was made for the five hundred for
the Mormon Battalion President Young said
if they responded not one should be slain,
nor should they shed blood.” Urged the
sisters to have their patriarchal blessings,
she read her’s only a few days ago that was
given by Patriarch Hyrum Smith, and it
was such a blessing to her.
	Sister Waterfall said she prized the teach-
ings she received at these meetings, spoke
of her patriarchal blessing and bore her tes-
timony to the truth of the Gospel. 
	Sister Lydia D. Alder spoke on the words
“They also serve who only stand and wait,”
and bore her testimony.
	Sister Robinson also bore a strong testi-
mony and desired to be faithful.
	Sister Carrington bore testimony to the
work of the Lord and thanked Him for the
Gospel.
	Sister Bullock felt overjoyed to feel the
spirit of this meeting, felt to praise God for
all His blessings, testified to the answering
of prayers and told of a dream she had
which comforted her. Singing “Guide us
O Thou Great Jehovah.”
	Two or three sisters bore their testimony
and Sister J. C. Howe said, “May the Spir-
it of God never leave us to ourselves. We
have listened to the testimonies of the young
the aged and the middle-aged. On the 6th
of April forty-nine years ago, I entered the
waters of baptism. My parents were good
and lived up to the knowledge they had.

[Column 2]
feel grateful to them for the manner in
which they taught me the scriptures. The
Gospel is more, precious to me now than
ever, the world and its pleasures will all
pass away, but the love of God endureth for
ever. Charity covereth a multitude of sins,
thinketh no evil, but is altogether lovely.”
	Sister Rogers said she had always wanted
to come to the 14th ward meetings. “I do
not live here, but I feel the good influence
in this meeting. I feel to bless the young
sister who spoke of her affliction and trusted
her heavenly Father.” Bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, desired to be
faithful and prepared, spoke of the Temple
duties and thought we had better be ready
before the call came.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards also spoke
of. the wedding garments. If we have the
Spirit of the Lord we will have our wed-
ding garments ready. Spoke of the Spirit
of God in the Temple and said it is possible
to have the Spirit of the Lord that we will
make no mistakes, even in our temporal
affairs. This would enable us never to
make mistakes. Asked the blessing of the
Lord on all the sisters.
	Sister Eliza Reddington said she had at-
tended these meetings for years but had
never before risen, but desired to be faithful.
	Sister Fletcher said she went to the hos-
pital for treatment, and some brethren
blessed her, said she should be calm and the
angels should overlook the operation, said
she had these blessings for her good. She
wanted to serve the Lord and keep His
commandments and desired the faith of the
sisters. Since she went into the Temple
she was better, her arm was better. Her
prayers had been answered, she desired to
serve God and that her children might also.
	President Horne said God would bless all
who had testified this afternoon. Announc-
ed the Relief Society conference on Tues-
day 5, in the Assembly hall at 10 a. m. and
2 p. m., also the conference on Wednesday
6.  Adjourned for two weeks. Singing
Doxology. Benediction Sister Julia Howe.
		LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


R. S. REPORT

WAYNE STAKE
	The Relief Society conference was held
Feb 28, 1898, in the Thurber Relief Society
hall. Meeting called to order by Counselor
Mary E. Hanks. Singing “Prayer is the
souls sincere desire.” Prayer by Patriarch
E. H. Blackburn. Singing “O Lord of
hosts we now envoke.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and accepted. 
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks said she was
pleased to meet, with the brethren and sis-
ters in Relief Society conference, had en-
joyed a spiritual feast at the Stake confer-
ence and her heart burned with love for the
Gospel. Desired to see the young people
step forward in the Church and prayed God
to bless the sisters in their labors.
	Loa, Thurber and Grover branches were
represented by their respective presidents.
Teasdale, Cainsville, Aldrich and Giles were
also reported by their representatives; all
were doing good work and were energetic
in their labors.
	Stake President Jane S. Coleman was
pleased with the reports given and felt to
thank the Lord for the everlasting Gospel.
Bore testimony to the gift of healing and
was desirous for the sisters to be encouraged
in their labors of love. At our meetings


we should make choice of elevating sub-
jects, such as virtue, charity, etc.; also to
see that our records are kept in good con-
dition. Spoke in very appreciative terms
of what the Thurber Relief Society board
had accomplished the past year. Through
their energy and the assistance of the
brethren they have built a fine brick build-
ing on the new town site.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth was gratified
to have so many of the brethren meet with
us, for where the Priesthood are there the
Spirit of the Lord is in greater abundance.
We should try to put in practice the good
teachings we hear from time to time. Ex-
horted all to keep the word of wisdom and
set a good example to the young people.
	Bishop M. W. Mansfield was proud of
the Relief Society in Thurber, they were
energetic in their labors. Said the instruc-
tions given had come from the proper spirit,
and said that we should apply the word of
wisdom so that our bodies might be healthy
and strong.
	Patriarch E. H. Blackburn was pleased
to meet with the sisters and partake of the
good spirit in their conference. He had
labored fifty-five years in the Church and
had never tired of working for the Lord.
God’s blessing must be upon the Relief
Society, because it was organized by His
Prophet.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing “O, My Father.” Benediction by
Bishop W. E. Hanks.
	Afternoon session: After the usual open-
ing exercises the statistical report was read,
President Jane S. Coleman explained the
expense fund, Counselor Mary E. Hanks
presented the officers of the Relief Society,
Sisters Leah Blackburn, Sarah A. Robison,
Eliza Brinkerhoff, Mary E. Gordon, Mary
Bullard and Maria Jakeman all bore testi-
mony and exhorted the sisters to perform
their duties. Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth
made timely remarks.
	Bishop W. E. Hanks said he had been
edified by the instructions given, our object
is to teach the young people that which we
pratice ourselves. We have got to be ex-
amplary in our lives, we have a great mis-
sion to perform.
	Counselor M. E. Hanks said we cannot
live without the blessings of the Lord, we
should make progress in the Church, the
Lord does not require anything of us that
we are not able to accomplish.
	President Jane S. Coleman made re-
marks that were encouraging and appreciat-
ed by those present.
	Patriarch E. H. Blackburn said he could
look back and remember when the Relief
Society was not in the condition it is today,
said death was brought into the world for a
wise purpose, and closed with blessings for
the sisters.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “When shall we all meet again.”
Benediction by Elder George Stringam.
		ANNIE O. COLEMAN, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

LAURA FITZGERALD NEBEKER.
	In this city on Monday Feb. 7th last, a faithful
mother in Israel, Sister Laura Fitzgerald Nebeker,
departed this life. She was a native of Pennsyl-
vania, a pioneer of Utah and a faithful consistent
Latter-day Saint. Few persons combine intense
spirituality and practical ideas of life to the de-
gree she did. Her faith in the Gospel and its 
promises was unswerving, and in matters of prin-
ciple she was most uncompromising. In such
matters her acquaintances always knew where to

[Column 2]
look for “Mother Nebeker.” For years she was
a member of the Relief Society of her ward, ever 
since it was first organized, and as one of its 
teachers was ever zealous and active in its affairs,
till failing strength prevented her. She was a
subscriber of the “Exponent” and much enjoyed
reading its pages until physical weakness pre-
vented. She was ever earnest in teaching her
children the principles of the Gospel, and on her
death bed she bore an impressive testimony to
its truth, and fervently urged them to follow her in
obeying its requirements, and to lay hold on its 
promises. Her mental faculties were clear up to  
her last sleep, which merged into death.
		CARRY SMITH, Sec. 22nd ward R.S.
ELIZA CARNNAGE BARNETT. 
	With loving remembrance we r[-]cord the death 
of our aged and respected sister, Eliza Carnnage
Barnett, who departed this life Feb. 12, 1898, at
the age of seventy-eight years. She was at the
home of her daughter, Emma Wright, who lives
near Ogden. She was born in Staffordshire,
England in 1820; was married to John W Barnett
in Birmingham, England, in 1840, joined the
Church soon after and came with her husband
and family to America in 1854. They stopped in
Philadelphia for five years, where the Elders were
always made welcome. They came to Richmond,
Cache Co., in 1863 where they spent the remainder
of their lives. Her husbacd died in 1878.
	When the Relief Society was organized in 1868
Sister Barnett was chosen and set apart as second
counselor to the president, which office she faith-
fully filled a number of years. She was the
mother of eleven children, ten girls and one boy,
eight of whom are dead. She had fifty-one
grandchildren, fifty-two great grandchildren and
one great great grandchild. The funeral services
over the remains were held in the Richmond
meeting house Feb. 15, 1898.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, We acknowledge her loss and faithful
performance of all duties, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we sympathize with her family
and friends in their great loss. Be it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded
in the Relief Society record, a copy presented to
the family and another sent to the “Woman's Ex-
ponent” for publication.
Verse by Hannah Brower:
	Sister Barne[-]t thou hast left us,
		Gone to join that lovely choir,
	Of thy kindred gone before thee,
		Far beyond the world of care.
				JULIA PETTY,
				LYDIA PURNHAM,
				ELIZA C HOBSON.
						Committee.
ELIZA EMMA THOMAS.
	With loving remembrance we record the death
of Sister Eliza Emma Thomas, who departed this
life March 8, 1898, at Richmond, Cache Co. She
was the daughter of Samuel and Phebe Adams,
was born in Rounds, Northamptonshire, England,
joined the Church in the same place, came to
Utah in 1868 and was married to Martin Thomas
January 9, 1871, in Ogden, Utah. The family came 
to Richmond soon after and Sister Thomas held
the position of teacher in the Relief Society for
a number of years, doing a great amount of good
and always willing to help the sick and destitute.
She leaves a husband, eight children, six grand-
children and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, We acknowledge her loss, and readi-
ness at all times to give a helping hand, there-
fore be it
	Resolved, That we sympathize with her family
and friends. Be it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded 
in the Relief Society record, a copy sent to the 
bereaved husband and another sent to the
“Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
	These verses were composed upon the death of
Sister Thomas by Hannah Brower:
	Gently sleeping is our mother
		Eliza Thomas loved and fair.
	Taken from this scene of action,
		To her Heavenly Parents care.

	Mother thou went kind and gentle,
		Tender, patient, good and true.
	Thou hast won the hearts of many,
		And a crown thou hast in view.

[Column 3]
	Left thy husband, sons and daughters
		On the weary earth below,
	But thou art gone to join the ransomed,
		And thy robes are pure as snow.

	Mother we expect to meet thee 
		When we do the work begun, 
	And we hope thy kind examp[-]e,
		Will become a beacon sun. 
				JULIA PETTY,
				LYDIA BURNHAM.
				ELIZA C. HOBSON,
						Committee.


MARY R. GOODLIFFE

	Mary Robbins Goodliffe, daughter of
Edmond and Agnes McAllister and beloved
wife of Bishop Arnold Goodliffe of Snow-
ville, was born in Manchester, England,
June 27, 1840, and died in Snowville March
8, 1898, aged fifty-seven years, eight months
and twelve days.
	Aunt Mary as she was called by all, from
the “hoary headed to the lisping toddler”—
was baptized a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when
she was eight years old, crossed the plains
with the Milo Andrus company and arrived
in Salt Lake City Utah in 1855. While en-
route for Utah Aunt Mary was stricken
with the fatal disease of cholera, at Mormon
Grove. There the great faith in the Gospel
and its ordinances which has ever since
been emblematic of her life showed itself. 
Although her eyes were glazed and set in
death, when asked if she had faith and 
wanted to live she nodded her head in the
affirmative, was administered to and in-
stantly healed under the hands of Elder
Israel Barlow (now deceased) of Bountiful.
	Her father died in St Louis, her dear 
mother followed shortly after their arrival
in Salt Lake and thus she was left alone—
no home, no friend but God to dry the or-
phan’s tear and suppress the heart broken
moan. She passed through the hard times 
of famine and distress which the Saints
endured in this early day, and to add to her
troubles fell into the hands of a woman who
treated her most unkindly. She became
acquainted with, and on August 16, 1857.
became the wife of Arnold Goodliffe. They
took part in the move of 1858, and after the
return of the Saints settled in Kaysville.
	At the time of the settlement of Cache 
Valley she and her husband went with a
company and helped to settle Franklin.
While the Fort was building, one side being
open, the brethren were all away in the
mountains except an old man by the name
of Garner, forty Indians headed by “Weber
Tom” rode into the Fort and threatened to
kill every woman and child. Brother
Garner knew “Weber Tom” and with
Aunt Mary made a parley with them, told
them they had better have some dinner first,
and to the great joy of both, the Indians
agreed to this. Aunt Mary rallied the
fainting, frightened and screaming sisters,
and they with Brother Garner gathered all
the bread and buttermilk they could muster.
While the Indians were enjoying the repast
the brethren returned, and thus the massa-
cre was averted. It went all over the val-
ley that Aunt Mary had whipped forty 
Indians with bread and buttermilk, thus
proving the wisdom and divinity of the
counsel of our beloved President Young,
“Feed, don’t fight the Indian.”
	Aunt Mary afterwards moved to Logan, 
her husband having been called there by
Elder Ezra T. Benson. When Apostle C. 
C. Rich moved to Bear Lake valley Sister


Goodliffe with her husband was among the
first settlers there, settling where Blooming-
ton ward now stands. While yet in camp
there with only a bowery overhead and their
wagon boxos for houses, while tho men
folks were away getting logs for dwelling
houses a fire broke out in camp. In the
excitement of such an occurrence some of
the sisters forgot their sleeping babes in
Brother Groodliffe’s wagon box. When the
cry was made for the babes Aunt Mary
with a courage born of God, sprang into
the now burning boxes, handed out the
babies, then threw out several cans of
powder which were already so hot that her
hands were blistered. Brother Goodliffe
and wife lost all they possessed.
	After a stay of four years in Bear Lake
they moved to Malad City. Here Aunt
Mary labored as a teacher in the Relief
Society from its organization. In 1876 her
husband was called to the office of Bishop to
preside over Curlew valley where the fam-
ily then moved to, and where the town of
Snowville (named in honor of Apostle
Lorenzo Snow) now stands. Here Aunt
Mary was called to the presidency of the
Relief Society at its organization in 1878,
which office she filled with honor and dig-
nity up to the time of her death and as one
of the speakers at the funeral remarked,
“Her place will be hard to fill.” Aunt
Mary’s home has always been a wel-
come retreat not only to her friends but
even to her enemies (of the Gospel) where-
ever she has dwelt, as hundreds can testify.
	The funeral services were held in the
school house April 14th, the procession 
forming at her house two and a half blocks
away, the Relief Society at the head, the re-
mains of Aunt Mary being lovingly and
reverently borne by her six nephews followed
by the family and friends. The speakers
were one and all eulogistic in their praises
of Aunt Mary’s virtues, good deeds and of
her undying faith in and unwavering obe-
dience to the Gospel in its fulness. The
Lord for a wise purpose had denied her
children but she was most truly a Mother
in Israel. Truly could she say “I have
fought my way through, I have finished
the work Thou didst give me to do,” and
will from her Lord receive the glad words,
“Well and faithfully done, enter into my
rest and sit down on my throne.”
				ESTHER GOODLIFFE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CLARA BARTON IN TAMPA,
FLORIDA.

	ON the eventful 9th of April when Con-
sul General Lee and the many imperilled
Americans took leave of Havana, Clara
Barton with her assistants and corps of
trained nurses, also left that city for Tampa,
Florida, and here will be their headquaters
until called elsewhere by “war alarms.”
	They have taken commodious furnished
apartments on Plant Avenue, near the bay,
and look after their own needs, having for
the time being a comparative rest from the
work of relief of the suffering to which they
have devoted themselves. Miss Barton has,
however, been in conference with Mayor
Gillette and Mr. Edward Manrara of this
city, regarding the feeding of such needy
Cubans as are not supplied at the Manrara
kitchen. For months this Mr. Manrara, a
wealthy Cuban citizen, has provided meals
for his unemployed countrymen and their
families in Ybor City, as the fourth ward of
Tampa is called, where reside 8,000 to


10,000 of these people. In West Tampa
and other parts of the city are others who
have not been so systematically helped. It
is in aid of these and many other refugees
from the islands that Miss Barton is inter-
ested.
STATEMENT MADE BY HER TO A REPRESEN-
TATIVE OF THE LOCAL PRESS.
	‘‘The American National Red Cross has
been in the field of Cuban relief several
weeks, acting under the civil constitutional
clause of its treaty, which empowers it by
consent of the nations, to work in the relief
of suffering by great national calamities, ir-
respective of war.
	“The original treaty of Geneva provides
only for relief in war. The extension of
the provisions of the treaty to include other
great disasters, was a special concession
made to the American Red Cross, upon its
accession to the treaty, and is known as the
American Amendment.
	“The singular coincidence now presents
itself of both provisions of the treaty being
called into action in the same field. The
Red Cross has distributed the food sent by
the people of America to the suffering recon-
centrados as long as such action was admiss-
ible. Now that war is imminent and our
guns prepare to sweep the island, it be-
comes the duty of the Red Cross to retire
from the threatening field and place itself in
position behind the guns and wait. When
men fall by the sword it will faithfully and
fearlessly fulfill its mission of relief in war,
caring for all, friend and foe alike.
	“Let it be well understood by all Ameri-
cans that their Red Cross has not left the
field, any more than have the great waiting
monitors in the harbor of Key West. It
has withdrawn to its proper position, and
waits its call to duty. The Red Cross in
military service never precedes, but follows
the army and obeys implicitly the orders of
the general in command. Our commanders
will all understand this, and it is to avoid
confusion in the minds of the people that I
make these explanations.”
								Ex.


TESTIMONIAL.

	ON Monday April 11, the sisters of the
Relief Society of the 22nd ward met in their
Society hall for the purpose of presenting
Sister Olive Kimball with a token of the
love and respect in which they held her,
previous to her departure to Arizona with
her husband, Elder Andrew Kimball, to
take charge of the mission there.
	After meeting had been opened in the
usual manner, Sister Rachel Whipple, presi-
dent of the Society, made some very en-
couraging remarks, blessing them on their
mission and wishing them God speed. Sis-
ter Emma Brown then presented them with
a gold pen and souvenir silver spoon with
the Temple engraved inside the bowl.
Elder Andrew Kimball gave a very grati-
fying description of his mission which he
had just commenced. Sister Jennie Hyde
paid a loving tribute of affection towards
them. Sister Elizabeth Nebeker spoke
feelingly of the duty they were undertaking,
wishing them every success, after which an
impromptu program was rendered. Mrs.
Nellie Druce Pugsley rendered several musi-
cal pieces in her own beautiful style, after
which the sisters enjoyed a sumptuous re-
past, making a very enjoyable time.
							[COM.]


Save Your Money!
And when you get a do[-]lar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WILFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
Teaches two classes yearly in Ob.
stetrics and Nursing, beginning just
after the spring and fall Conference
Special opportunities and prices are
given to Societies sending students,
and also to those who have had
previous study.
	For full particulars please com-
municate either personally or by
letter with
ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D
75 Center Street, Salt Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.


VOL. 26	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15 TO 26 1898.	NO. 24.


CONTENTS:
	The War a Minor Question—Elizabeth Cady
Stanton. A Mothers’ Congress. Mothers’ Con-
gress in Washington. Woman’s Council on War
—May Wright Sewall. Anna Garlin Spencer on
the War. U. W. P. C. Ladies’ Semi monthly
Meeting. Biographical Sketch—Alice M. T. Tan-
ner. In Memoriam. R. S. and P. A. Reports.
Our Savior—Zion’s Convert. Literary Club
Election.
	EDITORIAL:—Editors and People who Read.
The Utah Volunteers. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:— Ode to Deseret—E. B. W. Greeting
Song—Jennie Ames Packard.


[Column 1]
ODE TO DESERET.

Thou’rt beautiful, sweet, our mountain retreat,
	There’s magic in everything here;
Tho’ the raging storm howl, and the angry sky
		scowl
	And all nature in terror appear. 
Tho’ the wind whistle shrill, and each valley and
		hill,
	Echo back to the wild music’s strain, 
Yet it chords with the heart, and doth comfort
		impart
	For it touches a sensitive vein. 
There’s a voice in the wind, which awakes in the
		mind
	Reflections naught else could have stirred,
We commune with the soul, while we try to con-
		trol
	And hush into silence each word.

’Tis a heavenly spell, no bosom can tell,
	That accords with the element’s strife,
And the loud, piercing shriek of the tempest most
		bleak, 
	Alone can awake it to life. 
Here thy tall mountains rise, and seem touching
		the skies,
	Truly wonderful, grand and sublime!
We admire to behold, so majestic and bold!
	Thou art lovely our own happy clime.

Thy ravines and thy streams, where true loveliness
		seems
	Fairer mirrored than ever before;
As we view with delight by the moon’s gentle
		light, 
	Are enough to make mortals adore.

Then thy clear silvery lake, would unconsciously
		wake
	Admiration most pure in the breast,
When the far-setting sun its day’s work hath done
	And its banners reflect from the West.

’Tis an emblem complete, of that rapture so
		sweet,
	That still lingers awhile round the heart,
When we bid an adieu, to friends constant and
		true,
	Compelled for a season to part.

Let the great and the wise, talk of Italy’s skies,
	And sing of her gay orange bowers, 
Thy skies are more fair, more salubrious thine
		air,
	More fragrant and brilliant thy flowers.

[Column 2]
Circassian maids will sink in the shade
	With Deseret’s fair daughters in sight;
Then their love for her laws, well deserve of
		applause,
	They would die in defending the right.

And then ’tis thy boast, thou canst muster a host
	Of such boys so true-hearted and brave,
Who never know fear, and when danger is near,
	Would fight till they died thee to save.

Thou art honored above all the world, we can
		prove,
	For here dwell the wisest and best, 
Who commune with the Lord and receive of His
		word,
	And an Ensign have raised in the West.

And to thy peaceful home, Zion’s children will
		come,
	And all nations shall hear of thy fame,
Highly honored art thou, to thy mandates we’ll
		bow,
	And our hearts shall exult in thy name.
								E. B. W.
Great Salt Lake City, Dec. 1850.


[Column 1]
THE WAR A MINOR QUESTION.

	Mrs. Stanton was invited by Miss An-
thony to send to the woman’s suffrage con-
ference held recently in Rochester, N. Y., a
letter on “Women and the War.” She re-
plied as follows:
New York, April 27, 1898.
Dear Miss Anthony:
	You ask me to send a letter as to wo-
man’s position in regard to the war. Many
with whom I talk feel aggrieved that they
have no voice in declaring war with Spain,
or in protesting against it. The vast
majority of men are in the same position.
Why care for a voice in an event that may
happen once in a lifetime, more than in
those of far greater importance continually
before us? Why groan over the horrors of
war when the tragedies of peace are forever
before us? Our boys in blue well fed and
clothed in camp and hospital, are better off
than our boys in rags, over-worked in mines,
in factories, in prison houses and in bare,
dingy dwellings called homes where the
family meet at scanty meals after working
ten hours, to talk over their hopeless situ-
ation in the despair of poverty.
	A friend of mine visited the bleaching
department in one of our New England
factories, where naked boys oiled from head
to foot are used to tramp pieces of shirting
in a large vat. The chemicals necessary
for bleaching are so strong as to eat the skin
unless well oiled. In time they affect the
eyes and lungs. There these boys in re-
lays tramp, tramp all day, but not to music
nor inspired with the love of country. In
England they have machinery for such
work, but in the land of the Puritans boys
are cheaper than machinery.
	On a platform of one idea mothers cannot
discuss these wrongs. We may talk of the
cruelties of Cuba now on any platform, but
not of the outrages of rich manufacturers in
the State of Massachusetts.

[Column 2]
	Under the present competetive system ex-
istence is a continual war, the law is each
one for himself, starvation and death for-
the hindmost! My message today to our
coadjutors is that we have a higher duty
than the demand for suffrage; we must now
at the end of fifty years of faithful service,
broaden our platform and consider the next
step in progress, to which the signs of the
times clearly point—namely, co-operation,
a new principle in industrial economies.
We see that the right of suffrage avails
nothing for the masses, in competetion
with the wealthy classes and, worse still,
with each other. Women all over the
country are working earnestly in many
fragmentary reforms, each believing that
her own if achieved would usher in a new
day of peace and plenty. With woman
suffrage, temperance, social purity, rigid
Sunday laws and physical culture, could
any or all be successful, we should see no
change in the condition of the masses We
need all these reforms and many more to
make existence endurable. What is life to-
day to the prisoner in his lonely cell? to the
feeble hands that keep time to the machin-
ery in all our marts of trade? to those who
have no abiding place, no title to one foot
of land on this green earth? Such are the-
fruits of competition. Our next experiment
is to be made on the broad principle of co-
operation. At the end of fifty years whose
achievements we celebrate here today, let
us reason together as to the wisdom of lay-
ing some new planks to our plat-
form.
	The co-operation idea will remodel some
codes and constitutions, creeds and cate-
chisms, social customs and conventional-
isms, the curriculum of schools and colleges;
it will give a new sense of Justice, Liberty
and Equality in all the relations of life.
Those who have eyes to see recognize the
fact that the period for all these fragment-
ary is ended. Agitation of the broader
question of philosophical socialism is now
in order. The next step in progress has
long been foreshadowed by our seers and
prophets from Mazzini and Fourier to
Thomas Paine and Henry George; and is
now being agitated by able thinkers
and writers in all of the civilized coun-
tries.
	“The few have no right to the luxuries
of life, while the many are denied the nec-
essities.” This motto is the natural out-
growth of the one so familiar on our plat-
form and in our official paper “Equal rights
for all” under our present competitive sys-
tern. “All men are born free with equal
right to life, liberty and happiness.” The
natural outgrowth of this sentiment is the
vital principle of Christian religion—“Love
thy neighbor as thyself.” In broad liberal
principles the Suffrage Association should be
the leader of thought for women, and not
narrow its platform from year to year to
one idea, rejecting all relative ideas as side
issues.
	“Progress is the victory of a new thought
over old superstition.”
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
—Ex.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
A MOTHERS’ CONGRESS.

	There was a well attended meeting of
ladies at the rooms of the Woman’s Club,
in the joint building on the morning of May
10, and a State organization was effected to
be known as the Utah State Mothers’ Con-
gress.
	Mrs. Maynard as temporary chairman ex-
plained the object of the meeting. Mrs.
Selden I. Clawson was appointed tempor-
ary secretary.
	Mrs. L. C. Trent moved that a Mothers’
Congress for the State of Utah be held
at Salt Lake City, the time and place to be
hereafter decided.
	Mrs. C. E. Allen spoke at some length
upon the necessity existing for a movement
of the kind now contemplated. Miss Mary
C. May also expressed her interest in the
undertaking and especially stated her anx-
iety to do something for young women—
unmarried women, as well as for mothers,
and that this movement should prove of
benefit to both classes. Mrs. Parsons re-
ferred to the first mothers’ meeting held in
this city about thirteen years ago, and was
glad to note that the present effort at or-
ganization was likely to prove successful.
Mrs. F. D. Kimball expressed great inter-
est in the congress and hoped that good re-
sults would attend its efforts.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells appreciated the
great amount of help the congress could
give mothers, in whose interests we had
been working for many years. This move-
ment was looked upon as a new one in the
United States, but the facts were that the
Relief Society of Utah had been carrying on
successfully a similar work for many years
past. The present movement could not
be otherwise than of great benefit to mothers.
	Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon expressed her
willingness to do all in her power to assist
in bringing the present movement to a suc-
cessful working basis; and like the previous
speaker Dr. Cannon mentioned the good
work which has been done by the Relief
Society in this State in years gone by and
up to the present time in the proper teach-
ing of mothers and daughters.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards felt that the wo-
men present, while among the busiest in
Utah, were the proper ones to carry this
movement on to success.
	Mrs. McVicker indicated her great in-
terest in the present movement and said
that she would lend her best aid to bring
it to a successful working order.
	Mrs. H. S. Young was deeply interested
in this congress and expressed a willing-
ness to assist in the work among the young-
er persons to be benefited by the congress.
The speaker being already engaged in
the kindergarten work to a great extent,
she would be pleased to help in a similar
direction in the present movement. 
	Mrs. J. C. Weeter of Park City pledged
the interest and assistance of the ladies in
her town to this movement. Mrs. Freeze
said how much she was interested in this
work and the motion that was previously
made to hold a Mothers’ Congress in this
city was carried.
	Mrs. Parsons moved that a committee of
three be appointed by the chair to make
nominations for officers. This motion was
amended by Mrs. Wells so that the com-
mittee would consist of seven instead of
three members, and then the motion carried
and the chair appointed Masdames E. H.
Parsons, H. S. Young, C. E. Allen, J. E.
Bamberger, L. C. Trent, F. D. Kimball,

[Column 2]
and M. B. Sowles as such a committee.
   After retiring for consultation the com-
mittee reported the following officers and
the report was accepted and adopted:
	For president, Miss Mary C. May.
	For vice-presidents, Mrs. McCornick,
Mrs. Louie Felt, Salt Lake City; Mrs.
Wm. Driver, Ogden; Mrs. Reed Smoot,
Provo; Mrs. Reed, Mt. Pleasant; Miss
Kewley, Logan; Mrs. Ferry, Park City, and
Mrs. Martin of Manti.
	It was also provided that the officers and
the heads of all standing committees con-
stitute the executive board. The president
was empowered to appoint committees.
WILL BE HELD IN SALT LAKE CITY IN
JUNE.
	Last night the officers appointed by the
ladies advocating the holding of a mothers’
congress in Utah met at the Templeton in
executive session. A general discussion of
plans for the congress was held and it was
determined to hold the congress in this city
sometime in the latter part of June. The
committees to have charge of the work for
the first congress were named and are as
follows:
	General Officers—Miss May of the Utah
University is president, Mrs. Louie Felt
is vice-president.
	Program—Mrs. Mila Tupper Maynard,
Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, Mrs. F. D. Kim-
ball.
	Finance—Mrs. J. E. Bamberger, Mrs. L.
C. Trent, Mrs. P. P. Jennings, Mrs. Maria
Dougall, Mrs. J. T. Gilmer, Mrs. F. S.
Richards, Mrs. Isaac Jennings.
	Entertainment—Mrs. Elizabeth McCune,
Mrs. A. T. Hyde, Mrs. J. H. Bennett,
Mrs. Eugene Lewis, Mrs. A. L. Gray, Mrs.
Phoebe Beattie, Mrs. C. W. Bennett, Mrs.
Hattie Young, Mrs. Annie S. Young, Mrs.
Clarence T. Brown, Mrs. Ellis R.
Shipp, Mrs. D. J. Sharp, Miss Catherine Wells.
	Press—Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. Evange-
line Powers, Mrs. Annie J. Cope Miss
Emily Katz, Mrs. Thomas Weir, Mrs. H.
C. Wallace, Miss Mae Taylor, Mrs. Susa
Young Gates, Provo; Mrs. Mamie Rich-
ards, Ogden; Mrs. D. C. McLaughlin,
Park City; Miss Moorhead, Logan; Miss
Katie Dougall, Springville; Miss Serena
Neilson, Mount Pleasant; Miss Alvira
Reese, Brigham City; Mrs. A. L. Cox, Manti.
Miss Rowberry, Grantsville; Mrs.
George Ryan, Tintic; Miss May, Nephi;
Mrs. Maria Dix, Mercur; Mrs. Abram
Hatch Jr., Heber; Mrs. Margaret Callis,
Coalville; Mrs. Julia McDonald, St. George;
Miss Bessie White, Beaver; and one to
be named from Bingham.
	Music—Mrs. W. W. Riter, Mrs. F. B.
Hamilton, Miss Geneva Jennings, Mrs.
Nellie Pugsley, Mrs. M. J. Hughes, Mrs.
C. G. Plummer, Miss Winnifred McGarth,
Mrs. Frank Jennings, Miss Cecelia Sharp,
Mrs. Kate B. Anderson.
	Transportation—Mrs. Margaret A. Caine,
Mrs. Joseph T. Kingsbury, Mrs. C. S. Kin-
ney, Mrs. Ella Stewart, Mrs. H. W.
Brown, Mrs Ruth M. Fox, Mrs. J. F.
Millspaugh, Mrs. J. E. Talmage, Mrs. L.
L. Archer.
	Reception—Mrs. E. H. Parsons, Mrs.
Ellsworth Daggett, Mrs. M. C. Fox, Mrs.
George M. Downey, Mrs. William M.
Stewart, Mrs. J. E. Jennings, Mrs. W. A.
Nelden. Mrs. E. B. Critchlow, Dr. R. B.
Pratt, Mrs. Frank Pierce, Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze, Mrs. W. E. Smedley, Mrs. C. C.
Goodwin, Mrs. Hubbard W. Reed, Mrs.
H. L. A. Culmer, Mrs. J. H. McVicker,

[Column 3]
Mrs. Nellie Taylor, Mrs. C.H. Van Arman,
Mrs. J. C. Royal, Mrs. Camilla Cobb, Mrs.
Sol Siegel,
	Mrs. C. E. Allen is corresponding secre-
tary; Mrs. H. S. Young, secretary, and
Mrs. W. P. Lynn, treasurer.


MOTHERS’ CONGRFSS IN WASH-
INGTON.

DELEGATE FROM UTAH.
	Mrs. Hannah Sorensen, director of Moth-
ers’ Conference in Salt Lake City, Utah,
made an interesting address on the “Physi-
cal Side of Motherhood.” She said she
regarded woman, in her mission as a moth-
er, as the mediator between God and man
in the greatest function of creation. The
young women and the men of today who
marry and take upon themselves the vast
responsibilities which are to last not only
through this world, but through eternity,
have no conception of what they owe to
God and to themselves. Marriage is em-
braced without an iota of knowledge of the
physical environments that make mother-
hood a glory and a song. Girls should be
educated to a proper knowledge of the re-
sponsibilities they are to undertake when
they embrace matrimony. The physical re-
demption of women would mean the glori-
fication of mankind.

DISSIPATION OF FEARS.
	All the fears and all the curses that now
so ruthlessly surround motherhood by rea-
son of the ignorance of the laws of nature
and of God would be dissipated if the young
girls were properly and purely made ac-
quainted with the physical laws they should
obey and which are to govern their future
and the future of humanity as well.
	Mrs. Sorensen spoke with a slight Ger-
man accent which made her address piquant
and interesting, but in no manner retarded
the easy flow of her strong and impressive
sentences.
	In concluding her address she made a
vigorous plea in favor of vegetarianism, de-
claring herself to be a vegetarian. She
created much amusement by stating that
she believed she was a little wiser than
when she “ate the animals up.”
	She created another round of laughter
when she said: “I am proud to be a wo-
man. I wouldn’t be a man for anything in
the world, and I wouldn’t have a man to
want to be a woman. Each has a sphere
and each is dependent upon the other.”
	Mrs. Sorensen in conclusion, paid a high
tribute to the movement and its leaders
and was applauded for several minutes.
	A discussion of the two papers was invit-
ed by the president, and an interesting in-
terchange of views was indulged in, par-
ticularly on Mrs. Schoff’s paper, by a num-
ber of the delegates.

MRS. HENSLEY’S VIEWS.
	Mrs. Sorensen’s paper was also discussed.
Mrs. Hensley who spoke from one of the
private boxes, was very earnest in her ap-
proval of the argument Mrs. Sorensen had
advanced. She said she had long been
amazed at the mock modesty which had
prevented the proper consideration of the
subject Mrs. Sorensen had so intelligently
treated.
	The Countess of Brazza, when the ap-
plause which greeted Mrs. Hensley had sub-
sided, gave a brief but interesting descrip-
tion of the advancement of practical educa-
tion of women in Europe.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GREETING SONG.

	[Dedicated by [-]he author to Mrs. Hannah J.
Bailey, on her return home after a six months' ab-
sence on acount of her health, and sung at the
May W. C. T. U. meeting.]
How close to our hearts is our white ribbon
leader.
Our dear Mrs. Bailey, so kind and so true;
How much in our Union we lovingly need her,
How gladly today we greet her anew.
We hail her with pleasure, we thank God in
Heaven,
That He has returned her in health to us now;
Our heart’s adoration to Him should be given;
In praise and thanksgiving before Him we bow.
CHORUS.
Our dearly loved leader, our white ribbon leader,
We greet you today with voice and with song.
We mourn with the nations the death of our
Frances,
America’s queen, though uncrowned until now;
Though God takes the laborers the work still ad-
vances,
As we to His will do submissively bow.
Manhood is nobler and womanhood truer,
E’en childhood is safer because of her life;
All hearts loved her fondly, all homage was due
her,
As nobly she led in our temperance strife.
CHORUS.
Our promoted comrade, our national chieftain,
Our beloved leader, advanced to a throne.
Oh, let us be doing the work of the Master,
Remember we ne’er ca[-] again pass this way;
We’ll follow our light, with no thought of [-]isaster,
Till we, too, shall reply to the roll call one day.
And there with the ransomed, the pure and the
holy,
With Christ and the angels forever to dwell,
We’ll greet Frances Willard and dear Mrs. Bailey,
And the white ribbon sisters we all love so well.
CHORUS.
Then let us, oh, let us be faithful my sisters,
And prove ourselves worthy of leaders so true.
JENNIE AMES PACKARD.
East Winthrop, May 3, 1898.


[Column 1]
WOMEN'S COUNCIL ON WAR.

	The following letter was addressed to
President McKinley several weeks ago by
Mrs. May Wright Sewall and seventeen
other officers of the Woman’s National
Council of the United States:
Hon. William McKinley,
President of the United States,
Washington, D. C.
	My Dear Sir—Learning that your friends
from all parts of the country are sending to
you expressions of their opinions on the
present crisis, and that you are desirous of
knowing the opinion of the people of the
United States, it seems to us, who repre-
sent the largest organization of women in
the United States, only just to ourselves
and to society at large to ask a moment’s
attention to our view.
	We, who believe in righteousness, and
who also believe that peace is a large ele-
ment in righteousness, have watched with
admiration and gratitude the bearing of the
Chief Magistrate of our great Republic dur-
ing these recent weeks so full of agitation
and of menace. We hear on all sides that
war will be avoided if it can be done with-
out impairing our national honor.

[Column 2]
	Dear Mr. McKinley we beg the privileg
of suggesting that, in the evolution of the
conception of honor, and of the modes by
which honor may be defended and main-
tained, our nation has made no less pro-
gress than have the men belonging to it.
It has long since ceased to be regarded as
possible that a man may find the defense of
his honor in slaying his enemy, however of-
fensive and unjustifiable the conduct of that
enemy may have been. We think that it
is equally impossible that the honor of our
nation can be maintained by the destruction
of a sister nation. We think it impossible
that the death of 260 brave and innocent
men who found death in the disaster of the
Maine can be atoned for by the death of
any number of Spaniards, or of any num-
ber of their own countrymen who should
meet and slay one another on the field of
battle.
	The organization of women which I have
the honor to represent is a federation of or-
ganizations of women, each of which is de-
voted to some work on behalf of charity,
education, religion or reform, and all of
which are united in their advocacy of the
doctrines of Social Peace and International
Arbitration.
	We feel that so soon as a man is elected
to the Presidency of the United States he is
no longer the representative merely of the
party that elected him, but that he is no
less the representative of the party that en-
deavored to defeat him. We feel also that
a man occupying the exalted position of
President of the oldest and the most power-
ful of modern Republics is no less the
representative of the women of his country
than he is the representative of the men of
his country. We also feel that the size of
our country, its numerous population, its
great wealth and the stability of its govern-
ment all unite in giving you, who are its
honored head, perfect independence of
action. We profoundly feel that the wise
and temperate maintenance of the attitude
of peace at this time by our own Govern-
ment will do much to advance a reverence
for the doctrine of peace and to inspire in
other nations the courage to practice it.
	You, President McKinley, have an op-
portunity to become, not merely the defend-
er of the rights and the honor of your own
country, but the protector and defender as
well of the sublime principle of peace for
the world.
	As it is in the name of more than one
million of women that we who represent
them send this expression of gratitude and
this petition for the maintenance of peace,
we hope that it may meet with considera-
tion; and that it may have its own feeble
share among the influences that shall hold
you firm in the midst of agitation.
I have the honor to remain
Very sincerely yours,
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
President of the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States.


ANNA GARLIN SPENCER ON THE
			WAR.

Providence, R. I., May 2, 1898.

To the Honprable Nelson W. Aldrich, and
	Messrs. Westmore, Bull, and Capron,
Senators and Representatives from Rhode
Island in the Congress of the United
States:
Respected Sirs—This communication is


addressed to you from a portion of your
constituency, namely “The Local Council 
of the Women of Rhode Island,” which is 
a delegate body representing thirty-one of
the leading educational, charitable and re-
formatory associations and institutions of 
the State and of the city of Providence 
which are managed by women, or in which 
women are prominent as officers and voting
members.
	At an executive session of this Council of
Women held April 4, the delegates present 
(representing sixteen of those organizations) 
passed unanimously the following resolu-
tions, and ordered them forwarded to you, 
Honorable Gentlemen, as the persons just 
now charged with the duty of representing 
our State in the National Government: 
	Resolved, That the women of this Coun-
cil here present view, with deep concern the 
present situation of our country in respect 
to Spanish-Cuban affairs. 
	That we beg our Rhode Island members 
of Congress to remember that the strength 
of self-control, the dignity of patience and 
the calm of balanced judgment alone give 
lasting power to a nation, as to an indi-
vidual; and we beg them also to remember 
that the gospel of universal brotherhood has 
supreme right of way in all social and ethi-
cal questions, and, therefore, that the uni-
versal peace, which is the final expression
of that gospel, should be considered sacred 
in all the deliberations of this hour, while 
the command to be “first pure” and just,
“then peaceable,” should not be ignored 
when Cuba’s sufferings and the loss of our 
own brave men stir all hearts to righteous
indignation.
	That as patriots and philanthropists we
earnestly desire to see the end of all cruelty 
and wrong; but as “human beings of the 
mother sex,” pledged by virtue of our office 
to full regard for the sacredness of human 
life and against the methods of war, we 
plead that all possible means for a peaceable 
ending of such cruelty and wrong be ex-
hausted before recourse is had to the sword, 
which, when wielded in any cause, even 
the most righteous, brings moral confusion, 
social degradation, family bereavement and 
financial loss to both the avenger and the 
evil-doer whose deeds are thus avenged. 
		ANNA GARLIN SPECNER, 
President of the Local Council of the Wo-
	men of Rhode Island. 
Mrs. E. E. Hill, Miss E. I. Nichols Secretaries,


MISS JANE ADDAMS of Chicago, in the
April International Journal of Ethics, has
an article entitled “Ethical Survivals in
Municipal Corruption.”
	A  NEW law requires all public school dis-
tricts of New York State to supply public
schools with flags, which must be displayed
during school hours on or near the schools
house.
	CLARA BARTON has started for Cuba
again with an army of women. They car-
ry food for the starving, clothing for the
naked, medicine for the sick and succor for
the dying. Surely such soldiers as Red
Cross women deserve to be voters!
	SOROSIS celebrated its thirtieth birthday
last week. The subject discussed was
"The Woman with Power." Miss Helen
M. Winslow of the N. E. W. P. A., who
was present, spoke of Lucy Stone as an ex-
ample of the woman with power, and the
allusion called out warm applause.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, - 	-	 Editor.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis- 
count regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every 
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter. 

	SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15 TO 26, 1898.


[Column 1]
EDITORS AND PEOPLE WHO READ.

	One who is engaged in newspaper work
cannot help thinking and feeling that the
people in whose interest this class of toilers
labor are very unappreciative. No matter
how earnest and diligent the efforts of editors
and reporters whose time, thought and
energies are literally absorbed in what can be
done to advocate, instruct and reform, to
keep their readers abreast of the times and
acquainted with such matters as come within
their particular province, it seems to be one
and the same unless financial success is se-
cured.
	The few who are always prompt with sub-
scriptions wonder how it can possibly be that
the paper is not more prosperous, and those
who do not trouble about paying, or move
from place to place and never pay up are
o[-]ten aggrieved at this and that, and when
newspapers are so amply illustrated many
think it an actual hardship to pay for some-
thing not so progressive, or so much in
keeping with these days of sensational
literature and pictorial illustrations, and there-
fore a very plain, modest, unassuming paper
that comes directly into the home life with-
out any flourishes or ostentation is considered
of little or no consequence, and does not
please the public.
	Financial success is not the rule in the
line of work followed by women's papers
generally, who advocate reform, in fact it is
the execption and not the rule. During
the last few years many of the newspapers
and magazines published by women have
had to suspend and others that are still strug-
gling, labor under heavy encumbrances and
great responsibilities.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston per-
haps (and indeed we might be justified in
saying) the most popular and most widely
circulated of any woman's paper in America,
entered upon its 29th year in January last,
and in an editorial note records the fact that
in 1870 when it was founded, £2,000 was
raised irom friends of the movement by the
editor, and founder, Lucy Stone, for its
capital. Within the first two years all that
capital was expended and further financial
aid was needed and was forthcoming.
And moreover it is stated “that the Woman’s
Journal has never been self-supporting. Al-
most every year its friends have had to meet
a deficit.” The recompense is in the posi-
tive advance in public sentiment, the change
of laws, customs and opinions, co-education
and various other concessions and reforms in
the establishment of political equality, munic-
ipal and school government and in every way

[Column 2]
helping on the people along these lines of
higher thought, higher education and great-
er enlightenment.
	Those who are familiar with the business
matters of the papers published in Salt Lake
City know what financial embarrassments
there have been to battle with, and how diffi-
cult it has been to keep going.
	To come down to the little paper, the
“Woman’s Exponent,” and tell its readers
how it has championed the cause of the wo-
men of this intermountain region would take
far too much time and space. Certainly
the Latter-day Saint women ought to know
and to realize that the greatest efforts have
been and are being made to keep it alive;
and surely its record has been for the eleva-
tion and education of women along all the
lines of progressive thought and general in-
formation, and the encouragement of home
industries and home culture.
	As a matter of fact some of the ablest
authors and writers among the young people
began their literary work in the columns of
the “Woman’s Exponent.” The letters that
have been received from time to time show-
ing the interest taken in this little paper are
proof direct of the importance of its mission
to those outside of the Church; and to the
sisters and Elders on missions there is abun-
dant testimony of its value. Recently the
editor received a letter from Amsterdam ask-
ing that a complete file of the “Woman’s
Exponent” be furnished for the Exhibition
which will be held at the Hague during the
coming summer of Woman’s Industries and
subjects concerning the woman’s question.
This is the fifth call of this kind, though it
is the first from a foreign country, and will
be responded to as soon as possible.
	This number of the paper completes the
26th year of its publication, and what ad-
vantage it has been to the women of this
region of country and particularly to the 
women of Zion can never be estimated.
However, let us all hope that the future
may be more hopeful, and that those en-
gaged in the various branches and along
the several lines of woman’s work and pro-
gressive thought may see the importance of
a paper that makes a specialty of recogniz-
ing women’s organizations and of keeping
in touch with the interests of women
generally and encouraging all higher, purer
and better living according to higher laws
in the home and in the great world of man-
kind.


[Column 1]
THE UTAH VOLUNTEERS.

	The hearts of the mothers, wives, sisters,
daughters and sweethearts, and of many
fathers, brothers and friends in this fair
State have been stirred to their inmost
depths during the last few days by the de-
parture from home of the Utah Volunteers,
who it is confidently expected will soon be
called into actual service in this cruel war
now in operation between Spain and the
United States. The leave takings and fare-
wells have been pathetic to say the least,
though all have tried to be brave and stout-
hearted when saying their goodbye and
“God bless you.”
	It is the first experience of the kind since
these mountain vales were settled, though
there have been Indian skirmishes in which
some have had to engage, yett hese difficult-
ies were near home and only a few were
called out and that only for a brief time;
while with those who leave now time and
place is uncertain. God grant it may be

[Column 2]
for a short period and that all may return
safely.
	If this be a righteous war, a struggle for
human liberty, then men who go forth
have a right to expect that the Lord will
over-rule and preserve those engaged in
His work. He is able to care for those who
go, on the sea and on the land, who put
their trust in Him and have faith in His
guidance and protection.
	The first company of Utah Volunteers
took their departure May 15, to join Col.
Torrey’s regiment at Ft. Russell near Chey-
enne, in charge of Gen. John Q. Cannon.
Eighty-four picked men, who were all ex-
pected to be excellent riders and good
marksmen. They went without any parade
of banners or music, no display of any sort
yet these brave boys are expected to go into
the heat of the battle, into the most danger-
ous places; it was as though the citizens did
not realize the situation; many regrets have
been expressed since that they were allowed
to go without any sort of patriotic demonstra-
tion, but while all were outwardly calm,
many fervent prayers were quietly offered
up and blessings wafted to heaven as the
train pulled out of the depot bearing the
loved ones away.
	On May 20th the two companies of artill-
ery, Battery A. and Battery B. that had been
recruiting and drilling at Camp Kent broke
camp and marched to the depot—bands of
music, flags from all the available places,
and the National Guard in uniform and
crowds of citizens and school children lined
the streets cheering and showing every dem-
onstration of respect, admiration and patriot-
ism—the University and Latter day Saints
colleges with their handsome flags and ban-
ners made a most effective display. Captain
Richard W. Young and Captain F. J. Grant
werein charge of the Companies.
	Committees of ladies who had been dili-
gently working in the interest of the Volun-
teers beforehand were at the station and
served coffee, cakes and sandwiches to offic-
ers and men, not omiting any; the cars had
been handsomely decorated by the ladies
with small flags, streamers and bunting, al-
so lilacs, snowballs and other flowers of the
season. Everything that could be done to
make it an occasion pleasant to look back
upon by the boys when far away seemed to
have been thought out and accomplished.
	The Guidons given by the Cleofan to each
campany were conspicuously in evidence
and made an attractive feature in the display
	On Tuesday, May 24, the last company
of Utah.Volunteers under Captain Caine
of the Cavalry left Camp Kent, having been
ordered to San Francisco. The day was not
very fine but yet crowds of patriotic people
waited on the streets to cheer and give them
honor as they passed on their way to the
depot on horseback in uniform, bands were
playing and banners and flags waving and
every demonstration of respect shown them
and the goodbyes farewells and God bless
you continuous and heartfelt. The cars
were beautifully decorated by the commit-
tee of ladies and the committee on refresh-
ments accompanied the Cavalry men to
Ogden and served refreshments on the
train.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ERRATA:—In the poem “Hispania” pub-
lished in the last “Exponent,” the word
liberty in the last line should have been blood.


THE Relief Society conference which had
been talked of for June has been postponed
until sometime during the first part of the
month of August next, on account of the
general confusion prevailing throughout
the West as well as the East, because of the
call for volunteers for the war with Spain.
Due notice will be given previous to the
conference when the date is decided upon.
	THE ladies of this city are working dili-
gently as a temporary organization of the
Red Cross for the Volunteers, and intend as
soon as possible to organize permanently a
Red Cross Society to become auxiliary to
the National Red Cross Society. The
president pro tem is Mrs. P. J. Riter, and
there is a secretary, corresponding secre-
tary and treasurer appointed to act until a
permanent organization is effected, also an
executive committee who are authorized to
call to their aid such other assistants as are
necessary for the work in hand.
	THE committee of ladies having in
charge the entertainment given for the
benefit of the Utah volunteers have issued
the following card of thanks: "To all
 who so generously assisted both by work
and donations, among those who should be
prominently mentioned are the following:
The Hon. Heber J. Grant, for the use of
the Salt Lake Theater, and to the attaches;
also to Mr. Mulvey for the kind offer of the
Grand Opera House for the same purpose;
to the Union Light and Power company; to
the several bands for their soul-inspiring
music; the Knights of Pythias band, Held's
band, Weihe's orchestra, the Grand orches-
tra; to the Salt Lake Opera company, Or-
pheus club, and Christensen's band; to the
Misses Emma Luut and Lucile Jennings;
to the press for their generous assistance;
the Deseret News, Tribune and Herald;
Ackerman Printing company; Utah Litho-
graphing company; Reporter Printing com-
pany; Western Bill Posting company; New
Grand Posting company; Lester Wallach;
Salt Lake Street Railway company; to the
merchants who gave so liberally, Walker
Bros. Dry Goods company, Z. C. M. I.; F.
Auerbach & Bro.; Spencer Clawson; H.
Dinwoodey Furniture company; Lace
House, Cohn Bros; R. K. Thomas; the
Syndicate; Evans the florist; L. F. Hammel
Domestic Laundry; for advertising; to the
young ladies who sold the badges, and the
boys who assisted with the decorations.
Mrs. William Rigby of the Seventh ward
of this city having heard of the work by
the ladies committee handed in $5.00 for
the cause. If any who have so kindly
rendered aid in this patriotic movement
should have been overlooked in making
this public acknowledgement, we trust they
will pardon the committee and realize that
their work has been appreciated. In behalf
of the Ladies committee, we thank one and
all who so nobly responded.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	The ladies of the U. W. P. C. met ac-
cording to adjournment April 30, 1898, in
the "Woman's Exponent" office, President
Romania B. Pratt presiding. Opening
prayer by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Roll call re-
sponded to by quotations from noted
American women.
	Under unfinished business President Pratt
stated that Margaret A. Caine had been ap-
pointed delegate to the Council of Woman's


Clubs. Under new business President
Pratt reported a meeting of the Council
held Saturday morning April 30. General
discussion followed. The Curfew law was
discussed and on motion of Lydia D. Alder
was laid over for further consideration;
seconded by Mrs. E. B. Wells and carried.
	A very pleasing and interesting paper on
Frances Elizabeth Willard was read by
Mrs. E. B. Wells. One on Emile Zola by
Helen V. Kimball was listened to with
deep interest. A poem by Lydia D. Alder
"Hispania" was sympathetic, patriotic and
timely. President Pratt made some excel-
lent remarks on the Spanish-Cuban situa-
tion and the causes given in history leading
to the present trouble, referring particularly
to Spanish tyranny and cruelty. Edith R.
Lovsey was excused from giving a paper on
Alfred Austin, poet laureate of England.
	The program was presented for next meet-
ing, minutes read, corrected and approved,
and prayer offered by Ella W. Hyde.
	Program of U. W. P. C. for May 31,
1898. Patriotic original sentiments on
war. Short talk on Alfred Austin, Edith
Lovsey. The Red Cross, Annie W. Can-
non. Royal family of Spain and the pres-
ent generals, Luella Rhodes. Current
events, including the letters sent from wo-
men's organizations concerning the war,
and a mother's letter whose son was killed
on the Maine, Mary J. Lambert.
M. A. J. LAMBERT, Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Saturday, April 16, 1898. Singing
“Oh say what is truth.” Prayer by Sister
Margaret P. Young. Singing “O, my
Father.” Counselor E. J. Stevenson pre-
sided. The minutes of the previous meet-
ing were unavoidably omitted.
	Sister Stevenson expressed her regret at
the absence of President Horne and urged
the sisters to pray that all things might be
over-ruled for good in these troublous times,
that if our young men were called out to
war they might be preserved from harm.
Referred to our late conference, thought we
had never before had such a good one where
so much good instruction was given.
	Sister Carrington prayed that the sons of
Zion might be preserved in these trying
times.
	Sister Hannah Wright felt it was good
for us to meet together, knew we would
have a good meeting, spoke upon the war
cries and expressed her fears, but said the
Lord had promised that “there should be
peace in Zion.”
	Sister Brixen spoke of her enjoyment of
the conference, felt very thankful for this
and felt that if our young men were called
out to war the ones who kept the word of
wisdom would be preserved. Said she was
going away to gather her genealogy, prayed
that she might be blessed in going and
bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy spoke of reading
the Voice of Warning, and what a grand
book it was and the amount of good teach-
ing there was in it.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt very thankful
for the privileges she enjoyed in the Gospel,
knew they were very great, and quoted the
Bible in regard to war wherein it said that
“the wicked should slay the wicked.” Said
we should pray for peace rather than war,

[Column 2]
felt if the mothers and grandmothers prayed
earnestly, that our sons would not be called
out to war, but if they were that they
would be preserved, testified that God did
hear and answer prayers and felt that Presi-
dent McKinley was very wise in taking the
course, he had.
	Sister Armeda Young spoke of teaching
our children to be peace-makers instead of
the reverse, knew there was much responsi-
bility resting upon the mothers.
	Sister Maria Nebeker said that God had
promised to be a husband to the widow,
this she had seen literally fulfilled in her
own case. Spoke of the war and said God
had promised to fight our battles, felt if our
young men were called out they would be
looked after as they were in olden times.
Said we were all in the hands of the Lord,
and prayed He would look down in mercy
upon us.
	Dr. E. S. Barney spoke of a meeting she
attended of sisters and after the meet-
ing many of them came up to her for a
blessing, and how the Spirit of the Lord
was poured out upon her, also spoke on the
war. Spoke of patriarchal blessings, urged
the sisters to have them and said there was
virtue in them. Spoke of faith, said we,
should cultivate it more than we did and
made many instructive remarks.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt impressed to
read the 98th section of the Doctrine and
Covenants, felt it was applicable to the pres-
ent time and thought President McKinley
had unknowingly carried out this plan.
Felt that every mother who prayed earnest-
ly to the Lord that her son would be pre-
served from harm if he were pressed into
service, would have her prayer answered.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon bore a strong
testimony, felt impressed that our sons
would not be called upon for active service,
we need not fear for the Lord was with us
and would continue to bless us, felt to re-
joice through it all and prayed the Lord
would bless every mother and give her.
peace.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb knew we
were greatly blessed that we could meet
here in peace when all is strife and war
outside, felt our sons would be preserved,
for the Lord’s care was over us. Testified
that there was a mighty power in prayer,
made many beautiful remarks and urged
the sisters to be faithful in their Relief
Society labors, it would benefit them.
	A sister in the congregation who was a
stranger said she would feel condemned if
she did not express her feelings. Although
a stranger in our midst she could feel the
same sweet spirit that always attends such
meetings.
	Counselor Stevenson felt we had had a
very enjoyable and beneficial time, made
some closing remarks, and meeting ad-
journed for two weeks by singing “Satan’s
empire long has flourished,” and benedic-
tion by Sister E. S. Taylor.
ZINA H. BULL, Sec.

	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall May 14, 1898, President Horne presid-
ing. Opened by singing “Lord we come
before Thee now.” Prayer by Counselor
Clara C. Cannon. Singing “Happy souls
who pray.” The secretary being absent
Sister Lydia D. Alder was called to act in
that capacity. The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and approved. Present
on the stand of the general board of the Re-


[Column 1]
lief Society were President Zina D. H.
Young and Counselor B. W. Smith.
	President Horne said she was glad to see
so many sisters present in response to the
call published. The meeting would be a
little different than usual, as a matter of
business of great importance was to be con-
sidered. “Dr. Margaret Roberts has very
generously offered to instruct a corps of
sisters in the art of nursing the sick among
us free of charge. We have counseled to-
gether and estimate that about four sisters
from each of the wards of this Stake would
make a good sized class. We think if the
Relief Society presidents and those of the
the Young Ladies Mutual would consult
together they could get such sisters as
would make good nurses, then after they
had received their education we would ex-
pect them to devote some of their time to
nursing the poor when sick in their respect-
ive wards, or if the sisters in one ward
should be out nursing, then some could be
called from another ward. None would be
expected to leave where they were nursing
until such time as the sick could be left.
This seems to us to be a step in the right
direction. The Relief Society has been
sorely taxed in the years that are past to
obtain nurses when the demand for them
was so urgent, and now Dr. Robert’s offer
to instruct this class is highly appreciated.
We spend thousands of dollars annually to
send missionaries abroad to preach the Gos-
pel, now this is an opportunity to do mis-
sionary work at home among the poor as
well as those blessed with this world’s
goods; and sisters, do not try to get the
pay for all you do in this life, be willing to
do as Jesus taught, lay up treasures in
heaven ‘Where moth nor rust cannot enter,
nor thieves break through and steal.’ Look
at our organizations; we are organized from
youth to old age, yet some cannot be con-
trolled, will be subject to no law; and so it
will be until evil is swept from the earth.
Some of our sisters are sent abroad as mis-
sionaries now, set apart for that work and,
as I read in the paper, were appointed to
their field of labor as the brethren are, but
they cannot baptize nor lay on hands for
the gift of the Holy Ghost, but neither can
our brethren who do not hold that order of
priesthood; but they can preach the Gospel
and do much good. We have our own
agency and can choose either to do good or
evil, and they cannot be controlled any
more than our Heavenly Father could
control His children in the heavens above,
when one third rebelled and were cast out
from his presence. But we should learn to
do good. When this Society was organized
in Nauvoo the Prophet Joseph instructed
us that our mission was to our own selves,
but we should always be ready to help the
poor and the weak of every color and clime
Now in this subject we are considering we
have the approbation and ‘God blessing’ of
our brethren both those of the First Presid-
ency and the Presidency of the Stake. The
course of study will consist of say three
lessons a week, and one public lecture for
the benefit of young mothers and all those
who are desirous of learning some of the
laws of life and health, also how to take
care of the children that God has entrusted
to their care. Bishop Taylor of the 14th
ward has kindly offered a room in the wing
of this building for these lectures, but a
committee was formed to call upon Prof.
Nelson of the L. D. S. Business college
with a view of securing the newly-fitted up,
beautiful lecture room for the purpose. Prof.

[Column 2]
Nelson magnamiously placed the lecture
hall at the disposal of the sisters for their
noble enterprise at such time as would be
suitable to them, and for this great favor
we of the Stake board of the Relief Society
tender him a vote of thanks, which all the
sisters, I know, will heartily endorse. Now
sisters, this hall will be free of charge un-
less we should desire to hold evening ses-
sions, when we would only have to pay for
the lights. As it is so central, and easily
reached from all the cars it will be appreci-
ated by all. It is in the Templeton and is
reached by the elevator.”
	President Horne here introduced Dr.
Roberts who said: “I pray that I may
make this matter clear to you, I feel that
the Relief Society is doing a good work,
yet I have seen so many who have lacked
good nursing that this thought entered my
heart, to aid those who could not pay in get-
ting good nurses. I am pleased that the
Relief Society board feel as I do about this
matter, it is pleasing to see and feel alike
with our sisters who have carried this bur-
den so long. I think the Relief Society
should lead out in this matter, we have
trained nurses with us today who earn $25
a week and we have good, bright young
ladies, many of them educated at our col-
leges and universities, who could become
just as competent. A nurse should know
as much as wives and mothers, and I feel
that no woman should become a mother un-
til she knows how to take care of her baby.
I am willing to devote my time to this
class and do my very best work, but I want
you to understand that the girls will neith-
er be doctors nor surgeons, but they can
be proficient in everything that can be
learned outside of a hospital. The ages of
those you select can range from eighteen to
forty, but they must be strictly, honest and
truthful, these are two grand requisites
for a nurse, I also think a nurse should be
sweet looking and sympathetic, so that the
sick one feels better as soon as she enters
the room. I think when we get through
with this class they will say that they have
some faith, for that is much required
around the sick. I commence this work
under the auspices of the Stake board of
the Relief Society, so you will know who
is behind me. Lately I have read in the
journals that 2,000 nurses have graduated for
that vocation with honor. After these sis-
ters are chosen we will meet together and
decide upon the days and the hour that
would suit the majority.”
	President Zina D. H. Young said she
heartily endorsed the movement looking to
the betterment of the poor and suffering.
“I have done this work all my life from
girlhood, I want these sisters to have wis-
dom and faith then refreshings will come
to you sisters and education too. We need
to be humble and faithful and have prayer-
ful hearts. I shall never forget while I
live and it thrills through me yet, when I
saw the Prophet Joseph turn his hand
saying ‘I now turn the key for women,’
and I testify that it has been so. If as
mothers we have obedience we will have
obedient children, those who come here to
lay up stores of knowledge; our mission is a
holy one, by coming to these meetings we
learn to know the Holy Spirit, and if as a
woman our work is well done it will be
just as acceptable as a man’s. No one on
earth respects a woman more than the Holy
Priesthood do, but let us be careful that we
do not take privileges unto ourselves that

[Column 3]
do not belong to us. I have been so care-
ful in this, never to touch what did not be-
long to me any more than I would handle
fire. Mothers look to your children and re-
member that they learn more in nine weeks
before they get here than they do in nine
years afterwards, do not be over anxious
but improve the day and the Lord will bless
Zion’s mothers and daughters.”
	Counselor B. W. Smith said she also
heartily endorsed this movement. “I hope
the sisters will rally to the call and be a ray
of sunshine in the home of the sick, good
nursing will be sought for and I pray God’s
blessing on the class.”
	President Horne said: “Now we have the
authority of Sisters Young and Smith I
would like to hear from the ward presidents
to know how they feel about it.” The
presidents of eighteen city wards and seven
country wards responded, heartily endorsed
the movement and promised aid and sup-
port inthe matter.
	Dr. Roberts said she felt that the sisters
should be called as missionaries be-
cause they wanted to do good. “I believe
the day will come when you will be proud
to wear the cap and apron of the Relief
Society corps of nurses. The course will
take from six to eight months.” Said that
she desired the work to be under the super-
vision of the Stake board of the Relief
Society whom she wished to meet with her
and the sisters chosen.
	It was voted that the presidents should
make their selection of the sisters during
the coming week, and that they meet with
Dr. Roberts and the Stake board of the Re-
lief Society at the Templeton on Saturday,
May 2, at 2 p. m. to organize. Four
students from each ward will be admitted.
The meeting was adjourned, Stake confer-
ence announced to be held in the Assembly
hall June 4, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., sing-
ing “Come let us anew,” and benediction
pronounced by Sister Lydia D. Alder.
LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

Eliza Wakefield Hawkins, daughter of
John and Annabella Park Wakefield, was
born in Fairford, Glocestershire, England,
Feb. 11, 1827. She married Wm. Hawkins
when she was eighteen years of age, re-
moved with him to Australia and remained
there two or three years. She was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in Sidney, Australia, in March,
1856, and started for Utah in 1857, arriving
in Beaver, January 1858.
	Although they had no posterity of their
own their home was never without children,
several orphans being made welcome and
regarding them as parents. These orphans
and their children who are very numerous,
deeply mourn their loss and will ever cher-
ish a loving remembrance of them.
	Sister Hawkins became a member of the
Relief Society when it was first organized
in Beaver, and labored faithfully as a teach-
er. She also filled the position of counselor
to President R. W. Tyler for several years.
She was ready to respond to every call, do-
nating liberally and was ever anxious to re-
lieve suffering being of a sympathetic nature.
	Her spirit took its flight on the 26th of
January, 1898. She had been a great suf-
ferer for a long time, and the summons to
join in the spirit world the companion who
had left her seven years previous, came as a
welcome message to her.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our beloved sister and co-laborer,
Sister E W. Hawkins, has been called from our
midst by the hand of death, and
	Whereas, She was a faithful member and teach-
er in the Relief Society, performing her part
cheerfully as long as her health would permit,
therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a kind-
hearted a[-]d generous member in our Relief Soci-
ety and a noble woman in our community.
	Resolved, That we cherish in our hearts a lov-
ing remembrance of her many virtues and strive
to emulate her good example.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the record of the Relief Society, a
copy given to the bereaved children and one sent
to the “Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
ALICE M. T. TANNER,
MARY F. WHITE,
Committee.
Beaver City, Utah, 1898.

RESOLUTIONS
	Resolutions of respect passed by the Snowville
Relief Society in memory of their beloved presi-
dent, Sister Mary Goodliffe.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His a wise
providence has seen fit to take from our midst by
the hand of death our beloved president, sister
and co-laborer, Sister Mary R. Goodliffe, be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the Snow-
ville Relief Society extend our sympathy to the
bereaved family of our worthy sister in this hour
of affliction and bereavement.
	Resolved, That we strive to emulate her many
noble deeds and cherish in our hearts that love
for her which she so truly won.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved family, a copy be in-
serted in the records of the Society and one sent
to the “Woman’s Exponent” for publication.
ESTHER A. GOODLIFFE, Sec.

SARAH A. SHEFFIELD.
	Sister Sarah A. Sheffield, daughter of Samuel
and Mary Willmer was born at Olney, Bucking-
hamshire, England, Jan. 12, 1831, joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
year 1848, and two years later was married to
James Sheffield. In 1873 they emigrated to Utah
and located in Brigham City where they resided
for eight years, they then moved to Salt Lake
City remaining there for two years and in 1884
moved to Kaysville where she resided until the
time of her death, having died March 12, 1898.
She leaves a husband and six children and a
host of loving friends to mourn her loss. She
was a faithful Latter-day Saint and for a number
of years was treasurer of the Relief Society of this
place, which office she held at the time of her
death.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in
His alwise providence to take from our midst by
the hand of death our beloved sister, Sarah A
Sheffield, be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the Relief
Society of Kaysville extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family in this sad hour of
trial.
	Resolved that we strive to emulate her many
noble deeds and cherish in our hearts that love
for her which she so truly won.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved family, one be placed
upon the record of the Relief Society and one
sent to the “Exponent” for publication.
RACHEL MANSELL, Sec.


[Column 1]
R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

TWENTY-FIRST WARD R. S.
	The directors met and the following sis-
ters were unanimously elected and set apart
by Bishop M. S. Woolley and Counselors
H. J. Foulger and Jos. Maxwell, in the
positions named below: Eliza Barton as
president by Bishop M. S. Woolley; Martha
B. Taylor as first vice-president by Counsel-
or H. J. Foulger; Frances L. Castleton as
second vice-president by Counselor Jos
Maxwell; Mary A. Tuddenham as secre
tary by Bishop M. S. Woolley; Helen B

[Column 2]
Lyon as treasurer by Counselor H. J.
Foulger. On motion of Sister Castleton
Sister Eliza Barton was sustained as execu-
tive committee, to transact all necessary
business between stated meetings.
H. J. FOULGER, Sec. pro tem.

WEBER STAKE
	The minutes of the Relief Society confer-
ence held in the 3rd ward of Ogden City,
March 10, 1898. At the morning session
those present on the stand were President
Jane S. Richards and her counselors, Sister
Harriet Brown and Sister Emily Shurtliff
President Zina D. H. Young, Sister
Lightner and Sister Emily S. Richards of
Salt Lake City.
	Sister Richards was pleased to see so
many here this morning and desired that we
might be blessed and put into practice the
good things that we hear.
	Remarks were made by Counselors Har-
riet Brown and Emily Shurtliff.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the
meeting, said when she looked over the
congregation and saw before her faces that
had gone through trials and hardships in
days gone by, she felt that the sisters had
met to be fed spiritual food, and that the
Lord gave us lessons of experience that we
might gain spiritual strength; spoke of the
time when the Saints were on the move and
of the sickness that was among them, and
how the healing power was given to the
Prophet Joseph. She wanted the mothers to
teach the daughters purity and love and the
principles of the Gospel of Christ
	Sister Emily S. Richards was the next
speaker and said she felt very happy to meet
with the sisters, was almost too full to ex-
press her feelings. She knew that the Lord
loved His people but felt we were rather
slothful in our duties; spoke to the mothers
about reading to their children that their
little minds might be filled with good things.
	Sister Lightner said she knew we had been
blest by the instruction given this morning
and felt we should be thankful to our Heaven-
ly Father for every blessing we enjoy, we
have received the Gospel and should strive
with all our hearts to do our duty that we
may have unity of soul and partake of all its
blessings, prayed that the Lord would
strengthen us today.
	Elder Nathan Tanner spoke to the sisters
and gave them some good counsel, advised
them to call upon the Lord for His healing
power.
	Afternoon session. Opened by singing
“We thank Thee O, God for a prophet.”
Roll was called, twenty-one presidents were
present. Among the speakers were Sisters
Hunter, Dance, Newman, West, Monch and
Driver.
	Sister Zina D. Young spoke on our sacred
prayers, visiting the sick and suffering to
comfort them, hoped to see the day when
the sisters would have a house dedicated to
the Lord for the sisters to meet in, spoke of
the Savior and what He suffered for us, ad-
vised the sisters to pay their tithing and
never neglect to watch and instruct their
daughters, said we were all in a school and
our Heavenly Father was the teacher, asked
the Lord to bless us all.
	Elder George Larkin was the next
speaker, said he was struck by a remark of
Sister Young’s, that we should listen to the
promptings of the Holy Spirit that we might
have power over our children, encouraged
the sisters to be faithful to the cause of truth.
	President Jane S. Richards felt the day

[Column 3]
was too short but realized we could have
good reflections when night came, and asked
the Lord to bless all the sisters with the
spirit of the Gospel.
	The officers of the Relief Society were pre-
sented and sustained and conference adjourn-
ed for three months by singing the Doxology
C. E. DRIVER. Asst. Sec.

WEST BRANCH PRIMARY.
	According to request I send you the min-
utes of a meeting held in the Scandinavian
meeting house on May 4, 1898, for the pur-
pose of organizing a branch Primary Asso-
ciation to be known as the West Branch
Primary Association of South Cottonwood.
Present on the stand were Brothers Thomas
Wheeler and John Labrun of the bishopric,
also Brothers Charles Holm and D. B.
Jones, Sisters Camilla C. Cobb and Mary
L. Morris of the Primary Association of
the Salt Lake Stake presidency, also Sisters
S. A. Brown, M. Carruth and Labrun,
Sister S. A. Brown presiding. Singing
“Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer by
Brother T. L. Wheeler. Singing “Come
all ye sons of Zion.” Sister Elizabeth H.
Lyon, was then chosen to act as secre-
tary.
	Brother T. L. Wheeler was then called
upon to make a few opening remarks which
were very timely and instructing. He
was followed by Brother John Labrun who
gave very good instruction to parents and
officers who would be called to preside.
Brother C. Holm was the next speaker.
He said for one that he realized the neces-
sity of a branch of the Primary Association
in the west part of South Cottonwood
ward.
	Brother B. Jones was the next
speaker. He said we had several branch
organizations, and was pleased to see a
branch of the Primary Association organ-
ized as our ward was much loo large. He
was united with the previous speaker.
	Sister Camilla Cobb was the next speaker.
She spoke very encouragingly and urged
the sisters to be united and realize the im-
portance of training the children. Said to
be prayerful and humble and requested the-
sisters to unite in faith that the right sisters
might be chosen to preside in this Associa-
tion.
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt that the move
being made was one in the right direction
and gave much wise counsel.
	The name of Sister Mary E. Gilbert was
then presented by Sister Camilla Cobb as
president of the new Primary. The privi-
lege was then given to Sister Gilbert to
choose her own counselors by Brother
Wheeler. The choice fell upon Sister
Sarah Ella Jones for first counselor and Sis-
ter Antoinette Stromness for second. Pre-
vious to the choice of counselors the
name of Sister Elizabeth H. Lyon was pre-
sented by Sister Cobb as secretary for the
West Branch. The above sisters were
voted in.
	Sister Cobb urged the officers to be
prompt in their attendance at meetings and
to take a lively interest in the same, for
there was no greater work in the Church of
Jesus Christ than teaching the little ones.
Said it was work that would pay and prayed
the Lord to bless the efforts of the sisters in
charge.
	Sister Mary E. Gilbert expressed her will-
ingness to act as president of the West
Branch Primary and by the help of the
Lord to do her very best.


The above named sisters were then set
apart to their respective offices. President
Mary E. Gilbert announced that meetings
would be held Tuesday afternoons at four
o’clock. The South Cottonwood Primary
presented the West Branch with one dozen
Primary hymn books, note book and pen-
cil, for which a vote of thanks was given.
The books were handed in by Sister Sarah
A. Brown. The name of Sister Mary H.
Berg was presented as assistant secretary by
sister C. Cobb, and the vote was carried.
	Meeting adjourned until Tuesday, May
10. Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
Brother John Labrun.
ELIZABETH H. LYON, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUR PROPHET.

	Will you allow me to tell you that you
are not acquainted with Mormonism until
you learn who our prophet is, and what
the errand was which he brought to this
world? You will remember that John the
Baptist came to prepare the way for our
Savior when he came the first time, teach-
ing them to repent for the kingdom of
heaven was at hand. He also said they
should bring forth fruits meet for repen-
tance, for according to the old proverb:
“Actions speak louder than words,” and
show your sincerity.
	Then came the publicans to be baptized,
saying “Master what shall we do?” Luke
3rd chapter, 12th verse. He said, “Exact
no more than that which is appointed you.”
And the soldiers asked him, saying “And
what shall we do?” and he answered, “Do
violence to no man, neither accuse any false-
ly; and be content with your wages.”
Thus teaching them to “deal justly, love
mercy and walk humbly.” These being the
prominent features of our lesson which
Jesus taught to bring peace on earth and
good will to humanity.
	Now we learn in Acts, 1st chapter 9th,
10th, 11th verses, that “A cloud received
Him out of their sight, and two men in
white apparel stood by who said, ‘Why
stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same
Jesus which is taken up from you, shall so
come in like manner as ye have seen Him
go up into heaven.’ ”
	We also have the testimony of those
apostles with whom he was speaking, and
telling them of the comforter, the Holy
Ghost, he would send to them. Can we
doubt their words? Oh no! we know he
will come in like manner as they saw him
go up; and we also know that our prophet
Joseph Smith has come to prepare his way
before him again, and the message he
brings is an important one I can assure you.
	He tells us the same that we read in
Holy Writ, that our Savior will bring a
company with him at the time of his
second advent, and must find a people of
the same character as those who come with
him. Yes they must be purified and sanc-
tified by the same laws that his disciples
were, and all those who love and obey his
laws will rejoice and arise to meet them and
welcome them in joy and rejoicing, to be-
hold his face and hear his voice.
	This people St. Peter tells us must be
pure, for God is pure; they must be holy,
for he is holy. They must worship him in
spirit and in truth, for he seeketh such to
worship him.
	Now I would ask do not you think it
necessary for a prophet to come to prepare
such a people for this, great event? Do


you think such a people could be found in
these last days without a teacher? Food
for thought.
ZION’S CONVERT.


LITERARY CLUB ELECTION.

	The Last meeting for 1897-98 of the
Ladies’ Literary club was held on Friday.
It was a business session only, and the
principal event of interest was the annual
election of officers. All retiring officers
made reports on the season’s work. The
election resulted in the following
roster: Mrs. Eugene Lewis president; Mrs.
William Ingleheart, first vice-president,
Mrs. L. E. Hall, second vice-president;
Mrs. Clara Colton, recording secretary; Mrs.
G. R. Hancock, corresponding secretary;
Mrs. E. B. Critchlow, treasurer; Miss Ethel
Paul, critic; Mrs. J. C. Royle, historian;
Mrs. S. F. Fenton, librarian; Miss. Emma
McCornick, Mrs. T. G. Webber, Mrs, H.
W. Brown, directors for one year; Mrs. W.
A. Nelden, Mrs. F. A. Vincent, Mrs. R.
C. Woodruff, directors for two years.
	The section chairmen had been previous-
ly named. Some changes in the sections
have been made, the art section being dis-
continued and two new ones created,
music and French. The sections with their
chairmen are: History, Mrs: J. H. Brown;
tourist, Mrs. R. C. Woodruff; Shakespeare,
Mrs. John Caine; home and educational,
Mrs. G. F, Stiehl; current events and litera-
ture, Mrs. S. W. Morris; music, Mrs. W.
A. Nelden; French, Mrs. Eugene Lewis.


THE WOMEN’S MEETING IN DENVER
SPECIAL EXCURSION.
	The women who intend going to Denver
for the Federation meeting should by all
means use the Rio Grande Western Rail-
way. This line in addition to being a home
institution with headquarters, shops, etc.,
in Salt Lake City, presents countless at-
tractions in the way of scenery, train
service, etc. A delightful trip can be ar-
ranged without additional coat by using the
Rio Grande Western in connection with
either the standard gauge lines of the
Colorado Midland or Denver & Rio
Grande R. R. via Glenwood, Leadville, the
Royal Gorge or Manitou in one direction
and the narrow gauge line of the D. & R.
G. by way of the Marshall Pass and the
Black Canon in the other. The round trip
rate via any combination of the three dis-
tinct scenic routes of the R. G. W. Ry. has
been fixed at $20.00. Tickets on sale June
19th and 20th. It is expected a large num-
ber of the eastern women in attendance at
the meeting will take advantage of an ex-
cursion to Ogden and Salt Lake City via the
Rio Grande Western.


CLARA BARTON contributes to the North
American Review an account of her relief
work in Cuba.
	THE Outlook has secured the services of
Mr. George Ken[-]an, vice-president of the
American Red Cross, as a member of its
staff duri[-]g the war.
	MRS. ELLEN SPENCER MUSSEY of Wash-
ington is the attorney for the National Red
Cross, of which Miss Clara Barton is presi-
dent.


Save Your Money!
And when you get a do[-]lar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
	We pay FIVE PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
WlLFORD WOODRUFF, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Midwifery Classes.
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi - annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
Teaches two classes yearly in Ob.
stetrics and Nursing, beginning just
after the spring and fall Conference
Special opportunities and prices are
given to Societies sending students,
and also to those who have had
previous study.
	For full particulars please com-
municate either personally or by
letter with
ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D
75 Center Street, Salt Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

