[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: My | Author: Wilkerson]
Ik roots of gna gouth—Cowslip called because of the large bed of ips that clustered about MY PARADISE—COWSLIP HOLLOW the stream near the mouth of it. This hollow was my paradise. In it lived all anyone's imagination could create.. There was little Yosemite Falls, which I used often for a shower bath. Not far from this, the great throne, on which one sat and imagined herself a queen. But best of all was the stage just below, with its organ behind it, its choir seats that tiered the whole hillside. When you were standing in the pit ready to conduct this choir, directly behind you and half a mile across the valley, were the great red ledges to echo and amplify the choir. I found a beautiful tapered willow, and with this I led my choir. I had learned to whisper, and the soprano would whisper back. I could, if I was careful, pitch every part, and the choir would sing, and then the red ledges would answer back. The hills would come alive, and all those seats would fill, and we would sing, and I would thrill from head to toe. This day, after my choir had ren-. Dered an anthem, and before the strains had fully died away, I turned and saw, sitting on his horse watching me, Duchesne George. His long black braids fell over each Shoulder, and the familiar weatherbeaten face smiled kindly. He 191 nodded and pointed to the hills above and behind me and said, "You make 'em all talk, make talk more." I smiled and nodded. Half forgetting my audience, I decided to play an organ interlude. I whispered, my hillside organ whispered, and far across the valley the red ledges whispered back. I went from note to note, releasing all I could remember of what the birds had told me in the early dawn. With the organ playing bird music, my great choir burst into song. I stood in my make-believe cathedral, a master of music, a composer of song. Again, as the last tremor of the organ was dying away, I looked behind me, for in my triumph I had forgotten the gentle Indian. He was gone. I could see him slowly riding south on the dusty road. The shadows of evening were gathering; already my cathedral was chill, I mounted my pony and started my charges up the hill. We pushed our way over the topmost ridge and came through the cluster of cedars. The Master Painter was dipping the western sky with deep purple and flecking it with crimson and gold. In the east, behind us, the cotton clouds were touched with pink, and they floated softly in the blue dome of the sky. ><. - Bae Vesta N. Lukei Without An island shore To edge with foam, the sea Lies barren as a meadow with No tree. Chloe Call Later Makes Her Own Quilt Designs Chloe Call Later, Rigby, Idaho, who recently celebrated her sixty-fourth birthday, has designed many silk quilts and other articles of exquisite handwork. She is an artist in free-hand design, and no two of her quilts are alike. Her patterns range from lovable bunnies to a "proposal under a weeping willow tree." This love of artistic expression began when Mrs. Later was a girl in Primary, when she pieced blocks to make a quilt top and presented the finished article to a needy family in the ward, Her first baby quilt, or carriage robe, was made in 1928 for her first grandchild. Since that date she has designed and made over two hundred silk quilts. She has also assisted in making hundreds of quilts in Relief Society and has directed the making of many other quilts. A soft, golden silk quilt is now being completed by Mrs. Later in anticipation of the graduation of one of her granddaughters. Each of her children, and every married grandchild has, to this date, received one of her lovely silk quilts. Mrs. Later's talents and industry also extend to many other types of handwork, including crocheting, embroidery, and the making of exquisite bags and greeting cards. Mrs. Later has served in all of the Church auxiliary organizations, except the Sunday School. Her Relief Society activities have been extensive, including eight years as work director for Rigby Stake Relief Society, five years as president in Bremerton, Washington, ten years as a member of the sewing committee in Rigby Second Ward, and thirty-six years as a visiting teacher, Mrs. Later is mother to nine children, grandmother to eighteen, and great-grandmother to two. She also does genealogy work and sings in the ward and stake choirs. —_- Comneunivation Dora Toone Brough Prayer is a key God gave to us Whereby we might commune with him; To seek for wisdom, peace, and truth, And keep faith's light from growing dim. Page 192 a first-class du windows, it looks like a beautiful view > Making them seem as © Tetaining wal] Makes Test of the garden, 4S livable as_ the Page 193