[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Today I | Author: Openshaw]
Today I Reveal Them Rose A. Openshaw O one can steal the treasures of my childhood, which I have kept locked in a jewelled box in a remote corner of my heart. The jewels are composed of hope and joy and tears, and today, for the first time, I shall take them out one by one and reveal them. Some of them, perhaps, may strike an echo in your own soul, for no doubt you have treasures that are quite similar. These treasures are priceless; and while once they were concrete acts or objects or words, through memory they have resolved themselves into cherished scenes or pictures, and of these was the fulness of my childhood composed. It was composed of being carried on my father's shoulders to church, until the gash in my foot, cut on broken glass in a stream, mended; or of mother holding the injured part over a plate of live coals, from which smoke from burning sugar twirled and swirled upward, to cure it. Of finding a beautiful doll with brown hair and eyes on the only Christmas tree we ever had, long stockings hung from mantels over the fireplace being the usual order. Of hugging in rapture the wooden cradle my father in his tenderness made for my doll. Or being unable to play, or scarcely to eat when mother's head ached; and of worrying and praying for her all the day long, when she made the horse and buggy trips to Phoenix, for sometimes the horse was balky and she might get hurt! Page 194 Of corn-roasts in which neighbors of all ages took part, and of the glorious game of "Run-Sheep-Run," played by all of us afterwards. Of my chum and I being commended by our teachers for "always being prepared," and so privileged for out-of-door study. Of the fig tree between our homes where we nailed a box and daily placed notes when we couldn't visit each other. Of being surprised, when I was ill, by the gift, from my sister Delta, of a gorgeous jade velvet hood, lacedecorated in ecru, for my doll, which has endeared my sister to me through all the long years that have followed. Of helping my brother Frank locate and repair weak places in fences, working with redoubled energy after his words of praise that I was better help than the boys he had had. Of getting up entertainments, aided by my chum, to which the entire village paid a nickel admission charge. Much of the program, of dialogues, tableaux, readings, and welcoming speeches was composed by ourselves. Of being present for a campfire meal just as the desert's shadows were growing purple-faced from stretching their long lmbs before retiring, and of smelling the aroma of potatoes, onions, and _ bacon stewing together, and the fragrance of hot bread fresh from a_bakeoven. Of standing around with my lit- TODAY I REVEAL THEM tle friends wondering if any food would be left, when the General Authorities from Salt Lake, or the county school superintendent, were served hot biscuits, mashed potatoes, stewed chicken, and gravy, and creamy rice pudding (as only my mother could make), and the table refused to accommodate all at one time. F' tying, with my chum, in a Book of Mormon chapter-reading contest, and winning a beautiful, pearl-handled pen. Of picking turkeys, both at Thanksgiving and Christmas, to earn money for Christmas presents for my parents. (Hard was the work for tender hands.) Of sponsoring sewing clubs so we could make pincushions and other items for gifts out of scraps of silks and ribbons. It was such joy to give! And of my most dreaded task of all—taking milk five miles away to the dairy in the old buckboard (buggy) mornings. Five miles distant the dairy stood, and there was' much to intimidate a small girl along the way. Of gathering plums with the first tint of rose on their cheeks and burying them in a shallow hole in the moist earth, supposed to hasten ripening, then of digging them every day to see if they had matured. Of helping my married sister, Etta, whose health was poor, with her laundry and dishes, and keeping her company nights, homesick to the core of my being for mother, 195 with our house less than a block away. Of riding to a Phoenix circus in the back of a wagon—seeing the strange animals and the unbelievable performance, and being treated at the noon-hour to what seemed a meal of meals—baker's bread and bologna. Of visiting the ostrich farm in Phoenix, seeing the long, graceful plumes milliners fastened together to adorn hats and of seeing the huge, ivory-colored, massive-shelled eggs firsthand. And of the incomparable happiness of hunting the first wild Howers of spring. Oh, the exultation that swelled my heart in the joy of discovering the fragile, fragrant blooms! Comparable it is today to finding glorious truths concealed in the tall green grass of books and sermons. Yet while these shall live on eternally, the flowers wilted before we finished our mile-long trek! Too, how we thrilled to the loveliness of the first tiny eggs in the well-woven, basket-like nests, hidden away in the leaf-fluffy trees. Oh, mine was a happy childhood —a happy, carefree existence, and made more so by the knowledge of the abiding love and unity existing between my parents, for never to my knowledge, did one unkind word ever pass between them. And I thank them—thank the dear ones from the bottom of my heart for saving me the heartaches, the stabbing grief and pain that would have cut so deeply into tender hearts had it been otherwise. MN The Deeper Melody CHAPTER 6 Alice Morrey Bailey Synopsis: Steven 'Thorpe, a widower with three small children, is m love with Margaret Crain, a registered nurse who has taken care of his baby during an attack of pneumonia. Margaret's mother, a widow, is temporarily acting as Steven's housekeeper, and Margaret has accepted the position of night superintendent at the hospital until her marriage to Dr. Rex Harmon. In the meantime Steven has been made vice-president of the Pikes Peak Machinery Company and finds him. Self unwillingly accepting invitations from Miss 'Tate, his secretary. One night as Steven and Miss 'Tate are leaving the theatre they meet Margaret and Dr. Harmon. TEVE, had never seen Margaret S out of uniform before, and he noticed how stunning she was, a second before he recognized her. From looking coldly elegant beside her partner, she suddenly turned radiant when she saw Steve. "Steve!"