[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: Announcing | Author: Issue]
[Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue]
scribed him  as  "a  Man  .  .  .  clothed 
in  a  white  robe."  He  announced 
himself  as  "Jesus  Christ,  whom  the 
prophets  testified  shall  come  into 
the  world."  They  saw  him,  they 
heard  him,  and  at  his  invitation 
they  all  "went  forth,  and  thrust 
their  hands  into  his  side,  and  did 
feel  the  prints  of  the  nails  in  his 
hands  and  in  his  feet,"  and  knew 
of  a  surety  and  did  testify  that  he 
was  the  resurrected  Redeemer. 
(See  3  Nephi  11:7-15.) 
As  he  revealed  himself,  after  his 
resurrection,  to  his  followers  in  the 
Holy  Land  and  to  the  Nephites  in 
America,  so  he  has  revealed  him- 
self in  our  day.  Indeed,  this  dis- 
pensation opened  with  a  glorious 
vision  in  which  the  Prophet  Joseph 
was  visited  by  the  Father  and  the 
Son.  He  heard  their  voices,  for  they 
both  spoke  to  him.  He  was  given

THE  RESURRECTION  OF  JESUS  215 
a  personal  introduction  to  the  res-  am  he  who  Hveth,  I  am  he  who  was 
urrected  Jesus  by  the  Father  him-  slain;  I  am  your  advocate  with  the 
self.    He  beheld  their  glorious  bod-  Father."  (D.  &  C.  110:1-4). 
ies   and   afterwards   thus   described  From     the     foregoing     accounts 
them:  'The  Father  has  a  body  of  come  our  mental   pictures  of   the 
flesh  and  bones  as  tangible  as  man's;  resurrected  Jesus.    But  the  convic- 
the  Son  also"  (D.  &  C.  130:22).  tions  we  have,  our  testimonies  that 
Some  twelve  years  later  the  Sav-  in  the  spirit  world  he  was  chosen 
ior    revealed    himself    to    Joseph  and  ordained  to  be  our  Redeemer; 
Smith,    Jr.,    Sidney    Rigdon    being  that  he  was  born  of  Mary,  the  Only 
with   him.     They   two  bore  testi-  Begotten  Son  of  God  in  the  flesh; 
mony  'That  he  lives!     For,"  said  that  he  suffered  for  our  transgres- 
they,   "we  saw  him,   even  on  the  sions;  that  on  the  cross  he  volun- 
right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  tarily  gave  his  life  for  us;  that  in 
the  voice  bearing  record  that  he  is  the  resurrection  he  broke  the  bonds 
the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father"  of   death   for  himself  and   for   all 
(D.  &  C.  76:22-23).  men;    that   he   arose   an    immortal 
In     the    Kirtland    Temple    the  soul,   the  first  fruits  of  the  resur- 
Prophet  saw  him  again,  this  time  rection,    appearing    first    to    Mary 
in  company  with  Oliver  Cowdery:  Magdalene  and  then  to  the  others 
"The   veil   was   taken   from   our  as  recorded;  that  he  visited  the  Ne- 
minds,"  they  wrote,  "and  the  eyes  phites;    and   that   he   has   revealed 
of  our  understanding  were  opened,  himself  in  this  dispensation  to  Jo- 
We  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon  seph    Smith    and    others— do    not 
the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit,  before  come   alone   from   these   accounts, 
us;  and  under  his  feet  was  a  paved  Our    own    convictions    and    testi- 
work   of   pure   gold,   in   color  like  monies  come  by  the  witness  of  the 
amber.    His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  Holy  Spirit,   the  Holy  Ghost,   by
