[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Fiction | Title: A | Author: Luce]
[A Sunken Window Garden by Celia Luce]

These treasures are priceless; and while once they were concrete acts or objects or words, through memory they have resolved themselves into cherished scenes or pictures, and of these was the fulness of my childhood composed. It was composed of being carried on my father's shoulders to church, until the gash in my foot, cut on broken glass in a stream, mended; or of mother holding the injured part over a plate of live coals, from which smoke from burning sugar twirled and swirled upward, to cure it. Of finding a beautiful doll with brown hair and eyes on the only Christmas tree we ever had, long stockings hung from mantels over the fireplace being the usual order. Of hugging in rapture the wooden cradle my father in his tenderness made for my doll. Or being unable to play, or scarcely to eat when mother's head ached; and of worrying and praying for her all the day long, when she made the horse and buggy trips to Phoenix, for sometimes the horse was balky and she might get hurt! Page 194 Of corn-roasts in which neighbors of all ages took part, and of the glorious game of "Run-Sheep-Run," played by all of us afterwards. Of my chum and I being commended by our teachers for "always being prepared," and so privileged for out-of-door study. Of the fig tree between our homes where we nailed a box and daily placed notes when we couldn't visit each other. Of being surprised, when I was ill, by the gift, from my sister Delta, of a gorgeous jade velvet hood, lacedecorated in ecru, for my doll, which has endeared my sister to me through all the long years that have followed. Of helping my brother Frank locate and repair weak places in fences, working with redoubled energy after his words of praise that I was better help than the boys he had had. Of getting up entertainments, aided by my chum, to which the entire village paid a nickel admission charge. Much of the program, of dialogues, tableaux, readings, and welcoming speeches was composed by ourselves.