[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: The Lifeblood of Relief Society by Marianne C. Sharp]
Virginia had accepted the picture hastily, handed over the money, and got rid of him almost before he realized it, for she had seen John coming and remembered the threat. She hated scenes. John said, "How do you do," and the canvasser answered, "How do you do," and drove away. John came on quietly into the house, as Virginia drew a long breath. Simultaneously they turned, and there was the picture of John propped carefully against the kitchen door. "What the...?" began John, but Virginia cried, "Oh, that man—the picture doesn't look a bit like you, John. See the dark hair and the mustache! Oh, John, I'm so sorry." John only stared at the picture.. The handsome face so unlike him in color, and yet there were the merry blue eyes and the dimple, which John noted, silent, but inwardly pleased. Virginia broke in, "It's just horrid, John, and I accepted the money to pay for it to surprise you." "And I love you dearly," John said, putting his arms around her. "It's not so good, darling, but we'll hang it up along with yours." And he did. She Tveniean Red Cross and Lis Program 6 Tue Red Cross personifies, as nearly as any organization of which I can think, those great and noble virtues of man that are the richest heritage from the Almighty." Thus spoke President Dwight D. Eisenhower at the dedication ceremonies at the new District of Columbia Red Cross Chapter House on October 1, 1953. "We have many examples nowadays of man's selfishness, man's brutality and inhumanity to man, man's readiness to forget the golden rule and to live by some standard that he thinks will immediately advantage him at the expense of his fellows," the President said. "We have this in the international field. We have it far too often and discouragingly among groups or classes at home. 'The Red Cross, the nature of its slogan, of its purposes, the work that has been done through it, and the people that belong to it, bring to us, as we tend to gather discouragement ab