[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: On the | Author: Paul]
[On the Quiet by Velma Mackay Paul]

She wondered if their parents ever fully realized the immense amount of good these lads did out here in the mission feld. Nothing a convert could ever do could ever repay them for the great blessing of the gospel that they brought. It was sad to see them go, for you came to love them as your own sons. But how nice for them to be once more with their own folks. Hurrying along the next week, Prue realized she was going to be late. She entered the classroom and saw all were seated and the lesson about to begin. Mr. Bell smiled 4 welcome at her, saying, "Here's Mis. Martin now." She looked wonderingly at him as they greeted her with applause, and he explained, "When you didn't come last week, and were not here at your usual time tonight, we were afraid you had left us, so that is just an expression of their relief that you are still coming." 157 She took the chair he indicated, only to find she was sitting next to Graham North. Smiling at him, she got out her books. HER talk that night was impromptu, and she realized herself that it wasn't good, so when Graham was called on to criticize, she braced herself for what she knew would be coming. But, somehow it was different. Gone was the sarcasm in Graham's voice—it was soft and pleasant—and he was showing her, in a kindly way, where her faults lay. 'Then he concluded that he appreciated the kindness and toler ance that she gave to all of them. When called upon to give his own talk, the class sat quiet. Here was a Graham they did not know. Instead of opening in the loose, bantering way in which he usually did, his voice was firm and clear, as though he had a message to deliver. He compelled their complete attention as he went from point to point, likening his work as an architect to that of the work of Christ. Prue stared at him. Was this the man who had always spoken so lightly of moral standards? Classwork over, he leaned toward her, "How did you like the way I brought in religion tonight?" he asked. With eyes shining, she said, with all sincerity, "I thought it was fine." He put his hand on her shoulder, saying seriously, "Listen, girl, you ve got the only answer for the troubles of this world. I've tried hard to find your weak spot, but you ve always given me back sweetness and understanding. You're a good missionary for Christ, and do you know what? I've started reading the 158 Bible again, something I haven't done for years, and I can read it now with a new understanding." Leaving the college building, Prue's eyes were full of tears, and her heart overflowing with gratitude that she was privileged to be a member of the Church that had the restored gospel. 'There came to her mind a little legend she had once heard of the nativity of Christ. The whole world was full of wonder the night Christ was born—the animals gave of their breath to warm the air, the flowers gave of their fragrance to give it sweetness, the birds gave their song, and the butterflies their color. But the poor, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 humble little worm had nothing to give, so he picked up a fallen petal, and crawled painstakingly to the manger where the Christ child lay. In turning, the babe touched the worm and to this day it glows so that it is called the glowworm. The touch of Christ can make us all glow, thought Prue, and maybe this is what President Clark meant, when he told us to save the world. To keep that spirit of Jove and understanding so bright within ourselves, by adhering to the principles that we are taught—then would our lights so shine before men, that they would be drawn by their brilliance. <>< Ruth MacKay, Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, appears for the first time as a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, with her offering "One Sweetly Solemn Thought." A convert to the Church, Mrs. MacKay, has traveled in many parts of the world. "I am an Australian," she tells us, "and this story is the first one submitted, the only other publication being an article, 'We Seek After These Things' published in The Relief Society Magazine in 1951. I am at present working on a book. [ arrived in the United States last June, and proceeded to Canada for the wedding of one of my daughters, of whom I have three: Ruth, married, and living in Australia; Joan, married, and living in Canada; and Yvonne, studying at Brigham Young University. For nearly two years, after the return to the United States of Sister Myrtle G. Cliistensen, because of ill health, I acted as president of the Australian Mission Relief Society. I am an accountant by profession, being formerly head of the administration and finance of the Press Attache's office of the Netherlands Legation in Australia." _- Against the Da rk Ouida Johns Pedersen Hyacinths, fragrant tapers of the spring, Kindle the ground to new remembering; New seedlings force their tender roots in stone Crevices to splinter granite bone. Then waking turf renews its emerald sea; Refutes once more the grave's finality. Seeing once again the earth's reprieve From darkness, we are strengthened—and believe. Shrubs for Your Garden Dorthea Newbold Deseret News Garden Editor just can't go wrong with them unless you plant them too close together and fail to give them a yearly pruning. You can have a whole garden of shrubs, colorful the year around. You can use them to give your garden complete privacy, to separate one section from the other, and, best of all, the shrub garden is easy to maintain and inexpensive. Shrubs are woody plants of bushy habits, developing several stems instead of a trunk as does a tree. 'They are a permanent part of the garden, yet, surprisingly, little thought or imagination is given to the selection and arrangement of shrubs. 'Too many shrubbery plantings are dull part of the year. One reason for this is the monotonous over-planting of a few well-known kinds. The overplanting of Spirea Van Houtti is an example. Every garden has its own peculiarities and some varieties of shrubs will not thrive in it, but there is such a wealth of material to choose from that there is no excuse for the overplanting of one variety. Before making a selection of shrubs consider the location, and the exposure, whether the shrubs will be in sun or shade; whether you have heavy soil which retains the moisture or soil that is light and dry. Consider, too, the amount of space to be filled, for this will determine whether you will select a dwarf, medium, or large-growing type of shrub. A good nursery catalogue will give you A shrub is anybody's plant. You the size the shrub will attain at maturity. With wise selection of shrubs, you can screen out unsightly views, make mass plantings, have a flowering hedge, or divide your garden area into rooms for greater beauty. At the same time you will shut off, to a degree, the noises from a busy street, creating a beautiful retreat for family and friends. Foundation plantings using deciduous shrubs offer the gardener an opportunity to create a planting that is original and suitable to his own home. With thought and careful placing of shrubs, he will have a planting that will not be seen around every other house along the street. Flowering shrubs planted close together for a hedge should be left unclipped, but should not be allowed to. Grow without a yearly pruning so they become an unsightly tangle. N areas where winters are severe, no flowers are more welcome than those which appear early in the year. Pussywillows—one clump of them—will prove to be a delight to young and old, for who can resist the charm of those gray catkins as they emerge from their brown winter coats. Fortunate are those who can succeed with witch hazel — its lovely blooms come so early in the year to signal that spring is on its way. Daphne cneorum is a choice plant for edgings for the shrubbery border or for rock gardens.