[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Program]
[The American Red Cross and Its Program]

I think that is very wise advice, not only in the Relief Society but in the quorums of the Priesthood and everywhere else within the Church. We should guard the character of every member. We should see that there are no injustices done. Again, on March 30, 1842, he said: None should be received into the society but those who are worthy. All difficulties which might and would cross our way must be surmounted. Though the soul be tried, the heart faint and hands hang down, yet we must not retrace our steps. That sympathy alone must not decide our judgment. All must act in concert or nothing can be done. Sisters should move as did the ancient Priesthood, in unity. It should be a select society, separate from all the ills of the world, choice, virtuous, and holy. The society was to assist by directing the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community and save the Elders the trouble of rebuking and that they might have their time for other duties. Now, that is from the history. There are a great many duties, responsibilities, that are given to our sisters, not all of them are included in these items that I have read. It is the duty of the Relief Society, not only to look after those who are members of the Relief Society, but their labor should extend beyond those borders. Wherever anybody is in trouble, needs help, in difficulties, sick or afflicted, we call upon the Relief Society. According to the words of the Prophwould be a wonderful thing 15) et here, "It is their duty also to assist in seeing that there is no iniquity in the Church." I take it that those labors would rest more particularly upon them in relation to the sisters of the Church, and they can perform a great and wonderful work by encouraging the wayward, helping them, bringing them back into activity, helping them to overcome their weaknesses or sins and imperfections, and _ bringing them to an understanding of the truth. I say there is no limit to the good that our sisters can do. You are called upon constantly by the authorities in the stakes and in the wards. And I don't know what in the world our stake presidents and bishops in the wards would do if they didn't have these good sisters of Relief Society upon whom to depend; whom they can call to their service, many times, to handle situations that would be very delicate, that is for our brethren, but which our sisters may perform to the very greatest advantage. It if all the members of the Church were perfect. If that were the case we would all have less responsibility, both the men and the women, but that time has not come. We have members among our sisters who need encouragement, a little help spiritually as well as temporally, and nobody can do it better than our sisters who belong to this great and wonderful organization. IN this work the sisters may lend their aid in encouraging and helping the wayward, indifferent, the careless, just as the brethren of the Priesthood are called upon to do in behalf of the wayward, careless, and indifferent among the 152 brethren. We should all work to bring to pass righteousness and endeavor to bring back into activity those who have drifted and neglected the duties of the Church. We keep a record that's fairly accurate of all the male members of the Church who are inactive, men holding the Priesthood who are not magnifying their callings; and the men in the Church, members of the Church, who hold no Priesthood. We have our brethren laboring among them to try to get them into activity. We have a great many sisters, likewise, who are delinquent and careless, and who are not living according to all the Lord has revealed and required of them. I know of no record, however, that gives us the number, or an approximate number, of the sisters who belong to that class. But here is a work the Relief Society can labor in as well as clothing the naked, feeding the hungry, caring for the dead, and attending to such other duties which fall upon them which they perform so faithfully and acceptably in the Church. It would be a glorious thing if we could all live as did the Nephites for two hundred years when the Lord said, or at least the Prophet writes, that there was no iniquity among them, no envying, no strife, no wickedness of any kind. What a glorious thing that must have been! And the prophet says, there could not be a happier people anywhere than were these people at that particular time. Our duty is to labor, to strive, to cry repentance, to be diligent in all the duties and responsibilities which are given RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 to us, and the sisters can do far more, 11 my Opimion, laboring with the sisters, than the brethren would be able to do. Now, may the Lord bless you in it, in all these things. I am very grateful that you are studying the doctrines of the Church. Now, I am not going to say much about that nor go into details in relation to it, because you have topics coming up in the latter part of this meeting. But the Lord expects the sisters to be qualified with a testimony of the truth to understand the doctrines of the Church just as he does those who hold the Priesthood. If we gain exaltation, which we hope to obtain, it is necessary that we prepare ourselves by knowledge, by faith, by prayer. And when the Lord said, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness," he was not talking just to a body of men, it was a mixed congregation. And righteousness is required of all those who have entered the waters of baptism and have obtained the remission of their sins. May the Lord bless these good sisters who preside over you in this organization. 'They are wonderful, as you have learned. I have something to do with them once in awhile; occasionally they come to me and to Brother Petersen with a problem; we try to help them. But they are capable and can solve most of their problems without any help.