[Vol23 | September 1936 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field]
Notes from the Field Julia A. F, Lund—General Secretary
WEST JORDAN RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE BOARD
West Jordan Stake "THE above picture represents one of our very excellent Stake Boards—West Jordan. The record of achievements of this fine Stake is one of the bright pages in Relief Society history. There will always be a note of sadness in contemplating the members of the Board as we recall the fact that Sister Delila Freeman passed away shortly after this picture was taken. Sister Freeman is the first member in the first row reading from left to right. She was the musical director of the West Jordan Stake, the Assistant Secretary and the Magazine representative. Being so versatile in her talents her loss is a very great one to the Stake, and the General Board condoles with Sister Pixton and the other members of the Board, as well as with Sister Freeman's family. Shelley Stake | NE of the very delightful entertainments of the Shelley Stake held before closing in the Spring of 1936 was when the Shelley Stake Board entertained the Ward Relief Society Officers and Class Leaders at a luncheon. This pleasant event was held in the Stake Tabernacle. During the entertainment reports of the recent conference held in Salt Lake City were given by the visiting members of the Stake Board. The scheme of gold and blue was carried out in the table decorations and in the favors. Very clever little programs in blue with yellow NOTES FROM THE FIELD flowers were souvenirs of the happy occasion. The guests were seated at three tables each of which was centered with a silver and blue basket of daffodils and blue candles in silver holders. The songs sang upon 579 the occasion by the Relief Society choir were composed for the most part by Relief Society women themselves. It was a never-to-be-forgotten event attended by about eighty enthusiastic workers.
DANISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD
Danish Mission - HE above picture represents the sisters of the Danish Mission Relief Society Board.
These enterprising women are responsible for the conduct of the work throughout the Mission, and have been most enthusiastic in following as closely as possible the activities of the organization.
