[Vol23 | September 1936 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Lure of Green]
What with babies, housework and itinerant scribbling, I really haven't time to take care of them properly, nevertheless, I simply cannot resist the lure of something green.
Patricia has reached the dignity of six years and the first reader and now only once in a great while sends my favorite plant crashing to thie floor, but Alan will shortly be walking and I know with an awful certainty that he will exhibit the saime fondness for examining the soil in my flower pots that his older brothers and sisters have done with the same dire results to my carpets. And still I persist in putting things in pots or tin cans as the case may be and feeling an exaggerated sense of pride when they grow into presentable looking plants. Lately I have read that "houseplants are very essential units in modern home decoration" and since then I feel that my efforts are entirely justified. Nevertheless, I have a great deal of respect for the person strong minded enough to say, "No, I won't be bothered with house plants."
There have been times when I have made resolutions to that effect myself but I have never kept them going.
Just when things were going along nicely some kind soul was sure to present me with something or other in a pot and as long as I had one to care for I felt that I might as well have others and so the whole story would begin all over again. But then, there is probably that in all of us that sooner or later longs for the sight of something green and growing in the house. The difficulty, of course, is to keep it green and growing.
Outdoor plants will, to some extent, shift for themselves but as soon as they are brought inside they depend upon you for water, for care and for the right amount of heat and sunshine.
They are a tremendous responsibility.
Having once taken them under your roof, they demand that you allow them to suffer no neglect. A GENERATION ago when steam heat was not so universally used and before fresh air was allowed generally to all rooms, house plants thrived wonderfully.
They enjoy nothing better than a nice stuffy room where there is a lot of moisture to condense and run down the window pane. If one wishes to be very hospitable to plants, a home in a south window of a kitchen where there is a coal or electric range and where the air is moist from steam will be most appreciated.
