[Vol35 | April 1948 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

Woman’s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 'T^HE eight women elected this year to the Salt Lake City Council of W omen's Hall of Fame are: Mrs. Anna Margaret Bel ess, charter president of the council, inaugurator of the city clean-up campaign, advocate of re-forestation of landscape beauty centers. Mrs. Adele Cannon Howells, philanthropist. General President of the L.D.S.
Primary organization, a sponsor of the Primary Children's Hospital. Miss Rose Anna Jones, outstanding educator, founder of the nursery school movement in Utah, social worker. Mrs. Cornelia S. Lund, worker in Parent-Teacher Associations for twenty-five years, leader in Salt Lake City Women's Chamber of Commerce fight for smoke abatement. Mrs. Ella Napier Paul, organizer of youth groups to combat juvenile delinquency. Brownie Scouts worker. Miss Florence E. Ware, outstanding artist, consultant in vocational guidance, instructor in children's activities, director in Utah's Centennial art exhibits. Mrs. Grace Dorius Wahlquist, state di-rector of Minute Women during World War II, chairman of Centennial Commit-tee of the Council of Women. Mrs. Ruby Hazlet Wiesley, director of the women's division of Utah war bond sales committee, permanent chairman of the council-sponsored international peace garden.
Elections are held every five years; service to the community is the basis of choice. MRS. AGNES OLSEN THOM-AS, for nearly twenty-six years leader of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society chorus, and member of the Tabernacle choir for more than fifty years, passed away January 9. She was almost ninety-one years of age. Her contributions to the musical culture of Utah were invaluable.
Although she was the mother of nine children, she still found time to sing at countless funerals— with-out recompense, and was frequently contralto soloist with the Tabernacle choir. In her native Christiania, now Oslo, Norway, she sang (at a Latter-day Saints Church concert) ''Solveig's Song" from the Peer Gynt suite by Grieg.
This was the song' s first public rendition. The choir leader was a member of the Christiania orchestra which was rehearsing Grieg's work. The director of the famous or orchestra was in attendance and was very enthusiastic about Miss Olsen's voice. TACKINANNY is a story by Mrs. Lizzie O. Borgeson White and granddaughter Dianne Olivia White about two little girl friends, one Indian and one white, and their common interest in the story of the Book of Mormon. TO be published in the National Anthology oi Patriotic Declamation, 1948, is Mrs. Bertha A. Kleinman's poem, "The Empire of the Free."
Selected as one of the outstanding poems among 3,000 entries in t he Thanksgiving contest of the National Poetry Foundation, it received a merit citation. It has a fine, marching rhythm, and sonorous, ringing diction. Page
247 APRIL 1948 NO. 4
The Annual General Church Conference AS the season approaches for calling together the greatest assemblage held on earth—a general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—all members have cause to reflect upon the deep significance of the occasion and the great responsibility resting upon the leaders of the Church and upon this people. It is a time appointed for the gathering in of the saints from near and far, to learn the will of the Lord from the lips of his chosen servants during these last days of prophetic import. To one but recently arrived from a distant land, attendance at a great general conference in the Tabernacle is a never-to-be-forgotten experience. Instead of meeting with a mere handful of saints, often under stringent circumstances, he now finds himself crowded into a magnificent and unique edifice made hallowed by the faithfulness and sacrifices of its pioneer builders and the stalwart saints who have succeeded them. He sees those living prophets, seers, and revelators, previously revered names, seated in majesty behind the rising tiers of pulpits. He notices the great center of the building filled with members of the priesthood, leaders in the stakes and missions of the Church. Page 248
Even to a regular attendant it is a sight which never fails to thrill and inspire, and, as the anthems of Praise to the Lord rise ever higher, accompanied by the deep and mighty tones of the organ, the beholder seems to become a part of heaven on earth. All saints who are privileged to attend a general Church conference should come with broken hearts and contrite spirits, offering themselves as receptive vessels into which may be freely poured 'the blessings, exhortations, injunctions, and commandments pronounced by the living prophets.
While this Church has a promise that the gospel will never be given to another people, the tempo at which the will of the Lord may be done on the earth depends, in great measure, upon the faithfulness and obedience of the members of the Church who must prove themselves worthy _instruments in the hands of the Lord that he may speedily accomplish his purposes. Let each saint, then, live by the Master's words, "Not my will but thine be done," and whether or not he can attend a general Church conference in person, let him in reality be a_ participant through reading, studying, and obeying the words of