[Vol35 | April 1948 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Loie M. Beach]

——— A SIMILE Loie M. Beach A baby is like a breath of spring, A tiny, sweet, refreshing thing, Each day a change, and as it grows, It blossoms like a summer rose. A New Coat for an Old One Blanche N. Coe Would like to convert an old, straight coat into a new, flared model to wear with full, long dresses? By carefully following the directions given in this article, you can perform this transformation.
Before you begin the remodeling process, carefully observe the way in which the bottom of the coat is finished so that you can refinish the new one in the same way. First, make a chalk mark around the sleeve halfway between the inside of the elbow joint and the wrist joint. Cut at the chalk mark. (See Diagram A).
Carefully press with a damp cloth the pieces you have cut off as you are going to use them later.
Open the underarm seam of the sleeve almost to the armhole.
Also open the inside seam of the lining of the sleeve almost to the armhole.
Remove the padding at the top of the sleeve and at the shoulder and insert the new-style padding for the shoulder.
After you have placed pad correctly, put a tailor's mitt in the top of the sleeve and shoulder, cover with a cloth wrung from warm water, and steam-press into shape. If the material in your coat won't shrink into a nice shape, the top of the armhole seam can be opened and part of the old sleeve cut out to make it fit the new pad.
With a thin piece of tailor's chalk, or a piece of soap, mark the new hemline of the coat evenly, about a quarter of an inch below the finger-: tips when the hands are hanging at Page 268 the sides. Use a yardstick so that the bottom of the coat is exactly the same distance from the floor at every point. Cut on the dotted line of the chalk marks. (See Diagram A). Diagram B represents one of the pieces cut off from each sleeve.
From each piece cut a triangle (1.) with which to widen the sleeves (See Diagram C).
Make a triangle pattern with paper as long as the arm seam opening and as wide as the goods allows and lay the pattern on the cloth as shown in Diagram B. Sew the flare (triangle) in place as shown in Diagram C, with the wide part of the triangle at the bottom of the sleeve.
Open the side seams of the coat and lining almost to the armhole.
From the piece which you have cut off the bottom of the coat cut two flares, (triangles 2 and 3), to put into the side openings of the coat, one for each side.
Also cut — the circular pieces (4) to be. Put in the bottom of each sleeve from this same piece of material. Cut these circles as large as possible. The diagrams (D-1 and D-2) show two ways of doing this. If the piece of material cut from the bottom of the coat is sufficiently wide, and the pattern of the material is such that it can be used crosswise, then cut as in Diagram D-1. If the pattern of the material, however, such as a stripe, cannot be used crosswise, then cut as in Diagram D-2.
Join the pieces carefully, matching the notches of 2 and 3, and press the
A NEW COAT FOR AN OLD ONE 269 (Diagram E). seams well before joining them to the sides of the coat. Sew the straight side of the triangle to the front seam of the coat. Sew the circles to the bottom of the sleeves (Diagram E).
Bind the inside of the circle to form a cuff at the wrist.
Press all the seams carefully with a steam iron or with a cloth wrung from warm water. Use the same pattern and method of cutting and sewing for making the lining into a flare, and for making the new lining for the sleeves. A different material may be needed to line the sleeve circle. You observed the original bottom finish on your old coat.