[Vol35 | April 1948 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Plea Margaret Jenkins]
EDITORIAL 
VOL.  35 
APRIL  1948 
NO.  4 
cJhe  KyLnnual  i^eneral  Lyhurch 
(conference 
AS  the  season  approaches  for  call- 
ing together  the  greatest  as- 
semblage held  on  earth— a  general 
conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints— all 
members  have  cause  to  reflect  upon 
the  deep  significance  of  the  occasion 
and  the  great  responsibility  resting 
upon  the  leaders  of  the  Church  and 
upon  this  people.  It  is  a  time  ap- 
pointed for  the  gathering  in  of  the 
saints  from  near  and  far,  to  learn 
the  will  of  the  Lord  from  the  lips  of 
his  chosen  servants  during  these  last 
days  of  prophetic  import. 
To  one  but  recently  arrived  from 
a  distant  land,  attendance  at  a  great 
general  conference  in  the  Taber- 
nacle is  a  never-to-be-forgotten  ex- 
perience. Instead  of  meeting  with 
a  mere  handful  of  saints,  often  un- 
der stringent  circumstances,  he  now 
finds  himself  crowded  into  a  mag- 
nificent and  unique  edifice  made 
hallowed  by  the  faithfulness  and 
sacrifices  of  its  pioneer  builders  and 
the  stalwart  saints  who  have  suc- 
ceeded them.  He  sees  those  living 
prophets,  seers,  and  revelators,  pre- 
viously revered  names,  seated  in 
majesty  behind  the  rising  tiers  of 
pulpits.  He  notices  the  great  center 
of  the  building  filled  with  members 
of  the  priesthood,  leaders  in  the 
stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church. 
Page  248 
Even  to  a  regular  attendant  it  is  a 
sight  which  never  fails  to  thrill  and 
inspire,  and,  as  the  anthems  of 
praise  to  the  Lord  rise  ever  higher, 
accompanied  by  the  deep  and 
mighty  tones  of  the  organ,  the  be- 
holder seems  to  become  a  part  of 
heaven  on  earth. 
All  saints  who  are  privileged  to 
attend  a  general  Church  conference 
should  come  with  broken  hearts  and 
contrite  spirits,  offering  themselves 
as  receptive  vessels  into  which  may 
be  freely  poured  the  blessings,  ex- 
hortations, injunctions,  and  com- 
mandments pronounced  by  the  liv- 
ing prophets.  While  this  Church 
has  a  promise  that  the  gospel  will 
never  be  given  to  another  people, 
the  tempo  at  which  the  will  of  the 
Lord  may  be  done  on  the  earth  de- 
pends, in  great  measure,  upon  the 
faithfulness  and  obedience  of  the 
members  of  the  Church  who  must 
prove  themselves  worthy  instru- 
ments in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  that 
he  may  speedily  accomplish  his  pur- 
poses. 
Let  each  saint,  then,  live  by  the 
Master's  words,  "Not  my  will  but 
thine  be  done,"  and  whether  or  not 
he  can  attend  a  general  Church  con- 
ference in  person,  let  him  in  reality 
be  a  participant  through  reading, 
studying,  and  obeying  the  words  of

EDITORIAL  249 
the  prophets  as  enunciated  therein,  be  done  on  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven/' 
Then  will  the  passing  of  each  gen-  and  look  forward  with  eager  expect- 
eral  conference  mark  an  increase  in  ancy  to  the  fulfillment  of  this  prayer 
the    righteousness    of    the    saints,  on  earth. 
Then  can  they  truly  pray  ''thy  will  M.  C.  S. 
»  ♦  « 
(congratulations  to  Lrresident  Smith 
\:yn  criis   [Birthaayi,  .jLpril  jftn 
npHE  world-wide  membership  of  Relief  Society  extends  birthday  greetings 
to  President  George  Albert  Smith  on  the  occasion  of  his  seventy-eighth 
birthday.    We  wish  him  health  and  happiness  and  the  strength  to  continue 
his  great  work  in  a  world  which  needs  the  faith  and  vision  of  men  of  God. 
People  everywhere  are  seeking  for  leaders  who  have  the  courage  and  the 
wisdom  to  chart  a  way  through  the  difficulties  that  beset  all  countries  to- 
day. We,  as  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  given  a  great  leader,  a  kindly, 
understanding  man,  who  walks  close  to  his  people,  and  whose  lofty  spirit 
is  ever  in  tune  with  God.  May  the  faith  and  prayers  of  the  women  of  the 
Church  be  manifest  for  our  dear  President  and  may  the  coming  years  bring 
him  comfort  and  joy  in  the  service  he  loves. 
Jt    I  ie\s)  cjeature  for  the    1 1  iagazine 
\     new    feature— ''From  Near  and  Far"— makes    its    first    appearance 
with  this  issue  of  the  Magazine.    This  page  is  designed  to  feature  com- 
ments from  readers,  notes  about  authors,  and  other  items  of  interest.  Read- 
ers are  invited  to  submit  brief  paragraphs  of  opinions,  suggestions,  and  inter- 
esting notes  "From  Near  and  Far." 
DEBUT  OF  SPRING 
Aileen  M.  Ovedelt 
Clean  and  cool,  the  April  rain 
Glistens  on  each  window  pane, 
Sprinkling  diamonds  on  the  town, 
Shimmering  beads  on  branches  brown, 
Cleansing  everything  anew 
For  Lady  April's  spring  debut.

TbtaL 
TO  THE  FIELD 
A 
(change  in  uXegulations  for    H Lembership  in  the 
nlormon  cKanaicraft  ^ift  Shop 
change  in  the  regulations  for  memberships  in  the  Mormon  Handicraft 
Gift  Shop  was  adopted  by  the  general  board  of  Relief  Society  on  De- 
cember 3,  1947,  whereby  stake  and  ward  memberships  will  be  confined  to 
stake  and  ward  organizations  submitting  merchandise  for  sale  for  the  bene- 
fit of  their  own  organizations.  This  new  regulation  will  take  effect  on  ex- 
piration of  the  present  memberships.  Members  of  Relief  Society,  as  indi- 
viduals, will  no  longer  be  able  to  submit  articles  under  the  stake  and  ward 
memberships,  but  will  be  required  to  pay  an  individual  membership  fee  of 
$1  annually.  To  simplify  the  payment  of  individual  fees,  the  $1  will 
be  deducted  from  the  first  sale  of  merchandise  submitted  by  the  prospec- 
tive member.  This  will  eliminate  the  necessity  of  paying  membership  fees 
in  advance. 
-•-•- 
NOW  WE  ARE  WED 
Mabel  Jones  Gabhott 
Once  there  were  never  hours  enough 
To  speak  our  heart's  delight, 
So  young  in  love,  we  spun  our  tale 
Until  dawn  tinged  the  night. 
Now  we  are  wed,  our  glances  meet 
Above  each  other's  book; 
And  all  the  things  we  tried  to  say 
Are  known  in  one  long  look. 
MY  LATEST  INSPIRATION 
Nan  S.  Richardson 
Sometime  ago,  about  eighty-six  years, 
I  came  to  this  world  of  joy  and  tears. 
I'm  thankful  for  parents  who  came  with  the  band 
And  established  a  home  in  this  glorious  land: 
I'm  thankful  for  music,  for  books  and  flowers. 
To  enlighten  one's  mind  and  while  away  hours. 
I'm  thankful  for  faith,  and  the  gospel,  and  health 
That's  been  more  to  me  than  all  the  world's  wealth. 
I'm  thankful  for  sons  and  grandchildren,  too,  and 
Brothers  and  sisters,  and  friends  so  true. 
But  I  don't  like  arthritis,  I  would  be  very  pleased 
If  I  could  buy  hinges  that  would  limber  my  knees. 
Page  250

Bright  April 
Margery  S.  Stewart 
JUST  
one  more  house  and  her  She  rose.  'Thank  you.  My  name 
visiting  teaching  for  the  month  is  Ann— Ann  Bentley." 
would  be  done.  Nora  Linden  Nora  looked  at  the  girl's  long,  dark 
took  a  deep  breath  of  the  sun-  hair,  at  her  drawn,  but  still  lovely, 
splashed  autumn  air  and  turned  into  pointed  face,  her  amazingly  beau- 
the  walk  that  led  to  the  very  small  tiful  eyes,  blue,  tilted  at  the  corn- 
duplex  at  the  end  of  the  street.  ers,  at  her  slim,  rough  hands.  *Tou 
She  stepped  over  red  toy  trucks  were  Ann  Phillips,  weren't  you?" 
and    scattered     blue    doll    dishes,  "Yes." 
climbed  the  steps,  and  rang  the  bell.  '1  went  to  school  with  your  moth- 
In  the  glass  that  decorated  the  door  er.    I  remember  you,  especially  when 
she  could  see  her  face.    She  noted,  you  drove  around  in  that  bright  red 
with  a  wry  dismay,  the  lines  that  ran  convertible  .  .  .  most  beautiful  girl 
upward  from  her  eyes  and  the  pow-  in  town." 
dering  of  gray  in  her  bright,  brown  "Most  beautiful  girl  in   town?" 
hair.    She  could  hear  a  baby  crying  The  girl's  smile  was  a  distorted  twist 
inside,  and  suddenly  an  older  child  of  her  lovely  mouth.    ''Sounds  like 
wailed  sharply.  Not  a  propitious  mo-  someone  I  met  ...  not  me."    Tears 
ment  for  a  call.  But  her  finger  found  crowded  hot  and  thick  down    her 
the  bell  again.  white  cheeks.     "Ann  Phillips,  the 
The  door  was  opened  by  a  girl,  she  little  girl  with  the  large  dreams." 
was  not  more  than  that,  who  held 
the  knob  with  one  hand,  while  a  ^^  ANN?"    Nora  looked  helplessly 
wailing  baby  on  her  other  arm  kicked  at  the  girl, 
and  a  little  boy  of  two  clutched  at  ^<y^  ^^^^    It's  been  ...  a  rugged 
her  knees  and  roared  m  angry  grief,  jay."    She  hid  her  face  in  the  baby's 
Somewhere  beyond  the  wildly  dis-  blanket,  her  young  shoulders  rocked. 
ordered  room,  a  voice  shrieked  for  ^^.^  j^^  her  to  a  chair,  brushed 
Mon^n^y-  blocks  from  it,  and  eased  the  girl 
'Tm  Nora  Linden."    She  held  out  down.     She  lifted  the  baby  higher 
her  arms.     "Let  me  hold  the  baby,  on  her  shoulder.    "I  know  just  what 
then  you  can  tend  to  him."  it's  like.    I've  cried  many  and  many 
The  girl  laid  the  baby  in  Nora's  a  time." 
arms  and  knelt  beside  the  boy.    She  The  girl  hid  her  face  in  the  back 
lifted  his  hand,  covered  a  bruised  of  the  chair.    "Was  it  because  things 
forefinger  with  kisses.  "There,  dar-     started  out  so  sweetly   Ted  and 
ling,  there.    It  will  be  all  right.    See  I  were  swinging  on  stars  .  .  .  riding 
it's  all  better."     Nora  saw  that  the  through  roses.  Children?  We  want- 
giri's  hands  were  shaking.     "Smile,  ed  children,  six  of  them."  Laughter 
Bobby."  strangled  in   her   throat.     "We've 
"It's  bwoke,"  he  said.  three,  and  we  can't  take  care  of 
Page  251

252 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1948 
them.  Three,  and  our  hves  are  a 
rotten,  quarrehng  mess." 
"I  know  it's  a  struggle." 
"Struggle!"  She  lifted  her  face 
to  Nora.  "I  can't  struggle  any  more. 
I'm  going  to  get  a  divorce." 
"No,"  Nora  said.    "Please  .  .  ." 
"Yes,"  the  girl  cried.  "Yes  and 
yes  and  yes!  I'm  not  going  to  stay 
home,  fight  dirt,  meals,  never  on 
top  of  any  of  them,  while  Ted  rides 
high,  having  fun,  afraid  to  soil  his 
hands.     I  won't  take  it  any  more." 
For  the  first  time,  Nora  permitted 
herself  a  look  around  the  room.  It 
might  be  a  pretty  room  under  the 
dust  and  the  litter  of  magazines  and 
the  chair  filled  with  unironed 
clothes." 
"Isn't  it  a  mess?  Dotty,  my  little 
girl,  has  been  sick  for  two  days,  be- 
sides I  just  can't  seem  to  get  things 
organized.  I  didn't  know  how  to 
boil  water  when  we  were  married, 
and  .  .  ."  faint  laughter  touched  the 
words,  "I'm  still  burning  it."  She 
sat  up.  "I'm  all  right  now.  Fm 
sorry  I  bothered  you  with  my 
troubles." 
But  Nora  saw  the  strain  it  was  for 
the  pale  mouth  not  to  tremble,  the 
hands  to  knot  tightly  so  they  could 
not  shake.  Exhaustion.  How  well 
Nora  knew  the  signs. 
"Look,"  she  said,  "knowing  your 
mother  makes  me  practically  an 
aunt,  and  you  know  how  aunts  are 
always  interfering.  First  .  .  .  how 
long  since  you've  been  to  town?" 
"Three  weeks." 
"Good  gracious!  Well,  you  pop 
into  the  tub  and  get  dressed.  Make 
an  appointment  to  get  your  hair 
done  tomorrow,  make  a  date  for 
lunch,  and  right  now  you'll  just  have 
time  to  meet  this  Ted  of  yours  for 
dinner  and  a  show.  I'll  baby  tend." 
"But  Dotty?" 
"What  is  it?" 
"A  cold." 
"Tish!"  Nora  sniffed.  "Colds  run 
when  they  see  me  coming." 
"But  your  own  family?"  Ann  was 
wavering. 
Expertly,  Nora  fished  in  the  chair 
load  of  clothes  for  a  diaper,  carried 
it  and  the  baby  to  the  couch.  She 
folded  the  dry  cloth  around  the 
dimpled  legs.  "We  just  live  up  the 
street.  I'll  call  and  tell  them  not  to 
wait  for  me.  There's  a  casserole  dish 
in  the  oven." 
"I  can  really  go?" 
Nora  watched  the  delight  kindle 
beauty  in  the  young  face.  "Go, 
child,  and  don't  worry  about  a 
thing." 
"l\rHEN  Ann  had  left,  Nora  made 
a  quick  survey  of  the  house  and 
went  to  work.  She  changed  the  lin- 
en in  the  baby's  bed  under  the  grave 
scrutiny  of  the  four-year-old  Dotty, 
who  trotted  after  her  in  pink  pa- 
jamas and  fluffy  blue  slippers. 
"You're  handsome,"  Dotty  said 
largely.  "Grandmother  is  handsome, 
too,  but  she's  in  California." 
"What's  California?"  Bobby 
wanted  to  know.  He  brought  his 
red  chair  and  thumped  it  down  on 
the  bedroom  floor.  "Let's  talk 
about  lions." 
Laughter  ran  through  Nora.  "I  . . . 
I  don't  know  any  lions." 
"They  eat  people,"  Dotty  prompt- 
ed, "to  get  their  vitamins,  Daddy 
says." 
Nora  found  store  cookies  and  milk, 
settled  the  children  at  the  kitchen 
table,  and  went  downstairs  to  tackle 
an  overdue  wash.  She  was  hanging 
diapers  in  a  long,  neat  line  when  Mrs.