[Vol35 | April 1948 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: Inseparable Norton]

INSEPARABLE Alice Whitson Norton Through age I've learned the solemn truth Gay fairies are a part of youth; And though I know the truth it seems ~ They're still entangled with my dreams.
285 MY SERVICES ARE MY WAGES Twice as much for your money as you received twenty years ago! That's what the average users of household electricity get in the territory we serve! UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. At ( your SEARS service. X CATALOG ORDER DESK SHOPPING SPECIALIST.. « to answer questions, take measurements, help select items, write and mail orders.
Phone calls get same service, too.
Phone or visit your nearest Sears Store. SEARS: "There are four sets of twins in my immediate family. My father was a twin, I am a twin, IT have twins, and one of my twins has twins, T have a son on 4 mission in Finland, and 4 daughter with her husband and two children in Germany, three other daughters live in three different states in "A New Stove For Mother" Was write around the sides. My f. A real old Surrey with Perched on someone's knee, the dust from billow in MARGERY 5s. STEWART, Salt Lake City, who Wrote "Bright April," con.
Tributes some unique thoughts: they grow UP, and that is the most thrilling thing of all. Are men barred from reading The Re. Lief Society "Women and Their Apparel" in February issue), and I think it is fine — M. D. Beauregard, Salt Lake City, Utah, Thank you most heartily and cordially for the lovely tribute and birthday Wishes Published in the February issue. It was so generous of you and the Magazine to thus "remember me and J 4PPreciate it most sin. Editors, May the choicest blessings of our Heavenly Father ever be with you, is my earnest prayer, Sincerely and affectionate. Ly—Amy Brown Lyman, Salt Lake City, Adjustable Dress Form $19.98
Save 14
The Cost of: Clothes By Home Sewing js v Our Piece Goods Department is newly enlarged, remodeled and redecorated! In it are the loveliest new fabrics you've ever seen... And the White Sewing Machine and Pattern Departments are at your service. Cottons—.49 yard and up Rayons—.79 yard and' up Woolens—$2,98 yard and up Ask for details of the National Sewing Contest beginning March 1—Grand Prize winner gets a trip to New York and $100! Piece Goops—Srcap FLoor 10M — For the bride-to-be... A National Bible or Testament bound in WHITE No. 46PW New Testament with Psalms. Genuine' White round corners, a page. No. 63PW Testament with KING JAMES Psalms. No. 122W Bible also bound in VERSION =I White Fabrikoid. National Bi IBLES AT YOUR BOOKSTORE SINCE. 1863
Responsibility We feel a certain definite responsibility to our 'customers. That responsibility includes the furnishing of the very finest of foods through spotlessly clean stores and markets at a minimum cost to the consumer. More than that, we protect our customers with an iron-clad guarantee of satisfaction on every purchase. P. SKAGGS Page 288 POPULAR SELECTIONS 0F MUSIC For SINGING MOTHERS 1776
The King of Glory—Parks__..20c 962
Invocation (can be used for funerals — not hard) — Moore ~16c 2W163
Grateful O Lord Am I (not difficult)—Roma 15c 1758
How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings—Liddle-Cain ___........ 15c 89011
Come Unto Me—Tschaikowsky-Riegger —.15c 1470
The Lord Is My Light— Allitson-Samuelson ____ 15c 2797
Praise Ye the Father— Gounod-Bliss 2W1531 I Come to Thee (can be used for funerals—medium range)—Roma ______.. 15c 2W1511 It Was for Me (can be used for funerals)—Blount ___.. 15c 15183
Spirit of God (medium range)—Neidlinger _._..__..15c 724 I Will Exalt Thee, O Lord— Harris 15¢ 4071
The Lord Bless You and Keep You (easy)—Orders filled same day received. All postage prepaid. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stocks for schools and home use, Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos. Band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies....