[Vol35 | April 1948 | Sequence: 32 | Category: General Feature | Title: Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address]
the  body,  for  building  teeth,  bones, 
and  blood,  and  for  all  body  pro- 
cesses. 
When  meat,  cheese,  and  fluid 
milk  are  scarce,  or  unsafe  because 
cows  are  not  properly  tested,  dried 
milk  can  be  used.  Dried  whole  milk 
should  be  kept  under  refrigeration, 
since  the  fat  becomes  rancid.  Dried 
skimmed  milk  may  be  used  in  many 
ways  and  is  very  reasonable  in  price. 
One  half  cup  of  dried  milk  contains 
milk  solids  equal  to  one  quart  of 
fresh  milk.  Use  it  in  creamed 
soups,  breads,  gravies,  puddings,  ice 
cream,  cookies,  and  add  it  to  cooked 
cereals.  Dried  milk  has  the  advan- 
tage, too,  that  an  extra  amount  can 
be  added,  if  necessary,  for  protection 
of  health.  For  cooking,  it  is  much 
easier  and  quicker  to  measure  out 
the  amount  needed  for  the  recipe, 
then  mix  or  sift  the  dried  milk  with 
the  dry  ingredients,  instead  of  put- 
ting it  in  with  the  moisture,  as  is 
usually  done  in  recipes.  The  par- 
ticles of  milk  absorb  moisture  very 
slowly;  it  takes  a  long  time  for  the 
milk^  if  mixed  with  water,  to  make 
a  smooth  paste,  but  it  can  be  done 
quickly  by  putting  milk  in  a  small 
(Continued  on  page  285)

FROM  THE  FIELD 
Margaret  C.  Pickering,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
REGULATIONS  GOVERNING   THE  SUBMITTAL  OF  MATERIAL  FOR 
"NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD" 
(All  notes  and  photographs  are  to  be  submitted  through  stake  and  mission  Relief  So- 
ciety presidents). 
THIS  section  of  the  Magazine  is  reserved  for  narrative  reports  and  pictures  of  Relief 
Society  activities  in  the  stakes  and  missions.  Its  purpose  is  threefold:  (i )  to  provide 
a  medium  for  the  exchange  of  ideas  and  methods  for  conducting  Relief  Society  work 
which  have  proved  successful  in  some  organizations  and  v^hich  may  be  helpful  and  stimu- 
lating to  others;  (2)  to  recognize  outstanding  or  unique  accomplishments  of  Relief  So- 
city  organizations;  (3)  to  note  the  progress  of  Relief  Society  work  in  various  parts  of 
the  world.  It  is  recognized  that  personal  accounts  of  individuals  who  have  long  served 
Relief  Society,  or  who  have  otherwise  distinguished  themselves,  are  always  of  great 
interest,  but  the  space  available  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  is  so  limited  in  relation  to 
the  number  of  stakes  and  missions  that  it  must  be  reserved  for  reports  on  the  work  of 
the  organization  rather  than  that  of  individuals. 
Wards  and  branches  desiring  to  submit  reports  for  publication  in  "Notes  From  the 
Field"  are  requested  to  send  them  through  the  stake  or  mission  presidents.  It  often 
happens  that  one  or  two  wards  or  branches  in  a  stake  or  mission  will  send  reports  on 
special  activities  which  are  being  conducted  on  a  stake-wide  or  mission-wide  basis,  and, 
in  such  instances,  it  would  be  to  the  advantage  of  the  stake  or  mission  to  have  the  report 
cover  the  entire  activity  in  the  same  issue  of  the  Magazine,  with  all  participating  wards 
or  branches  represented. 
Reports  and  photographs  should  be  submitted  as  promptly  as  possible  after  the 
events  described  have  taken  place  in  order  that  they  may  be  published  while  the  ac- 
tivities are  still  of  current  interest. 
Where  narrative  reports  are  submitted,  with  or  without  accompanying  photographs, 
the  name  of  the  stake  and  ward,  or  mission  and  branch,  should  be  given  together  with 
the  title  of  the  activity  reported,  the  date,  and  other  pertinent  data,  including  the  name, 
address,  and  position  of  the  person  making  the  report. 
Pictures  which  are  submitted  for  pubhcation  can  be  used  only  if  they  are  clear 
and  distinct  and  will  make  good  cuts  for  reproduction.  Black  and  white  glossy  prints 
reproduce  most  satisfactorily.  Pictures  should  have  the  following  information  written 
clearly  on  the  back: 
Name  of  stake  and  ward,  or  mission  and  branch 
Title  of  picture,  stating  the  activity  represented  or  the  purpose 
of  meeting  of  the  group 
Date  picture  was  taken 
Name,  address,  and  position  in  Relief  Society  of  person  sub- 
mitting the  picture 
Identification  of  persons  in  the  picture  should  be  made  on  the  reverse  side.  Names 
should  be  given  from  left  to  right,  written  clearly,  and  spelled  correctly.  The  given 
names  of  the  women  should  be  used,  not  their  husbands'  names  (for  instance,  Sarah  D. 
Erickson,  not  Mrs.  James  Erickson). 
The  positions  of  the  executive  officers:  president,  counselors,  and  secretary-treasurer 
should  always  be  listed  with  their  names. 
If  the  photograph  has  reference  to  some  particular  activity,  such  as  sewing,  visiting 
teaching,  etc.,  the  name  of  the  leader  and  her  position  should  also  be  listed. 
Material  submitted  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  should  be  addressed  to  the  General 
Secretary-Treasurer  of  Relief  Society,  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah. 
Page  274

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD  275 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  BAZAARS,  CONVENTIONS.  AND  OTHER  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Zelma  S.  Muir 
BEAVER  STAKE  (UTAH),  SUCCESSFUL  RUG  PROJECT  CONDUCTED 
Seated,  left  to  right:  Phylis  S.  Warr,  President,  Beaver  Stake  Relief  Society;  Lydia 
R.  Smith,  Welfare  Counselor. 
Standing,  left  to  right:  Marian  Tolton  and  Alice  Heslington,  counselors  in  Beaver 
East  Ward;  Minnie  Griffiths  and  Ruby  Grimshaw,  members  of  the  rug  committee; 
Claudia  Morgan,  Work  Director  Counselor,  Beaver  West  Ward;  Alice  Farnsworth,  mem- 
ber of  the  rug  committee;  Zelma  S.  Muir,  Stake  Relief  Society  Secretary;  Kathleen  Farns- 
worth, Stake  Employment  Placement  Counselor. 
This  interesting  and  successful  project  has  utilized  many  rags  and  much  cast-off 
clothing  that  might  otherwise  have  been  wasted.  Between  March  1947  and  the  end 
of  the  year  more  than  300  beautiful  and  useful  rugs  were  completed.  The  project  is 
being  continued  and  the  Relief  Society  members  are  exhibiting  a  lively  interest  in  this 
revival  of  a  pioneer  craft. 
Sister  Zelma  S.  Muir,  Secretary,  Beaver  Stake  Relief  Society,  also  reports  that  Alice 
Gunn  White,  a  devoted  and  loyal  worker,  has  given  a  year's  subscription  ,to  the  Relief 
Society  Magazine  to  each  of  the  fifty-five  visiting  teachers  in  her  ward,  as  a  recognition 
of  their  loyalty  to  the  Magazine,  their  co-operation  in  securing  subscriptions,  and  their 
devotion  to  all  Relief  Society  work.  For  the  past  eleven  years  Sister  White  has  served 
as  the  supervisor  of  the  visiting  teachers  and  is  still  directing  this  work  with  great  ef- 
ficiency. Regardless  of  weather,  physical  handicaps,  or  the  sorrows  that  have  been  hers, 
Sister  White  has  faithfully  performed  her  duties.  She  is  a  Gold  Star  mother  of  World 
War  II.

276 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1948 
Photograph  submitted  by  LoReta    Riley 
SOUTH  DAVIS   STAKE    (UTAH),   BOUNTIFUL  FOURTH  WARD    "HOBBY 
DAY,"  October  8,  1947 
Left  to  right:  Ethel  Boynton,  work  director;  Edna  Smoot,  arts  and  crafts  chairman; 
Blanche  Briggs,  sewing  chairman;  Viola  Carlson,  quilting  chairman. 
This  unusual  and  entertaining  program  proved  to  be  of  great  interest  to  the  seventy- 
six  women  who  attended.  Corsages  of  gold  and  blue  fall  flowers,  tied  with  gold  and 
blue  ribbon,  were  presented  to  each  member.  Hobby  ideas,  handicraft  suggestions,  reci- 
pes, and  household  ideas  were  exchanged. 
Reva  F.  Wicker  is  president  of  South  Davis  Stake  Relief  Society. 
TEMPLE  VIEW  STAKE,  (SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH),  JEFFERSON  WARD 
BAZAAR,  December  4,  1947