[Vol35 | April 1948 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: APRIL]
232 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1948 
WELLS  STAKE,  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH,  COMPLETES 
BUILDING  FUND  QUOTA 
Stake  Relief  Society  President  Cacia  F.  Margetts  turns  check  over  to  General  Presi- 
dent Belle  S.  Spafford,  who  is  a  member  of  Wells  Stake.  Others  in  the  picture,  left 
to  right,  are  First  Counselor  Josephine  Brower,  Secretary  Hazel  Midgley,  and  Second 
Counselor  Ida  Isaacson.    Wells  Stake  is  fourth  in  the  Church  to  complete  its  quota. 
WARDS  AND  BRANCHES  IN  STAKES  AND  MISSIONS  WHICH 
HAVE  SENT  IN  100%  BUILDING  QUOTAS 
(Since  publication  of  the  list  in  the  March  Magazine  and  prior  to  March  10,  1948) 
Antimony  Ward,  Garfield  Stake  (Utah) 
Aurora  Branch,  Chicago  Stake  (Illinois) 
Banida  Ward,  Oneida  Stake  (Idaho) 
Basin  Ward,  Cassia  Stake  (Idaho) 
Bates  Ward,  Teton  Stake  (Idaho) 
Beaver  Creek  Branch,  Rigby  Stake  (Idaho) 
Belvedere  Ward,  Wells  Stake  (Utah) 
Bern  Ward,  Montpelier  Stake  (Idaho) 
Bonneville  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake  (Utah) 
Bremerton  Ward,  Seattle  Stake  (Washington) 
Bristol  Branch,  Southern  States  Mission  (Florida) 
Browning  Ward,  Wells  Stake  (Utah) 
Bryce  Ward,  St.  Joseph  Stake  (Arizona) 
Burton  Ward,  Rexburg  Stake  (Idaho) 
Cache  Ward,  Teton  Stake  (Idaho)

RELIEF  SOCIETY  BUILDING  NEWS  233 
Cedar  Fifth  Ward,  Parowan  Stake  (Utah) 
Cedron  Ward,  Teton  Stake  (Idaho) 
Chapin  Ward,  Teton  Stake  (Idaho) 
Clark  Ward,  East  Rigby  Stake  (Idaho) 
Clawson  Ward,  Teton  Stake  (Idaho) 
Chfton  Ward,  Oneida  Stake  (Idaho) 
Coltman  Ward,  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
Columbus  Ward,  Granite  Stake  (Utah) 
Darby  Ward,  Teton  Stake  (Idaho) 
Davis  Dam  Branch,  Moapa  Stake  (Nevada) 
Driggs  Ward,  Teton  Stake  (Idaho) 
Elizabeth  City  Branch,  Central  Atlantic  Mission  (North  Carolina) 
Emerson  Ward,  Minidoka  Stake  (Idaho) 
Fairfield  Ward,  Berkeley  Stake  (California) 
Fairmont  Ward,  Granite  Stake  (Utah) 
Fish  Haven  Ward,  Bear  Lake  Stake  (Idaho) 
Forest  Dale  Ward,  Granite  Stake  (Utah) 
Fort  Washakie  Branch,  Western  States  Mission  (Wyoming) 
Fruita  Branch,  Western  States  Mission  (Colorado) 
Gainesville  Branch,  Florida  Stake  (Florida) 
Garden  Park  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake  (Utah) 
Glencoe  Ward,  Oneida  Stake  (Idaho) 
Glendale  Ward,  Oneida  Stake  (Idaho) 
Glenns  Ferry  Ward,  Boise  Stake  (Idaho) 
•     Grand  Rapids  Branch,  Northern  States  Mission  (Michigan) 
Groveland  Ward,  Blackfoot  Stake  (Idaho) 
Grovont  Branch,  Teton  Stake   (Wyoming) 
Hercules  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake  (Utah) 
Hillcrest  Ward,  Grant  Stake  (Utah) 
Idaho  Falls  First  Ward,  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
Idaho  Falls  Fourth  Ward,  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
Idaho  Falls  Seventh  Ward,  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
Independence  Ward,  Rexburg  Stake  (Idaho) 
Ivins  Ward,  Wells  Stake  (Utah) 
Jackson  Ward,  Teton  Stake  (Wyoming) 
Kanarra  Ward,  Parowan  Stake  (Utah) 
Kingman  Branch,  Moapa  Stake   (Arizona) 
Laramie  Ward,  Denver  Stake  (Wyoming) 
Leland  Ward,  Palmyra  Stake  (Utah) 
Lincoln  Ward,  Granite  Stake  (Utah) 
Lyman  Ward,  Rexburg  Stake  (Idaho) 
McKay  Ward,  Wells  Stake  (Utah) 
McKinley  Ward,  Temple  View  Stake  (Utah) 
Miami  Ward,  St.  Joseph  Stake  (Arizona) 
Moccasin  Ward,  Kanab  Stake  (Arizona) 
Monument  Park  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake  (Utah) 
New  Harmony  Ward,  Parowan  Stake  (Utah) 
Nibley  Park  Ward,  Granite  Stake  (Utah) 
North  Twentieth  Ward,  Ensign  Stake  (Utah) 
Oasis  Ward,  Deseret  Stake  (Utah) 
Ogden  Thirty-first  Ward,  Ogden  Stake  (Utah) 
Oklahoma  City  Branch,  Central  States  Mission  (Oklahoma) 
Osgood  Ward,  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
Oxford  Ward,  Oneida  Stake  (Idaho) 
Park  Ward,  Utah  Stake  (Utah) 
Penrose  Ward,  Bear  River  Stake  (Utah) 
Pratt  Ward,  Teton  Stake  (Idaho)

234  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1948 
Preston  Fourth  Ward,  Oneida  Stake  (Idaho) 
Preston  Third  Ward,  Oneida  Stake  (Idaho) 
Provo  Fourth  Ward,  Utah  Stake  (Utah) 
Riverdale  Ward,  Oneida  Stake  (Idaho) 
River  Heights  Ward,  Mount  Logan  Stake  (Utah) 
Six-Seventh  Ward,  Temple  View  Stake  (Utah) 
Sharon  Ward,  Bear  Lake  Stake  (Idaho) 
South  Cottonwood  Ward,  Big  Cottonwood  Stake  (Utah) 
Sparks  Ward,  Reno  Stake  (Nevada) 
Spartanburg  Ward,  South  Carolina  Stake  (South  Carolina) 
Sterling  Ward,  American  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
Stone  Ward,  Bear  River  Stake  (Utah) 
Sugar  Ward,  North  Rexburg  Stake  (Idaho) 
Taber  Ward,  Lethbridge  Stake  (Canada) 
Telogia  Branch,  Southern  States  Mission  (Florida) 
Terreton  Ward,  Rigby  Stake  (Idaho) 
Tetonia  Ward,  Teton  Stake  (Idaho) 
Toledo  Branch,  Northern  States  Mission  (Ohio) 
Twin  Falls  Third  Ward,  Twin  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
Ucon  Ward,  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
Valley  View  Ward,  Big  Cottonwood  Stake  (Utah) 
Victor  Ward,  Teton  Stake  (Idaho) 
Washakie  Ward,  Malad  Stake  (Idaho) 
Waterloo  Ward,  Wells  Stake  (Utah) 
Wells  Ward,  Granite  Stake  (Utah) 
Whittier  Ward,  Wells  Stake  (Utah) 
Wilson  Ward,  Wells  Stake  (Utah) 
Yale  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake  (Utah) 
NEW  PROMISE  ^ 
Chiistie  Lund  Coles 
Now  all  the  lean,  dark  corridors  of  earth 
Are  shimmering  with  green  of  emerald  leaves. 
And  there  is  beauty  in  the  spring's  rebirth 
Tliat  every  flower  generously  receives. 
The  sound  of  growth  is  audible,  almost. 
In  swiftly  swelling  bud,  in  sap  of  tree. 
The  petaled  branches,  in  a  bouffant  host, 
Are  lyrics  of  poetic  majesty. 
Here  is  returning  beauty  on  the  land. 
Here  is  the  earth's  long  hope  made  manifest, 
Here  our  prosaic  reasoning  must  stand 
Awed  by  this  miracle  the  heart  has  guessed. 
Here  is  the  promise  of  a  future  yield    • 
In  lifted  spirit,  as  in  fertile  field.

Questing  Lights 
Belle  Watson  Anderson 
Chapter  i 
AT  
last  came  the  dick  of  the  for  any  man's  country.    I  have  heard 
old  hedge  gate,  the  familiar  you  say  so  many  times  yourself,  and 
creak  of  its  rusty  hinges,  and  yet  you  are  leaving  it  all." 
Jane  knew  her  waiting  was  at  an  end.  Andrew  turned  and  studied  Jane 
Andrew  Rumgay,  her  fiance,  was  for  a  few  moments,  the  childhood 
not  one  minute   late,   yet   it    had  sweetheart  he  had  loved  for  so  many 
seemed  to  her  that  she  had  waited  years. 
forever  for  his  coming  tonight.  She  ''J^'^^^  ^  ^"^  ^^^^  Y^^  ^^  ^^^  want 
opened  the  front  door  and  saw  him  me  to  stay  on  in  Scotland,  when  the 
leaning  against  the  luxuriant  hedge  new  world  offers  all  the  things  I 
that   grew  in  front  of  the  Allison  want  from  life— religion,  security,  a 
home.  home  of  my  own.    I  can  never  have 
The  moon   was  resplendent,  sil-  those  things  here.    Can't  you  under- 
vering  the  beautiful  village  of  King's  stand,  dear?" 
Kettle.  ''But  Scotland  would  give  you  to 
Andrew  called  excitedly  to  Jane,  me,  Andrew,"  she  answered  wistfully. 
''What  a  wonderful  picture  to  carry  'That  is  all  that  matters,  my  dar- 
with  me  to  America!"  hng." 
"Oh,  Andrew,  are  you  sure  that  ''The  new  country  will  unite  us, 
you  know  what  you  are  doing?  Some-  Jane."    Andrew  was  trying  hard  to 
how  I  just  can't  feel  the  same  way  explain.    "It  won't  be  long  before  I 
about  it  all  that  you  do.    So  many  can  send  for  you,  and  then  we  will 
things   can  happen  over  which  we  always    be    together    in    our    new 
have  no  control,  sickness,  accidents,  home." 
and  even  death."  Jane  sighed  a  long,  deep  sigh. 
Andrew  turned  anxiously  to  Jane.  Andrew  turned  and  spoke  tender- 
Her  worry  and  fear  were  astounding  ly.    "Don't,  Jane.  No  man  is  worthy 
to  him.  of  such  devotion,  but  if  a  man  can 
She  went  on,  "Perhaps  I'm  disap-  be,  I  am  going  to  be  that  man." 
pointing  you  when  I  tell  you  that  I  Reassured,  Jane  looked    up   and 
honestly  wish   things  were  just  as  smiled,  sunshine  bursting  through  a 
they  were    before    you    joined  the  drift  of  clouds.    She  believed  him. 
Church  and  made  up  your  mind  to  She  had  proved  him  so  many  times 
go  to  Utah."    Her  face  became  seri-  before, 
ous— far  too  serious,  "Come  with  me  to  tell  your  par- 
They  stood  silent  for  a  moment,  ents  goodbye,  before  we  attend  the 
watching  the  moon  sail  in  and  out  farewell  party.     I  must  get  home 
among  the  white  clouds,  like  a  silver  early  tonight  to  spend   some  time 
shuttle  weaving  its  way  across    the  with  mother,  and  I'll  need  to  rise 
heavens.  early  if  I  get  the  coach  in  Dumfer- 
"Scotland  is  a  sweet  country,"  she  line  tomorrow." 
began  speaking  again,  "good  enough  «  *  *  * 
Page  235

236  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1948 
A  large  crowd  of  friends,  neighbors,  "It  isn't  easy  to  leave  my  loved  ones, 
and  relatives  were  at  the  Rum-  but  while  Fm  away  the  weanies  will 
gay  home  the  next  morning  to  wish  work  just  a  little  harder,  and  be  just 
Andrew  good  luck  on  his  journey,  a  little  kinder  because  Fm  not  here."
