[Vol35 | April 1948 | Sequence: 35 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial: The Annual General Church Conference Marianne C. Sharp]
One  of  these  certificates  bearing  the  signatures  of  the  general  presidency  of  ReHef 
Society  is  being  sent  to  stakes  and  wards,  missions  and  branches  as  ioo%  quotas  from 
them  are  received.  The  certificates  have  been  made  the  size  of  the  ward  and  stake 
record  books  so  that  they  may  be  punched  and  kept  in  the  record  book  if  desired. 
A  WORD  OF  CAUTION 
We  call  attention  to  a  paragraph  contained  in  the  ''Financial  Plan  for 
the  Relief  Society  Building"  dated  October  21,  1947.  A  copy  of  this  plan 
was  sent  to  each  Relief  Society  stake  president  and  sufficient  additional 
copies  were  enclosed  so  that  each  ward  Relief  Society  president  could  be 
given  one. 
The  general  board  is  not  unmindful  of  the  fact  that  the  circumstances 
of  some  sisters  are  not  such  that  they  can  contribute  the  full  amount  of  the 
individual  quota.  For  that  reason  we  are  publishing  the  following  excerpt 
from  the  ''Financial  Plan"  as  set  forth  in  October  1947: 
"This  plan  is  predicated  upon  our  wish,  our  hope,  and  our  prayer  that 
the  money  for  this  new  Relief  Society  building  shall  be  collected,  in  large 
part,  by  the  Relief  Societies  throughout  the  Church;  that  every  member

RELIEF  SOCIETY  BUILDING  NEWS 
231 
shall  participate  toward  its  erection.  We  want  this  to  be  a  building  for 
and  by  Relief  Society  women.  To  this  end,  a  quota  of  $5  for  each  enrolled 
member  has  been  set  as  the  goal  necessary  to  achieve  this  objective.  How- 
ever, the  general  hoard  realizes  that  there  are  some  members  who  may  not 
he  in  a  position  to  make  so  large  a  contribution,  and  it  is  not  intended  that 
any  woman  shalJ  be  burdened  beyond  her  means  and,  particularly,  we  are 
anxious  that  no  member  shall  be  embarrassed  ii  she  is  not  prepared  to  con- 
tribute as  much  as  the  assigned  quota.  Nevertheless,  we  should  like  some 
contribution  irom  each  member,  be  it  ever  so  small.'* 
HONEYVILLE    (UTAH),   BEEHIVE    GIRLS    CONTRIBUTE   TO 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  BUILDING  FUND 
Seated,  left  to  right:  Carol  Hunsaker  and  Leota  Hunsaker. 
Standing:  Nora  Harper;  Rea  Nielsen;  Diane  Burke. 
Sister  Lois  G.  Hunsaker,  North  Box  Elder  Stake  Bee  Keeper,  has  submitted  the 
following  interesting  letter  regarding  this  active  group:  "Our  Relief  Society  president 
told  me  she  thought  I  ought  to  send  you  this  picture  of  my  five  bee  hive  girls.  They 
have  all  contributed  one  dollar  to  the  new  Relief  Society  home  to  be  built  in  Salt  Lake 
City.  They  not  only  helped  the  building  fund,  but  also  benefited  themselves  by  filling 
cell  No.  7  in  the  field  of  public  service  for  gatherers.  The  picture  was  taken  last  sum- 
mer in  the  Salt  Lake  City  Rose  Gardens  when  the  group  went  to  see  "The  Promised 
Valley."  They  are  a  very  conscientious  and  active  group  of  bee  hive  girls,  having  filled 
all  their  requirements  and  they  are  preparing  to  graduate  next  year  as  honor  bee  hive 
girls." 
STAKES  WHICH  HAVE  SENT  IN  100%  BUILDING  QUOTAS 
South  Idaho  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
Idaho  Falls  Stake  (  Idaho  ) 
San  Diego  Stake  (California) 
Wells  Stake  (Utah) 
Teton  Stake  (Idaho  and  Wyoming) 
Granite  Stake  (Utah) 
North  Idaho  Falls  Stake  (Idaho)

232