[Vol35 | April 1948 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: SERIALS Chapter]
Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
'T^HE   eight    women   elected   this 
year  to  the  Salt  Lake  City  Coun- 
cil of  Women's  Hall  of  Fame  are: 
Mrs.  Anna  Margaret  Bel  ess,  charter 
president  of  the  council,  inaugurator  of  the 
city  clean-up  campaign,  advocate  of  re- 
forestation of  landscape  beauty  centers. 
Mrs.  Adele  Cannon  Howells,  philan- 
thropist. General  President  of  the  L.D.S. 
Primary  organization,  a  sponsor  of  the 
Primary  Children's  Hospital. 
Miss  Rose  Anna  Jones,  outstanding  ed- 
ucator, founder  of  the  nursery  school 
movement  in  Utah,  social  worker. 
Mrs.  Cornelia  S.  Lund,  v/orker  in  Par- 
ent-Teacher Associations  for  twenty-five 
years,  leader  in  Salt  Lake  City  Women's 
Chamber  of  Commerce  fight  for  smoke 
abatement. 
Mrs.  Ella  Napier  Paul,  organizer  of 
youth  groups  to  combat  juvenile  delin- 
quency. Brownie  Scouts  worker. 
Miss  Florence  E.  Ware,  outstanding 
artist,  consultant  in  vocational  guidance, 
instructor  in  children's  activities,  director 
in  Utah's  Centennial  art  exhibits. 
Mrs.  Grace  Dorius  Wahlquist,  state  di- 
rector of  Minute  Women  during  World 
War  II,  chairman  of  Centennial  Commit- 
tee of  the  Council  of  Women. 
Mrs.  Ruby  Hazlet  Wiesley,  director  of 
the  women's  division  of  Utah  war  bond 
sales  committee,  permanent  chairman  of 
the  council-sponsored  international  peace 
garden. 
Elections  are  held  every  five 
years;  service  to  the  community  is 
the  basis  of  choice. 
jyjRS.  AGNES  OLSEN  THOM- 
AS, for  nearly  twenty-six  years 
leader  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake  Relief 
Society  chorus,  and  member  of  the 
Tabernacle  choir  for  more  than 
fifty  years,  passed  away  January  9. 
She  was  almost  ninety-one  years  of 
age.  Her  contributions  to  the  musi- 
cal culture  of  Utah  were  invaluable. 
Although  she  was  the  mother  of 
nine  children,  she  still  found  time 
to  sing  at  countless  funerals— with- 
out recompense,  and  was  frequently 
contralto  soloist  with  the  Taber- 
nacle choir.  In  her  native  Christi- 
ania,  now  Oslo,  Norway,  she  sang 
(at  a  Latter-day  Saints  Church  con- 
cert) ''Solveig's  Song"  from  the 
Peer  Gynt  suite  by  Grieg.  This  was 
the  song's  first  public  rendition. 
The  choir  leader  was  a  member  of 
the  Christiania  orchestra  which  was 
rehearsing  Grieg's  work.  The  direc- 
tor of  the  famous  orchestra  was  in 
attendance  and  was  very  enthus- 
iastic about  Miss  Olsen's  voice. 
J^ACKINANNY  is  a  story  by  Mrs. 
Lizzie  O.  Borgeson  White  and 
granddaughter  Dianne  Olivia  White 
about  two  little  girl  friends,  one  In- 
dian and  one  white,  and  their  com- 
mon interest  in  the  story  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon. 
npO  be  published  in  the  National 
Anthology  oi  Patriotic  Decla- 
mation,  1948,  is  Mrs.  Bertha  A. 
Kleinman's  poem,  "The  Empire  of 
the  Free."  Selected  as  one  of  the 
outstanding  poems  among  3,000  en- 
tries in  the  Thanksgiving  contest  of 
the  National  Poetry  Foundation,  it 
received  a  merit  citation.  It  has  a 
fine,  marching  rhythm,  and  sonor- 
ous, ringing  diction. 
Page  247

EDITORIAL 
VOL.  35 
APRIL  1948 
NO.  4 
cJhe  KyLnnual  i^eneral  Lyhurch 
(conference 
AS  the  season  approaches  for  call- 
ing together  the  greatest  as- 
semblage held  on  earth— a  general 
conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints— all 
members  have  cause  to  reflect  upon 
the  deep  significance  of  the  occasion 
and  the  great  responsibility  resting 
upon  the  leaders  of  the  Church  and 
upon  this  people.  It  is  a  time  ap- 
pointed for  the  gathering  in  of  the 
saints  from  near  and  far,  to  learn 
the  will  of  the  Lord  from  the  lips  of 
his  chosen  servants  during  these  last 
days  of  prophetic  import. 
To  one  but  recently  arrived  from 
a  distant  land,  attendance  at  a  great 
general  conference  in  the  Taber- 
nacle is  a  never-to-be-forgotten  ex- 
perience. Instead  of  meeting  with 
a  mere  handful  of  saints,  often  un- 
der stringent  circumstances,  he  now 
finds  himself  crowded  into  a  mag- 
nificent and  unique  edifice  made 
hallowed  by  the  faithfulness  and 
sacrifices  of  its  pioneer  builders  and 
the  stalwart  saints  who  have  suc- 
ceeded them.  He  sees  those  living 
prophets,  seers,  and  revelators,  pre- 
viously revered  names,  seated  in 
majesty  behind  the  rising  tiers  of 
pulpits.  He  notices  the  great  center 
of  the  building  filled  with  members 
of  the  priesthood,  leaders  in  the 
stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church. 
Page  248 
Even  to  a  regular  attendant  it  is  a 
sight  which  never  fails  to  thrill  and 
inspire,  and,  as  the  anthems  of 
praise  to  the  Lord  rise  ever  higher, 
accompanied  by  the  deep  and 
mighty  tones  of  the  organ,  the  be- 
holder seems  to  become  a  part  of 
heaven  on  earth. 
All  saints  who  are  privileged  to 
attend  a  general  Church  conference 
should  come  with  broken  hearts  and 
contrite  spirits,  offering  themselves 
as  receptive  vessels  into  which  may 
be  freely  poured  the  blessings,  ex- 
hortations, injunctions,  and  com- 
mandments pronounced  by  the  liv- 
ing prophets.  While  this  Church 
has  a  promise  that  the  gospel  will 
never  be  given  to  another  people, 
the  tempo  at  which  the  will  of  the 
Lord  may  be  done  on  the  earth  de- 
pends, in  great  measure,  upon  the 
faithfulness  and  obedience  of  the 
members  of  the  Church  who  must 
prove  themselves  worthy  instru- 
ments in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  that 
he  may  speedily  accomplish  his  pur- 
poses. 
Let  each  saint,  then,  live  by  the 
Master's  words,  "Not  my  will  but 
thine  be  done,"  and  whether  or  not 
he  can  attend  a  general  Church  con- 
ference in  person,  let  him  in  reality 
be  a  participant  through  reading, 
studying,  and  obeying  the  words  of

EDITORIAL  249 
the  prophets  as  enunciated  therein,  be  done  on  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven/' 
Then  will  the  passing  of  each  gen-  and  look  forward  with  eager  expect- 
eral  conference  mark  an  increase  in  ancy  to  the  fulfillment  of  this  prayer 
the    righteousness    of    the    saints,  on  earth. 
Then  can  they  truly  pray  ''thy  will  M.  C.  S. 
»  ♦  « 
(congratulations  to  Lrresident  Smith 
\:yn  criis   [Birthaayi,  .jLpril  jftn 
npHE  world-wide  membership  of  Relief  Society  extends  birthday  greetings 
to  President  George  Albert  Smith  on  the  occasion  of  his  seventy-eighth 
birthday.    We  wish  him  health  and  happiness  and  the  strength  to  continue 
his  great  work  in  a  world  which  needs  the  faith  and  vision  of  men  of  God. 
People  everywhere  are  seeking  for  leaders  who  have  the  courage  and  the 
wisdom  to  chart  a  way  through  the  difficulties  that  beset  all  countries  to- 
day. We,  as  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  given  a  great  leader,  a  kindly, 
understanding  man,  who  walks  close  to  his  people,  and  whose  lofty  spirit 
is  ever  in  tune  with  God.  May  the  faith  and  prayers  of  the  women  of  the 
Church  be  manifest  for  our  dear  President  and  may  the  coming  years  bring 
him  comfort  and  joy  in  the  service  he  loves. 
Jt    I  ie\s)  cjeature  for  the    1 1  iagazine 
\     new    feature— ''From  Near  and  Far"— makes    its    first    appearance 
with  this  issue  of  the  Magazine.    This  page  is  designed  to  feature  com- 
ments from  readers,  notes  about  authors,  and  other  items  of  interest.  Read- 
ers are  invited  to  submit  brief  paragraphs  of  opinions,  suggestions,  and  inter- 
esting notes  "From  Near  and  Far." 
DEBUT  OF  SPRING 
Aileen  M.  Ovedelt 
Clean  and  cool,  the  April  rain 
Glistens  on  each  window  pane, 
Sprinkling  diamonds  on  the  town, 
Shimmering  beads  on  branches  brown, 
Cleansing  everything  anew 
For  Lady  April's  spring  debut.