[Making Our Homes More Livable by Christine H. Robinson]

Making Our Homes More Livable Christine H. Robinson Member, Relief Society General Board HEE is my heart, my happiness, my home. Here, inside the lighted window, is my love, my hope, my life.
Peace is my companion on the pathway winding to the threshold.
Inside this portal dwells new strength in the security, serenity, and radiance of those I love above life itself.
Here will I build new dreams— dreams that tomorrow will come true. The world over, these are the thoughts at eventide when footsteps turn ever homeward. In the haven of the hearthside is rest and peace and comfort. Thus, Abraham Lincoln summed up the true spirit of the ideal home.
This is the kind of home we as Relief Society members want for our families—a place where consideration, kindliness, and happiness glow. We want our families to grow up in homes which are havens of security, builders of spirituality, stabilizing forces in an uncertain world.
Rich and lasting pleasures come from creating a livable home.
There are deep satisfactions in taking a mere house and building beauty, comfort, and charm into it, and in endowing it with the imprint of our personalities.
Decorating a house is an exciting and challenging experience. It has ever been one of the deep inner urges of mankind to seek to make his place of abode more beautiful.
Even the ancient cave men felt the need to make their shelters more than mere dwellings.
They beautified their caves by etching and painting pictures and designs on the bare stone walls. Similarly, we today seek to enrich our homes with beauty. We strive to make them not only more pleasant places in which to live, but we want them to express the true personality of our families.
Houses have personalities just as surely as do the people who live in them. The first principle of effective interior decorating consists in making sure that the personality of the home expresses the personalities of those who live in it. We cannot possibly be at our best in a house that conflicts with our personalities any more than we can be completely at ease with clothes that are illfitting and in poor taste. The more neatly our home expresses the personality of our family the happier and more contented we and our loved ones who live in it will feel. It is when we step out of role and try to pattern our homes after the Joneses that we set the stage for a feeling of frustration. Recently, I was in the home of a well-to-do Salt Lake family. I was surprised to find it to be a small, unpretentious apartment. However, it had been decorated in such a manner as to give it a friendly, homelike, and gracious atmosphere. I commented about the decorative scheme and the family told me that for the first time in many years they were truly happy in their surroundings. Previously, they had lived in a large house which had been decorated in the formal manner.  652
They had lived in this large house for seventeen years, but had never really been contented.
Their elaborately decorated living room was used solely for entertaining and when they ate in their spacious dining room, they were almost afraid even to speak to one another.
They hastened to assure me that they were always very proud of this house, that it was decorated in a grand and authentic manner, but they had never really been happy in it. Hey are fundamentally quiet, home-loving people and a formal house conflicted with their personalities. E want to create a home background in which we will be happy and at ease. The feeling we wish to create will influence the selection of the room's color scheme, and the choice and arrangement of the furniture. If yours is a quiet family which likes to read a great deal and listen to the radio, you will naturally prefer quiet, restful colors and furnishings. A home expressing novelty and _ sophistication would be out of place and disappointing. On the other hand, if your family is definitely the outdoor type, loving active sports, you will want your home and its furnishings to be colorful yet sincere in lines and type. In your decorating you will want to express the feeling of free, open informality and not fill your rooms with delicate frills and fragile knickknacks. However, if yours is a consetvative family, rich in tradition and genealogy, you might be quite unhappy unless your furniture and furnishings are of genuine period  design and your rooms are tastefully decorated with rare old china and glass. It is only when we get the true personality picture of our family firmly fixed in our minds that we can take the first step towards making our homes more livable. To make our homes more livable we need not make them pretentious. In fact, if our homes are to reflect us, they must definitely stay within the limits of our spending capacity. 'This brings us to the second principle of effective interior decorating. Our homes must fit our budgets. 'This principle was impressed upon my mind in one of the first classes I attended in interior decorating. One of my classmates was a clever, artistic girl who had a career of her own, but who had recently married a clerk in a small store. As a class assignment, she was planning her apartment, and for her bedroom she selected beautiful white velvet draperies and bedspreads. At the end of the school term we were all surprised when the instructor gave her a low grade. She had prepared a_ considerable amount of artistic work for the class, but the teacher explained that she had not learned one of the cardinal rules of decorating, namely, that our homes must be in keeping with our financial status. A third important principle of effective interior decorating is planning.
Many of today's homes, like Topsy, "just grew." I suppose that all of us, at one time or another, have bought items for our houses without any clear idea of what we were going to do with them. If we repeat this error too often we may not only undermine our budgets, MAKING OUR HOMES MORE LIVABLE but we may build homes that lack personality and unity.
Only by following a carefully conceived plan can we make sure that our home decorating develops in unity and good taste.
Every purchase of furniture or furnishings and every decision regarding painting, wallpaper, and color combinations should be made in accordance with a definite plan. By following such a procedure, we can avoid being sold things our homes do not need and which later we may want to discard. We can keep from being influenced by high pressure salesmanship and can avoid 653 the mistake of buying things just because they are in style or because our friends have bought them. Asa matter of fact, when the salesman tells us that "this is the latest style" or "this is what everyone is now buying," then is the time for us to be careful. We want our homes to express our personalities and to fill our needs. The fact that a particular item or color is what everyone else is buying or is the latest thing on the market is no reason for our buying it. It might be just the thing we should avoid! I know some of you are going to say, "If we could throw out everyCourtesy, C. H. Henders, Inc., Fairlawn, New Jersey Wallpaper is a decorative note in this small hall. By using the same paper in the living room and in the hall they are unified. 
654 
Courtesy, C. H. Henders, Inc., Fairlawn, New Jersey Space has been used to good advantage in this small breakfast or dining room. Thing we now have in our homes and start over, or if we could buy a new this or a new that, then we could have the kind of home we want." But, as we have said before, it is not the expenditure of large sums of money which guarantees a well-planned and well-decorated house. It's how we spend what money we have, and the thought and care we put into arranging and decorating that which we already have that brings the greatest satisfaction. ECAUSE a piece of furniture is old doesn't necessarily mean it must be dull. The use of a little imagination and some good hard work can completely transform characterless furniture. If we strip off the gingerbread from some of our pieces and apply a fresh coat of paint, for example, a semi-gloss black which is used so extensively these day, we will be amazed at the new life and beauty that may be brought back to these old pieces. Old furniture and furnishings should not be discarded until they have been given most careful appraisal and consideration. Often, drab, uninteresting pieces, with a bit of work and imagination, can be made into things of beauty and distinction. Those of you who have rejuvenated old pieces know the thnll that comes from creating something new. Simplicity is the fourth impor- MAKING OUR HOMES MORE LIVABLE tant principle of effective decorating. Simplicity must be the keynote of all interior planning. Simplicity, however, is net easy to achieve. It takes a great deal of thought and planning to create a room which is comfortable, beautiful, yet simple. Comfort, beauty, and simplicity, however, are closely interdependent and interrelated. Beauty does not mean mere prettiness and ornamentation. Beauty means "that quality or combination of qualities in a thing which gives pleasure to the senses or pleasurably exalts the mind or spirit." Beauty uplifts us both mentally and spiritually and gives that quality which we learn to love rather than to tire of quickly. 655
After having considered the four fundamental principles of effective interior decoration: (1) Expression of personality, (2) Appropriateness to family needs and budgets, (3) Planning, and (4) Simplicity, the next step consists in using properly the tools with which these principles can be put into effect.
Color is the first important tool we can use to give life and interest to our homes and a "lift" to those who dwell in it.
Color is considered to be the number one element in decorating. It is the first thing we see and feel when we enter a room. We have all been in homes which impressed us as being beautiful. In attempting to explain them later, Courtesy, C. H. Henders, Inc., Fairlawn, New Jersey This attractive room, through simplicity and quiet restfulness. Harmony, expresses a feeling of  ase * ioe oa Ons ie Be Oe cae. Be Courtesy, C. H. Henders, Inc., Fairlawn, New Jersey The proper choice and hanging of pictures in this bedroom help to add interest and unity in the decorating. We have found ourselves unable to describe what was in them, yet we know the over-all effect to be beautiful. The proper use of color, in most cases, ls the real reason for this effect of beauty.
Color can change a dull home into one sparkling with personality. It can give us a feeling of peace or a sense of restlessness.
When we have little money to spend, color can make up for the lack of good furniture.
Color can also divert attention from bad architectural features.
Small rooms can be made to look larger by the use of light colored walls and cool shades, and by painting the wood trim the same color as the walls.
Large rooms can look more compact through the use of deeper shades of warm colors, or by using wallpaper of a bold design.
Sharp contrasts can be employed in large rooms.
They tend to diminish size as well as add interest: High ceilings can be made to look lower if they are painted a deeper shade than the walls. By the opposite treatment, low ceilings can be made to look higher. If a sofa or chair looks too large in a room, its size can be minimized by painting it or covering it with a color which blends into the walls. On the other hand, if we have something which we wish to emphasize, such as an interesting mantel or piece of furniture, it can be drama- MAKING OUR HOMES MORE LIVABLE tized by the use of a sharp contrasting color. OST of us have good color sense but we are afraid to express our tastes. If we are to decorate interestingly, we must not be afraid of color.
Color is fun and challenging to work with. It is the one tool with which we can express our individualities. A wise combination of imagination and _practical application of color will add vitality to our interior decoration. It will give a feeling of zest and vigor to our homes. Color, of course, must be used with discrimination. Too many 657 colors in a room produce an effect of confusion. In your decorating, you should confine yourself to the use of three or four main colors and employ them in balanced proportions. For example, in a fairly large living room, you might choose a floral drapery with a gray background with shades of green and pink with yellow accents. The walls and wood trim might be in deep gray, the ceiling pink, the floor carpeted in blue gray. A sofa in this room might be in chartreuse, two chairs in deep green and one covered in the drapery material.
With green lamp shades, this would be an attractive color scheme. Courtesy, C. H. Henders, Inc., Fairlawn, New Jersey Both a focal point of interest and a conversational grouping are created by thoughtful furniture arrangement in this room. Oth. [gf You are usin at one ro €veral smal] Pictures you should OWS into the tt. "Powe this hang them Pairs or groups, elect, you should use vatying shades In €Corating Ndows it js alwa f your main Color as touches in al] Wise to be S€nerous with the he rooms and thus mak YOUr enterials used.
This does not mean tire house a Complete unit by tying to be E€nerous in money, byt Tather all the colors together. Ith yarda © Full, Nexpensive ere is an j Portant Suggestion Well-chosen Materials ay far more N your decorating always start With — effective nN skimpy expensive 4 color a shades "goter than draperies. Or best e Curtains you ultimately want it to be. Co Ors should be hung full an Just clear ave a quick Way of mellowing ang the floor, toning down SO that wi © s€cond too You can emplo ut go Corating Ptnciples at you wanted and int effect js £00d room aTangeYou will ayoig that dul] and faded ment, mes are m © INvitin O and Comfortable thro conven Just as you should 3
Oid the use lent a Tangement of furniture Pieces of to Many colors, so you should We have al] had the erience of © careful not to employ too many entering toom Which were SpotPatterns; YOur room. Here again, _lessly clean but Which lef US with simplicity j, € keynote Too a feeling of nfusion, We May not many patterns jn "700m produce a be we Witte 4p it down contused and y Casy feeling. Hree Although the furnity © May be istinct patt "MS are all that Should _ placed i metrically, the oom © used in th average smal] Toom, lacks ch individuality and one of these should be a stripe hominess h a roo has poor or dot. Uurniture ar ngement Pictures form an Important Part of our decorating schemes. Good 'THE first Step in furniture alTange Pictures, Caretully select. D, add colo ent consists j an Interest to 3
Toom cal center, we ounted May wish to Se the fireplace, 4 and framed Pictures, however Must large Window, or even a long wal] € chosen Carefully 59 that they Ww atever snot We select, our furdve the same basic Colors as are niture alTangement Should begin at being €mphasized jn the roo IS point, Pictures Jo k best Whe hung We are al] familiar With the over furniture StOups.
They should decorating m, " V€rsationa] € hung close ""Ough fo the top stoup."
This term means exact] Of the furniture °° as to create a what it a unit.
Wide expan YS, a gtoup of furniture Ses of wal] Space which €nables | f Pictures and umniture de. MAKING OUR HOMES MORE LIVABLE comfort and friendliness. Small, as well as large rooms, can be decorated with single dramatic conversational furniture groupings. It may take a little more ingenuity and imagination, in a small room, to plan such a group, but by the use of a strong accent color on the piece we wish to dramatize and the grouping of the furniture around the focal point, we can achieve a center of interest which will attract all who enter the room.
With such a grouping, our friends will not need to pause and wonder just where in the room they should go.
Another obvious point to keep in mind in furniture arrangement is that care should be taken to avoid placing pieces where they might disrupt normal flow of traffic and make it difficult for people to move around in the room.
Doors and main travel lanes within a room should be kept free from furniture obstacles. Obviously, in a short presentation of this type it is impossible to discuss all of the details and methods 659 that are important in creating livable homes. However, the principles of personality expression, appropriateness to family need, planning, and simplicity, plus the tools of color and room arrangement, if properly followed and applied, will do much to lay the foundation upon which pleasant and satisfying home surroundings may be built. Our homes are the focal points upon which a strong and spiritually minded society may grow. The home is so very important that even the devil himself, through the ideologies which he is now spreading throughout the world, is constantly trying to undermine it. As Latter-day Saints, we must do all in Our power to preserve and promote family unity.
Anything we can do to make our individual homes more charming, beautiful, and livable will help to build the family unit and enable it to grow on a more solid spiritual foundation. The home reflects the heart and spirit of those who make it. It is potentially the greatest spiritualizing force on earth today. <> Nlosa lc Christie Lund Coles Mauve and bronze and crimson hills, Lying in the sun, Here is the mosaic ~ Saying summer is done; Here is golden proof that though Winter will be white, There has been a harvest For the longest night; There has been a pattern In stalk, in flower, in seed, Bread and beauty mingled, To satisfy each need. You Can