[Literature: The English Bible by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature supremely worthy of our We love best that which we understand most thoroughly. To know the Bible as a work of beauty, to identify its Power over men throughout time, to know the story of how our Bible has grown into its present form— these intensify its sacredness by bringing it more intimately into our Own minds and hearts. For those who love and believe the Bible, it is the Holy Bible, which Is as it should be. But in our zeal to learn its teachings that we might become doers of the word, often we forget to appreciate the magical beauty of the vessel in which Holy Writ is conveyed to us.
While we recognize translation as the source of potential and actual error in doc. Trine, we must not forget to Marvel that the original wedding of holithen, the King James Bible is the fruit of a great love, 703
That they caught the great vision of the Bible cannot be doubted, SO successThe Bible js more than fact; it Is emotion and spirit as well, Fac.
Tual books are necessary and good, but man's destiny is formed by valbrilliance and spiritual exaltation. As does all great literature, the Bible does speak to the head, but only after the message has first warmed and fed thre heart. For example, attempt to read the following sentences without allowing them to influence the emotions: "The heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth his handiwork" (Psalms, 19:1). "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form and void: and 704 darkness was upon the face of the earth" (Genesis 1:1-2).
Immediately one senses a certain scope and depth, a liberating vision of the inner eye which sets such words apart as uncommon clay.
Such writing speaks not to the reason alone, but to the moving spirit within. It has the unmistakable singing voice of great poetry. Its majesty, its simplicity, have Captured the greatness of the original and its power strikes a note not to be confused with any other.
Once we contrast such prose with the excellent but imperfect translations which preceded 1611, (see text, pp. 521-523), or with the flat modem translations, we understand more fully why the King James Version is read by more than ninety per cent of all English-speaking Christians. As we have already pointed out, the King James Version is great litcrature because it excels both in content and in the beauty of its exPression when translated into English. The background of all its books and the patterns of thought are Oriental, but the cadence and tone of its language, the flowing ease in which the ideas are ex. Pressed, owe a great debt to the original authors and also to those who finally translated the Bible into English.
Thus the Bible com: bines the best of these 'two traditions which have many characteristics common to both; a high seriousneéss, a passion for truth and right, and a broad view of life.
When such qualities were caught and preserved in the almost perfect phrases of the English language, a memorable blending was produced.  OW let us suppose together.
Suppose your Relief Society classroom was whisked away to seventeenth-century England, there to be transformed immediately into Hampton Court, where a conference of churchmen from all England is meeting. The year: 1604. Presiding: James I, King of England. Speaking: Dr. John Reynolds, President of Corpus Christi College. The question being discussed: a new translation of the Bible. If your group numbers between forty-seven and fifty-four, it was a group of scholars just your size which was appointed to translate the Bible.
Suppose you were one of these most learned gentlemen in England, trained in language and theology, devoutly religious, and humble at making an attempt at restating the very word of God. Fear, and suffocation under your emotional and spiritual load, might well engulf you. Yet for thirtythree months the six groups of scholars (two each at Oxford, Cambridge, and Westminster) worked independently and then conferred until they agreed in perfect harmony, peace, and exaltation of spirit. For nine more months two men from each group met daily as a revising committee.
Finally the translation was completed in 1611, seven years after it had been proposed. You might well ask how we can know whether they worked together harmoniously, peacefully, and in exaltation of spirit.
Consider the words of their translation: "Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me" (John 14:1), LESSON DEPARTMENT If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love (John 15:10). The Lord bless thee, and keep thee: The Lord make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee: The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee peace (Numbers 6:24-26).
Here we detect the simplicity of greatness. It hardly seems possible that such serenity can be concealed in little words so common and unimpressive when arranged by pens less sensitive and sincere. As for the harmony of the Bible as a whole, it is impossible to detect lapses from the general excellence of tone which identifies the Old and the New Testament, and all the books therein. We should also remember that at the completion of the King James translation John Milton had been living for three years, while Shakespeare was to live for but five years more.
That the three highest pinnacles ever reached in English (the writings of Milton and Shakespeare and the King James Version of the Bible) should thus overlap is not to be counted mere coincidence.
They were written when England was fearless, aggressive, and Godfearing, and her language expanded in pace with the great hopes and loves of her mighty sons. 'The richness of invention can be measured in part by the phrases which were turned with such aptness and precision by the translators that they are seemingly forever a part of our daily speech. To attempt a listing of all images in our language which had their origins in the King James 705
Version would be out of place here; however, a few such familiar terms might well be listed: Still small voice—labor of love—broken reed—widow's mite—apple of his eye —powers that be—clear as crystal—salt of the earth—handwriting on the wall— a "Judas," etc. While undoubtedly we take such terms for granted, we should acknowledge that someone must receive the honor of creating them, and once more we must acknowledge our debt to the Bible. The Authorized Version of 1611 was by no means the final translation. From its first edition until the Revised Version was published in England in 1885, nearly a hundred translations appeared, each attempting to correct existing inaccuracies. From 1900 to 1925 more than twenty-five versions of the New Testament appeared, many apparently justified by new findings in the growing field of Bible archaeology. In 1936, however, when the book The Bible Designed to be Read as Living Literature appeared, it was found to be almost entirely in the King James Version. Never before nor since 1611 has the sympathetic, creative art of translation come near approaching the culmination of English prose which then appeared. Earlier English Translations If the Authorized Version's literary supremacy has never since been challenged, neither should we imagine that it suddenly bloomed into being beneath a mysterious gooseberry bush. Actually the socalled King James Version of 1611 706 was the third "authorized" version, since both the Great Bible of; 539 and the Bishop's Bible had been authorized by the Ki to be read at Public Worship seryices of the Church of England, The desire of the King James a new Bible, many revisions, to make good translations better, Ones [to make] one Principal good one." The Bishop's Bible (1568) was accepted by all scholars as the main man. The Bishop's Bible itself was a revision of the Great Bible (1539) which was a revision of Matthew's Bible ( 4 combination of 'fF Testament (1526) and Coverdale's Bible (1535), the first complete Bible to be printed in English. Preliminary to all these were the first great English Bible made from the Latin Vuland 1384 under the  tion was the sole translation of the | than a thousand '10n ln 1881 pointed out that eighty Likewise forced fo print his translation on the E loved deeply the of God. Rising magnificently to Truly man has surpassed himself in Bible, monument of English prose," 
708