[Joanna—Chapter 10 by Margery S. Stewart]

Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 10
Synopsis: Joanna, widowed when her children were small, courageously works into a profitable business selling Bostonbaked beans and bakery goods. Her neighbor, Abigail Smith, as a_ partner, gives much hard work and good advice. Joanna, placing the welfare of her children first, buys a comfortable home from Kent Taylor, a writer, acting temporarily as a real estate agent. In order to attend a P. T. A. Meeting, Joanna breaks a date with Kent and he leaves town. Joanna and Abigail open a number of new shops and Joanna finds her life enriched with many new friends and the abiding love of her children. Kent Taylor returns from an assignment in Europe and asks Joanna to marry him. In order to become Kent's wife, Joanna plans to leave her children in Abigail's care for six months while Kent will be stationed in New York. Just before the wedding, however, Joanna decides that she cannot leave her children, especially while Penny is going out with a young man of questionable character. That would take Kent away. She had intended to go speak to him, wish him well. But when she saw the crowd around him, she put aside the desire. She could not bear to say her farewells before their curious eyes. Kent looked thinner; he was carrying his hat and his bright hair was like a banner in the drab gray and black of pavement and trains and tracks. Joanna stood on the outskirts of a group of people seeing a girl off to school. She watched Kent shake hands with his friends. His sister was a tall, gray-haired woman, who dabbed at her eyes. J iat vo went down to the train Kent kissed her and said something in his slow, teasing way. Joanna turned away. Rebellion seized her. It was like closing a door on rich, vivid beauty, on laughter, and adventure and tenderness. For a wild, anguished moment she thought she must go to him, push aside the people and cry out his name, and be held in peace against him. She wet her dry lips and went away. Abigail met her at the door. Had been crying. Joanna paused. "What is it? One of the children?" Abigail shook her head. "It's you. Come in by the fire and let me bring you something to drink. You've looked like death for the past few days." Joanna asked, "Where is Penny?" Abigail smiled. "Not with that Tom youll be glad to know. She's down arranging for those music lessons you promised her. Mothers have been phoning." "Mothers?" "Penny's friends. 'Their mothers want to thank you for breakin' the ice. Now they can do the same for their daughters." Joanna sank into the flowered chair by the fireplace. She looked into the slim mirror that stood above the small table on the opposite wall. She made a wry face and pulled off her hat. "SomePage 681
She 682 thing's gone out of me. I look like an old woman."
Abigail brought her a glass of milk and some thin, buttered toast. 'Nonsense! You never looked lovelier... In a peaked sort of way. I think... I think you are a beautiful woman." "Goodness!" said Joanna, "you've never paid me such a compliment. Where's Sally?" "Rehearsing for a Mutual play. She insists that you have all the cast here after the play. If you can do it for Penny, she thinks you can do it for her."
Joanna sipped her milk. "Of course I can. I will have plenty of time, now, plenty of time.' She put the glass down. "Sally's a practical little thing." "She's not stardust and poetry," Abigail agreed. "But she has a good head on her shoulders.
Makes me think of you."
Joanna slumped back wearily. "What would I do without you, Abigail?"
Abigail sat in the opposite chair and reached for the knitting that hung in the blue bag over the arm. "David wants to join the navy air corps." "T know," Joanna said. "If I can just make him wait another year." "Let him go, Joanna. He will come back." "Abigail? How do you know?"
Abigail bent over her knitting. "I just know. Let him go, Joanna. It will be all right." * * * * HE years that had flown so swiftly now dragged interminably. The hours in the day between the postman's visits were slow  agony. But, as new day obliterated yesterday, Joanna ceased to watch.
There would be no letter ftom Kent.
Typical of him, to cut with a surgeon's brutal neatness the lump of pain, lest it grow cancerous. I should do the same, she thought. She watched the papers.
When they carried brief items about him she cut the paragraphs and put them in the bottom drawer of her desk. A national magazine carried an article of his. On the front page she found his picture. He looked startlingly gaunt. His hair had been cut close to his head. He had been in Poland.
Joanna wondered if he had time or wish to think of her at all. She put the picture with the clippings. She had little time to brood.
David went into the Navy Air Corps. Joanna's nights now included torturing dreams of a burning plane spinning to earth. But the house was alive and noisy and young with the activities of her children.
Penny was enthusiastic about her music. The grand piano Joanna bought her was seldom silent when she was home.
Sally brought the better part of her class home every afternoon, and Joanna coming home would find the living room and dining room filled with bright-eyed youngsters who were beautifully courteous and forever hungry.
Michael was a boy scout and took to sleeping out in the back yard, or rising before dawn to go on never-ending hikes. He _ eluded Joanna and she grieved over him. She had never had time to know her youngest. She felt awkward with him, not knowing his life. It seemed secret and apart, peopled JOANNA with strange boys called "Stink" and "Clip" and "Saddy."
Tossing restlessly one Saturday morning, Joanna heard Michael rise and move about his room. She rose, too, and threw her robe about her. He was tiptoeing down the stairs when she caught up with him. "Michael, where are you going?" She leaned over the railing and he tilted his head to look at her.
Joanna almost cried out, his resemblance to his father was so strong. He grinned. "Just out. It's almost light." "But where?" "Got a place I gotta see. Don't worry about me, Mom. If I hitch a ride I'll be back before noon." "T can't sleep. Can I drive you?" "Say!
Would you, Mom?" She accepted his delight as if it had been a gift of pearls. "Just a minute. I'll be ready." She dashed back to her room and found an old gray skirt and a black sweater and _ black, low-heeled pumps. She tossed a short red jacket over her shoulders and went downstairs.
Michael was in the kitchen filling his knapsack. "We'll be hungry, Mom."
They stole out to the garage and, feeling like a fugitive, Joanna switched on the ignition and eased down the driveway. "Where to?" "Up Lamb's Canyon." HEY drove down the dark, deserted streets. It had rained and the air was heavy with the smell of rich summer earth and roses and rain-wet leaves. '""This is exciting," Joanna said. 683 "This isn't half of it."
Michael leaned back against the cushion. It was beginning to be light when they reached the cariyon, but the underbrush on either side was still black and the mountains were blacker against the pearl sky. A deer bounded across the road.
Michael cried out.
Joanna stole a look at his freckled, blunt little face. It was ecstatic.
They reached a bend in the road and Michael said, "Here, Mother.
Stop here." Obediently, she parked the car a little off the road. He was out in a moment, like a caged thing set free. "Now you just come along with me. I'll show you something." She followed him along the dewwet path, hugging her arms over her breast to keep out the chill. He plunged ahead of her, reminding her of a small puppy, sniffing the wind, reading the sky. His hand reached out to touch every tree they passed, as if they were friends. He paused, finally, beside a small, hurtling stream. "This is a good place. Now watch me build a fire."
Joanna leaned against the bole of a tree and watched him pick up twigs and arrange them carefully in a wigwam effect. He lighted a match and knelt to hold it against a tiny curl of paper. 'There was a fullness in Joanna of tears and laughter. 'The laughter she could hold, but the tears scattered on her face. She wiped them away quickly with the back of her hand and went to kneel beside the tiny blaze. "One match," he prodded. "T saw, Michael. I think you're wonderful." He opened his knapsack and took 684 out a frying pan, two plates, forks and knives, bacon, and eggs. By a great effort, Joanna kept from telling him that the pan was too hot for the bacon. She sat on a rock and breathed in the smell of pine and river, and listened to the small creek hurl itself over stones and around the bend. 'The bacon was slightly burned, but the eggs were fried to a queen's taste.
Joanna ate hungrily and held out her plate for more. "You come here alone?" He smiled at her crookedly, bread making a lump in his cheek. "Every chance I get. You have it all to yourself this time of the morning. You get to see the sun come up and when it's half light, like this, you can pretend you're the only person who ever came here." He poked the fire with a stick, It crackled under his touch and sparks flew upward to the lightening sky. Joanna's fork made a little clink when she put it on the plate. "It was nice of you to let me come here." He buttered another slice of bread and spread it generously with strawberry jam. "Sometimes I pretend you're here with me. I show you things... Way up on the hill." "Oh," said Joanna, "I wish I had known." HE took a big bite of the bread. 'When I'm grown up I'm going to have some land.
Lots of it.
Miles and miles of it, if folks haven't used it all up. Mom, do you think people will have bought up all the land?
Will there be just cities all over?"  "T don't think so, Michael.
What will you do with all your acres?" "Plant wheat, oats, have cattle. You can come and live with me and we'll sell the old bakeries. You can just sit in a chair all day long and look at my land." "When I am an old lady," she agreed gravely, "I'll rock in the sun and watch for you to come home from the fields." He sighed deeply. "Won't that be perfect though? I I pray for it every night." He looked at her shyly. He cleaned up the camp and afterwards they climbed the hill and sat side by side, watching the sun come over the ridge. 'Twigs snapped around them from the feet of small hidden things, and birds began a wild caroling. "This has been good, Michael. Let me come again,' Joanna pleaded. He rose with her and led her down to the car. "We'll do this lots. I know even better places than this, places that Stink and Saddy haven't any idea about." "What do Stink and Saddy call you, Michael?": "Henderson." "Good heavens! Why?" He looked at her and grinned, "T never asked them why."
They reached home just as the others were coming down for breakfast.
Sally and Penny eyed them. "Where have you two been?"
Joanna was aware of Michael's tenseness. "Oh, around," she said vaguely, and was repaid by his sudden relieved clatter up the stairs. (To be continued ) Home Satety—a Family Affair Nellie O. Parker Former Member, Relief Society General Board distinguished speaker at the National Safety Congress held recently in Chicago said that the American home _ today needs the unifying force of religion and love; of family prayers and group projects to build strong, self-reliant, emotionally sane citizens as a safeguard for the security of the home and the Nation. A happy home where parents and children live together in love and mutual helpfulness is most likely to be a safe one too.
Safety for the family depends not only upon the conditions of the house and its equipment, but also upon the physical and emotional health of both parents and children.
There must be a feeling of well-being and security.
Physical handicaps and emotional conflicts are causes of accidents. 'The individual who is unhappy, frightened, or worried may unconsciously bring injuries to himself or others. If he has poor muscular co-ordination, defective vision, or impaired hearing, mishaps can easily happen.
Special care must be taken to protect such a one. It is important for parents to provide an environment of safety as well as creating an atmosphere of love and sympathetic understanding.
They should strive to instill a feeling of confidence in each child that he may step forward unafraid. 'The learning of the right safety attitudes and habits is fundamental in establishing this self-assurance. The burden of responsibility rests with parents, but safety at home cannot be attained without the co-operation of the whole family.
Teamwork is the key to success.
Parents and older members of the household must practice the rules of safety.
Children will unconsciously imitate their elders. If father puts his tools in a safe place and, in case there is a gun, he unloads and dismantles it immediately and then locks it securely away, the children will be set a good ex: ample and many a life will be saved.
Children will usually enter into a family project with enthusiasm especially if their interest is kindled.
They will take pride in keeping their clothing hung up and their toys put away if the storage places are glamorized.
Incorporate safety in every activity of a child's day, his health chores and his play.
Teach him to climb only as high as his age warrants, not to run with a lollipop stick or a pencil in his mouth, to hold points of scissors down and cut with a knife away rather than toward his body.
Parents should use judgment in choosing the appropriate time to teach a child the proper way to use such things as scissors, knives, skates, scooter, etc. [E is wise to appease a child's curiosity. Let him see what is cooking on the stove—he will be less tempted to pull the pot on to himself.
Show him how the food mixPage 685 686 er works. Let him strike the matches, under close supervision, for his birthday candles.
Explain the danger of doing things the wrong way. The right way is always the safe way.
Encourage children to be alert, to detect and report the hazard they find that it may be either repaired or eliminated.
Teach children to be courteous and thoughtful, especially to other children. The polite child is, in most cases, a safe child.
Examples of courtesy set by the parents and regard for the well-being of others will largely determine the children's behavior in this regard.
Living the golden rule in the home will pay dividends.
Thoughtlessness is the virus that is the insidious breeder of many home casualties.
Some parents are being indicted for their thoughtlessness and outright carelessness, for poor and inadequate supervision of their children.
Half of the fatal accidents to children occur under their own roofs and in their own yards. 'These casualties usually happen in moments of inattention or careless lack of supervision by their parents or guardians. It is inhuman to leave little ones alone in any situation where their lives could be endangered—such as leaving baby in the bathtub while mother answers the telephone, or locking him in the house or in the family car while parents shop or go to a show. 
Older children can share responsibility in safeguarding their smaller brothers and sisters if they are impressed with the importance of their charge.
They can also bring home
Encourage children to be alert, to and apply the safety rules they have detect and report the hazard they learned at school, find that it may be either repaired Organized effort is needed to or eliminated. bring safety education to parents.
Teach children to be courteous It has been proved in campaigns and thoughtful, especially to other against disease— diphtheria, smallchildren. The polite child is, in pox— that when parents know and most cases, a safe child. Examples are shown how, they act to protect of courtesy set by the parents and their children, regard for the well-being of others National statistics tell us that guardians. It is inhuman to leave Home safety means good housewhere their lives could be endan- running home-a place for everygered-such as leaving baby in the thing and everything in its placebathtub while mother answers the house and equipment m good retelephone, or locking him in the pair and a happy, loving family, house or in the family car while par- working together to keep accidents ents shop or go to a show. out of their realm.
Secrets
Elizabeth Johnson
Probe not too deeply
The corners of the heart;
Probe not profoundly
Lest the tears should start.

Let's Do Better Embroidery
Doris Feil
Every needlewoman should real- ing point. Pull until the end of ize that all needlework has two your thread is barely above the sursides, the front or "on-display side,'' face of the material— and of course and the back, or ' you're-looking-at- you have no knot in your thread, the-wrong-side," of the article. Then start embroidering, using reg-
Wherever handwork is judged com- ular outline stitch, directly over your petitively, it is the neat back and litfle running stitches. Your emnot the impressive-looking front of broidery will hide them completely an embroidered article that is al- and hold them Arm. When you ways the criterion of its workman- reach the end of the stalk, draw your ship and the sign of finished skill in thread through to the other side the needlewoman. and on the wrong side take half a There is no need for the back of dozen more tiny running stitches our embroidery to be an untidy back over the part you have just hodge-podge of knots, loose ends, finished embroidering. Cut off the long loops of thread going from end. Both the beginning and the one leaf or flower or stem to an- end of your thread are firmly held other. It is just as easy to do em- and completely invisible, without broidery that is, to all intents and any unsightly knots and untidy ends, purposes, reversible. This takes For tlie satin stitch petals of the very little longer, is amazingly easy flower, you do exacfly the same to do, and is well worth any litfle thing. Take half a dozen litfle runextra time and effort. ning stitches right on the petal of Let us suppose, for instance, that the flower to the starting point, and you are embroidering a simple spray then embroider over it until you of flowers on a napkin. You arc reach the end of the petal. Bring going to use satin stitch for the your thread through to the wrong
Page 687

688
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— OCTOBER 1949 side and then pass the thread under the embroidery on the wrong side for about a quarter to a half inch and cut flat with the cloth. Again, no knots, no ends, and your embroidery is as pretty on the wrong side as it is on the right. npHE cluster of French knots in the center offers a little different problem, but the solution is just as easy. Because of the type of stitch you are using, it is not so easy to start with running stitches and work over them. But this problem may be solved by having a big, beautiful knot at the end of the thread and starting it on the light side. Why not? You are going to have a cluster of some dozen or so knots right there, so why not have your starting knot on the right side where it will be lost in the crowd, so to speak, rather than on the wrong side where it will be conspicuous and ugly. Finish off with another knot, also on the right side, and all you will have to show on the wrong side will be a little cluster of neat, tiny, seed stitches.
Most of the common stitches used in embroidery can be adapted to this neat and effective way of commencing and finishing the work.
With cross-stitch, I do the same thing and start without any knot in my thread but with a few running stitches across the center of the crosses, which the embroidery itself later covers. And in finishing, I take a few invisible stitches underneath the cross-stitching that has already been done.
Much of the perfection of a finished piece lies in the careful selection of materials as well as in the embroidery itself. Every woman knows what wonderful dish towels can be made out of used, bleached flour sacks. Aprons, also, can be made out of these readily available materials, either plain or dyed in various shades.
But where a lot of time and effort is going into the work, it pays in the long run to spend a little more and b uy the best of materials. A lovely little luncheon cloth with a simple design can be made out of dyed flour sacking, and it will take a lot of hard wear for everyday use, but, if you are going to do an intricate design such as a cutwork cloth and napkins, only the best linen should be used and then you will have an exquisite piece that you can use all your life and your children can use and cherish after you are gone.
Cheap rayons, thin cottons, any material that is not colorfast or guaranteed against shrinkage is not worth the buying, nor the time and effort spent in working it. It hardly seems necessary to say that it is important to make sure that the thread, also, is colorfast and able to stand up to hard wear and constant washing. Nowadays, most threads are thus guaranteed, whether they are silk, cotton, rayon or wool. By following these simple rules we can do beautiful embroidery that reflects exquisite neatness on both sides—embroidery work which will wash and wear and last long enough to become heirlooms in the family.
DOS FROM THE FIBLD
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "