[Social Science: "Governments Instituted for the Benefit of Man" by G. Homer Durham]

Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 3—"Governments Instituted for the Benefit of Man'"—(D. & C. 134:1, 2] Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, January 24, 1950
Objective: To show that governments exist for the benefit of man when founded on the free exercise of conscience, right and control of property, and protection of life. Modern Attempts to Secure Peace HE quest for peace is eternal. Men in all ages have sought peace from the ravages of war.
Perhaps in no age has the yearning for peace been more real than in our own day. It is curious to note that international conferences held during peacetime for the purpose of preventing war actually—in our generation—date from the year 1899, the first Hague conference. The organized governments of the world meet together frequently nowadays under the charter of the United Nations or by other means to discuss their problems. Men seem to have placed the task of securing peace directly in the hands of the public official. 'This makes government a means to an end. To put it another way, modern man is attempting to use government as the instrument for securing peace just as a farmer might use a shovel as an instrument for digging an irrigation ditch. It takes a good shovel to make a good ditch.
Only a proper kind of shovel will do the work intended. The same is true of government.
What about government and the conditions of peace?
What kind of government is needed to achieve peace?
Declaration in Regard to Government and Peace Even though the Declaration regarding government and laws in general was written in 1835, its meaning is crystal clear today, in regard to the question of government and peace. 'The Declaration begins with a clarion call (verse one): We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society.
This verse raises four general points. First, governments are believed to be instituted of God. 'They are, therefore, worthy of human support.
They are not necessarily evil—the fruit of apostasy—as our early opponents frequently charged the Latter-day Saints with believing.
Governments are for the benefit of man. Man is not to be a slave of his government. Second, the verse raises the question that, although governments as institutions were "instituted of God" for man's benefit, are all governments worthy of being classified in this category today? Are all the present systems of government worthy of the origin, "instituted of God'?
Answers will subsequently be given. Third, the verse lays down the glorious principle that men are responsible for good government. It LESSON DEPARTMENT the freedom of all me to choose 4) We are al] Tesponsib] that S°vernment ¢ forms to t PF making Jays and Mistering basic standards "quired of the Lo hem for he "gooq Saf The bas; criterion j this standa SOClCiya, nite Makes y doubly re. S the great doctrine the free SPonsible for good Sovernment agency and ]j erty of On this Our society Principle yy, lieve the Orld was Fourth, the question js Taised, Organized a d founded €n should What is the « Od and Safety of so. Use their €edo Clety''? € Russian 4ssume cer tain things to f; 4CCordingly, to see that S°vernments € for SOCiety's ult.
Mate good and safety. Are Worthy of the Classification, "Instituted of y; the Japanese God." make Contrary assumptions. E nitish May pursue o Jectives in a ditions of Peace different wa » While th merica hat then are the conditions of yet choose t), Writte ONstitut P€aCe in soo; and the devices Peculiar to that j strument. W y, aCCepting the neN- cessi LY Of ove at can be Concluded four main po; Thment, T€COgnizin the free agency of man, and the task POints? ) administering the laws for the 800d and safet of man? How Good Is Modern €ctio 34, Verse » Teads as fo] Governme tP Ows: believe that no 80vernThe following Suggestions are ment can exist in Peace, EXCept such made. Govern, ts were institut.
Laws are f, ed and helg Inviolate €d of Gog in the cginning, '—T © 48 will secure h in Iidual th Latter-day Saint Octrine on 4 Is tree exero; O. ONSClence, the Tight Point is that the first s°vernment and cont Property, and the Was the p ernment of God. This Protection of ] €. This Verse con Was a pure, unselfish, holy form of fains what Y be called « he conS°vernme which the free ditio S of pe, et us list them agency o N Was a f Ndamenta] a Principle rd ctrin urther de 1.
Free exercise of Individual] Onscience;. 2 © Individua night an Contro] Clares t 4POstasy fro this Origof property, Inal for f govern nt took Place 3- Frotection of €ach individya] life with the Tesult th Was modified into the Vatlous ma "Made form he €claration of Belief make hat we have day, cordingly, mandatory that eve al Latter he Present g.
Vetnments are 800d day aint 7©Cognize these three basic Only to the extent that they Conform Nights as th Ndition, nop Only of the standard Pattern y, Presented Peace, but as the Standard of his In the Sovernment of God he behavior toward all Likewise act th en *Ponsible for all men are Entitled to these tights, 800d go nent and the §00d and ack, white, bond, free, male Or feSafety society, simply Means that male. At al] ti any Latter-qq it is the lask Of citize P tO see, Sain: Must stand fir SO far as jt Is possible—recognizing 710 science by all men, the night and control of property by an individual, and the protection of life on the part of any of God's children whether he be an Australian Bushman, a Chinaman, or a man named Jones, with dark or fair skin, in Kansas City or Salt Lake City, Utah. It also means that we must insist on having laws made and administered which recognize these same principles. The good and safety of society depend upon securing these rights in both domestic society and international society.
They are the conditions of peace, foreign and domestic. In this connection, it is interesting to observe that only recently, in fact since World War II, has modern man given any great public attention to the question of the international rights of man. 'The American Constitution led the way with certain declarations for individuals.
Before the Constitution, there was the Declaration of Independence, itself, and the constitutions of the thirteen original states, all approximately in the year 1776. Now, mankind's attention is turning to the knowledge that all governments, not only the American, the British, and other well-known supporters of liberty, but all governmments must protect basic, individual rights as an essential condition of peace.
There have been many proposals as to how peace and good order might be realized.
Since the fourteenth century many schemes have been proposed by such great figures as Pierre du Bois, Sully, William Penn, J. J. Rousseau, Immanuel Kant, Jeremy Bentham, William Ladd, Woodrow Wilson, and oth ers.
Most of these proposals have been predicated upon the assumption that the formation of a league, confederacy, or other political structure, is an essential condition of peace. The League of Nations, 1919-1939, and now the United Nations, represent the culmination of this type of thinking. Currently, this school of thought continues vigorously with a group favoring the establishment of a "world federal government" based largely upon American experience.
Another body of informed opinion believes that only with the employment of the scientific method in human affairs, political, economic, psychological, and social, on a wide front, can the departure of war be hastened. We know, by scientific observation and common experience, that foreigners and new-born babes alike can be absorbed into, and trained within, a given culture, say in a period of fifteen years. An American babe taken from the hospital at the time of its birth and transplanted to Russia, and a Russian babe similarly transplanted to America and raised by Americans, would, in fifteen years, have acquired the main trappings of American or Russian culture and be indistinguishable from its fellows. 'This fact suggests the scientific possibility that, should every home now existing in the world be converted to the ideal of world citizenship; and, should there be method and knowledge available in every home adequate to the task, we could train all the children born, commencing tomorrow morning, to be citizens of the world instead of citizens of single nations. The job, 712 forth in the Declaration, should give us pause while challenging out utmost skill and ingenuity in the effort to apply them.
Questions for Discussion and Lesson Helps Special Project: A ten-minute report on the Hague Peace Conferences of 1899 and 1907.
Material can be found in any en cyclopedia. 1.
What is the unusual significance of the Hague Peace Conference? 2.
When is the preferable time for a peace conference, immediately following 4 war, to clean up the debris; or, in a pe riod of relative stability when wat clouds are not on the horizon? _ What are the "conditions of peace" according to the Declaration? 4. To whom are governments responsible?. How can government's responsibility to God be assured and maintained? (The specific answer is not printed in the lesson; it has to be thought out. It is an important practical matter. If the issue was left to your class to determine, what proposals, principles, practices would you  recommend and order printed in yout local paper, for example, as "ways and means" to keep government responsible to God.
Later in the course, you can check your "policies" against the principles found in the Declaration.) 6. How can government's responsibility to man be assured? _ Besides periodic elections, what are some other devices whereby men can hold government responsible to the people? 8. How do you, the people in your council, lature, state highway department, the national army or navy, your national delegate to the UN, "responsible" OF do you even try?
Elaborate some of the methods available. Additional Projects: Assign three members of the class to investigate and report, briefly, but with specific references, mankind's long struggle to achieve: (1) freedom of conscience; (2) individual property rights; (3) 'protection of individual life. How safe or secure are these rights in the modern world? (See "Civil Liberty Today," Dr. G. Homer Durham, The Relief Society Mag; azine, May 1949, -) oo