[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1889 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" THE DOZEN GREATEST POETS: Perhaps I may be permitted to recapitulate the list of a dozen English poets whom I ventured to quote as the manifest immortals of our British Parnassus. 'They are Chaucer, Spenser, Shakespeare, Milton, Dryden, Pope, Gray, Burns, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Keats, Shelley. It will be noticed that there are thirteen names here, and my reviewers have not failed to remind me that it is notoriously difficult to count the stars. The fact is that Gray, the real thirteenth, was an afterthought, and I will admit that, although Gray is the author of what is perhaps the most imposing single short poem in the language, and although he has charm, skill and distinction to a marvelous degree, his originality, his force of production, were so rigidly limited that he may scarcely be admitted to the first rank.— Exchange SEPTEMBER At eve cool shadows fall Across the garden wall, And on the clustered grapes in purple turning, And pearly vapors lie Along the eastern sky Where the broad harvest moon is redly burning. Ah!
Soon on field and hill The winds shall whistle chill, And patriarch swallows call their flocks together, To fly from frost and snow, To seek for lands where blow The fairer blossoms of a balmier weather. —Selected A HAPPY OCCASION: At the residence of Mrs. Libbie R.
Pratt in the 17th Ward, in this city there was a joyful meeting of Sisters in the faith and fellowship, to celebrate the birthday anniversary of the venerable mother in Israel, Mrs. Sarah D. Rich, widow of the late Apostle Charles C. Rich, who on that day reached the age of 75 years. Her daughter Sarah Jane Miller was present and also Ben Rich from Ogden, and Mrs.
Pratt at whose residence the party met is also a daughter of the respected lady in whose honor they had convened together. Sister Rich has been a member of the Church 54 years and is the last one of her father's family remaining. She was recommended four times by different persons to be the wife of Apostle Rich before they saw each other, and became engaged to him by correspondence. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, St. George, Utah: Mrs. Anna Woodbury, counselor to Pres. Ivins, St. George Stake, spoke of the scattered condition of the Relief Society and the long distances the sisters must travel to visit branch organizations and the difficulties to be encountered in going to the farthest places. Yet they made a practice of visiting all around once a year. She felt to shed tears of joy when young men would rise up and bear testimony of the truth of the Latter-day work; felt much interested in the young people, spoke of the silk culture and what had been accomplished by the sisters there.