[Work Meeting: Underwear and Nightwear by Jean Ridges Jennings]

Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Underwear and Nightwear Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, January 10, 195° ONE of the important advantages of home sewing is economy. It is not always economical to make all garments at home.
Some kinds of underwear are examples of this. It would be well to study carefully the problem and see which articles of underclothing are best purchased in a store and which can be more advantageously handmade. In general, knit garments, such as vests and panties, come under the classification of those that should be purchased ready-made. However, there are times when partially worn larger knit underwear can be remade into smaller articles at a considerable saving. For all underclothing and nightwear, the first important feature to insist upon is absorbency, and, of course, after moisture is absorbed it should be able to rapidly evaporate. It is more healthful and comfortable for body moisture to be readily absorbed into clothing and as readily evaporated from it. Bird's-eye type of cotton is rated high for these qualities.
Other smooth surface cottons absorb moisture quickly. Wool, because it does not absorb readily and gives up its moisture slowly, is not so good for underwear.
Underthings that can be made at home at a great saving are slips and summer panties for little girls and night clothes for both boys and girls.
When making panties be sure that the crotches are full enough so they do not bind.
Seams should be firm and flat. Be sure leg bands and waistbands are not too tight. A good way to finish the waist is to have a fitted band across the front, with elastic at least one half inch wide only at the back.
Underslips can be made to fit from the shoulder or may be only from the waist down.
Make them dainty and attractive. For these, a ruffle around the bottom always delights the small child. Sew these or any other ruffles on with a standing fell seam. It is neat and durable.
Make it by sewing the ruffle evenly to the plain edge, right sides _together.
Trim the raw edge of the ruffle to one-fourth inch or less. Now turn in the other raw edge of Wer pelt dF h garment SId€ seams, use a Frenc seam, 4nged often. Tis as mportant for a child to be For this nightwear.
Felled seam comfortable while s] €Ping as wel] aS are best, Since they are durable When While Playing Slee ing garments Jay ered and have the ddvantage Must be TOOMy and Made so theydo 6 two Stitchings for extra strength hot bind through the Crotch. One. He butto firmly and Pl€ce garments general are tef.- ctable. Knit + bin i Past? The Cation of his statement. ONnsider, —* if you Will, hoy the Bible, with « - Ic 8lves &leatest and MOst imie i superiorit Mediate Teturns on time vested,: three ssentials of g M its rich Pages, | € schools ure, It js Some- > but Tarely taught; in Many schools Only points YOU covet to know the Yne and three are valid and the yNamically hj, spit p; le is taught Only as theology or » Waiting to be history, LESSON DEPARTMENT.