[Editorial: "The Best of Friends" by Marianne C. Sharp]

EDITORIAL OCTOBER 1949 VOL. 36 CO NO. 10 'She Best of Friends: "A good book is the best of friends, the same to-day and forever." I! May often be noted that two children who have grown to maturity side by side, whose parents have earned comparable incomes, and who, to all appearances, have had equal opportunities, still may differ widely in the richness and variety of their backgrounds. These two children moreover may sit for years in the same classrooms exposed to the same training and yet, in some subjects, one may Te veal a broader understanding and keener perception of the implications of the written word than the other. A careful appraisal of the two homes would probably indicate the reason. While the one home might contain a bookcase full of beautifully bound sets of books, the only reading material to be found throughout the rest of the house might consist of current magazines and the latest books of only passing interest. 'The second home, on the other hand, might not possess beautifully bound books, but one would fnd bookcases in neatly every room in the house containing books suited to the age of the different family members, from picture books for the youngest child to great masterpieces for the older members of the family. A. Friend once asked another, /4
Martin Farquhar Tupper "How is it that your children know all about the Roman and Greek gods and goddesses and heroes? Mine are having a struggle to learn about them in school." "Why," the mother explained, "I used to read them myths when they were small and as they grew older I bought them Bullfinch's Age of Fables and the Iliad and the Odyssey. They love those stories." "Oh," her friend replied rather blankly, "I see. To tell you the truth, I have never read those books myself." When parents are lovers of books and great readers, they usually hand down the same interest to their children. One young girl who had always been a scholar and an avid reader decided that when she had ter for each age group. At intervals for many years, the young wife and mother studied the book. When financial conditions did not allow for the purchase of a book every month for every child, she gave preference to keeping on building a library for the oldest one, since the younger ones had access to the books purchased in previous years.
EDITORIAL Birthdays, Christmases and childish illnesses also provided opportunity for additional gift books. In this way the children had "measle" books, "tonsilectomy" books, etc. It was well that the mother would go to make her purchases armed with a list of desired books, for, too often, a clerk was most interested in selling a book just off the press when the mother preferred to buy a book which had stood the test of time with many children. The children's most treasured books were their own books of scripture with their names embossed in gold upon the leather covers. These they used all through seminary and Sunday School, proud in their ownership. Over the years each child of this family became a well-read individual. With the many amusements offered young people these days— 675 movies, radio, television, and the great number of school activities which they engage in—it is all too easy to find children neglecting to tread choice books. Parents who read to their children and unobtrusively guide their reading habits by generously providing appropriate books, introduce them into a wonderful world wherein they may always find "the best of friends." Building an individual library for each child is a worthwhile project for any family. Then, as each child marries, he will carry with him to his new home the treasured volumes, which reflect his own growth in reading experiences, to form the nucleus of his own family library through which, in future years, he and his family may find lasting enjoyment and companionship at their own hearthstone. M. C. S. Wotes. 0 THE FIELD Relief Society Handbook Obtainable Only at the Office of the General Board The Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society, is available only at the office of the General Board of Relief Society, 28
Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, price 60 cents each, postpaid. 'This handbook contains official instructions on Relief Society policies and procedures. It includes a detailed index for ready reference. It will be invaluable to stake, ward, mission, and branch officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers.