[You Can Learn—Part I—A is for Adult—B is for Bride by Katherine Kelly]

Learn PART I A Ys for Aduli—B Ys for Bride Katherine Kelly [This is the first in a series of stories by a new author.] HE shade of the porch felt cool and refreshing as I sat a moment on the step watching the path through the field for the approach of my sister-in-law who was coming over this afternoon to help me put the oilcloth on the kitchen wall. I felt just a little like the man who is lord of all he surveys. My eyes traveled approvingly from the blue of the mountains that circled our little valley to the field that lay at the foot of the white clay hills. There I could see a little cloud of dust that marked the slow plod of the horses as my husband worked laying off the lucerne, so he could take the water turn at the end of the week. My husband! 'The words gave me a thrill just to think them. We had been married only one short month. And yet there was something a little strange and frightening in the word, sort of faraway like the look that came into his eyes when he looked at the land the way I was doing now. Pil just think of him as Tom, Tom with the blue, blue eyes and the kind, strong hands. Tom who loves me and is all mine. It was true I did not have to be jealous or afraid of 'Tom's love of the land. It was something we shared in common. My father was  a farmer, too, and I had always been his girl. I had gone with him every summer to the dry farm and he said I could handle a team better than any boy. He used to point out the wild flowers to me and together we shared the beauty of the wheat fields as they turned from green to gold. "Biscuits," we called the wheat, laughingly. Yes, I was from pioneer stock, and a love of the land was born in me. In fact, there were a few things about this farm which might be changed for the better. All the fences and ditches where the willows and weeds grew, bothered me. I loved the clean sweep of fields that were miles long. Although, I reminded myself, we hadn't lived on the dry farm the year around, we had just camped there during the summer. So this farm would be even better—we would have our home here. My eyes traveled on down past the intervening railroad tracks and across to the field where my imagination already saw the beets standing green and a foot high. My gaze came to rest lovingly on the trees we had planted the week before. Tom understood that I just had to have trees and had taken time out from the spring work to help me plant them.
Carolina poplars they were, like the trees by our home in 661 and they woulg STOW tall and Out of the bucket? © tree prob. Beautiful. Bird Would build their aby needed ext &T Now that nests in them a dreams Ould it was hurt and there was NO time 've among the glistenin leaves g to go t the riy Yes, J told he darker Sha eams that ar ronscience I kno OW far we ult in Stalwart tTees are Close 4, have to t, but this js an and make you look UP Into the emergency, blue of the Sky, | I dashed P all three, Eps at A Téady, in MY mind's ye, those time and Cartied out the half-filleq Tes were tall 84inst the sky and Water buck from the table in the fame back to the present With a Corner, J Poured at Jeas} {Wo quarts Start. Wha #8
Wrong about halfof the Pl€cious wate, Into the lite] Way to the top of the MOst Precious hollow we had made t the foot of Stipling of ajj> In a flash 7
Was the tree Then | 4
Nandfy] holding the slender Willow Which, of the € mu Caretully plas 4 few minutes efore in y ImaginaCred it over + Ound and Isted lion, had beco 4 full-grown othe white ¢] h around 4 ound I found the bark } 4nd the both below an bove th Teak ¢ little tree almost fwed in two &Ve the little tree support Those horses! Embered that Just as | led the last knot om had left + landing there and Patted the dage close to th Minute whi me to the tree 7 card 8
Voice "What Ouse for a drink In the Orld ar you doing?" It Y sister-in-]y Who liveg WHat Could Ido? |] would just in ¢h use to us who had ave to bing UP the wound come over ¢ help Ith the oulcloth Some way oy all ¢ 'AP would run "Did White cloth to be Out and My little Tee would le. I sure th dage Would be Sterile?" ashed int he house 4nd found she laughed he sack Tags mother had given That White clot Id look awful] me. Mothers ate so thoughtfy] ~ONSPicuous, But Was comBut [| guess if 7 hadn't }; any forting. 4S usual, and assured e Other bg dage | would have torn that mud "as the very best thing to one of my new Sheets, | elected a use When the bark of 3 tree had 800dly length ftom the Tags and ag been broken, - Plece of ine Stting to tie it @ Poor tree hurt. Comforted rp With. By > What could use newly rCquired niece 0
Was al for salye? W.
Would the little "eady the dar] ng of heart. She tree like to hea] Its wound hy, Was just two years old, mother Carth, of ¢ Use. I sco ed "Aunt Ca Oves you," | Said, 'P some of th damp earth aE the and swe E her up jin Y ams as we foot of + tree found j; was teached the Porch steps.
Already ard, though It looked She Called "Aunt ake," and it had bee Watered Only that hich, after all, is "Omething king Morning f nice, and Pretty close to Kat Dared | take just 4 little Water i. Swiped Joe kalsomj 662 to put the paste on with. We can clean it well afterwards, and he will never know the difference," Mary confided as we opened the screen door that was so new it squeaked. - Then I remembered my bread! I opened the oven door in a hurry, but the bread was baking beautifully and the smell was gratifying. I was really proud of that bread. I wasn't like most gitls of eighteen, for, being a member of a large family at home, I had learned to cook besides cooking for the hired hands on the farm during the summers. I knew how to cook, or so I thought. "What in the world are you going to do with all that bread?" gasped Mary. "Why, eat it, of course," I replied, puzzled, as I looked at the eight beautiful loaves. "Why not?" "But that will last you and Tom, just the two of you, a whole week! I never bake more than five or six loaves at a time for all my family." Well, I'll admit I wasn't averse to not having to bake again for a week, The longer it lasted the better. But a little bell rang somewhere in my consciousness and I remembered the beautiful, fresh loaves Mary baked practically every day. And I remembered how well Tom liked fresh bread. It was lesson number one, and the first one on that long road which began with "Well it's pretty good, but it's not like Mary makes." you see, in my case it was changed from "like mother used to make." Tom had lived with Mary and Joe there on the farm for years and Mary was the best cook in the world. She was also the most tact ful one and more than half of the recipes in my cookbook today are hers. She was always helpful, too. 'Today she was helping me put oilcloth around the lower part of the kitchen wall.
Ojlcloth was so easy to keep clean. So we set to work with a will. We measured and cut, plastered the glue on the wall with Joe's kalsomine brush, and fitted the oilcloth in place. We smoothed the oilcloth on with a cloth and rubbed it hard to make it stick. It was fun and it looked pretty. I had painted the woodwork white, in spite of the warning, "It will show every speck, it just isn't practical for a farm." I had made sheer white curtains for the windows, too, and stenciled bluebirds on them. At school they had said that I was artistic and I was pretty proud of myself. It wasn't every farmer who had a wife who could do that sort of thing.
Mary said, "The blue in this oilcloth just matches that in your linoleum and the bluebirds in your curtains." I smiled happily, "Yes, in spite of Sister Rass. Did you hear her the other day when she was giving the house the once over and she said, 'Will them things wash?' " Sister Rass was a distant (thank goodness) neighbor who grew to represent everything I didn't like about farm life. It was she who had said my white paint wasn't practical. Well, goodness knows, she was. The bread was done before we had finished and we stopped work to eat hot bread and honey. 663 "ich hay like a mand that she had a sistet Kathy have some, O 1" He even hinte Tom told "May ghouldn't she have hot bread ye "Oh, give h some of the top who wasn't married yet. D, after all, she him he wouldn't have Marthy if he could stack the hay » Her tone knew she ++ would help me remember not to cause I' make so many at 4 time. You know, and I can drive + wouldn't have lasted too I often drove for my father on the thers could eat 4 dry farm. I eve loaf apiece when it was hot like © cut the grain! _ "Well, ye" know how they Sy a should have @ strong Dad stuck back and 4 weak head. _ He said that if you n the porch in @ J across the field for will get rich with thing was wtongworry about what don't see ho wouldn't make 4 goo I said, guess { shouldn't have sal know 'Tom wouldn't trade you the world. No, Tom wouldn't trade me for in the world; he had "Now don't you brother Loren is, an i + like the farm, he V Marthy, he wante