[Let's Do Better Embroidery by Doris Feil]

Let's Do Better Embroidery Doris Feil N the seventeen years that I have been a member of the Church, I have attended many bazaars and similar functions sponsored by the Relief Society and other auxiliaries of the Church and, because embroidery is my own hobby, I have handled and examined countless pieces of needlework: dish towels, pillowcases, napkins, luncheon cloths, children's clothes, aprons, and other items, large and small.
Every needlewoman should realize that all needlework has two sides, the front or "on-display side," and the back, or "you're-looking-atthe-wrong-side," of the article.
Wherever handwork is judged competitively, it is the neat back and not the impressive-looking front of an embroidered article that is always the criterion of its workmanship and the sign of finished skill in the needlewoman.
There is no need for the back of our embroidery to be an untidy hodge-podge of knots, loose ends, long loops of thread going from one leaf or flower or stem to another. It is just as easy to do embroidery that is, to all intents and purposes, reversible.
This takes very little longer, is amazingly easy to do, and is well worth any little extra time and effort. Let us suppose, for instance, that you are embroidering a simple spray of flowers on a napkin. You arc going to use satin stitch for the flowers, outline or stem stitch for the stalk, and a bunch of French knots for the center of the flower. Use a crewel needle for best results.
These are fine and strong, yet they have large, easily threaded eyes.
With two, or at the most three strands of embroidery thread in your needle, you start off on the flower stalk. On the right side of the material, about a third of an inch from the end, take four or five tiny running stitches back to the starting point.
Pull until the end of your thread is barely above the surface of the material—and of course you have no knot in your thread.
Then start embroidering, using regular outline stitch, directly over your little running stitches.
Your embroidery will hide them completely and hold them firm.
When you reach the end of the stalk, draw your thread through to the other side and on the wrong side take half a dozen more tiny running stitches back over the part you have just finished embroidering. Cut off the end.
Both the beginning and the end of your thread are firmly held and completely invisible, without any unsightly knots and untidy ends. For the satin stitch petals of the flower, you do exactly the same thing.
Take half a dozen little running stitches rght on the petal of the flower to the starting point, and then embroider over it until you reach the end of the petal.
Bring your thread through to the wrong  688 side and then pass the thread under the embroidery on the wrong side for about a quarter to a half inch and cut flat with the cloth. Again, no knots, no ends, and your embroidery is as pretty on the wrong side as it is on the right. HE cluster of French knots in the center offers a little different problem, but the solution is just as easy.
Because of the type of stitch you are using, it is not so easy to start with running stitches and work over them. But this problem may be solved by having a big, beautiful knot at the end of the thread and starting it on the right side. Why not? You are going to have a cluster of some dozen or so knots right there, so why not have your starting knot on the right side where it will be lost in the crowd, so to speak, rather than on the wrong side where it will be conspicuous and ugly.
Finish off with another knot, also on the right side, and all you will have to show on the wrong side will be a little cluster of neat, tiny, seed stitches.
Most of the common stitches used in embroidery can be adapted to this neat and effective way of commencing and finishing the work.
With cross-stitch, I do the same thing and start without any knot in my thread but with a few running stitches across the center of the crosses, which the embroidery itself later covers. And in finishing, I take a few invisible stitches underneath the cross-stitching that has already been done.
Much of the perfection of a finished piece lies in the careful se lection of materials as well as in the embroidery itself.
Every woman knows what wonderful dish towels can be made out of used, bleached flour sacks. Aprons, also, can be made out of these readily available materials, either plain or dyed in various shades. But where a lot of time and effort is going into the work, it pays in the long run to spend a little more and buy the best of materials. A lovely little luncheon cloth with a simple design can be made out of dyed flour sacking, and it will take a lot of hard wear for everyday use, but, if you are going to do an intricate design such as a cutwork cloth and napkins, only the best linen should be used and then you will have an exquisite piece that you can use all your life and your children can use and cherish after you are gone.
Cheap rayons, thin cottons, any material that is not colorfast or guaranteed against shrinkage is not worth the buying, nor the time and effort spent in working it. It hardly seems necessary to say that it is important to make sure that the thread, also, is colorfast and able to stand up to hard wear and constant washing. Nowadays, most threads are thus guaranteed, whether they are silk, cotton, rayon or wool. By following these simple rules we can do beautiful embroidery that reflects exquisite neatness on both sides—embroidery work which will wash and wear and last long enough to become heirlooms in the family.
DOS FROM THE FIBLD
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "