NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Hamilton Wilcox, in his "Women Suffrage
Notes in The Star, New York City, has some-
thing to say about "Women in the Presidential
Election," which we give below in his own
words.—ED.
	"The presidential result is now known—it
was not when last Sunday's 'Notes' were
written—and this fact is clear: the women de-
cided the struggle. The skill, the influence,
the money, the labor of two great parties about
balanced each other. By themselves, the men
were almost a tie vote. But the Republican
women's campaign, planned and carried
through by Judith Ellen Foster, turned the
scale, accepted and upheld as it was by Republi-
can committees generally. The eloquence, 
skillful management, dauntless courage and
steadfast devotion of Mrs. Foster, the eloquence
of Anna Dickinson, Marilla Ricker, and fifty
women speakers, the countless clubs of
Republican women, parading, working, elec-
tioneering for their party, brought to its aid a
power and an enthusaism strong enough to
sway the balance. The Democrats were
warned of their danger as soon as the Republi-
can women's campaign began, and were ad-
vised to call the Democratic women to their
aid; but they did not do so quick enough, nor
with the organization and system wherewith
the Republicans did it, and they did not,


therefore, enlist the numbers of women nor
rouse the enthusiasm that the Republican
managers did. They did not move in time to
counteract the force and effectiveness of the
Republican women's organizations. But the
mischief was done before their managers saw
what to do. Next time they must not be
caught napping, and they must take good care
mean time not to let their party be put in an
attitude of opposition to woman's freedom, for
women and their friends hold the balance of
power in every doubtful State.
	"Republicans, too, must not forget; now that
election is over, the debt they owe to their
feminine helpers. Wherever the State consti-
tutions do not expressly forbid, and the Re-
publicans control the Legislatures and Govern-
ors, laws should be at once passed relieving
their sisters from the burdens and wrongs of
disfranchisement. In every Territory where
the Republicans control the Legislature the
same should be done.
	"Republicans should remember that the
Woman Suffrage party are in a position to
punish them if they refuse to do justice to
woman. It was the persistent refusal of Re-
publican Legislatures to relieve women from
disfranchisement and the untruthful statements
of a Republican Attorney General against the
bill for that purpose which drove the suffrage
party's State Convention in 1884—made up
mostly of old Republicans—to reject a motion
to indorse the Republican ticket and vote to
be neutral. That Convention held that, thought
Blaine and Logan's personal friendship toward
woman's liberty was public and unquestioned,
the course of their party in the Legislature
had not entitled it to the support of suffragists.
Had the latter chosen, they could have reversed
the vote of New York and kept Cleveland out
of the White House; but the refusal of Re-
publican Legislatures to do justice to a million
and a half of citizens cost their party the
Presidency. It seems they learned enough by
this defeat to ask the women's aid in this can-
vass. Let us see now whether they have also
learned enough to treat their new allies justly.
	The woman suffrage party, though, are not
to be credited with the result of the election.
As both President Cleveland and General Har-
rison were friendly to woman's freedom, the
suffrage party as a body did not need to favor
one at the expense of the other. Some, as in-
dividuals, favored Cleveland, some favored
Harrison, and others favored one of the other
candidates, all of whom were friendly to suf-
frage. The result was determined by those of 
the suffrage women who followed Mrs. Foster's
lead, and by the mass of new political workers
whom these particular suffragists brought out.
	The women who exerted themselves for the
candidates of smaller parties have done little
good, if any. They have wasted their time,
their strength and their money—enough of
these to have gained splendid success if rightly
used—and have provoked much needless hos-
tility. Those who thought that they could
draw off votes enough from General Harrison
to defeat him by getting Republicans to vote
for a third candidate, have been terribly disap-
pointed. The outcome should teach them
wiser methods."


