LIFE OF HEBER C. KIMBALL.

	The life of this great Apostle, Heber C. Kim-
ball, written by his grandson, Bishop O. F.
Whitney, has been completed and is now before
the public. It is a book of which all the Latter-
day Saints may justly be proud. It is as original
in style as the man whose life it portrays was in
character and expression. Bro. Kimball had a
style of his own, that no one else could imitate
without making himself ridiculous, because in
another person it was unnatural and apparently
"put on," while in Bro. Heber, as he was famil-
iarly called in early days, there was no effort or
affectation of manner or appearance. He was a
man of commanding figure and a magnificent
presence. He possessed in a large degree the
qualities of a leader which were emphatically
manifest on many occasions. In times of dan-
ger he was fearless as a lion, and, as his bio-
grapher says, "probably a braver man never
lived." His enemies knew it and respected him
for his genuine courage quite as much as his
friends.
	The book posesses all the fascination of a
sublime psalm or poem. The style is poetic and
inspirational and one cannot glance through it,
without feeling an intense sympathy with the
writer in his subject. He certainly had a lofty
theme, and he has handled it grandly and grace
fully.
	The book is dedicated thus, by the author:
"To the memory of my Grandfather and to the
great Cause of Truth, for which he lived and died;
and to all who love that Memory and that Cause."
	The volume contains five hundred and twenty
pages in sixty-eight chapters besides an appendix.
There is rather a lengthy preface giving some
general explanations, and the first chapter opens
the subject with, contents; "A Pre-existant
Glimpse—God's Noble and Great Ones—Heber
C. Kimball a Pre-destined Prophet—Opening of
the Last Dispensation—Heber's Birth and Paren-
tage—Early Incidents of His Life—Clouds and
Sunshine."
	Each chapter is similarly summed up, so that it
is easy to find any particular time or event by re-
ference to the table of contents, thus rendering it
comparatively easy to review the work. The
author has spared no pains to make his work
acceptable; the elegance of his style and the
perceptible choice of the best words in the English
language, help to make the book a literary
success.
	Steel engravings of Heber C. Kimball and
Vilate Kimball, Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and
Brigham Young embellish the work. It is printed
in large clear type on a fine quality of paper and
is handsomely bound in leather. It will be a
valuable acquisition to the libraries of the people.
It cannot fail but interest all who read it, and is

[Column 2]

well calculated to stimulate the youth of Zion to
earnest endeavors in the right direction, and to
awaken high and noble aspirations that will lead
them onward to success in difficult undertakings,
and arm them with courage, to cope with trials,
adversity and opposition, with that unflinching
resolution that is in itself a power and strength.
	One of the chapters opens thus: "Preaching
the Gospel and converting sinners unto Christ,
never yet depended for success upon man's learn-
ing or the music of oratory. The unlettered fish-
erman of Galilee, proclaiming in simple words
"Christ Crucified," were far more powerful in
winning souls from error's ways and melting the
hearts of the multitude, than would all the
orators have been. The Herods, Ciceros, or
Demosthenes of Judea, Greece and Rome." This
is indeed a grand truth beautifully told, but there
must be something genuine in the soul of that
man who can without education, without learning
carry convictiou to the hearts of his hearers.
His subject may be an exalted one, but unless he
is capable of entering into it with his whole soul,
his efforts to convince others will be fruitless.
Heber C. Kimball possessed this genuineness in
a very great degree. He felt intensely whatever
he said and whatever he preached, consequently
he made others feel. His biographer has deeply
felt the grandeur of his subject, and has written
with a force and vigor of expression, that stamps
itself perceptibly on every page. The reader
will be in sympathy with the writer and the work
will grow more and more interesting as he reads
on and on, not so much, it may be, for the history
of the man, or the general historical character of
the work, but for that inexpressible quality in
speaking and in writing that touches a sympa-
thetic chord in the individual, and lifts him into a
higher realm of thought where truth sparkles
with a new lustre, and all that is false fades into
insignificance. But we would not for a moment
under-estimate the book as a history; the history
of a great man—a man of God—a pioneer and a
man of advanced thought—a prophet in very
deed as many dally testify.
	The life and character of Vilate Kimball also
form an important part of the book. Her life
was closely interwoven with that of her husband,
and her many superior womanly qualities, so
happily portrayed by the author must call forth
the admiration of all into whose hands the book
will fall. Together hand in hand indissolubly
bound as husband and wife they laid the founda-
tion of a great patriarchal family; for the man is
not without the woman in the Lord, and Heber C.
Kimball, great as he was, could not have attained
to the honors he did had he not been associated
with a woman like Vilate; she was a part of his life,
and strong as he was he leaned upon her almost
as much as she did upon him. She was a stay and
a refuge for him throughout his eventful life, and
it no doubt made him more humble and childlike
in his nature, this devotion to the wife of his
youth. All this is gracefully told by the author
but in every life the unwritten is by far the greater
part. Vilate Kimball's life, as some of her inti-
mate friends knew it, never could be written, it is
above the pen of the most accomplished or in-
genious writer; but it is not our intention to tell
what we know about the people, but to review the
book; therefore, without reference to individuals,
we, can safely say the book reccomends itself, and
when read needs no other endorsement. There
are many thrilling incidents related, stories told
abounding with humor and one who knew Bro.
Heber can almost see in fancy the twinkle of his
piercing black eye, and the merry laugh that
was so contagious whenever indulged in, some-
times to his great annoyance.
	The founding of the British Mission forms one
 of the grand epochs in the Church, and is a
remarkable proof of Bro. Heber's leadership, and
also of his having been called of God. His

[Column 3]

family must certainly be proud of so illustrious a
husband and father, and it is very commendable
in them to have undertaken the publication of his
life. The ability of the author as a writer was
very well established before he undertook this
work, but he has succeeded in making his book
more highly interesting than even his admiring
friends anticipated. The book will live, for truth
never perisheth. The character of the man has
in no instance, so far as we are capable of judg-
ing, been overdrawn. It is not a eulogy, but a
record of this remarkable man worthy to be en-
graven in the hearts of his posterity.


