NOTES AND NEWS.

	The marriage of Miss Rachel G. Foster and
Cyrus Miller Avery is disproof of the theory
that "platform women" are not attractive to
the opposite sex, for Mr. Avery fell in love
with Miss Foster at the Women's International
Council.
	The Twentieth Annual meeting of the
American Woman Suffrage Association was 
held in the Scottish Rite Cathedral, Cincinnati,
O , Nov. 20, 21, 22. The sessions were largely
attended, much interest was manifested, excel-
lent reports were made by the press and the
meeting was successful in every respect. Mrs.
Lucy Stone gave the annual report of the As-
sociation.
	The National Council of Women, of which
Miss Willard was made president at Washing-
ton, D. C., last spring, has for its object to
secure in every leading city and town of the
United States a "Woman's Council" made up
of the presidents of all societies of women,
having a headquarters of its own, with an
office secretary, entering unitedly upon such
lines of work as all the women can agree
upon.
	The Sixteenth Annual Congress of the Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Women was
held in the Church of Our Father, Detroit,
Mich, Nov, 14, 15, 16. Its coming had been
heralded by the Detroit Woman's Club in a
dainty souvenir, which told of the work of the
A. A. W., and of Michigan's Women's Clubs
and philanthropies. The platform on which
the representative women of the Woman's
Century assembled was most fittingly arranged
as a drawing-room, circled by a tier of chrysan-
themums, banked in profusion and topped by a
row of potted palms. The railing of the organ
loft and the background of the pulpit were
hung in silken folds of the tri-color of the
Detroit Woman's Club—white, blue and yellow.
Around the galleries were hung portraits of


men and women identified in sympathy, if not
by membership, with the mission of the Con-
gress. High up overhead was the shibboleth
of the association, worked in letters of ivy,
"Truth, Justice and Honor." Under this,
painted in three panels of white silk, were the
letters "A. A. W."


