EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ANOTHER souvenir of the holidays and the New
Year is a Calender of 1889, fastened together with
rings and a chain to hang it by, and pretty little
ornamental cord and tassels. Outside are two
children among flowers, and the second page
represents the ringing of the bells, fastened to the
wheel of time. Each month has an appropriate
simile in the picture, and last of all a couple of
children swinging in a hammock. The design is
by J. Pauline Sunter, and the work is copyrighted
by Lee & Shepard, of Boston. The Calendar is
for sale at James Dwyer's book store, Main St.,
Salt Lake City. It is well worth purchasing, both
for beauty and utility. It is a delicate little me-
mento for an expression of affection or esteem.
	Two of the daintiest gift books we have ever
seen, are from Lee and Shepard, Boston, Mass.,
and are for Christmas and New Years. The one
for Christmas is entitled, "A Christmas Carol,"
with words from the gifted pen of Dinah Maria
Mulock. The pictures are exquisite, and are
suited to the verse of the poem upon the same
page. Outside the book is a picture repre-
senting a child under a tree filled with fruit, and
birds among the boughs. It is a very pretty de-
sign, and delicately drawn. The New Year's

[Column 2]

book is entitled, "A Friend stands at the Door,"
and the words are also by the late favorite author,
Dinah Maria Mulock. The outside leaf or cover
of the folio has a picture of a child in a bank of 
delicate flowers. This book represents the New
Year in poem and engraving as the other does 
Christmas, and it is impossible to say which is the
most beautiful. There are twelve leaves of heavy
cardboard, the best in quality, gilt-edged and
artistically fastened together with colored satin
ribbon. Among the collection of handsome holi-
day books there are none more suitable for a 
present. Each picture tells a story of itself in its
own beautiful way, and the verses are touching
and musical. The books are for sale at James
Dwyer's book store, Salt Lake City. Every lady
should examine these pretty specimens of art.
	THE marriage of Miss Rachel G. Foster, of
Philadelphia, was solemnized Nov. 8, at the
Spring Garden Unitarian Church, in Philadelphia.
The happy bridegroom is Mr. Cyrus Miller Avery.
The ceremony was performed by Rev. Charles G.
Ames, assisted by Rev. Annie Shaw. The recep-
tion was given at Pittsburgh by the many friends
of Mr. and Mrs. Foster Avery. Afterwards they
were to visit friends at Indianapolis, Louisville,
Chicago and Buffalo before returning to Philadel-
phia. Miss Foster has been an ardent advocate
of woman suffrage from her girlhood, and an
active worker for more than ten years. She was
chosen Corresponding Secretary of the National
Woman Suffrage Association when Mrs. Sara
Andrews Spencer resigned, and has for years
filled that position with ability, good judgment
and remarkable tact. The success of the Interna-
tional Council was largely due to the executive
ability of this young lady, as Miss Anthony very
gracefully acknowledged at the close of the session.
Mr. Avery, it is said, fell in love with her upon the
platform. We have the pleasure of knowing Miss
Foster personally, and have a most sincere ad-
miration for her many excellent qualities. She
understands how to be both just and generous to
all connected with the N. W. S. A., and is not
hampered with the prejudices that sometimes
hinder equality of representation and are barriers
to progress. We extend the most sincere con-
gratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Foster Avery, and
wish them every blessing in their new-found happi-
ness.
	THERE is quite an elaborate display being made
in the shop windows and stores for the holidays.
There never was a time when so much talent and
 ingenuity were displayed in making and selling
various articles for use and ornamentation as at
present. It would seem that everything had been
thought of that the human mind could conceive to
beautify the home and happify the heart. The large
windows of Z. C. M. I. are handsomely and taste-
fully arrayed, making a fine showing of elegant
goods. C. R. Savage's Art Bazar has a fine col-
lection of pictures and other things in their line
on exhibition, and they have a choice selection of
books. The views they have for sale, of their
own special work; of scenes in the Rocky Moun
tains, are a great attraction. Visitors to the city
and tourists make a specialty of views in and
around the Rocky Mountains. Mr. James Dwyer
is not behind any enterprising citizen in his stock
of Christmas presents nor in their qualities, in
excellence or beauty. He carries a very heavy
stock, perhaps the largest of any house of the
kind; at any rate, the variety seems endless, and
there are pretty articles with prices suitable to the
poor as well as the rich. No one need go without
a Christmas present to bestow, if the inclination
tends in that direction. Mr. Dwyer has among
his goods some very odd articles, that would
please the most unreasonable purchaser. Other
stores carrying a heavy amount of goods are mak-
ing the most of their opportunity at this auspicious
season of the year for a fine display, and inviting

[Column 3]

customers. It would not be possible to go into
detail in describing the Christmas goods. An ad-
miring public must see the effort made to please
and to solicit custom.
	Miss M. Glassford, of Chicago is in the city in
the interest of a medical work she is desirous of
circulating in the Territory. She is employing
agents to canvass for the work, both men and
women. The book is entitled, "The Practical
Home Physician." Sub-headings are, "A Popular
Guide for the Household," and "Management of
Disease, Giving the history, cause, means of pre-
vention and symptoms of all diseases of "Men,
Women and Children," and the most approved
methods of treatment with plain instruction for
the care of the sick. Full and accurate directions
for treating "Wounds, Injuries, Poisoning," etc.;
also giving a concise account of the structure and
functions of the human body, hygiene and rules of
health." The book is illustrated with handsome
colored plates.  It is written by four very learned
doctors—Henry M. Lyman, A. M. M. D., Chris-
tian Fenger, A. M. M. D., H. Webster James, A.
M. M. D., W. L. Belfield, A. M. M. D. The book
is certainly a very good one of its kind, and seems
more explicit in detail than many medical books.
It is a book that it would be well for any young
mother to have for reference; in fact such
books are needed in every family. The colored
plates represent the bones, nerves, arteries brain,
explaining each, with reference to the whole.
Another particular feature of the book is the pre-
paration of medicines and the plants used as in-
gredients; there are 16 pages of these plants, with
four on each page, making 64 varieties thus repre-
sented. The book contains nearly 1100 pages, and
is handsomely bound. It is printed in crown
type upon heavy paper. The volume contains
much very valuable information, and cannot fail
to be useful and beneficial in the community. The
names of the plants and all other explanations are
given in plain English, and can consequently be
perfectly understood. No Latin phrases used
It tells you how to prepare nourishing food for the
sick, and how to administer medicines, the quantity
of all kinds named, as well as the properties.


