A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

	Died, in the Fifteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, Utah, Nov
19, 1888, Rebecca Maria, widow of the late N. V
Jones, and daughter of Samuel and Hannah Burton, and

[Column 2]

sister of Bishop R. T. Burton. Deceased was born in
Mercer, Essex Co., Upper Canada, Feb. 16, 1826. She
was baptized into the Church in January, 1838, when her
father's family received the Gospel at that place. Shortly
after the family started for Far West, Mo., but on account
of the expulsion of the Saints from that State, they did not
complete the anticipated journey, but located at Walnut
Grove, Illinois, in 1839.
	In October, 1844, the family went to Nauvoo, and on the
14th of March, 1845, Miss R. M. Burton was married to
Nathaniel V. Jones by Heber C. Kimball. In the spring
of 1846 Bro. and Sister Jones left Nauvoo, arriving in
Council Bluffs July 1, and on the 16th of the same month
her husband enlisted in the Mormon Battalion; at that
time she had a babe four months old. Subsequently Sister
Jones removed to Atchison Co., Mo, remaining there
until her husband's return from California iu August, 1847.
In August, 1849, Bro. and Sister Jones arrived in this city,
journeying with ox teams from the Missouri River; at that
time they had two children. They settled in the Fifteenth
Ward, and have kept the home there ever since.
	Bro. Jones was called away from home on several mis-
sions, and his wife was left with a little family to struggle
with the difficulties incident to the settling in a new country.
She bore her trials during this period of her life with un-
common bravery and fortitude, manifesting those sterling
qualities of character that help one to endure without mur-
muring the shifting changes of fortune in times of adversity
or affliction.
	On Feburary 16th, 1863, the 37th anniversary of her
birth, her husband died, leaving her with a family of little
children, to whom she must henceforth be both father and
mother as far as possible, and Sister Jones has ever since
remained a widow (twenty-six years), and by her untiring
industry and perseverance has raised her family temporally
and trained them in the principles of the Gospel.
She was ever a tender and affectionate mother, entering
into the feelings of her children, their trials or misfortune
with the most intense sympathy. The sad death of her
son, Fred. R. Jones, who was killed in New Mexico, was a
severe nervous shock to her system, and the constant care,
attention and solicitude occasioned by the delicate health
of her daughter, Mrs. Clara J. Young, for sometime previ-
ous to her demise, told heavily upon her both in mind and
body.
	Sister Jones was always faithful to the truth, firm and
unflinching in her integrity to the cause she had espoused so
early in life, and has been an active and efficient worker in the
Relief Society of the ward in which she resided ever since
it was organized in 1855, and for some years past held the
position of First Counselor to the President, Sister Sarah
M. Kimball, who will deeply feel the loss of so wise and
consistent an adviser and helpmate. She was kind and
sympathetic, as well as benevolent in her nature, and de-
lighted in ministering to the wants of the needy, and in
comforting the afflicted and distressed. Her record is
bright with good deeds, and her example noble and pure;
she continued acting in her public duties until a short time
previous to her death, though she was quite feeble in health.
On Sunday, Nov. 11th, she taught her class of young ladies
in the Sabbath School as usual, but that evening was taken
violently ill, with acute pain in her head. She suffered
very greatly until death came to her relief.
	Of Sister Jones it may be truly said, "Blessed are the
dead who die in the Lord." She has gone to join her
companion, the husband of her youth. her children, parents
and friends, Joseph, the Prophet, and the host of Saints
who have passed away.
	There is no need of sorrow or mourning for her, she has
gone to her rest, having "fought the good fight and kept
the faith." May her noble and righteous example be fol-
lowed by her children, that they may attain to the same 
exaltation and inheritance, and meet their mother again,
where there is no more sorrow, pain or parting forever-
more.
	The funeral of Sister Jones was held in the Fifteenth
Ward meeting house, on Thursday, the 21st of November,
and was largely attended. The stand was beautifully
draped in white, and flowing trailing vines aristically
hung among the soft flowing drapery. There were also
many gifts of flowers from loving friends.
	The speakers were, first, Bishop Samuel Woolley, of the
9th Ward, who had accompanied Elder N. V. Jones, hus-
band of the deceased, on his mission many years ago to the
East Indies. The next speaker was Elder Elias Morris,
who had known Sister Jones for many years. Bishop O.
F. Whitney followed Bro. Morris, and then Prest. Angus
M. Cannon and Bishop Pollard.
	All the speakers testified to her faith in the Gospel, her
integrity to the same, her many excellent and lovable

[Column 3]

qualities, her patience and heroism under the most trying
circumstances. Sister Jones selected the hymns she would
like sung at her funeral; one of them was the very appropri-
ate funeral song, "Come, come unto me, all ye Saints who
have died," and another, "There is sweet rest in heaven."
The singing was by the ward choir, and was rendered in
the most tender and touching style, the voices blending in
such melody that it was like heavenly music.
		E. E. W.
	
	Rebecca M. Jones, Counselor in the Fifteenth Ward
branch of the Relief Society, died Nov. 19, and was buried
with Relief Society honors, on Wednesday, 21st inst., from
the Fifteenth Ward Assembly Hall.

