OBITUARIES.

	On Monday, May 28, 1888, occurred one of the most
shocking fatalities that has ever taken place in Heber City,
Wasatch County. Mrs. Elizabeth Watson, wife of Thomas
S. Watson, was killed by a bull. The event was a great
shock to the community. Sister Elizabeth Watson was the
daughter of John and Janet Honeyman. She was born at
Anchtermuchty, Fife, Scotland, Dec. 2, 1835, and was
married to Thomas Watson at Kinross County. Scotland
on the 30th of March, 1863; in 1869 they emigrated to
America; leaving Glasgow on the 7th day of April of that
year, they stopped in Ohio about four months, and then
came on to Utah, arriving at Heber on the 24th day of
September, where they have resided ever since. Sister
Watson, was the mother of twelve children, eleven boys and
one girl, eight of whom have gone before her. Sister
Watson was a faithful member of the Relief Society, and
secretary of the Wheat Fund. She died in full faith of the
Gospel.
	Whereas, Providence has seen fit to call from our midst
our much esteemed sister and co-laborer in the cause of
truth to finish the labor so nobly begun on earth in a higher
sphere, we deeply sympathize with the bereaved husband
and four sons, and pray God to bless and comfort them in
the great loss they have sustained.
		MARGARET MUIR,
			President,
		ELLEN LEE,
		SARAH SMITH,
			Committee.

	Sister Ann Walmsley passed away from this life Nov. 16,
1888, at Preston, Idaho, having sustained injuries by falling
from a wagon, Aug. 23rd, 1886, since which time she has
been a great sufferer until a short time before her death
when she calmly fell asleep; and thus passed away with a
smile on her face. She was born in Lancashire, England,
Aug. 24, 1806, baptized July 30, 1837. She is said to be
the first woman baptized into the Church in England, Prest.
Heber C. Kimball officiating at the ceremony, In 1840
Sister Walmsley arrived in Nauvoo with her husband,
where she knew and associated with the Prophet and his
brother, Hyrum, and their families. Two years after she
with her husband, Bro. Thomas Walmsley, moved to a
place called, "Shock of Corn." twenty-five miles from 
Nauvoo, where he died and was buried in the woods.
Sister Walmsley then returned to Nauvoo in poor health,
with five sick children, having previously buried two. In
1849 she traveled to Salt Lake City, where she lived for
many years, afterwards moving to Bear Lake Valley, where
she has since resided. Sister Walmsley was ever ready to
bear her testimony to the truth of this work, and that
Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, having seen a great
many of his prophecies fulfilled. March 10, 1888 she had a
written request made out concerning her funeral, and
whom the speakers should be, wishing Bishop Wm. Hulme
to drive the team that bore her remains to their final rest-
ing place, he being second to none in her affections, having
lived neighbor to him for many years. All was done as she
wished. Sister Walmsley was the mother of ten children,
forty-six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren; four
of her children, thirty of her grandchildren, and six of her
great-grandchildren were in attendance at her funeral.
		E. C. PIGGOTT.
	Bloomington, Idaho, Nov. 25, 1888.


[Column 1]

