UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the second conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion, which
convened in the Ashley meeting house, Sept.
2nd, 1888. Prest. Sarah Pope presiding. Sing-
ing. "Sweet is the work." Prayer by A. H.
Bartlett. Singing, "My God, the spring of all
my joys." Minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett said, "I feel it a duty
to arise when called upon to speak to my sis-
ters; I desire an interest in the prayers of all
present." Read a portion of a sermon preached
by Brigham Young eleven years ago, in Ogden,
at a Relief Society meeting, and printed in the
EXPONENT. It was a very appropriate piece
for the occasion, and all listened with intense
interest. Made a few remarks on the same.
Said how necessary it was for us to ask the
Lord to give us wisdom, that we may under-
stand the principles of the Gospel; mothers
should teach the first principles of the Gospel to
their children; the principles of the Gospel are
just the same to-day as they were in the rise
of the Church. Asked the blessing of the
Lord to rest upon all His Church in the name
of Jesus. Amen.
	The Reports from the different branches of
the Relief Society were read.
	Prest. Sarah Pope, "I am pleased to be with
my sisters here to-day, it does me good to see
everybody looking so comfortable and so well
clothed. Thirty years ago the people in Utah
did not have as much as they have to-day; if
we had a homemade dress on we were just as
happy and thankful as we are to-day, and per-
haps more so, because it was harder to get it;
to-day there is plenty of everything in our
midst, but do we appreciate these blessings? If
not we should. Thirty years ago a lady could
walk the streets of Salt Lake City in the night
if it was necessary, and there was no one on
the streets to say anything to her. Is that the
case to-day?" No, it is not. Our good govern-
ment thought they would send men here to
mend the morals of the people; but instead of
that they introduced evil practices to lead away
our children.	*	*	I ask the
Lord to bless us all, is my prayer in the name
of Jesus. "Amen."
	Meeting then adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing,
"I saw a mighty angel fly." Benediction by
Prest. Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session: Prest. Sarah Pope presid-
ing. Singing, "Awake, ye Saints of God,
awake." Prayer by I. J. Clark. Singing,
"Afflicted Saints to Christ draw near." The
names of all the different presidents and their
counselors were read and sustained.

[column 3]

	Sister Caroline Stringam was called upon
to address the congregation for a short time.
Thought the brethren should feel interested in
our meetings, and try to help the sisters to get
to meeting, inasmuch as it is a duty the sisters
have to attend to; said parents should attend
Sunday School and Primary; also spoke of in-
structions she had heard Sister E. R. Snow
Smith give the sisters in times that were past.
	Sister Abagail Oaks made a few remarks on
passages that she had been reading in the Book
of Mormon, that were very interesting, and
spoke of what the Lord had in store for the
faithful.
	Coun. Elizabeth Mitchel gave the sisters
some good instruction concerning the wife's
care of the husband's earnings, and making
the best of everything.
	Prest. S. R. Bennion said, "I am pleased for
the opportunity I have of meeting with the
sisters to-day. We have had some good instruc-
tion from the sisters. I think the sisters of the
Relief Society have a great mission to perform,
and the young ladies should shun the company
of a young man who is in the habit of drink-
ing intoxicating drinks, or making light of the
principles of the Gospel; young ladies might
be able to do much good in this way; if a
young man thinks a young lady shuns him on
account of these things, he may try to be bet-
ter. May the Lord bless all the branches of
the Society in the Church, and enable them to
do right, is my prayer. Amen."
	Coun. R. S. Collett said he was pleased to
meet with the sisters, and to see the good spirit
that was made manifest by those that spoke,
and also the love that existed in families, and
the sorrow in parting, and the joy in meeting
again, and many more things that we have not
room for here; then asked the Lord to bless His
people.
	Prest. Sarah Pope made a few closing re-
marks, and reminded the sisters of our light
harvest in some parts of the valley, and that
we as wives and mothers should help our hus-
bands to take care of the wheat for bread, for
 it is better to go short of other things than
bread.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Sunday in
March, 1889. Singing. Benediction by
Philip Stringam.
		ADA LONGHURST, Secretary.


