CHRISTMAS HYMN.

This earth had not in orbit rolled,
Or present form received—
When in grand council holy Gods
A glorious plan conceived.
And all the "Morning Stars" did shout
An anthem, fraught with praise,
Yea, prophesied and sang with joy
Of these the latter days.

The plan conceived, tho' man should sin,
And through transgression fall;
Yea, sin and darkness cover earth
As with a sable pall.
That Jesus Christ on earth should come
With  healing in His wings,
And conquer death, hell and the grave,
And reign as King of kings.

This glorious plan came from the Head—
Father of light and love—
'Twas sanctioned by the heavenly host,
Who dwelt with Him above,
That Christ should come, dwell in the flesh
And be a sacrifice;
That countless millions of the dead—and
Living might rejoice.

"While shepherds watched their flocks by night,
O'erspread on Judean plains,
The angels of the Lord appeared,
Chanting celestial strains;
Such heavenly melodies burst forth,
Seraphic strains arise,
Echoing grand from world to world,
Along the star-lit skies.

Peace be on earth, goodwill to man,
The shining seraphs sang,
Celestial choirs caught up the strain,
While heavenly music rang;
Behold, the Star of Bethlehem !
See where its halo plays;
Your King and Savior of this world
There in a manger lays.

The foxes had their place of rest,
The birds securely slept,
'Mid leafy boughs, when night had come,
While Jesus oftimes wept,
Despised, rejected, sick and faint,
Athirst and lacking bread
An outcast and a wanderer,
Not where to lay His head.

He preached the Gospel, healed the sick,
Gave sight unto the blind,
And fed the hungry multitude,
And sought to bless mankind.
Great drops of blood oozed from His pores,
in agony He wept,
And prayed, "Thy will be done, not mine,"
While His disciples slept.

The Jews, they smote and spat on Him,
And spilled His precious blood;
They nailed Him to the shameful cross, 
Yea, crucified their God.
He died, but soon He rose again
With victory o'er the tomb,
He loosed their hands, the captives freed,
And brake the prison gloom.
	
Ring out, glad bells, your sweetest chimes!
Ring out the glad refrain!
Peace be on earth, good will to man,
Ring out, ring out again!
Peal forth, sweet bells, in midnight hour,
Good will, good will to man!
Hosannah to the "King of kings,"
Amen, amen, amen.
	C. L. W.


[Column 1]
ABOUT CENTRAL AMERICA AND
MEXICO.
	At the Young Men's Conference held in the
Tabernacle at Ogden City Nov. 11, Apostle
Moses Thatcher delivered a very able and elo-
quent address touching upon the ancient inhabi-
tants of this continent, the ruins of their cities
and many other things relating to the same
subject.  The discourse is published in full in
The Standard of Nov. 13, and as we have
perused it with great satisfaction we have de-
cided to republish parts of it for the readers of
the EXPONENT, feeling confident that they will
find it highly interesting and instructive; it
also corroborates the testimony of the Book of
Mormon, which is a matter for the serious
consideration of the youth of Zion. After
introducing his subject in the most graceful
manner Apostle Thatcher said:
	"In the Valley of Mexico are located the ex-
tensive ruins of an ancient city known to
scientific writers and explorers as the City of 
the Gods. Its circumference as recently traced
is shown to have been 27 miles. In the midst
of where this ancient city once stood is found
what is known as the pyramid of the moon.
The larger pyramid covers an area equal to
twelve acres and when perfect was 280 feet
high. The lesser covers an area of about
eight acres and is some sixty-five or eighty
feet less in height. These vast structures were
constructed by human hands and the massive
stones are as true and as perfectly laid to the
line as any building we have any knowledge
of. These large pyramids are surrounded by
myriads of other smaller structures, which
doubtless have reference to the starry firma-
ment. This people undoubtedly had a very
extensive knowledge of astronomy. They 
originally built with earth and bound the
walls together with solid layers of cement
from eight to twelve inches in thickness. The
walls are evenly sloped down on the four sides,
and in their original complete form are cov-
ered with porphyretic rock over which a heavy
coat of cement is plastered, so that the noon-
day sun, as on the pyramids of Egypt, strikes
on the four sides of the building.
	These buildings have not been extensively
explored throughout the interior, but suffi-
ciently so to discover interior rooms, beauti-
fully painted, decorated and frescoed, the
work remaining as perfect and preserved as if
but modern works of art.
	When the Aztecs came from the north they
found this city and these pyramids in ruins.
They found also certain traditions of an ex-
tinct people which caused them to make a re-
cord that the people who built these magnifi-
cant edifices were a white race and not of a
dark skin as were the Aztecs. Excavations
demonstrated this record to be true, for in
opening the graves of this enlightened people 
the discovery was made that they were a light-
haired race. Extending from the pyramid of
the sun to the pyramid of the moon, is still to
be seen a gigantic causeway of cement. It re-
mains in such a perfect condition that it can
easily be traced without making any other ex-
cavations than those already made by the
winds and the storms.  The smaller pyramid
is encircled by rows of seats on two sides fac-
ing this causeway where, doubtless, on occasions
of great import and weight to the nation, sat
thousands of people.
	There is a book preserved of the writings of

[Column 2]
this people, describing a band that came from
across the sea at the confounding of the lan-
guages at the Tower of Babel.  It speaks of a
people that traveled through the wilderness
for years. They gathered with them a great
many seeds as well as the honey-bee. The
leader of this little band of twenty-two in-
dividuals found favor in the sight of God.
When the languages were confounded he
prayed to God that he might retain the lan-
guage of his fathers. His pleadings were
heard and granted, and encouraged by this
recognition of the Lord, he asked that he pre-
serve the language of his brother as well as
those who accompanied him. This prayer was
also granted. These writings also give further
details of their travels; how when they reached
the mighty waters they constructed eight barges
or boats and crossed the sea; how they increased
in wealth and population after they had landed
on this continent; how, as time passed on, strife
began, wickedness increased, righteousness
ceased, battles were fought and they became an
extinct people. The same writings also refer
to the re-peopling of this continent and give a
very similar account of it to that given by the
young brother this morning.
	When but a youth of fifteen years I was
met by the proposition that the Book of Mor-
mon was not true, as that book spoke of animals
which were not found on this continent when
Columbus discovered America; animals which
swere such a strange sight to the natives that
on the advent of Cortez and his army of five-
hundred men, carrying with them a number of
horses, the Aztecs imagined the men and horses
to be one being, when mounted, and that on 
this account many battles were won.  To this
proposition I could then only answer, "I be-
lieve the Book of Mormon to be true," but I 
could not tell why. But when a great French
explorer, while exhuming at a city sixty miles
from Mexico, discovered a large number of
animal bones, which were submitted to the
great scientific school at Mexico, the learned
savants pronounced them to be the bones of
cattle and horses. Then this explorer ex-
claimed, "If the learned men of Washington
and the wise savants of France shall agree
with the savants of Mexico, I shall have
opened up a branch of natural history and
science that will be a wonder to the world."
And it proved to be true. The learned men
agreed upon the decision of the Mexican sa-
vants. Thus we have scientific researchers, and
one by one they bear testimony, without a
knowledge of the contents of the Book of
Mormon by the discoverers, of the divinity of
this ancient history. We have a knowledge
through Joseph Smith's translation of the 
Book of Mormon, of the wars which devasta-
ted the country; of the retreat of the Nephites
in a northerly direction, step by step. Recent
scientific researches demonstrate this line of
retreat to have been truly described. The
signal stations of this retreating people can be
traced through Central America, the heart of 
Mexico, crossing the Mississippi River, thence
on across the Red River and up through Ohio,
until the people made their weary march to the
hill Cumorah, in New York, where 230,000
brave souls drew their last breath of life in
one day.
	Many of the fortifications on this line of
retreat are still preserved and show by their
choice of location as well as manner of con-
struction that the people who built them were


in dire distress.  We may read in these signs
that are left us, how this undaunted people
erected fortifications for the protection of their
families as they retreated, contending every
inch of ground, until the last battle-field was
reached.
	There are not many evidences left in the
Territory of Utah of this high, ancient civil-
ization, but that the Aztecs, who were a dark
race, came from the North and passed through
Utah and Arizona there is no doubt.  Through-
out the latter territory there are ruins of vast
cities and extensive canals stretching out for
miles and miles.  At Mesa, there is at present
a large ancient canal, constructed hundreds of
years ago, a great portion of which is even
now used by our people in the irrigation of
their lands.  There is no doubt that the whole
Salt River country at one time contained
a large and wealthy population.
	In the Rio Casa Grande, in Chihuahua,
more extended traces of a most sorely distressed
people are visible.  On every high point,
where the sun's rays could shed their warmth,
and where a single yard of land, protected
from the Pacific showers, could be used for
cultivation, human hands constructed stone
walls to hold in position enough soil from
which to raise a little food for a scanty sub-
sistance.  In the gorges below, villages, ham-
lets and tents were found, on the peaks above,
the signal stations, or the grave of the poor
sentinel who died at his post.  In the valleys
were the larger towns, but wherever a human
foot could find a resting place the ground has
been utilized.
	On either side of the Rio Verde can be
found numerous caves containing many rooms
of ancient construction.  They also are built
as true to the line and plumb, and as well, yes,
better plastered than our houses, for they are
plastered with cement.  I counted seventeen
rooms in one of these caves.  On the walls are
writings in ancient characters, inscriptions
that would tell a wonderful story of a dis-
tressed, suffering, retreating people.  Some day
a prophet and a revelator may arise among
the Latter-day Saints who in the Lord's own
time may read them and make them known to
us.
	These caves as a rule terminate at the end
of a small valley while on either side rise per-
pendicular walls of stone hundreds of feet in 
height.  Think of the distress of that people!
Their caves were solidly walled up in front
with but a small opening, just large enough
for the passage of a human being, and the
portholes through which they shot their arrows
or other missiles.  The opening of these caves
commanded a full view of the valley on either
side and had flanked fortifications where the
men fought on the outside while their wives
 and children received protection from within.
When forced to retreat the small opening was
walled up while they lived on the provisions
they had stored up.  They had large tanks in
these caves, those which were elevated proba-
bly being used for the provisions, while those
in the bottom of the caves were used for water.
One of these large tanks still remains.  Here
you can find the cobs which held their corn;
the broken mills on which their corn was
ground.  By excavating a few feet, removing
the debris which has accumulated during cen-
turies, you may pull out strings of ocean beads
which crumble in your hands and vanish leav-
ing you but the string.  How many years have
passed since these threads were spun and these
beads strung is not for me to say.  But this
much is certain, those who built, and toiled, and
labored in these days were a white race.  When
we employed a surveyor to lay out a canal
near the spot where a number of our people
had taken refuge, he tried for several days
without success and finally located it in the
channel of an old canal.  Surrounding this

[Column 2]
spot there was not a single foot of land but
what had been cultivated centuries before.  I
have touched briefly on these matters to show
how God can build up a great nation to-day
and tear it down to-morrow.  The Book of 
Mormon plainly declares that no kingly gov-
ernment shall prosper upon this land.  This is
the land of Joseph; this is the fruitful bough;
this is the land seen in vision and described as
a land flowing with milk and honey.  God in-
tended this people to be a free people, to be in-
telligent, to exercise their own agency and to
delight in righteousness.  It is a pleasure to
read of the blessings decreed by God on all
the people inhabiting North and South 
America.  But it is with deep sorrow that I
see this great nation, of which Columbus was a
forerunner, and to whom the Lamanites gave
way as the dew before the morning sun, is be-
coming corrupt.  It is with great misgivings that
I see the nation dwindling from the glorious
principles of the law of God, whereas, if the
people would live righteously, it would become
and remain the most powerful nation on earth.
But if they will not heed God's commands,
but practice all manner of wickedness and
corruption the nation will not stand.  Look at
Rome!  How she ground the nations—how
she ruled them at her beck and call!  Yet
she fell prey at the feet of barbarians in a
few years.  This was because she lost her in-
tegrity, her union, and her strength through
her corruption, and still this nation was the
most powerful on earth when her sons were
pure and devoted to their country.
	We now have before us, in brief, the history
of the people that lived upon this continent,
not only in the Book of Mormon, but in all
the ruins of their work; it cannot be disputed,
and God knows, as we ought to know by these
evidences, that an intelligent people once lived
here.  The great highways and stupendous
aqueducts found in Central America and built
by this people as far surpass the engineering
skill displayed in the building of the Union
Pacific and the Central Pacific as you can im-
agine.  Their mines were well developed.  I
have seen beautiful copper needles, copper
bells and a thousand works of art which have
laid buried for ages.
	This was not the people that believed in
human sacrifices. It was the people that came
after them who would at the end of a cycle of
fifty years turn out at midnight, find a willing
victim, carry him to the highest eminence
where they had their altars raised, stretched
him on this altar with bared back and chest,
strike the knife to his breast, tear out the yet
palpitating heart, and then thrust sticks into the
gaping wound and rub them together to cause
fire.  This race was the people that believed
that at the close of such sacrifices the smiles
of their god would rest upon them for another
cycle of fifty years; it was not the people that
built the pyramids, the temples and the high-
ways, and that brought up the cultivation of
the ground to such perfection.
	Could we but have the writings of this peo-
ple!  Could we but have the cords of books
and records burned by the Catholic priests, how
much we would know of this people, if those
writings were interpreted.  But they believed
it necessary to wipe out all traces of ancient
tradition and all evidences upon which rested
the faith of the Indians, in order to lead them
to the belief of another God.  Yet when these
priests, with great reverence opened the Bible
and began to teach the Indian, he would say,
"Why we have heard these things before; we
have them in our holy book."  "Where is
this book?"  The priests would ask.  The 
Indian would say, "It is buried in the earth,
yours is but a copy of ours."
	This book, according to tradition, teaches
that at one time a white being dwelt in their
midst who taught them to open their mines

[Column 3]
and cultivate the ground.  He left them, but
promised that he would return and rule over
them as king.  It was this tradition that filled
Montezuma with fear and supersition lest the
prophecy was about to be fulfilled, and which
enabled Cortez and his five hundred men to do
the work they did.  Montezuma had himself
subjugated thirty-two countries surrounding
Mexico.  He and his followers were as courag-
eous as lions.  He had millions of people
ready to do his bidding.  How could so few
white men enter into the heart of such a coun-
try and conquer it?  It was the fear which
this tradition had brought upon them that
caused Montezuma and his people to waste
away before the Spaniards.  The people had
slain the prophets and the revelators and must
receive in turn that which they had dealt out.
	Yet this is a bright people.  I saw in the
City of Mexico an Indian studying French,
German and English at the same time, besides
teaching a school four hours a day.  And yet
by his side was as bright an American youth
as is commonly found, struggling hard to mas-
ter one language alone.  The Mexican orator
whose name has become famous, was possessed
of such an eloquence in picturing the victory
of the Republic in the war of the Revolution
that the Secretary of State fell upon his neck
and surrendered the homage due to this man.
And yet he was a pure Aztec.
	Mexico is a progressive nation.  We call her
semi-barbarous, but I look to see the time
when the Mexican people will be as bright and
intelligent as they now are kind, affectionate,
and hospitable.  The Mexican people must not
be judged by the elements on the border, for
there, as is generally the case, congregate the 
scum of both nations."
	Following the remarks quoted, Apostle
Thatcher reviewed briefly the history of the
people from the time the Angel Moroni guided
Joseph Smith to the hill Cumorah up to the
present, bearing a strong testimony of the
truth, and exhorting the congregation to
humility, and to cultivate a spirit of forgive-
ness toward all men; he said: "I know that
God demands a forgiving spirit, charity, and
humility.  I know that this people will come
off victorious.	*	*	Live your re-
ligion; be generous and kind.  Let the
teachers hunt up the destitute and poor, no
matter of what color or creed.  Give, and []
shall return unto you."


