MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG:
	DEAR SISTER:—I should have addressed you
ere this, but having delayed until your return, I
now proceed to give you a short report of my
labors in the Arizona settlements.
	In July, 1879, I received my appointment, and
was set part under the hands of Apostle Erastus
Snow to labor in the Eastern Arizona Stake, where
I visited, assisting in the organization of the Relief
Society, continuing to visit and hold meetings
until Oct., 1882, when I came over to Graham Co.,
which, at that time, belonged to Eastern Arizona
Stake, visiting the Saints in the Gila Valley; here
we find one of the most productive, fertile valleys
that the Mormon people have ever had the privi-
lege of colonizing, and I feel it a duty that I owe
to those who are not acquainted with the facts, to
correct the misrepresentations that have gone
abroad, that this is one of the most sickly coun-
tries inhabited by the Latter-day Saints; here in
the Pima Ward, where I reside, in one block of
the school there is over one hundred and fifty
scholars enrolled, and if there is a child sick with
chills or any other disease, I am not informed
of it. 
	The St. Joseph Stake was organized in 1883,
when I was appointed to labor in the great Stake
named in honor of the martyred Prophet, so stated
by Joseph F. Smith in a letter to my husband. He
said the Presidency sat in council and gave it that
name; said it was a very important Stake, includ-
ing three nationalities. The work has truly com-
menced among the house of Jacob, although there


is a lethargy among the people; we can see the
hand of God in colonizing this land, in fulfillment
of the saying of the great latter-day prophet.
	Apostle Thatcher said: "Brethren and sisters
many of you wonder why you are here, you have
left your beautiful homes surrounded with fruits
and flowers, let me tell you. God called you, He
wants you here. This was a great help to me to
labor in the uttermost part of the vineyard where
I can do some good.
	We have ten Branches of the Relief Society
in this Stake and some living active Saints among
the sisters; we hold our monthly meetings regu-
larly and take into consideration the nursing and
care of the sick, although there is not an Ac-
coucher with a diploma, in all the land there has
not been a single case lost in confinement, except
one and that was premature. I once heard
Prest. Young say he could organize two colonies
with the same climate and give one colony two
physicians the other none; leave them ten years
and the one without a doctor would outnumber
the other; so you see we have the privilege of
developing our faith."
	Prest. Layton has given us that encouragement
that is necessary for the advancement and pro-
gress of the Society, in fact, all of the organiza-
tion receives his attention. We have had no fines
nor imprisonments in this stake, which is attribu-
ted to his wise management and the mercy of
God in giving us a Governor that had soul and
brain enough to veto that unconstutitional and de-
basing test oath that was a disgrace to our Gov-
ernment, and painful to the heart of every patrio-
tic soul. What must be the feelings of the
framers of the constitution to look down and see
and hear a legal heir to that freedom they so
bravely won, receiving that detestable oath?
Ministering angels that bear messages to the
eternal worlds, stand recoiled and abashed with
horror at the sight.
		W. EAST.
	Pima, Graham Co. Arizona; Oct. 20, 1888.


