SANTA CRUZ AND THE BIG TREES.

	After visiting Monterey, the next place of im-
portance that is likely to attract visitors is Santa
Cruz, a very old Spanish town, rambling and
picturesque, and one might almost fancy it was an
ancient city in the old world, so foreign and un-
American does everything appear. In the sum
mer time it is a favorite pleasure and bathing
resort, and as it has miles upon miles of sea beach,
where carriages may drive in full view of the
ocean, it is not strange that pleasure-seekers
should flock thither in the season thereof. When
we visited it, however, it was not under such
favorable circumstances; the weather was chilly
and damp, and the leaden November sky was not
calculated to beautify the quaint old place, that
might have looked charming in the golden sun-
shine of October. However, we made the most
of the time after breakfasting at the hotel, for we
had left the Del Monte without anything to eat;
took a carriage and drove through the town, and
thence to the beach, which was by far the most
interesting. The waves were billowy, and the
ocean wild, but it was more grand than in a calm,
and the effect upon the imagination was indescrib-
able. All that the poets have ever written, all the
bards have ever sung, all the eloquence of human
language fails, when compared to the reality itself,
when one comes into harmony with the voices of
many waters. But one cannot linger long even by
the seashore, if the time is limited, and ours was,
for we must do a certain amount of sight seeing
in a given time, so we drove on to the “Shell
Store,” where we alighted and examined the wares,
curiosities of various kinds from the sea, an end-
less variety of shells, corals, sea-weed, etc. One
might linger there for days, and marvel at the
works of nature even in the great deep, but we
only made a very few purchases and withdrew.
We had a fine view of the sea for many miles, in
fact until we reached the woods, and woods, in-
deed, it was—a forest of pines. The road for
some distance skirted a steep hill, where the tops
of the tall trees from the ravine below were almost
even with the road, and we were just as it were on
the edge of a bank, where, if we made any false 
move in driving, we would have been precipitated
hundreds of feet below.
	As we proceeded the country became more even
and the trees were so tall we seemed to look up
in vain to discern their towering height. At
length, after winding round and round these giants
of the forest, we reached what is known as the
“Big Trees,” and there we halted. 
	After making some inquiries about the train, we
concluded to dismiss the carriage, and wait there
for the train, though there is really nothing to see
except the mammoth trees. Some of the largest
trees have been named for the great Generals in 
the army; one of the very largest is called Gen.
Sherman, another Gen. Grant, and so on; two or 
three of them had been hollowed out by burning, 
and were like a room inside. Hundreds of cards
of people from all parts of the world were pinned
up inside these hollow trees. The height seemed
to us really more surprising than the circumfer-
ence. We wandered around through this grove
of big pines, our thoughts occupied not only with


what we could see, but with the history of the
past, what race of people had wandered through
these dense forests, and what was their condition
and customs, and their habits? Why was this
spot historical? Was there not a history more in-
teresting, if it were known, than just these wonder-
ful trees? But one can only conjecture and query
concerning past events, of which there is no
record, there is no one to answer the inquiries;
no Rip Van Winkle who has been sleep-
ing for centuries to come forth and en-
lighten us, though the place was weird
enough for hobgoblins and wizards; one
could almost fancy there would be something 
supernatural, but we saw nothing except a moun-
tain, stretched out dead that had been killed and
left upon the ground. While waiting here for the
train we had some conversation about South
America and other lands that lie beyond the sea
with a Dutch professor from Ghent in Belgium.
Adolph De Cueleneer, a professor of Art and An-
tiquites. He was quite entertaining, and was
very learned and had traveled extensively. He 
carried away several pieces of the wood from
these enormous trees, and some specimens of
plants. At length the narrow gauge train drew
up and we went aboard gladly for we were very
tired. The road lay along a very fine part of
the country; scenery charming, some autumnal
tints; though not the variety one finds here or in 
places where there are frosts to tone and color
them. The pepper trees are very handsome
indeed, graceful in shape and beautiful in con-
trast of color, the green leaves and bright red
berries. Pretty little towns and villages are 
scattered all along the way. The train passes 
through San Jose and Santa Clara, and we get a 
glimpse of the famous Lick Observatory as we
are leaving Santa Clara. It resembles in the dis-
tance a large square block of white granite up
among the clouds like a vast temple. We also
see the State  Insane Asylum, the third in Cali-
fornia it is near Agnews Station; it is an immense
brick structure, modern in style of architecture,
Nearing San Francisco we passed Riverside
Hotel, a summer resort well patronized.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball spent several weeks
there last summer visiting her brother, the pro-
prietor, Mr. Farley Granger well known to many
of our people. At Alameda we take the Steamer
for San Francisco, and the ride by moonlight with
the lights of a great city in view is lovely be-
yond description.


