CHRISTMAS

	Ah, me! It is Christmas time, merry and 
joyous. What sweet recollections are recalled 
to mind on this happy occasion. Old folks
and young join in gay pastimes, and it is not
only a reason of rejoicing, but of refreshing,
bodily and mentally. For a few hours, at least,
peace is the sentiment of all honest hearts, and
harshness and ingratitude are banished. The 
very name suggests innocence, purity and love;
for is it not the embodiment and name of the
dear Savior, the blessed Redeemer, who came
with the gladdest message that was ever brought
to human hearts; the tidings of salvation? The 
most precious gift vouchsafed to man upon
earth; and in imitation of His glorious example,
mankind bestow the most fitting gift upon one
another in remembrance of the blessed day,
when unto the holy virgin a son was born,
whose name was Emmanuel. Yes, He who
said, "Love one another." On this day all
who desire to be his followers should put away
all ill-feeling, and try to forgive and forget
and to do some good deed, as well as bestow

(Column 2)
costly gifts on those who are dear to them by
the ties of kindred or friendship. The poor
whom Jesus loved and sought to please are re-
membered on this day, more bounteously, per-
haps, than on any other day in all the year. 
Blessed day! that brings gladness to so many 
lonely hearts! Blessed Savior! whose advent 
upon earth we celebrate so joyfully. What
better tribute could we pay to him who loved
the poor, the meek and the lowly ones, than to
minister to these His children, and share with
them the blessings kind heaven has boun-
tifully vouchsafed; thus fulfilling His in-
junction, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto 
one of these ye have done it unto me." And
in blessing we have the promise of being
blessed in return. He who pours out abun-
dantly upon the poor and unfortunate, will find
his heart lighter, and in the hour of trial or of
sorrow, will recall with satisfaction the good
deeds which are recorded in his favor by the 
angels above, and which may perchance insure 
him a safer passage into the realms of happi-
ness. There is no pleasure so intense as that of
bestowing happiness upon others. And on
this day when all join in calling down blessings
upon each other, surely the angels shout and 
sing for joy over those who are walking in
Jesus' footsteps, treading the paths which will
lead where He has gone, to prepare a place for
those who love Him and keep His command-
ments.
	This is an exalting theme, and an inexhaus-
tible one; but lest I weary my readers by pur-
suing a monotonous strain, let us go back to 
childhood or wonder-land, where we all have 
been "once upon a time," and ramble a little 
over enchanted ground, where erst the fairies
sported, and Santa Claus held unbounded do-
minion at this season of the year. Who does
not remember Santa Claus? Dear old fellow;
children almost worship him, and are always 
on their good behavior when this antique genii
is expected. They are told the most extrava-
gant tales, and in many instances, the impres-
sions thus made, are so strong and lasting, that
in maturer years, one can shut his eyes and
imagine dear old St. Nicholas, driving his rein-
deers, eight in hand, muffled in furs and covered
with bells, that always peal merrily, merrily,
gliding over the house tops, dropping the bon 
bons and goodies down the chimneys, and skim-
ming along as easily as though he rode on the
fleecy white clouds. Who is there who cannot 
remember popping out of bed in the gray morn-
ing, with a trailing night robe on, to see what 
Santa Claus had left in the stocking by the 
chimney corner, the dear little barefeet,
blessed footprints "on the sands of time!" 
Without entering upon any dissertation upon
the merits or demerits of such fanciful tradi-
tions, let us take a cursory view of the Christ-
mas of to-day. This is a most extraordinary
age, and the people have made great discoveries 
in all the various departments of the arts and 
sciences. The spirit of invention is rife, and
there is nothing seemingly that can be made,
that has not been attempted in the way of 
utility or ornament. Consequently, there are
articles of every description and quality, suited
to the individual or circumstances: and all may 
be gratified in the selection of appropriate gifts.
	But after all is there not a certain nice dis-
crimination to be observed in choosing or
adapting a gift to the recipient, and is there
not a means of bestowal which brightens the
poorest present, making it exceed in value the 
costliest given in an ostentatious manner. There 
is certainly a great deal yet to be learned about 
the method of giving.
	The poor who possess innate refinement of
character, or perhaps may have seen better
days, may be so wounded by the manner in
which the Christmas dinner is given or the 
simple offering made to them, that a morsel of 
bread and water would be preferable. And 
even friends are oftimes careless how the gift is
conveyed, and think perchance it matters little.
It would be sad indeed if this practice has be-
come so common that one takes no thought of
the manner of it, but gives simply that it may
be said of him, he gave liberally or to be in
the fashion. True love, esteem or friendship, a 
desire to actually bless others should be the 
motive, and let us be charitable enough to
think that in most instances it is so; though
the hurry and bustle of this workday world 
make us now and then forget how beautiful it 
is to do all things gracefully.
	I know it is sometimes remarked by very
practical, matter of fact people, that it is all
nonsense to decorate and take such pains to 
gather evergreens, flowers and holly berries
for Christmas and holidays, but I beg leave to
differ, and to declare that these inanimate
things possess in a great degree the power of 
imparting efficacy to thought and feeling and
appeal strongly to the heart which is the high-
est embodiment of sensibility or approximates
nearest to the soul. Therefore I would say do
not shut out all the beautiful, and live within
four bare walls, but adorn your homes with 
those things which will suggest pleasant themes
for conversation, which will remind you of in-
nocence, and draw your thoughts towards that 
paradise you may attain, through diligence in 
good works where all is beauty and glory and 
brightness supernal.
	Yes, the mistletoe and holly are specially 
dear to every English heart, and their custom
of celebrating Christmas, reminds one of the 
days of chivalry of which the bards and poets
sang: 

"Children like holly berries,
Dear little robin said;
Gather them, bunch them together,
Mix with the green, the red.

"For if you love the children, 
It has been said some time,
In every holly berry,
Santa Claus hides a rhyme.

"Somebody pulled an armful,
Ran quickly home to look;
Found, for she so loves children,
Rhymes enough for a book."

	The Savior, Himself, beautifully illustrate
the most sublime sayings, and instructs His
disciples in parables that surpass in richness
and delicacy of sentiment, any productions of 
man. They are all the more forcible, because
 they are clothed by the touch of divine beauty. 
Who does not know that flowers inspire the 
tenderest emotions, that the evergreens and 
immortelles recall the immortal and imperish-
able? By all means encourage the beautiful,
be it ever so simple. 

"Fair nature's sweet symplicity
With elegance refined."

	What is there more touching in expression 
than the Savior's words:

	"Consider the lilies, how they grown, they toil not, neither
do they spin, and yet Solomon in all his glory was not
arrayed like one of these."

	But so dearly do I love the lilies, and such
like charming things, that lest I enter into an
elaborate dissertation upon flowers and trailing 
vines, winter berries and forest boughs, I will
say to my patient readers and dear, good
friends, known or unknown, "A Merry Christ-
mas" and "A Happy New Year," peace, happi-
ness and prosperity."
