THE ELECTORAL COLLEGES.

	The States having been all heard from re-
garding the Presidential contest, the next for-
mal procedure in the case is the assemblage of
the Electoral Colleges for the purpose of
choosing a President and Vice President of the
United States. This statement will cause a
feeling if not an expression of surprise with
many, who are led to suppose that the choice
was made Tuesday last. In one sense, they are
right; indirectly the election was completed
when the polls closed, but directly there wa

[Column 2]

no election of Chief Magistrate and his lieu-
tenant at all, only a choice of "electors."
This peculiar feature in the mechanism of the
government needs explanation to the class
spoken of, who, doubtless, have paid more at-
tention to any other prominent subject than to
politics.
	Each State of the Union is entitled to a
number of electors corresponding with its re-
presentation in Congress. No State has less
than three such delegates—two Senators and
one Representative. Each has the two Sena-
tors without respect to population, and also
one Representative no matter how limited the
number of inhabitants, but beyond this they
have additional Representatives only by ap-
pointment of Congress, which appointment is
always based upon the census previously taken.
For example, if Utah were admitted into the
Union today, she would be given two Senators
and but one Representative, no matter what
the number of her people; but if the census of
1890 showed that she had a population of 300-
000 say, or anywhere near that figure and the
basis of apportionment were fixed at 150,000 (it
is now about 140,000 we believe) for each re-
presentative, she would then be entitled to two,
and thereafter until the next census in 1900
she would have a delegation of four in Con-
gress and be entitled to that number of electors
at each Presidential election during the next
decade. All these in the different States are
chosen by the people on the same day, namely,
the Tuesday after the first Monday in Novem-
ber. The electors are not chosen by districts,
although each of them except the two at large
presumably represents a district, and in their
nomination reference is usually had to resi-
dence; the ballot of each and every voter in
the State contains or may contain at his option,
the names of all the candidates for electors to
which the State is entitled on the ticket he de-
sires to have succeed—thus, if he be a Demo-
crat, in New York he will choose a ticket hav-
ing not only the name of the elector presum-
ably representing his own district, but all the
others as well, and would thus vote for thirty-
six electors, the number which that State pos-
sesses. If the electors thus voted for have
more votes than any other party, the Demo-
cratic nominee for President and Vice Presi-
dent would be said to have carried the State,
and if enough States have gone the same way
to carry a majority of the whole number of
electors throughout the Union, the Democratic
candidates for these offices would be nomi-
nally elected. We say "nominally," because
technically, there would have been no election
of those officers. The electors so chosen meet
at the capitols of their respective States or
other place therein provided by local laws, on
a date fixed by national law, which may be any
week day after a reasonable length of time fol-
lowing the appointment of electors and before
the 4th of March following, the latter being
inauguration day. In the last election this was
the first Wednesday in December, but the date
has recently been advanced a month, so that
it now takes place in January.
	The electors when thus assembled are desig-
nated the electoral college, and when organized
they proceed formally to vote for a President
and Vice President of the United States. They
are not compelled to vote for any particular
person, so it will be seen that calling the voting
which takes place in November, the Presiden-
tial election is technically a misnomer, and
thereafter calling the candidates whose choice
is forshadowed President elect" and Vice-
President elect," is to apply misnomers. The
electors chosen on the Democratic ticket can
vote for the Republican candidates if they see
fit and vice versa, or both may be ignored and
men whose names have not even been mentioned
be legally voted for. But it is proper to say 
that no such instance of political treachery is
yet recorded in our history, the electors always

[Column 3]

voting in accordance with the preferences of
those who chose them. There was a departure
from this in the case of Horace Greeley in
1872, but there was nothing dishonorable in
the transaction, as he died before the college
met and many of his electors cast complimen-
tary ballots for their individual preferences.
	After the ballot for President and Vice Pre-
sident has been taken, the result is certified
to in triplicate; one of these certificates is for-
warded by special messenger to Washington,
who places it in the hands of the President of
the Senate, another is forwarded by mail to
that officer, and the third is deposited with the
judge of the district court for the district in
which the electors convened. On the second
Wednesday in February following, the two
houses of Congress meet in joint session, the
President of the Senate presiding; he then
opens the certificates and announces the result
in each case, concluding with an announcement
of the general result and a formal proclama-
tion by him that whoever may have been found
to have received the majority of all the votes
cast for President has been duly elected Presi-
dent and the same with regard to the second
position.
	All that there remains is for those who are
thus chosen to take the oath of office, which
generally takes place about noon on the fourth
of March following. The President and Vice-
President then enter upon the discharge of
their respective duties, those of the latter be-
ing merely nominal, and hardly that, unless
the Senate should be in extraordinary session at
the time, in which event he could, if he felt
disposed, preside over it, decide parliamen-
tary points, and have the casting vote when
there was a tie. This does not happen very
often, however.—Deseret News.


