[Vol10 | March 1923 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: A Social Conscience Laura F. Crane]

Ai A Social Conscience Laura F. Crane Grim tragedy was creeping cruelly into Caroline Myers' life. She, who had always lived as a rose, colorful and admired, and who had been carefully nurtured and shielded from life's rough blasts, was now no longer a carefree, smiling ornament, but a breathing, vital, suffering human being. Love had made the transformation. Love, the goddess who generously dispenses laughter and sunlight and joy, can also, with ruthless hand, administer tears and darkness and pain. A crumpled figure, Harriet was, as she sat in her easy chair and thought. She was facing her soul honestly, stripping off the draperies of sham, self-satisfaction, and conceit. In her solitude and honest frame of mind, she admitted to herself that she was utterly, completely, and hopelessly in love. This love, which wanted to bubble and dance, and blend with the laughing dawn and wistful moonlight, had to be curbed, checked, inhibited. She must crush the greatest joy of her young womanhood. She had dreamed of this strength and glory coming into her life—the love which would give her existence a completeness and purpose, that all through her young girlhood, she knew she lacked. She had found the hero of her dreams—the easily recognized prince. Phillip Homer represented all that was worthy and dignified in young manhood. But the song of love died on her lips, unsung; the brightly colored bubble that was about to crystalize and become her world, burst. Phillip, the ideal and idol of her life, did not love her in return. He regarded her much as he would a rose, as a beautiful adornment, a charming attribute of life, but plainly as a petty trifle not to be ued with serious things of the world. For Phillip was serious. He had spent his life in earnest toil and endeavor, and at a phenomenally early age, had received two degrees and occupied a chair in the department of sociology in the university. He and Caroline's father were great friends and comrades. And Caroline, in the eyes of both, was mere color in the room, a flower in a vase, to be ignored after a few admiring glances. The conversation of the night before had revealed, definitely, Phillip's attitude. Caroline had accompanied him to a dinner that had been given at the university. On their return he had told 
 her of his plan to attend Columbia, in the fall, and obtain his doctor's degree. She had exclaimed, "How lovely," realizing how inadequate was her remark. She felt very humble, and wished she dared add, "TI shall miss you very much." Later, when Phillip told her father of his plans, her father remarked, "It is not only that you are seeking learning that pleases me, my friend, but what pleases me more is that your ambition is not a selfish one. To give your youth and strength to a study of the intricacies of civilized society, with the burning desire to contribute something to the adjustment of man to this complex social order, thrills my soul. It is a noble mission. I am proud to own you as my friend." "It gives me strength to renew my work," Phillip responded, "to have you speak this way. The men and women around me, who understand and share my faith in my work, give me courage to continue. I find more and more, that the only real friends I have are those persons who have a social sense and conscience." The words kept repeating themselves in Caroline's mind, "fa social sense and conscience." Caroline hardly understood, even now, after thinking about the phrase all day. Could she create or develop in herself such a sense and conscience, and thus, at least, attain hig friendship? It was all so vague and high-sounding to her. She wished she could forget it and slip back to her old-time world of dances and frolics and unburdened youth. But one cannot associate with the gods and be satisfied thereafter with the company of grotesque gnomes. — So on the next Sunday when Phillip called at their home she asked somewhat timorously, "My friend, Till, heard that her washerwoman's baby was sick, and so she went to her home and helped care for it. Would you say that she had a 'social sense and conscience'?" Philip looked at her queerly. It was the most serious thing she had ever spoken in his presence. "Tt all depends," he answered, "If Till felt that she was stepping from some pedestal, and if she was enjoying playing the role of Lady Bountiful, expecting that for her little effort she would be rewarded with the washerwoman's eternal gratitude and the applause of friends, no. But if her concern for the welfare of the baby was sincere and her conscience would not let her do anything else but help her fellow-beings, whether rich or poor, even if it demanded personal sacrifice on her part—then I should answer, yes." It was more involved than Caroline anticipated. But desperation drove her on. She determined to cultivate a social sense although she honestly acknowledged that the reward was to be her only objective. A SOCIAL CONSCIENCE 125 She discovered a middle-aged woman, Mrs. Hatch, who lived across the street. For ten years Mrs. Hatch had been sitting tn a chair at her window, a pillow at her back. Her limbs do not move at her command. Her arms rest, inert, on her lap. Her pipe-stemmed legs end in twisted formations which were once young, dancing feet. Her hands! A few years ago they could flit nimbly over the keys of the piano, or arrange bright, gay flowers ina bowl. Now her fingers, from the knuckles to the yellow nails curl, not convexly, in the manner of hands, but unexpectedly concavely. All day long she sits. Her eyes are bright, as is her mind. Her teeth are gone, all but two, which protrude, witch-like, when she opens her mouth to whisper. She is lifted into bed and out of bed, by her sister who lives with her and tends her fire and cooks her meals. Caroline called on her. With flowers, and talked timidly to her. She told Caroline, in her gruesome whisper, but with. A kindly smile in her eyes, "I once liked to read, but I can't turn the pages now." After that Caroline called often, and read to her, some days forgetting entirely her hidden purpose. With a regret that was heroically cheerful, the sister of the invalid told Caroline, in secret, one day that she had an opportunity to go on a month's visit to her girlhood home. Her brother was willing to send her a railroad pass. But she explained that there was no one to care for the invalid and that a nurse was ouf of the question. Caroline admired her unselfish renunciation of the holiday. She would like to have offered money for the nurse but she knew the two proud spirits too well to even suggest such a plan. Caroline awoke in the night in a cold sweat. In her dreaming she had pictured herself caring for Mrs. Hatch—washing her bent fingers, feeding her with a spoon, and shoveling coal into her little stove. She felt menial and unclean to have even dreamed of such an ungenteel situation. But why not? Phillip—the heartless, unseeing wretch had not noticed her frequent visits across the way. He seemed totally oblivious to her newly acquired social sense. But if she gave up her freedom for a month, and if she would assume the part of a benevolent neighbor for four long weeks, the very blind could not help but see and admire her noble, self-sacrificing spirit. Mrs. Hatch's sister accepted the offer, with some trepidation. But with a, joyous heart. Her sincere gratitude and her heartfeit blessing, made Caroline feel almost guilty. She listened, attentively and smilingly, to the final instructions and admonitions. Phillip did notice. The second day of her service he called to take her for a ride. It was afternoon and she still wore a gingham dress. 
 39 "I can't leave today," she told him simply; she realized that she must not flaunt her virtues. "Why? Are you expecting visitors?' He knew there were no household duties to detain her. "No, but I am doing some little trifles that my conscience will not let me leave undone." Her sweet tone, and half air of mystery, stirred his interest and curiosity. He called again in a few days and was again refused enigmatically. Then one night he asked her father what kept her busy. "I don't know what has happened to Caroline," he replied, "she spends the greater part of her time with the two elderly women. Across the way, and she is taking care of the invalid while the sister is away. "Caroline has feeling and depth that we have not discovered, I suppose," Phillip answered. In the days that followed, he observed Caroline with a new interest, and she sometimes trembled as a choking hope filled her' heart. Then Mrs. Hatch took sick. She had a temperature and the doctor, that Caroline summoned, ordered Mrs. Hatch to remain in bed. A nurse was called, for Caroline would not risk the life-of her friend to the care of her inexpert hands. At the request of Mrs. Hatch, and with the consent of the doctor, the sister was not notified. Caroline was held, as though bound, at the sick woman's bedside. Her interest was no longer feigned. She was not the selfish, superficial maid of a few weeks before, trying to attract the attention of a man. She was seeing the struggle of life and death, and sensing the faith of a serene soul who places her trust in her Creator, and she was realizing that this crippled body held a spirit that was precious and dear to her. For three days she thought only of her suffering friend. The figure of a man who, a few weeks before had plunged her in such gloom, never entered her consciousness. A sincere joy came into her heart when the doctor announced that her friend would improve. The following days were spent in - making her comfortable, and Mrs. Hatch was back again in her chair when the grateful sister returned.  "You will write me once in a while, won't you, Caroline?' Phillip asked, before his departure for Columbia. "Tell me the town news and of your pilgrimages into the heart of the hungering world." "I will if you really want me to." It was a small crumb from his table of affection, particularly A SOCIAL CONSCIENCE 127 when she recalled that she had once hoped to partake of the whole banquet. But in her new humility she was content: —The winter passed quickly for Caroline. Much of her time was taken in caring for a schoolmate's twins, while their mother languished in a hospital. After a strenuous effort Caroline made a friend of an aloof woman, who livedon the block, and whose husband had deserted her years before. She helped Caroline, reluctantly at first, but in the end joyfully, to care for the twins. She found that in laying down her life, in giving up her rosy self-centered dream of love, that a new love, different in character, but altogether as sustaining, entered her life. So the helpless twins filled her empty mother heart. In Caroline's days, too, there was the glad note of friendly letters from New York. In the spring, a bulky one brought a message she had not, for a long time, dared to even dream of. Phillip told her that her womanly sympathies and her generous heart, combined with her sweet nature and glorious beauty, made her the supreme woman in his life "Why don't you and your father visit New York, at Commencement time, and let me have the opportunity to try to convince you of my deep regard for you and my burning hope of winning your love." Unconscious of any sacrifice, and with utmost sincerity, Caroline said in her return letter: "I can't leave the twins now, but the doctor assures me that their real mother will be well in a few more months, I am sure I'll need you to fill the space that they will leave i in my heart when they go away. I'll be happy when you return." TENDER FEELINGS Wrap your tender feelings in cotton or soft paper. Put them in a band-box and keep them in a cool place. They are liable to be hurt out in the world. If you have "hard" feelings, use one ounce of common sense and a little bit of love and they will dissolve. If someone didn't speak to you, you probably looked like an iceberg—consider it a compliment and keep quiet.