GUIDE LESSONS. 657 Use the French fashions of puttingthe shoes to receive the gift for a novelty. c. Do you think it possible to give a valuable art lesson to your family by working out a scheme of color in your Christmas tree decorations? ARCHITECTURE. December. PANAMA-PACIFIC INTERNATIONAL EXPOSITION. Show a collection of views of the Exposition. Three years before the opening of the Panama-Pacific International Exposition the site of its fascination courts, entrancing gardens, its fine Italian towers and Moslem domes, was a marshy ? sea-washed stretch the home of the sea-gull. Two continents had been severed to make way for shipping". Generations had been waiting for this cut, and it was meet that the world should be called to take notice of so stupendous an event by joining in the making of a world's Exposition in its honor. No spot more wonderful could have been chosen for a world's meeting place there to commemorate with architecture and sculpture, withr painting and with flowers, with oratory and song, and with all the handiwork of man, this marvelous accomplishment! So here was reared, by American artists, a city of enchantment. Looking upon it from the Bay, or from the nearby hills, it appears like a beautiful mosaic, rythmical in plan ? but it was ? never planned it is the result of a dream or vision Who has not! been entranced by its marvelous color scheme, its balance and originality of design. There are few men who deserve our admiration for their part in achieving this work of art. Let us write their names upon a tablet of honor. Mr. Willis Polk and Mr. Edward Bennett who saw the vision and laid the foundation. George Kelham, of San Francisco (architect), Manager in Chief. Karl Bitter, of New York, and Sterling Calder who thought the sculptures. Mr. Ryan, of San Francisco, and Mr. Guy Bailey, of Berkley, illuminators. John McLaren and Donald, his son, landscape gardeners. Porter Garnett, of Berkley, selected the inscriptions. Paul E. Denver, of New York, invented the materials for the buildings. 
 Jules Guerin created the color scheme. The architect of the Court of Ages, Louis Christian Mullgardt. Architect of the Court of the Four Seasons, Henry Bacon, of New York. Architect of the Palace of Horticulture, Bakewell and Brown, of San Francisco. Architects of Palace of Fine Arts, Bernard R. Maybeck, of San Francisco. LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in October. THE HOME ECONOMICS MOVEMENT AND ITS MEANING. Foreshadowing. ? In ages past, during the patriarchal period, men provided the food while women cooked it and kept the hearth fires burning. When warring tribes encroached, or fresh pastures were sought, locations were changed, and the women carried seeds of grains and fruits and planted them in the new environment. In those times her life was lived in the out-of-doors and she was the mother of the arts and crafts. In medieval ages she spun, wove and dyed, supervised the making of the household necessities, was famed for culinary art and needlework. Her place at the pinnacle of a cycle was assured, the lady bountiful, the head of home industries. Then the cycle of commercial industry swept the home and village manufacturers, into great buildings filled with machinery. The home from being an industrial center became a place of small daily tasks. But with the commercial cycle had begun an educational era, and women, in the world, bereft of other things turned to scholarship, and public life. Amongst us women have taken up their Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and temple work. ? The Awakening. Just when it seemed as though home and its keeping was to be an experiment, turning out well or ill according to the natural ability of the keeper, the leaders of this people organized women, and church schools, making extension divisions of the R. S. teachers' activities. Our leading men and women called attention to the heavy death rate, particularly among infants, to lack of general health, and told us that it was due to sins against sanitation, nutrition, and urged the people to study the Word of Wisdom and the laws of Moses. Their GUIDE LESSONS. 659 indefatigable labors brought to the minds of our people a realization of the need for special training in home making lines, and provided means for that training. The fruits.of their labors are seen today in the universal instruction that is given in home lines, in our Church and state schools. In the world there are special colleges, and nearly every higher institution provides courses in home economics, while high schools are all more or less equipped with laboratory facilities. Agricultural Colleges were endowed our own Utah A. C. being a pioneer in every phase of; this work, and it now occupies front rank in every department and function. ? Extension Departments. But this progress was not made without educational work among the parents, and there were numbers of young women who would never have a chance for such an education. It was the need for arousing the sympathy and insuring the co-operation of the former and bringing, help to the latter, that brought the college extension movement into being. It is in fact what its name implies, an extension of the courses taught in school and college to the farm and home. ? Steps in Development. At first the work was carried on by means of farmers' institutes at which College professors and local farmers talked to audiences made up mostly of men, the women's share being a demonstration in the preparation, service, and clearance of a bounteous lunch. After a time a woman speaker was added to the afternoon's program. Such women as could, attended, while the men graciously left the discussion of livestock and crops to listen to talks on food preparation, sanitation, and care of human offspring. Perhaps there are few things so suggetsive of what education on these lines has done as the fact that today a woman speaker holds as high a place as a man at an institute, and her subject is listened to and discussed with equal eagerness by both sides of the house. Short Courses, Conferences, Movable Schools. ? Farmers' institutes were good in their way, but did not last long enough and were too circumscribed. Short courses of from three days to one week's duration, consisting of movable schools, for both men and women, and in which instruction is given either in the form of a class and laboratory at which the women actually do the v/ork, or by lectures and demonstrations, were instituted. Once a year a big conference is held at which speakers of note are heard. These forms of extension work, too, had, and still have, great value, giving chances to meet the women and discuss their problems not only in the lecture hall but also in their homes. Institutes and schools were supported by the state funds. Farm and Home Demonstration Work. Heretofore ? "Uncle Sam" had been an interested spectator except for the 
 maintaining of Experiment Stations for agriculture in each state, and the publishing of bulletins for the use of both the farmer and his wife. It became apparent, however, to our government that the material from the college and experiment station given by those doing extension work, was reaching to a great extent only the ears of the audiences, and for the amount of time and money expended did not show sufficient results in active work on farms or in homes. And so the idea was evolved of employing men and women to live among the people and to help them by means of field and home demonstrations, to put into practice the better methods taught. Again, our own agricultural college was at the head of this progressive movement. A bill known as the SmithLever Bill was passed providing for the work and its maintenace. From henceforth extension work no longer is carried on by the state and college alone, but by the government of the United States, through the Department of Agriculture, in co-operation with the states of the Union through the extension divisions of the respective colleges of agriculture. ? The States Relations Service. All great undertakings must be organized to be successful. A department at Washington, D. C, known as the States Relations Service was formed. This department takes charge of the farm and home demonstration work. ? Women's Share. There has recently been appointed' a woman whose time is devoted to supervising the projects undertaken in the various states, while state leaders are being appointed to supervise the work of women county agents in the states. ? Utah's Share. It is interesting to note that Utah was the first state in the Union to engage a woman to do home demonstration work in a county. We have at this time two women in two counties. They carry on their work by means of projects, the nature of which depends upon the needs of the community. Perhaps the ones most prominent are nutrition of infants, with the allied activities of clean milk campaigns, baby clinics, and general town clean-ups family diet including cookery, vegetable garden; contests, canning, household finance, and general home management. Our Relief Society has taken up this work and we urge our women to join, and take part in the movement. The President of the U. A. C. has promised us all the aid we desire both through special teachers and by arranging their Institute Classes to fit our needs. ? ? ? Z. C M. I. School Shoes For Boys Are made for service they will keep the boys? feet warm and dry. Z. C. M. I. ALLOVERS are the ideal The Food for play garment Your Family for boys and Artificial things always have girls. Cheap, their day. A fancy breakfast food serviceable. may be popular for a short time, but since health is priceless, nearly everyone turns, sooner or later, back to nature for pure, unchanged foods, like ROLLED OATS Travel-Morel Locally There it nothing artificial about these oats, just the biggest, mellowest, most delicious oats that can be produced in this mountain country, are rolled to a flakiness and a palatability that delights the whole family. You do not have to coax the boys to eat "SUNRIPE" Rolled Oats. SLIGHTLY MORE Contains the Strength of the of the Hills" Try Sunripe Koffe-et for a refreshing, healthful drink. "Better than ever." Utah Cereal Food Co. OGDEN, UTAH. EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Tempi* Street Salt Lake City, Utah "Utah't M?tt Fofular Music Houte" ON FREE TRIAL IN YOUR OWN HOME This fine COLUMBIA GRAFONOLA, brand-new, latest model, with 20 fine selections, delivered to your home on five d a y s' FREE TRIAL. No C. O. D. No Money Down. English and American MAIL COUPON TODAY ARCHITECTURE Daynes-Beebe Music Co., Salt Lake. Br GEO. M. ALLEN Please send me particulars of your FREE TRIAL OFFER mentioned in is in Mrs. Home's Art Book, the Relief Society Magazine. DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES. Send to this office or Name. . to Mrs. Alice Merrill Home, 4 Address. Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1 9 1 6 are assigned. PRICE $1.26 POSTPAID Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing announces the opening of its thirteenth school year on Monday, September 18, 1916. School term, 8 months. ? Course A Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics, which ? includes nursing and invalid cooking $50.00. ? Course B Entrance fee for course in Nursing, which in? cludes invalid cooking $25.00. ? Course C ^At intervals during the school year, lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, Etc., will be given by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists. No charge. ? Course D ^A class in Invalid Cooking will be conducted by experts; no extra charge for students taking other courses. Instructor, DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. For further information write to General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ?and sons?to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls,prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The AgricuK^ral College of the State of Utah. Bead Neck Chains 75c to $300. Come in and look at them. If you live out of town write about them. We show them in Imitation Pearls, Real Pearl, Jet, Amber, Coral and Gold. Bead Chains are always appropriate, always in good taste. McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City CALIFORNIA The Winter Resort of America Avoid the rigors of Winter by visiting SUNNY CALIFORNIA San Francisco, Del Monte, Pacific Grove, Santa Cruz, Big Trees, Santa Barbara, and Los Angeles all invite you. i. S hALL POINTS REACHED VIA The Standard Line X of the We^ Personally Planned Itineraries ? Beautifully Illustrated Literature furnished on request For Information Call On F. E. SCOTT District Passenger Agent, Phone Was. 6900 City Ticket Office, 203 Walker Bank Bldg. SOUTHERN PACIFIC DECEMBER, 1916. |Q&D SPECIAL ARTICLES RELIEF SOCIETY MINUTES Amy Brown Lyrnan. CHRISTMAS STORY Ruth Moench Bell. THE McCUNE HOME Illustrated. PREVIEW OF 1917 OUTLINES Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29, Bishop's Bldg.,Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year? Single Copy 10c