	STATEMENT OF WILLIAM CLAYTON.

				Copy.

	Inasmuch as it may be interesting to future
generations of the members of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to learn
something of the first teachings of the princi-
ple of plural marriage by President Joseph
Smith, the Prophet, Seer, Revelator and trans-
lator of said Church, I will give a short re-
lation of facts which occurred within my per-
sonal knowledge, and also matters related to
me by President Joseph Smith.
	I was employed as a clerk in President
Joseph Smith's office, under Elder Willard
Richards, and commenced to labor in the office
on the 10th day of February, 1842. I con-
tinued to labor with Elder Richards until he
went east to fetch his wife to Nauvoo.
	After Elder Richards started East I was
necessarily thrown constantly into the com-
pany of President Smith, having to attend to
his public and private business, receiving and
recording tithings and donations, attending to
land and other matters of business. During
this period I necessarily became well ac-
quainted with Emma Smith, the wife of the
Prophet Joseph, and also with the children—
Julia M. (an adopted daughter), Joseph, 
Frederick and Alexander, very much of the
business being transacted at the residence of
the Prophet.
	On the 7th of October, 1842, in the presence
of Bishop Newel K. Whitney and his wife
Elizabeth Ann, President Joseph Smith ap-
pointed me Temple Recorder, and also his
private clerk, placing all records, books, papers,
etc., in my care, and requiring me to take
charge of and preserve them, his closing words
being, "when I have any Revelations to write.
you are the one to write them."
	During this period the Prophet Joseph
frequently visited my house in my company,
and became well acquainted with my wife Ruth,
to whom I had been married five years. One
day in the month of February, 1843, date not
remembered, the Prophet invited me to walk 
with him. During our walk, he said he had
learned that there was a sister back in Eng-
land, to whom I was very much attached. I
replied, there was, but nothing further than an
attachment, such as a brother and sister in the 
Church might rightfully entertain for each
other. He then said, "Why don't you send
for her?" I replied, "In the first place, I have
no authority to send for her, and if I had, I 
have not the means to pay expenses." To 
this he answered, "I give you authority to
send for her, and I will furnish you the 
means," which he did. This was the first time
the Prophet Joseph talked with me on the sub-
ject of plural marriage. He informed me that
the doctrine and principle was right in the
sight of our Heavenly Father, and that it was a
doctrine which pertained to Celestial order and
glory. After giving me lengthy instructions
and information concerning the doctrine of
celestial or plural marriage, he concluded his
remarks by the words, "It is your privilege to
have all the wives you want." After this in-
troduction, our conversations on the subject of

[Column 2]
plural marriage were very frequent, and he
appeared to take particular pains to inform
and instruct me in respect to the principle. He
also informed me that he had other wives liv-
ing besides the first wife Emma, and in par-
ticular, gave me to understand that Eliza R.
Snow, Louisa Beman, Desdamona C. Fullmer
and others, were his lawful wives in the sight 
of Heaven.
	On the 27th of April, 1843, the Prophet
Joseph Smith married to me Margaret Moon,
for time and eternity, at the residence of Elder
Heber C. Kimball; and on the 22d of July,
1843, he married to me, according to the
order of the Church, my first wife Ruth.
	On the 1st day of May, 1843, I officiated in
the office of an Elder by marrying Lucy
Walker to the Prophet Joseph Smith, at his
own residence.
	During this period the Prophet Joseph took
several other wives. Amongst the number I
well remember Eliza Partridge, Emily Part-
ridge, Sarah Ann Whitney, Helen Kimball 
and Flora Woodworth. These all, he ac-
knowledged to me, were his lawful, wedded
wives, according to the celestial order. His
wife Emma was cognizant of the fact of some
if not all of these being his wives, and gener-
ally treated them very kindly.
	On the morning of the 12th of July, 1843,
Joseph and Hyrum Smith came into the office
in the upper story of the "brick store," on the
bank of the Mississippi river. They were
talking on the subject of plural marriage. Hy-
rum said to Joseph, "If you will write the
revelation on Celestial Marriage, I will take
and read it to Emma, and I believe I can con-
vince her of its truth, and you will hereafter
have peace." Joseph smiled and remarked,
"You do not know Emma as well as I do." Hy-
rum repeated his opinion and further re-
marked, "The doctrine is so plain, I can con-
vince any reasonable man or woman of its
truth, purity and heavenly origin," or words
to their effect. Joseph then said, "well, I 
will write the revelation and we will see." He
then requested me to get paper and prepare
to write. Hyrum very urgently requested
Joseph to write the revelation by means of the
Urim and Thummim, but Joseph, in reply
said he did not need to, for he knew the reve-
lation perfectly from beginning to end.
	Joseph and Hyrum then sat down, and
Joseph commenced to dictate the revelation
on Celestial Marriage, and I wrote it, sentence
by sentence, as he dictated. After the whole
was written, Joseph asked me to read it
through, slowly and carefully, which I did
and he pronounced it correct. He then re-
marked that there was much more that he
could write, on the same subject, but what was
written was sufficient for the present.
	Hyrum then took the Revelation to read to
Emma. Joseph remained with me in the
office until Hyrum returned. When he came
back Joseph asked how he had succeeded.
Hyrum replied that he had never received a
more severe talking to in his life, that Emma
was very bitter and full of resentment
and anger.
	Joseph quietly remarked, "I told you, you 
did not know Emma as well as I did." Joseph
then put the Revelation in his pocket, and
they both left the office.
	The Revelation was read to several of the
authorities during the day. Towards evening
Bishop Newel K. Whitney asked Joseph if he
had any objections to his taking a copy of the
Revelation; Joseph replied that he had not,
and handed it to him. It was carefully copied
the following day by Joseph C. Kingsbury.
Two or three days after the Revelation was
written Joseph related to me and several others
that Emma had so teased, and urgently en-
treated him for the privilege of destroying it,
that he became so weary of her teasing, and to

[Column 3]
g[-]t rid of her annoyance, he told her she
m[-]ght destroy it and she had done so, but he
had consented to her wish in this matter to
pacify her, realizing that he knew the Revela-
tion perfectly, and could re-write it at any
time if necessary.
	The copy made by Joseph C. Kingsbury is a
tru[-] and correct copy of the original in every 
resp[-]ct. The copy was carefully preserved
by Bishop Whitney, and but few knew of its
exist[-]nce until the temporary location of the
Cam[-] of Israel at Winter Quarters, on the
Missouri River, in 1846.
	Aft[-]r the Revelation on celestial marriage
was w[-]itten Joseph continued his instructions,
privat[-]ly, on the doctrine, to myself and
others, and during the last year of his life we
were sc[-]rcely ever together, alone, but he was
talking on the subject, and explaining that
doctrine and principles connected with it. He
appeare[-] to enjoy great liberty and freedom
in his te[-]chings, and also to find great relief
in having a few to whom he could unbosom
his feelin[-]s on that great and glorious subject.
	From h[-]m, I learned that the doctrine of
plural and celestial marriage is the most holy
and impor[-]ant doctrine ever revealed to man
on the eart[-], and without obedience to that
principle n[-] man can ever attain to the fulness
of exaltatio[-] in celestial glory. 
			(Signed) WILLIAM CLAYTON.
Salt Lake C[-]ty, February 16th, 1874.

