	RIVERDALE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Conference was held at


[Column 1]
the residence of Mrs. Bybee, May 13th, 1886, 
there being forty-one members present. After
the usual opening exercises, the minutes of
the previous conference were read and ap-
proved. We next heard the statistical and
financial reports, which showed that the sis-
ters were doing a good work financially as
well as spiritually. We listened to an excel-
lent programme, which gave the sisters great
credit who took part therein. The first was
"The Young Ladies' Instructor," read by the
Editor, Martha Stimpson, which contained
a great many good instructions. One essay
worthy of mention was the one written by
Mary Stimpson upon "Usefulness;" next an
Essay by Nellie Child, following which was a
Dialogue by five members of the Association;
we were next favored with a Song, entitled, 
"Nearer Home," from Jessie McDonald; the
last on the programme was a lecture from the
Bible, by Eliza W. Child. The speaker lec-
tured from the second chapter of the Epistle
of James, stating that we should not think too
much about riches and respect rich persons
and despise the poor, but rather be kind and
merciful to all, and ever strive for a living
faith, such as Abraham had. 
	Prest. Russell: The Lord is pleased with us
when we try to do right, and to attend our meet-
ings while we are blest with health and strength
thought if we would all try to fill our part in
the meetings we would be more able to keep
the Spirit of the Lord with us. Was pleased
to see some of the elder sisters in our midst;
asked the Lord to bless all with His Spirit. 
	Coun. Bybee felt thankful to see so many of
the sisters present, that we might rejoice to-
gether and call down the blessings of the
Lord; felt to say, "God bless the sisters in their
undertakings." The young and new begin-
ners were blessed and would be in trying to fill
their part in the meetings. We should visit
the lonely and try to comfort them in the ab-
sence of parents and friends; asked God to
bless all, that they might speak by the Spirit 
of the Lord. 
	Coun. Bingham was pleased to be among 
the sisters again; felt to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in all things; asked the Lord to
bless us with His Spirit, that we might continue 
in the good work we had begun. Singing by
the Association, after which Sister McDonald
bore her testimony to the work of God; felt to
uphold all the officers in the Church, and to
continue to do good so as to obtain an exalta-
tion in the kingdom of God. 
	Sister M. Mitchel said she had not premedi-
tated anything to say. The Lord has been
kind and merciful to me in giving me a testi-
mony of this work, which I am happy to bear.
The Spirit of God will be withdrawn from
use if we do not live our religion as we ought
and as we have been taught. Thought it very 
difficult to speak to an audience of Latter-day
Saints, and we needed the Spirit of the Lord. 
	Sister Hannah Child bore a true testimony
to the work of God; felt always to try to do
His will, and asked to be dictated by
His Spirit what to say, both to the old and
to the young. We should heed the prompt-
ings of the Spirit of the Lord; prayed continu-
 ally that she might be able to set a worthy ex-
ample to those who were around her. 
	Sister Annie Bybee said she had a testimony
to bear. Asked the Lord to grant us the de-
sires of our hearts, and to hear and answer
our prayers. We should not go ahead of our
leaders nor their teachings, but heed their
counsels and strive to obey them. 
	Sister Dye had been well pleased with the
[-]rogramme, and felt it had been rendered by 
[-]he Spirit of the Lord. May God enable us
[-]o perform the duties placed upon us.  
	Sister Bingham said she felt to put her trust
[---] the Lord, and asked Him to dictate her
[---]at to say. Had always desired to live hum-

[Column 2]
ble and prayerful, and prayed for wisdom to
guide her. This was one of the greatest bless-
ings God could give his children. We should
not get careless in our duties, nor be negligent, 
for if we are the Lord will punish us by allow-
ing us to suffer persecution. We must try to
prove ourselves worthy of the blessings of God
and to look over each other's weaknesses. We
should try to assist the priesthood in all things
and look after the poor; we have been blessed
of God for our good works, and we must give
Him thanks for his guidance. It is wisdom to
study the welfare of each other; we should
bear with each other and have charity for all. 
Desired to be able to keep the commandments
of God, and be subject to those placed over us. 
	Prest. Russell said, "We have had the Spirit
of the Lord in our midst; had often felt
the Spirit of God in our meetings. If we are
faithful and prayerful we will be blessed in
sickness; we all have weaknesses to overcome, 
but we should put our trust in the Lord. We
need great faith and wisdom in raising our fami-
lies." Exhorted all to try to attend Sunday
School. 
	The officers of the Association were then
presented for approval. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Coun. Bingham. 
