EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	After a number of weeks silence it is with 
grateful heart that I can again take my pen to 
give expression to a few of my thoughts, thanks
to Him who suffers us to be stricken and afflicted 
occasionally that we may learn the needful lessons
more fully, and to practice the virtues of patience, 
and endurance, and to say, "In Thee alone I 
trust." A lesson that all must learn sooner or
later, and nought but experience will ever teach
it. That no one may infer from this that I am sad
and desponding, I will say that, though I have
been seriously ailing, and enfeebled in body, hope
has never deserted me, nor the interest which I
have so long felt, in this glorious cause. 
	No one need despair when there are so many
rich blessings laying within their reach, shedding 
forth rays of hope and gladness to cheer the
hearts of all who have a mind to grasp them. Even
the lowliest hovel may become a paradise when
adorned by these treasures one which a gold mine
could not purchase, nor all the Anti-"Mormon" 
crusaders, or judicial powers that the evil one
may send, have the power to rob them of. To such
even the monster death is shorn of its sting. 
Though we as a people are being scourged, and
can look for no clemency from the earthly powers
that be, no community ever had greater cause for 
gratitude for the numerous mercies that are being
bestowed by the hand of a kind indulgent Father, 
in these days of death, and destruction, which is
being dealt out without [----] to the inhabi-


[Column 1]
tants of this once blest and peaceful land, as well
as to all the nations of the earth, bringing de-
vastation and ruin on every side, and the most
apalling distress to all classes, and we know that
this is just the beginning. We cannot take up a
paper that does not tell us of disasters by land and
by sea, and destruction in the most terrible forms.
The tragedies that are being daily enacted by
mobs, "anarchists" and "strikers," etc. And the
latest horror is the tornado that passed over some
of the Western States, from whence we were so
cruelly banished after being treated in the most
brutal manner by fiends in human shape. Even
that part which passed over Ohio on the night of
the 15th, published in the Deseret News of the
17th inst., is enough to curdle the blood in our
own veins. The destruction of lives and property
and the suffering which it has wrought cannot be
estimated. "Trees were uprooted by the acre,
and hundreds of orchards are completely gone,"
and even whole towns are swept away. Two or
three story brick houses were taken up like feath-
ers and dashed to pieces. "Feathers were torn
from chickens. Trees were stripped of their bark,
the ground was plowed up," and the "terrific time
on an express train threw every passenger into a
paroxysm of fear. The sleepers were transformed
into dens of wildly excited men and women." In
Seneca County one man declared that the air was
filled with balls of fire. He saw a strange light.
Others corroborate this story and say that the
light under the dark cloud looked like that from a
large gas well." I have barely touched upon the
scenes described in that one telegram. All these
things we understand to be among the judgments
that were to come upon the earth in the last days,
and which every Latter-day Saint ought to read
and profit by, that they may escape the wrath of
the Almighty, and not be found among those
who know not God, and do not acknowledge His
hand in all things.
	All these things serve to remind us of the past
and of the Prophet's words after we had been so
mercilessly treated in the State of Missouri—not
because of polygamy, but because we differed
from other sects in religious principles, and our
petitions to Congress were unheeded. That if
this nation did not repress those wrongs "the
time would soon come when they would have
mobbing to their hearts content." The Lord
commanded that His servants should importune
at the feet of the judges, the Governors and the
Presidents, which they have done faithfully from
that time to the present. "And if the President
heed them not," He said, "then will the Lord
come out of his hiding place and in his fury vex
the nation. And in his hot displeasure, and in
his fierce anger, in his time, will cut off those
wicked, unfaithful, and unjust stewards, and ap-
point them their portion among hypocrites, and
unbelievers, even in outer darkness, where there
is weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth.
	Though we are now witnessing His fierce
judgements no true Saint—notwithstanding they
are suffering under the bitter injustice, that is be-
ing done to them by this nation, could gloat over
anothers woes, or wish for them to suffer in re-
taliation. But they pray for those who despite-
fully use them, and are fighting against their Re-
deemer, that their eyes may be opened to their
true condition, and the frightful debt that is ac-
cumulating against them in persecuting an inno-
cent people. For the meek and long suffering
have a sure promise that notwithstanding the
persecutions, which were needful to purge out
iniquities from among them, as no plan would be
untried to overthrow His Kingdom He would
strengthen Zion in the valleys of these mountains
and bring deliverance to His people. Their
wicked snares will take only those whom the
Lord has designed that they should, and every-
thing we see and hear is calculated to increase
our faith, and serves as an assurance that these
whom the world hate are the favored of God.

[Column 2]
What then have we to fear when His arm is out-
stretched in our behalf only to disoby his com-
mands? For He said, "He that seeketh me early
shall find me, and shall not be forsaken. And
after your testimony cometh wrath and indigna-
tion upon the people."
	In the Revelation and Prophecy given through
him in 1832 concerning the war between the
Northern and Southern States, which has been
fulfilled in part, we find the following. "And it shall
come to pass after many days slaves shall rise up
against their masters, who shall be marshalled
and disciplined for war:
	And it shall come to pass also, that the rem-
nants who are left of the land will marhall them-
selves, and shall become exceeding angry and
shall vex the Gentiles with sore vexation.
	And thus, with the sword and by bloodshed,
the inhabitants of the earth shall mourn; and
with famine, and plague, and earthquakes and
thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid light-
ning also the inhabitants of the earth be made to
feel the wrath and indignation and chastening
hand of an Almighty God, until the consumption
decreed hath made a full end of all nations; that
the cry of the Saints, and of the blood of the
Saints shall cease to come up into the ears of the
Lord of Sabaoth, from the earth, to be avenged of
their enemies.
	Wherefore, stand ye in holy places, and be not
moved until the day of the Lord come; for be-
hold it cometh quickly, saith the Lord. Amen."
