		SOME HARD QUESTIONS.

	Has Senator Edmunds a [-]fe or a daughter?
If he has either, what must be her feelings to-
wards him? How must she r[-]gard his injustice
to woman? How can she tolerate the inhu-
manity of his nature, which is so apparent in
the laws he has framed for Utah? laws which
are to take away the political rights, not only
of those women whom he cho[-]ses to call offend-
ers, but those also who have committed no of-
fence.
	And the government officials, who, here in

[Column 2]
Utah, are carrying out some of Edmunds’ un-
just suggestions even before they have become
laws. Is it possible that they, at least some of
the most cruel of them, can have wives,
daughters, or sisters? It is to be hoped not!
After heaping the insults and indignities upon
“Mormon” women that they do, how could
they ever have the assurance to speak to or
look at any woman again? They must have
had mothers—are they dead? It is a great
pity if some of them are not. Supposing it to
be the case, that either of the gentlemen
operating in the federal court here has a wife,
how would he like to have such questions asked
of her, as have been asked of other men’s
wives, and in open court?
	It is to be feared that these gentlemen, in all
their studies and researches after knowledge,
have failed to come accross, or else have en-
tirely overlooked the GOLDEN RULE. It
would be a charitable work to get that beauti-
ful law printed on Sunday School cards and
send it to them by an army of the little “Mor-
mon” children whose papas are now in prison.
In prison for no crime, except that they own
and support them and their mammas, and
some of the leading ones of the nation choose
to call this wrong. “If you would only re-
nounce polygamy!” some of them have said;
but how is it now, if non-polygamists are to be
disfranchised the same as though they were
really among the offenders? Can they not see
that they are showing us before hand that we
need not anticipate any good from them, how-
ever we might turn, so long as we choose to
serve the Lord instead of the evil one, so long
as we will live pure lives instead of corrupt
ones? If they don’t see it we do, and we are
all the more determined to love the Lord and
serve Him with all our might. May He have
mercy on us and save us, and may He have
mercy, and if possible turn them from the
error of their ways. We do not ask them to
have pity on us; we have learned better; but
from the very bottom of our hearts, great,
warm, loving hearts, such as they know noth-
ing about—we pity them and pray for them.
We are shocked and wounded now by their
cruelty towards us, by all that we see and hear
of them; but oh! it will be far more terrible to
see and hear them in the near future, when
they are calling for rocks and mountains to
fall upon them, and hide them from the
presence of an offended and all powerful God!
			LULA GREENE RICHARDS.
	March 5th, 1886.


[Column 1]
