BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
	I here produce a few extracts from a letter
written by Father Whitney to his sons Horace
and Orson, then with the pioneers, which he
wrote June 14th, 1847, and directed as fol-
lows:
	Camp of Israel in the West.
MY SONS HORACE AND ORSON:
	I have just started a team for the mountains.
*	*	I intended to have sent two or
three teams and wagons, but the mill dam go-
ing down stream a few days since, I could not
procure bread stuff for more than one wagon,
and that is in charge of Bros. Archibald Hill
and Stillman Pond. They have for you near
two hundred pounds of flour and one small
cheese, say eight or ten pounds, if you need it.
Should you not want all the flour, take as much
of it as will do you and let them keep the
balance, as they are rather scant of bread stuff.
If my team should meet you on your return
you will give Bros. Pond and Hill a list of all
my property which you may have left the
other side of the mountains, and in order that
they may get possession of it, and take care of
the same until I come, and give them all the
instructions you can about matters appertain-
ing to my business, etc., in that country, as
they have gone expressly to attend to my busi-
ness, as also their own. It is a general time
of health in this place, but there are quite a
number of poor on our hands, which makes it
rather hard times; but as we have a large
quantity of grain growing, we hope we shall
be able to do better by them by and by. We
have been hindered in starting a company
early, as anticipated when you left, in conse-
quence of not being able to procure a sup-


[Column 1]

ply of bread stuff sufficient to warrant it, and
some other reasons might be assigned. 
	We have concluded to fit out but one com-
pany to the mountains this season, and it is ex-
pected that it will consist of not less than from
four to five hundred wagons, from the present
calculations, and the most of them will be un-
der the necessity of taking the greater part of
their grain unground. Bro. Eldredge takes a
pair of small mill stones with him, and the
necessary irons, etc., to set a mill in operation 
by horse power or otherwise, in a short time
after his arrival at the place of destination. 
	Your mother has written you at some length, 
she says, and it is therefore unnecessary for me
to touch on any matter except business, but
would say that you have our prayers night and
day for your prosperity in all things, as also all
of your company, that you may prosper and
return safe to us this fall, and I am sanguine
you will. But remember to be prayerful and
show yourselves approved before the Lord, and
heed the counsel of those whom the Lord has
ordained to give counsel, and it shall be well
with you. This from your father, who blesses
you in the name of the Lord. 
	This is confidential, but you can show it to
H. C. K. if you choose. 
		N. K. WHITNEY.
	P. S. Give my good wishes to Bros. Brig-
ham and Heber and all the others; tell them
things are right in the main, and it is a hurry-
ing time, as usual, or I would have written
them; but I suppose their families have written
them fully on all matters. May the Lord
bless you all.	N. K. W.
	Early in October Bro. William Clayton, 
with a few others who had preceded the camp
of pioneers, arrived at Winter Quarters, weary
and worn down by travel, and having been for 
some time destitute of provisions, and depend-
ent solely upon the killing of wild game for
subsistence. They were a sorry looking set, 
and words would fail to express our feelings
when we saw them in such a ragged and for-
lorn condition, and were told that they must
be eight or nine days in advance of the main
company, but every one being interested, they
went to work with a will, the women cooking, 
browning coffee and preparing every good thing
that our limited means would admit of. There
was no rest nor sleep till every thing was 
ready to start, and many a loving message
commenced in the midst of it looking till far
into the night to finish. It had been so long
since there had been any communication be-
tween us, and some of us were in doubt as to
our husbands being with them, as some, we
were told, had gone to California, and the feel-
ings that thrilled our hearts under such vari-
ous and trying circumstances can be better im-
agined than described; but we did not allow
our fears to stand in the way. Every one did 
all in their power, and it was something sur-
prising how quickly two wagons were loaded—
one for father and another for President Young
—with grain and vegetables, all of the latter
that could be taken, or whatever could be
mustered in the way of provisions. I had two
apples, which I packed up carefully with 
bread, cakes and various little parcels—one
apple for Horace and the other for Orson,
though this particular circumstance had
passed from my recollection till reading of it
in my husband's journal with other things re-
ceived from his father, via., Wm. Kimball—
he driving father's team, and George D. Grant
the President's. In a short letter, hastily
written by Sister E. B. Whitney, the present
Editor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, who acted
as scribe, Mother Whitney expresses herself
as follows:
	"We are all well, and hope and pray you
are, but we have neither flour nor meal, and
have not had any for several days, or we should

[Column 2]

have baked something to send you so we send
you a bag of sea biscuit and a cheese, with a
little coffee and sugar.	*	*	The
greatest comfort I have had in your absence
has been in getting alone to pray for you, that
you might be blessed, and I have always been
blest in so doing. I can say that almost my
very breath has been prayer for yon ever since
you left us, that you might return home in
safety, and nothing hinder or harm you.	*	*
May the Lord bless and preserve you and re-
turn you safe to us, is my constant prayer for
you—be faithful and diligent in prayer.
I will not write any news, for I shall want to
tell you that when you come. I must close, so
good bye.
		YOUR MOTHER. 
	On the morning of the 8th of October we
bade our brethren good bye with a prayer to
Him who had preserved us as within the hol-
low of His hand, to speed them on their way
to the relief of our fathers, husbands and
brethren, and let their lives be precious in His
sight, and strengthen them, and also their
teams, that they might not perish on the
plains, bnt be spared to meet us once more.


