TWENTIETH WARD PRIMARY.
	The Twentieth Ward Primary Association
held their fifth annual meeting April 21st,
1886, Prest. Emma Toone presiding. After
the usual opening exercises, the following pro-
gramme was carried out: Recitation, Hugh
Sainsberry; Recitation, Isabell Romney; Song,
Irene Daynes; Recitation, Elliot Airnet; Reci-
tation, entitled, "Order Rule," by the Associa-
tion; Duet, Mary Smellie and Olive Simmons;
Essay, "Punctuality," Lizzie Prichard; Recita-
tion by four small boys; Song, Ettie Calder;
Dialogue, Levi and Willie Richards; Recita-
tion, Katie Sansome; Duet, Ida and Lennie
Savage; Reading, Edgar Nelsen; Essay, on
"Baptism," by Annie Airnet; Song, Rose
Romney; Dialogue, George Ottinger, Ralph
Cutler and Ellen Hilton; Recitation, Pauline
Held; Organ Solo, Bell May; Recitation, by a
number of small boys and girls; Recitation,
Alice Evans; Questions were then asked by
Miss Alice Phillips and answered by the child-
ren, Song, by the Association. Brief remarks
were then made by Sister Ellen Clawson, Bro.
Dunbar, Sister Presendia Kimball, Bro.
George Romney and Sister Howard. Duet,
by Alice Clowes and Eva Ellis.
	Bro. C. R. Savage said, "I want to offer some
prizes next year; one for the best writing of
any little boy or girl in the meeting, one for
the best drawing and one for the best needle
work. I pray God to bless Sister Toone, all
who assist her, and you little children."
	Sister Wells, Prest. 13th Ward Primary,
and Bros. Richards, Sansome, Nelsen, May,
George Romney, Jr., and Charles Wright ex-
pressed themselves as being highly pleased
with the good order. The last two named
gentlemen had formerly been members of the
Association, and testified to the good they had
derived from attending the meetings.
	Sister Davis, Prest. of 21st Ward Primary,
related an instance showing how to be truly
happy.
	Meeting adjourned for one year. After the
closing hymn, Bro. C. R. Savage pronounced
the benediction, and refreshments were passed
round.
	In the evening the parents and a few of the
friends of the children assembled in the school-
house and had a sociable time together. Af-
ter singing and prayer, the following pro-
gramme was rendered: Speech, Bro. Dunbar;
Song, Miss May Romney; Reading, D. R.
Lyon; Song, John James; Remarks, Sister Toone;
Address, Bro. Geo. Romney; Remarks, O. Sharp.

[Column 2]

Refreshments were then passed round, and
general conversation ensued. Song, Miss
Fannie Savage; Speech, C. R. Savage; Remarks,
Bro. Puzey; Song, Peter Elliot; Recitation,
Geo. Romney; Song, Samuel Allen; Recitation,
C. W. Stayner; Organ Solo; J. J. Daynes;
Speech, Wm. Eddington.
