	UTAH PENITENTIARY,  May 24, 1886.
To His Excellency, Caleb W. West, Governor of
Utah:
	Sir:—On the 13th instant you honored the in-
mates of the Penitentiary with a visit, and offered
to intercede for the pardon of all those enduring
imprisonment on conviction under the Edmunds
law, if they would but promise obedience to it in
the future, as interpreted by the courts. Grati-
tude for the interest manifested in our behalf
claims from us a reply. We trust, however, that
this will not be construed into defiance, as our
silence already has been. We have no desire to
occupy a defiant attitude towards the Government.
or to be in conflict with the Nation's laws. We
have never been even accused of violating any
other law than the one under which we were con-
victed, and that was enacted purposely to oppose
a tenet of our religion.
	We conscientiously believe in the doctrine of
plural marriage, and have practiced it from a 
firm conviction of its being a divine requirement.
	Of the forty-nine Elders of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints now imprisoned
in the penitentiary for alleged violation of the 
Edmunds Law, all but four had plural wives from
its passage to 35 years prior to its passage. We
were united to our wives for time and all eternity
by the most sacred covenants, and in many in-
stances numerous children have been born as a
a result of our union, who are endeared to us by
the strongest paternal ties. 
	What the promise asked of us implied you de-
clined to explain, just as the courts have done
when appeals have been made to them for an ex-
plicit and permanent definition of what must be
done to comply with the law.
	The rulings of the courts under this law have
been too varied and conflicting, heretofore, for us
to know what may be the future interpretations.
	The simple status of plural marriage is now
made, under the law, material evidence in secur-
ing conviction for unlawful cohabitation, thus, in-
dependent of our act, ruthlessly trespassing upon
the sacred domain of our religious belief.
	So far as compliance with your proposition re-
quires the sacrifice of honor and manhood, the
repudiation of our wives and children the viola-
tion of sacred covenants, heaven forbid that we
should be guilty of such perfidy: perpetual im-
prisonment, with which we are threatened, or even
death itself, would be preferable.
	Our wives desire no separation from us, and
were we to comply with your request, they would
regard our action as most cruel, inhuman and
and monstrous, our children would blush with
shame, and we should deserve the scorn and con
[---] of all [---] and honorable [---]

[Column 2]

	The proposition you made, though prompted
doubtless by a kind feeling, was not new, for we
could all have avoided imprisonment by making
the same promise to the courts; in fact, the pen-
alties we are now enduring are for declining to so
promise rather than for acts committed in the
past. Had you offered us unconditional amnesty;
dearly as we prize the great boon of liberty,
it would  have been gladly accepted; but,
we cannot afford to obtain it by proving untrue to
our conscience, our religion and our God.
	As loyal citizens of this great Republic, whose
Constitution we revere, we not only ask for, but
claim, our rights as freemen and, it from neither
local or national authority we are to recieve equity
and mercy, we will make our appeal to the Great
Arbitrer of all human interests, who in due time
will grant us the justice hitherto denied.
	That you may, as the Governor of our import-
ant but afflicted Territory, aid us in securing
every right to which loyal citizens are entitled,
and find happiness in so doing we will ever pray.

