EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of the Salt Lake Stake will be held on Friday,
June 25th, in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. It is
expected there will be a verbal report from each
Society in the Stake, either from the President, 
her counselor, or some other officer.
	FROM Mrs. Sarah Sears, eleventh Ward, we
have received a large and handsome bouquet of
choice flowers, which came soon after our arrival
in the city, and for which we were deeply grateful.
There is nothing more expressive of sentiment
and affection than these silent messengers, that
are so beautiful to the eye, and so grateful to the
sense in the sweet fragrance they bring. What
would the earth he if it were not for the flowers?
The cultivation of them gives one a touch of
kindliness and delicacy, for they require the most
perfect care and constant attention. Mrs. Sears
has a charming variety, and her success with
plants, vines and shrubbery is no doubt owing to
the thought and tender care bestowed, and they
have repaid her well.
	TO MRS. M.O. KELTING, of San Bernardino,
we wish to express grateful acknowledgements for
a box of beautiful flowers received during our ab-
sence in mid winter, and most fully appreciated
by the girls, though mother was not at home.
Orange blossoms and roses at a time when the 
earth was mantled with snow came like blessed
harbingers of the happy future, and brought
sweet thoughts and tender memories to cheer the
hearts of all. The sentiment which came as a 
sort of introduction or tie between giver and re-
ceiver, was beautifully suggestive.
	"If but a pure drink of water is given in love
and sympathy it may prove a true link in the chain
of our union. The good Giver will take care of
his own children. Yours in faith as pure as the
contents of this can.—M. O. K.
	ANOTHER Home Book has been printed and
issued here, that is suitable for the libraries of
our young people's associations. The Author is
Elder John Nicholson, and he wrote the book
during his imprisonment in the Utah Penitentiary.
The story is "The Martyrdom of Joseph Stand-
ing," and is perfectly true. The details were re-
lated to the writer by Rudger Clawson, and are
extremely thrilling and pathetic, and should be
perused by all the youth of Zion. Beside the narra-
tive, the book contains a graphic description of
the Utah Penitentiary enclosure and buildings,
its management and prison fare; also a brief
sketch of each of the brethren who have been in-
carcerated there for conscience sake, or because
they have practically accepted the principle of
plural marriage, and believe it to be a divine
theory. The "Conclusion" by the author is very 
finely written and very impressive, and cannot fail
to have an effect upon any one who will read it.
	THE Deseret University commencement exer-
 cises were held at the new University building,
May 27th. The Chancellor and Regents occupied
the platform with the Professors and His Excellen-
cy, Governor West. Prof. Weighe led the
orchestra, which discoursed sweet and select
music. First of the programme, Wm. Allison, of
Coalville, delievered the Valedictory; next, an ad-
dress by Dr. J. R. Park, Principal of the institu-
tion, to the Normal graduates; then a song by
Mrs. M. F. Bassett—"Once Again"—one of her
best efforts. The second part of the programme
opened with an essay by B. F. Howells, "Influ-
ence of Passion." T. D. Lewis read an essay on
Socrates. Prof. Park addressed the graduates in

[Column 2]

the Scientific Course; they were the first to re-
ceive the degree of Bachelor of Science in the
history of the University. After this, excellent
music by the orchestra, then an address by
Chancellor O. F. Whitney. Governor West
made a brief extempore speech. The entire pro-
gramme was an excellent one, and there was a
great deal of applause. The Iniversity singing
class rendered a fine serenade, and Regent Stewart
pronounced the benediction. Dr. Park, in his
address, gave a concise history of the Deseret
University—establishment, growth and progress,
which we intend to publish; we shall also publish
the addresses of the Chancellor and speech of
Governor West.


[Column 1]

