	BLOOMINGTON.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A few lines from the Y. L. M. I. A. of Bear
Lake Stake will be welcome, no doubt, know-
ing your paper to be an able supporter and re-
presentative of woman's rights and privileges,
as we understand in the fullest and most com-
plete sense of the word.
	There are at this date eleven organizations in
active operation, presided over by Mrs. N. G.
Pugmire, a daughter of the late Charles C.
Rich, who, by her untiring efforts and unflinch-
ing energy to advance the interests of the
young people of this Stake, has won the love
and confidence of all with whom associated.
Her watchword has ever been "come" to all,
and thus her influence has been felt rallying
to the front. There are enrolled 347 members,
with a fair average attendance. We have
ninety-nine volumes of good reading matter,
costing $121. Our Stake receipts amount to
$377.10; disbursements. $280.69, $230.59 of
the amount was donated to the Logan Temple.
We have a stake paper, entitled, "The Literary
Garland," in which each association is repre-
sented in our meetings of Literary Exercises,
held annually.
	Spiritually we are feeling well, although
somewhat isolated, and deprived of the associa-
tions and instructions that they enjoy down in
the other valleys that are more easy of access.
We could but think, when reading the farcical
termination of the Snow Case, before the Su-
preme Court of the United States, in regard to
the infamous rulings of the Utah Court, that
it was in keeping with the general treatment
of the Saints by this boasted grand republic.
But all is well, for God lives, and he will bring
them and the nation, who so persistantly
fight against Him, to the punishment they
merit, and whether it be sooner or later it mat-
ters not to us, as long as we do our duty, and
keep sacred the covenants we have made.
	Last August we were favored with a visit
from Sisters M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor and S.
M. Kimball. We hope to see them again ere
long, for they brought with them words of
cheer and comfort, which built us up, and we
felt to thank God that we were associated with
so noble a band of sisters, and from the depth
of our hearts we say, "God bless them; may He
be merciful to them and lengthen out their
days, that they may for many years to come
continue the noble labors they are now en-
gaged in."
	Politically, the horizon looks dark, and, as you
are aware, we are almost helpless, owing to
that imfamous test oath, passed at the setting
of the last Idaho Legislature, depriving all
who have certain religious convictions of the
privilege of casting a vote.
	Coun. Alice M. Rich is still suffering from
acute rheumatism, and although afflicted now
over a year, and unable to travel in the inter-
est of the Stake, as in the past, she feels patient
and resigned, and willing to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in this affliction as in other
things. I see by the last Deseret News that
you have reached home again, after an absence
of several months, in the interests of the down-
trodden women of Utah.
	L. M. HART, Stake Sec.

