VISIT TO THE PENITENTIARY. 

	Blessed are the peace-makers, for they shall be called
the children of God. 

	How forcibly these words came to my mind as I 
read of Governor West's visit to the penitentiary. 
He was so sincere and energetic in his attempt to 
make peace between the two parties known as 
Latter-day Saints and Gentiles, or in other words
our people and the Federal officials. 
	Governor West has given his attention to the
laws of his country, and perhaps to that alone. 
Is he blind to the weakness of human nature, and 
the frailty of man when left to himself, without
the aid and inspiration of an all wise Providence, 
who sent His Son with laws to educate and pre-
pare all who will accept His message to come
again into His presence? 
	For twenty-four years I looked at the subject as
Governor West does.	* 	* Since that 
time I have resolved to accept the message sent
us to prepare for a reign of peace, taking the 
laws of Jesus Christ for my guidance, which do 
not in any way conflict with the Constitution and
Declaration of Independence we all love so dear-
ly. It is now forty-four years since I began to 
apply my mind to this rule of action. The first
was like learning the alphabet, and placing
the letters together to make words; the next, our
Savior's law, was like the study of mathematics. 
If you enjoy this study and obtain the spirit of its
author, your mind will become enlarged by it, you
will develop the germ of the Diety, which all pos-
sess to a greater or less extent; then you find you
can solve and understand the designs of our
Father as readily as you can solve the problems of 
arithmetic. Each one who knows the rule can
solve and understand the same alike, if in posses-
sion of the same spirit of truth and intelligence. 
	The joy and satisfaction this gives every lover 
of true principle is incalculable, because of its
divinity. We feel that our course is upward and
onward, and that this theory, practically developed, 
will bring us again into the presence of our Elder
Brother, the Savior of the world, who said in holy
writ, "If you keep my Father's laws, you shall be 
heirs and joint heirs with me."
	How awkward should we feel to be placed in 

[Column 2]
this position, without the same light and intelli-
gence which He, the Savior, has in His posses-
sion. Accordingly, we must apply our minds to 
the same rule of action to obtain the same result. 
It would be childish to suppose anything else; yes, 
worse than children, for they in their purity are
fit for the kingdom of God. 
	How could we, after becoming acquainted with
these laws, and knowing the result of the same, 
lay them aside and do as Judge Zane told Brother
Smith he must—"serve the finite before the Infi-
nite." We serve the Infinite when we do good to 
the finite, for it is written, "He who says he loves
God and hates his brother, is a liar and the truth
is not in him."
	We feel that we are serving God in every good
act we perform, and that His smile is resting upon 
us in approval; we also feel, when we have an eye
single to His glory, that we have the light and
intelligence of His Holy Spirit to guide all our
efforts. With this faith and assurance how could
we give up our religion and again accept the
vague systems of Christendom, who ignore and 
reject so much light and intelligence? No, never!
death itself would be preferable to such a gloomy
picture as this. 
	In my opinion Governor West would do a work
to his saticfaction, and also to all others concerned, 
if he could reconcile the people to observe and
obey Christ's sermon on the Mount, given by 
Jesus, the Savior of the world, which, when kept
in all sincerity of heart, will produce a reign of 
peace on the earth. Let us look at this subject in
the light of reason and common sense, and we 
will not fail to see this is a correct idea. 
								M. E. K.
Logan, May 21st, 1886.


