EDITOR DESERET NEWS:	 
	DEAR SIR—Something over twelve years ago,
by my solicitation, Brother William Clayton,
at that time and for many years Territorial
Auditor, wrote a brief history of facts which
came undnr his observation relative to the
writing of the Revelation on Celestial Marri-
age, as now found in section 132, Doctrine
and Covenants, page 463, and first published
to the world in 1852,at a general conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, held in Salt Lake City. I now for-
ward this document to you for publication,
believing that the perusal of it will prove in-
teresting to your numerous readers just at this
present juncture, when the subject seems to be

[Column 2]
the all absorbing topic with respect to the
Latter-day Saints, and “Mormonism” in gen-
eral. It may prove a stumbling block to
some,but it will throw light upon many points
heretofore obscure, and but little understood
by many, which I trust will prove not only in-
teresting but instructive and profitable. It
will at least prove a guide to all, in connection
with the abundant and incontrovertible evi-
dence already had on this point to the identity
of its author, under God, for which, all who
love the truth, cannot but feel thankful. It
must be borne in mind that this great and
glorious principle was first revealed to Joseph
Smith in 1831—or 1832 (I have not the exact
date with me,) but being forbidden to make it
public, or to teach it as a doctrine of the Gos-
pel, at that time he confided the facts to only
a very few of his most intimate associates.
Among them were Oliver Cowdery and Ly-
man E. Johnson, the latter confiding the fact
to his traveling companion Elder Orson Pratt,
in the year 1832. (See O. Pratts’ testimony.) 
And this great principle remained concealed
in the bosoms of the Prophet Joseph and the
few to whom he revealed it, until he was com-
manded, about 1842, to instruct the leading
members of the Priesthood, and those who
were most faithful and intelligent, and best
prepared to receive, it in relation thereto, at
which time, and subsequently until his
martyrdom, the subject, in connection with the
great principles of baptism, redemption and
sealings for the dead became the great themes
of his life, and, as the late Prest. Geo. A.
Smith repeatedly said to me and others, “The
Prophet seemed irresistibly moved by the
power of God to establish that principle, not
only in theory, in the hearts and minds of
his brethren. but in practice also!” he himself
having led the way. While this doctrine was
thus being taught by the Prophet to those
whom he could trust—those who had faith,
righteousness and integrity, to believe and ac-
cept it, with all its consequences, (which are no
trifling things) it remained an “unwritten law”
and commandment of the Almighty to the
faithful only of His Saints, designed to be en-
larged as intelligence and fidelity to the laws
of God increased; until the 12th day of July,
1843, when a portion of the revelation was writ-
ten in the manner, and (at that time) for the
purpose set forth in the statement of Elder
Clayton’s now submitted to the world, and as 
indicated in the revelation itself, as follows, v.
66: “And now,as pertaining to this law, verily,
verily I say unto you, I will reveal more unto
you hereafter. therefore let this suffice for the
present.”
	Let all the Latter-day Saints know that
Joseph Smith, the martyred Prophet, is re-
sponsible to God and the world for this doc-
trine, and let every soul know that he and his
brother Hyrum did practice the doctrine, in
their lifetime, and until their death, notwith-
standing their seeming denials as published in
the Times and Seasons and which are so fer-
vently relied upon as evidence against the fact
by a certain class of anti-polygamists. Those
denials can be explained, and have been, and
while they are true in the sense, and for the
purpose for which they were designed,they are
not denials of plural or celestial marriage as
taught by Joseph Smith and practiced at the
time by both of  them, and many others in
prominent standing in the Church. These
seeming denials themselves are specific proofs


[Column 1]
of the existence of the true coin, the counter-
feit of which they denounced.
	Let every Saint know by unimpeachable
testimony, as well as by the spirit of inspira-
tion to which each Saint is entitled, that God
Almighty revealed this doctrine to Joseph the
martyr, and that under God he was and is the
the founder, by precept and example, of the
same in the Church.
	Praying God to bless this testimony to the
comforting of the Saints and the confusion of
their enemies, I have the heartfelt pleasure to
remain eternally yours for the truth, "if it
wake the dead."
