	HOME AGAIN.

	At last, after an absence of some months,
traveling hither and thither, up and down, visiting
scenes of interest and places specially dear on ac-
count of childhood's associations, clasping the
hands of those of our own kindred from whom
we had been many long years separated, and so-
journing sometimes temporarily among strangers,
it is partiularly pleasant to be at home once more
among the Saints, and to meet the kindly and
cordial welcome from familiar friends and acquaint-
ances, in addition to the embraces of the loved
ones of our own household. The city, too, is in
its most beautiful attire, and the air is fragrant
with the perfume of roses and honeysuckle, and
everything seems to denote happiness and com-
fort, and nature rejoices upon her thousand hills
and in her peaceful vales. Zion is indeed beauti-
ful, as we have often described it to those we met
while away, and such a delightful feeling as one
has in one's own mountain home and among the
Saints—so different to that which a "Mormon"
has to meet in mingling with the world outside,
who are so filled with prejudice and bitterness to-
wards those who have accepted the doctrine of
celestial marriage. The present crusade against
this people has had its influence in embittering
many who were before prejudiced, and the an-
[---]gonism to the doctrines in which we believe and
[---]hich this people have made many sacrifices,
The [---] increased during the last seven years.
and ye[---]er of the nation seems to be aroused,
who, bec[---] are many honest thinking people,
Mormonism [---] of the persecution waged against
are making in[---] anxious to know tht truth, and
parent to the wo[---] s, below the surface, that is ap-
Gospel is being tat[---] In this way, unwittingly, the
to those, who, perha[---] and the opportunity given
any inquiry to know co[---]might never have made
themselves and to decidening the doctrines for
or against.	heir own minds for
	We met people often that
"Mormon" woman, and who hd never seen a
any plural wife could be either c[---]no idea that
fined. However, altogether, journe[---]ated or re-
as we did, there was seldom anything u[-] about
except occasionally the bitterness manife[-]asant
individuals. One thing we can say, which mby
be astonishing, and that is the people w[-]
treated us best and seemed to interest themselves
most in learning of our faith and practice were
those of the finest culture and highest attainments
educational and social.
	Newspaper reporters make capital out of Mor-
mons: the situation at present is a fertile subject,
and the more extravagant the articles the better
they take with the masses, who swallow down
any scribble if it is sensational, no matter how
highly colored or far from the reality it may be.
There is something new in this generation, at
least, when a man marries women and makes
them honorable wives, and provides for his chil-
dren instead of keeping them secretly, and dis-

[Column 2]
owning his own offspring, as is so often done in
the world,. And when women are so unselfish
and self-sacrificing as to wish for other sister-
women to have the same rights and privileges they
themselves enjoy, only such a state of things is
scarcely to be credited by the women of the
world, who fancy they possess the unqualified
affection of the husband and cannot for a moment
countenance the idea of any other women hav-
ing part or lot in either the affection or attention
of the man, who is in their estimation at least,
wholly and solely their very own.
	Knowing as society women must do the many
serious evils that exist, and that mar the peace
and happiness of many a household, and indeed
break up and often utterly destroy domestic
tranquility therein, yet these very women who
realize the situation have no idea of helping by
the sacrific of their own selfishness to aid in
solving the great social problems that agitate the
public mind, and that cannot, nor never will be
remedied without woman's actualy assistance. No
great effort for the higher advancement of the
human family can ever be permanent without
woman as well as man taking part in the earnest
endeavor. And for the sake of so great a good
the equality of all women to the rights of home
and maternity, may not women of large hearts
and generous souls be willing to endure the scorn
and ridicule, that is sure to follow the introduc-
tion of any new and strange theory, which con-
flicts with the established traditions and customs
of the country. There are a thousand objections
brought forward to prove the position taken by
the outside world that monogamy is the natural
relation of men and women, and however strong
the testimony of an individual may be to prove
the doctrine of a plurality of wives, when argu-
ment fails on the side of monogamy "the law of
the land" and the "sixty millions of people who
have made up their minds," is brought forward
as the climax, and that is thought to be the end
of all controversy. There is this difficulty, which
seems apparent through all, a sort of vague fear
lest there might be something in it, and therefore
those who are puzzled about the matter want to
convince themselves that there is no need for
alarm, and indeed that there is nothing in it.
Then why trouble about the matter at all, if it is
so weak it has no strong props to uphold it, and
if there is nothing anywhere to substantiate such
strange doctrines, they will very soon be forgotton
and sink into oblivion. But this very fear, or
dread, or horror, that it might be true, is what
many of those who are so furious in denouncing
it are greatly afraid of. It is like the lady who,
having been among this people sometime, and
having seen and heard a great deal of doctrines
and practices, was greatly afraid there was
something which demanded obedience to princi-
ple in the "Mormon" faith, and said "I have to put
my "Mormon" books in the very bottom of my
trunk, and I dare not read them lest I should be
converted!" And lest they should actually ac-
cept a faith so intensely obnoxious to the
prejudices and traditions of the world, they de-
nounce it violently and circulate every sensational
report that has ever been sent abroad, and thus
try and pacify their own consciences and justify,
the selfish course they pursue. 
	There are many progressive thinking women
w[-] advocate reform in the connubial relation,
who e plainly that there is imperative need of
a radi[---] change, and advocate that woman be
more the [-]istress of her individual self—with
time at her [---]osal of improvement and advance-
ment in the g[---]at questions of the age and the
hour, but do not d will not see that with the op-
portunities given in [-]lural marriage she may not
only fulfill the first geat commandment, fill the
measure of her creatio[-] and satisfy the natural
desire for motherhood, but [-]ithal have that larger
freedom from the daily and continuous routin

[Column 3]
that is often wearisome and a barrier in the way
of woman's intellectual culture. There are many
good physiological reasons why a plurality of
wives would be elevating to society if practised
according to the laws of purity and chastity; but
it must be from exalted motives, and consequent-
ly only those who are willing to sacrifice for the
sake of a noble purpose are ever likely to accept
it as a rule of life. Therefore, there is little fear
of its being wide spread in the United States, and
the great law makers of the nation have samll need
of puzzling their brains to obstruct its operations,
for when forty years have passed since the Revela-
tion was given, and so few, comparatively, of the
Latter-day Saints have been willing to enter into
it with all its conditions and consequences, it
seems absurd in the extreme to suppose it will
supplant monogamy.
	Mrs. Angie F. Newman, the agitator for an In-
dustrial School in Utah, and who recently ap-
peared before the Senate Committee on Education
and Labor, and made something of a sensation by
her eloquence, is the woman who sometime ago,
it will be remembered, lectured in Cincinnati on
the "Mormon" question, making the most absurd
statements. The Cincinnati Enquirer, containing
notes from her lecture taken by the reporter for
that paper, was sent to the writer at the time, and
in an editorial in the EXPONENT, published imme-
diately after, we quoted her own words as pub-
lished in the Cincinnati papers forwarded to us.
Some comments made upon the subject at the
time by a Gentile lady in that city were also used
in the same paper, and Mrs. Newman was con-
fronted with these facts when she made her first
call at this office in 1884; also with the articles
written by young women, giving their views upon
plural marriage, and some practical experiences
in their own homes, and indignantly protest-
ing against any interference with their
domestic relations. Mrs. Newman's quotation
from the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in the Committee
Room shows how she misrepresents. The clip-
pings sent in a letter to us in Nov. 1883 were
from the Commercial Gazette as well as the Cin-
cinnati Enquirer, and accompanied by a letter as
before stated, it was from this letter she quoted,
and tries to palm the whole report off on to a
"Mormon" scribe. Does the "Commercial Ga-
zette" or "Cincinnati Enquirer" keep a "Mor-
mon" reporter to take notes at Anti-"Mormon"
lectures? We presume not. That is far-fetched,
but there are Gentile ladies who have listened to
Anti-"Mormon" lecturers and felt disgusted,
knowing the unfaithfulness of many men in the
"marriage relation," and the depths of bitterness
in the hearts of the wives of such men. But Mrs.
Newman and other women who quote from their
own lectures and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
should be careful to do it correctly, and not blame
"Mormon" reporters or "Mormon" Editors for
sentiments uttered by those who sat and heard
them and have no interest whatever in making
mis-statements.
	We are very sorry for Mrs. Newman that she
should use her talents to injure and oppress those
who have sought all the day long to keep the
commandments of God and obey the Golden rule,
because she will have to account for the talents
given her, and to whom much is given, from him
much will be required. There are plenty of
women in the world who need help and assistance
but "Mormon" women are very independent, and
will take care of their own without assistance
from the Home Missionary Society, and the mem-
bers of Congress know pretty well that the
women of Utah who helped to settle and beautify
the desert have taught their children to be self-
reliant, and they do not need Mrs. Newman to
speak in their behalf. If Mrs. Sara Andrews
Spencer could not, with all ehr impresive elo-
quence and strong arguments, induce Congress to
appropriate mo[-]ey to establish such a house right


in the District of Columbia it is not at all likely
Congress will make such a liberal appropriation
r the Territory of Utah.


5
