Isabel Barton Callister Called to General Board Lillie C. Adams President, Emigration Stake Relief Society ~ ISABEL BARTON CALLISTER HERE are four favorable factors that tend toward the perfection of human personality. They are: a noble heritage, a? rich environment, self-effort, and a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. These four qualifications are possessed by Isabel Barton Callister. With these important prerequisites she has made daily application of them through her diligence and obedience to all the gospel principles. Prophets have said that we should foster a love for religion, culture, and refinement, and we should develop faith, Page 368 save souls, and study and teach by precept and example the gospel of Jesus Christ. Isabel has followed this plan. Her maternal grandfather, Francis Armstrong, while on his way to California seeking gold, visited in Salt Lake City for a short time. He heard the gospel of Jesus Christ and decided that this spiritual message was greater than gold a real "Pearl of Great Price." With the help of his noble wife, Isabel Siddoway Armstrong, a handcart pioneer, he instilled in his children a desire to acquire a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Isaac Barton, the paternal grandfather, was bishop of the Nineteenth Ward for twenty years. Isabel has had a rich environment in her home life, as her mother and father were always interested in the worthwhile things of life. She was born in Salt Lake City, July 23, 1908, a daughter of Isaac R. And Sarah Armstrong Barton. Realizing that faith and works are necessary, she has pursued persistently not only her Church work but also has won distinction scholastically. She attended L. D: S. University and graduated, in 1926, as valedictorian of the class. Later, she attended the University of Utah and graduated in 1930 with an A. B. Degree, majoring in Latin. At the University, she was a member of the honorary fraternities, ISABEL BARTON CALLISTER Phi Kappa Phi, Beehive Club, and Mortar Board. On September 27, 1930, she married Louis H. Callister, an attorney in Salt Lake City, and a former member of the bishopric of the Eleventh Ward. They have two children, Louis Jr., eleven, and Sharee, nine. Isabel is a devoted member of the Church and has served in the Sunday School as a teacher. She has a strong testimony of the gospel and has followed the admonition of the apostle Peter:... Add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; 369 And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; And to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity. For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Crist (II Peter 1:5-8). Isabel Callister is a member of the University Ward, Emigration Stake. Her outstanding scholastic attainments, combined with her knowledge of the gospel and her devotion to the work of the Church, will make her a valuable addition to the General Board. She was appointed to her new position May 1, 1946.