JEWEL BOX Jessie Miller Robinson No gems I crave I own Larkspurs of sapphire-blue, Fuchsias dropping rubies, Poppies of amber hue. Phlox, like amethysts, Pearl-daisies on the grass, Threaded with emerald, As down the path I pass. Faust's box of precious gems Could hold no lure for me? Flowers are lovelier Than stones of luxury. Contest Announcements?1946 HE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of the contests in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1946. Three prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize 2 $20 Second prize............---- $15 Third prize.................. $10 Prize poems will be published in the January 1947 issue of ThePrize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board, and employees of the Relief Society General Board. Z. Only one poem may. Be submitted by each contestant. Page 370 3- It is suggested that the subject matter of the poems be based upon the Utah Centennial theme or some other aspect of our pioneer heritage, however poems on other themes will be accepted; and the entries will be judged upon their literary merit and not upon the selection of subject matter. 4. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if - possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 5. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem. 7. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 8. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work. B. That it has never been published. C. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other persons with a view to publication., d. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.. A writer who has received the first O CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems select- 371 ed for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. 11. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1946. 12. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Relief Society Short Story Contest THE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1946 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1946. Three prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize................-.$35 Second prize................$25 Third prize..................$15 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of Thefor 1947. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. For the 1946 short story contest (the prize-winning stories of which will be published in 1947), it is suggested that the subject matter might deal with a Utah Centennial theme, or with a theme inspired by the historical events associated with this occasion. Other themes may be used, however, and the prize-winning stories will be selected for their literary merit, and not for the subject matter used. 4. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 5. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) b. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 372 7. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two successive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1946. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah.