Choosing Roses for the Home Garden Hazel D. Moyle In the time of roses Hope thou, weary heart: Spring a balm discloses For the keenest smart. Though thy grief o'ercome thee Through the winter's gloom, Thou shall thrust it from thee When the roses bloom. Anonymous IN every age since the days of Isaiah, poets have sung of the beauty of the rose, the most loved flower of all mankind. It has been a source of inspiration in song and in story since the beginning of time. Kings and queens have paid court to its charms and have willingly bent the knee to cultivate its beauty, while it has been treasured in the gardens of the humble and poor wherever flowers have been cultivated all down the centuries. Rose lovers of today should give thanks that we are privileged to live in the greatest age of rose growing ever known to man. Not only do we enjoy roses during the month of June, the traditional rose month, but modern hybridization has extended the rose-blooming season to continue throughout the entire growing year. Until recently, roses bloomed only in June, with perhaps an occasional later bloom, but the modem rose garden produces roses during every month from May until frosts come to stop all blooming. We also have more kinds and Page 388 varieties than were ever dreamed of by rose lovers of former ages. The most distant lands have been combed by plant hunters to enrich our gardens, but by far the most important modern rose development has been the advent of the everblooming hybrid tea rose which is now so universally grown as to almost crowd other types out of our gardens. We must give credit for this new type of rose (which has made rose growing so popular in almost every back-yard garden) to a famous woman of history, none other than the Empress Josephine, wife of Napoleon the Conquerer. Josephine occupied, perhaps, the highest place ever graced by any woman when she reigned for a short time as empress of a good part of the world. But this exalted position did not prevent her from being an ardent and practical gardener and botanist. The rose was her favorite flower and it was her greatest joy to steal away from the demanding formality of official life to her country home, Malmaison, where she practiced the gentle art of growing roses. History records that, so ardent was Josephine's love of gardening, she even incurred the disapproval of her royal lord and master, Napoleon, who protested at her garden extravagances, a situation not unfamiliar to many a common, back-yard gardener of today. CHOOSING ROSES FOR THE HOME GARDEN It was Josephine's hope to assemble a plant of every known rose in her garden, and she commissioned all botanists, plant hunters, travelers, and even Napoleon's great military expeditions, to bring back new kinds of roses from foreign 389 lands far and wide. At length, she secured 250 different kinds, which included practically all known species and varieties of that day. But, like every true gardener, Josephine was not content with this accomplishment, and she constantly Photograph Courtesy of Jackson and Perkins Company, Newark, New York HYBRID TEA ROSE "MANDALAY" 390 encouraged botanists and nurserymen to practice the then new art of hybridization, in order to create still other improved rose varieties. Under her patronage, many new roses were developed by this method, and it was during this colorful time that the custom of naming new roses began. Most of the new roses were named after the burly and rough generals of Napoleon's army, the popular heroes of that militant age. A few years later, another new rose came from China which bore small flowers not only in June, but in succeeding crops, month after month. This became known as the China Tea Rose. Rose hybridizers pollenized this everbloomer with other large-flowered June roses, and the result was the lovely La France rose, the first of all the hybrid tea roses. This important event occurred in the year 1867, and it ushered in our modern age of everblooming roses. Plant hybridizers of every country, including France, England, Ireland, Denmark, Germany, Spain ?not forgetting our own United States?all produced famous rose hybridizers who were constantly striving to create more and more lovely, better, bigger, and finer, everblooming roses. This world-wide interest accounts for the welter of strange and foreign names of our roses. We now have roses bearing the names of kings and queens, presidents, imperial potentates, actresses, duchesses, German frauen, and Spanish senoras, as well as plain Margaret McGredy?even little Dainty Bess, whoever she may be. Such a teeming multitude of strange names confronts any new convert to gardening, that many have been known to cry out with Shakespeare's Juliet, "What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet." cannot choose blindly from this confusing abundance of varieties, for we soon learn that roses are much like human beings; they have their individual faults and good qualities, their likes and dislikes, their queer traits and peculiar characteristics. We must grow them in order to know them well. Many an amiable-appearing rose turns out to be a stingy, poor bloomer, or perhaps one that tums an unpleasant purplish color when fully open; or it wilts down at the first warm hint of the sun. Many varieties actually attract the villainous rose beetle, while others are prone to mildew. Another bad fault is that of "balling" the buds in wet weather, so that they do not open, but remain a poor blob of unpleasantly limp petals. It behooves the ordinary home gardener to choose those roses of proven worth in the community, rather than the new varieties that are so enticingly offered, for many of these newcomers will prove disappointing. Let us name a few varieties that have won universal approval: Of red roses, we can safely select the variety Crimson Glory as perhaps the finest red rose of today. One might term this the perfect red rose, so rich is its color, so lovely its form, so generous and constant its bloom. It is universally acknowledged as "tops" in its class. But we must also name another older (and cheaper) red rose that CHOOSING ROSES FOR THE HOME GARDEN Photograph Courtesy of Jackson and Perkins Company, Newark New York HYBRID TEA ROSE "MARY MARGARET McBRIDE" is also near perfection, the variety Etoile de Holland. This, too, bears large blooms of clear, rich color and reliable blooming habit. "My love is like a red, red rose, that's newly sprung in June," sang Bobby Burns. At poems he would write to these modem blooms! Next we mention a rose that deserves to be in every garden because of its strong, sturdy nature, its beauty and prolific bloom ? the President Herbert Hoover. No other variety gives more for the space it occupies. Few roses come up to it in desirability, especially 392 "PRESIDENT HERBERT HOOVER" during the fall months when its blooms of warm pink, overcast with sunset tones, develop to their fullest beauty. For years this rose has been voted as the favorite variety in the yearly rose poll taken by the Utah Rose Society, only last season having the red Crimson Glory tie with it for first place. The last named, together with the two Radiance roses, the pink and the red, should be grown by all gardeners living in colder sections of the country, for these are among the hardiest of all roses. Pink roses are a favorite of almost every rose lover, and there are many excellent ones of this color. Dame Edith Helen is a magnificent pink rose, but we must whisper that this is definitely a sparse bloomer and to be classed among the stingy ones. Yet when it does deign to bloom, it is well worth waiting for. Our own choice of all pink roses to date is the fairly new one called The Doctor, an amazing flower of dazzling size, sparkling color, and outstanding keeping qualities. Give this variety good care which means an occasional mulch of manure and plenty of moisture and it will reward you with great blooms of excellent substance that last almost twice as long as most other varieties, both in the garden and when cut. Fine perfume is another of its good qualities. Our second choice of pink varieties is Miss Rowena Thom, child of the sturdy Pink Radiance. This rose inherits its parent's hardiness, with blooms of a size to almost vie 'with The Doctor. Countess Vandal has won a high place as a flower of exquisite perfection and almost indescribable coloring, a warm yet delicate pink overlaid with yellow tones. This rose appears in lists of favorite varieties in all sections. Many rosarians name it as a favorite. Good yellow roses are not plentiful, but the variety Eclipse has won a sure place for its lovely buds and fine, clear, lively yellow color. Of the newer varieties, Mandalay is one of the best, an elegant and large rose of glowing, clear golden color. Max Krause is also very fine, an excellent yellow of sturdy habits. Make the acquaintance of these beautiful roses in your neighbor's and near-by gardens while they are blooming this summer and fall, and make your selection of varieties to plant next spring so that you, too, can have lovely roses to contribute beauty during the Centennial celebration, as well as all down the years to come. The 116th Annual General Conference Ramona W. Cannon The many thousands who listened to the 116th annual general conference of the Church, held on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, April 5th, 6th, and 7th, 1946, were comforted by the proceedings with a deep sense of spiritual peace and joy, with inspiration to nobler living, and with the renewal of a pure and simple faith in God, his work upon the earth, and his promises of continued and glorified existence after death. The two meetings held on Friday, the two on Saturday, and two on Sunday, as well as the priesthood meeting held Saturday night, were all broadcast over Radio Station KSL. Elder John A. Widtsoe gave the Church of the Air radio sermon on Sunday morning, "Faith Under the Atomic Bomb," and at 9:30 A. M. Sunday, the Tabernacle choir rendered its 873d consecutive national Sunday broadcast. The opening and closing prayers by mission presidents and stake leaders were particularly thoughtful and appealing, imploring aid for the meek and suffering of the earth, for the leaders of the nations, for those who guide the Church, and for all Latter-day Saints. At the two sessions on Friday, April 5th, the music was provided by the Relief Society Singing Mothers of the Salt Lake region, under the leadership of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, member of the Relief Society General Board. The selections rendered were very choice and beautifully executed, and were inspiring to hear. The Singing Mothers and the Relief Society organization received high praise from President George Albert Smith and other speakers. The music of the great organ touched the hearts and brought a tender mood to the congregation. It was magnificent to hear and to see the vast throngs (probably numbering a full 10,000 at each session in the Tabernacle) singing with spirit the familiar and beloved songs of Zion. President George Albert Smith, in his opening talk at the first session, made reference to the spirit that becomes a part of certain places and buildings. In referring to the Tabernacle, he said, "It was erected in the poverty of the people and no other place like it may be found in all the world. Often, when it is vacant, there is a spirit here that you will find in few places in the world. Many people have come here on a busy weekday as tourists, and as they have come under the shadow of this roof and looked through the building and have seen this great organ, with everything quiet, many of them have been moved to tears by the inspiration and influence they have found here." Much of President Smith's address was devoted to the theme of the closeness of God to his children. "What a comfort it is to Page 393 394 realize that there is no mistake about it, we are the children of our Father in heaven, that he does love us... That he does interest himself in our affairs. We are here as sons and daughters of the living God, trying to work our way through until we shall be worthy of an exaltation in the celestial kingdom. What a privilege it is!... I hope that we will come with a prayer in our hearts that those who address us may draw the inspiration from our Heavenly Father necessary to feed his flock." President Smith made a plea that the President of the United States, and those working with him, might live in such a way as to merit the guidance of God. He also expressed deep sympathy for the suffering people of Europe. In the priesthood meeting on Saturday evening, he spoke of the value of an individual testimony of the gospel, and marveled how people could lose their faith by substituting the philosophies of men for the revealed truth. "The philosophies of men... Will never lead anybody into eternal happiness, nor help them to find a place in the kingdom of our Heavenly Father," he declared. At the opening session of conference, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Read the financial report of the Church. Those listening were gratified by the growth of the Church as revealed in its financial matters, and rejoiced in the account of the welfare work accomplished, especially the sending of carloads of clothing and food to the suffering European saints. Saturday morning, President Clark in his address, stated that the only way to obtain relief from the sorrow, apprehension, and anxiety that overshadow all of us, is to have a firmly rooted testimony like that of Job: "Yet in my flesh shall I see God." He cited other great testimonies connected with the life of the Savior, such as those of Simeon, Anna, and Peter's great utterance recognizing Christ as the Son of the living God. The same kind of testimony, he stated, actuated the Prophet Joseph Smith and has actuated Church members up to the present day. Anyone desiring a testimony may, through prayer and living the commandments of God, obtain such a testimony through the ministration of the Holy Ghost. President Clark, at the priesthood meeting, called for a unity of the priesthood, stating that such unity "would wield an influence that would affect the course of world affairs. He read and briefly answered a list of ten heretical doctrines that are creeping into some Latter-day Saint circles and are destructive of faith. President David O. McKay spoke, on Saturday morning, on the forthcoming Centennial celebration of the coming of the pioneers to Utah, to be held May 15th to October 15th, 1947. He reported that, on account of the shortage of housing accommodations for tourists, the celebration will be principally by and for the people of Utah. Besides using the best that home talent can produce, it is proposed to bring to the State some outstanding educational and entertainment features, symphony orchestras, stars of stage and screen, a national eisteddfod, and sports events. President McKay asked that all citizens co-operate with the mayor and officers of Salt Lake City and other cities of the State in their efforts to reduce lawlessness and vice. He urged the beautifying of our surroundings. "Every man, woman, and child in the State should sense a responsibility to do something to make the State clean and attractive." He stated that the appearance of churches, seminaries, and other Church properties should be improved by suitable landscaping, by painting, and by effecting needed repairs, and that vacant lots should be cleared of weeds and debris. "Make Utah a rose garden by planting additional bushes in every yard; remove all dead trees from the landscape," President McKay also suggested. Speaking on the same subject? the Centennial Elder Stephen L Richards expressed the hope that Latter-day Saints would do their utmost to make this consecrated land "reflect here the minds of those noble men and women who left it as a heritage to us." A letter from Elder Ezra Taft Benson, who is presiding over the saints in Europe, was read Sunday afternoon by President George Albert Smith: Destruction, hunger, and anxiety are on every hand. Many of our saints are without home or country... In the midst of all this there is but one soul-satisfying refuge, the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. The faithful members of the Church face the future with courage undaunted. This is in great contrast to the melancholy, suicides, and discouragement all around them. Powerful testimonies to the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith were given by many of the speakers, who declared that an impostor cannot make history, nor wear the mantle of a prophet. Elder Albert E. Bowen drew a parallel between the iconoclastic writers of the present, who "debunk" George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, and those who approach the Prophet Joseph Smith, and even the Savior of the world, in the same fashion. He exposed the spurious nature of some documents strongly relied upon as furnishing support for certain assertions concerning the Prophet. President George Albert Smith stated that those who belittle the Prophet Joseph Smith "will be forgotten in the remains of mother earth and the odor of their infamy will ever be with them, but honor, majesty, and fidelity to God, exemplified by Joseph Smith and attached to his name, will never die." Among the other subjects stressed by speakers at this conference were the great need for missionaries to carry the gospel to all parts of the earth, and the necessity for Latter-day Saints to uphold the Constitution of this country which guarantees our freedom, bought at so dear a price by our forefathers.