[WomansExponent | Vol17 | 1888 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: NELLIE'S CHILD | Author: Unknown]

NELLIE'S CHILD 
We have brought one more dear Jennie,
	To share your quiet rest;
A habe, whose lips but yesterday 
	Were warm on its mother's breast.

But lo! the world's grey reaper,
	In the silent midnight came 
And folded the babe in his mantle;
	And tenderly breathed her name,

To the ever watchful angels,
	As one too fair and sweet,
To battle with earth's temptations,
	Too fragile its storms to meet.

So he hushed her to rest on his bosom,
	And folded the small white hands,
And kissed her lips, as her spirit passed 
	To the waiting angel bands.

Oh! Weep for the mother's anguish,
	Weep, weep, for the father's pain;
As he laid the beautiful lifeless clay, 
	In her outstreched arms again. 
		
For the sounds of that sobbing midnight,
	Though years may come and go,
Will never pass from that darkened home,
	Or the hearts that loved her so. 

No pearl in its case of velvet,
	No flower, just snatched away 
From the parent vine, was ever so fair,
	As the babe we mourn to-day.

So we brought her to you, dear Jennie,
	To the silent city that lies 
Out under the sunlit heavens,
	Out under the starry skies.
		
With its still white stones, like fingers,
	Pointing ever one untrod way,
Pointing up, through the western shadows.
	Pointing up, through the dawn-light grey.

Where, under the arch of the rainbow,
	And the pitiful falling rain,
We laid you to rest from labor,
	We hid you away from pain.

When we covered you up with blessings 
	For the deeds that your hands had done,
And hallowed your last sweet slumber,
	With the love that your life had won. 

And twice, since we brought you hither,
	With sorrowful hearts and sore,
We have come to thy sacred dwelling,
	And stood by an open door.

Once with your own loved child, and now,
	With the babe of your eldest born;
And the doors are closed to be ope'd no more,
	Till the last great, glorious morn.

So we leave them with you, dear Jennie,
	In the silent city, that lies
Out under the starry heavens,
	Out under the sunlit skies,

With the still white fingers pointing,
	From the dust that our teet hath trod,
To the broad blue path that leadeth,
	To the home of your rest with God.
								MILLICENT.
Zenos, A. I. April, 1889.


[Column 1]
