[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Fiction | Title: The Ring of Strength Second Prize Story Alice Morrey Bailey]
strength in the scriptures, and sustenance for the soul, satisfaction for the heart.
There is hope for a happier day, to which the anxious soul may cling as a weary bird to a haven of safety and refuge.
Then read, O ye people who are weary and heavy-laden!
Read the pages in which there is life, in which there is hope and strength, in which there is peace, the "peace which passeth all understanding," the peace that must first be born in the human heart before it can permanently live in the world of men. The kind of peace that alone can heal the bitter wounds of war, that alone can eliminate racial hatred and prejudice, that alone can make all people feel their brotherhood, their kinship. It is the peace that God, the Father of mankind, waits quietly to implant in the seeking heart.
Though today the world suffers with the aftermath of war, I can find peace when I read the sacred word. I can keep that peace as a wall of strength about my vulnerable soul, only as I remember, only as I live by those words. I am weak. The winds of confusion, of fear, of pestilence, of death; blow hot upon my citadel. They 'scorch my defenses.
They roar with terror in my ears. I must retum Page 226 again and again, and yet again, to the well which is never dry. I must drink cooling draughts from it, else I cannot bear the heat of this perplexing day.
Over and over I must remind myself, as King David did long years ago, that "the Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want."
There is solace in this song because it rings with an answering echo from the spoken words of the Man of Galilee whose sojourn among men, though brief, can never be forgotten. His lips spoke gentle comfort to all men everywhere. His words were meek and kind and understanding. His life was lived to fulfill his Father's will and was offered on the cross because of his great love for you and me.
Think upon him for a moment, how he lived only to give the world one great message, the simple story of love, love of God and love of all men. The world listened. The world remembered. But the world has never wholly heeded the precept. Yet the memory of this Man has endured and will always endure as long as there are souls who love truth and freedom?as long as there are yet those who will read his words. Sit in the quiet of your room.
Shut yourself in with the quiet precepts of this Jesus of Nazareth. Or, if your world has been blacked out, if all is dark around you, if your eyes have for the moment lost their vision, or if your Book is not at hand, let your heart repeat the ECHOES OF HOPE Christian's universal creed: "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want." You know the words. Let them peal with the solemnity of sweet-toned bells, and before the sound of each line shall have died away, like an echo, you can hear the words of the Son of God, speaking again, as he did so long ago, words of assurance, words of hope, words of peace. Listen! You can hear them even now. THE LORD IS MY SHEPHERD; I SHALL NOT WANT. I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. But. He that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep and fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep. The hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not for the sheep. I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine. As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep.... My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me: And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all; and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand (John 10: 11-15; 27-29). HE MAKETH ME TO LIE DOWN IN GREEN PASTURES: I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture (John 10:9). HE LEADETH ME BESIDE THE STILL WATERS.
Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life (John 4:13-14). HE RESTORETH MY SOUL: I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live (John 11:25). HE LEADETH ME IN PATHS OF RIGHTEOUSNESS FOR HIS NAME'S SAKE. If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.... For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works (Matthew 16:24-27). YEA, THOUGH I WALK THROUGH THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW OF DEATH, I WILL FEAR NO EVIL: FOR THOU ART WITH ME; THY ROD AND THY STAFF THEY COM.- FORT ME.
Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom (Luke 12:32). Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered.
Fear ye not therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows (Matthew 10: 29-31). And, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world (Matthew 28:20). THOU PREPAREST A TABLE BEFORE ME IN THE PRESENCE OF MINE ENEMIES: THOU ANOINTEST MY HEAD WITH OIL; MY CUP RUNNETH OVER. If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you (John 15:18-19). SURELY GOODNESS AND MERCY SHALL FOLLOW ME ALL THE DAYS OF MY LIFE: AND I WILL DWELL IN THE HOUSE OF THE LORD FOREVER. 228 In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also (John 14:2-3). And then, like a benediction, I think I hear him praying, as he did when his life was so near its end, praying for you and for me. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.... I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from evil.. O nghteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me. And  I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them (John 17: 11, 15, 25, 26). O hear, all ye people!
Hear and remember the words of the Man who has redeemed you with his blood.
Hear and understand the message in this greatest Book of books. Hear, not alone with the ears, but with the mind, the heart, the soul.
Hear and be comforted!
Hear and be strong!
Hear the words that speak of life eternal, the words that tell of hope, glorious and tnumphant, of love, deep and everlasting.
Hear and know!
When there is hope for the future, there is strength for today! WHEN HE RETURNS, REMEMBERING Dott J]. Sartori After he has known suffering?
This lad in khaki, in navy, in white? The thunder of hate, the rapier of greed, The heat and cold intemperate, After the white sheet of mercy is laid Cool and quiet across his wound, He will remember the Testament Where love was kindled and hate disowned. He will loose Christ from the printed Book, He will bring Easter against the tomb, When he returns, remembering, Back to this city and to this room. An Aria for Easter Vesta P. Crawford "I know that my redeemer liveth...." (Job. 19:25) HE greatest words in all the world, the most magnificent music?this has been said for almost two hundred years by the millions who have heard the faultless aria from Handel's Messiah. Particularly, in a time of change and uncertainty, it is not surprising that so many Christian people are finding new beauty and new strength in this Easter message. The words carry the simple, eternal beauty of scripture, "I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth...." In these phrases there is no faltering, no question.
Here is truth for the ages, for all who have doubted, for all who have believed. The music is a treasure that glows with brighter radiance through the years. Who was the matchless musician, the man Handel, who wrote this lofty and sacred music, who touched the utmost heights of composition? In the year 1685, a boy was born in Halle, Germany. His father said at once, "This child must be a lawyer. The shape of his head shows that he will have a great mind." His was a great mind, but not destined for the practice of law. Per. Haps, if he had become a lawyer, his name might long ago have been forgotten. Now, so long as music is repeated in the world, the name of George Frederick Handel will be imperishable. The young musician learned to play the harpsichord when he was only four years old and he was Teally no more than a child when he mastered the keys of the magnificent church organ in the Halle cathedral.
This was the beginning of Handel's devotion to organ music. "The tones of the organ," he said, "bring harmonies from the immortals, and surely the angels are near when the great organ sings its theme of praise." The violin was the next instru.
Ment mastered by Handel. He turned, then, to composition and wrote several operas in the style used by the Italians of his day.
After his first opera was produced in London, in 1711, Handel was so toyally welcomed that he felt himself being adopted by the music-loving people of "green and rainy" England. It was not long before the German-born Handel became court musician to the King of England.
George the First had a beautiful boat equipped with throne chairs. The boat sailed up and down the river Thames carrying the King of England and Handel, the King of Music. "Water Music" was the name given to the compositions that Handel played for the King as their boat plied the famous river. ANDEL, however, was seeking a medium greater than solitary compositions, greater, even, than operas.
There was in his nature a deep spiritual yearning that finalPage 229 230 A Perry Picture GEORGE FREDERICK HANDEL ly found expression in writing oratorios. An oratorio resembles an opera in its telling of a dramatic story to the accompaniment of music. The oratorio, however, is usually based upon a sacred theme and the message of inspiration is delivered without a scenic background, without acting, and without costumes. The chorus, the orchestra, and the solo singers perform in magnificent unity. Sometimes, in a vast audience, you may see some of the listeners close their eyes in order that the message may come to them entirely through the medium of music. Handel's oratorio, using a Biblical text, possessed a lofty grandeur new to the world of music. His Israel in Egypt, Saul, and others, won the plaudits of the English nation. But it was the Messiah that held the people speechless with its strength and beauty. Here, the story of the life of Jesus is told in the matchless poet  ty of the Bible, and the music carnies the words sublimely as clouds are carried across the blue heavens. It is said that when the oratorio was completed, George Frederick Handel stood in his room, a sheaf of papers in his hands.
Tears streamed down his face. The door slowly opened and a servant entered.
Handel turned and cried out, "I thought I did see all heaven before me and the great God himself." The gifted composer was then fifty-six years old and this was the climax of his career, the high point of achievement.
Although he could not then foresee the future, he realized, to some extent at least, that he had written immortal music. The narrative of the Messiah begins with the ancient prophecy, "Comfort ye, comfort ye my people.
Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem... The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness." (Isaiah 40:1-3).
These words are sung by tenor. The chorus takes up the refrain, "And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed. The first part of the oratorio tells the story of the birth of Jesus, using the words of St.
Luke to describe the shepherds "abiding in the field."
With a joyous refrain, the chorus repeats the glowing words, "Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given... And the government shall be upon his shoulder...." But the joyous phrases of the holy birth fade away as the story of Christ's life upon earth is unfolded.
With shadowed intonations, the alto soloist sings the heart-breaking aria, "He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief...." And the AN ARIA FOR EASTER tenor takes up the dark measures, "Behold and see if there be _ SOTrow like unto his sorrow. THEN, from the shadows that precede the dawn, there comes the message of the resurrection, the thythm of new life, the measure of springtime, the eternal resurgence of the spirit. In words more clear than the tones of a bell, more lucid than falling water, the soprano sings, "I.
Know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth......"
This is the beloved Easter aria, words of hope and comfort, words that have sustained the followers of Christ for centuries.
These are the Biblical words that were treasured long before Handel set them to mu- 231 sic. Yet, with Handel's spacious talent, these words have acquired an added luster, a brighter illumination. The exquisite words are sung against a background of violin music more elusive and beautiful than the gray dawn shadows that dissolve into the opal morning. One feels the ineffable unity of this earth, its past, its present, and the ages tocome. One feels that this earth is but a part of the vastness of creation. The treasured words of the Easter aria fall in silver cadence, each note a jewel. "But now is Christ risen from the dead, the first fruits of them that slept." It is a majestic thing to remember that when Handel was an old man and the tide of his health was ebbing low, he played the organ at one of the numerous renditions of HANDEL AND GEORGE I OF ENGLAND From a Painting by Hamman 232 the Messiah in England. He had been blind for many years, but he could not give up his music.
Especially he could not live without touching the organ keys to make them speak the message of faith and hope. On this occasion, the skilled hands of the master musician stopped in the middle of a phrase. He trembled and almost fell from the seat. Ina few moments he recovered his pow  ers and finished playing the accompaniment with his accustomed grandeur. But that was the last time his fingers touched an organ. On Saturday, April 14, 1759, early in the morning, the man who composed the Messiah was himself wrapped in sleep. He lies with EngJand's honored ones in the vast crypts of Westminster Abbey. His spirit lives forever in his unrivalled music.
WHEN THE CHOIR BROADCASTS
Ruth H. Chadwick The Temple of God stands within my walls, Lifting its spires to heaven above, While Angel Moroni's clarion calls Proclaim the gospel of love. It comes on the wings of music and song, As the organ's rhythmic harmonies Sustain the cadenced tones and prolong The celestial melodies. It rises in splendor as each vibrant chord Mingles with praise from the choir unseen, To swell in hosannas to our Lord? And my reverent heart is serene! Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER I on the wooden washboard and brushed a wayward curl from her forehead.
Then she stepped noiselessly to the door leading to the front room which was both livingroom and bedroom. She smiled gently at the sight of her small daughter sleeping soundly, one arm thrown above a tousled, dark head. "You Angel," she whispered, kissing the pink cheek. Rising, she placed her hands on her hips to say, "T'm thinking you get to look more like your father every minute." As she went out into the April sunshine, with the blue skies overhead and the spring sunlight falling upon the expectant earth, she laughed with the sheer joy of living. A song found her lips as she took each piece of clothing, shook it, then pinned it upon the clothesline. A neighbor, hanging clothes across a high board fence, called, "One thing, it'll soon dry in this sunshine."
Enid called back, "Yes, isn't it wonderful?" The other woman looked at her rather sharply, "I can't say it's so wonderful. Mud to be tracked in and out of the house...
This sudden thaw.
Wait till your baby can run in and out by herself. And wait till you get a couple more to wash and iron for." Then, as a last gloomy thought, she added, as she turned to enter the house, '""There's death in this weather, too, if you ask me." |e ID piled her starched clothes But Enid did not let her neighbor's pessimism spoil her day. She was twenty-three, she had a husband whom she loved and who loved her. She was strong and well and had the most beautiful baby in the world... She thought of these things as she cleaned up the large, old-fashioned kitchen before starting to set the table. Yet, catching herself pausing in her work, she thought, "I have no time to be dreaming?even though it is wise to be counting my blessings. I must dress Sharon and feed her so she will be sweet for her adoring Daddy."
There was none too much time. She was just wiping the last crumb from the small girl's mouth when she heard Tom's footsteps on the porch.. She would know the swift, strong sound of them any place. She hurriedly took Sharon up and rushed forward to meet him as he came in...
Large and brown and smiling. Her husband, her Tom, her world... "Enid, Doll," he called her, taking her chin in his hand to tilt her face upward for his kiss. 'Then, to the baby, "If it isn't my big girl.
Come here, you blue-eyed rascal." "Wonder where she gets those beautiful blue eyes?"
Enid asked archly, looking at him from under dark, heavy lashes. "Now I wouldn't have the slightest idea," he returned laughingly, Page 233 shoulder where she was carried into and mo a sunny bay ndow the two-r00?m 4 rtmen which they You are going to have the best 0 were rentin! Use it was the OP y eve thing," thing availa "Don't you that might be ?. I As Enid served the meal which she 4 little bit selfish?" she teased, adhad put into the oven before hang: ding soberly, "L think what you said ing het clothes, Tom said, "1 like first 18 right.
Dreams and faith are washday. } know well have sc the things ? live by. Espect# y loped potatoes-" faith." "And today, fruit cobbler," she He got up from the table, looked told him.
Down at het fondly, "Be sute to keep "No kidding?
Whatever didido your faith in me Sweetheart. To deserve th go" H ook his head the future in wonde nt at his good fortune, re then his eyes be grave and his yoice serious as he looked at her, say WEEN the clo had been ing, "someday, nid, and soon, we gathered in the dishes done be building our own home. WwW d put away, t on a clean won't live here very long ov yoile dress, prushed het hair, an have everything yo be the with the baby rt, starte finest lady 19
Pleasant Vl Ymin toward t do het shopping line to becom foreman 4 the fac: The peop! She on the stree tory ineteen twen new = friendly Though she was 4 foreman T wont dt men like howevet, w het because her hus Hutchins There'll b fewer! Band had lived het when he was a accidents, to better wor ' poy. His parents had been among "Ym not worried about yout makthe leaders f the church and ing good, 1 kno you'll suc: commun! She tho ght, as $ e ceed. But, as far as mi concerned, walked along, that it was strange I have everything 1 want right now. That poth of them should be orphans, If 1 thought being the finest lady 19 without any Neat relatives. Het pat: mighty good ighty good, inwas dead now, too, and both of deed." After a moment he took up Tom's parents died during the thread of their conversation, flu epidemt was thirteen 'Yes, Em have many ?00
Her heart earned tenderly over him things. M ybe the pest part of life as she though f him lef alone is when you are young, and full of with aging grandparents. She dreams, full of faith in the future. Thought of his hewilderment and Even so, I'l be glad to get you out his hurt. It seemed even greater FAITH IS A HERITAGE than her own because she had been had to work to get through school. She would see that as soon as there Was enough money put away, he would return ini | neering course, a trained electrical engineer, They had back after a few years... But Sharon changed that. Have it any different, not for worlds. The grocer was most kind when time," speaking about her as she left the id, "That's. Tom Drage's wife. Isn't she pretty?" The other answered, "Yes. We'll eee ee NID was tolling Tom's socks to put in his drawer when she heard a knock on the door. Rising to open it, she saw the tall gaunt woman from whom they rented standing in the doorway. She hoped they had done nothing to displease her. She was not married, and certainly not being too occupied in her own full life. "Miss Nobbit," she gteeted her, 'Do come in," 235
The other woman looking at her oddly for a long second. Enid felt the blood move to her face as she wondered again what could account for the unprecedently, kindly, "My dear, you must be brave...." Then, her words falling swiftly over one another, "They just phoned me from the sugar factory. Something happened to your husband. Yoy musn't look 'like that, child, Here, let me get you a drink," way under her. She found herself on the bed, dazed and trembling, her breath coming fast, "He... He - +. Wasn't...?" She couldn't say the word, but Miss Nobbitt said, honestly, "T don't know. They told me they were bringing him home." Suddenly, Enid got to her feet, tan to the