[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 33 | Category: General Feature | Title: Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Work Meeting: Let's Make Dickies Offerings...-........ Se--e-c0-- Spring Shadows o. O. Nc. C. Oececececccececceeceeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeenaeeseeesesseseeeeeee SSBF osasecsacncsnorossesnecsnsnsnsonnsennscesasceecessevensecesvensceceeseesencunscaeseecentececseneceeesensees No. 4
Alice Morrey Bailey 221
Marguerite { Griffin 226 248
Ramona W. Cannon 249 287
Etta S. Robbins 274
Elsie E. Barrett 274
Beatrice K. Ekman
  RETURN OF SPRING Olive M. Nicholes Orion waves his jewelled sword on high And marches onward with the frosty stars; Fair Venus rises in the evening mists And hangs her lantern in the April sky. The crocus stirs beneath the frozen clod, The river slips its crystal barricade; The warm earth stirs and lives and breathes again And pours its bounty in the hands of God. The pale narcissus blooms in dappled shade, Blue violets embroider woodland trails; Among the pussy willows by the brook The veery flutes his vernal serenade. Why should I tremble when the planets swing Their sure, celestial pathway through the stars, When blighted gardens and the frozen hills Pass on to blaze a trail for fragrant spring?
Though mankind barters for his brother's soul?
This do I know, if all the world forgets, That the eternal mind of man shall move With certitude, unhurried to its goal. The Cover: "Desert Roses" from a photograph by Dr. Walter P. Cottam VOL. 33, NO. 4 APRIL 1946 "ON THE WAY To EMMAUs" Tom a Painting by Plockhorst "Concerning Jesus of Nazareth" 6? A ND, behold, two of them went that same day to the village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad? And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people: And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him. But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre; And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it seven so as the women had said: but him they saw not.
Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken: Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made as though he would have gone further. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. Page 219
And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them. And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight. And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. (Luke 24:13-36) SPRINGTIME KNOLL Ivy Houtz Woolley God's carpet is a springtime knoll. The Master Weaver's best, A garden pattern on display, Superb from foot to crest. Aglow with green?bedecked with buds, And sunshine gleaming through, A mindful skill this carpet shows Beneath the sky's cool blue. My carpet is a springtime knoll, Bloom-spattered meads my shrine? I worship in this lovely place, This house of God's?and mine. 
 ?APRIL 1946
Before the Dawn Alice Morrey Bailey There is an hour of darkness in the night Beyond reflected rays of yesterday, Too eatly yet to catch the coming light Refracted from tomorrow' s newest rayhour is just PS ore the dawn, ght was the culminating pom is more matter of Mg night when their long figh was to and day, more than a certain num be given he test? ether this new ber of hours ch of light and dart medicine ould work on humans aS "and to shed the light of hope into might meat death. The darkness of despair.
They fed him an ounce of pure 7 couragement \f-doubt at the medicine in with hypodermic, an soundless falling of cate ully built waited?One hour; two hours Noth structures ? ho d jar with this form of darkness. Banting, 2 obscure Canadian docA different type of "darkest hour" often comes to one who has was in his Jaboratory at the Univer paid too high a cost, and, having at sity of Toronto.
With him were tained it, finds that it;.
Dust and two ne was Charlie Best, ashes im hs hands. In this category his faithful helper through months are all who forfeit morality, virtue, a wee ? grilling research, OF honesty for people, possessions? ot nights of sleeplessness: and days of causes?things that may seem 1) an nxie Je they had ursued an of themselves to be fine nd desit elusive life-saving th that ha able.
Come to Dr.
Banting in 4 flash of inAnd yet "The leopard never spiration during the night of Octochanges his spots," 15 3 human docber 30, tw years before. The other tnine, foreign to the teachings of One man was Joe Gilchrist, Dr.
Bantwho died between two thieves. Ing's deat friend, who was dying the Those who have gone beyond, the Page 22\ 222 moral boundaries are most in need of the helping hand.
They have lost the power to discern tight from wrong; they are most dependent upon the clear and unselfish thinking of others, after floundering in a Se4 of confused values.
Creative people are particularly prey to moods of exhilaration or despondency, S? much so that fits of "temperament" are expected of them.
Perhaps itis because emotion is an integral part of creativeness, and emotion ls by turns a flatteret and a depressant, but never a Te liable pair of spectacles through which an artist may view his own creation. Robert Louis Stevenson, at Sherryvore, Bournemouth, England, once wrote feverishly for three days on a new story that had come to him in a dream?ten thousand words a day, while the household went about masterpiece, ished, called his wife and her son, Lloyd Osbourne, sn and read them the manuscript with an intensity that made shivers Tun UP and down Lloyd's spine. When Stevenson came to the end, gazing Up at them in triumph and self-satisfaction, waited for the outbreak of enthus!- asm from his wife, whose fine powers of criticism and analysis he relied upon. "Robert, you have missed the whole point," she said. "You've missed the whole allegory." angry, Lloyd trembling from the room, and his mother in tears to her apartment. Ee * *.  RIGHTEOUS indignation at un just treatment is justifiable, but it is effective only when something can be done to relieve the situation, to undo the wrong: Henry Collins Brown sat in the hopelessness of an insane asylum contemplating suicide. He felt that death was a doot behind which were the mental door; that he had the power to tum it, with every reason to do so, and no good reason not to. He had lost his lifework. He had formerly been curator and founder of the Museum of the City of New York, into which position he had put the best years of his life. He had fought for the preservation of valuable historical relics, for a home in which to collect and care for them. He had delivered many learned lectures and solicited funds for the cause. For many ye" he had strug: gled against the indifference of people until he had accomplished his He knew that, whether he lived or died, the museum was established and the work would go On, It was then that the Museum officials decided he was too old for the job?he was sixty-five?and removed nim, supplanting him with a "popinjay" from the West, who had nevet seen New York, and who affronted the cultivated patrons of the institution. Dr.
Brown went down un der the weight of these injustices an from overwork. He believed there was nothing left to live for; it was too late to start over again, and this seemed to be the end.
BEFORE THE DAWN
These are isolated pictures of seemingly different human crises, but they have some things in common, as all human beings have certain things in common. As mortal beings, all people are subject to disappointments and even defeats which are inevitably to be met in one form or another during our sojourn upon the earth. The bottom drops out of the bucket of hope. Nature betrays the young; death assails security. Each man may look at his neighbor with envy, thinking he sees a man with no burdens, no problems. The soldier returning with the loss of an eye or an arm does not see spiritual death, mental and moral cripples, in the physically whole. The beautiful dreams of aspiring souls?peace, brotherhood, wise parenthood, unselfish love and religious perfection?are more often ideals to strive toward rather than realities which are ours. Nevertheless, they must be striven for, because they can be achieved, and simply, too, by obedience to divine and eternal laws of truth. "He that loseth his life shall find it," said Jesus. Death was not the end for him, but a new and glorious beginning. The morning of the resurrection was sweet and fair. The brightest hour in human history was when Mary, stooping to peer into the tomb, saw the empty linens of death, the angels robed in white at the foot and head of the tomb, and when Jesus revealed himself to her, asking: "Woman, why weepest thou?" (John 20:11-16). The Son of Man was not only personally victorious over the great enemy of life on earth, he laid a pattern through death to life again that every mancan and will follow. 223
Moreover, the words of his wisdom, that fell some two thousand years ago on the ears of herdsmien and farmers, high priests and moneychangers, are still the patterns of wise living, and in no less measure applicable to men of today.... "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free," he told them (John 8:32). X Ke K CHARLES Banting had been doing just that?seeking the truth to make men free. His story might well have ended on that night of September 11, 1922. The short time and sparse materials allotted to him for his research had been used long since. Any day now he would be dismissed by the more important heads of the institution, who had no patience with his harebrained idea anyhow. His thoughts were dark with discouragement as he boarded the train to go to his home. He didn't know that he had left too soon, that, back in Toronto, Charlie Best was saying: "Let's have another go at it, Joe," and that Joe was breathing much better, that suddenly, after months, his head was clear again and his legs had lost their heaviness?that he was able to eat a good supper, after which he took a stroll, grinning and "walking on air," as he put it. By the time of Banting's arrival at his home the news had been telephoned, and Banting was given the message that freed millions from death by diabetes?for Banting had discovered insulin. So narrow is the margin between success and failure! So small is the 224 moment when the heart touches bottom and wavers between disaster and the will to go on! Robert Louis Stevenson brooded for three days over his disappointment in his wife's verdict. Finally, he called her in, told her he had accepted her judgment, and, over her tearful protests, threw his feverishly written manuscript into the fire. If he tried to mend it, the result would be a patchwork of good and bad, he declared, so he was going to write it over! He wrote steadily for three more days, 10,000 words each day, and the tenth day after he had begun it, he sent off to the publishers the manuscript, replete with significance and rich with allegory, that lives to this day as one of the greatest stories ever to come from the pen of an author?Dr.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. * ee * '<T can forgive, but I can't forget," is another fallacy humans cling to, though it is entirely foreign to the gospel of "seventy times seven." Dr. Brown, now gone down the long hall, beyond reach of human influence or the written word, reached toward the knob of suicide on the door of death, and, as he teached, he learned some eternal truths, notably that lack of controlled thinking had put him where he was, and that self-control was the only road back. He took that long way back, slipping many times, losing ground that had to be regained.
With part of his mind "mislaid," the rest of it  went on functioning. He observed his fellow inmates and analyzed their difficulties.
After three years at the Bloomingdale Hospital, Dr.
Brown was a member of the free world once more. He carried with him a message of hope and encouragement from the most hopeless of all worlds, the world of the insane. He delivered lectures and gave verbal encouragement to hundreds who were in danger of losing their minds. At the age of seventy-five, his book A Mind Mislaid was published, a book particularly helpful to those subject to nervous breakdown, for in it are constructive truths that he learned at the doors of selfdestruction: No matter how hard it is, one must forget, and once having forgotten, it is not hard to forgive.
There is absolutely no virtue in repining; there is positive harm and real danger in thinking back to what might have been. The gentle gospel of the Master of "Beginning Again" contains all the essentials of joyful, successful living, and his words about faith, repentance, and forgiveness?peace, and brotherly love?are not platitudes, as we sometimes regard them, but hard and fast rules by which men must live, or come to the grief of war, failure, self-destruction, and even the destruction of others.
Despair and discouragement are the tools of evil, and they are too much at hand in the darkest hour. April, with its returning life, holding, as it does, the resurrection of the Savior, is truly an especial time for new beginnings. It is the bright morning after the dark night of winter..
Echoes of Hope Marguerite ]. Griffin HERE is peace in the scriptures, and purity of thought, poetry of form.
There is poise for the perplexed, paeans of praise for the joyful, prophecy for the student,