[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Guide | Title: Social Science - Modern Applications of Moral Principles - Lesson 14-Morality and the Church]

For Tuesday, May 28, 1946

Lesson link: Last month we applied principles of social ethics to the problem of economic inequality, racketeering, political corruption, and war. It was shown that justice is often violated in the modern world, and that real peace and happiness can never come until man learns how to be fair, equitable, and charitable toward his fellowmen.

Lesson aim: To examine religion as a moral force in life.

IT was Jesus who said, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled" (Matthew 5:6); and Nephi makes this more clear (III Nephi 12:6). Religion supplies an urge to righteousness, a motive for morals. Just as the family is the seedbed of character so is the church the climate under which it can best develop. Religion views righteousness against the background of eternal life, and by helping people to see more clearly and feel more deeply it supplies the spiritual life so necessary in times of temptation and moral crisis.

Soul Erosion

There is considerable talk these days about the waste of natural resources, about the problem of soil erosion and the necessity for conservation. All of this is well and good. But an even more serious problem, and one that is receiving too little attention, is the problem of soul erosion and the importance of conservation in the field of human resources. What good is material wealth if it is used for dissipation and destruction? What good is technological advancement if it fails to bring peace and happiness to a world that is tired and sick from centuries of sin? Scientific learning and material progress are of little value if they leave man in misery; it is socially, spiritually, and morally that we lag.

With war come many frightful things, including the publication of long lists of casualties. But there are other casualty lists, more serious even than these, which go unpublished. These are the lists of the countless numbers who become calloused to suffering and hardened to sin; of those who give up to temptation, who let down their standards, and who start downhill. It is better to lose a life than to lose a soul. Ethical progress, and the happiness it insures, depend much more upon the method of living than upon life alone; much more upon right than upon might; much more upon morals than upon money.

There are only three possible approaches to truth: (1) the approach of the scientist through observation, investigation, and analysis; (2) the approach of the philosopher through meditation, speculation, and logic; and (3) the approach of the religionist through inspiration, revelation, and faith. Most of us rely somewhat upon all three of these sources, leaning more heavily upon one or the other according to individual taste. But some people exclude religion entirely, claiming that it is based upon weakness and naivety and that it leads to superstition rather than truth. These people are mistaken, as the testimony of millions has and will bear witness. The genuine religious experience goes much beyond the sensory experience of the scientist or the rational experience of the philosopher; and those who fail to reach it, fail to really live.

But there are those who fail to reach the heights of religious expression; who are content to remain in the world of physical reality alone, skeptical of everything that may lie beyond. And this is one reason for man's inhumanity to man. There is too much materialism and too little spirituality among men today; too much worldliness and too little godliness; too many hedonists and too few moralists.

On the Fringe of Righteousness

Many who profess religious belief fail to demonstrate it in their conduct. With many, religion is a mere verbalism, or at best a mannerism, but certainly not a way of life. Sometimes institutional religion fails to mesh with society and to vitalize the lives of its people. Sometimes religion doesn't "carry-over." Sometimes people are content to remain on the fringe of righteousness, going through the motions but missing the spirit and the substance of the thing. A few of the ways in which this is done are listed below:

(1) Escapism. This is sometimes spoken of as otherworldliness. The tendency is to run away from life and to find refuge in the hope of another and better world. This is all right if it isn't carried too far. The church should provide a haven for the oppressed and an incentive for eternal living, but where people become too obsessed and preoccupied with the afterlife they often fail to live properly as they go along. They overindulge in wishful thinking, living in a dream world, failing to be realistic.

(2) Opportunism. This is the tendency on the part of many to turn religion to their own temporal advantage, to use church membership as an opportunity for private profit. Salesmen will intentionally make contacts at church services that they hope to capitalize on later in the year; merchants will purposely build up good will in church so as to increase business; politicians will attend church and become affable in manner in order to get in the public eye and build up their vote-getting strength; et cetera. This might even be called "business religion," for those who practice it turn their worship into a mere business.

(3) Conspicuous performance. Here we have the practice of religious activity for the sake of showing off. There are those who like to be socially conspicuous and are willing to use the church services for this purpose only, or mainly. The overplay on fine clothes, the arrogant snobbery so prevalent in some churches, the tendency on the part of a few to monopolize class discussions and to even seek church positions; all of these are examples. Conspicuous performance in church programs is immoral because it distorts true religion and makes of it a mere technique for social intercourse and selfish display.

(4) Hypocrisy. The opportunists and the conspicuous performers are also hypocrites, but there are other varieties as well. Whenever preachments fail to square fundamentally with practice, or Sunday manners do not conform to week-day performance, the person is a hypocrite, for he seeks to deceive. Piety alone is hypocrisy, for it leads to neither spirituality nor righteousness. Sometimes hypocrisy is caused by sinister motives, as indicated above, but often, too, it results from a simple desire for social approval or a weakness in carrying out good intentions. (For a good scriptural passage on hypocrisy see Matt. 6:1-18.)

(5) Sterile orthodoxy. We do not imply by this term that orthodoxy itself is wrong. As a matter of fact, those Latter-day Saints who are completely orthodox will accept the dynamic principle of creative expression and progression along with the idea of obedience to specific commandments. (See Doc. and Cov. 58:26-29.) Refer also to the third Social Science lesson for last year, "The Road to Righteousness," and particularly to that section of it called "Obedience plus." It is when orthodoxy becomes sterile that it is wrong; when it is satisfied with mechanical conformity alone; when it stifles the divine spark in man, the creative urge, and makes of him a mere robot or puppet that can be pushed around. Sometimes people lose the real spirit and substance of religion by overstressing mechanical adherence to its forms alone. ("The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life."—II Corinthians 3:6.)

(6) Fanaticism. This refers to a lack of balance in religious perspective; a tendency to be dogmatic, narrow, and oppressive. Religion to be valuable should harmonize with life. We can have tolerance without indifference; broadmindedness without shallowmindedness; conviction without fanaticism—and we should have. There is little room in