[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
131 
pie  devoted  to  the  King  of  heaven 
and  the  fulfillment  of  his  excellent 
word. 
The  Genealogical  Society  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  which  was  established  in 
1894  ^^  *^^  Genealogical  Society  of 
Utah,  to  forward  the  vital  program 
of  the  Church  in  the  matter  of 
temple  work  for  the  living  and  dead, 
was  reincorporated  for  one  hundred 
years  on  November  20,  1944,  and  its 
name  changed  as  given  above.  In 
addition  to  the  many  services  of- 
fered to  members  of  the  Church  in 
assisting  them  to  do  temple  work 
for  the  living  and  dead,  the  Genea- 
logical Society  also  maintains  a  li- 
brary for  genealogical  research  which 
includes  at  the  present  time  over 
30,000  printed  volumes  and  over 
4,000  volumes  of  microfilm  records 
(including  over  one  million  pages 
of  original  records  from  North  Caro- 
lina and  three-quarters  of  a  million 
pages  from  Tennessee).  It  has  the 
largest  foreign  section  of  any  gen- 
ealogical library  in  America  and  in- 
cludes many  unique  collections 
among  which  is  a  copy  of  Boyd's 
Marriage  Index  containing  the 
names  of  six  million  persons  who 
married  in  England.  The  only  oth- 
er copy  of  this  Marriage  Index  is  in 
London,  England. 
Names  of  temples,  dates  of  dedica- 
tion, and  by  whom  dedicated  fol- 
low: 
Kirtland— March  27,  1836— The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Nauvoo— May  1, 1846— Elders  Or- 
son Hyde  and  Wilford  Woodruff. 
St.  George— April  6,  1877— Elder 
Daniel  H.  Wells. 
.927- 
Logan— May  17,  1884— President 
John  Taylor. 
Manti— May  21,  1888— Elder  Lo- 
renzo Snow. 
Salt  Lake— April  6,  1893— Presi- 
dent Wilford  Woodruff. 
Hawaiian— November  27,  1919— 
President  Heber  J.  Grant. 
Alberta— August  26,  1923— Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant. 
Arizona— October      23, 
President  Heber  J.  Grant. 
Idaho  Falls— September  23,  1945 
—President  George  Albert  Smith, 
Suggestions  ioi  Active  Reading  and 
Discussion 
With  the  help  of  the  suggestive  read- 
ings given  below  have  the  class  cany  on 
the  discussion  as  follows:  first,  answer  the 
question;  second,  read  the  assigned  part  of 
the  text  to  discover  wherein  we  must  "give 
heed  unto  his  word." 
1.  To  understand  more  fully  the  things 
of  God  and  the  great  blessings  given  in 
his  temples  one  might  well  begin  by  learn- 
ing more  of  the  spiritual  gifts.  Read  Doc. 
and  Gov.  46:10-33  with  the  notes  follow- 
ing found  in  the  Commentary'. 
2.  Within  the  temples  of  the  Most  High 
the  saints  are  drawn  closer  to  the  world 
beyond.  How  can  one  here  in  life  learn 
to  know  the  true  from  the  false  spirit  in 
preparation  for  the  finer  things  of  the 
Lord?    Read  Doc.  and  Gov.  50. 
The  supreme  joys  to  be  found  in  the 
temples  of  the  Lord  cannot  truly  be  dis- 
cussed, they  are  to  be  lived  in  sacred  places. 
It  is  hoped,  therefore,  that  this  second 
series  on  Ghurch  history  has  in  some  way 
awakened  a  desire  for  those  who  have 
studied  to  make  themselves  worthy  of  the 
Lord's  greatest  blessings  to  be  given  in 
his  holy  temples. 
For  pictures  of  Latter-day  Saint  temples 
see  A  Relief  Societ}-  Centenan-,  page  64.

132 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1946 
ViSiting  cJeachers'   ifiessages 
Sources  of  Strength— Charity 
Lesson  8— Charity  Never  Faileth 
Dr.  Lowell  L.  Bennion 
For  Tuesday,  May  7,  1946 
Objective:    To  encourage  people  to  put  their  trust  in  charity  as  the  unfaiHng  means  of 
improving  themselves  and  of  influencing  others  for  good. 
Charity  never  faileth:  but  whether  there 
be  prophecies,  they  shall  fail;  whether 
there  be  tongues,  they  shall  cease;  whether 
there  be  knowledge,  it  shall  vanish  away. 
For  we  know  in  part,  and  we  prophecy  in 
part.  But  when  that  which  is  perfect  is 
come,  then  that  which  is  in  part  shall  be 
done  away.  .  .  .  For  now  we  see  through 
a  glass,  darkly;  but  then  face  to  face:  now 
I  know  in  part;  but  then  shall  I  know  even 
as  also  I  am  known.  And  now  abideth 
faith,  hope,  charity,  these  three;  but  the 
greatest  of  these  is  charity  (I  Cor.  13:8  flF) . 
Paul  wrote  these  words  to  the 
Corinthian  saints  because  they  were 
disputing  among  themselves  about 
the  relative  importance  of  certain 
spiritual  gifts.  Some  saints  were 
making  a  show  of  the  gift  of  tongues 
—causing  confusion,  envy,  and  strife 
in  their  meetings.  Paul  did  not  in- 
tend to  minimize  the  value  of  proph- 
ecy, the  gift  of  tongues,  and  knowl- 
edge, but  he  knew  that  the  things 
we  know  in  part  shall  "be  done 
away"  with  when  a  fulness  of  knowl- 
edge comes.  He  asked  only  that  the 
Corinthian  saints  entertain  a  proper 
sense  of  values  and  cease  having  dis- 
putations concerning  divine  gifts. 
Love  is  at  the  heart  of  the  gospel 
of  Christ.  The  development  of  love 
and  of  the  other  great  attributes  of 
Deity  in  the  lives  of  individuals  and 
in  society  is  the  chief  aim  of  the  gos- 
pel. Prophecy,  knowledge,  and 
spiritual  gifts  inspired  of  Deity  will 
always  contribute  towards  this  pur- 
pose. 
The  passing  of  time  has  not 
changed  the  value  of  Paul's  emphasis 
on  charity  or  love.  Love  is  still  the 
first  commandment  and  the  end  of 
our  religious  striving.  Other  things 
in  life,  not  in  harmony  with  love, 
shall  pass  away.  Knowledge  alone, 
for  example,  will  not  bring  us  peace; 
knowledge  alone  will  not  enable  us 
to  rear  our  children  in  paths  of 
righteousness;  prophecies,  the  gift  of 
tongues,  a  theoretical  knowledge  of 
the  gospel  alone  will  not  guarantee 
us  a  happy  and  successful  life  to- 
gether in  the  Church  or  in  the 
world.  All  of  these  things,  to  be  of 
value,  must  be  accompanied  by  the 
spirit  of  love.  It  is  growth  in  love 
and  good  will  based  on  gospel-living 
which  will  endure  and  never  fail  us. 
Paul's  counsel  to  the  Corinthians 
applies  with  equal  force  to  us  today. 
Let  a  husband  and  wife  make  deci- 
sions with  charity  as  well  as  with 
knowledge,  for  their  decisions  will 
pass  but  their  love  will  endure.  Let 
a  mother  counsel  her  children  with 
love  as  well  as  with  knowledge,  for  a 
proud  youth  may  not  heed  his  moth- 
er's words  but  he  will  not  forget  her

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
133 
love.  Let  a  worker  in  the  Church  or  a  tinkhng  cymbal."  Let  us  put 
labor  with  the  love  of  Christ  lest  his  our  faith  in  love  and  never  neglect 
words  ''become  as  sounding  brass,     it. 
JLiterature 
The  Bible  in  Our  Literature 
Lesson  8— Bible  Influence  as  Revealed  in 
Children's  Literature 
Dr.  Howard  R.  Diiggs 
For  Tuesday,  May  21,  1946 
T  ITERATURE  for  children  had 
its  beginning  in  folk  lore.  Out 
of  the  wealth  of  stories  created  in 
the  long-ago  for  fireside  entertain- 
ment and  to  impress  life  lessons  have 
come  many  stories  of  appeal  for  both 
young  and  old.  Youth  enjoys  the 
story;  age  gets  more  of  the  inner 
meaning  from  it.  In  this  time-test- 
ed literature  is  a  rich  heritage  for 
all. 
Among  these  treasures  are  Aesop's 
fables— a  collection  of  little  tales, 
mainly  of  Greek  origin,  each  car- 
rying its  moral.  Legend  has  woven 
some  interesting  stories  about  Aesop. 
He  is  said  to  have  been  a  pedagogue 
or  teacher,  full  of  quaint  wit  and 
wisdom.  Certain  it  is  that  the  tales 
credited  to  him  preserve  in  living 
form  some  helpful  maxims;  for  ex- 
ample: 
THE  BOY  WHO  CRIED  WOLF 
A  young  shepherd  tending  his  flock  on 
a  hillside  not  far  from  a  village,  decided  to 
have  some  sport;  he  suddenly  cried,  "Wolf, 
wolfl" 
Immediately  there  was  a  scurrying  of  the 
men  who  heard  his  cry  to  help  the  lad  save 
his  sheep.    But  when  they  came  puflPing 
up  to  where  he  was,  they  found  him  laugh- 
ing at  them. 
Next  day  he  tried  the  same  foolish  trick. 
Again  the  men  came  to  his  help,  and  again 
they  were  laughed  at  by  the  silly  shepherd. 
On  the  third  day,  a  wolf  really  did  come. 
The  boy  shouted  and  shouted  but  no  one 
rushed  to  his  help.  Some  of  the  flock 
were  killed;  and  the  boy  learned  to  his  sor- 
row: A  liar  is  not  believed  even  when  he 
does  tell  the  truth. 
Action  centered  in  a  simple  but 
interesting  plot,  with  appropriate 
conversation  to  add  life,  makes  these 
fables  of  Aesop  rare  stories.  Added 
to  this  they  impress  practical  life  les- 
sons. Each  class  member  will  recall 
some  of  the  good  old  fables  that 
Aesop,  or  someone  else,  has  be- 
queathed to  us.  These  stories  are 
not  linked  with  the  Bible,  but  they 
are  in  keeping  with  its  helpful  teach- 
ings. 
Legends  are  another  type  of  stories 
which  not  only  charm  but  often 
teach.  One  the  writer  has  carried 
in  pleasant  memory  for  years  is  that 
of  Androclus  and  the  Lion.  This  is 
a  tale  of  a  Greek  slave  who  was  saved 
by  a  lion  from  whose  wounded  foot 
he  had  extracted  a    large,    painful

134  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1946 
thorn.     Later,  Androclus,  captured  old  folk  tales  is  the  spirit  of  democ- 
by  the  Romans  and  trained  as  a  glad-  racy  that  they  radiate.    Cinderella, 
iator,  met  the  same  lion  in  the  arena,  the  faithful  little  kitchen  maid,  wins 
The  beast  bounded  forward  to  at-  the  prince.    In  Snow  White  and  the 
tack,  but  stopped.     It  would  not  Seven  Dwarfs,  recreated  recently  in 
fight  its  friend.   The  Emperor,  learn-  a  colorful  photoplay  by  Walt  Dis- 
ing  tlie  reason,  ordered  both  An-  ney,  we  have  the  same  intermingling 
droclus  and  the  lion  freed.  of  folk    of   high    and   low   degree. 
This  is  just   a    legend— blending  Those  characters  possessing  homely 
some  historical  facts  with  fancy—  virtues  always  win  in  the  best  of  the 
but  it  impresses  the  value  of  kind-  fairy  tales  preserved  by  Jacob   and 
ness  to  animals.  The  story  of  Damon  Wilhelm  Grimm, 
and  Pythias  is  another  legend  por-  Mother  Goose,  of  course,  must  not 
traying  loyal  friendship.  Many  simi-  be  forgotten.   Where  this  quaint  old 
lar  stories  have  been  passed  down  to  creature  came  from,  with  her  jingles 
us.    Like  Aesop's  fables,  they  were  and  her    interesting   folk   of   every 
created  before  Christianity  came  to  type,  no  one  surely  knows.     Some 
the  Greeks,  but  many  of  them  are  like  to  think  she  was  a  real  person, 
in   consonance  with  the  Christian  but  that  seems  not  true.     Nursery 
spirit.  rhymes    that  are   linked   v^dth    the 
Another  t}'pe  of  story  created  and  name  are  probably  just  creations  of 
preserved  by  the  common  folk  is  the  the  common  people,  mainly,  of  old 
fairy  tale.    To  the  Grimm  Brothers  England. 
—early    day    students    of   language  No  matter  what  the  source  of  nurs- 
and  folklore— we  are  indebted  for  a  cry  rhymes,   they    have    fascinated 
wealth  of  these  and  other  folk  stor-  children  through  the  years.  They  are 
ies.     Created  for  fireside  entertain-  the  first  literature  of  tiny  tots;  they 
ment  and  told  and  retold  down  the  charm  grandparents,  too,  or  others 
years,  many  of  these  old  stories  have  who  take  time  to  share  their  music 
not  only  rhythmic  charm  but  every-  and  fun  with  the  lively  boys  and  girls, 
day  goodness.  Wholesome  humor  and  entertain- 
Each  will  recall  a  favorite  among  ment  sparkle  in  the  best  of  the  Moth- 
these  tales.  One  that  has  literally  er  Goose  rhymes.  They  hold  a 
gone  round  the  world  is  Cinderella,  wealth  of  human  nature,  too. 
A  story  basically  like  it  has  been  This  heritage  of  time-  tested  liter- 
found  even  among  the  Indians,  but  ature  provides  not  merely  recreation, 
instead  of  daint}'  glass  slippers,  the  but  a  basis  of  understanding  and  ap- 
little  red  heroine  wore  beautifully  preciation  for  all  literature.  No  finer 
beaded  moccasins;  and  the  hero,  of  examples  of  storytelling  can  be 
course,  was  a  fine  young  chieftain,  found  than  in  the  folk  tales.  Having 
Folk  think  of  the  Cinderella  story  as  been  passed  in  oral  form  along  the 
purely  fanciful.  It  is  all  that  and' far  stream  of  time,  they  are  like  the 
more.  It  is  true  to  life  and  true  to  water-tumbled  stones,  rounded  and 
truth.  At  heart  its  lesson  is:  Real  polished.  To  survive  folk  criticism, 
worth  will  one  day  come  into  its  the  story  had  to  have  appeal  for  com- 
own.  mon  people.     This  is  why  homely 
An  interesting  thing  about   these  virtues   win   praise;   and   good    tri-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  135 
umphs  over  evil  in  these  classic  tales,  tury.    What  the  little  folk  were  giv- 
They  offer  a  standard  measurement  en  before  that  time  was  what  might 
with  which  to  judge  more  modern  be  called   family  literature— stories 
creations.    Further,    because    they  young  and  old  might  enjoy.    One  of 
have  been  woven  into  many  of  the  the   fireside   favorites,    along  with 
more  recent  stories    for    old    and  Bible  stories,  was  Pilgiim's  Progress 
young  through  language,  allusions,  by  John  Bunyan.  In  her  Little  Wom- 
and  characters,  it  becomes  doubly  en,  Louisa  M.Alcott  pictures  the  joy 
necessary  that  children  and  grown-  she  and  her  sisters  had  in  following 
ups  get  closer  to  this  literary  heri-  Christian,  the  hero  of  this  allegory, 
tage.  in  his  soul-testing  adventures  on  the 
Best  of  all  the  story  treasures  from  way  to  the  ''Delectable  Mountains." 
long  ago  are  those  from  the  Bible.  Rohinson  Crusoe,  by  Daniel  Defoe, 
Children,  under  the  guidance  of  and  Gulliver's  TravdSy  by  Jonathan 
their  parents,  should  grow  up  with  Swift,  are  other  adventure  stories 
these.  Beginning  with  the  ones  that  widely  enjoyed  round  the  hearth- 
deal  with  childhood  and  youth  as  sides  of  earlier  days,  except  those  of 
''Abraham  and  Isaac,"  "Joseph  and  severely  Puritan  cast,  where  fiction 
His  Brothers,"  'The  Boy  Samuel,"  was  strictly  ruled  out. 
"David,  the  Young  Shepherd,"  the  What  these  folk  wanted  for  them- 
"Story  of  the  Christ  Child,"  boys  selves  and  their  children  was  the 
and  girls  can  be  led  into  a  love  of  Bible.  To  train  their  young  folk  in 
the  Book  of  Books.  the  reading  of  the  scriptures,    they 
No  better  practice    than   that  of  established  their  schools.    An  easy 
reading  aloud  in  the  home  choice  step  to  this  end  was  provided  in  the 
selections   from   the  Bible  can  be  New  England  Primer^  which  begins 
recommended.     This  applies  both  with  this  couplet: 
from  the  viewpoint  of  implanting  a  In  Adam's  fall 
love  of  gopel  truth,  and  cultivating  We  sinned  all. 
literary  appreciation;  for  the  Bible  School  readers  created  later  varied 
as  we  have  it  in  the  King  James  trans-  the  strictly  Biblical  offerings  some- 
lation,  is  superb  English  literature,  what,  yet  they  kept  a  strongly  re- 
This  may  be  plainly  seen  when  its  ligious  tone.    Even  the  famed  Mc- 
stories  are  properly  voiced.   Excel-  Guffey  Readers,  first  published   in 
lent  books  to  help  foster  such  ap-  1879^  l^eep  close  to  the  Bible  in  spir- 
preciation  are  Hulbert's  Story  of  the  it  and  content.    Love  of  God,  love 
Bible  for  Young  and  Old  and  The  of  nature,  of  home  and  friends,  re- 
Illustrated  Bible  Story  Book  by  Sey-  spect  for  parents,  kindliness,  charity, 
mour   Loveland.    Attractive    other  honesty   and    the    other   Christian 
books  portraying  the  Bible  for  young  virtues  are    all    impressed    v^th    a 
folk  are  also  available.     Of  course  choice  selection  of  stories,  poems, 
the  Bible  itself  is  always  a  first  ref-  and  other  literature  in  the  McGuffey 
erence.  Readers.     "Rather     old-fashioned," 
Literature  created  especially   for  someone  may  remark.    Yes,  but  in 
children  did  not  make   its   appear-  tribute  to  his  great  contribution   to 
ance  to  any  great  extent  before  about  character  building,  American  leaders 
the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  cen-  —Henry  Ford  among  them— not  so