[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: To Elizabeth Olive M. Nicholes]
142 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1946 
real  religion  for  the  narrow  bicker- 
ings and  the  dogmatic  assertions 
that  sometimes  find  expression  with- 
in the  portals  of  the  church. 
(7)  Passivism.  This  is  the  practice 
of  taking  religion  passively,  of  being 
a  member  of  the  church  but  not  do- 
ing anything  about  it,  of  remaining 
inactive  and  indifferent.  To  be  really 
effective  religion  must  be  of  the 
active  variety.  There  are  sins  of 
omission  as  well  as  commission,  and 
to  get  the  most  out  of  the  church 
one  must  participate  in  its  programs. 
It  will  be  a  sad  day  for  many  when 
they  look  back  and  realize  "what 
might  have  been."  Church  mem- 
bership can  and  should  mean  much 
more  to  the  individual  than  passive 
convenience  or  expediency. 
(8)  Crisis  religion.  Closely  related 
to  passivism  is  the  practice  of  turn- 
ing to  the  church  only  when  in 
trouble.  Coming  out  of  World 
War  II  is  the  statement  that  ''There 
are  no  atheists  in  foxholes."  It  is 
good  that  men  will  usually  turn  to 
God  when  their  backs  are  against 
the  wall,  so  to  speak,  but  it  is  un- 
fortunate that  they  don't  turn  to 
him  more  at  other  times.  A  religion 
that  is  based  primarily  upon  fear 
tends  to  motivate  worship  in  times 
of  crisis  only,  and  because  of  this  it 
fails  to  lift  men  to  the  greater  joys 
that  life  has  to  offer. 
(9)  Compartmentalism.  Religion 
to  be  effective  should  be  integrated 
with  total  life.  But  with  many,  un- 
fortunately, it  is  kept  as  an  undi- 
gested segment  of  life,  good  for  Sun- 
day but  impractical  for  any  wider 
application.  Men  too  often  com- 
partmentalize their  lives;  pigeonhole 
their  morals;  segregate  their  prin- 
ciples and  practices.  Theology  is 
too  often  divorced    from    practical 
present-day  application.  Spirituality 
is  too  often  missed.  Religion  should 
be  taught  more  in  terms  of  life.  The 
church  should  be  a  vital  part  of  every 
community,  willingly  and  actively 
engaged  in  the  war  against  sin  and 
injustice  as  they  exist  today. 
(10)  Institutionalism.  Sometimes 
we  err  by  shifting  too  much  atten- 
tion from  the  individual  to  the 
church;  by  emphasizing  the  church 
for  its  own  sake  with  little  thought 
of  the  people  it  is  to  serve;  by  over 
standardizing  worship  and  morals. 
When  Jesus  said  "The  sabbath  was 
made  for  man,  and  not  man  for  the 
sabbath"  (Mark  2:27),  he  might 
just  as  well  have  said  "The  church 
was  made  for  man  and  not  man  for 
the  church."  All  institutions  are 
made  for  man,  and  when  they  cease 
to  serve  him  they  end  their  useful- 
ness. It  is  dangerous  to  promote 
any  institution  for  its  own  sake.  Re- 
ligious programs  should  spring  from 
the  interests  and  the  needs  of  the 
people  more  than  they  sometimes 
do;  there  is  no  virtue  in  putting  over 
a  program  for  its  own  sake.  Records 
should  be  emphasized  less  and  actual 
achievement  more;  there  is  no  real 
value  in  a  "one-hundred  per  cent" 
achievement  record  unless  it  stands 
for  work  well  done.  It  is  the  people 
who  are  important,  more  than  the  in- 
stitution, and  the  programs  and 
measuring  devices  used  should 
always  be  constructed  with  their 
welfare  in  mind. 
Mora]  Guides  for  Modern  Saints 
Being  a  Latter-day  Saint  is  a  good 
guarantee  of  righteous  living.  The 
great  moral  principles  of  tlie  ages  are 
entirely  compatible  with  the  teach- 
ings of  Mormonism,  and  the  visions 
of  truth  and  eternity   which    Mor-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
143 
monism  supplies  are  enough  to  in- 
spire man  and  call  forth  the  best  that 
is  in  him. 
But  being  a  Latter-day  Saint 
means  more  than  just  having  your 
name  on  the  books,  more  even  than 
obeying  blindly  the  letter  of  the  law. 
It  means  honesty  based  upon  truth 
and  intelligence,  industry  based  up- 
on activity  and  effort,  and  justice 
based  upon  love  and  courage.  Being 
a  good  Latter-day  Saint  means  living 
righteously  in  every  sense  of  the 
word. 
With  a  love  for  God  and  a  desire 
for  righteousness,  modern  saints 
should  strive  for  the  good  life  in  all 
of  its  aspects,  including  the  follow- 
ing: 
Eternal  joy  in  place  of  sensual 
pleasure 
Struggle  and  growth  rather  than 
immediate  comfort 
Responsible  freedom  rather  than 
reckless  license 
Honesty  in  place  of  expediency 
Truth  instead  of  proof 
Right  instead  of  might 
Principle  rather  than  profit 
Vitality    instead    of    conformity 
alone 
Courage  in  place  of  cowardice 
Conviction  without  intolerance 
Tolerance  without  indifference 
Love  in  place  of  hate 
Optimism  instead  of  pessimism 
Faith  instead  of  skepticism 
In  concluding  this  lesson  series,  let 
us  resolve  to  live  above  the  petty  and 
the  commonplace;  to  be  large  in  vis- 
ion and  big  in  soul;  to  look  up,  and 
laugh,  and  love,  and  climb,  and  fight, 
and  do.  Let  us  resolve  to  devote  all 
our  might  for  the  right. 
Problems  for  Thought  and  Action 
1.  Explain  the  phrase  "soul  erosion";  "un- 
pubhshed  casualty  lists."  What  are  the 
three  approaches  that  can  be  made  to 
truth?  Why  is  it  a  mistake  to  exclude 
any  one  of  them?  Show  how  a  denial 
of  religion  can  lead  to  both  error  and 
immorality. 
2.  What  is  meant  by  the  "fringe  of  right- 
eousness"? Show  how  religion  to  some 
is  a  mere  verbalism;  a  Sunday  manner- 
ism. Why  must  real  religion  be  more 
than  these?  What  is  meant  by  "re- 
hgious  carry-over"?  Discuss  each  of  the 
ten  religious  perversions  outlined  in  the 
lesson.  Do  you  agree  or  disagree  with 
these  points?    Why  or  why  not? 
Selected  Reieiences 
Standard  Works: 
Bible:  Joshua  24:15;  I  Samuel  16:7; 
Proverbs  28:1;  Matthew  5:6;  6:1-18;  Mark 
2:23-28;  John  7:24;  II  Corinthians  3:2-6. 
Book  of  Mormon:  II  Nephi  1:23; 
27:25;  28. 
Doc.  and  Gov.  58:26-29;  121:33-43. 
Books  by  L.D.S.  Authors: 
Talmage,  James  E.,  The  Vitality  of 
Moimonism  (Boston:  Gorham  Press, 
1919),  "Religion  and  Daily  Life,"  pp.  193- 
196;  "The  Glory  of  God  Is  Intelligence," 
pp.  276-285;  "Ethics  and  Religion,"  pp. 
324-330. 
Bennion,  Milton,  Moral  Teachings  of 
the  New  Testament  (Salt  Lake  Gity,  Utah: 
Deseret  Book  Go.,  1928),  Part  II,  "The 
Moral  Standards  of  the  New  Testament," 
pp.  39-92.

i^  ^  -^ 
STAR  IN  HER  WINDOW 
Ruth  H.  Chadwick 
She  looked  beyond  the  silhouette  of  trees, 
Those  blackened  forms  against  a  studded  sky; 
A  waning  winter  moon,  now  cupped,  spilled  seas 
Of  fluorescent  light  to  vivify 
The  calm  and  tranquil  pattern  stars  must  live. 
rhey  twinkled  unperturbed,  aloof,  secure; 
Out  there  was  peace,  no  man-made  force  to  sieve 
The  souls  of  men,  and  leave  their  goals  obscure; 
No  treachery,  fomenting  underneath. 
Would  change  their  ways,  now  eons  old  and  tried; 
They  lighted  up  the  infinite's  great  wreath 
Of  circling  firmament  at  eventide. 
For  myriads  can  live  in  harmony. 
The  stars  would  show  the  way  that  all  might  see. 
She  looked  beyond  the  view  of  naked  eye, 
Around  the  globe's  great  seething  holocaust; 
Hell's  bursting  fury,  rockets  in  the  sky, 
Rained  death  below;  the  red  and  deafening  blast 
Of  force  was  everywhere;  decay  and  rot 
Attacked  the  brave  and  good  with  poisoned  dart. 
And  some  of  her  was  out  there,  too!    The  thought 
Set  tingling  echoes  pounding  in  her  heart. 
With  hope  and  faith  she  touched  the  fringe  that  framed 
Her  star;  an  earthly  painted  satellite, 
Devoid  of  warmth  or  glow,  it  mutely  claimed 
To  share  the  world's  mad  chaos,  greed  and  spite. 
But  this  she  knew,  her  star  would  prove  its  worth, 
And  win  the  right  to  signal  'Teace  on  earth." 
^  ^  it 
Page  144