[Vol33 | February 1946 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Article | Title: Star in Her Window Ruth H. Chadwick]
window. She could see several men cartying an improvised stretcher upon which lay a still, oh, an alarmingly stil] figure. Tom's figure, She heard Miss Nobbit say, "I've Phoned for the Doctor. He should be here any minute." She heard herself saying, "Thank you..." as her feet started toward the door, toward the street.... But, instead of going out, she suddenly turned and ran into the kitchen. Once there, she fel] to her knees, buried her face in her hands, crying, "Oh, God, please give me strength. Give me strength. Please Jet him be all right," adding, almost gtudgingly, "If it be thy will.. Please..." 236
When she returned to the room her face was paper-white but she carried her head bravely and her voice was almost calm as she said to the men, "Put him there, please. And do be careful." When they had laid his unconscious body on the bed, one of them awkwardly tried to explain that he had been trying to save time and, instead of stopping the machinery to adjust a belt, had tried to push it on with his foot. He had been caught in the horrible wheels.  
She shuddered as she thought of it. Somehow, she remembered his words that if he were foreman he wouldn't drive the men... She knelt beside him, stroked back his hair from the quiet forehead. She whispered, "Tom, Tom, darling. It's Enid...." But he did not hear her, and somehow, as she heard the doctor at the door, she knew with a dreadful certainty that he was dead. (To be continued) _- ~ AFTERMATH Anna Prince Redd Chimney weeds and broken path? The fire's sterile aftermath.
Defiantly the chimney stands alone Divorced from every board and stone That once was home.
Rubbish clutters up the lot, String and papers from the town are caught Upon the ragged shrubs. A yellow rose bush tries to bloom Without the care that once it knew; The grass that was the lawn Has gone to seed along the path And weeds usurp the bed Where flowers grew. My chimney shaft of mortared rock Has weathered storms, Withstood the shock Of winds that laid huge trees along the ground, Yet not a crack nor seam is found Breaking its strength.
Standing there, its tall straight length Awaits the work of builder hands; I'm going back to where it stands, For there, is home. P 3A cf Se ae A Perry Picture "CHRIST AND THE HOLY WOMEN" From a Painting by Golz The Infallible Spirit Etta Mai Scott "Help us, O Lord our God; for we rest on thee" (II Chronicles 14:11). WHEN this statement was made, Asa saw himself confronted by a vast army, steeds, and chariots, with no sign of any reinforcements to come to his relief.
Holding his own in the face of all of this, was a feat he felt that he could not attain. Therefore, he turned to the Lord and made entreaty. Asa's problem was only the case of the normal human being confronted with tragedy. We rush out to battle with our fears, and just as long as we have them under control, or as long as we are sure we have reinforcements to back us up, we move along at a gallant pace. But just let the walls of sorrow, grief, or despair confront us, let the wall of friendship, with which we thought ourselves surrounded, crumble, and our fortunes disappear, and we find ourselves lost and dazed.
Then it is that we, like Asa, turn our eyes toward God?that great infallible Father to whom a flood of prayers is constantly ascending, that great Power whose word can stay the waves, move mountains, and calm the troubled souls of men. If only we would keep our eyes fixed upon him all the time instead of calling in our hour of distress: "Help us, O Lord our God; for we rest on thee." Page 237 My father wanted me to Marty been Made back East.
They had Eph Wilson, and Brother Matt Wij. Shiny Pointed toes and high heels son, Eph's father, was a8 eager as and hig tops. Se.
When father askeg ie, Wily ting basques and lined them and had don't you like Eph, Elvira?" all J very full skirts, ] knew I'd be hap. ? has big feet om i kag uew calico, much ag I'd love u |: But there Was one reason Why ] enjoyed being Squired around b Ph, and that was Melissa Bates. 1?r eyes t that's another stor ance?
Suddenly i shouted "No!" he best dance of ? year wa Father went White and got u held on a dwinter's n ght, and the and strode Outside.
When he came man you went S SUPPOsed to back in, he said, "I've been figurin THERE IS TRUTH [ looked up at him so relieved and happy that I must have shone. He fumbled for words before he added, "That is, if you'll consent to go with Eph." I laughed and hugged him and promised. How I did regret that promise! It was the very next day that I met Henry. I had two buckets of water I had just drawn from the well. I looked up from the windlass, and there stood a young man by the corner of the mill. He was bareheaded, his hair thick and yellow as wild currants, fit to dazzle my ey?s. I stood with my mouth open staring like a little girl at her first boughten doll. Then | caught myself and turned away, my face burning clear back to my ears. But Henry called out, minute." So I stopped, and he came up to me and said, "You must be Elvira Lowham. My brother says you are working for his wife. I'm Henry Comer, Jim's brother, and I've come to live with them. Here, let me take that water." "Wait a HE lifted both buckets. "They're too heavy for you," he said. "Jiminy cricket! You're no bigger than a linnet. Honest, are you sev" enteen? Jim says you ame." I owned up to being seventeen and he carried the water into the house. But we didn't see much of each other after that, for all we worked so close together. We were too busy. But we did get snatches of talk now and then, evenings after the dough was set.
Sometimes we stood out by the well, looking at the stars and the snow and the cold hills. I told him about the big dance 239 and found out that he was Crazy about dancing, too, and that he would be there. He wanted me to go with him, but there was my promise to father, and what could I do?
Nobody was ever sortier about a bargain than 1 was ovet that one. But how else could I get the hoops for my dress? I didn't lie awake nights, though, much as I was scheming and figuring.
When you're up at five-thirty of a morning and are kept busy washing dishes, scrubbing floors, and bending over washtubs you're glad to hit the pillow at night, and you go to bed to sleep. My! My! But I hardly got a chance to see how pretty the sun was, shining on the snow, unless I was out after water or hanging out clothes. The Comers had a little boy, David, who was a joy to be around. The first day I came he treated me like a guest, taking me to see a tree that he said was a "tree-apple" because it had apples on before the snow came. He showed me the mill and the well. He was a happy little coot, in spite of his solemn talk and his grown-up ways.
Henry adored him. He told me once that heaven could offer a man no greater blessing than a son like David. So the days went by and I was contented seeing Henry at meals, and sometimes in the evenings. I decided that it was better to go to the dance with Eph and get a few turns with Henry than to miss both, and I kept busier than corn in a poppet.
First thing I knew, Mrs. Comer's niece came to help her and I was free to go home, and there were only three days left before the dance. Wilson's store had a piece of red calico with small figures of blue, 240 black, and white. I bought that because red was my color, what with my dark curls and brown eyes. I got some big black buttons, too. The colors in our calico were much harder than in the prints we buy now, but I thought that was pretty. It was, too, lots prettier than homespun.
Mother was a good hand with the needle and she helped me cut out and fit the dress. But stitching at night by the unsteady flame of a small coal-oil lamp made doing a good job difficult, especially with so little time, and I was hard pressed to get my dress done.
Fact is, I didn't get the buttonholes worked. I just cut them and hoped that, what with the lining, they'd hold, and what with the big buttons, they wouldn't show. But the worst of it was that the afternoon of the dance it started to snow, and by evening it had whipped up into a right smart storm. The dance hall was a good two miles from our home, and father began to worty. He kept window-watching the weather, and finally, he said, "Elvira, my girl, it looks as if there'd be no dancing for you tonight." I looked up from the dishes I was washing and turned toward him, "Why not?" He said, "Look at the weather." "Who cares about the weather?" I asked, and slashed at a plate that was already clean. "T do," said father, "you can't go out in that blizzard. You'd freeze." I began to cry and said, ""Why did I work that hard all those weeks? And what is there to live for?" and a lot of other things. Then I went out the back door to throw out the dishwater. The wind nearly tore the pan from my hands. I returned and  pushed the door shut by backing up hard against it, and wiped the dishpan and hung it up. ATHER said, "You're not going out in that storm tonight." His gray eyes were getting narrower and narrower and he'd begun to twist his heavy black forelock. I began to be afraid that I really would have to stay at home. So I began to pet and coax. Finally, he picked up a chair and set it down hard and said, "'All right. If you can stand out in that weather for five minutes, I'll let you go to the dance." Whew, it was cold! And the wind! I could barely pull the door to behind me, but I did, and I went out and stayed out. I couldn't tell how long five minutes was and I didn't dare to go back in for fear it would be too soon and I'd lose out.
Father gave in first. He came out after me. So I got ready for the dance. I slipped on my new red calico and stood on a chair to see, by the mirror in mother's dresser, how the hoops hung. I climbed down and did a turn or two to view the tips of my new shoes before I calmed down and began to pin up my side curls and to coax my bangs to lie flat. I rubbed a little of the over-bright color of my cheeks down with a stolen pinch of mother's precious potato starch.
After awhile Eph came and mother gave us some bricks she had warmed and wrapped for my feet, and I put on my heavy coat. We had quilts and robes, and the going wasn't so bad. Anyway, when I was off to a dance, I was too excited to feel cold. THERE lS TRUTH But on the road I kept scheming for a way to get a little extra time with Henry. I thought and thought so much that I didn't notice when we drew up in front of the dance hall, till the team stopped and Eph made ready to hop down and help me out. I felt his big hand on my shoulder and reacted without thinking. I gave a little kick at just the wrong time at just the wrong angle. He caught his foot in my hoops and down he went sprawling onto the snow where the horses had trampled it hard. I scrambled down to help him, and there, in a strip of light from the doorway, stood Melissa. The sight of her gave me an idea.
Melissa lived only a short way from the hall; she was crazy over Eph.
What a set-up! I knelt down and began to make over Eph. I knew he wasn't injured, but Melissa didn't, and she'd give anything to walk into that party with Eph, or, at least, to keep me from doing it.
Melissa was beside us instantly and was helping Eph to his feet. She put her hand on his head, feeling for the bump. I stole a peek at the folks gathered around, and there was Henry, so I couldn't say another word. Besides, Eph was in tender hands, and capable ones, too.
More capable than I knew.
Melissa said, "Elvira, you can't do anything more to help. Why not go inside out of the cold? I'll take Eph over home. It's so near. I'll get him fixed up a little." She looked at Henry. "Do you know each other? I suppose not. Mr. Comer, may T present Miss Lowham? Perhaps, you wouldn't mind escorting her inside. That's a dear." And that set- 24) tled it for Melissa and Eph, and, I thought, for me and Henry, too. But I didn't know Henry. He crooked his arm and I took it and we hurried into the hall where the fiddlers were striking up a polka. I was thrilled! I do believe that if the lamps had been suddenly blown out, no one would have missed their light for the shine of me. And then I caught Henry's eyes.
They were as cold and forbidding as winter seas. He danced the first number with me, as it was his duty to do, but after that he kept as far away as the hall allowed. I tried not to show how it hurt, and I danced madly, a polka, a schottische or two, and a quadrille. We were tripping a varsovienne when Eph came in with Melissa. He had a headache, mostly plain temper, and he was dour as a camel. He danced a little, but not with me.
Mostly he sat on a bench and sulked. I saw Melissa arguing with Henry.
After a time she came to me and said, "Eph isn't feeling well and wants to go home, but he doesn't want to disturb your pleasure. Mr.
Comer will take care of you," and she was gone before I could say a thing. SOME fellow swung me off in a Virginia reel and it was then that the accident happened. He caught his finger in one of my unfinished buttonholes and made a rip in my basque. I grabbed it and held it together while I ran for my coat. When Henry asked if I wanted to go home, [T had no choice but to go with him, bad as he had treated me. All the way home all he'd sav was. "Yes." "Wiel" "No."
When he got out to lift me down 242 from the sleigh I asked him pointblank what had come over him. He said, "Miss Lowham, there is truth and there isa lie. One is good and the other is bad, and a man lives by his choice of the two. It's like a fork in the road. You can take the one on the right or the one on the left, but there is no middle way." He climbed into the sleigh and drove off without a glance at me, and I stood there in the path, realizing now why Melissa had been bossing Henry around all night.
They had come together and he had been standing in the shadow when Melissa stood in the light. He had seen and heard the whole show I had put on over Eph and had seen through it. I just stood and wondered how much shame and misery a_ heart could hold and still beat, and then I turned and went into the house. One thing I gained, I was rid of Eph.
Melissa took care of him for me for life.
They were married the very next month with a big reception and everything.
Henry was at the party, but he might as well have been in Klondike, so great was the coldness and distance in him. I tried to act merry, but I made a sorry mess of it.
Father thought that it was losing Eph that kept me low, because he knew nothing about me and Henty. Ill say this for him, though, he didn't give me one word of censure.
Spring came, and the spring dances, and I went with a different fellow every time, but even the dancing had lost its fun.
Then the news came about the Comers.
David had scarlet fever. Mrs. Comer's niece had got scared and gone home and left Mrs.
Comer sick herself and with no help. I told Mother that I was going back, and I went.  
When I walked into the Comer house everything was at sixes and sevens, dishes piled on the table, floors dirty, beds tumbled, and Mrs. Comer, who was so ill she should have been in bed herself, was fussing over David. "Why, Elvira," she said and lit up with relief. Then her face clouded and she said, "But it's catching, you know, unless you've had it. Have you?" I hurried into the kitchen before she could go into details. For two weeks I was too busy to know that I was alive. The men weren't staying at home, so there weren't the heavy meals and housework to do, but David was very sick, and Mrs. Comer was too weak to help much. The little shaver grew worse and we were afraid that he couldn't pull through. I prayed and prayed, silently, as I worked. My heart ached, and when there wasn't something pressing to be done I went into the kitchen and washed. I washed until there was nothing left with a speck of soil on it, and the time went by. The doctor came every day and I tried to do everything that he ordered as well as a nurse would have done, if we could have found a nurse, and finally David began to improve. The fever went away and he lay, a small white ghost of himself, and my throat ached when I looked into his great dark eyes. "Vira," he'd say, "tell me a tory." And I told him all the wee-wee stories I knew and made up others. When I'd say, "I don't know any more, David," he'd say, "Shing to me then." And I'd sing even when the deep notes came out more like sobs. And when his appetite was so ? | we Cried as | had never dare fore. ? next 4 sore throat and jt got more a Come to apologiz rg Te Taw, and | beOat or the know]. UP from his hat, but his glance fel] agai Vv Henry would know at I had taken the rame very jl]. Don't know, wh Jagoe 244 He
THE MERRILL LOCUST TREE
Rebecca Merrill Ostler My thoughts go back to the little house Of long remembered days, In dear simplicity it stood With unpretentious ways; And yet it was a restful place, Beneath the locust's shade, The spreading branches guarded well The home my parents made. I long for that old locust tree And for the birds to sing? My father often rested there In early days of spring. He brought the seed from old Nauvoo In the pioneer wagon train And planted it deep in the desert soil When he found a home again; The tall old tree brings memories More dear than I can tell? Long may the locust lend its shade To the home we loved so well. Our Number One Enemy?Cancer Compiled by the Field Army, Utah Division of the American Cancer Society HAT is cancer? Cancer is not a disease. It is the wild growth of lawless "gangster" cells that infiltrate the surrounding area and, if not treated or removed in time, "metastasize" (that is, break off and travel in the bloodstream or in the lymphatic fluids to other positions, where they set up in business again). The result is death to the individual by interference with vital organs, either at the site of the original growth or at a new site after metastasis. We dread cancer above all other diseases. Therefore, it stands rightly among the causes of suffering and death as mankind's Number One Enemy. Every year scientific advances make it possible to save more people from cancer. Every year we grow older, however, cancer increases as a personal danger. The race between these two factors is the vital thing which concers us. Weare concerned with it in every age of life. Even among _ babies, children, and youths, cancer takes an appalling toll. This year it will kill nearly 2,000
American boys and girls who will never live to see their twenty-first birthday. Statistics indicate that between the ages of five and nineteen years, cancer kills more children than all of the following diseases combined: scarlet fever, infantile paralysis, typhoid fever, meningitis, peritonitis, diphtheria, dysentery, diarrhea, and malaria. One in every six deaths among people of middle age is caused by cancer. Even among the aged, cancer is not as high a cause of death proportionately. Thus, a vast number of cancer's victims are stricken when still at the height of their powers?fathers and mothers with dependent children, men and women whom society and business can least spare. The Facts We Must Face The proportions of the cancer tragedy are shocking. Cancer killed 607,000
Americans between Pearl Harbor and V-J Day ?more than twice as many as were slain by the Germans and Japs. Right now, cancer is killing 175,- ooo Americans a yeat?478 every day?twenty every hour?one every three minutes. Cancer is the greatest killer of American women between the ages of thirty-five and fifty-four?the second greatest killer of American men. In Amenica today, it is estimated conservatively that more than 700,- ooo persons are suffering from cancer, and the total may approach 1,000,000. Yet, we can face with real hope facts even as terrible as these. When detected in time and treated effectively, cancer can be cured in a large proportion of cases. In ninety-five per cent of the cases, cancer of the skin or lip can be cured in its early stages?cancer of the breast or uterus in seventy-five per cent of the cases, if treated in time. It is estimated Page 245 246 that, on the basis of present knowledge alone, from thirty per cent to fifty per cent of all cancer can be cured through early recognition and effective treatment. For our nation as a whole, the cancer death rate is still alarmingly on the increase. But in those communities or among certain groups or citizens, where people have learned to recognize the danger signals of cancer and have proper facilities for treatment to which they turn quickly, cancer death rates are beginning to go down. For instance, one of our large insurance companies recently reported, for the first time, a definite downward trend in the cancer death rate among its white industrial policy holders over an entire decade. We ought to be turning the tide, however, not just for a part of our people, but for all of our people. This year, due largely to the efforts in which the American Cancer Society has played a leading part, the lives of 30,000
Americans will be saved from this terrible disease. But at least another 50,000 will die needlessly. They will die mainly because they lacked the knowledge to seek help early enough, or did not get the treatment they needed. We also have failed so far to do as much as we should to relieve the terrible suffering of those who cannot be saved and to increase constantly the proportion of those with good hope of salvation, through an adequate program of research. What We Must Do. We must press a comprehensive and relentless attack against cancer, upon all fronts?through education, adequate treatment, and_ research.  To do this, we need, first of all, an effective means for organizing and directing the fight against cancer. The basis for such an organization was laid in 1913 with the founding of the American Cancer Society. Although handicapped by insufficient funds, it pioneered the educational program which proved that an ever-increasing number of lives can be saved. The American Cancer Society now has enlisted the highest leadership, both medical and lay, that can be had. Last year it established a beachhead for a really comprehensive attack on cancer. With the aid of the National Research Council, it began the organization of a far-reaching program of cancer reseatch. This year, it plans not only greatly to increase its research, but to increase facilities for the treatment of cancer patients. It is essential that people learn to consult a doctor at the first sign of possible cancer and that new and better ways to fight cancer be found through research. People must have places to turn for effective treatment. No matter what programs the government may propose for the study of cancer, there remains the need for private institutions to carry on cancer and other related basic research. In order to make a real start toward providing better care for cancer patients, the goal of the American Cancer Society this year is to raise $12,000,000. Utah's goal is $35,700.00. This will provide funds for more and better diagnosis in cancer clinics, including x-ray film and radium, to help establish can- OUR NUMBER ONE ENEMY?CANCER cer detection centers at key points within the State, to help establish