[Vol2 | January 1915 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]
Notes from the Field. Salt Lake Stake Relief Society. The first organized stake of Zion in this intermountain region was the Salt Lake stake. The first Stake Board of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society was organized in 1877. There were then 46 branches scattered throughout the city and the county. That splendid pioneer mother, M. Isabella Home, was at that time made president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, and this position she held for nearly thirty years. Out of Salt Lake City and County have been organized seven stakes, each with its separate officers and distinct religious autonomy. In April, 1904, Mrs. Clarisssa S. Williams was chosen President of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society which position she held until Sept. 26, 1908, when she was released in order to give more time to the work of the General Board of which she was Treasurer. Her counselor. Mrs. Harriet B. Harker, was then made President of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, which position she holds to the present time. Shortly after she went into office, Mrs. Williams instituted weekly meetings, as it was considered impossible to accomplish everything desired, in the monthly or semi-monthly meetings. Studies have been outlined and printed, and great activity along all lines has constantly marked the work of this great, original stake. Three years ago, under the direction of the priesthood, special meetings were called and missionaries appointed to visit every woman in the stake. This accomplished a great deal of good. Since the General Board have issued outlines, this stake has chosen committees of three to take charge of the genealogical study, and of the mother's work. Monthly meetings are held in the famous old Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall. This is a united Board, and a spirit of cheerful activity permeates every branch of their work. Ogden Stake. Out of the many stakes which have been organized in the past five years, the Ogden stake is, perhaps, one of the most active. It was organized on the 19th of July, 1908. the Ogden stake being an of shoot from Weber stake. There are ten wards in the stake, and the stake and ward officers hold weekly stake board meetings in connection with the presidency of the stake, and the
