[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: AMELIA WHITE FARNSWORTH. | Author: ANNIE M. P]

			AMELIA WHITE FARNSWORTH.


a nice present on the tree, I wonder what it
will be, O I think I know what Fred will
give me, a wedding ring but you’ll not need
one for a long time yet said Hess, Harry will
be till next Christmas making up his mind.”
She said this with a merry laugh, which
showed her dimples.
	December 25th 1841.  The tables were set
in the dining hall, the fenders bright, and a fire
made of wood in the grate, every thing neat
and in order, and nothing lacking to make a
merry Christmas.
	Knock, knock, at the hall door indicated
that the visitors were coming to partake of
the hospitality of the good old folks at the
mansion.  While peals of laughter were heard
in the hall as each visitor entered the parlor.
There hung Tom in effigy in the tree look-
ing so natural that the girls thought it was
really himself up there.  He had placed the
tree in a nook and stood the figure face out,
standing tall as life, he was the first up and
hid to see what effect it would have on the
girls when they went in.  He had not long
to wait as they were the next up to see what
presents were there for them.  Lucia and
Hessie made such a racket with their laughter
and exclaiming “there’s Tom in the tree,”
their noise brought the old folks.  They
went around to shake him and saw his bit of
fun, pa and ma were quite delighted with the
surprise.  Tom chuckled at his success.  Mrs.
Grover stepped into her sitting room and
placed her things of industry on the tree.
They all saw their presents and were delighted
Tom came out of his hiding place and found
his socks, when he was pleased he made rhymes
and expressed himself. “Ar’n’t they nice.”
		The old ones are the worse for wear
		And so I've got another pair.
	They left the tree as it was found, Mamie
the cook came in for her share of presents
and fun, and the dog Rover got a silver
collar a present from Tom.  The bride looked
lovely in her white satin dress, white slippers
and a white rose in her curls; her dress was
made plain, and she looked like the nymph
of the woods.  The groom looked all smiles
and happiness itself.
	When the ceremony was performed, and
now kiss your wife, she looked into his face
and with a smile said “my dear Fred I have
now got my Christmas wish I wished for you:
at this moment a gentle timid knock was
heard at the door, and Tom led in from the
cold without a waif, a poor boy who said “I
am hungry give me a piece of bread, I have
no home.” The tender-hearted Lucia took the
boy’s hand and led him to her pa “please take
him for your adopted son, this is my
Christmas wish, sister’s and mine have
both come to pass."
					ANNIE M. P.
Nov. 25th, 1889.


[Column 1]
