[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: OUR HOME HERE AND HEREAFTER. | Author: M. M]

OUR HOME HERE AND HEREAFTER.

	Let us imagine 'tis Spring! and every-
thing is bright and beautiful: all living
things are filled with new life and vigor.
Man, the noblest work of God, is light-
hearted and happy, ready to commence
another year of labor. The birds are
singing, bees are humming, and the
innumerable voices of life are listened
to with thankfulness to our Maker. Homes
of every description are being built by the
various inhabitants of the earth; the sky is
a deep, clear blue, free from all clouds, and
the sun that has been hidden for so long
now shines forth in all his glory, casting his
warm rays upon the damp earth, causing
vegetation to spring forth; the trees that
have been bare for so long are undergoing
a change preparatory to regaining their
rich foliage and verdure; the brooks and
rivers are filled and gushing over with clear
sparkling water, and all nature seems fresh
and new. Time rolls on. Summer takes
the place of spring, all nature is in its ma-
tured state, and every thing at its height,
and we experience all the pleasure and
buoyancy which summer brings to the ad-
mirer of nature's perfection; this passes by
and gives way to Autumn, the busiest of
all seasons; the fresh green verdure which
looks so cool and pleasant has undergone a
change; bright, brilliant hues have taken
the place of the green foliage and shrubbery,
and when looking at them we know it is
the brightening up before death, that it is
near the time of decay for them; rich, lus-
cious fruit weighs down the branches of the
trees, the grasses are withering and the
leaves are falling; it is at this season we
have our glorious sunsets, when it seems as
if the whole heavens were illuminated, one
blaze of living light, and it occurs to us
that all inanimate nature is giving one last
heroic struggle before death. The last of
the successive seasons is winter; black
clouds are heaped up in the sky, the winds
are whistling and the frost is biting, but is
this winter really cheerless and cold to us?
No, if we have warm, comfortable homes, are

[COLUMN 2]

surrounded by friends, and above all if we
have warm hearts; it is then that friends
and families have most opportunity of con-
versational intercourse with each other, ex-
changing visits, and enjoying each other's
society at home and around the fireside; it
is then that we should use every effort to
make our homes pleasant and happy, so
that everything will be bright and cheerful
within, no matter how cold and cheerless
without; it is then we can most fully enjoy
the profits of our former labor; this is the
earthly home our Father gives temporarily,
in order to protect ourselves from the tem-
pest; we build structures or houses, and
consequently shut out the beauties of nature
it is therefore necessary that we should
beautify the interior of our dwellings; there
are a variety of ways in which we can do it
and benefit ourselves. Do not our lives
compare with that of nature? The life of
mankind upon the earth compares well with
the variety of nature's seasons. We are
sent upon earth, to do a certain work;
why should we not do that work uncom-
plainingly and grow up good, strong and
wise men, and women so that our Father
would be proud of us? The farmer who
plants his trees is proud of those that with-
stand all the tests of the elements, and
grow up to be large and stalwart, and speaks
of those that wither and become dwarfed
and ugly as not of much worth, perhaps we
are judged likewise.
	If we live faithfully through the Spring,
Summer and Fall of our lives, according to
the dictation of our heavenly Father, the end
will be as our home in winter and warm
within we will be ready to meet our Father
with a clear conscience and unblushing faces,
and we will know we are worthy of holding a
high position in the kingdom of God, for
He will be pleased with us, and we will be
rewarded according to our works.
	M. M.


