RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 293
AMY BROWNLYMAN GENERAL PRESIDENCY AND GENERAL SECRETARY OF  were in charge of the music, and no pains were spared by these leaders to make it a real feature. The Grant stake furnished the ushers for all the meetings, and the promptne's with which the large audiences were seated was a tribute to their efficiency. Officers' Meeting (Morning Session) Counselor Jennie B. Knight I trust that the beautiful prayer that has been offered in our behalf will be answered this day, and I see no reason why it should not be answered. I pray that the Lord will bless me with His holy spirit that the things I have to do may be done acceptably to Him; and then, if they are acceptable to Him, I am sure they will be acceptable to you and to all with whom I have the great pleasure to labor.
There is a saying that continual rest is rust, and that real life lies in love and laughter and work. All of you have had the pleasure of making preparations for your daughters to come to your homes to celebrate a Thanksgiving or a birthday or a Christmas, or a family gathering, and your hearts have throbbed with the joy of the preparation. No stone has been left unturned that those who come to your home may have continual happiness while they sojourn under your roof. Such have been the feelings, my dear sisters, of the officers in preparing for the return of their daughters to this, our Relief Society home, that you might have joy and satisfaction, that you might be built up in your hearts and in your minds and in your spirits, to carry on the work that you have to do when you return to your various localities. We have tried to make you happy, and to prepare a feast for you; and President Williams has worked earnestly that this conference might be a success. It was at her suggestion that we have department work this year; and the committees that have been appointed for the different divisions have certainly not only worked but they have prayed and they have studied, that their work might be a success and that you might be partakers of it.
We are thankful to our heavenly Father that so many of you have been privileged to come here. Now, we know that owing to the great sorrow that has come to our beloved president you would scarcely expect her to participate through words in this conference; but you know that we have her love and devotion and wisdom, and we are delighted that she is here this morning. We pray that you may go home filled with the joy you have in seeing her with us today.
We want you to make yourselves at home here in this building, and feel that it is really your home, and to ask the questions that come to your mind regarding the work. We are sorry for the stakes that have been called upon to part with some of their loved ones and their presidents, and we are grateful to our heavenly Father that He has raised up women to fill the positions of those who have passed on; we bespeak for them the love and friendship of this great body of women. We trust that the new officers may feel just as much at home as those that have been here before. We want you all to know that we are anxious to do everything we can for you, not only at this conference but when we go out into the conventions to help you. Our only desire is to be of service.
We have a few suggestions which we desire to make at this time.
Class Leaders' Convention: The General Board recommends that each stake in the Church hold this year a class leaders' convention instead of a visiting teachers' convention. A class leaders' convention would include all the Relief Society stake and ward executive and special officers, also the stake and ward class leaders. Following are some suggestive topics: Morning session, "Teacher Training," "Better Methods of Teaching," "Better Teachers," "Discussion;" afternoon session, departmental work of the following groups: presidents, secretaries, choristers and organists, theology class leaders, literary class leaders, social service class leaders and work committee, the departments to be conducted under the direction of stake leaders. A most successful class leaders' convention was held in Deseret stake last year.
Sustaining Visiting Teachers: The General Board recommends that Relief Society visiting teachers be sustained at Relief Society ward conferences. They may be sustained in a group, but it is preferable that their names be read.
Receiving New Members: The General Board recommends that all new Relief Society members be voted in at a regular Relief Society meeting, preferably at the work and business meeting; also that where Relief Society women remove from one ward to another, they be received also by formal vote.


Group Conventions: It has been observed that often at the group conventions the Relief Society does not have large enough rooms for their meetings. The General Board recommends that Relief Society stake presidents consult early with the Priesthood presidents and make the best arrangements possible for rooms for the group conventions. It is also recommended, that Relief Society stake officers make it a point to invite the local priesthood to the Relief Society sessions of the group conventions, and give them special seats on the stand or at the front of the room.
Tonight we are to have an entertainment in the Tabernacle, the Relief Society Review?a magnificent pageant to be given under the supervision of the Salt Lake county stakes. A rich treat is in store for you there. A beautiful souvenir booklet, provided by the women who have arranged this Review, will be given to each of you. We wish to thank the Salt Lake county stakes, which have loyally come to our support by preparing this excellent exhibit, in reproducing, for the special benefit of this conference, this inspiring Review.
Thursday morning, at 7:30, we shall have our presidents' breakfast. The stake and mission presidents are invited to be the guests of the General Board on this occasion. A portion of the time will be devoted to a discussion of some of our problems.
Thursday will be devoted to two general sessions in the Assembly Hall.
ANNUAL REPORT
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
The annual report of the Society was read and briefly discussed by the Secretary. One of the most interesting features of the report was the increase in the average attendance from 20,661 last year to 22,590. This growth was attributed to the deeper interest which was taken this year in the excellent course of study. A gain in receipts in the various departments during the year and a growth in the various activities was shown in the report.
The present membership is 61,820 as against 61,289 last year?a gain of 531 members during the year. The membership includes 10,250 executive and special officers, 20,565 visiting teachers, and 31,005 lay members. 1,312 ward conferences were held during the year, which means that conferences were held in the great majority of the wards and branches. The visiting teachers made 686,605 visits to families, and in addition 189,302 visits were made to the sick and homebound. For charitable purposes, $100,105.39 was paid. The total assets of the Society are listed at $1,004,385.18, all funds being held locally. (For full report see May, 1928, Relief Society Magazine.)
Reorganizations were reported as follows: Idaho stake, reorganized, October 29, 1927, Mrs. Delia Lechtenberg, released;
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 295
Mrs. Alta Childs appointed president. Grant stake, November, 1927, Mrs. May Silver passed away, Mrs. Blanche W. Daynes appointed president. Weber stake, January, 1928, Mrs. Aggie H. Stevens, passed away; Mrs. Marianne Browning appointed president. Shelley stake, February 4, 1928, Mrs. Mary E. Freeman, released; Mrs. Cora M. Christensen appointed president. Nebo stake, March 25, 1928, Mrs. Hepsy Sperry Lewis, released; Mrs. May Harding appointed president.
DR. FRANKLIN G. EBAUGH Director, Colorado Psychopathic Hospital
I have been asked to talk on the subject of a state program for the care of the mentally defective. Being a visitor, I hope I am privileged to tell you the facts as I see them, regarding the state of Utah. I have read Dr. Wallace's report, which is very complete, and the recommendations that he has already made are certainly the only recommendations to be made.
It is surprising to me in that I am from an adjoining state, a similar state in many ways, except a poorer state regarding per capita work, a state that is slightly above the population of this state, to find that you have not an institution for mental defectives, and that you are treating your feeble-minded population by placing them in an over-crowded state hospital for the insane; likewise you are placing the feeble-minded in the state industrial home, and in various other institutions. It is also my understanding that special school work, which is far beyond the experimental stage and has proved successful during the past ten years, has just had its beginning in Utah.
This latter condition is one that is easily remedied, possibly easier in Utah than in many of the other states, because you have so many organizations actively interested in welfare work. All advancement along social and moral lines comes from the general public, and it comes from organizations of this type. You could create a public demand in a short time to remedy this condition.
Likewise, in looking up statistics, I was more than amazed to find that Utah is the last of all the states in the matter of the care of mental defectives. It is classed with two other states, Mississippi and Nevada. Each of these states, has recently passed through their state legislature, a bill authorizing an institution for the care of feeble-minded. Nevada passed this bill over the governor's veto. Surely it is possible, through public demand, to make this necessary step for Utah. I am more than amazed to find that Utah does not have a single institution for this work. I must say also that I am greatly surprised to find that the L. D. S. Hospital, the hospital which we have heard so


much about during the past four years as one of the most representative hospitals of the west, has not an out-patients' department.
As for state care of mental defectives, a very definite program has been already devised. It has proved successful for over fifteen years in the state of Massachusetts. This plan comprehends the following steps: First, identification and registration of all feeble-minded individuals throughout the entire state. For years we have been registering the acute infectious diseases, and the first step for state-wide care of mentally defective children consists of having each feeble-minded individual in every community registered, so that you know the total number of feeble-minded population. This is easily accomplished through a survey, and with a very little expense. Traveling clinics or a clinical survey would enable you, in a few months, to identify and register all the feeble-minded in your entire state.
Knowing the population and realizing the problem (I would estimate that in the state of Utah you most likely have from 3000 to 5000 feeble-minded children to take care of,) the second step would be to provide adequate instruction. You would then classify the group. The lower types, the idiots and the imbeciles, should be placed in a training school. Please call such an institution a training school, and please provide in this school all the necessary equipment for proper training. It is possible for the low types of mental defectives to be so trained that they will be able to take care of themselves in an industrial way. From the institution I am quoting, over one-third of the inmates have been discharged to help out in various factories and industrial enterprises.
After two years, a careful survey was made regarding the individuals who had been trained in this institution. It was found that 220 patients earned $222,000 per year, a little more than an average of $1000. Two cases have impressed me very much. One man, an imbecile, had a mental age of six, yet he received a prize for the best section of track, working for a railroad. He earned, on an average, $25.00 a week. Thus the returns in real dividends are not to be under-estimated in comparison with the cost of caring for these individuals. I am speaking of low-minded types of feeble-minded individuals?types for which we have thought there was little possibility of training.
Another case is that of a man who was discharged to a farmer. The farmer says that when John first came he seemed very peculiar; but as the family learned to understand him, they got along fine. The first thing that happened to John was that he left a two-horse team and wagon in the middle of the field at seven o'clock. The farmer could not locate John in the surrounding fields, nor in the barn, but he finally located him sleeping peacefully in his bed, at 7:30. John said, "I am sorry; I have been going to
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 297
bed for the last five years at seven o'clock." He continued automatically the habit instituted at the training school. John was a very productive worker. All but ten percent of the group discharged from this institution made a very satisfactory economic adjustment.
The third step in state-wide care of the mentally defective implies more than training schools; it implies the organization of special classes and vocational work in the public schools, and includes also supervision from the viewpoint of the community, and supervision is very much needed. I recall examining several feeble-minded boys in a clinic. The youngest had a mental age of six, but from a mechanical viewpoint he had a mental age of twelve, practically normal. (We accept twelve and fourteen as normal. The army statistics showed an average mental age of thirteen.) This lad was making no progress in school; in fact, he had spent four years in the fourth grade. After school he was working as an automobile mechanic and receiving a salary of from $15 to $18 a week for this work, an average salary for that community. After each pay-day, in fact before he had a chance even to reach his home, I found that most of this money would be taken from him through gambling games and games of chance, in which he did not have the judgment or ability to discriminate. This boy was also unable to make change. If you should give him a simple test, for instance ask him how much change he would receive from $1 after buying four dozen eggs at 20c, he would be unable to give you the change. Special supervision can do away with that sort of danger. This boy has made a very good adjustment. A social service worker followed him up and made arrangements with his employer for the money to be turned over to the family, where he played a very important role in the matter of support.
Thus far I have mentioned identification and registration of the feeble-minded, instruction of the feeble-minded, supervision of the feeble-minded that have not been institutionalized; and a very large percentage of your feeble-minded population you do not have to institutionalize. The fourth step is that of institutionalization. It is estimated that only ten percent of the feeble-minded will need to be placed in institutions, and these are the defective, delinquent class and those who have very definite traits of general delinquency. From one percent to four percent of school children are feeble-minded; but only a small majority of feeble-minded individuals have vicious habits. They do not constitute the criminal class. The feeble-minded are not necessarily delinquent, or vicious and unstable. This fact is a challenge to the community, which should develop desirable habits in the feeble-minded, instead of inactivity and idleness. There are good as well as bad defectives. De-


fectives are often productive. In fact, the economic background of this country would be retarded years, if it were not that feeble-minded people are productive. The high grade moron can do some work better than individuals with superior intelligence. For instance, the routine work of farms and factories depends almost entirely on our morons.
The personality types of feeble-minded individuals are very interesting in the majority of cases. They are industrious, if properly guided. They are naturally docile; but certain groups are sullen and cruel. In general, they have the desire to be respectable, a desire that can be encouraged by community organization. In Syracuse, New York, a series of apartment houses have been turned over entirely (including the management of and collecting of rent) to a group of feeble-minded boys and girls who have been discharged from the state institutions. They are not only maintaining themselves but are earning considerable money.
You need a fairly definite state program, if you would expand out of that your initial organization. If you cannot attempt a complete program, I would not advise any half-way measure. You need a state institution for the feeble-minded population, and it is amazing that a state of this type does not have one. Because you can profit by their mistakes, you have a better opportunity, I think, than any other western state to put forth a real community and state-wide organization for the care of the mentally deficient?a program that should be better than those that have been established in older and better organized eastern communities.
In conclusion I would urge you not to neglect your country population. The most pleasant contacts that we have had at the Colorado Hospital have been those that we have in our clinics, from 115 to 120 country communities. If Utah develops a state-wide program and a central administration as advised by Dr. Wallace, I feel sure that in a few years, instead of being the last, that you will be among the foremost in caring for defectives.
The Relief Society has great possibilities in fostering and assisting in the work, and you can organize and socialize more and more the work that this society has already begun as a relief organization. I am more than surprised at the representation here. I do not know of any similar representation in the state of Colorado in any contacts that I have had. If you create a demand, you need not worry about any legislature or any political or other phase of the work. It is the community's responsibility; and if you work from that standpoint, there is no doubt but that means will be readily and easily found for you to complete the organization.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 299
BETTER FILMS
Mrs. Julia A. Child, Member of General Board
The moving picture came so recently and has developed so rapidly, being such a force in the entertainment and education of people, that we have not been able to adjust ourselves to it. Twenty years ago if anybody had said that from six to ten millions of people would attend the moving picture shows daily in the United States, we would have been skeptical. Today, however, for good or for ill, we must accept it as a fact. People are being fed on the pictures, some are good and some bad, furnished to show houses all over the land. To eliminate, as far as possible, the evil, and encourage the good, through this new but influential avenue of entertainment and education, it is necessary for us to analyze carefully the whole situation and act cooperatively. We should guide this new power, to make it improvement and uplift as well as entertainment.
It is recognized by psychologists everywhere that a very large percentage of all the learning we gain comes through the eye. The eye is often called the intellectual sight. It is important, therefore, in the interest of mental and moral life, that the environment provided be only that which is beautiful and good to see. We hear educators say that children and people become like that which they see often, and enjoy. He who sees and loves the great outdoors is at heart a naturalist; and he who sees and loves art is already an artist in his heart. The continued seeing of nature and the beauty of form and color have made them which they are. Seeing well dressed, fine, clear-eyed people exercises a wonderful influence. That which comes through the ear has great influence also, especially an influence on the mind; but without the eye, in a large way, hearing lacks the appeal to the judgment which is the crowning glory of man.
Pictures, which reach the mind through the eye, have a potent influence either for good or for ill; either they lead to a higher realm of spiritual life, or else they lead downward to sin. Fraught with great possibilities for good, educational work and higher forms of entertainment may be portrayed by them. Commercial agencies have monopolized this great means of entertainment by appealing to the lower emotions, and the pictures have often been so vile and full of suggestion that seeing them can have no other than detrimental effects on the individual and on the social welfare.
Joseph B. Tigert, U. S. Commissioner of Education, has said that motion pictures exert a greater influence upon the youth of the nation than does the public school. Our laws require a high standard of qualification and fitness for our teachers, yet we have no adequate regulation for this great industry, which influ-


ences the child's mind to a greater degree than do the public schools. Can we, as mothers, afford to ignore the character and effect of such a force in the education of our children? What is to be our attitude toward it? Are we to help shape and develop, or are we to ignore it?
I think we all agree that there is a place for the "movies" and a function for them to fulfill. The point that we are concerned about is what they are, what they can do, and what they are doing to our developing young people. What standards are our children learning from them? Are they getting cheap and vulgar ideas of the fine relationships of life, or are they learning to admire and understand them? Are they learning what courage, honor, and faith really are, or are they getting cheap substitutes?
There are many splendid pictures. Lists of these are published in magazines. Published in Indianapolis, is The National Indorsers of Photoplays, a little paper put out monthly by a group of picture-loving people. Any group can have this little paper simply by writing to the publishers in Indianapolis. Its paper carries every month select articles about moving pictures; also a list of pictures suitable for children's matinees, others suitable for older people. The Child's Welfare Magazine, the official magazine of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, sometimes carries lists of undesirable pictures. Another magazine is Children. This is a parents' magazine. It carries a list with comments, every month, about good and bad pictures.
Unfortunately our Church committee, under the direction of the Mutual Improvement Associations, is not now able to approve pictures as they have done before. Our State university had, until last year, a visual education department; and our committee, composed of members of the M. I. A. were permitted to go up and censor pictures. They published a list of good pictures in the Young Woman's Journal last year, of pictures released within the last three years. This department is now closed and there is no place where this committee can preview pictures. It costs from $8 to $10 to preview a picture.
The next problem is how to get the community to take advantage of these worth-while pictures after we have found out what they are. The real test of public interest lies in the support given the picture. It has been suggested that in each community a group of women, representing the various organizations, visit the first-run of a picture, and report their impressions as quickly as possible, either for or against, to their organizations, and have courage to report against a picture, if it is not good. Members of the organizations should be notified as quickly as possible, either by telephone or other means, and should be encouraged to attend the good pictures. The Federation of Women's Clubs in California have sponsored what they call attendance parties.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 301
Large groups of women, sometimes a thousand at once, will attend some particularly good picture, to show to the producers that they appreciate good pictures. In another state, where a very active group of women have been at work for years, definite steps are being taken to give publicity to special pictures. For instance, when the "King of Kings" was presented recently, the Parent-Teachers' Association notified every member that this picture was going to be shown; every Sunday School teacher was notified and asked to tell the members of her class about it. This committee has gone farther, and pledged themselves that when a really good picture is upon the screen, they will end every telephone conversation by commenting on this good picture, and in that way get people anxious to see it.
The editor of the largest film trade journal in the country says this: "Motion pictures especially printed for children are put on successfully in a great many places in the country. The theater manager in practically every instance is anxious to put on such a program, and needs only the encouragement and cooperation that may be properly rendered by women's organizations." This puts it rather up to us to see that our children get the best, does it not?
Better films will win out only when thinking people work concertedly together for their final victory over the vulgar, trashy and bad. In your own community you can start a movement for better films. There should be general protest against unwholesome pictures and praise, commendation and encouragement for the better kind.
MRS. KATHERINE R. STEWART President, Hollywood Stake Relief Society
My dear sisters, it is a great honor to have this opportunity of making a brief report of one of the activities carried on in the original Los Angeles stake, which of course included the two present stakes. At the time the stake was organized in Los Angeles, the Church up to that time had had no affiliation with outside organizations, and we knew that we could not progress in this great Relief Society work alone, that we had to cooperate with others. So, with the consent of the stake presidency, we began to cooperate with various social welfare agencies.
A Child Guidance Clinic was to be organized and social welfare organizations and relief agencies were asked to join them. We decided to join; each ward gave $5, and the stake made up the rest for our stake membership. A number of our women also took out individual memberships. Dr. Miriam VanWaters, who is one of the judges of the Juvenile Court and vice-president of the state Welfare Organization of California, was vice-president of this Child Guidance Clinic, as well as President of the Girls' Business


Home. She met and welcomed us most heartily, inviting us to join the state organization also, which we did. We were invited to visit the Girls' Home, where we found them trying to furnish it; so we bought a living-room set consisting of a davenport, table, chairs and piano lamp, and sent it to the home. In response to this gift we received a courteous and appreciative letter, thanking us heartily.
We have also assisted the Children's Hospital, an institution used by a number of our needy people. It had taken good care of our children and had not charged anything where families were needy, and only a nominal sum where families could afford to pay something. Each ward made articles for the hospital; in all we presented 214 pieces. They also were most appreciated.
Since we joined the state social welfare organization, we have sent delegates to all the conventions. They have been held in Pasadena, Long Beach, Los Angeles, and the last one in Sacramento. At this convention we were invited to make an exhibit of our work. They had saved a booth for us; and we took special pains to have each ward make some of the best articles they could to decorate the booth. We displayed layettes and the maternity bundles. We had special banners and distributed a pamphlet outlining our work and reporting the things that the L. D. S. Women, through the Relief Society, had done during the war.
We hold one social welfare convention each year, when we have the finest speakers in Los Angeles, both within and without the Church, and they are all delighted with our work. Following are some of the topics we have discussed: Cooperation of Home and School in Crime Prevention; How to Cooperate with the County Charities; Explanation of the Community Chest; Objects of Los Angeles Stake Relief Society Social Service Work.
MARY A. CLARK President, Maricopa Stake Relief Society
I truly feel honored in occupying a few moments of your valuable time. The conference committee asked that we speak of some outstanding thing that our Relief Society had been doing. What the women of Arizona have done for the Arizona temple may be interesting to you.
When we knew for a fact that we were to have a temple in our land, and that our dreams were to be realized, the Maricopa stake Relief Society was asked to contribute $1,000 toward the building. We immediately went to work and by bazaars, our penny fund, concessions at fair, cooked food sales, cotton picking, and, in fact, by everything that was hard (although we received great joy from our labor), we raised $1,450. Of this we turned over $500 to the building committee. We purchased
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 303
an electric sewing machine and the best washable material we could buy, and made three complete changes of veil and washroom curtains throughout the temple. We made sample temple suits and baptismal suits, then sent to each stake in the temple district, asking them to make ten complete suits of each, which they did, with the exception of Mexico, which sent us the money to make six suits. Every stake responded loyally and expressed willingness to do more. Maricopa made twenty-six complete suits.
We bought material for towels and baptismal suits and asked the Y. L. M. I. A. to make forty of these suits and all the towels. The Y. L. M. I. A. presented a beautiful bridal airline robe for the temple. This we call our bridal costume and it is worn by our brides. The Primary Association made forty baptismal suits. They also made, for the nursery, two beautiful quilts from the pieces left from these suits. We equipped the nursery with beds and chairs.
We bought the best material for table runners, altar covers, chair backs, and pulpit covers, and allotted it to each ward, asking them to do their own designing and to use their best workmanship. When it was all returned to the temple, we had 144 pieces in all, and we were very proud of this work?embroidery and cut work, and yards of beautiful tatting. It is estimated that 1879 hours were spent in this work. One sister told me that she had spent three hours a day for seven weeks on the piece that was allotted to her. The stake board spent weeks in sewing. They would take luncheon and spend the entire day sewing at the temple.
About two months ago the stake board prepared and served a banquet to sixty-five of the temple workers. We have been very happy and proud in doing our bit to help make it possible to have a temple in the great southland, where many thousands of the Latter-day Saints, who never had a chance to do their own work or work for their kindred dead, will now have the privilege of doing so; and it means much to our noble pioneers who have spent their days making the desert blossom as the rose, that they can now spend the evening of their lives working in the temple of their God.
In the four months since its dedication, 13,000 baptisms, 7,000 endowments, and 26,000 ordinances have been performed.
Another part of our work was demonstrated a few weeks ago when a little colony of fifty-five of our people came from Oklahoma to find employment in the cotton fields of our valley. Very soon their provisions were diminished and they were destitute. You could not conceive of greater destitution and want. The Relief Society president of the ward they resided in felt that this was a problem almost beyond her, so we asked each ward president to assist. They gathered up dishes, clothing and bedding, food, money, and everything necessary. When all collected, it


was given out to these people, making it possible for them to go to Sunday School and to other meetings. May our Father in heaven guide us always in giving the right help.
From the reports received from the General Board, the average attendance on department work is not quite 50%. But their attendance was better than that reported from the Stake board. We are interested in getting room for department work; but not 50% have room for department work. We think this is excellent. There were two or three stakes (and I think the report was quite pathetic) that had plenty of room, but did not have time because they had to meet up with our Priesthood and see if some other condition could not exist, because without department work, you students are handicapped in getting people to donate more money than they are able to contribute.
One of the stakes which I visited had a very intelligent Stake board, who explained to me that one of the Ward Presidents, who made a small contribution, had to work with the Priesthood. However, we are wondering if we could not take
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 305
this up with our Priesthood officials, because when I became a member of the stake board, that contributions were necessary. For years we have been asking that the officers of every stake and ward read the instructions in the record books. The stakes often write for information that is found in the records. Out of the number of questionnaires that we looked over, forty of the stakes read these instructions; the others did not. Not quite half of the stakes bind their Magazines. Very few stakes report that all the Relief Society people pay their own annual dues. In many instances, the wards or stake have to supplement the dues. Five stakes reported 100% of their membership as paying annual dues; and over 30, that more than 80% paid their annual dues.
I visited one stake last fall that I thought had a beautiful idea. In one ward of that stake there were a number of dear old ladies who had helped carry the load of the Relief Society, but now, because of financial conditions, they could not very well pay their dues. So the ward president, each year, writes a dear little note on the birthday of each of these sisters, telling her how happy the women are that she is one of the members of the Relief Society, and how they appreciate her efforts, and adding that for a birthday present they would like to have her accept her membership due in the Relief Society. This note is sometimes accompanied with a flower or other token.
Women who have been in the Relief Society a long time know that the interest on the wheat fund is a sacred trust and should be used only for specific purposes. There are 46 stakes out of the 65 which used their wheat fund interest religiously for health purposes. There was a pathetic thing?two or three reported that all of the wheat fund was lost. I am sure these sisters would have given it for health if they had had it. But some stakes have used wheat interest just as they saw fit.