Officers' Meeting (Afternoon Sessions) Theological and Literary Departments Salt Lake Assembly Hall
Counselor Louise Y. Robison, presiding Theological Section, Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, member General Board, Conducting
President Nephi L. Morris addressed the Theological section on the subject, "What is the Value of Theological Study to Women?" This was followed by brief discussions by Mrs. Lizzie B. Owen, president of Cache stake, on "Has Your Faith Been Strengthened by Studies in Theology?" and by Mrs. Bessie G.


Ballard, president of Logan stake, on "Have the Theological Lessons Increased Your Desire to Read the Scriptures?"
Mrs. Owen testified as follows:
My faith has been greatly increased through a study of the theology lessons, which have taught that throughout all the dispensations God has spoken to his people through his prophets, and that the measure in which they have prospered or suffered has been in proportion to their obedience to his commandments. In reading of God's dealings with his saints who lived anciently, we find that he was always kind and merciful, loving and forgiving, and that he labored with them at all times to live righteous lives; that in all dispensations he had prophets to lead and guide his people, and that the blessings we enjoy today are measured by our knowledge of our heavenly Father and his laws and our obedience to them.
It has increased my faith to know that the prophets who lived in ancient times saw in vision the restoration of the Gospel in this dispensation, that their prophecies concerning it and the coming forth of the Book of Mormon were recorded in ancient times, and that I have been privileged to live and see the fulfilment of these prophecies. It has strengthened my faith to become acquainted with the ancient prophets, and to know that at all times the leaders of God's people were filled with courage, integrity, and faithfulness. It has increased my faith to learn of the wonderful women who lived in ancient times and the important part they played in the great drama of life; to learn of Christ, our Master, to know that his teachings have been preserved for us, and that we can apply them just as well today as they were applied anciently; to know that the same organizations that existed in the primitive church and the same gifts and blessings enjoyed anciently, have again been restored to the earth.
It has increased my faith to know of the courage, integrity, and faithfulness of our Prophet Joseph Smith, and to know that he sealed his testimony with his blood as did prophets in ancient times. The greater our knowledge of our heavenly Father and his will concerning us, the greater will be our service to God and our fellow-men. Christ said: "He that would be greatest among you, let him be the servant of all."
Mrs. Ballard said:
It is my observation that the lessons on theology have stimulated in a very marked degree the study and individual research of the scriptures. The test questions of the lessons serve as a challenge to our knowledge of the subject, to the end that greater efforts are put forth in preparation work and thereby greater knowledge is attained. We have truly come to feel that the scriptures are as a "lamp to our feet," that they should occupy some time each day, for they will give such growth and uplift as will not be found elsewhere. The Apostle Paul said to the Romans, "For whatsoever things
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 307
were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope." Christ, the great teacher, said, "Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me."
Intelligent reading of the scriptures gives a breadth of vision, a fineness of perception, a culture, a moral strength, a spiritual outlook, that are beyond price. If in every home a heartfelt reading of the scriptures were a daily practice, the family would be drawn together in unison and love, and there would be a spiritual atmosphere created that would beneficially affect the entire life of each member. Our theology lessons have unfolded to us to a very marked degree God's love and his great concern for us his children, and have given us a greater insight into his plans for the exaltation of man.
President Nephi L. Morris's address will appear in a later issue.