Planning the Work Meetings Leone G. Layton Member, General Board of Relief Society and Chairman, Work Meeting Committee ORK meeting leaders should begin planning their next season's (1949-50) work meeting program now. Each leader is aware of the needs and interests of the women with whom she is working and should, at this time, be able to make general plans for an appropriate program which will accomplish the purposes of the Rehef Society work meeting in her locality. Activity on this day should be planned with the following purposes in view: 1. To enable the women to give service in the Church Welfare Plan by assisting in filling the Welfare clothing budget assignment. 2. To give service to the ward Relief Society organization by participating in activities beneficial to the local society. 3- To foster and develop creative and homemaking skills. 4. To promote a feeling of friendly sociability within the group by working together in pleasant association. Each of these purposes should be considered fully in programming the day's activities in order that the greatest possible good may be gained from the meeting. Our first obligation on this day is to fill the Welfare clothing budget assignment. In doing this, we must be governed by the directions given us by the Welfare committee when the assignment is made. Let us plan to allow all the women an opportunity to participate in this service, that all may obtain the satisfaction and the development which come from so doing. Next, we should anticipate the local activities of our society for the year and include the preparation for these in our season's planning. If we contemplate a bazaar, let us plan ways to use this activity to forward the purposes of the work meeting. Through a bazaar we can interest our members and bring them into activity; we can recognize the skills of some of our older women and ask them to teach these skills to others; we can plan to use everyone along the lines of her aptitudes, interests, and skills. Special activities may be featured on various work meeting days, which will stimulate interest in homemaking and home beautification. The sewing course, which will be outlined in the July issue of the Magazine, may well be brought into the work meeting. Many of our mothers have need of this special instruction, and it may be given in such a manner as to interest the entire Relief Society group when it does not interfere with other planned activities. Fine quilting has become traditional in Relief Society. Let us plan to carry on this tradition by helping all to have an opportunity to learn and practice this skill. (Continued on page 352) Page 307 any can test; that no Place was €ver so - How eminently Proper that the h iment, 9 affection and of | the attributes d thr © Woman, and Is like a 5 | > and blend With the aZure of the N, and Tadiatin to t € extreme Point, Causing 4]] between One Point to the other. TH ET'S SEASON It has been aid, and truly, that ¢ rin S€ason. There Is q Peculiar f£ Cshness j the e It Were, to Very centre Mands expresg; n Conference was held March 22d, at the, _ v'. Pomeroy Presiding, President C. I. Counselors ang Other brethren were Present; opened by singing and Prayer, unselor Sarah Russel] Spoke briefly. Felt that life was too short to; | feelings towards Other, | € can aSSist Others In ©. —Susan Wilcox, any ways with Words of Secreta Page 308 acon Cay- Dutch grandmother, fifty-two years old, Mrs. Boissevain, has started in the Netherlands a movement known as the "National Skirt," which numbers 4000 women. It originated last September when women were depressed because they had "nothing to wear" to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of Queen Wilhelmina's reign. They make patchwork skirts from the "odds and ends" in their workbaskets. These symbolize "salvaging bits of the past and uniting them in a new future" of national progress and world-wide understanding. T the end of the last war, Dr. James R. McCain, for thirty years president of Agnes Scott College for Women, in Georgia, said that when future generations read our contemporary history, the headlines will be, not the two wars, but the women's revolution of the past fifty years. He feels that the results of women's business, professional, and political activities have been more harmful than good for society as a whole. He feels that women working when there are more applicants than jobs will bring down all wages. He blames the increase in juvenile delinquency and the decrease in birthrate on mothers' absence from home. It is the