[Vol35 | October 1948 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Poem | Title: Others Fjeldsted]
ice to  others  and  the  development 
of  self  has  been  the  two-fold  aim 
kept  constantly  in  mind  by  those 
who  have  guided  the  organization 
to  its  present  maturity. 
An  educational  program  was  or- 
ganized which  has  developed 
through  succeeding  years.  In  time, 
uniform  courses  of  study  were 
planned,  their  specific  purpose  be- 
ing to  teach  those  eternal  principles 
which  are  the  foundation  of  the  gos- 
pel; to  develop  faith  through  under- 
standing so  that  all  might  enjoy  the 
fruits  of  the  spirit:  and  to  assist  the 
members  in  meeting  the  daily  prob- 
lems of  life. 
It  was  with  a  definite  objective 
and  with  definite  needs  in  mind 
that  The  Reliei  Society  Magazine 
came  into  being.  Its  editors  have 
been  and  are  conscious  of  the  needs 
and  problems  which  face  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  family  and  are  endeav- 
oring to  help  in  their  solution 
through  this  medium.  They  are 
conscious  of  the  busy  life  which  the 
average  Latter-day  Saint  mother 
lives  and  have  selected  types  of 
material  which  will  not  only  meet 
personal  needs  but  will  conform 
in  reading  time  to  a  busy  schedule. 
This  wise  selection  of  material  is 
important,  for  the  complexity  of 
modern  living  demands  that  we  be 
selective  as  never  before.  The 
woman  of  today  furnishes  her  home

YOUR  FRIEND— THE  MAGAZINE 
653 
by  choosing  from  many  types  of 
furniture  and  multiple  objects  of 
art.  She  chooses  her  wardrobe  from 
numerous  fabrics  and  designs,  and 
her  hobbies  from  a  wide  variety  of 
interesting  activities.  Discrimina- 
tion is  especially  important  in  fill- 
ing her  leisure  time,  for  in  spite  of 
the  many  labor-saving  devices,  her 
interests  have  widened  and  there  is 
increased  activity  from  which  to 
choose.  Someone  has  wisely  said 
that  it  is  not  what  one  needs  to  do 
but  what  one  chooses  to  do  that  dis- 
tinguishes character. 
nPHE  woman  of  today  must  be 
especially  selective  in  her  read- 
ing for  the  amount  of  printed  ma- 
terial placed  monthly  before  the 
public  is  tremendous.  She  must  se- 
lect from  this  morass  that  which  she 
feels  will  best  fill  her  needs,  mentally, 
aesthetically,  and  spiritually.  With 
time  as  a  limiting  factor,  it  is  obvi- 
ous that  she  must  choose  wisely. 
Does  The  ReUei  Society  Magazine 
qualify  to  a  place  on  the  selective 
reading  list  of  the  Latter-day  Saint 
woman?  I  think  that  it  does  be- 
cause it  meets  so  many  of  her  needs. 
Helpful  suggestions  on  almost  all 
phases  of  homemaking  are  given. 
Pre- tested  recipes  and  nutritional 
budget-wise  menus  lead  the  busy 
housewife  to  new  ways  of  preparing 
familiar  foods.  Suggestions  on  mak- 
ing and  remodeling  of  clothing 
should  be  especially  appreciated  at 
present  because  of  the  sudden 
change  in  design  and  length. 
There  is  poetry  and  short  fiction 
for  an  aesthetic  lift— a  little  star 
dust  to  sprinkle  on  the  ironing 
board  and  the  dishpan.  Letters  from 
near  and  distant  readers  attest  the 
fact  that  the  quality  of  both  poem 
and  story  is  being  improved  and  ap- 
preciated. The  Magazine  also  sup- 
plies a  market  (though  limited)  for 
the  creative  efforts  of  Latter-day 
Saint  women.  Although  not  many 
contributions  can  be  used  monthly, 
encouragement  is  offered  writers 
through  the  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem 
and  the  Relief  Society  Short  Story 
contests  and  through  the  gracious 
consideration  of  material  submitted 
at  any  time. 
The  outlines  for  the  courses  of 
study  are  not  only  indispensable  to 
the  class  leaders,  but  can  be  equally 
helpful  and  stimulating  to  all  who 
read  them  carefully.  Much  thought 
and  skill  have  gone  into  their  prep- 
aration. Here  is  a  deep  well  of 
wisdom  for  every  reader  who  will 
make  the  text  her  own  through  in- 
dividual reflection.  Here  is  guid- 
ance in  the  art  of  living  for  all  who 
will  make  application.  And  here  is 
found  in  the  counsel  of  the  wise,  a 
kindly  light  which  mellows  trials 
and  can  heal  a  sorrow. 
Editorials  and  special  articles  of- 
fer spiritual  enrichment  to  all  who 
read  them  thoughtfully,  and  one 
must  not  overlook  the  attractive 
covers  which  the  Magazine  is  "wear- 
ing." They  have  received  much 
commendation.  ''Notes  from  the 
Field"  with  accompanying  photo- 
graphs impress  us  with  the  unity  of 
purpose  and  strength  of  a  great  or- 
ganization. 
But  perhaps  the  Magazine's  great- 
est service  lies  in  the  fact  that  it 
radiates  a  definite  spiritual  influ- 
ence; a  service-loving,  beauty-seek- 
ing influence  which  can  revitalize 
any  home  which  greets  it  and  treats 
it  as  a  friend.

Lrieuef  Society   Ujuiiding    /lews 
"Building  News"  will  continue  to  be  pnnted  until  the  names  of  all  stakes  and  wards, 
missions  and  branches  which  attained  100%  of  the  Building  Fund  have  been  printed, 
in  order  that  they  may  be  recognized  and  that  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  may  contain 
a  full  historical  record. 
npHERE  will  be  many  mementos  of  the  past  epoch-making  year  treasured 
by  Relief  Society  through  coming  years.  First  will  be  the  voluminous 
central  record  preserved  by  the  general  board  in  book  form  in  which  will 
be  inscribed  the  name  of  every  Relief  Society  Quota  Gift  contributor,  and 
that  of  every  Special  Gift  and  Memorial  Gift  contributor.  It  is  planned 
that  the  compiled  names  of  contributors  will  be  kept  in  a  special  case  in 
the  Relief  Society  Building.  Likewise,  in  the  cornerstone  of  the  Relief 
Society  Building  will  be  placed  a  duplicate  listing  of  contributors  to  re- 
main as  long  as  the  Relief  Society  Building  itself  stands. 
Each  stake  and  mission  in  the  Church  achieving  100%  will  guard 
the  Certificate  of  Achievement  issued  to  it. 
Every  ward  and  branch  in  the  Church  achieving  100%  will  also  have 
a  Certificate  of  Achievement  to  treasure  as  evidence  of  the  loyalty  and 
faithfulness  of  the  sisters  of  that  ward  or  branch.  In  addition,  the  ward 
and  branch  record  books  will  contain  a  detailed  account  of  all  contribu- 
tions to  become  a  lasting  record  of  the  generosity  of  Relief  Society  and 
Church  members  today. 
Any  Relief  Society  member  may  be  the  proud  possessor  of  three  types 
of  receipt  cards:  (1)  the  Quota  Receipt  Card  for  the  payment  of  a  quota 
donation;  (2)  a  SpecfaJ  Giit  Receipt  Card  for  the  payment  of  a  donation 
in  excess  of  the  quota;  and  (3)3  MemoriaJ  Gift  Receipt  Card  for  every 
Memorial  Gift  made. 
Non-Relief  Society  members  may  prize  two  types  of  receipt  cards— a 
Special  Gift  Receipt  Card  and  a  Memorial  Gift  Receipt  Card. 
These  individual  Receipt  Cards  will  become  increasingly  prized  over 
Page  654

RELIEF  SOCIETY  BUILDING  NEWS 
655 
the  years.    Many  of  the  great  future  leaders  of  Rehef  Society  who  today 
are  mere  girls  will  undoubtedly  own  ''Special  Gift  Receipt  Cards." 
The  Relief  Society  as  part  of  the  Church  makes  painstaking  records 
and  carefully  preserves  them,  and  out  of  Relief  Society  record  books  will 
shine  forever  bright  the  devoted  and  unselfish  services  of  the  women  of 
the  Church  in  the  Relief  Society  Building  Fund  program  of  October 
1947  to  October  1948. 
STAKES  WHICH  HAVE  SENT  IN  100%  BUILDING  QUOTAS 
South  Idaho  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
Idaho  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
San  Diego  Stake  (California) 
Wells  Stake  (Utah) 
Teton  Stake   (Idaho  and  Wyoming) 
Granite  Stake  (Utah) 
North  Idaho  Falls  Stake  (Idaho) 
Emigration  Stake  (Utah) 
Mesa  Stake   (Arizona) 
Rexburg  Stake  (Idaho) 
UvADA  Stake   (Nevada  and  Utah) 
Utah  Stake  (Utah) 
Seattle  Stake  (Washington) 
South  Los  Angeles  Stake    (Calif.) 
Juarez  Stake  (Mexico) 
Florida  Stake   (Florida) 
Temple   View  Stake    (Utah) 
Bear  River  Stake  (Utah) 
Parowan  Stake  (Utah) 
Cedar  Stake   (Utah) 
Liberty  Stake   (Utah) 
Smithfield  Stake  (Utah) 
Sugar  House  Stake  (Utah) 
Salt  Lake  Stake   (Utah) 
San  Luis  Stake  (Colorado) 
Oneida  Stake  (Idaho) 
Tooele  Stake  (Utah) 
San  Juan  Stake  (Utah) 
Sevier  Stake   (Utah) 
Grant  Stake  (Utah) 
East  Provo  Stake  (Utah) 
American  Falls   Stake    (Idaho) 
Oquirrh  Stake  (Utah) 
East  Rigby  Stake  (Idaho) 
San  Bernardino  Stake  (California) 
Maricopa  Stake  (Arizona) 
San  Francisco  Stake  (California) 
Weiser  Stake   (Idaho) 
Oahu  Stake   (Hawaii) 
West  Pocatello  Stake  (Idaho) 
Taylor  Stake    (Canada) 
Wayne  Stake  (Utah) 
Long  Beach  Stake  (California) 
Nampa  Stake  (Idaho) 
Ben  Lomond  Stake  (Utah) 
East  Mill  Creek  Stake  (Utah) 
West  Utah  Stake   (Utah) 
Inglewood  Stake   (California) 
Palo  Alto  Stake   (California) 
Lehi  Stake  (Utah)  • 
Ogden  Stake  (Utah) 
San  Fernando  Stake  (California) 
Hillside  Stake  (Utah) 
South  Ogden  Stake  (Utah) 
TiMPANOGOs  Stake  (Utah) 
North  Rexburg  Stake    (Idaho) 
Mount  Ogden  Stake  (Utah) 
Cassia  Stake  (Idaho) 
Palmyra  Stake  (Utah) 
Grantsville  Stake   (Utah) 
Blackfoot  Stake  (Idaho) 
Bonneville  Stake  (Utah) 
BuRLEY  Stake  (Idaho) 
Davis  Stake  (Utah) 
East  Cache  Stake  (Utah) 
Highland  Stake  (Utah) 
Hyrum  Stake  (Utah) 
Morgan  Stake   (Utah) 
North  Sevier  Stake    (Utah) 
Pasadena  Stake  (California) 
Phoenix  Stake  (Arizona) 
Provo  Stake  (Utah) 
South  Summit  Stake   (Utah) 
West  Jordan  Stake  (Utah) 
Minidoka  Stake  (Idaho) 
Franklin  Stake    (Idaho) 
Lyman  Stake  (Wyoming) 
Snowflake  Stake  (Arizona) 
South  Carolina  Stake  (So.  Carolina) 
Big  Cottonwood  Stake  (Utah) 
Chicago  Stake  (Illinois) 
PoRTNEUF  Stake   (Idaho) 
Reno  Stake  (Nevada) 
Rigby  Stake  (Idaho) 
Benson  Stake  (Utah) 
Lethbridge  Stake  (Canada) 
San  Joaquin  Stake    (California)