[Vol35 | October 1948 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Your Friend the Christensen]

The woman of today furnishes her home YOUR FRIEND—THE MAGAZINE by choosing from many types of furniture and multiple objects of art. She chooses her wardrobe from numerous fabrics and designs, and her hobbies from a wide variety of interesting activities. Discrimination is especially important in filling her leisure time, for in spite of the many labor-saving devices, her interests have widened and there is increased activity from which to choose. Someone has wisely said that it is not what one needs to do but what one chooses to do that distinguishes character. HE woman of today must be especially selective in her reading for the amount of printed material placed monthly before the public is tremendous. She must select from this morass that which she feels will best fill her needs, mentally, aesthetically, and spiritually. With time as a limiting factor, it is obvious that she must choose wisely. Does The Relief Society Magazine qualify to a place on the selective reading list of the Latter-day Saint woman? I think that it does because it meets so many of her needs. Helpful suggestions on almost all phases of homemaking are given. Pre-tested recipes and nutritional budget-wise menus lead the busy housewife to new ways of preparing familiar foods. Suggestions on making and remodeling of clothing should be especially appreciated at present because of the sudden change in design and length. There is poetry and short fiction for an aesthetic lift—a little star dust to sprinkle on the ironing board and the dishpan. Letters from near and distant readers attest the 653 fact that the quality of both poem and story is being improved and appreciated. The Magazine also supplies a market (though limited) for the creative efforts of Latter-day Saint women. Although not many contributions can be used monthly, encouragement is offered writers through the Eliza R. Snow Poem and the Relief Society Short Story contests and through the gracious consideration of material submitted at any time. The outlines for the courses of study are not only indispensable to the class leaders, but can be equally helpful and stimulating to all who read them carefully. Much thought and skill have gone into their preparation. Here is a deep well of wisdom for every reader who will make the text her own through individual reflection. Here is guidance in the art of living for all who will make application. And here is found in the counsel of the wise, a kindly light which mellows trials and can heal a sorrow. Editorials and special articles offer spiritual enrichment to all who read them thoughtfully, and one must not overlook the attractive covers which the Magazine is "wearing.' They have received much commendation.