[Vol35 | October 1948 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Belle Watson Anderson]
Page 675 Questing Lights Bell Watson Anderson Chapter 7 Synopsis: Andrew Rumgay leaves his mother and his fiancee Jane Allison in
Scotland and joins his friend Hugh Shand to emigrate to America. They meet Mother MacKinlav' and her son Bob, whom they had known while doing missionary work, and become acquainted Kathleen Coleman and her friend Margaret Purvis. Hugh and Kathleen are married on board the ship. While in Iowa preparing for the handcart journey across the plains, Margaret tells Mother Mac that she is love Andrew, and Kathleen tells the two women that she is expecting a baby. While crossing the plains Andrew is lost in a blizzard and is rescued by Margaret. She later leaves the Macs and goes to live in Tooele. The others later arrive in Zion. Kathleen and Hugh have a son and name him Mac Coleman Shand. Andrew farms and saves money to bring fane from Scotland. When he finally sends it, he receives news that Jane has married someone else. Andrew is a grieved and lonely man and he sends for his small brother and sister, instead. FROM the very first day An- drew went to see the Hunters, he had been interested in wool— it may have been because his mother worked in it at home. When the snow was too deep for timbering he spent his time, after the chores were all completed, carding wool. Sister Hunter made the soap for washing the wool, soaked it in many waters in a vat especially made for that purpose, washed it, rinsed it, and put it out in the shade to dry. After picking and carding the soft white wool into batts for quilts, or spinning it into yam, she knit the family's underwear, socks, and stockings. Sometimes she dyed the wool into beautiful colors and knit sweaters Poge676 and fascinators for her daughters and soft warm shawls for herself and friends. With the waste she made rugs for the floor. Many people wanted her to process their wool but she never found time, so Andrew  decided wool-processing would be a good business for him. He built a lean-to on the cabin and went to work. He had woven too many dreams into the river bottoms and the forest— dreams which would never be fulfilled— to return to them. Processing wool would be advantageous for a number of reasons. He would be at home to take care of the bairns— his brother and sister— when the\' arrived. He could catch up with his Church work. He was making up for lost time now. When there was no special activity planned in the ward, he went out to visit the sick, to encourage and help the poor, and to teach the gospel. He had wanted to build a fence around his lot with the logs which he had cut when he was timbering, but he hadn't found time. Now he decided to finish up a lot of odd jobs around his home. The bairns came that fall in time for school. They brought love and comfort to their brother's heart, and sunshine to the cabin. He desired his training to be just as profitable to them as had been his mother's love, patience, and sacrifice to him. She had been father and mother to ten, so he felt that surely he could take care of two. All preparations for the winter QUESTING LIGHTS had been completed. The shelves and root cellar were full of food. His yard was stacked high with good wood to burn, tee called on him for a few days of on the mill was asked to go out and talk to the people about buying Stock in the factory company. Plans were made to organize a CO-Operative Store in Resplendence. As Brother Rumgay's responsibility in the bishopric was to look after the young people, he didn't settle long in any one place, Thanksgiving was the of all winter activities in € people entertained themselves at the. Meetinghouse. They had Programs of various kinds, Operas, home dramatics, and dances. Often ere were sleigh-riding parties, their favorite entertainment was the supper dance. They would all gather at some home for a hot cooked supper; then they would go to the meetinghouse for a program and dance, At holiday time they decorated the ward house and planned entertainment for every night in the week between Christmas and New Years. MOTHER invited all the Macs to spend the day with her. After dinner they had a sacred program, in keeping with the occasion. Mother read the Christmas story from the Bible; Hugh led in singing Christmas carols; Brother Coleman played classical music on his violin; the bairns gave a dialogue. 677 Bob presented a Short talk on gifts: I'm going to tell you how the MacKinlays received their greatest gift of all. My father was the only one in several generations
who did not join the dominant
church of Scotland. He wanted to wait
and join the true Church. One day father
was walking down the streets of
Cowdenbeath. A gentle breeze was blowing.
It b lew a piece of white paper right
,into father's path. It fell at his feet. He
picked it up and read the announcement
of a Mormon meeting to be held in Cowdenbeath.
Father attended the meeting
and knew from the first the young missionaries
were preaching the truth^
He studied their literature and prayed
to his Heavenly Father and received a
strong testimony. He apphed for baptism,
and soon mother joined him. This is how
we received our very greatest gift.
It was a wonderful Christmas.
New Years was the day the Scotch
celebrated in the old country.
Andrew had suffered a lot of bad
luck the past year, and Mother was
eager to help a wee trifle to bring
good luck to him in the new year.
She got Bob out of his bed early,
and, dressed up in Sunday clothes
and new shoes, she sent him along
to Andrew's with a basket filled to
the brim with every good thing to
eat.
Anarew insisted on Bob's coming
in and eating a bite of breakfast,
then he sent Bob back to his mother's
with the basket filled to the
brim again. No bad luck would
visit the Rumgays and MacKinlays—
Bob had taken care of that. A darkcomplexioned
boy — with guid
clothes and new shoes, carrying
something filled to the brimbrought
