[Vol35 | October 1948 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

"For THE Rights OF THE Women OF Zion AND THE Rights OF THE WOMEN OF ALL Nations 
OCR Transcription
Sixty Years Ago
Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1888
"FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS"
LINCOLN PARK: Lincoln Park, in the North-Eastern part of Chicago, borders the lake, with many acres and attractive as any the same from whence it originally derived its name. As in other parks, there are rustic seats, shaded by large trees, and the ground is everywhere carpeted with beautiful lawns and flower beds, interspersed with artificial ponds and channels, for the convenience of boaters. But its chief attractions are those of its hot house and its extensive exhibition of wild animals. In the hot house can be found innumerable tropical plants and flowers, so arranged, according to class and form, as to produce at the same time the most pleasing and instructive appearance.—X
THOUGHTS OF LIFE AND NATURE
Why do the apple-blossoms, On a bright spring day, so quickly fall, Only come to show their beauty, Then with the breezes fall? Because Dame Nature calls them To the earth's untidy floor, For they've lived their time appointed, And their blooming time is o'er. —M. A. F.
BEAR LAKE STAKE: The Relief Society of the Bear Lake Stake held their Twentieth Semi-annual Conference at St. Charles, July 7th and 8th, 1888, Prest. Julia B. Lindsay presiding. The presidents of the different branches of the Society gave in their verbal reports, which were favorable. Coun. E. Callings made a few remarks, in which she plainly set forth some of the duties pertaining to the Latter-day Saints, and showed the good results of obedience to God's laws.—Lottie Price, Cor. Sec.
NOTES AND NEWS: There are four Siamese babies studying in England.
Princess Eugenie of Sweden has sacrificed her family jewels to build a hospital for cripples upon an island off the coast.
The Directors of the Western Pennsylvania Medical College in Pittsburg, Pa., have declared against the admission of women as students, and refused the applications of six young women.
SOME SERIOUS REFLECTIONS: The true Latter-day Saint will be measurably prepared for whatever may transpire. The great and mighty revolutions, and the distress of the nations at the present time, are things that we have been looking for. We must be of good cheer, keep the commandments of God, and be sure to have the Spirit as m hand to act a double watch over ourselves, that we do not grieve and lose the Holy Spirit, and drift away into unbelief, but prepare ourselves for what is lying before us, which are days of tribulation, and try to avoid that awful whirlpool into which so many have been led, either by a spirit of doubt and unbelief, or because of transgression, and have sunk to rise no more. Those who bear these things in mind, and are watching the signs of the times will be able to discern between truth and error, and accept their trials as needful lessons, that will add to their store of experience, which in a future day will be of great worth.—Helen Mar Whitney
Page 668
Woman’s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon THE originator, in America, of poster-preaching to non-churchgoers is a young Baptist girl, Jo Peterson, who began her campaign eleven years ago in Chicago. She now supervises the monthly distribution of Bible quotations on 40,000 billboard posters, small memory cards, or placards for trains, buses, or streetcars. These go to thirtyseven countries. Some have reached Japan and Germany. CENSUS officials believe that by 1950 there will be sixty per cent more women between the ages of forty-five and sixty-four employed than there were in 1940—an increase of one and one-half million. THE annual Girls' State and Girls' Nation activities sponsored by the American Legion Auxiliary give excellent training in democratic government to the young women of America. Intelligent leadership will no doubt result from this enterprise. THE average life-span of women in the United States at present is 69.5 years. MBS. EDWIN J. DRYER JR. (Dorothea M.) is a deputy county attorney in Salt Lake, the first woman to hold this position.