[Vol35 | October 1948 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Sewing Jennings]

Work Meeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Salvage from Shirts Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, January 11, 1949 EN'S shirts, like their suits, frequently become shabby and wear out in strategic points long before their full value is exhausted. The collars and cuffs become frayed and they frequently pull out at the armholes, but the main body of the shirts can still stand more wear. If the material seems weak all over, then it is a waste of time and energy to remake them. But when the shirt as a whole is sturdy, many useful things can be done with it. There is a surprising amount of yardage to be found in a man's shirt. The fabric is usually fine, soft, and closely woven. These features, together with attractiveness of color and print, recommend them for remodeling into children's clothes. Logically, the first use that comes to mind is merely re-making the shirt into a smaller size for a boy. In this case try to take advantage, as much as possible, of the tail of the shirt which gets the least wear, for the parts of the boy's shirt which get the most wear, namely the collar and sleeves. Other children's clothing such as sun suits, pinafores and aprons can be constructed from shirts, colored ones being used for play clothes for little girls, and for play trousers, with a bib, for little boys. Attractive butcher-boy smocks, to be worn with contrasting slacks can be fashioned for little girls, using the stripes in different directions for trim. For the teen-age girl lovely blouses can be made in the Gibson girl styles. Many attractive combinations can be fashioned by using plain white shirts along with striped or colored ones. Have a_ tucked white bosom front and cuffs and collar on a solid color blouse. Or reverse the procedure and have striped trim on a white blouse. The young housewife and mother can fashion innumerable useful and attractive aprons. A shirt lends itself better to a style with a waist band and attached bib or merely a front apron type, since the usable length of a shirt is rarely over thirty inches. By combining the available material of the shirt with color, bias, rick rack or even eyelet embroidery, the possibilities are unlimited. To this list of suggestions add numerous items such as sunbonnets for the little girls, petticoats, panties, and even the popular camisole, and we have a vista of make-overs to challenge the ingenuity of any clever woman.