[Vol35 | October 1948 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

5) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon TWELVE women dentists, from the Western States and Canada, most of them wives and mothers, attended the convention of Western Dentists, held recently in Salt Lake City. Most unusual profession is that of Mrs. Ellen Ferguson of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, who makes ceramic skulls which are exact duplicates of human skulls. They are used by medical students and artists. [N Shanghai, China, is a bank staffed entirely by women, and said to be the only women's bank in the world. The first depositors were women, though men have now joined the ranks. As low a deposit as ten cents is accepted. [N a survey of women and men students at Mount Union College, Ohio, the question was asked: Have modern conveniences made it possible for the average woman to bear and rear children and maintain a home properly and at the same time carry on a career in business? Eighty-four per cent of the students said "No." Yet recent statistics show that one out of every ten married women in America is gainfully employed. Does this represent the difference between ideals and practical necessity? Page 669 Editorial Vol. 35 October 1948 NO. 10 The Meaning of October AGAIN the autumn season comes with its rich harvest and its tide of red and yellow leaves. The mother in the home is busy with fall sewing, with canning and storage of fruits and vegetables, with making plans for the winter comfort and welfare of her family. The leisurely and quiet way that autumn comes to the earth is sometimes not reflected in the strenuous days of the homemaker.
Yet there is much of steadfast joy that autumn brings in the return of many of our choicest privileges and responsibilities. To the loyal Relief Society member October brings the inspiration of the regular meetings which give her life inspiration, spiritual strength, and a deep sense of the blessed continuity of that which is precious and worthwhile—the lasting treasures that may be found and retained even in this troubled world.
We return to the sanctuary of the Relief Society room which has meant so much to us; we go back to the joyful privilege of meeting again with women who are united in belief and in purpose. We feel again that comforting sense of belonging, of being active units in a great and growing society—an organization hallowed by more than a century of sisterhood and accomplishment under prophetic direction. It is our pleasure and our responsibility to lift our hearts and
use our hands to build usefulness and spiritual beauty, to join with our sisters in many lands to fulfill the purposes of Relief Society.
By regular attendance at all the meetings we enjoy a continuity of interest and an active participation in a varied program designed to enrich our lives and broaden and beautify our personalities. Sometimes it is not alone the activities which we most enjoy that are most necessary to our development. That we may be truly nourished spiritually, aesthetically, socially, and constructively, we need the well-planned enrichment of all phases of Relief Society work. We need the contributions in words and deeds which our sisters give to us willingly and they need the insight and sympathy which we may have to offer.
The societies which include among the membership older women, and the young mothers, as well, can best achieve the objectives of the organization in group accomplishments and individual growth. Thus the "give-and-take" develops most beautifully in a steadfast circle of united sisterhood.
October is the time for making our plans for the Relief Society year, for beginning our attendance at meetings, and for joining with our many sisters in the privileges and responsibilities of our great organization.