MORMON HANDICRAFT Highlights By Nellie O. Parker
There has dawned another new year in which to shake off the shackles of disappointment and failure, a year in which to step out with fresh courage and enthusiasm, tempered but unhampered by the mistakes of the past, toward higher goals. It is the time for stocktaking, for sorting out true values, for measuring accomplishments, for restating objectives and extending plans for the future.
In this new year, Mormon Handicraft will reach its third anniversary. Its history is one of consistent, steady growth and is a concrete expression of the true spirit of Relief Society. It was conceived in an earnest desire to help others to help themselves, not only to replenish their income but also to increase their joy of living through self-expression. It was felt that this shop would help retain the fine skills and craftsmanship that many of our people brought from their native lands and that it would encourage and foster these talents in others. If a market were available for these individualized hand-made articles, new avenues of employment would be opened.
Up to October, 1939, approximately 2,500 people have sold their articles through Mormon Handicraft and $14,278 have been paid to them for their work. Truly, this is rendering genuine service. The Organization has been fully justified, and the dream of its founders has materialized. From these achievements we feel that the future holds great possibilities, and we trust that the same inspiration and vision will guide its course onward to a great destiny.
Attractive Historic Samplers
There are now available through the facilities of The Tribune-Telegram patterns for a beautiful sampler of Mormon scenes and motives, artistically grouped on a sheet 15x20½ inches. These patterns have been carefully designed with regard to historic accuracy and simplified for many types of needle work, cross-stitch, lazy-daisy, etc., and for novelty work, modeling, dry-point, woodcarving, tooling, etching, etc. They may be divided into separate motives to be used in numerous ways for decorations on luncheon sets, wall plaques, glass painting, etc. The patterns can be obtained at the Shop, ten cents per sheet.