<(aey> ee Marcia Knowlton Howells First COUNSELOR By Mary Grant Judd It was characteristic of Marcia Howells that when she was recently chosen as First Counselor to President Amy Brown Lyman in the general presidency of the Relief Society she was greatly surprised. Her personal stock sells low with herself but extremely high with those who know her well. Of this group, I am proud and happy to be one. We first met at the L. D. S. High School, where Marcia was president of her class and 'later vice-president of the student body. Since that time, our understanding of and our love for each other have grown apace. I have watched. "my friend develop from an impetuous school girl, whose high spirits were sometimes hard to keep within bounds, into a mature woman who, though she has kept her enthusiasm, has developed poise, judgment and above all spirituality. At a recent conference of Relief Society workers, Sister Lyman gave some instructions to the sisters as to the qualifications they should develop in their work. So well has Marcia Howells incorporated them in her activities as a member of the General Board that her president might have been speaking of her. Said Sister Lyman: "When you are appointed to a position, first learn what it means and what your duties are. Appreciate the office you hold and take your work seriously. We are aiming in Relief Society to have all women who hold positions live up to the standards of the Church; people admire our standards. Be orthodox Latter-day Saints. Be prayerful, seek the spirit of the Lord and work for a testimony of the Gospel. Have courage; you must have courage in positions of leadership. Give in on the little things that are not so important, but do not compromise on real principles. Keep a sense of humor. If you do that, discouragement will find no place in you. Be sympathetic and willing to help in any way possible. Be truly enthusiastic and friendly. Be well informed, gracious and humble. In short, be builders in action, through humility, through prayer and through God." Marcia was called to the General Board early in the year 1929. She came well qualified for the work, having had a good education, four years' teaching experience, and the development that comes from world travel. Her service in the Church as Sunday School, Primary, Religion Class, and Relief Society worker, gave her an intimate understanding of the work of the auxiliaries. For ten years she has not only ably functioned in the regular work-of the Relief Society General Board, but her special interest in health and social welfare has brought to her special responsibilities. For several years, she has represented the General Board as a member of the board of directors of the Utah Tuberculosis Association. In 1939, she acted as state chairman of the May Day— Child Health Day. She has represented the  Recreation Council. She attended the National MARCIA KNOWLTON HOWELLS Service Convention held in San Francisco and also a Social Service Institute at Berkeley. Her interest in social welfare has led her to take special educational courses along social service lines. Sister Lyman says of her work, "Marcia is a natural-born executive, with a great capacity for work. She has traveled all over the Church in the interest of Relief Society and never looks for the easiest assignments. If you give her an assignment you can dismiss it from your mind, knowing it will be well taken care of. She is systematic, a good planner, paying careful attention to detail, and she does her work without fuss or trouble. So much of our work is done in committees, and Marcia is a fine committee woman." In order to get a clear conception of any individual, one must know something of his background. To me it is always fascinating to open the book of the past and find out about ancestors and trace family traits. Marcia Howells came, on both her father's and mother's side, from a long line of sturdy pioneers, but it took a great amount of questioning to draw from her the fact that on both sides of her family her forbears go back to Revolutionary times, and far beyond. The reasons she gave for being hesitant was that she believes what Plutarch said: "It is indeed a grand thing to be well descended, but the glory of it belongs to our ancestors." In other words, don't live on the achievements of some ancestor but make a record of your own. Daniel Knowlton, Marcia's greatgreat-grandfather, was an outstanding patriot of the American Revolution. When his country called, he left his plow in the furrow as "Cin

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

, JANUARY - 9 cinnatus of old" and willingly responded to duty. Daniel Knowlton once saved the life of Israel Putnam, one of the commanding officers, at the battle of Bunker Hill. From an interesting old record, "The Knowlton Ancestry," I quote: "The night before the Putnam men marched to the relief of Boston, 'Old Put,' as he was called, was noticed to leave his house and silently walk over to a field adjacent, and there look towards Ashford (where Daniel Knowlton lived) for some little time shading his eyes with his hand. Being followed by a neighbor and asked for whom he was looking, the old General ejaculated, 'Gad, Zounds! Had I only Daniel Knowlton to take with me! He alone is worth half a company, such is his courage and lack of fear. I could order him into the mouth of a loaded cannon, and he would go.'" Such a man you might imagine to be stern and forbidding, but such is not the case. "One day," says the record, "as Daniel was riding past a church at Ashford, he noticed a large crowd congregated about a whipping post, planted in the vicinity, according to the harsh custom of the day. Upon inquiry, he learned that a culprit was to be flogged for non-attendance at church and non-payment of dues. When the sentence was read preparatory to laying on the stripes, observing that the usual clause was omitted requiring the stripes to be applied to the bare back, he jumped from his horse and threw his own coat over the shoulders of the culprit, thus mitigating the force of the blows." "Bold, stern and intrepid as a lion in the battlefield, he was retiring, non-assertive in private life, and inclined to belittle his achieve- 10 - JANUARY, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 ments. Nothing was more distasteful to his mind than display or ostentation." Certainly, Marcia possesses many of the sterling character traits of her ancestor. Courage, loyalty, a spirit of daring, coupled with an innate modesty, humility and a willingness to serve when duty calls are pronounced characteristics. If I were asked to put into words that peculiar something which distinguishes Marcia from other individuals, I would say it is the quality of her generosity. She gives herself. She is generous with her time, doing more than her share when called upon. She is generous in her thoughts of others. Their good fortune evokes happiness within her; their accomplishments calls forth her commendation. She is tolerant of their failings. Modest about her own talents, she recognizes and admires the talents of others. If working in a successful group, she is inclined to give the credit to the other persons, a true form of unselfishness. Though but ten years old when her father, Benjamin Franklin Knowlton, died, the example of true hospitality set in his home has stayed with Marcia, making her the charming hostess she is today. As a little girl, she recalls there were no auto camps or even hotels in the little town of Farmington where she grew up, but the shelter of their home and the bounties of their table were generously and freely extended to even the casual acquaintance. The home over which Marcia and her husband, Dr. Thomas J. Howells, Salt Lake City Health Commissioner, preside is an inviting one; hospitality, refinement, peace and harmony reign therein. Dr. Howells has not only ably served his community but his Church as well. He fulfilled a mission to Great Britain and upon his return was appointed a member of the Salt Lake Stake Sunday School Superintendency. Marcia's spiritual nature has found expression in extensive temple work. Genealogy and temple work were activities in which both her father and her mother, Minerva Richards, found great satisfaction. Her mother said shortly before her death: "The crowning joy of my life was the privilege of serving as an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple." For many years Sister Minerva Knowlton was a devoted and capable Relief Society leader, being chosen secretary-treasurer of the first Davis Stake Relief Society. Later, she became ward Relief Society president. This position was followed by that of stake president. Of her mother, Marcia could well say, as President Grant did of his widowed mother: "It is a glorious thing to be, like Nephi of old, 'born of goodly parents.' It is of greater value than wealth or precious stones. My mother was both father and mother to me. Her tender love bound me to her with cords of steel, and if I succeed in the battle of life, I will owe it all to her." In our high school days, I formed a high opinion of the character of Marcia, and during all the years of our friendship she has not disappointed me—no, not once.