Donna Durrant Sorensen SECOND COUNSELOR By Anna Boss Hart "I AM ready to go anywhere, provided it be forward." These few words of David Livingstone embody the philosophy of Donna Durrant Sorensen's life. Since the time that her parents, the late Lorenzo J. Durrant and Agnes Lewis Durrant, came from Thatcher, Idaho, with their family to educate them in a church school at Provo, Donna has been going forward. Forward in her education, for in 1927 she was graduated from the Brigham Young University; forward in the Gospel, for two years were spent in the Central States Mission under President and Sister Samuel O. Bennion whose faith and leadership were exemplary; forward in her profession of teaching as head of the Department of English and Speech in the American Fork High School; forward in every woman's crowning activity, that of homemaking, for October, 1929, saw her marriage to a worthy companion, a graduate from the Utah State Agricultural College, Wesley A. Sorensen, a man valiant in the service of the Church. A little, curly golden-haired daughter graces this ideal union. Since her marriage, the Church and her home have found the largest interest in her life. As the windows of their beautiful home offer varied views, so within their lives do we view happiness and well-ordered living, friends in an atmosphere of peace and beauty, with love and faith permeating everywhere. Not only is her home the expression of her generous, artistic and religious nature, but her appearance as well. Beauty, in all its forms, attracts her attention, whether it is found in dress, in an etching, a sunset or a new flower arrangement. With all her public work, she has time to cheer those who are sorrowful, to write a letter, to send a flower ora card, It is not possible to express the deep admiration felt by her friends. Some "thoughts lie too deep for words". Her friendship is "the breathing rose, with sweets in every fold". She is alert to the new, knows valuable books, hears the best music, knows international problems of the day. In all available pursuits, "she has a genius for enjoyment". The power and richness of her radiant personality characterize everything she does. She can make a delicious pie, can sing a lullaby and sway an audience with the same perfection. Probably the secret of Donna's success is in the entire giving of herself, her never failing sympathy, her' sense of humor that can relieve any difficult situation and the intensity of the life she lives. Her sense of values—"the ability to see large things large and small things small", which is one of the true measures of education—shows an outstanding harmony of powers. Above all, she is a true Latter-day Saint. Her great faith has been exercised in behalf of many. Fostered in a home of faith, her testimony has constantly grown along with her ser- DONNA DURRANT SORENSEN vice. She has been an inspirational teacher and has taught in most of the auxiliary organizations. Not until she taught in a ward Relief Society did Donna find the greatest satisfaction in Church activity. Later, she became a member of the Wells Stake Relief Society Board, and since then greater honors have come, and rapidly. In 1935, when she was selected as a member of the General Board, her teaching 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

, JANUARY - 13 received a new crown, and her leadership included wider realms. And now, the future holds great promise for this young woman, for with her humility and earnest seeking of her Father in prayer will come limitless vision, To President Amy Brown Lyman she will bring trust and unquestioned loyalty and the will "to go anywhere, provided it be forward".