HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon JANUARY—Hold high the torch of courage, with hope march on! WILHELMINA, Queen of the Netherlands, is not only a wise ruler but a clever diplomat, as history has proven. Last fall she appealed to the nations for an international conference for world peace. She knew she might protect Holland by lifting the dikes, but her colonies had no such protection. She faced both "East and West". PRINCESS LOUISE, Duchess of Argyll, 91, sixth of the nine children of Queen Victoria, died last month. Louise was a rebel against the conventionalities of royal society. She was the first English princess in 350 years to marry outside royal circles when she became the bride of the Marquis of Lorne. HELEN ROBINSON of Poland, an eye witness of the Polish invasion, is now lecturing in the United States. GAIL BROWN, one-time friend of Burbank, has discovered a new science called hydroponics or soil-less gardening. The new method solves the garden problem for city dwellers. HATTIE HOOPER YOUNG, widow of Col. Willard Young, socially popular and greatly loved for her fine qualities of heart and mind, died last month at her home in Salt Lake City. ANN C. MILN, age 91, had her eyesight restored after 15 years of blindness. She is thrilled with the dazzling colorful hats and gowns and the loveliness of the world. ADELLA BRYAN of Los Angeles, 104 years old last fall, celebrated her birthday. She was beautifully dressed and groomed for the occasion. ANN O'HARE McCORMICK of the "New York Times" editorial staff was awarded the 1939 medal for Eminent Achievement by the American Woman's Association before 800 prominent women guests. When Fannie Hurst, novelist, presented the award, she said, "You were selected not for any meteoric performance of the past year but for continued achievements over the years. ADELAIDE JOHNSON, noted sculptress, started to destroy her statues when her residence-studio was sold for taxes. When offered help, Mrs. Johnson said, "Relief, welfare, need," are words not in my vocabulary." Friends made adjustments without injury to her pride. ELINORE BLAISDELL won the $2,000 Julia Ellsworth Ford prize for the best 1939 children's book, entitled "Falcon Fly Back," a story of knights and ladies of Medieval France. MAY J. BREEN'S new volume, "The Party Book", Nora Loft's "Blossom Like The Rose" and Davis Leslie's "Another Cynthia" are popular books this winter.