Theology and Testimony
Paul the Missionary (Cont'd) Lesson 7
HELPFUL REFERENCES
F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, chs. XXVII, XXIX, XXX, XXXII, XXXIII, XXXV, XXXVI, XXXVII, XXXVIII, LVII. B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, chs. XI, XII. A. T. Robertson, Epochs in the Life of Paul, chs. X-XIII. J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, chs. XVI-XXII.
PAUL THE TEACHER.—Paul was a great teacher. He must be ranked as one of the greatest of all time. The large number of church branches established by him is strong evidence of his ability to convert others to Christianity. A man to be an outstanding teacher must certainly, among other requirements, be thoroughly converted to those principles and ideals he is teaching. Paul had a passionate love for Christ that made it easy for him to fulfill that requirement. "He is willing to be thought beside himself (II Cor. 5:13) if so be he succeeds in his ambition to please Jesus." (Robertson) The crucified Christ was the central theme of his teaching. Professor H. E. Dana says, "He decided the mode of presentation in view of the audience (Acts 17:22), but allowed no consideration of adaptation to alter the theme. Such was Paul's policy."
Certain scholars have attempted to show that there existed a great difference between the religion or preaching of Christ and that of Paul. It is in fact common at the present time to speak of Pauline Christianity in contrast to that of Christ. In the light of modern revelation, Paul's teachings are in accord with those of Christ. Apparent differences are for the most part easily explained. How substantially Paul's doctrines concur with those taught by Christ can be tested by perusing the Ready References under the various headings and comparing the references in the gospels with those in Paul's letters and the appropriate chapters in the Acts. Some of the teachings in the gospels may be more explicit and clear in certain instances than as given by Paul and vice versa. That is to be expected. We haven't by any means all of the teachings of either Christ or Paul.
THE BEGINNING OF THE END.—On Paul's Third Missionary Journey he realized that the battle with the Judaizers was not yet over despite the concessions he and Barnabas had received in the Jerusalem Conference. He therefore determined to go to Jerusalem for the day of Pentecost. (Acts 20:16) Jerusalem was the center in which the Judaizers had intrenched themselves. The Church Authorities were not on their side, but the old Mosaic tradition was a hard one to break for many members of the Church. Paul realized that freedom for the Gentile Christians was absolutely necessary if the cause of Christianity was to succeed in the west. He determined to do for the Gentiles what he could if it cost him his life. Acts 20 sounds a somber note, and we know that Paul senses the beginning of the end. "And now," says he, "behold, I am going bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me there: Save that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me. But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel of the grace of God." (Acts 20:22-24) This reminds us strongly of Joseph Smith's last words when he took leave of the Saints and went on the journey from which he was destined never to return alive: "I am going like a lamb to the slaughter; but I am calm as a summer's morning; I have a conscience void of offense towards God, and towards all men. I shall die innocent, and it shall yet be said of me—he was murdered in cold blood."
Paul's ship finally reaches Tyre where the cargo was to be unloaded. Luke records the following: "And finding disciples, we tarried there seven days: who said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem." (Acts 21:4) Finally, Paul and his party set sail again and landed at Caesarea. And here, once more, Paul is warned. "And as we tarried there many days, there came down from Judea a certain prophet, named Agabus. And when he was come unto us, he took Paul's girdle, and bound his own hands and feet and said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost, So shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles. And when we heard these things, both we, and they of that place, besought him not to go up to Jerusalem." (Acts 21:10-12) But go Paul does and recounts to James and the other elders of the church his wonderful success in the ministry among the Gentiles. The brethren are delighted, but proceed to gently caution him concerning the Jewish Christians who still believe in the law of Moses. "Thou seest, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are which believe; and they are all zealous of the law: And they are informed of thee, that thou teachest all the Jews which are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcise their children, neither to walk after the customs. What is it therefore? The multitude must needs come together: for they will hear that thou art come. Do therefore this that we say to thee: We have four men which have a vow on them; them take, and purify thyself with them, and be at charges with them, that they may shave their heads: and all may know that those things, whereof they were informed concerning thee, are nothing; but that thou thyself also walkest orderly, and keepest the law." (Acts 21:20-24)
The above quotation is exceedingly important, because it clearly explains the incidents that indirectly brought about Paul's death. At the Jerusalem Conference Paul won for the Gentile Christians freedom from Mosaic regulations. No issue was raised concerning Jewish Christians. But the Judaizers, "zealots for the law," probably spread the propaganda against Paul mentioned in the quotation above. Their charges, by the irony of fate, were almost identical with those that caused the death of Stephen. Paul kept the advice of his brethren and the next day entered the temple to purify himself with four other men. Jews from Asia spied him and "stirred up all the people, and laid hands on him, Crying out, Men of Israel help: This is the man that teacheth all men every where against the people, and the law, and this place; and further brought Greeks also into the temple, and hath polluted this holy place." (Acts 21:27, 28) Such a great commotion was created by the people that it came to the notice of the Roman soldiers who placed Paul under arrest, thus saving him from a further beating at the hands of the enraged Jews. Paul's subsequent pleas before the mob, the Sanhedrin, Felix, Festus, and Agrippa (Acts 21-26) were masterful, but without effect. Finally, he was forced to appeal his case to Caesar when Festus proposed that he should go up to Jerusalem to be tried "concerning these things". The great apostle knew that Festus would find some pretext to turn him over to the Sanhedrin, as Pilate did the Christ, if the case should be tried in the city of David. His answer to Festus is one of the classical utterances of all time. "I stand at Caesar's judgment seat, where I ought to be judged: to the Jews have I done no wrong, as thou very well knowest. For if I be an offender, or have committed any thing worthy of death, I refuse not to die: but if there be none of these things whereof these accuse me, no man may deliver me up unto them. I appeal unto Caesar." (Acts 25:10, 11) Relieved at the prospect of getting rid of such a troublesome prisoner after two years, Festus consulted with his council and answered, "Hast thou appealed unto Caesar? Unto Caesar shalt thou go." (Acts 25:12)
Luke's description of the trip to Rome, with Paul and other prisoners, is a masterly one. When the party reached the "Eternal City" Paul was enabled to preach the gospel under nominal restraint. Luke ends his account in a manner that breathes perfectly the spirit of the Apostle to the Gentiles. "And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, and received all that came in unto him, Preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ, with all confidence, no man forbidding him."