— EDITORIAL —O Relief Society HE new year brings to Relief Society new leadership in the appointment of Sister Amy Brown Lyman as General President, Marcia Knowlton Howells, First Counselor, Donna Durrant Sorensen, Second Counselor and Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary. The reorganization is pursuant to a plan to reorganize the auxiliaries more frequently, inaugurated by the First Presidency two years ago when the Y. W. M. I. A. Was reorganized. Sister Lyman needs no introduction to the women of the Church. During her thirty years of devoted service to Relief Society, she has — visited most of the stakes and missions, presiding over the European Mission Relief Societies from 1936 to 1938. She brings to her new position not only years of experience as a Relief Society worker but rare executive ability as well as special training in the field of social welfare, which is such an important phase of Relief Society work. This, coupled with her strong testimony of the Gospel, holds great promise for the future of the Organization under her leadership. Relief Society welcomes her as its new President. Sister Howells and Sister Sorensen are also well known to the women of the Church, both having served as General Board members, Sister Howells since 1929 and Sister Sorensen since 1935. These sisters have both general and specific leadership qualities which ably fit them for their new positions. The training and experience of Sister Pohlman qualify her for the responsible position of General Secretary. At one time she was connected with the Organization in the office of the General Secretary. The strength of these sisters will result in Organization strength: We welcome them as our new leaders. The retiring Presidency leaves an enviable record of service to Relief Society. Under their leadership, the Organization has made marked progress. Membership has increased to over 80,000; the educational program has been extended, lesson material being so chosen as to provide the best in the fields of religion, literature, social service and home making. Within the last two years, two new educational courses have been introduced, "Nutrition" and "Education For Family Life." The welfare work of the Organization has also advanced. President Robison's appointment as the only woman. Member of the State Board of Public Welfare was in recognition of her understanding of the problems. Involved and the success of her activities in this field. Mormon Handicraft, the Singing Mothers and-many other features of the Relief Society program inaugurated by our retiring Presidency reflect vision and ability. Blessed with greatness. Of heart and mind, President Robison is loved throughout the Church. Her graciousness, her kindliness, her understanding and appreciation of people has endeared her to the thou- sands of women over whom she has presided. Sister Kate Barker has been richly endowed for her position as Counselor. Her splendid educational background, her quiet reserve, her deliberate, sound judgment, her tireless service in the interest of Relief Society, have been of inestimable value in its advancement. Sister Julia A. F. Lund has served as General Secretary for eleven years. Not only has she ably functioned in this position, but her special training in the field of literature has been an asset to the Society, the splendid 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

, JANUARY - 39 Literary lessons now being taught having been written by her. The ideals and standards of the great Church to which we belong have ever been foremost in the minds of our retiring officers. Relief Society women everywhere extend to them their love and sincere appreciation for the service they have rendered and pray that the same success and happiness which has attended their labors in Relief Society will accompany them wherever their activities may lead them and that the blessings of our Father will be theirs in rich abundance. Birthday Felicitations GISTER Annie Wells Cannon's varied civic and religious activities have won for her a large circle of admiring friends, over five hundred of whom extended birthday felicitations at a delightful reception held in honor of her eightieth birthday, December 7, 1939. The Relief Society General Board joined with the group in paying tribute to her. For twenty-nine years Sister Cannon has been one of the most valuable members of the General Board. A worthy daughter of a great Relief Society president, Emmeline B. Wells, her contributions to the advancement of Relief Society are beyond enumeration. Her keen intellect, her sound judgment, her willingness to serve and her strong testimony of the truth and importance of the work of Relief Society make her contributions of exceptional worth. She is an inspiration to her fellow workers. Gifted as a writer, she has enhanced greatly the value of the Relief Society Magazine, her "Happenings" being one of its best and most appreciated pages. Relief Society wishes Sister Cannon continuance of her splendid mental, physical and spiritual vigor and expresses appreciation for all that she is doing to enrich the Organization. ITEMS OF INTEREST Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest GAIN The Relief Society Magazine has the pleasure to announce the names of the winners in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest. Out of the 111 poems submitted it was difficult to make the selection of three, as many were of almost equal merit. The first prize goes to Veneta L. Nielsen of Logan, Utah, for her poem "These Hills Are Home", filled with descriptive imagery. Second prize was awarded to E. Zoan Houtz Bean of Los Angeles, for "Transition", a poem of indefinable magic. Third prize was awarded to Clara Horne Park of Salt Lake City, for her poem of tender sentiment entitled "Where Art Thou, Love?" The judges this year were Dr. S. B. Neff, head of the English Department, University of Utah, Nephi L. Morris, well known writer and contributor to magazines, and Donna Durrant Sorensen, member of the General Board of the Relief Society. We feel this contest has been influential in its encouragement to writers and has created a fine appreciation of the rare beauty of poetic verse. We thank all the contributors and gratefully acknowledge the careful consideration of the judges. Annie Wells Cannon, Julia A. F. Lund, Rosannah C., Irvine, Ida P. Beal, Rae B. Barker, Contest Committee.