(Acts 28:30, 31)
PAUL THE MARTYR.—Many scholars believe that when Paul was tried before Nero he was released. If their theory is correct, the apostle probably went east to visit branches of the Church wherein he had once labored. Then, according to tradition, he went to Spain; a late tradition even asserts he went on to Britain. Those who hold to the above theory say that eventually Paul was arrested again, brought before Nero and condemned to be beheaded by the sword. The execution probably took place by the Ostian Road. Tradition again has it that a Roman "matron named Lucina buried the body of St. Paul on her own land, beside the Ostian Road".
Paul was ready to meet his beloved Master. How appropriate are the words in his second letter to Timothy (4:7, 8): "I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith: Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing."
Questions and Problems
1. Can you come to a satisfactory decision as to when Paul became an apostle by consulting the Book of Acts and the Epistles? Do you think Paul became a member of the Twelve of his day? Could he have been ordained an apostle without being a member of the Twelve?
2. Analyze Paul's address before Agrippa. (Acts 26:1-32) What is your opinion of its quality?
3. Briefly describe Paul's journey to Rome and what befell him on the way. (Acts 27, 28)
4. Compare the circumstances under which Paul and the Prophet Joseph Smith met their respective deaths.
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 7 Kindness
"And be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you."—Eph. 4:32.
THE New Testament is replete with examples of the kindness of Jesus in dealing with people. His heart was full of compassion for the people of Jerusalem. He wept for them, although they persecuted Him. In His kindness He said, "Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not." He released the woman who was about to be stoned and caused her accusers to flee. He dealt gently with the woman of Samaria, with the sick, the blind, the leper, the ignorant, and with the learned and even the unthankful and evildoers.