[eee Vera White Pohlman GENERAL SECRETARY By Amy W. Evans VERA WHITE POHLMAN comes to the office of General Secretary and Treasurer of the Relief Society well qualified for the position. There are very few who possess such a thorough knowledge of the history, rulings and policies of the Organization as she. This knowledge was gained during twelve years as an employee of the General Board of Relief Society, from April 1, 1920 until September, 1932. From 1920 to 1926, she was private secretary to Amy Brown Lyman, then General Secretary. After her marriage, Mrs. Pohlman served in various part-time capacities and on special assignments, which included work with the Editor of the Relief Society Magazine, clerical work in the Social Service Division at the onset of the depression, and more especially, historical research and assistance to Amy Brown Lyman and Annie Wells Cannon in the preparation of. The Relief Society Handbook. During this latter period, she went extensively into the original minutes and documents of the Society, beginning with its organization in Nauvoo. To show how painstaking her work was, as she read the minutes, she not only made notes on policies, rulings and procedure but made a list of the members as they were admitted, meeting by meeting. Thus, she obtained the names Of all who joined the Society in Nauvoo. This list is published in the Relief Society Handbook. The minutes of the Organization after the establishment of the Church in Utah she read in the same careful way. The Woman's Exponent, the official organ of the Relief Society and of the women of the Church from VERA WHITE POHLMAN 1872 to 1914, contained many articles of historical value and also records of procedure and rulings of the Society. Mrs. Pohlman spent much time going over all the volumes of this publication, culling relevant information. She typed and indexed all the minutes of the Relief Society from its beginning in 1842 until 1928. Another valuable service she rendered was the checking of rulings, historical data and procedure for the Relief Society Handbook. She gave efficient and valuable help in gathering and compiling the material used in this book. In September, 1932, Mrs. Pohlman accepted full-time employment in the Salt Lake County Department of Public Welfare, which was then expanding rapidly due to the unprecedented extent of unemployment and distress, and the availability of 'the first federal funds for relief. In this position, she organized the recording and filing systems, and supervised a stenographic and clerical staff of twenty workers until the end of 1933. In January, 1934, Mrs. Pohlman went into the newly organized State Emergency Relief Administration (FERA) as. Statistician. When this emergency organization was succeeded by the creation of a permanent State Department of Public Welfare in 1935, she was appointed director of its Bureau of Research and Statistics. In this position, she was a member of the administrative staff of that Department, and contributed much to the development and establishment of its policies and procedures, and to the training of personnel in this new function of state government in Utah. Soon after her appointment, she devised 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

, JANUARY - 15 and introduced into every County Department of Public Welfare in Utah a uniform and effective system of statistical recording and reporting relating to the various types of public assistance administered by the Department of Public Welfare, including those provided under the Federal Social Security Act. An important function of her position in the State Department of Public Welfare is the interpretation of facts and figures, and the analysis of trends in public welfare. Her success in this field has been outstanding. With a flair for historical data and accurate detail, she has gathered the facts available regarding the growth and development of public welfare in the State of Utah, which have been published in the First Biennial Report, recently released by the State Department of Public Welfare. Of this publication, written and edited by Mrs. Pohlman, the following statement was made by Mr. Louis E. Hosch, Technical Consultant for the American Public Welfare Association, in his public address before the Utah State Conference of Social Work held in Salt Lake City, November last: "Your State Public Welfare Department here has just released one of the most excellent and interesting reports ever published by a State Welfare Department. The first half of this biennial report contains an excellent description of the organization and administration of the services you support through taxes. This section is carefully documented and interestingly illustrated. The latter half of the report contains more accurate detail about expenditures and accounts than you will probably find for any other service of your government." Mrs. Pohlman is also the author of the comprehensive published An- 16 - JANUARY, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 nual Report, 1934, of the Utah Emergency Relief Administration, and of the regular monthly bulletin Public Assistance in Utah, which she initiated and which is now in its fifth year. During the summer of 1935, at the request of the regional supervisor of research projects for the Federal Emergency Relief Administration, Mrs. Pohlman was granted leave of absence by the Utah State Emergency Relief Administration to go to San Francisco where she edited the findings of a survey by Margaret C. Klem on Medical Care and Costs in California Families in Relation to Economic Status. In 1936, Mrs. Pohlman represented her state at the annual conference of the American Public Welfare Association in Washington, D. C. And gave a paper before the section for relief statisticians as the representatives of the Intermountain Region. In 1938, she accepted an invitation to appear on the program as discussant in the section for social statisticians at the National Conference of Social Work at Seattle, Washington. En route to fill this assignment, she represented the State Department of Public Welfare at the Ninth Corps Area Conference of selecting agencies for the Civilian Conservation. Corps at Portland, Oregon. Mrs. Ruth B. McIntosh of Denver, Colorado, Regional Representative of the Division of Public Assistance Research of the Federal Social Security Board, expressed her appreciation of Mrs. Pohlman and her achievements by saying: "It is my personal feeling that the National Woman's Relief Society is to be congratulated on the appointment of Mrs. Vera W. Pohlman as its Executive Secretary. Mrs. Pohlman has had the reputation throughout the nation of being one of the most outstanding State Directors of Research and Statistics of a Public Welfare Department. Because of her knowledge of the welfare field and sound methods of service, and her cooperative attitude coupled with her capacity to analyze welfare problems from all angles and her sound judicial approach, this appointment will, I am sure, make for a real contribution not only to the Relief Society but to all welfare activities of the State." Mrs. Pohlman is leaving her position in the State Department of Public Welfare to accept the secretaryship of the Relief Society. Mrs. Pohlman is a descendant of Utah pioneers. Her maternal grandfather, Charles A. Harper, was a member of the company that entered Salt Lake Valley, July 2, 1847. Her parents, George F. And Eleanor Harper White, went to Nevada temporarily, and Vera was born there. They soon returned, however, to their home in Cottonwood, Salt Lake County, where she was reared. She and her husband, Francis J. Pohlman, have always been active in Church work. A secretary of Sunday School, a special home missionary, a ' teacher in Y. W. M. I. A. Are some of the positions she has held. They have two young daughters, Marilyn and Patricia. With her natural ability for details, her experience in welfare work, her fund of information regarding and thorough understanding of all phases of Relief Society work, her faithfulness to trust, and her dependability, Mrs. Pohlman will make a very efficient and valuable General Secretary.