1 The Grateful Heart By Kathleen B. Nelson "It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord, and to sing praises unto thy name, O most High: "To shew forth thy loving-kindness in the morning and thy faithfulness every night. "For thou, Lord, hast made me glad through thy work: works of thy hands. I will triumph in the "O Lord, how great are thy works! "O brutish man knoweth not; neither doth a fool understand this." AVID is one of the best loved characters in the Old Testament. Perhaps this is because he was blessed with a grateful heart. The Psalms are revealing poems of praise. Whether downcast or uplifted in spirit, David's faith in God's goodness and power is unfailing. Under all circumstances he is positive of His mercy and love. Through the cries from his grateful human heart, one feels the love of David for God and also God's watchful care of David. Blessed is any man or woman with a grateful heart. The grateful heart is the giving heart and places one in the certain way of bringing happiness to others. We should be thankful for the everyday blessings of life. To take for granted God's provision of food, shelter and clothing, to be unmindful of the blessings of sunlight, trees and stars, to lose sight of the value of friends, means we are losing the opportunity of acquiring a grateful heart—losing that precious feeling Psalm 92. That comes through gratitude and its expression. There are degrees of gratitude, and each degree differs in the joy it brings. It takes more discernment, more spiritual energy, to pluck from suffering the thorn of bitterness and, find a blessing there than to see in the laden table the evidence of God's great kindness to us. But just as it takes more, so its returns are greater. Thankfulness is a form of communication between God and man. The communication line should be kept open by keeping it in use. Then, with David of the grateful heart we, too, may say: "How excellent is thy loving-kindness, O God! Therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. "They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house; and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures. "For with thee is the fountain. Of life: in thy light shall we see light. "O continue thy loving-kindness unto them that know thee." Psalm 36.