HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
NOVEMBER— Thanksgiving can only be a reality when wars shall cease and men accept the Prince of Peace.
THE Red Cross is again called into service, and the revered name of Clara Barton, whose ardent pleadings brought America into that great mercy organization, comes to mind. Miss Barton was in Geneva, Switzerland shortly after the international treaty known as the Treaty of Geneva had its birth at Geneva, Switzerland in 1864. The idea of neutralizing all nations and parties in efforts of relief was conceived by a Swiss gentleman, Henri Dunant, who when traveling near the scene of the battle of Solferino in northern Italy was horrified at the sight of the unburied dead and uncared-for wounded and dying. On his return to Geneva, he immediately went to work to perfect an organization for the amelioration of such conditions.
QUEEN ELIZABETH, the Duchesses of Gloucester and Kent are busily engaged this fall in organizing the British women for all kinds of war work. The Dowager Marchioness of Reading headed the responsible task of getting the children and invalids out of urban danger spots, and the country estates of the titled English are their refuge.
KATE M. BARKER of the Relief Society General Presidency recently visited all the stakes and missions of the central, eastern, and southern states, and Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary of the Relief Society, made an official visit to the Oahu Stake and Hawaiian Mission.
JOHANNA SANDSTROM, 98, and Martha Wolstenholm, 85, of Utah were both honored recently on their anniversaries. Both are still actively engaged in good works.
ANNA FREUD, daughter of the psychoanalyst the late Sigmund Freud, will edit and publish her father's views on the mentality of Adolph Hitler. She was her father's collaborator.
ETHEL VANCE'S new book Escape was selected by the Book of the Month Club. It is an unusually satisfying mystery story.
MARTHA ALLEN ROBBINS of Kaysville, Utah died recently. She was 95 years old and one of the early pioneer mothers whose life story was full of interesting incidents.
MARGARET CRISMON SPENCER, a lovely daughter of pioneers, died late in September. She was a prominent figure in Salt Lake social and club life and active in Relief Society work.
 
KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD Rosannah C. Irvine Beatrice F. Stevens Nettie D. Bradford Rae B. Barker Ida P. Beal Nellie O. Parker Marcia K. Howells Anna S. Barlow Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Jennie B. Knight Belle S. Spafford Emma A. Empey Donna Durrant Sorensen Annie Wells Cannon Vivian R. McConkie Lalene H. Hart Leda T. Jensen Cora L. Bennion