[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 611 | Lesson | Theology — The Earth and Man Roy | W. Doxey]
[Theology — The Earth and Man Roy W. Doxey]

Flake, stake theology class leader; Barbara Browning as Amy Brown Lyman; Glenna Cutler as Belle S. Spafford. LaVon F. Hadley, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "At our March leadership meeting, in commemoration of the anniversary of Relief Society, stake theology leader Carol R. Flake presented these sisters during the reading of a poem 'Parade of Presidents,' written by her mother, the late Irene K. Read. Following the presentation was a brief address 'Our Heritage as Relief Society Sisters,' by President Hadley, and the song 'One Hundred Thousand Strong,' by a stake Singing Mothers group under the direction of stake chorister Julie Atkinson and stake organist Collette Howard." 610 no fighting on, the wrong Side ie telestia] glory. The € are th (Conferene Report, Oct ber 1913 Sons of Perdition, ( £TSes 23-24 ) Page 117) Perdi lOn is also kno as a kingdom b of "no glory." THE EARTH; (Verse 24 ) The Tevelation Continues in Pointing Out that the earth has SPIRITUAL — 4n eterna] estiny as wel] aS does It requires ™ revelation Man. [t IS decre dt at the faith. To Interp et n erstand that it Would be the habitation For a withstanding they die, they of the morta] tabernacles for the also shall rise 48ain, a Spiritual body = C 88: J: e: Measure of Its Creation jt Would He Said that the body is Sown a also become 4 Celestia] kingdom, natural bo » but it is Taised g:18-20, y. In order we may full Because Paul; this gs € letter understand Position in Said that "flesh and bloo cannot ~ eternal worlds llowing the Inherit the kingdom of od" esurrectio » IS to be q termined verse 50), it Is beliey d by Some he I] e Y; We are Innot of our faith hat the body is structed as fol] not actually > sed from the ETave, but that it jis the spirit of That bodies ho are Celestia] man tha revived resurrect Ingdom Possegg [the earth] ed. Is true th "fles and — it, oo ~ a fd fecttant blood" (mo tals) cannot Inherit intent are they Sanctifieg the kingdoms assigned resurrect. Ed beings, The Tesurrection of And they Who are not Sanctified Which we Shal] Partake wil] be e I I 1 icy inherit another kingdom, even that of a:: a terrestrial] Kingdom, Or that of a substance. (P. Alippians 3:20-21;; ingdo.: Amulek Put it coming Spiritual] and j (Alma 11:45). In Man will no The Prophet Joseph Smith Was emphatic IN mainta; n. I the Tesurrection Wwe no fundamenta] Prin- 4 human System Ver goes into another jn this € World to come; J Care N to the four f heaven, yet the Particles body Was As Tesurrected beings we shal] ave perfect bodies he dis. Figurement, f the flesh Will be removed Question jg Sometime raised to Whethe not there Will be difference In the resur rection h tween the p Tson who l€s in y ung adulthood Nd the One wh e Mortality at an advanced age. The Scriptures do Not speak expressly ¢ his ques tion, but Only of th Perfecteq body (Alma 11:49. » 40:23. D&C 88:23 ) Howeve, President Joseph F mith sa In the €surrection of the dead the child th aS buried IN its Infancy il] Come up Mm the fo c hat it will evelo til it re hes the ful] Measure Of the Status f its Spirit, ale (Im to Perfection will come Testitution. But the Spirit w tinue to expand an body after + As Concerning the resurrection, I will Merely Say that al] men will come 8rave I AUGUST 1965 be "added unto their stature one cubit," neither taken from it; all will be raised by the power of God, having spirit in their bodies, and not blood (DHC IV:555). KINGDOMS OF THE RESURRECTION As discussed in earlier lessons, each person will receive the reward which he has earned in the earth life. (Lesson 65, Relief Society Magazine, July 1965; Lesson 58, Relief Society Magazine, August 1964). In summary, we may quote President George Q. Cannon:... The Lord has shown to us that there are differences of rewards. Some of his children will attain to what is called celestial glory. Others of his children will not have faith enough nor exercise their agency in the direction to gain that glory; but they will gain terrestrial glory. There are others that will not progress that far; they will feel reluctant to obey the laws that pertain to the terrestrial, and they will obtain telestial glory. There are still others that will not attain even to the telestial glory. Why is it that there are these differences? Is it because God has chosen some of us for the telestial glory, some of us for the terrestrial glory, and some of us for the celestial glory? No, there is no such predestination as this. We are all born with our free agency; with the power within ourselves, aided by the blessings of God, to attain unto the highest glory. How shall we attain unto the highest glory? There is only one way, and that is by observing the highest laws. The highest laws, when obeyed, bring as a reward the highest glory; and the man or woman who expects to attain to the highest glory without obeying these laws, deceives himself or herself. It cannot be done. If I rise above the telestial glory, I must obey a law that will lift me above that. If I rise to the terrestrial glory, it will be by obeying terrestrial law. If I do not obey laws higher than that, I cannot attain to a higher glory. 614 I want to impress upon you... That our exaltation, our future glory, depends entirely upon our obedience to law. We should not lose sight of this (Conference Report, April 1900, page 54). The foregoing discussion is in harmony. With the "Olive Leaf" revelation where it is also indicated that those who become sons of perdition will be resurrected _and return to that place for which they have prepared themselves by disobedience (D&C 88: 29-32.) It is by obedience to God's law —eternal law—that blessings come and also by disobedience, a loss of one's potential blessing. And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law and perfected and sanctified by the same. That which breaketh a law, and abideth not by law, but seeketh to become a law unto itself, and willeth to abide in sin, and altogether abideth in sin, cannot be sanctified by law, neither by mercy, justice, nor judgment. Therefore, they must remain filthy still (Verses 34-35). THE RESURRECTION, WHEN? The Lord has revealed that every person who has lived upon the earth will receive a resurrection. This means both the "just and unjust" (Acts 24:15; see also Rev. 20:13, I Cor. 15:21-22). By reason of the transgression of Adam, death entered the world, and through the atonement of Jesus Christ, all mankind will be redeemed from this temporal death. There is no exception. (2 Nephi 9:6-7, 12-13; Alma 12: 16-18.) The general scriptural pronouncement is that there is a time for the righteous and a time for the unrighteous to be raised from the grave. (Rev. 20:5, 12-13; D&C 29:22-26.) There will be two general resurrections—the first, which is known as the "just," and the second, which is named the "unjust." A modern revelation, however, teaches us that these general classifications should be separated into two parts each. (D&C 88:97-102.) This revelation states that each of these resurrections, four in number, will be heralded by the sounding of an angel's trump. The first trump is at the Savior's second coming. And they who have slept in their graves shall come forth, for their graves shall be opened; and they also shall be caught up to meet him in the midst of the pillar of heaven— They are Christ's, the first fruits, they who shall descend with him first, and they who are on the earth and in their graves, who are first caught up to meet him; and all this by the voice of the sounding of the trump of the angel of God (D&C 88:97-98). It is recorded in scripture (Matt. 27:51-53 and 3 Nephi 23: 9-10) that many souls arose from the dead at the time of the Savior's resurrection. This, however, did not commence what is known to us as the first resurrection. This is clarified by President Joseph Fielding Smith in the following quotations: While there was a general resurrection of the righteous at the time Christ arose from the dead, it is customary for us to speak of the resurrection of the righteous at the Second Coming of Christ as the first resurrection (Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. II, page 295). It is the opinion of some that the resurrection is going on all the time LESSON DEPARTMENT now, but this is purely speculation without warrant in the scriptures. It is true that the Lord has power to call forth any person or persons from the dead, as he may desire, especially if they have a mission to perform which would require their resurrection. For example, we have the cases of Peter, James, and Moroni.. We are given to understand that the first resurrection yet future, which means the coming forth of the righteous, will take place at one particular time, which is when our Savior shall appear in the clouds of heaven, when he shall return to reign (Ibid., page 299). The second trump is sounded after the resurrection of the saints. The length of time between these two events is not revealed. Jesus' coming marks the beginning of the millennium, therefore, the resurrection of terrestrial beings occurs after the millennium begins: And after this another angel shall sound, which is the second trump; and then cometh the redemption of those who are Christ's at his coming; who have received their part in that prison which is prepared for them, that they might receive the gospel, and be judged according to men in the flesh (D&C 88:99). Thus ends the first general resurrection, except as that resurrection will continue into the millennium until all the worthy or honorable dead have received this blessing. At the end of the thousand years of peace and righteousness, the second general resurrection will begin with telestial beings rising from their graves: And again, another trump shall sound, which is the third trump; and then come the spirits of men who are to be judged, and are found under condemnation; 


 And these are the rest of the dead: and 1 1 again, until the end of the (Verses 100-101). Without the time interval being indicated, the last part of the last, or second resurrection, that of the sons of Perdition, is described as follows: And another trump shall sound, which is the fourth trump, Saying: There are found among those who are to remain until that great and last day, even the end, who Shall remain filthy stil] (Verse 102). VISIONS OF THE RESURRECTION We have the testimonies of Latter-day prophets concerning the resurrection, These testimonies bring to the Saint an awareness, born of the Spirit, that the resurrection is 4 reality, and that men will] come forth from their graves as they were laid down. The Prophet Joseph Smith stated: relate what I have seen IN vision in relation to this interesting theme? Those who have died In Jesus Christ fruition of joy when they come forth, which they Possessed or anticipated to each other, "My father, my son, my mother, my daughter, my brother, my sister." And when the voice calls brother, My sister; and when they are by my side, I embrace them and they me 616 All your losses will be made up to More painful: to me are the thoughts of annihilation than death. If J have expectation of seeing my friends in the morning of the resurGod has revealed His Son from the hearts, that we may even here begin to enjoy that which shall be in full hereafter ( Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 295-296). After laboring in that part (MemDhis, Tennessee) for a length of time, I received a letter from Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, in which they requested me to Stay in that country and take charge of the churches that promised me many things, and said I where there was a sofa, to pray alone. I felt full of joy and rejoicing at the promises God had made to me through the Prophet. While I was upon my knees praying, my room was filled with light. I looked and a messenger stood by my side. I arose, and this personage told me he had come to instruct me. He presented before me a panorama. He told me he wanted me to see with my eye and understand with my mind what was coming to pass in the earth before the coming of the Son of Man. He commenced with what the revelations say about the sun being turned to darkness, the moon to blood, and these stars falling from heaven. Those things were all presented to me one after another, as they will be, I suppose, when they are manifest before the coming of the Son of Man. Then he showed me the resurrection of the dead—what is termed the first and second resurrection. In the first resurrection I saw no graves nor anyone raised from the grave. I saw legions of celestial beings, men and women who had received the gospel all clothed in white robes. In the form they were presented to me, they had already been raised from the grave. After this he showed me what LESSON DEPARTMENT is termed the second resurrection. Vast fields of graves were before me, and the Spirit of God rested upon the earth like a shower of gentle rain, and when that fell upon the graves, they were opened, and an immense host of human beings came forth. They were just as diversified in their dress as we are here, or as they were laid down. This personage taught me with regard to these things.... (The Deseret Weekly, Vol. 53, No. 21, November 7, 1896, page 642). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Of what value is it to know that the soul of man consists of both body and _ spirit? 2. In what way does the earth fulfill the measure of its creation? 3. What reason might we give that the differences of age between the young and the very old will exist at the time of resurrection? 4. What did you learn from the visions of the resurrection received by Joseph Smith and Wilford Woodruff? 5. What personal guidance can Section 88 give us concerning 'a better resurrection" (Heb. 11:35)?