[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 598 | The Home | Jennette T. Chamberlain Makes Plain and | Fancy Quilts]
Jennette T. Chamberlain Makes Plain and Fancy Quilts Jennette Thomas Chamberlain of Cedar Valley, Lehi Stake, Utah, is an expert in many varieties of handwork. Her acquaintance with needles and thread and crochet hooks began in her girlhood days when she lived in the mining towns of Sunshine, Mercur, and Cedar Valley. She has made hundreds of quilts for her children, grandchildren, friends, neighbors, and relatives. She has made patch quilts, pieced quilts, appliqued quilts, and has tied heavy quilts for the use of ranchers and hunters. She has made hundreds of embroidered, crocheted, and knitted articles. She learned in the early years of her marriage that the true homemaker can create beauty in any place, and under difficult circumstances. She prizes her flowers, indoors and out, and she raises a small vegetable garden each year. She takes a keen interest in genealogy, and has helped many of her friends to make accurate records and to do temple work. She loves Relief Society and has been a visiting teacher for fifty years. Mrs. Chamberlain is the mother of fourteen children, six of whom are living, She proudly counts her grandchildren at forty, with eighty-six great-grandchildren and twelve great-great-grandchildren, and seven step-grandchildren. 595 Shirley Thulin Chapter 4 Synopsis: Joan Morgan, superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest Hospital, encourages Tom, a young paralyzed patient, to think of the things that he will be able to do, and to plan for his future. Joan is criticized for this attitude. The hospital administrator, Dr. Niles, appears to be a stern and withdrawn person, and Joan wonders what he is really like. Kathy, who is a niece of Dr. Niles, invites Joan to spend a week end at the family farm. ® Joan settled back in the leather seat and felt the ripple of excitement go through the atmosphere inside the bus. People going someplace, she thought, are interesting. She looked around her. Nearly everyone was_ smiling, even Kathy, though the feeling between her and Joan was still not what it had been the first day she had asked Joan to come home with her for the week end. "Your folks know I'm coming?" Joan asked. "Yes, I called them yesterday. I can just see Mom. She's been cooking and cleaning all day." "Oh, I hope she doesn't go to too much bother."' "Don't worry, she loves it. A week-end guest keeps her going all the rest of the month. Gives her something to think about." "I can't wait to meet her." "I hope you won't be bored. There isn't much to do just talk, and ride horses, maybe." "I']1 just love it. I've missed the farm." ""You've lived on a farm?" "Most of my life." "I'd never have known you're so so different from the farm folks I know." Kathy reddened a little, as if she wished she hadn't said that, and Joan decided to pretend not to notice. Mrs. Kirk was just about as Joan had pictured her. A lot like Kathy, only taller and with the same dark eyes. There were laugh wrinkles in her face and around her eyes, and she gave Kathy a big hus as though she hadn't seen her for months instead of only a week. Mr. Kirk was brown and tall. He was friendly, too. The drive from the station to their farm took only a few moments, and they didn't get a chance to say much. Joan felt as if she'd always known these people. "Where are the children?"

she 


 asked as they pulled up to the front gate. "There wasn't room to bring them all, so we left them home," Mr. Kirk explained. "Get ready for the attack," Kathy warned Joan. No sooner had she: said it than children seemed to appear from every direction, all talking at once and nearly taking Kathy apart with affection. "Take it easy kids. Hey, I want you to meet my friend." Joan looked at each child as Kathy recited names and ages. 'Barbara is fourteen, and Richard twelve, Bonnie ten, Lisa nine, and little Joey six." The others said "Hello" or "Hi" as they were introduced, but Joey smiled with a special smile and his eyes sparkled. "You're pretty," he said, "want to see my duck? Pester had some babies. Want to see?' "Oh, not now, Joey let Joan come in and put her things away, Kathy told him. "Besides, it's too dark," his mother reminded. And Joan realized that it was dusk, though she hadn't noticed before. Joey took Joan's hand and stayed near her all through the evening meal and right up until he was sent to bed. "In the morning will you come and see Pester?" he asked. "TI surely will, Joey." Joan watched him follow the other children through the doorway, and there was a special feeling inside her. THE evening passed all too soon; Mr. And Mrs. Kirk were interesting. The conversation was stimulating, and just before Kathy showed Joan to her room, 600 they went for a walk to the barnyard to check the water trough. "Richard forgets to fill it sometimes," Mrs. Kirk explained, but Kathy laughed. "She only wanted you to have an excuse to be outdoors and see our country nights," Mr. Kirk explained. "I'm glad," Joan said, and she really was. The night was so still and so gentle, it felt as if it were wrapping its arms around her. She almost had forgotten how big and bright a country moon could get. "It's so lovely." She stood by the fence post and looked up, and felt the breeze touch her. "Now you see why I come every week end?" Kathy asked. Joan shivered. She suddenly felt a chill go through her. "'Let's go inside," she said. Joan couldn't believe her ears. She was awakened by shouts of "Wake up, Joan, it's morning and you said you'd come see Pester."' She opened her eyes and could barely see the outline of Joey against the faint light of the window. "Joey my goodness it's still night time," she said. "No, it's morning, see." He pulled the blind so hard it flipped up and around and around. The room didn't look much lighter with the blind up than it did before. "Tell you what," she said. "You come in my bed until it's light enough to see Pester. Besides, the ducks will still be asleep, and they won't like it if we wake them up so early." Joey slipped into the bed beside Joan and promptly fell asleep. But Joan didn't sleep any more that morning. The nearness of the child brought a contentment to her that she had never felt before. Everything was so still and peaceful. I can't do it, she told herself. I can't tell Kathy to stay at the hospital, not even for one week end. Then she smiled. Kathy's strategy won out, she thought. She knew I'd give in if she could get me to come here with her. THE visit to Pester and her baby ducks turned out to be a visit to every animal on the farm, accompanied by every child in the family, and all before breakfast. My, such chatter and such excitement! It wore Joan out, but she loved every minute of it. By the time they reached the house, she was more than ready for the big old-fashioned farm breakfast. "Did they walk your legs off?" Mrs. Kirk asked. "Almost, but it was fun, and I now know every animal's first name." "Tl bet you do," laughed Kathy. "I'll bet you'll never want to come back again." "On the contrary." Joan looked right at Kathy. "I'll be envying you every week end." Kathy looked quickly at her mother, then back at Joan. "Every week end?" she asked. "She can come home, like always?" Mrs. Kirk was looking at Joan, too. "Well " Joan smiled. "It's as Kathy said, if no one else seems to mind, why should I?" "Oh, Joan."' Kathy's voice was soft, and her eyes told what she couldn't find the words to say.