GUIDE LESSONS. 515 Genealogy. SOURCES OF INFORMATION (Dec. 21). LIBRARIES AND BOOKS. The extent and scope of genealogical libraries is astonishing to most people. The millions of dollars spent for spacious and costly buildings, for rare and expensive books comes as a surprise to the uninitiated. Nearly every section of the United States has its district genealogical association with the usual library. Among the New England people there is the Boston or New England Genealogical Society Library; for the early Dutch and Knickerbockers, there is the New York Society and Library; for the Quakers and Pennsylvania Dutch, there is the Pennsylvania Society and Library in Philadelphia; the New Jersey people have their own at Trenton; the Old Northwest Society includes Illinois, Ohio, Kansas, Minnesota, Indiana, and Iowa; for the West, the California Society at San Francisco; and for all our people, the Utah Genealogical Society and Library in Salt Lake City. In all of these libraries, emphasis is laid on the sectional work and family lines, yet all of them possess also the standard genealogical books. The list of standard English and American books will be found in our Lesson Books. Our Utah Genealogical Library has most of these standard books. The earnest student will certainly pay a good visit to our library each time he comes to the city. Theatres, fairs, shops, all these are of small value compared with the great worth of such a collection of possibilities as are in our own genealogical library. Not once, but every time possible, our students should visit and work in our library. Here, as in other similar libraries, is the most important and fruitful source of information in the world. Let the class read chapter 7 in our new Lesson Book on Sources of Information. FOR EXERCISE. Procure a printed genealogical or family history, from which take a few original examples to place on the blackboard, numbering the same, and giving proper heirship and relationship. Compare modes of arranging pedigrees as shown in printed records. 
 Home Ethics and Art. Lesson IV. ? The Sin of Ingratitude. (December 28th.) ETHICS. The old English prayer book contains a significant prayer for our sins of commission and of omission. Most people feel pleased and grateful ? at the time ? for gifts which are given, and for favors which are shown. But too often they forget, or omit: first, to express gratitude; and second, to remember the obligation. It is true that gifts are sometimes given ostentatiously, and obligations are brought up constantly, and therefore offensively. It is almost a sin to parade a favor or to boast of an obligation. Latter-day Saints have been trained in the stern school of self-control and self-repression. But they should not allow these traits to make them cold, ungrateful or unresponsive. This is so much the age of the child, that the child is in danger of growing up selfish, self-centered, and ungrateful. Too often, children say to parents, "I think you owe me this, or that pleasure, treat, or advantage." Parents "owe" children no more than children "owe" parents. Children selfishly marry, unwisely choose an expensive career, refuse to attend family or religious duty, and give not a thought to the sacrifices made by parents, nor to obligations they owe to parents who have given life itself almost to their children. Children should be guarded against the sin of ingratitude, by constant and rigid training in unselfishly seeking the welfare of parents and family before their own; also they should be trained to say and to feel ? "thank you," for kindnesses shown, favors done, or gifts bestowed. Ingratitude is a sin, denounced by society, the state, and by heaven itself. The ungrateful child is despised by society, and is legislated against in some countries. Ancient Babylonia and Assyria, as well as Judea, had strict laws compelling an outward observance, at least, of gratitude and reverence on the part of children for parents. Paul describes the present apostate condition of the world in II Timothy 3:2, referring especially to men being "blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy." David, in his exquisite psalms, exhorts all created nature to gratitude and thanksgiving to God for all his mercies. Yet, how ungrateful is mankind today, to parents, to associates, to benefactors, to the aged, to public servants, and to God the Father of all. GUIDE LESSONS. 
 1. What are some sins of omission? 2. When are we absolved from expressing or even feeling grateful for a favor? 3. What do you think of selfish and ungrateful people? 4. Are your children properly grateful to their father and mother? 5. Quote II Timothy 3. 6. How can you train your family to be grateful? 7. Is it enough to feel grateful, or should we also express gratitude? 8. When do you express your gratitude to your husband, your friends and to your Maker? ART. The Christmas month always brings thoughts of the Christ child and his mother Mary. So many of the members of Relief Society have come from foreign lands, where numberless beautiful pictures are seen, that we feel to dedicate the art lesson to these sisters of foreign extraction. We suggest the following program: A. Describe in your native tongue a beautiful picture or statue of the Christ child and Mary his mother that you saw in your native land; translation may follow. B. Describe a beautiful scene, or church, or work of art in your native land. Translation may follow. C. Describe a park with its trees, flowers, paths, fountains, statues, in your native land. D. With what great European artists are you acquainted? E. Describe your native home. Is the roof thatched, slate, tile, etc.? F. Have you ever seen the Midnight Sun? Describe it. If there are Scandinavians, let them describe the snow-scenes, the fjords, etc. G. Describe the English Christmas, the German Christmas, the French Christmas. H. What decorations are used in your native home for Christmas or festive occasions? What can be utilized in your present location for Christmas decoration? Make a plan for your Christmas table showing the decorations to be used. Mrs. Horne wishes to announce that she has made arrangements with the publishers, and can now offer her Art Book ? Devotees and Their Shrines ? for $1.00. 
 THE CROWN THAT I WOULD WEAR. Oh, talk not to me of your earthly crowns, Her titles and honors I'd laugh to scorn. For I would tell of a beautiful crown, E'en angels and gods might covet when worn. 'Tis the glorious crown of motherhood, 'Tis the crown I long for, prize, and love, 'Tis the deepest dream, the least understood, The celestial star in heaven above. Oh, give me the crown of pure motherhood! I crave and I hunger for babies' love; In that holy bliss I discern a power That swayeth empires and kingdoms move. Then go with your empty baubles of fame; Yes, go with your shallowness, show and dress: A pure mother's love shall be my empire, My heaven a baby's sweet caress. Oh, give me the joyous laugh and the thrill Of healthy and innocent childhood's glee. This rejected cup I would quaff and fill At the fountain that flows from eternity. Let the childless queen of dame fashion strut, Let her proudly boast of a life so free: The Lapland mother in her rude ice hut Drinks deeper of happiness than she. Then give me the joys of sweet motherhood; The title is sacred and most divine. Her crown will be lasting and count for good. Oh, grant that this title and crown be mine. Oh, sainted mothers of the good and wise, Of the great, the noble, the pure, the true, Ye are queens of heaven in earth's disguise, Your true worth was never quite understood. Name me a monarch, prophet, or foreman, Or warrior who worthy battles fought, But owes his being and body to woman, Born by thee, nurtured, fed, clothed, reared and taught. Then fling your earthly crowns unto the wind, Or crumble them low in the dust of earth; Intelligence fittingly crowns the mind With brightest jewels of the choicest worth. THE CROWN THAT I WOULD WEAR. 519 Then let my empire be a world of love, Where selfishness reigns not, but only good; Let me submit to heaven's first great law, And taste the blessed fruits of motherhood. Then lightly spurn it, ye of worldly mind, But lo, your day of sad regret's at hand. For me, my life I dedicate with joy To please the Lord and carry out his plan. Right gladly I'd suffer those hours of pain; What were an hour in the valley of death Compared with so great and eternal gain As that e'en one mortal through me hath breath. Naught but sweet praise to the Father above For this grandest privilege of life on earth, And my soul shall ever be full of love For the blessed mother who gave me birth. Annie G. Lauritzen. St. George, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Devotees and Their Shrines REDUCED TO $1.00 Postpaid The History of English and American Architecture will be studied in 1916 from Mrs. Home's Art Book. Send now and be ready for the years work. Southern Pacific The Road of a Thousand Wonders The Standard for Safety Service Scenery Comfort Convenience Courtesy Don't Travel Haphazardly Plan Your Trip It Is Less Expensive To Travel Right Do you want full and accurate information from those who know Write, or better still, come into our new offices and have your trip to the TWO BIG EXPOSITIONS and CALIFORNIA arranged by those who have spent years of travel and study on the Pacific Coast. We Are Paid to Answer Questions and Like Our Work For itineraries and beautiful literature on California write or call on C. L. McFAUL, District Passenger Agt. Second Floor, Walker Bank Building SALT LAKE CITY  YOU to own a It's so easy for GRAFONOLA COLUMBIA ?J Here is shown the "JEWEL" model? ? a high-grade instrument that will bring you "All the music of all the world ? any music at any time."

OWN the GRAFONOLA

The secret of the ever-increasing popularity of the GRAFONOLA

In sheer tonal beauty it is supreme. The tone is so ROUND and RICH and NATURAL.

This fine "JEWEL" GRAFONOLA

Buy the GRAFONOLA if you want the BEST.

With 24 Fine Selections
(12 Double-disc Records)
ONLY $49.50
$10 Cash? $5 a Mo.

Catalog showing all styles from $17.50 up mailed FREE

"OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH"

Convenience
and Courtesy

Every man in this bank will be glad to help you, in every way possible. Our men do not work for the bank but with the bank. In fact you might say they are part of the bank.

If there is anything about banking you do not understand, they will be glad to explain it to you.

A bank could not be more conveniently located ? right in the heart of the business center? corner of Broadway and Main ? with an entrance from both streets. One of the lightest and best ventilated institutions in the city. An ideal bank to do business with. Step in and meet us.

"The Bank With a Personality"

Merchants Bank
Capital, $250,000. Member of Salt Lake Clearing House.
Authorized Capital, $5,000,000.
John Pingree, Prest.; Chas. E. Kaiser, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Cashier. Cor. Main and 3rd. So., Salt Lake City, Utah.

The Demand For
Fresh Butter
? Is satisfied with two brands, made from pure cream from the country and recognized as the pioneers of all butters ? "Four-in-One" and "Blanchard". The first is wrapped in separate quarter-size prints. When you take one from the package the remaining three are protected with their clean parchment paper covering.

"Blanchard" is a full pound print.

You can depend on either of these butters, from any grocer.

MUTUAL CREAMERY
COMPANY
Member of 11 Creameries in 7 States.
Annual Butter Output, 8,000,000 pounds

It's FREE -send for the little book "Cameos"

Three thousand words on Cameos
Not a Catalogue, but an interesting, instructive article on Cameos
The only book of its kind published

W. M. McCONAHAY, Jeweler
64 Main Street, Salt Lake City

Cameos in Rings, Scarf Pins, Neck Chains and Brooches, write about them

UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE

Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation.

Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at

The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.

RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS

For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods
Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request

CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street

ASK YOUR DEALER FOR

Z. C. M. I.
Western Scout Shoes

The ideal summer shoes for men, youths and boys. Worn extensively by carpenters, iron workers, boy scouts, etc.

Cheap
Serviceable, Comfortable.

"Mountaineer" and "The Leader"

Overalls don't rip, they are guaranteed for wear.

The Most Interesting,
Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections
of the West

ARE REACHED VIA

Including
Ogden Canyon
Bear River Canyon
Shoshone Falls
Yellowstone Park
Jackson Hole Country
Lost River Country
Wood River Country
The Snake River
Payette Lakes Country
Columbia River and
Pacific Coast Resorts

Excursions North
September 11 and 25

Pacific Coast Excursions
Daily to November 30th

For Descriptive Literature, address
D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah