Notes_from_Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes From the Field
By Amy Brown Lyman
Salt Lake Stake (Mothers' Festival). Congratulations are due Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams, president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, and her co-workers for the excellent record made during the year; also for the successful mothers' pageants held in each of the wards in May. In order to increase the membership in the various wards, and to encourage the young mothers to attend, it was decided by the stake board when the year's program was outlined in September, ae to adopt a stake slogan and to hold a mothers' festival in ay. The slogan was, "Every mother a member in the Relief Society." The stake, together with each of the 13 wards, had banners tastefully decorated with the above inscription and placed in all of the ward chapels and Relief Society rooms. A topic on this subject was also incorporated in the ward Relief Society conferences during the past year. In order to help finance the program for the mothers' festival, a stake bazaar was held May 4th, in which all wards participated. One feature of the afternoon was a drawing for attendance prizes, the articles being donated by local business houses in the stake. This event was cleverly conducted by Mr. Ben Erway of the Wilkes Theatre. In the evening a most creditable entertainment was given. The musical program was presented by some of the best local talent in the city. A one-act play, "So's Your Aunt Anna," was given by stake and ward members. This brought out unusual talent which will be of future service to the stake. The net proceeds of the bazaar were $160.00. Each ward was given tickets to sell and the wards were allowed 50% of the proceeds. _In preparation for the mothers' festival each ward was given a suggestive program and letter of instructions, together with copies of the ladies' trio, "Mother," composed by Alfred M. Durham of the 17th ward Bishopric and dedicated to the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, also lists of mother stories for retold stories, and games for the kindergarten group. On the appointed day everything was-in readiness.~ The ward amusement halls were all tastefully decorated with palms and plants. Booths of art work made at the work and business meetings were upon exhibit. The visiting teachers were most gracious as reception committees. WOMEN WHO HAVE HAD CONTINUOUS MEMBERSHIP IN THE SALT LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY FROM FIFTY TO SIXTY YEARS Back row?left to right: Sarah C. Folsom, Eliza Thomas, Frances Wallace, Ethelwynne Pratt. Front row ?left to right: Lucinda Ure, Hettie Davis, Emma Taylor, Effie M. Ashton ? The following program was carried out in each ward: 1:30?Reception by 'Ward and Stake Officers. 1:55?Music: Ward organist?Lullaby music. Program?2:00 O'clock Singing: Congregation. Prayer. Music. Welcome: Ward President?5 minutes. Music. Short retold story: Ward Literary Teacher?10 minutes. The Glory of Motherhood: Stake Board member?5 minutes. Music. Short Drama: "Cornelia" (Relief Society Magazine, November, 1926?30 minutes). Music Presentation of prizes. (a) Oldest mother present. (b) Youngest mother present. (c) Mother with largest family present. (d) Mother with husband or children on missions. (e) Mothers who had given the greatest number of missionaries to the Church. (f) Mother making the best Relief Society attendance record during 1927-1928. (g) Stake prize for mother present with the longest membership record in Relief Society in Salt Lake. Stake. (h) Stake cash prize to the wards having the greatest number of new members (on percentage basis) from September, 1927, to May 15, 19281lst prize $7.00; 2nd prize $5.00; 3rd prize $3.00 to the ward having the best attendance at Union meeting. Grand march of mothers, led by those who have borne the most children. Presentation of mother cards (furnished by stake board) by Mutual or Primary girls. Light refreshments (served cafeteria style). Doxology. Benediction. The results and total count showed the following: Mothers present 1,500 Grandmothers 500 500 Great Grandmothers.......... 105 Great great Grandmothers..................... 3 Oldest mother present?age........... 88 
 Youngest mother present?age............ 17 Mothers who had filled missions................ 25 Mothers who had had the longest continuous membership in Salt Lake Stake Relief Society: Mrs. Hettie Davis...........66 years Lucinda Ure...62 " "Ethelwynne Pratt............Eliza Thomas............ 54 Frances Wallace............ Sarah C. Folsom.............50 Emma Taylor............ Effie M. Ashton..........50 When it was found that there were eight women who had had over fifty years membership in Salt Lake Stake, the stake board was more than delighted to give eight gifts instead of one. The wards having the greatest number of new members with paid up dues (on percentage basis) from September, 1927, to May 15, 1928, and receiving prizes, were: 17th Ward 1st prize?38 new members. 14th Ward 2nd prize?l9 new members. 23rd Ward 3rd prize?Most perfect attendance at Union meeting. The total number of new members in all wards was 138. As a surprise to the ward presidents each was given a prize as the Mother of the Relief Society. One ward presented the Bishop with a gift as the Father of the ward. The festival was the most successful and inspiring activity in the history of the stake; as a result, many old members have renewed their activities in the various wards. One factor which contributed to the great success of the festival was the careful planning by the stake board. The following suggestions were sent out far in advance of the festival date? May 115: 1. Secure the use of the amusement hall. Have a booth of articles that have been made at your work and business meeting on exhibition. Decorate hall. 2. Have nothing gloomy and sad in this program. 3. Feature mother songs and lullaby music. 4, Invite all mothers of the ward regardless of creed. 5. Have nursery arranged in another part of the building for small children (Stake recreational leader will provide suggestive games for this group; also assist you with the drama. Enlist the cooperation of M. I. A. Girls). 6. Arrange for gifts, for prizes, and for souvenirs of the day for each mother present, such as flowers, candy, mother cards, etc. 7. Send a gift to the mothers who are home-bound, or who are absent because of illness. 8. Honor those who have taken children to rear just as though they had borne them. 9. Secure the gifts for prizes by having some of the articles made at your work and business meeting, or at a specially appointed work day. (Stake art teacher will have suggestions for you). 10. Collect contributions from business houses in your wards, and ask the Bishop to cooperate with you in raising funds for this occasion. Funds may also be secured from the sale of tickets for the stake entertainment, May 4, 1928. 11. Have the gifts and prizes wrapped and numbered the day before the festival. 12> Ask each pair of teachers to prepare a complete list of mothers in their district and hand to you at the work and business meeting in April. The teachers should also have a copy with them at the festival and act as a reception committee, each teacher paying special attention to those from her district. 13. All Relief Society officers and visiting teachers should be at the meeting house at 1:30 p. M. 14. A stake board member will be assigned to each ward to help carry forward this program. Report to her the day of the festival the number of new members enrolled since September, 1927. 15. The stake music department will provide list of suitable musical numbers; the stake literary leader will assist in preparing suitable story if desired. 16. The visiting teachers' leaflet for May will be devoted to the festival, and will convey an invitation to all mothers in the ward. 17. See that announcements are made at Sacrament meetings regarding the festival. A leaflet was distributed by the teachers the first week in May, with the following inscription and invitation: "Mother's Day is a pretty idea which has taken root in our country and seems destined to grow.' It was Miss Ann Jarvis of Philadelphia who succeeded in getting a day set apart as a national Mother's Day. It is a day when every man, woman and child should honor his mother in some way. "The Salt Lake Stake Relief Society has set apart May 15th for a Mother's Festival in your ward to honor our mothers. We desire the attendance of every woman in the ward that we may rejoice together in the bonds of love and friendship, and mingle 
 our voices in song and thanksgiving for the greatest of all human responsibilities?that of motherhood." REORGANIZATIONS European Mission. Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, wife of President John A. Widtsoe of the European mission, was appointed president of the Relief Societies of this mission the first of the year, succeeding Mrs. May Booth Talmage, who, with her husband, President James E. Talmage, was honorably released from missionary labors in Europe. Immediately upon her appointment, Mrs. Widtsoe set about to plan for the 'year's work. She first sent out a circular letter of greeting to all the branch societies, and arranged that instructions and suggestions would be sent out from time to time in the Auxiliary Guide, a copy of which accompanied her letter. The Guide is a neat mimeographed paper filled with instructions and items of interest to the auxiliary organizations in" Europe. Through the courtesy of President Widtsoe the Millennial Star of March 15 was devoted largely to the work of the Relief Society and the work of the women of the Church, containing articles by Mrs. Widtsoe, and an editorial by President Widtsoe. It was called the "Anniversary Number" in honor of the anniversary of the Society which occurred March 17. Mrs. Widtsoe is visiting the branches of the Relief Society as time permits, and is enthusiastic in her reports of the excellent work of the Relief Societies of Europe. European Mission ?London District. The 86th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was commemorated in the London District, March 18th. Relief Society meetings were held in the South London and Holloway branches, while the St. Albans and Watford Societies -held their meetings conjointly in the Watford branch hall. The evening was well spent and a goodly number were in attendance at all of the meetings. A suitable and well arranged program was ably carried out. Some of the subjects of the discourses delivered were: "The organization of the Relief Society, Work Accomplished, 'System of Work, Courses of Study for 1927 and for 1928." Special mention was made of the "Relief Society Efficiency Chart," instituted during the month of February, which has stimulated much interest in the several societies and from the summed up totals, an average check rates a high record of efficiency. Special mention should be made also of the fact that about 65% of those attending meetings regularly had read 10 pages of the Book of Mormon each week during the month of February. Reports were given of the good work that has been done in the past year?especially the charitable assistance rendered during the Winter season. Strong and convincing testimonies were borne by the sisters, each testifying of the joy that has come through administering to the wants of the suffering and those who are in need. Special musical numbers were given, and at the close of the meetings each went his way rejoicing to {know what a marvelous work and a wonder is being done by the faithful sisters of the Relief Society. Due to the great distance of travel, it is impossible for the women of this district to make regular monthly visits, but in most cases each of the members is visited monthly. Australian Mission. Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of the Relief Societies of the Australian mission, writes in part as follows: "I have just returned from a trip around the districts of the mission, visiting all the Relief Society organizations, covering nearly 8,000 miles in the journey. During the early months of each year, conferences are held throughout the mission, which gives me the opportunity of visiting among the sisters and assisting them so far as I am able in their work in the Relief Societies. All of them are taking up the theological studies and are caring for the needy. JI found the sisters who are presiding in the organizations enjoying a good spirit, anxious to keep pace with the work and willing to accept suggestions. I was able to introduce in one or two of our organizations the child welfare work, and we have sent for the books necessary to carry on this work. I believe this study will soon be general throughout the mission. I was very much gratified with the general condition of the Societies and grateful for the opportunity of doing my bit toward their advancement." Northern States Mission. With the release of Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, Mrs. Allie Y. Pond, wife of President Noah F. Pond, was appointed to preside over the (Relief Societies of the mission. Mrs. Taylor has left the organizations in excellent condition, and the work is going forward in an efficient manner under the new president. Utah Stake. On June 2, 1928, the Utah Stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Electa S. Dixon was honorably released as president. And Mrs. Achsa E. Paxman was appointed to succeed her. Among other things, Mrs. Dixon has accomplished some outstanding health work, which will stand as a monument to her administration. It was by good cooperative work of Mrs. Dixon and the other Utah County Relief Society presidents, and the State Board of Health, that a county health unit was established 
 in Utah county. Mrs. Paxman has for the last two sessions been a member of the Utah State Legislature, sitting in the House of Representatives. Yellowstone Stake. The Yellowstone stake Relief Society was reorganized on June 10, 1928. Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd resigned as president on account of change of residence, and was honorably released, with appreciation for her excellent and faithful service. Mrs. Ellen J. Murri was appointed president, with Mrs. Mary A. White and Mrs. Adrena W. Young as counselors, and Mrs. Elva Orme as secretary-treasurer. Fremont Stake. On June 17, the Fremont Stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Marie M. Merrill, who has moved from the stake, was honorably released, and Mrs. IM. May Grover was appointed to succeed her. Mrs. Grover's counselors are Mrs. Artemesia Romney and Mrs. Nora Davis, and her secretary treasurer, Mrs. Jessie Atkinson. Mrs. Grover has served as secretary under Mrs. Merrill and is familiar with the good work done by Mrs. Merrill and her assistants, and with their plans for the future of the stake. Eastern States Mission. The Relief Society of the New York branch held a concert on March 22nd in the Chamber Music Room of Carnegie Hall in honor of the anniversary of the organization. The artists for the occasion were John Parish, tenor, and Samuel Harwell, pianist ?both former residents of Salt Lake City. An informal reception followed the concert. The officers of the New York Relief Society are Mrs. Marian C. Bennion, president; Miss Lorena C. Fletcher and Mrs. Jennie C. Stoddard, counselors; and Mrs. Donnette K. McAllister, secretary-treasurer. The guests of honor on this occasion were: President and Mrs. Henry H. Rolapp, Miss Lola Bradford, president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission, Mrs. Lydia Newcomb, president Brooklyn Relief Society, Mrs. Cora Ameling, president Newark Relief Society and Mrs. Minnie Lange, president Hoboken Relief Society. The patrons included a large group of Utah people now residents of New York City. A neat program was arranged for the event.