[Vol42 | May 1955 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest| Author: [No author listed - this is a contest announcement]]
THE Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest for 1955 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1955.

The prizes this year will be as follows:
First prize ...................$50
Second prize ................$40
Third prize .................$30

The three prize-winning poems will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1956. Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.

Rules for the contest:
1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and employees of the general board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The poem must not exceed 50 lines in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.)
4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a sealed envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the poem. Nom de plumes are not to be used.
5. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying:
   a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
   b. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work.
   c. That it has never been published.
   d. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication.
   e. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.
6. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
7. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision.

In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points:
a. Message or theme
b. Form and pattern
c. Rhythm and meter
d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem
e. Climax

8. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1955.
