[Vol42 | May 1955 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
EDITORIAL DS WSL. 


 ve Word of Appreciation WO small brothers were given books. One raised a cheery face and called, "Thank you," the other one took the book silently and moved away. Perhaps the second child was appreciative, but the donor was left unaware of his feelings. These children had received the same home training, but the natural, individual dispositions of children in a family require different emphasis in the training. It seems natural and easy for some people to express their appreciation while others remain silent, whether because of shyness, diffidence, or ungratefulness is not evident. Some may have the impulse to express thanks but before the expression becomes a reality, other immediate duties push it aside stillborn. Yet an expression of appreciation is welcomed by everyone. No matter what one's worldly wealth, opportunities, and advantages, he will always welcome a sincere word of appreciation. Everyone needs to be built up and encouraged, for each person has moments of self-doubt and despondency, whose frequency depends upon changing factors. One may deliver a speech, or give a demonstration, after many hours of preparation. How disheartening if none commends the effort. Some in the audience may feel that the speaker has been in the public eye so long and been recognized for so many years, that he would not wish to be congratulated. Nothing could be Page 304 farther from the truth, for great people are simple people and subject to the same feelings as the rest of humanity. If it seems out of place to go forward and express appreciation, or if there is no opportunity then, there is always the tomorrow when one may phone or write. There is recalled a friendship between two men which began many years ago. It started by one writing to commend the other on a stand which he had taken on a public issue, unpopular at the time. For some years their only contacts were by further letters, as the one followed with admiration the activities of the second, from afar. The appreciative comments were encouraging to the public servant, and the contacts ripened into a_ personal friendship over the years. A mother in the home needs encouragement. Her heavy duties, albeit a joy to her, become monotonous. It is told how one mother, yearning for a word of appreciation in return for three well-cooked meals a day, finally served her family salad bowls filled with fresh grass clippings. In response to their consternation, she replied that she had decided they didn't know what they were eating, as they never said a word, but just ate and left. Thereafter that mother was showed appreciation in words. One husband who was told of this incident, since then comments "good grass" at the end of a particularly good meal. EDITORIAL While some men seem embarrassed to express appreciation in words, a wife is grateful for appreciation however it may be expressed. Recently a father was uplifted by being told that his daughter had said he was wonderful and very special. That remark was precious to him, for so often children do not express appreciation, although they may feel it deeply. A word of love and appreciation from a child to a mother will cause her heart to sing. Likewise, a mother should express love and appreciation to her children and not confine herself to words of correction, as is too often the case. In times of discouragement, children recall words of praise and are given a desire to do better. Latter-day Saint women receive a great training in unselfishness and independence just being the wives of husbands who obey the call to service in the Church. Likewise, a husband manifests unselfish devo- 305 tion to his family when he encourages his wife to accept a call to Church service which may take her away from him and their children at times. The appreciation of one for the other is a requisite. One should never fail to express appreciation to the great General Authorities, the physicians of souls. They have poured out to them daily the sorrows and unrighteous conduct of others to heal and to bind up, for Church members look upon their leaders as belonging to them —as their own. The appreciation of all Church members to them should be repeatedly expressed, and actions should support their words of appreciation. If Christ himself had to ask, "Where are the nine?" certainly each person would do well to remind himself constantly of the need to express appreciation to his fellow men and to his God. —M. C. S. Legacy (Proverbs 6:6-10) Elsie McKinnon Strachan This proverb I would leave to you my son: "Go to the ant... Consider her ways, and be wise." No overseer, guide, or ruling one Dictates her quitting time, her hour to rise. No master sends her forth up dawn's chill path Where shadows linger still and sleep prevails; Nor is it fear of dictatorial wrath That speeds her questing feet down alien trails. "".. A little folding of the hands..." is good For contemplation—when the crops are in, When hearth fires feed from mountain-stacks of wood, When lofts are full and wheat spills from the bin— But be not too content to slumber now, Life's harvest follows first the early plow! PLATE A—"THE FLOWER GARDEN" ' Se — Rarer: ae sae' Nex was ex KR SS Se Se BS ' Bo; eet Designing Original Applique and Block Quilts Velma MacKay Paul ESIGNING one's own quilts D gives the greatest joy of all. My first attempt (Plate A), called the "Flower Garden,' was made about twenty years ago, when I saw for the first time an early Pennsylvania Bride's Quilt with no two patches alike. I resolved to make one. With no patterns to guide me, and no quilt to copy Page 306 from, I made circles with plates, smaller ones around saucers, drew grapes, flowers, etc., until I arrived at something I liked. I cut geometric designs by folding papers in fourths and eighths and cutting crescents, squares, or scallops. When unfolded, some of them were lovely. I cut out various flowers and leaves, and when I had a few patterns I DESIGNING ORIGINAL APPLIQUE AND BLOCK QUILTS 307 liked, I proceeded to cut them out of materials. New ideas popped up as I progressed, and, when twentyfive were completed, I arranged and rearranged until the quilt shown was decided upon. In addition to the quilting of the background, each leaf, flower, and stem is outlined to make it stand out. Quilting should never cover any part of an applique motif. With twenty-five original patterns, I realized I had the possibility of twenty-five quilts and began experimenting. Taking first the grape pattern (second from the left on the top row of the bride's quilt), I made some patterns on paper and laid them block to block. 'This resulted in the quilt shown in Plate B. Plate C, called "My Favorite Quilt," is a combination of several patterns. I knew I would never in this world have time to work them all into real quilts, so I arrived at an easier solution. I drew fifty different designs on a paper marked off in squares of one and one-half inches, putting a different pattern in each square. I then cut a stencil and had fifty copies mimeographed. The squares were then cut apart and each pattern placed with those of its kind in a separate box. 'The idea was to combine different patterns or to try all of one kind together as I had with the grape design. When I found one I liked, I pasted the PLATE, B—GRAPE, DESIGN Illustration shows three-fifths of quilt. 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 PLATE C "MY FAVORITE QUILT" (Three-fifths of quilt shown) PLATE D—BIRD AND WREATH BRIDE'S QUILT (Three-fifths of quilt shown) The center block shows the double-headed dove, the dove for peace, the heart, the goodness of mankind. The joined doves symbolize their union with peace and love in their hearts. The conventionalized birds, always looking backwards, in the row above, speak in this region's lore of the resurrection and eternal life. In this same block, the three tulips coming from one stem represent the Holy Trinity. The border blocks are alternately a conventionalized pomegranate, denoting fertility, promising a home with children, and the Dutch rose symbolizing health; and the oak leaf, denoting strength. DESIGNING ORIGINAL APPLIQUE AND BLOCK QUILTS 309 copies on a sheet of paper; so—on paper—I made up about twenty-five quilts in one afternoon. Later on, with water colors, I filled in greens, blues, yellows, etc. It is a fascinating thing to do, even if a real quilt does not result. The Bird and Wreath Quilt (Plate D) I designed and made for a lovely bride and put into the designs my wishes for the young couple, based on the lore of the Pennsylvania Dutch country in which we live. It is entirely appliqued. Plate E. Shows the Tulip and Rose Quilt made for another daughter-inlaw. Since it is now three thousand miles from here, I can show only the detail of it, which I used for a bolster. Only two patterns were used, alternately, on the quilt. There are twenty-five eighteen-inch squares. It has a dust ruffle one yard deep with a continuous appliqued border of leaves and vine running around the entire bottom. Its fullness gives it a graceful swaying appearance. With all applique quilts, I make bolsters or pillowcases to match, and twice I have made matching tops for dressing tables. These, too, are quilted and fitted under a glass plate. "THE same patterns can be used in different positions, thus creating an entirely different quilt, for instance, the Dresden Plate design (1) made with twenty-four strips and a round center. By using one-quarter of the plate, and set-in corners, it becomes the Fan Pattern (II). The Star Pattern is one of the oldest known and is the basis for countless others. Beginning with a square, lines are drawn from corner to corner. 'I'wo more divide the block through the center, crosswise, and up and down. From that point on, anything can be done. _IIlustration (III) shows the star in its simpler form. The "Rising Sun" in Plate IV is an elaborate variation. Illustration V shows a "Sunflower" block with three pieced stars and a plain square of white muslin. The centers of the stars are appliqued over the piecing, and the stems and leaves appliqued on the white patch. Both are based on the star pattern. Illustration VI shows pieced tulips, using part of the star pattern with leaves and stems appliqued. PLATE E—TULIPS AND ROSE QUILT 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 (See The Relief Society Magazine, If there is a quilt in your future, March 1954, page 179, and FebI hope you will enjoy making it ruary 1955, page 105). From beginning to end. Come ee — eee ee — — —t eS Peewee wo weer vera megreserrr re" = "ee ' Highly Organized Dorothy Boys Kilian IM Windon patted the inside J pocket of his coat with happy anticipation as he strode up the front walk. By golly, he and Sally deserved this unexpected treat; the budget hadn't allowed many frills lately. Before he could get his key in the lock, young Mrs. Windon opened the door. Just looking at her, even after six months of marriage, Jim's heart melted like ice cubes in hot water. "Hi, lovely," he said tenderly, pulling her to him. As he bent to kiss her, though, he was stopped cold by that all-too-familiar look in her otherwise beautiful blue eyes. "Couldn't you possibly manage to get home sooner?'' Sally was asking reproachfully. "You know I always plan for six o'clock, and now the souffle's all sunk in the middle!" Jim groaned inwardly and then squared his jaw. "Let it sink," he said, with determined gaiety. "We can pick up a bite somewhere on the way to the theater." "Theater?" Sally echoed. "Honey, you may not realize it, but we're about to have ourselves an evening." Jim drew two tickets out of his coat pocket and waved them triumphantly in front of her. He felt his enthusiasm mounting again. "The boss had two complimentaries to the Playhouse for tonight, and when I stayed late to finish a report for him he slid them across the desk to me." "Oh, Jim, that would have been fun, but " Sally hesitated. "But what?" Jim braced himself. "Well, I'd planned for us to go down to the stores." Jim stared at her. "You mean to say,' he spluttered, "that you'd pass up an evening on the town just to go shopping?" "That's what we've often done on Friday nights,' Sally said defensively. "When we have the car to carry things home in, and all." "But it doesn't have to become an ironclad rule, does it," Jim retorted, "when something like this comes up?" "It is a shame," Sally agreed. "But to top it all, I've arranged with that appliance man on Green Street to give us a demonstration of his automatic washer. You know, that model we're interested in. I told him we'd be sure to stop in tonight." "He won't mind when you call and explain," Jim _ remonstrated.