[Vol42 | May 1955 | Sequence: 15 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Pickering]
See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and in the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Rachael L. Lee FRENCH MISSION, BRUSSELS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Front row, standing left to right: Rosa Denoyelle, President, Brussels Branch Relief Society; Diane Mattieu, Secretary; Victoria Alini,; Augusta Martin, Esther Migy; Colette Gregoire, accompanist. Back row, standing, left to right: Louise Hochstein, Second Counselor; Maria Benoit; Nicole Mertzenich; Gabrielle Williams; Ninie De Leenheer; Christiane de Leenheer; Virginia Gott, chorister; Monique Martin. Rachel L. Lee, President, French Mission Relief Society, reports on the Relief Society activities in her mission as follows: "I have been distributing the Magazine among members who read English, and no doubt all of our branches will see this picture. It will help them to realize that they are a part of a great organization where women all over the world are conducting the same activities and studying the same gospel lessons. We have been stressing this point this year, as it encourages the sisters in their tiny branches." Sister Lec also submits an informative letter from Sister Virginia Gott, chorister of the Brussels Branch Singing Mothers, an excerpt from which follows: "Unlike many Page 334: NOTES FROM THE FIELD 335 servicemen's wives, who are living in strange lands faced with the problem of strange customs and strange languages, I do not suffer the pangs of loneliness as they do, because I know that as soon as I establish contact with the local branch of the Church, I will be mingling with my own people. I will have a place where I will be at home, among real friends, irrespective of nation or language." Photograph submitted by Edna H. Bennion SPOKANE STAKE (WASHINGTON), FOURTH WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT "AN EVENING OF SONG," December 10, 1954 Group of carolers standing in the center, left to mght: Marianne Bardsley, stake organist; Dorothea Gessel; Loa Jaten; Alberta O'Brien; Weldon Bastian. Group of singers to left of carolers, front row, left to mght: Zelda Conrad, stake Work Director Counselor; Fern Fuller; Nedra Quinton; Mary Johnson; Dorothy Lindgren, ward chorister. Group of singers, second row, left to right: Leila Russon; Marlene Bastian; Melba Bastian, stake chorister. Group of singers, third row, left to right: Berniece Conrad, Spokane Fourth Ward Relief Society President; Joyce Barlow; Eva Orme. Group standing to the right of the carolers, front row, left to right: Naomi Rudd; Elna Whittle; Lois Barlow; Orla Pritchett. Second row: Laura Wagstaff, Secretary, Spokane Stake Relief Society; Nina Lowder; Virginia Erickson. Third row: Ruth McMullin; Ruth Collier, Work Director Counselor, Fourth Ward Relief Society; Aileen Hansen. Appropriate stage settings for this "Evening of Song" were designed and constructed by Sharlene Howell. The picture shows the Christmas Carol Medley, one of the num- -bers of the "Winter Wonderland" group of songs. Brother Weldon Bastian provided a violin obligato to this number. This group of Singing Mothers also furnished music for one session of the Spokane Stake Quarterly Conference, January 16th, 1955. Edna H. Bennion is former president of Spokane Stake Relief Society. The recently appointed president is Zelda S. Conrad. 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 Photograph submitted by Anna O. Smith MOUNT LOGAN STAKE (UTAH), ELEVENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Front row, left to nght, beginning fourth from the left: Victoria Hansen, organist; Fern Smith, pianist; Clistie B. Johnson, chorister; Emily Larsen President, Eleventh Ward Relief Society. 'The men standing at the back are members of the ward bishopric, left to right: Lowell Jenkins, First Counselor; Reed Bullen, Bishop; Preston Olson, Second Counselor. Anna O. Smith, President, Mount Logan Stake Relief Society, reports the activities of this enthusiastic group: "The chorus was organized in 1946 and has held rehearsals regularly and is invited to sing on many occasions. They sing in the ward fast meeting each month and receive a great deal of joy from such service. The chorus is a great asset to the ward and very much appreciated by the bishopric and ward members." Photograph submitted by Marie J. Monson BUTTE STAKE (MONTANA), DILLON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Front row, left to right: Ada Dieterle; Verla McCandles; Nora Lee Hilton; Dorothy Bergeson; Marie Taylor; Delma Ruegsegger; Etta Prather; Clara Payne; Lucille Swartz; Verla Boetticher, chorister. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 337 Back row, left to right: Kay Wolf, accompanist; Lillerth Jones; Bertha Ruegsegger; Arzula Peterson; Minnie Stocker; Anna Lu Smith; Lavina Smith; Winnie Johnson, Anna Taylor; Lola Koefoed. Marie J. Monson, President, Butte Stake Relief Society, reports that this group sings once a month for sacrament meeting, and for all special Relief Society programs. In the fall of 1954 they presented an entire skit for the bazaar. Ruth W. Packer is president of Dillon Ward Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Elizabeth H. Zimmerman WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION, UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, seated, left to right: Carma Paxman, Counselor, Maureen Jensen, Secretary; Verla Smith, Counselor. Standing at the back: Ruth Rice, President. Elizabeth H. Zimmerman, President, Western Canadian Mission Relief Society, reports the activities of this unusual organization: "The Relief Society at the Institute of Alberta was organized October 3, 1954, with a complete program. It is comprised of thirty-five members. Each month they have had a special activity to build up interest, members, and also to raise funds for their organization. In October a Thanksgiving breakfast was served to the Priesthood members participating in a clean-up day at the Institute. In November the Relief Society conference was held with the Singing Mothers furnishing the music. During the month of December they held a bazaar, and a Christmas dinner. Besides these activities, they also take care of the sacrament cloths and write to the institute missionaries once a month. 'These young ladies are quite enthused over their work and the progress which they have made. All are proud to be members of such a fine organization." 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 Le Photograph submitted by Mary E. Cutler GLENDALE STAKE (CALIFORNIA), GLENDALE EAST WARD "QUEENS FOR THE DAY" PROJECT Front row, left to right: Grace Spangenberg; Elizabeth Brower; Blanch Bell; Maud Callison; Margaret Farnsworth; Ethel Kearl; Mary E. Cutler, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society; Rozilla Grant; Edna Beal, President Glendale East Ward Relief Society. Second row, left to right: Bessie Hanson; LaPrel Haws; Etta Boggs; Clara Gough; Martha Hartley; Alice French; Shirley Jamison; Mary Tonkin; Elva Mowery; Cora Downs; Ruth Gough; Ethel Schroeder; Naomi Nielson; Lillian Canady. Sister Beal reports that two sisters were absent when this picture was taken: Clair Wing and Rose Kelly. "Sister Kelly is work counselor and is in charge of this activity of honoring a sister each work day. Through this, and other work meeting day projects, our attendance has doubled at our work meetings." Photograph submitted by Claire B. Jones CEDAR STAKE (UTAH), CEDAR SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING 'TEACHERS HONORED Tront row, seated, left to right: Margaret Uric; Mary Clark, a faithful visiting NOTES FROM THE FIELD 339 teacher, who has been on the quilting committee for thirty years; Mettie Matheson, who has served fifty years as a visiting teacher; Ursalia Stanworth; Rose Lunt, a visiting teacher for fifty years; Winifred Urie; Lucy Esplin. Back row, standing, left to nght: Carolyn Bullock; Ada Leigh; Lula Corry; Agnes Wood; Mary Mackleprang. All of the sisters in the photograph have served twenty-five years or more as visiting teachers. Claire B. Jones is president of Cedar Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Bernice Dyer WEST GERMAN MISSION, FRANKFURT (AMERICAN) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Seated on the floor, left to right: Renee Nelson; Johanna De St. Jour; Harriet Hart; Lyle Petersen. Second row, seated, left to right: Francis Pershing; Peggy Anderson, Second Counselor; Betty Jenks; Shirley Xanthus; Helen Wright, First Counselor; Alta Brossard, President. Third row, standing, left to right: Janet Berryessa, a visitor from Iran; Gayla Green, a visitor from Munich; Bernice Dyer, President, West German Mission Relief Society. As the groups (wives of servicemen) were organized last spring and summer (1954), they began the lessons at the beginning of the outlines. Sister Dyer reports that "By the first of October, nearly all were ready to begin the current lessons. Most of them hold meetings the year around, since they feel a definite need for that association. At the present time we have twelve such organizations in the West German Mission among the families of servicemen. In spite of the transient membership, they function efficiently and they are doing much good for the Latter-day Saint members who are here and also for many friends who have become interested." 340 ) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 Photograph submitted by Phyllis D. Smith TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, NORTH TEXAS DISTRICT, PLAINVIEW BRANCH BAZAAR, December 1954 Left to right: Lois Starks; Wanda Kalana, Second Counselor; Louise Montgomery, President; Nellie Miller, missionary; Nickolette Bell, Magazine representative; Randall Bell, child. Phyllis D. Smith, President, Texas-Louisiana Mission Relief Society, reports that this branch Relief Society was organized in September 1953. 'There are ten sisters enrolled. 'We are very proud of the accomplishments of this small Relief Society." On Washdays June B. Wunderlich I empty out each crumpled little pocket, Gather playworn treasures to a heap For growing hands to sort, before noon sleep Subdues activity. A tarnished locket Without catch or chain, a fragile paper rocket Battered by missions to the moon; down deep A broken, withered wishbone, serving to keep Expectant eyes aglow—so runs the docket. Once more I pray my wish—oh, help me fill The secret pockets hidden in the seams Of childhood, with shining, all-enduring dreams, With memories to launch an earthdrawn will To the stars—as wealth in trust for hands full grown To coin, when searching back in need, alone.: Flerbs for Mlodern Cookery Chives Elizabeth Williamson HIVES (Allium = schoenoprasum) are native to Northern Europe and North America, a perennial belonging to the onion family. This attractive plant, with lavender blooms and dark green leaves, grows to the height of eight or ten inches. It is easy to grow and seems to like most any soil. 'The bulb-like clusters at the root can be separated in the spring or fall. Each bulb will make a plant, but it is better to divide each clump into three or four parts for assuring a healthier plant. Potted chives can be grown all winter indoors, and they make a pretty addition to the kitchen window. The mild onion flavor is popular with many people who find that onions cause digestive disturbances. Chopped chives may be added to: stuffed eggs, cottage cheese, cream cheese, salads, mashed potatoes, tomato juice, and omelettes. Seer! Whasic Dey D xx P art dls Osseretges. Blow, Bugle. Blow—NeidlingerMadsen oii 222s eeeeeceeceeecceeeceeeeeeenenes 18 — God Shall Wipe Away All Tears— ROM.. Oooo oo eenccneceecccececeeeececccecsececeeeeeees 16 - Hold Thou My Hand—Briggs 20 I If Christ Came Back—O'Hara.20 a I Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara 22. Ccceeeceeeeeee 22 i Let the Mountains Shout For Joy— Stephens LL a5 a Lord's Prayer—Gates.20. A. My Soul Is Athirst For God—Stickles.20 ~ Out of the Depths—Todd.20 = Praise Ye the Father—Gounod.10 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank I I DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY! 45-47 South Main I Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above.