[Vol42 | May 1955 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Cement]
Cement Chimney Blocks as Planting Boxes Willard Luce "iat planting boxes can be made from cement chimney blocks. These blocks are 18 by 18 inches, 7% inches high, and have a hole through them 9 inches square. You can place them in the dirt of the planting area surrounding the terrace, allowing them to stick up about an inch and a half above the terrace. Or they can be placed directly on the terrace and filled with soil. When the latter method is used, the plants in them must be watered often, as the blocks become quite hot and pull the water from the soil. The blocks can be used with their natural cement color, or they can be painted bright colors which will contrast with the surrounding garden and terrace. About twenty-five per cent of the cost of the blocks can be saved by buying seconds. 'These are not suitable for chimneys, but will usually work perfectly as planting boxes. Page 342 ' Suddenly Butterf tes Lael W. Hill Suddenly white butterflies blossom over the half-blind garden, And frost will not be thought of again till October—or September; It is the green time... Already summer forever As the white butterflies and the wakening bees remember. It is summer already, whose young leaves will span every tomorrow; Wind is sun-warm... There was never a winter to think of.... Together With gold bees finding their always opening flowers, The sudden white butterflies blossom to honeying weather. —-< Sather $ Garden Bernice T. Clayton A precious bit of paradise Was father's garden. In his eyes It was a place for children's play, Where flowers bloomed to give away; The place where he could best express His love of home, his happiness. A quiet man, he spoke in deeds And flowers grown from precious seeds; His choicest blossoms for the wife He loved and cherished all through life. Just one extravagance he had— That lovely garden of my Dad. One day he went to buy some clothes He long had needed, but he chose To order Holland bulbs, and then He wore his shabby suit again. How could we know that every spring The suit he didn't buy would bring A wealth of memories instead Of just a gorgeous tulip bed? THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable I Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ~ All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People ' 70 S.