Members of General Board Take Advantage of Summer Courses
There is a growing tendency among American women to be alert to opportunities that will make for greater efficiency in any line of work in which they may be interested. Alertness among the members of the General Board has found expression this summer in various ways. Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, director of adult education at the Civic Center of Salt Lake City, has been attending the summer session of the University of California, where she has been interested in two courses of study; one is the history and development of adult education in Europe and America, given by Dr. Overstreet; the other, a course in child welfare under the direction of Dr. Stoltz. Adult education is coming to be most significant. Without doubt, there is with many people, a realization of the fact that it "availeth little" for the few to have knowledge unless that knowledge may be shared by the masses. For this reason leaders plan and devise work in which all may be partakers; so that, when the command is issued to advance, all are ready to proceed.
Other members of the General Board who have been taking
EDITORIAL 477
advantage of an opportunity to study, are Mrs. Emma Empey, Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, and Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. They have been attending a rather early morning class in Social Hygiene at the University of Utah, conducted by Dr. Edith Hale Swift. This course is given under the direction of educational measures of the American Social Hygiene Association. Whoever is keeping up with the march of civilization must realize that a change is taking place in the attitude of the public towards sex hygiene. Many feel that the old way of hushing up everything in relation to sex development and sex life is injurious; that silence on this subject tends to debase rather than ennoble and exalt a phase of life that should be squarely and nobly met without embarrassment. That there is something to learn in relation to this phase of our existence is perhaps rather obvious. Just what it would be well to impart to others, and just what modification of past practice should be entered into, is what constitutes the problem. In the meantime it is gratifying to know we are advancing.