Sarah Elizabeth Carmichael Williamson
By Ellen L. Jakeman
Utah's Pioneer Poetess, better known to her contemporaries as Lizzie Carmichael, was born of humble parents at Setauket, Long Island, in 1838. Her parents joined the Mormon Church, and she was brought across the plains at an early age to Salt Lake Valley, where her parents resided to the day of their death. Books were scarce and educational opportunities of the crudest, but she absorbed a wonderful amount of learning, when her opportunities are considered, and her gleanings grew and multiplied like planted grain. She had access to that masterpiece of all the ages, the Bible. Of a pure and religious turn of mind, the influence of this great work is manifest in and through all her poems. Never has a poet combined nobler purity of thought and language with greater variety of subjects. Her study of the Bible gave to her writings its own direct and
SARAH E. CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON 479
graphic language, while it deepened the natural religious fervor of her mind. Her spirit was tense-strung and fine, her nerves a-tremble with emotion, and her blood strained very thin through too many sieves of the same tissue. There is no doubt in the minds of the pioneers who knew her, or of a later generation who are so fortunate as to be familiar with her poems, especially writers and lovers of literature, that had she retained the brilliant mind of her youth, she would have inevitably taken her place as a queen in the highest ranks of poetry and song. As it was, her career, brief and bright, spread her fame far beyond the confines of Utah. Her artistic temperament found little in the necessarily rude frontier life to feed the hunger of her soul for the beautiful, though in castellated rocks and deep-cut canyons of our rugged Wasatch hills she saw all the grandeur that are theirs.
MOON-RISE ON THE WASATCH
The stars seemed far, yet darkness was not deep; Like baby eyes, the rays yet strove with sleep; The giant hills stood in the distance proud, On each white brow a dusty fold of cloud; Some coldly gray, some of an amber hue, Some with dark purple fading into blue; And one that blushed with faint crimson jet? A sunset memory, tinged with cloud regret.
Close to my feet the soft leaf shadows stirred; I listened vainly, for they moved unheard? Trembled unconsciously; the languid air Crept to the rose's lip and perished there.
It was an hour of such repose as steals Into the heart when it most deeply feels; When feeling covers every shred of speech With one emotion language cannot reach.
And Nature held her breath and waited there, An awed enthusiast at the shrine of prayer; Like a pale devotee, whose reverent lips Stifle the breath that burns her finger-tips.
The crimson-tinted cloud paled, with a start, As though new hope chased memory from her heart; A gleam of whiteness stirred the vapor pale, As beauty's finger moved a bridal veil; A fleecy mass, wide-fringed with silver light, Drooped on the summit of the proudest height; Then, floating northward, swept in folds of grace From the white beauty of the moon's meek face.


How still, how pure, that chastened lustre bowed Its glance of radiance from its veil of cloud! How meek the loveliness, how kind the power, Whose arm of purity embraced the hour! How beautiful the misty robe that trailed O'er bloom that brightened, over stars that paled? Though its white fold caught in a dusky cave, Or swept its fingers o'er a gleaming wave, Piled on the sward a moss of woven gems, Or dragged to tatters through the forest stems.
A wave of beauty, only too complete, Surged o'er my head and widened at my feet; The skies seemed bowing with their wealth of light, Yet earth sprang heavenward, 'twas so more than bright: My heart found no expression?sought for none; Why analyze the bliss it fed upon? All its sensations blended into one? Solemn, yet shadowless?most glad, yet deep; I could not smile, yet had no wish to weep.
My restless thoughts seemed into one compressed; The eloquence of all things seemed possessed, Yet no expression: narrowed to my breast; My soul seemed to expand, my heart to melt, Blending with all that could be reached or felt. I had no wish unsatisfied, because My mind's volition felt superior laws. It seemed a ripple moved upon a tide, Whose heaving billows bade me onward glide; A breath born upward by a tempest weight? A trifling circumstance controlled by fate; Something of little worth when moved apart? One trembling fiber in Creation's heart.
Because so few spoke her language or comprehended her flights of intense feeling, she grew up shy and reticent. She wrote many small poems in her early years that were never offered for publication, but were treasured in manuscript by those whom she loved, and may be irretrievably lost. When, in her seventeenth year, she began publishing, few could believe that the poems she offered to the local newspapers were from her own pen. They were of such a lofty nature, direct and clear-cut in thought, trailing blossoms of speech and crusted with jeweled words. No one will ever know just what was said when she presented that bit of dramatic perfection: "Lucretia Borgia's Feast" to a local editor. He rejected it on the score of disbelief in her authorship. Humiliated and shamed, the poor child went to a friend, a high Church official and wept out her story. His
SARAH E. CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON 481
gifted mind and soul could meet hers on its own ground. He told her that he knew the work was hers, and that her rare genius was the gift of God; that while it might bring her much suffering, it would be a source of exquisite delight; that she should never lose it so long as she used it worthily. He went with her to the man who had rejected it, vouched for her and her work, and the poem was published as it appears here. When Edward W. Tullidge wished to publish a sketch of this wonderful woman in the "Western Galaxy,' no copy of "Lucretia Borgia's Feast" could be found; as it was not included in the twenty-six poems that make the sum total of a slender little volume printed by her friends, but was supplied by the author of this article from memory. LUCRETIA BORGIA'S FEAST Beauty had gathered, to grace the board Where the ruby wave of the wine was poured; There were clasps of brilliants and bands of bloom, Warmth, and lustre, and rich perfume; Passionate music, low-toned and sweet, Or abrupt and quick as a heart's thrilled beat, Or proudly sad, as the voice of song When the chord it touches is deep and strong. The gay, the gifted, the bright, the fair, Of Italy's nobles had gathered there; But the comeliest form of that baccahanal band. With the darkest eye, and the snowiest hand, Who stood by the lord of the highest rank And tasted the wine ere the noble drank, Was the delicate page, whose lip's proud curve Seemed scarcely fitted to sue or serve. Wine! Wine! It flowed in a crimson stream Through the crystal cups, till its ruby gleam Shadowed a blush on the soft white hand That raised the glass from the marble stand. The hours speed on, and the music's tone Speaks of the bright and the gay alone? When sudden it ceases. A voice is heard As clear as the notes of a forest bird; The form of the singer they do not see, And it seemed to them like a melody Living and speaking without control, A beating heart and a breathing soul. They pause to listen; that careless throng Hark to the words of that strange, wild song: 
 Life, beautiful life! Warm in the heart. Why should ever a sorrow come where thou art? What can we gain by a struggle with fate, More than this hour will give? We squander life's blossoms, and learn too late, '*Tis a beautiful thing to live! Life, beautiful life! Pluck we thy flowers!. Whate'er the coming moments bring, this is ours. Then taste life's wine with a lip as bright? Take what the hour doth give! Hold only one thought in your hearts tonight? Tis a beautiful thing to live. The laugh rang out when the song was stilled, And the golden flagons were drained and filled; But a light stole into the boy's dark eye. He kissed the cups as he bore them by, And his hand swept softly the harp's bright strings. "My Lord," hath spoken?the page shall sing: Life is lovely! Life is glorious! When its aim is high. Every breath should lift us nearer, Nearer to the sky But the life that's nobly given To a purpose deep and high, Wears a laurel braid in heaven. 'Tis a glorious thing to die. Life is lovely! Life is glorious! Every quivering breath, Every action, though victorious, Brings us nearer death. But when duties are completed, Each before its hour goes by, Death's last pang is thus defeated, 'Tis a glorious thing to die. With a quick, fierce peal and an angry clang Again the notes of the music rang, Abrupt and wild from the hidden band, While the chords yet thrilled to the boy's fair hand. The golden flagons once more they fill, Their lips are burning, their hands are chill; And they shuddering heard through the music's swell, The boy's hoarse whisper: "I am not well." Now loud and savage, then sad and low, From a sneering laugh, to a tone of woe The music speaks. Now 'tis loud and strong, But louder and fiercer that voice of song: SARAH E, CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON Ye die unshriven before the morn, Die unforgiven, the mock of scorn. The ear of my vengeance shall drink your last sigh, And the lip of my triumph shall laugh in reply. One thread unbroken, one feverish breath? Your sentence is spoken: Your doom is death! They started up with a fearful cry, With a deep, wild terror doth eye meet eye. Jesu! Marie! What a fearful thought On faint, swift wings to their senses brought! They spurn the wine with a fenzied ire? Their hands are ice, and their lips are fire. There's a mantle of blackness above them spread, They hear the chant for the dying and dead; They see priests moving; wan tapers gleam; But each life-pulse stands like a frozen stream; And they gaze with a stupor of brain and heart As the gorgeous curtains are torn apart, And a form in velvet of sable dye, With the forehead bound with a jeweled tie, Stood looking upon them with eyes severe, And they shuddering whisper: "Lucretia's here!" The page seems fainting, but tries to stand, And eagerly stretches a small fair hand, And murmurs a name that she does not hear, Or scorned to note if it reached her ear. "You have paid me well, you are mine, all mine, You have sold your lives for a draught of wine. Was it sweet? You drank with a gracious gust. Good night. You will slumber in peace I trust. But before we part, taste again the wine. Your pledges were honored. Revenge is mine!" The page reels forward?the woman turns? What an awful light in her dark eyes burns. "Urban!" she shrieks, with a sickening fear, "Prince of the Borgies, how came your here?" "I called you Mother;" he turned away, And strove to steady his white lips' play; "I called you Mother?let that name be Forever cancelled and lost to thee! You ask me, woman, what brought me here; Listen, I'll tell you?nay, come not near? I came not knowing the way I trod, To tell you that Vengeance belongs to God. 483 
 Be this my curse?it is dire and fell:? May thy heart's fierce passions become thy hell, Till thou'lt shuddering shrink from its savage tone, And fear to dwell with thyself alone!" "Curse not thy Mother!" "Fiend! Woman! Hush! The name of 'Mother' should make thee blush. I have no mother, and thou no son? Seeker for vengeance, thy work is done!" Then he sank to his knees, and she strove to speak, But he spurned her back with an effort weak. She clasped his form?it was icy mold That shrank from her when his heart was cold. That Sarah Elizabeth Carmichael touched and vibrated all the chords of the human heart, is found in the fact that first and last almost every one of her major poems have been denominated her masterpiece; that they were for all time?human? in that they still speak to the deepest emotions of those who read them, and with a clear, familiar voice. The question of authorship settled, poem after poem followed in quick succession through her seventeenth and eighteenth years. Her patriotic poems were widely copied in the Eastern press, often without credit. Notable among them is: "President Lincoln's Funeral,' too long for reproduction here, as also: "Ashes to Ashes." Here are two poems that touched a nation's heart at the close of the Civil War, and are just as searching and applicable to our own time and recent World War. DEAD Weep for the dead! Not those who gave The dust that fills a patriot's grave; Not for the true arm still and cold; Not for the breast that the grasses fold; Not for the bright form under the mold; Not for the heart that bled. But weep, O weep for the coward vain! Dead, for it had no pulse to drain; Dead, for it could not feel a pain; Dead to the core?dead! Dead as a soulless sentence spoke; Dead as a useless promise broke; Dead as a sightless eye awoke: Dead! SARAH E, CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON Weep for the dead! Not those who went Home by the hand of a foeman sent; Not for the smile we see no more; Not those interred on an alien shore; Not for the life whose pain is o'er; Not for the spirit fled. Yet weep for the bosom numb and still! Dead, for it felt not patriot thrill; Dead for it had no life to spill; Dead to the core?dead! Dead as the hate of an idiot's glance; Dead as the steel of a broken lance; Dead as a last neglected chance; Dead! Weep for the dead. Not those who claim Immortal life on the scroll of fame; Not for the soul who feared but shame; Not for the life that reached its aim, Not for the step that marked in flame Print of a hero's tread. Weep for the dead that breathe and speak! Dead with a life-bloom on the cheek; Dead, for they have no aim to seek; Dead to the core?dead! Dead as the use of a wasted hour; Dead as the dew of a poisoned flower; Dead as a soul's crime-palsied power: Dead! AMPUTATED Good-bye, right arm! 'Tis hard to part With one so true and tried; One that so long hath served my heart, And waited at my side: Thy work is done?thy pain is o'er; When tear drops dim mine eye, Thy hand will dash them forth no more? Good-bye, right arm?good-bye! God-bye, right arm! On battlefield Thy strength hath served me well, And thou hast been my bosom's shield, Where blows like raindrops fell; But never more amid the strife Thou wilt be lifted high; Thy last blow saved this heart its life? Good-bye, right arm?good-bye! 
 Good-bye, right arm! No more thou'lt start, Eager to greet my friend; But this poor one that's near my heart No colder clasp will lend. And should my country ever need A guard so maimed as I, It would be just as proud to bleed? Good-bye, right arm?good-bye! Good-bye, right arm! I should not grieve, For thou hast done thy part; Yet I can scarcely bear to leave Thee, senseless as thou art: My poor, scarred hand! I hold thee near To lips that trembling sigh, And gem thee once more with a tear? Good-bye, right arm?good-bye! Thus the fame of "Our Lizzie," as she was affectionately called, spread abroad. She received the homage of all scholarly people and of many who did not flatter themselves with such a title; but it is as well established as such a thing can be after this lapse of time, that she was never paid anything for her articles. Even her "Stolen Sunbeam" considered one of the finest poetical conceits ever penned, was a gratuitous contribution to literature. This poem was selected by Bryant for his great collection, "A Library of Poetry and Song." He took the liberty of retitling it "The Origin of Gold," but here we give it the author's original naming. THE STOLEN SUNBEAM There's a light that burns with a quenchless glow, In the wide, deep caverns of earth below; Like the fire that lives on the Parsee's shrine In the amber torch of the lighted mine. Burning forever, steadily bright; Proud and passionless, still and fair; Burning forever without a glare; Burning forever so still and deep; A quenchless flame in a dreamless sleep; And time's broad ocean may roll its waves While space hath room for the centuries' graves, It hath no billows to dim the shine Of the wizard faggot that lights the mine. Beware! Beware of a starless beam! The nightmare spell of a miser's dream! Emotionless ever, its subtle art Tugs at the strings of the world's strong heart. The stars of the earth at its bidding stoop; Awed by its menace, life roses droop; And the fairest blossoms that earth can twine, Fade near the taper that lights the mine. SARAH E, CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON 487 ' The Fallen looked on the world, and sneered: "I guess," he muttered, "why God is feared; For eyes of mortals are fain to shun The midnight heaven that hath no sun. I will stand on the heights of the hills and wait Where the day goes down at the western gate, And, reaching up to its crown, will tear From its plumes of glory the brightest there; With the stolen ray I will light the sod, And turn the eyes of the world from God." He stood on the height when the sun went down? He tore one plume from the day's bright crown. The proud orb stooped till he touched its brow. And the marks of that touch are on it now, And the flush of its anger forevermore Burns red when it passes the western door! The severed plume, above him whirled, In flames of torture around him curled, And he dashed it down from the snowy height In broken masses of quivering light. Ah! More than terrible was the shock Where the burning splinters struck wave and rock; The green earth shuddered, and shrank, and paled, The waves sprang up and the mountains quailed: Look on the hills?let the scars they bear Measure the pain of that hour's despair. The Fallen watched while the whirlwind fanned The pulsing splinters that plowed the sand; Sullen he watched, while the hissing waves Bore them away to the ocean caves; Sullen he watched, while the shining rills Throbbed through the hearts of the rocky hills; Loudly he laughed: "Is the world not mine? Proudly the links of its chain shall shine; Lighted with gems shall its dungeons be? But the pride of its beauty shall kneel to me!" That splintered light in the earth grew cold, And the diction of mortals hath called it "Gold." Many of her contemporaneous admirers consider Lake Tahoe her finest production. When this was written not a great many people had seen that beautiful sheet of water?a lake crystal clear, situated on the summit of the Sierra-Nevada Mountains, which separate Nevada from California. Tourist travel has given its beauty to thousands, who have felt the charm they could not express. It is one of the spots she visited as a bride. LAKE TAHOE Lake Tahoe, sweetest lake of lakes! The vision of thy beauty breaks With startling power upon the eye! A sheen of water gleaming high Above the tall, dark-pointed pines; Apparently thy wave inclines Toward the sun, who pauses there 
 To dress his long, bright amber hair. And many a loose, thick, shining tress,: Twines round thee in a warm caress; Nor does thy bosom's picture slight His most impassioned glance of light; The day whose smile thy mirror takes, Hath named thee sweetest lake of lakes. Lake Tahoe, sweetest lake of lakes! The crescent moon oft overtakes And tramples on the soft white feet Of day, unwilling to retreat From the deep tide that charms its sense By a heart worship so intense. Oh, gem-pale amethyst that shines, Clasping the leafy crown that twines 'The proud Sierra's cold, pure brow? Shine on, forever, fair as now! Glow, many tinted water, glow! There is no brighter wave below? The Night, that mournfully forsakes, Hath named thee sweetest lake of lakes. Lake Tahoe, sweetest lake of lakes! A sense of awe profound awakes Within the heart that lingers where Thy tranquil bosom slumbers fair, Like a bright tear of pitying love, Wept warm from heaven that leans above. Sarah E. Carmichael presents such a bewildering array of beautiful poems, and such soul-searching, emotional themes that it is indeed hard to choose among them. "Allie's Baby Prayer" has been printed, anonymously printed, many times; but it shall see the light now in its proper setting, and be duly credited to its gifted author. ALLIE'S PRAYER We listened?'twas a little foot, Placed lightly on the stairs; "What is it, darling? "I forgot? Forgot to say my prayers." The mother took the little hand, And kissed the meek, low brow. And watched the tiny, white-robed form, Close down beside her brow. Ah! Pride-chilled hearts were beating near, World-darkened eyes were there; But every head was bowed to hear Sweet Allie's baby prayer. And I have knelt where holy words By earnest lips were spoke; Have felt the burning gush of thought Their eloquence awoke; SARAH E, CARMICHAEL WILLIAMSON 489 Have listened when the pleader's voice Sank quivering to a sigh, And I have bowed my head and thought *Twere beautiful to die; But never have I seen the awe Whose robes were folded there? Whose stainless fingers wove the threads Of Allie's baby prayer. It went away?that little foot? As lightly as it came, The sweet lips spoke a low "Good night," And syllabled a name; The light reflected from her hair Shone through the open door; We caught a glimpse of that white robe The angel pleader wore. Then eye met eye, and souls bowed down In deep contrition there; Stern hearts were melted by the breath Of Allie's baby prayer. Among those who read her poetry and appreciated her glorious gift was Dr. J. M. Williamson, a young army surgeon stationed at Camp Douglas, under Gen. P. E. Connor. Mr. Williamson's culture and refinement, chivalry and deference, was a balm to her soul. Their romantic courtship in 1866 was followed by marriage in 1867. Because of her terrible inheritance, the marriage was the cause of much apprehension and adverse criticism by the best of friends of both parties; but it is claimed that their union was ideal for the brief period that was theirs before the crowning disaster took them. Because she was so universally beloved by all who have had occasion to write of her and her sublime genius, not one has given a name to the surety of the doom that hung over the golden singer of the Wasatch. They are to be commended for their delicacy, but now after nearly a hundred years, and not one soul left to be wounded by it, the truth may do good and no harm. Sarah Elizabeth Carmichael was the victim of an unwise marriage. The daughter of double cousins; one of a family of seven, she and one sister were all who survived infancy. The sister, like those who died, was below normal in intelligence. Her parents were disturbed by the genius of their gifted daughter, and absolutely unable to comprehend her. Much of her writing is tinged with sadness, that will be better understood when the reader. Knows of the dark cloud that hovered over this sinless young girl; and be able to appreciate the passages that seem personal and prophetic. 
 That Dr. Williamson was disgusted by the calm appropriation of her labors without remuneration is a reasonable conjecture. He it was who wished her to do herself justice in literature with a price, induced her to begin the writing of a book, historical and biographical in character, of the Mormon people and prominent members. 'There is no hint that it was to be sensational or antagonistic in character; but she did not even complete the first chapter, becoming insane about a year after her marriage. Under this terrible calamity Dr. 'Williamson proved himself one of the honorable of the earth. He gave up all ambition for himself to care for this woman whom he so tenderly loved; exhausting all the scientific lore obtainable to bring back reason to the fragile body it had inhabited. The delicate thing that had fled seemed ever hovering near. Indeed one writer hints that there were lucid intervals and during those hours she wrote other poems, but if so there is no vestige of proof. Broken hearted, Dr. Williamson died in 1882, leaving his considerable property to his wife, with J. R. Walker and Boyd Park as sole executives. The frail young wife was scarcely conscious of her loss. Her parents were dead, Mr. Walker died, her sister died, and Boyd Park waxed old. Nowhere in the documents I have been permitted to examine is it spoken of, but at some time she was committed to the asylum at Provo, with special privileges and personal attendants. I saw her there in the nineties, a slender figure in a close. Fitting black dress, with a white crepe. Shawl over her shoulders, at Sabbath services?with them, but not of them. When the end was near, she was brought to her old home on State Street, Salt Lake City, to die, and was buried in the old Salt Lake Cemetery. Seven years after her death, Alfred Lambourne published an article in the Deseret News, from which we make a brief excerpt: In an apparently unvisited grave in one of the upper avenues of our City Cemetery, a grave overrun with rank grasses and weeds, and over which the head-board?the name upon it hardly decipherable and already sloping to its fall?lies the body of Sarah Elizabeth Carmichael Williamson. That neglected spot, however, is hallowed in being the resting place of a sweet woman and a true poet. We yield reluctant justice to the dead, And light the torch of fame when life hath fled. There can be but one thought of solace for the wasted life of the loved, envied, and admired child of genius?there is a plan of progress and achievement beyond this world which will provide recognition for all she has missed or suffered in the clouded pathways of the world. (Copyright applied for; all rights reserved)