The Russell Sisters By Annie Wells Cannon Among the contributors to the Woman's Exponent were two young women of rather unusual literary attainments, Sarah E. And Isabel M. Russell. Schooled only in the crude educational institutions of pioneer days, these two sisters evidenced a keen sense of culture and possessed the rare gift of poetry. They came of a family widely known for its artistic and literary achievements. And, true to their heritage, did not conceal the light within. In files of old magazines and newspapers one often finds many gems of thought published over some fanciful name; the author is never known because either from modesty or fear of criticism the real name is concealed. Like many such, these two young women when they began to write for publication concealed their identity by the use of the pseudonyms "Hope" and "Millicent" respectively. Both have now passed to the great beyond, Sarah some years since, and Isabel, lovingly known as Aunt Belle, only a few months ago. It was the fact of her passing that called to mind some incidents in the lives of these two sisters and the family of which they were a part that prompted the writing of this article., The experiences of the Russell family are much the same as those of other pioneers who braved the long journey from comfortable eastern homes to the desert valleys of the West. The marks of toil, privation and hardship only intensified their faith and fidelity, and never caused them to lose the sweet refinement and spirit of that earlier part of their life when their surroundings were more comfortable. The Russells were among the first families in Canada to give a refuge and a sympathetic hearing to Parley P. Pratt when he went there with his message of the restoration of the gospel. Isaac Russell and his wife Mary Walton Russell made great sacrifices for their faith. They owned a large tract of land and other property. And had many comforts and advantages, all of which they laid on the altar to help build up the Church; and when they journeyed valley of the Great Salt Lake, they came as other poor emigrants, sharing' all with the Saints. Isaac Russell was one of the elders who in company with Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball introduced the gospel in Great Britain. When he left his wife in Ohio to go on that mission he sold his flute to buy her some meal and left her there almost penniless. The*mother, Mary Walton, had wealthy relations in England who, when she became a widow and was left with six children, offered her and her children a 
 home and support. But to accept this offer meant to renounce her faith, and this she could not consider. So she struggled on, finally reaching the valley in the goodly company of her chosen people. The courage of the mother is exemplified in the daughters, who not only shared with her all the trials of pioneer life but ventured even farther into unknown lands and helped to colonize in Arizona and Mexico. Here these loyal women toiled to make homes and give happiness to many in the communities where they lived, exercising all their talents and energies as only helpful, unselfish women can under the stress of straitened circumstances. Isabel became the wife of B. F. Johnson with whom she went to Arizona in 1882. Here she taught music and worked at the tailoring trade until 1889, when the family moved to old Mexico locating at Colonia Juarez. Later they moved to the picturesque valley of Chuichupe in the tops of the Sierra Madre Mountains. Here Aunt Belle served as the president of the Relief Society until the exodus of the Latter-day Saints from the Mexican colonies. All that the family had struggled and worked for over twenty years was left behind; and she never quite ceased to regret the home in the mountains, for she was an ardent lover of nature and here, with her little family, though shut out from the luxuries and attractions of the world, she had created an atmosphere of harmonious living and contentment. Isabel Johnson wrote her first poem while at their home in Missouri when only a girl of sixteen, and throughout the long years she found solace in expressions of poetic thought. One tribute among many paid this good woman at the time of her funeral most beautifully expresses her worth. A friend and neighbor said: "As far back as I can remember Mesa, I remember Aunt Belle coming from the ranch to give music lessons. I remember the cheerfulness with which she went about her work. She was a very deep student and philosopher and improved upon the qualities she had. She was so enriched in soul that everything in nature appealed to her. She took advantage of all things that would add to her knowledge and spirituality. She raised a noble family and was always valiant in pioneer life. With implicit faith and trust in her God that was beautiful, she went on her journey unflinchingly, until at the ripe age of 85 she went back to her God, pure, sweet, and virtuous; and her influence will never die with those who knew her." Two poems culled from the columns of the Woman's Exponent?''Patchwork" by "Hope" (Sarah E. Russell) and 'Three Evening Shadows" by "Millicent" (Isabel Russell Johnson)?are here given. THE RUSSELL SISTERS 493 Patchwork Tis not genteel, they tell me now, To make a patchwork quilt, 'Tis sign of poverty they vow And poverty is guilt In worldly eyes?well let it be, But you and I should clearer see, I think it is a branch of art That forms a good, important part In home economy and joy, And pleasant hours without alloy, May thus be spent in social chat, While fingers fly this way and that Forming designs of light and shade Until a perfect piece is made; And then the quilting, oh how nice! To meet in friendship and rejoice, When work is done the circle spreads Mingling the white and golden heads Of father, mother, sister, brother? (If not your own, why then, some other) In pleasant play or may-be dance While jest and song the hours enhance; From many a patchwork quilt I trace Some well known name, some dear, dear face, And from one star will spring anew, Some time of love and friendship true, Our parents loved these simple joys, Shall we forget?their girls and boys, And in the new scenes scorn the old? Ah no! There lies the purest gold, And is not life all patchwork too Our thoughts and actions, false or true, Pieces that go to form the whole Great plan divine the Gods control; Then be our station high or low Lets cut and fit the pieces so That perfect shape and colors blend, Praying that One above to lend His wisdom where our own would fail Courage when our weak hearts would quail, Then may our life work be replete In all things perfect and complete. ?Hope (Sarah E. Russell). 
 Three Evening Shadows Creeping down, creeping down, Shadows with a golden crown; Shadows in the valley lying Gold upon the mountains dying; Creeping down, gently down Shadows gray with golden crown. 'Tis thus the shades of evening fall In youth; when Trustfulness o'er all A tender beauty throws; Holding without its trembling veil Dark hours that droop with sorrow pale With tears, vain hopes and woes. Falling down, falling down, Shadows with a sable crown; Shadows on the heart and valley, Clouds on the hills, in blackness rally, Falling down, dimly down, Shadows deep, with death dark crown. Thus when the veil is rent apart, And troubles gather round the heart, And the pale hours press on; Each with its weary weight of pain Till doubt and anguish cloud the brain, - And trust and peace are gone. Falling down, gently down, Shadows with a snowy crown Trembling hands are weaving now, Flowers pale for painless brow Shadows 'round death's solemn bier Rest to the heart so troubled here. Thus when the ills of life. Are past, And that far shore is won at last, Where shadows never fall; And many are the eyes that weep, Watching across life's stormy deep, Waiting the angel's call. ?Millicent (Isabel R. Johnson).