Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1899 "For tHE Ricurs or THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RiGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS" RELIEF SOCIETY IN OMAHA, NEBRASKA: | Sister Jane S. Richards expressed her joy and satisfaction in being present.. Referred to the time when the society was organized with but a few members, in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Then they endured many hardships... Subsequently finding a peaceful home in the valleys of the mountains where the society was reorganized by President Brigham Young and has spread and grown until now a society is found in almost every branch and ward of the Church, numbering in all about thirty thousand. Sister Richards said Sister Zina D. Tf. Young who now presides over the society in all the world, would be pleased to hear of an organization in Omaha. Ay 'L. Hatch SARAH] E. CARMICHAEL: As lofty mountains whose crests ever glisten with eternal snow and hear strange and weird music... So with the poet who hears music in the floating wind whispers in the forest; to whom the sea tells its wonderful secrets, seeing glory in the sunsct, feeling peace in the moonlight, and intuitively understanding the melody of birds. Such a beautiful mind was Sarah E. Carmichael's... To her inspired soul the Bible was an open book.... She need not to go to Switzerland to see the majesty of God displayed in her wondrous snowclad mountains, her wild scencry, her ravishing sunsets. —Lydia D. Alder WORDS THAT BLESS. The world of hope in which you live, The words of comfort you often give, The kindly letters your hand has penned To son or brother or distant friend, Not only brighten the jeweled crown Which you in heaven will wear, But help to swell the throng who hope To meet and love you there. —Alofa HOME OWNERSITP: Homes of their cwn for the common people was the sentiment Brigham Young tried to inculcate and practically to demonstrate in these mountain vales during the period of early settlement here. Who does not know that the home is the center from which springs the best in life and in government?... The home which is our own is the ideal one, the children enshrine it in their memory.... —FEditorial GRADUATION EXERCISES FOR A NURSES' CLASS: The nurses' class taught by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts... For the last six months or more, held its graduating exercises on 'Tuesday, December 20th.... Dr. Roberts gave the instructions free in the interest and under the auspices of he Relief Society.... The members of the class acquitted themselves admirably, and the Dr. Herself read a very able and highly constructive paper. Counselor Annie T. Hyde on behalf of the Stake Board presented to Dr. Roberts in a neat and happy speech a handsome rocking chair in appreciation of her labors... And the class presented a silver cake dish filled with lovely flowers. —News Note Page 30 EST Germany has encouraged women (whose civil rights and opportunities were drastically curtailed during the war) to develop themselves to the highest degree possible. Many now fill top positions in the fields of law, medicine, education, journalism, industry, and the arts. In May and June of 1958 the Government acted as host to ten outstanding women _ from America, selected and invited by the German Parliament. They represented a wide cross section of American women's achievement. A mutually beneficial exchange of ideas and national understanding and friendship resulted. GALLY CARRIGHAR'S exciting travel book "Moonlight at Midday (Knopf, New York), describes Alaska as a land of "enormous invitation," where the native people are the world's supreme example of co-operation and skill in mastering a difficult environment. Many thoughtful suggestions are offered for helping the Eskimos through a time of transition as they adjust to the ways of the Forty-ninth State. Miss MARGARET L. COIT is the author of Mr. Baruch, chosen by the National Council of Women as its Book of the Year for 1958. The author gave almost six years of work to this 784-page volume, fellowships from Brown Uni