[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Poem | Title: Summers Past| Author: Gertrude T. Koven]
o/n  ^yiutumn 
Enola  ChainberJfn 
Let  us  speak  softly  in  this  autumn  air, 
Lest  we  disturb  the  orchard's  loose-held  leaves, 
Or  send  to  ground  the  last  late-hanging  pear, 
Or  fright  the  swallow  clinging  to  the  eaves. 
Lest  we  disturb  the  robin  now  at  rest 
Before  his  flight  to  reach  the  summer  south; 
Disturb  the  chipmunk  on  his  acorn  quest, 
The  squirrel,  a  pilfered  nut  within  his  mouth. 
Let  us  speak  softly,  corn  is  in  the  shock; 
The  yellow  pumpkins  piled  across  the  field, 
The  frost  has  drawn  back  his  hand  to  knock. 
To  hammer  loudly  on  the  summer's  shield. 
Let  us  speak  softly,  nature  waits  to  know 
If  all  the  earth  is  ready  for  her  snow. 
The  Cover:  Pueblo  at  Taos,  New  Mexico 
Photograph  by  Willard  Luce 
Frontispiece  Photograph:  Autumn  Morning,  Near  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Photograph  by  Harry  Harpster,  Jr. 
Cover  Design  by  Evan  Jensen

Sparkling  Family  Hour 
Shiihy  B.  and  Monroe  /.  Paxman 
HAS  your  family  life  been  all 
that  you  wanted  it  to  be? 
Has  it  been  fun,  romantic, 
genuinely  interesting?  Especially 
has  it  been  free  from  tension  and 
bickering?  Does  each  member  stay 
relaxed  and  completely  at  ease? 
If  you  are  like  a  great  many  of 
us,  your  answer  is  probably  ''No." 
Too  often  home  life  is  something 
to  be  endured,  rather  than  enjoyed. 
Family  routine  becomes  just  that- 
routine. 
If  yours  is  that  way,  then  we  have 
good  news  for  you. 
'Tamily  Hour"  is  the  answer! 
This  plan  for  happiness  is  neither 
costly,  complicated,  nor  coyprighted. 
And,  best  of  all,  it  can  be  adapted 
for  use  by  any  family  anywhere. 
Many  parents  overlook  the  tre- 
mendous possibilities  of  happiness 
within  their  own  family  circle.  They 
plan  things  to  get  away  from  their 
children  instead  of  planning  to  in- 
clude them  all. 
We  believe  the  Family  Hour  is 
the  finest  way  to  create  and  strength- 
en family  unity,  to  build  tradition 
in  the  home.  Traditions,  in  their 
simplest  sense,  mean  something  peo- 
ple invent  in  order  to  hold  fast  to 
home  and  one  another.  Little  things, 
often  repeated,  if  they  are  pleasant 
things,  become  woven  into  the 
commonplaceness  of  existence  like 
bright  threads  —  giving  character, 
lending  enchantment.  And  the 
memories  of  family  tradition  that 
children  accumulate  go  with  them 
through  their  lives. 
Page  644 
The  traditions  holding  families  to- 
gether are  often  so  small  and  simple 
that  the  outside  world  hardly  recog- 
nizes them.  The  father  and  mother 
who  devote  one  regular  time  to 
social  life  with  their  children  will 
escape  that  left-out  feeling  when 
their  children  have  grown  up.  Those 
with  a  tradition  of  love  and  com- 
panionship, dignity,  and  peace,  will 
give  their  children  a  heritage  they 
will  fight  to  preserve. 
The  Family  Hour  provides  the 
most  ideal  situation  to  teach  religion 
in  the  home,  to  discuss  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel  and  instill  in 
our  children  the  desire  to  apply  the 
gospel  teachings  to  their  daily  lives. 
It  provides  an  opportunity  for 
teaching  and  practicing  self-expres- 
sion by  active  participation  of  each 
family  member;  for  developing  and 
encouraging  talents  of  family  mem- 
bers; for  teaching  consideration  and 
respect  for  others;  for  encouraging 
co-operation  among  all  members  of 
the  family,  the  Church,  the  schools 
and  the  community;  and,  above  all, 
it  encourages  fun  and  laughter  and 
wholesome  recreation  within  the 
family  circle. 
VIU^RITING  from  our  own  experi- 
ence in  conducting  the  Family 
Hour  in  our  home,  there  are  several 
suggestions  we  might  make  that 
help  build  toward  a  more  enriched 
Family  Hour. 
1,  Adapt  your  Family  Hour  program  to 
the  needs  and  ages  of  your  own  family. 
We  suggest  great  flexibility  and  a  willing- 
ness to  change  the  program  on  the  spur

SPARKLING  FAMILY  HOUR 
645 
of  the  moment,  if  it  doesn't  suit  the 
family's  desires.  This  doesn't  lead  to  a 
haphazard  "make-do-occasion, "  if  well- 
supplied  preparations  are  kept  on  hand. 
Being  prepared  with  a  great  variety  of 
activities  or  themes  for  family  hour  is  a 
great  help  in  keeping  the  interest  and 
enthusiasm  of  the  family  in  high  favor. 
2.  Set  aside  a  definite  time  when  the 
family  can  gather  together  free  from  any 
interruptions  or  absences.  This  isn't  easy 
to  do  but  is  of  primary  importance  to  a 
continued,  persistent  Family  Hour.  Once 
the  time  is  decided  upon,  all  family  mem- 
bers plan  their  schedules  to  allow  for  the 
Family  Hour.  By  advance  mutual  agree- 
ment it  can  be  held  earUer  if  something 
of  intense  importance  requires  part  or  all 
of  the  members  of  the  family  to  be  else- 
where. 
Many  wards  and  stakes  have  adopted 
the  practice  of  setting  aside  certain  eve- 
nings as  "home  evenings"  to  encourage 
families  in  the  observance  of  the  Family 
Hour,  free  from  conflicting  meetings. 
It  is  helpful  to  gain  the  support  of  the 
Priesthood  by  asking  leaders  to  encour- 
age active  participation  by  men  in  the 
Family  Hour. 
3.  The  Family  Hour  should  begin  with 
prayer  or  be  closed  with  family  prayers. 
Prayers  seem  especially  heartwarming  and 
earnest  after  time  spent  with  the  family. 
The  prayer  should  be  short  and  appro- 
priate and  should  contribute  to  the  spirit, 
purpose,  and  theme  of  the  evening. 
4.  All  members  of  the  family  should 
have  opportunity  for  various  responsibilities 
in  the  Family  Hour.  Some  families  choose 
themes  weeks  or  months  ahead  according 
to  the  vote  of  the  family,  and  make  as- 
signments to  family  members.  Others  use 
a  weekly  assignment  sheet  posted  on  the 
bulletin  board,  rotating  assignments  as 
follows:  chairman,  storyteller,  refresh- 
ment chairman,  game  leader,  scripture 
reader,  family  council  chairman,  cleanup. 
Assignments  can  be  combined  or  expanded 
to  fit  the  number  of  children  in  the  fam- 
ily. Each  person  rotates  to  the  next  posi- 
tion each  week. 
5.  Developing  children's  leadership  abili- 
ties  is   an   important   aim   of   the  Family 
Hour.  It's  easier  for  the  parents  just  to 
"take  charge"  and  order  that  this  and 
that  be  done.  But  the  wise  parents  will 
delegate  the  responsibilities,  set  up  an 
organization,  and  let  the  children  run  the 
program,  with  only  occasional  guidance 
from  Mom  and  Dad. 
6.  A  scripture  reading  each  tfme  will 
assist  family  members  in  respect  for  and 
familiarity  with  the  standard  works.  Let 
each  family  member  select  his  favorite  pas- 
sages. The  older  children  or  the  parents 
can  give  helpful  guidance  to  those  who 
need  help  with  their  selections. 
7.  Family  council  should  be  an  integral 
part  of  each  family  hour.  It  encourages 
communication  and  the  expression  of  feel- 
ings for  a  good  practice  of  the  democratic 
process.  This  period  need  not  be  long. 
It's  actually  best  to  avoid  long,  drawn- 
out  "grievance-type-sessions."  Five  minutes 
spent  in  airing  family  problems  will  go  a 
long  way  toward  orderliness.  Try  to  keep 
it  constructive  and  don't  get  carried  away 
with  doing  everything  by  vote.  The  aim 
is  to  solve  problems,  not  just  to  legislate. 
Help  prepare  your  older  children  to  make 
constructive  statements  about  the  neces- 
sity and  value  of  co-operative  family  work. 
8.  Choose  a  project  for  each  occasion 
toward  which  each  person  expends  his 
best  efforts.  You'll  think  of  dozens,  but 
here  are  some  samples:  "I  am  part  of  my 
home."  (Each  is  to  improve  the  home.) 
"I  like  my  family."  (Encourage  recogni- 
tion of  blessings  and  expression  of  apprecia- 
tion.) "Waste  not — want  not."  (Turn  off 
lights,  water,  range.  Compare  utility  bills 
with  previous  periods,  etc.)  "A  place  for 
everything — everything  in  its  place."  "I 
know  something  good  about  you." 
9.  Refreshments.  Help  them,  give  ad- 
vice if  needed,  but  let  the  children  do  it. 
A  budget,  say  25c  or  so,  will  help  this 
chairman  use  his  ingenuity  and  imagina- 
tion. Keep  them  simple — popcorn,  a 
marshmallow  roast,  fruit,  a  special  dessert. 
10.  Inviting  guests.  Here's  a  world  of 
opportunity  to  encourage  understanding 
and  tolerance  for  others  and  the  sharing 
of  joys.  Much  can  be  learned,  more  can 
be  shared.