[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Edwards]
Work ITleeting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Living Economically Elder William F. Edwards For Tuesday, December 10, 1957 Objective: To understand that wise people, whether their income is relatively large or small, learn that it is good to live economically, because it is a good way of life. HE previous lesson discussed the importance of budget planning. We have all observed in others, or have been tempted sufficiently to learn by experience, that: One sure way to make life miserable is to live in a manner that you can't afford (Richard L. Evans). On the other hand, we have also come to realize that: If there is any one thing that will bring peace and contentment into the human heart, and into the family, it is to live within our means (Heber J. Grant). The Importance of Economy Living economically is a_ basic fundamental for happiness and success that is logically related to budgets, and it is equally important for all, rich and poor alike. The writer will always remember his first trip with members of his family to Victoria, Canada. In the government building in this beautiful city these words are on display: Without economy none can be rich; With it none can be poor. Two ancient proverbs re-emphasize this important principle of successful living: Eat and drink, but waste not by excess, for God loveth not the wasters (Abrabian Proverb). No gain is more certain than that which proceeds from the economical use of what we have (Latin Proverb). LESSON DEPARTMENT Life of the Master In this day, when so many people are stressing the physical standards of living above the real joy of living, it is good to reflect upon the circumstances surrounding the life of the Master. The birth of Jesus was one of the greatest events in history. In keeping with its importance, his birth was preceded by heavenly directed preparations, and it was heralded by angels. He could have been born in a castle, with parents of worldly fame, and showered with wealth. "For with God nothing shall be impossible" (Luke 1:37). His mother knew that he was the Christ Child, and she was concerned over his safety and comfort. But "she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger" (Luke 2:7). Joseph was apparently a humble carpenter. Mary cared for her baby and provided for his needs in modest circumstances. Apparently, this was the best environment for the growth and development of Jesus for his great mission. "And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him" (Luke 2:40). Later, when Jesus undertook his mission, he traveled "without purse or scrip." Surely, in this experience we find a lesson for all families. Lessons From Book of Mormon The Book of Mormon includes many incidents where people became strong because of experience that forced them to live with extreme economy and to be humble, and then in a few years, with prosperity, they began to live extrava- 627 gantly and lost their faith. In Alma, chapter 4, we find this whole cycle recorded in ten brief verses. In the sixth year after the appointment of the judges, the people were suffering because of "the loss of their flocks and herds, and also for the loss of their fields of grain " from economic poverty. But this humble environment was a blessing for the people, as "they were awakened to a remembrance of their duty. And they began to establish the church more fully." 'The Lord blessed them because of their repentant attitude. But within two years:... The people of the church began to wax proud, because of their exceeding riches, and their fine silks, and their finetwined linen, and because of their many flocks and herds, and their gold and their silver, and all manner of precious things, which they had obtained by their industry; and in all these things they were lifted up in the pride of their eyes, for they began to wear very costly apparel (Alma 4:6). The Lord blessed the people, and they became prosperous. 'This was good. 'The unfortunate mistake was that the people ceased to live economically and to remain humble, but rather became proud of their wealth and became worldly. Observations of the working of the same cycle in more modern times has given validity to the statement, "from shirt sleeves to shirt sleeves in three generations." History has revealed the wisdom, and_ the Church in its conduct constantly sets the example, of the importance of living economically. Thoughts for Discussion The following are suggested challenging observations for discussion: 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 1. To those who have above averagé a. One can be very limited in worldmeans: ly possessions and rich in values that are eternal. 'The real values a. Have you kept your sights on the include good work habits, cleanlithings that are eternal? Are you able to resist the frequent tendency when people become rich in the things of this world of becoming less rich or even poor in the real values that are eternal?. It may be wise to look upon prosperity as an opportunity fraught with danger. 'The danger is that we may become worldly, overstress the physical, and rear our children in an environment that is not conducive to maximum spiritual, moral, and educational growth. C. Are you depriving your children of those experiences that helped to mold your character and taught you the valuable lessons of work, thrift, and appreciation? If you say to your children that you can't afford something that they wish, and your children know that this is not true, this will only stimulate their efforts to find a way of persuading you to give in. On the other hand, if the children are taught by precept and example that it is good to live economically, not because you have to, but because it is good, they will understand that many things that others have are not desirable, and they will support you in your family leadership.. To have above average means is a blessing if one remembers that the blessing lies in the increased power to be of service. It may be easier to be meek when poor, but it may be more noble to be meek when rich! 2. To those who have below average means: ness, honesty, love and good will toward fellow men, and a desire to serve.. Inspire your children with a desire for knowledge, to excell in their studies, and to be strong in their faith and loyal to the Church. From children thus taught will come the great men and women of tomorrow. C. Always say, with true sincerity, "I will share what I have, and if I had more I would give more." The outstanding examples in the teachings of the Master of people giving were not the rich sharing their abundance, but the people of limited means sharing because of the goodness of their hearts. The gift of the equivalent of the widow's mite is always received with complete appreciation if given "not grudgingly, or of necessity; for God loveth a cheerful giver" (II Corinthians 9:7).. It would be unwise to look upon being poor as a failure to receive the blessings of the Lord, unless this condition is due to one's own failure and unwillingness to do those things that bring the blessings of the Lord. The Lord always blesses the poor who become strong in spirit. 3. To all—the rich and the poor: a. One is poor if "keeping up with the Joneses' becomes of greater concern than doing what is nght.. One is poor if he covets the things owned by others and cannot rejoice in seeing others enjoy worldly possessions (that he may be unable to buy or chooses not to acquire). eran — Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 11—""Twelfth Night, or What You Will" Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, December 17, 1957 Objective: To show that even though exaggerated through comedy situations, Shakespeare's characters reveal to us traits common to all humanity. ARTICULARLY for the rapidly growing Puritan strain among middle-class Englishmen, the Christmas season in Shakespeare's day was not a time for celebration, but rather a devotional period, filled with somberness and dedication. Because the twelve-day period which followed the birth of the Christ Child was held to be symbolical of motherhood, it was distinguished by an air of solemnity. At the end of this period the jollification began—on the twelfth day, while the renewing celebration reached full tempo only during the evening of the twelfth night. 'There is evidence that Twelfth Night, or What You Will, was written to be presented at this time which might explain why it is the happiest play that Shakespeare ever wrote, even while a somber strain runs just beneath the surface of the play from beginning to end. One of the great goals of artists and thinkers and thoughtful readers of every age has been to recast accumulative truth in their own images. Each period, each place has its own idiom and personality, and therefore in its seeing and saying differs from the past which it has inherited and absorbed, minute as that difference may be. A small placard reading, "Teenage talked here" could hang in the window of a haberdashers or dress shop in no age but our own. Conversely,... She never told her love, But let concealment lke a worm 7' the bud, Feed on her damask cheek. She pined in thought, And with a green and yellow melancholy She sat like Patience on a monument, Smiling at grief. II. 4. 113-118 may seem equally a foreign tongue to our very own teenage children, and possibly to us as well. Yet differences of whatever magnitude must not be allowed to obscure basic similarities. Man has been man in all ages, woman has been woman, and Shakespeare, Shakespeare. Yet from age to age, there is a difference. Twelfth Night may be considered a bridge between the younger and the more mature Shakespeare. This is important in understanding why today this play is still one of Shakespeare's best-loved comedies, just as it has been from the date of its composition in 1600 or 1601, when he was thirty-six or thirty-seven years of age. From the date of his first play ten years earlier up to Twelfth Night, the rising and successful playwright had written either twentyPage 629 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 one or twenty-two plays—nine of them were comedies, three of them tragedies, and the rest histories. The Merry Wives of Windsor, Much Ado About Nothing, and As You Like It had all appeared within two years preceding 'Twelfth Night. Their very titles reveal them as gay, rollicking comedies, filled with pranks and puns, brilliant word-play, bravado, and young love finally united in happiness. One explanation of Twelfth Night's enduring popularity may be that it appeals to both young and old, to those who are merry, sad, or, more commonly, to those who are both at once. And that is exactly what the play does. 'The earlier comedies are brimming with roistering talk, impish tricks, disguises and mistaken identities, earthly humor and pun. Appeals to the Young-in-Spirit From Shakespeare's Globe Theater to our own drive-ins, the youngin-spirit have provided the bulk of theater audiences. For them, the most famous line in this play makes it seem their own voice as Sir Toby, reminding pompous, stern Malvolio that he is out of tune, says, " Dost thou think because thou art virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale.?" (II. 3. 124-125). Or, to paraphrase, do you think that just because you are older, without flaw, and settled down, no one else shall celebrate? Next, the very names of Sir 'Toby Belch and Sir Andrew Aguecheek contain the same quality of caricature so often prominent in teenage nicknames, while Feste, the name of a play's clown or fool, is almost festivity itself. Another perennial favorite of all ages is the pun, the play on words having the same sound but different meanings. It is still popular among us in the latest "Happy Little Moron" jokes. Note the overtones of meaning evoked from almost the first lines in the play resulting from the similarity between hart (or male deer) and heart, the source of love and passion. Curio, the Duke's attendant, asks him if he will go hunting. Duke. What, Curio? Cur. The hart. Duke. Why, so I do, the noblest that I have. Oh, when mine eyes did see Olivia first, Methought she purged the air of pestilence! That instant was I turned into a hart, And my desires, like fell [fierce] and cruel hounds, E'er since pursue me. I. 1. 16-23 Or note a similar device as employed with brilliant effectiveness in the repartee between the heroine and Feste, the clown: Vio. Save thee, friend, and thy music. Dost thou live by thy tabor? No, sir, I live by the church. Art thou a churchman? No such matter, sir, I do live by the church, for I do live at my house, and my house doth stand by the church. So thou mayst say the King lies by a beggar, if a beggar dwell near him, or the church stands by thy tabor, if thy tabor stand by the church. You have said, sir. 'To see this age! A sentence is but a cheveril glove to a good wit. How quickly the wrong side may be turned outward! IIT. 1. 1-15 Clo. Vio. Clo. Vio. Clo. LESSON DEPARTMENT Such sharp word-use is often too condensed and subtle for the modern audience, although the HopeBenny-Gobel-Linkletter clan perpetuate it in milder form. However, enjoyment is quickened considerably if such zest-in-words is first read on the cold page; then when it ls recognized in the mouths of players on the stage, it sparkles with the cryptic power of youth's jargon in all ages, and imparts warming, breathing illusion of reality which is one of Shakespeare's highest attainments. Various dialogue scenes between Sir Toby and Sir Andrew, Feste and Maria, and Feste and Vlola offer much more such brilliant word-play, from which excerpts might be mimeographed and read carefully and aloud with your group. Major Theme—Love Twelfth Night is a story of great beauty, both because it is expertly put together by an expert craftsman, and because it tells a delightful love story, one as pure and simple as that of Midsummer Night's Dream. When the usual Shakespearean grand assembly occurs in the fifth act, all misunderstandings are explained and three couples—Viola and the Duke Orsino, Olivia and Sebastian, Maria and Sir 'Toby—are suddenly revealed to each other as pledged lovers, "... And they all live happily ever after." Young lovers love most to read about young love, and the play is loaded with the imagery and vocabulary of love, all in the Italian vogue which was as dominant and popular a force in France and the Elizabethan stage as Italian movies and exotic movie stars are in the United States today. And many of the conventions of 631 Reproduced by Permission of the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre Stratford-Upon-Avon, England Photograph by Angus McBean LAURENCE OLIVIER AS MALVOLIO IN "TWELFTH NIGHT" contemporary love-lore are embodied within the play, particularly in the speeches of the lovesick Orsino: that love torments the lovers (I. 1. Gg]. A 2Gydh. 4. 15)» tat abe woman should be younger than her lover (II. 4. 29-32), that man loves more deeply than woman (II. 4. 94-106), that concealed love is never consummated (II. 4. 113-118), that scorn breeds love (III. 1. 156-160), that true love is jealous (IV. 3. 27). Plot Few of Shakespeare's plays contain a better integration of balanced scenes, with each scene completely justifying itself within the structure of the whole, and at the same time by its own merits holding the unbroken attention of the audience 632 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 than does Twelfth Night. Similarly, there are just barely a leading man and lady, since so many critics still debate whether the play is dominated by Viola or Olivia, by Orsino, Malvolio, or Feste. Rather, all blend together marvelously well, which gives the play its tight-knit structure and pleasing pattern. 'The speeches are short, very few running the length of a sonnet, thus shifting the center of attention constantly from one to another in a fine blending and counterpoint motion. The plot is sheer fantasy — improbable, exotic, romantic, yet, by its sustained popularity over the centuries, it stands to refute those realists and modernists who would insist that only the immediate, the squalid, and the low endure. In faraway Illyria the overly sentimental Duke, Orsino, pines away for his ladylove, the rich Countess Olivia, who is mourning with undue fervor the death of her brother. Orsino sends an attractive page, Cesario, to present his suit to Olivia but instead of falling in love with Orsino, Olivia becomes infatuated with Cesario. Cesario is actually Viola, a shipwrecked maiden traveling in disguise, distraught at the supposed death of Sebastian, her twin, in the storm which she survived. Malvolio, steward to the countess, shares her melancholy, but actually he would like to share her favors and wealth as well, for foolishly he aspires for her hand. Olivia's Uncle Toby Belch enjoys sponging off her household for the comforts of life, and keeps himself in spending money by encouraging Sir Andrew Aguecheek to believe that his bid for the widow Olivia's hand will be successful—if he continues to hire the right cupid to arrange it, namely Sir 'Toby. When the pompous chief steward Malvolio offends Sir Toby, Sir Toby and the keen, shrewd servingwoman, Maria, plot revenge. 'They plant a letter, supposed to have been written by Olivia, in which Olivia tells of her love for Malvolio and instructs Malvolio, if he returns her love to wear yellow stockings (which Olivia actually abhors) and smile whenever she approaches. Olivia makes violent love to Cesario, the boy-girl page, and Sir Toby motivates a duel between Sir Andrew and Cesario. _Horrorstricken at the thought of duelling, Cesario-Viola is trapped until Antonio, the captain of the ship on which her brother was traveling comes to her rescue. He thinks she is her twin brother Sebastian, who is actually very much alive, and calls her by that name. Officers appear and arrest Antonio. CesarioViola leaves the scene pursued by Sir Andrew who meets her brother. Thinking Sebastian is Cesario-Viola, he draws his sword and begins to duel. Just then Olivia appears, and, determined not to lose her beloved Cesario-Viola again, she hustles him off to a church and marries him, but she really marries Sebastian, who falls in love with her on the spot. Malvolio had previously appeared before Olivia, doing as the letter directed so well that she has him thrown into a dark cell, believing him mad. There Feste, the fool, taunts him. Malvolio bitterly resents his mistreatment, Toby and LESSON DEPARTMENT Sir Andrew repent, but at the play's end Malvolio alone still suffers. Orsino enters with Cesario-Viola whom Olivia addresses as her husband, which Orsino resents. 'Then Sir Andrew accuses Cesario-Viola of wounding him in the duel and, for a moment, all is confusion, until Sebastian enters, realizes his sister is alive, admits marrying Olivia and duelling Sir Andrew. Viola reveals her love for Orsino who has _already been attracted to her as a page, Sir Toby agrees to marry Maria, who has long dreamed of lifting herself out of the servant class by marrying royalty. It is at that moment that the clown gives the famous lines, "Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon "em" (V. I. 376). While Malvolio fumes his disappointment and abuse, the happy couples leave the stage, and Feste sings a final ditty. Shakespeare's Living Characterizations In Twelfth Night the players once more arise from the printed page or walk past the footlights to become lost in the crowd, and be one of us. Here, again, is living proof that Shakespeare knows us best, since he is of our time almost more than his own, and, hence, not confined within time's boundaries. Particularly in this play are we amused at his knowledge of humanity's weaknesses and exaggerated devices of foolish self-defense and grandiose rationalizations, even as we readily recognize these echoing traits in ourselves and in our fellows. For example, Sir Andrew's self- 633 love does not permit him to recognize that he is not so "well endowed by nature as by fortune," and so he becomes a ready, gullible rabbit for Sir Toby's snares. Olivia is "tesolved to mourn" her brother's loss in fitting fashion, but instead so exaggerates her self-denials that she hides behind them as an acceptable escape from all reality, including her own inner desires as a woman. But Duke Orsino cannot face reality full-on either. Yes, he falls in love —but he woos the idea of being in love, rather than any woman.

He poses and preens as he sighs over the atmosphere of love in which he bathes himself, yet courage and action are not in him, as they must be in any true lover. No sharper contrast to Orsino could emerge than that which we find in Viola, also in love, but the love within her elevates her into achieving true love's high virtues: constancy, selfdenial, honest passion, courage, and integrity. But, again, in contrast to her, Maria's sharp wit and desire for world security must substitute for what love's weapons should be. She ensnares Sir 'Toby, outsharps the sharper, and gains worldly station— goals far distant from those of a lover, but supremely satisfactory to her. While many of the above characters are exaggerated and the plot situations impossible, no one really objects, so well are we aware that these realms of artistic tecreation of life create within us more of reality than does life itself. We see them and we see through them. And, therefore, even more sharply we see ourselves and our own similar traits, perhaps a little shamefacedly, yet with amusement, 634 Twelfth Night a Symphony Twelfth Night may be compared to a symphony with love as the major theme and several minor themes beautifully intertwined to make a perfect composition. From its opening lines to its final words, this gentle, pleasant play often is set ringing with musical tones and echoes. If music be the food of love, play on. Give me excess of it, that, surfeiting, The appetite may sicken, and so die. That strain again! It had a dying fall. Oh, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound That breathes upon a bank of violets, Stealing and giving odor! Enough, no a O spirit of love, how quick and fresh art thou! 1.0700 The songs of the fool Feste are some of the purest lyrics in the language, and reveal the musicianpoet Shakespeare at his best. Perhaps most popular because of its moving, simple beauty is his first song: O mistress mine, where are you roaming? Oh, stay and hear, your truelove's coming, That can sing both high and low. Trip no further, pretty sweeting, Journeys end in lovers meeting, Every wise man's son doth know What is love? 'Tis not hereafter, Present mirth hath present laughter, What's to come is still unsure. In delay there lies no plenty, Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty, Youth's a stuff will not endure. IT. 3. 40-45, 48-54 But not all the songs are as happy as this one; indeed many create and prolong the dominant bass-note of sadness and wistful melancholy which pervades the entire play. This is evidenced most strongly in the utRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 terances of Orsino, Viola, and particularly Feste, the jester who is " wise enough to play the fool, And to do that well craves a kind of wit " (IIL. 1. 67-68). It is songs such as the following one sung by Feste which help make Twelfth Night " a settled gravity—a silvery undertone of sadness, which makes it perhaps the loveliest of all Shakespeare's high comedies" (John Middleton Murry, Shakespeare, page 225). Duke. Oh, fellow, come, the song we had last night. Mark it, Cesario, it is old and plain. The spinsters and the knitters in the sun And the free maids that weave their thread with bones Do use to chant it. It is silly sooth, And dallies with the innocence of love, Like the old age. Clo. Are you ready, sir? Duke. Aye, prithee sing. Clo. [SingsI Come away, come away, death, And in sad cypress let me be laid. Fly away, fly away, breath, I am slain by a fair cruel maid. My shroud of white, stuck all with yew, Oh, prepare it! My part of death, no one so true Did share it! Il. 4. 43-59 The words sadness and madness appear constantly in dulcet tones, almost like a chant, as also does drowned. Yes, there is love in the play, but it is languorous, overly rich, surfeited, sad with too much gaiety and glitter. A key line is Maria's when, speaking of the raving Malvolio, she says:... I am as mad as he, If sad and merry madness equal be. III. 4. 15-16 Sacred Music for Ladies Three Part Choruses GLORY TO GOD—Bach-Wilson.25 GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP PEACE OF MIND-—Stickles 20 IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen_ -.20 IN THY FORM—Madsen.20 INVOCATION—Moore --.20 KING OF GLORY—Parks.20 LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen.20 SPIRIT OF GOD—Neidlinger 18 TEACH ME, O LORD—Hamblen.20 THY BLESSING ON THIS HOUSE, DEAR LORD—Madsen.20 VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— I 22 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY I 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Name Address City & State Please send the music indicated above. [J On Approval LC] Charge (J Money Enclosed ee ec ee ee re ce ee ee ee ee wee ee ee ee ee eee ' 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOe! Salt Lake City 11, Utah % For Relief Society and Genealogy Workers TYPEWRITING CLASSES CLASSWORK BEGINS SEPT. 9 Classes to run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction for adults who wish to use typewriting in genealogy and other Church work. Call for reservations.