[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Poem | Title: Worship]
worship  our  Heavenly  Father  in  his  house.  Your  spirit,  as  well  as  your 
body,  must  be  fed  to  become  the  lovely  thing  you  want  it  to  be." 
Needless  to  say,  after  that,  with  you  and  Mother  we  filed  happily  to 
Church.  After  Sunday  School,  permission  to  play  on  the  slide  and  swings 
in  the  park  we  knew  would  be  denied,  so  we  read  quietly,  or  visited  rela- 
tives. How  secure  a  small  child  feels  under  the  influence  of  parents  who 
live  with  a  purpose  and  point  the  way  of  truth  unwaveringly. 
Not  long  after  you  returned  from  your  mission  around  the  world, 
one  day  you  seated  me  beside  you  and  announced  that  it  was  time  that 
I  was  baptized.  ''Do  you  know  what  that  means,  Emma  Rae?  When  you 
are  immersed  in  the  water,  all  of  your  sins  are  washed  away.  You  emerge 
a  new  person  with  a  determination,  I  hope,  to  keep  your  life  clean  and 
sweet.  After  you  are  baptized,  you  v/ill  be  confirmed  a  member  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  receive  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  to  guide  you  in  choosing  the  right  when  temptation  confronts 
you." 
With  deep  appreciation,  I  recall  a  lesson  in  politeness  that  you 
taught  me.  Upon  request,  I  arose  from  the  dinner  table  to  cut  more 
bread.  Returning,  and  before  placing  the  bread  on  the  table,  I  helped 
myself  to  a  slice.  All  you  said  was,  "Always  serve  yourself  last.  Be  mind- 
ful of  others  first."  That  was  enough.  Although  you  said  no  more  than 
that,  from  then  on,  this  lesson  in  courtesy  was  reinforced  and  indelibly 
stamped  upon  my  mind  by  your  daily  practice  of  it. 
Often  you  counseled,  "It  is  the  little  things  in  life  that  count— the 
habitual  use  of  'please,'  'thank  you,'  and  'pardon  me,'  that  are  im- 
portant." Sometimes,  when  our  play  was  tense  and  our  voices  became 
shrill,  you  quoted  King  Lear's  eulogy  to  Cordelia  to  quiet  us:  "Her  voice 
was  ever  soft,  gentle,  and  low,  an  excellent  thing  in  woman." 
Page  573