[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 10 | Category: General Feature | Title: 600 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
of  the  Relief  Society  would  un- 
doubtedly bring  many  ideas.  If  one 
is  thinking  of  subject  matter  or 
knowledge  of  contents  alone,  she 
would  learn  from  her  study  that  a 
great  number  of  ideas  are  found  in 
these  revelations.  The  whole  ex- 
perience of  man's  earth-life  is  large- 
ly covered.  Instruction  is  found,  as 
one  might  expect,  in  how  to  attain 
spiritual  salvation  (sometimes  called 
by  us  ''entering  the  celestial  king- 
dom or  exaltation").  But  one  also 
discovers  that  these  revelations  are 
concerned  with  what  man  might 
consider  the  "temporal"  things  of 
life.  From  this  volume  of  scripture, 
it  is  learned  that  the  Lord  looks  up- 
on all  phases  of  man's  earth  exist- 
ence as  a  necessary  part  of  his  jour- 
ney to  eternal  life,  or  exaltation. 
(See  D.  &  C.  29:34-35.)  This  is 
very  well  expressed  by  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  in  these  words: 
It  has  always  been  a  cardinal  teaching 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  a  religion 
that  has  not  the  power  to  save  people 
temporally  and  make  them  prosperous  and 
happy  here  cannot  be  depended  upon  to 
save  them  spiritually  and  to  exalt  them 
in  the  Hfe  to  come  (Quoted  by  Albert  E. 
Bowen,  The  Church  Welfare  Plan,  page 
36). One  will,  therefore,  find  emphasis 
given  to  one's  health  (what  one 
should  or  should  not  eat,  as  well  as 
to  the  amount  of  sleep  one  should 
have).     We   discover   that  knowL 
Page  619

620  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1957 
edge  saves,  and  the  value  one  should  An  Unique  Book 
place  upon  different  types  of  knowl-  As  we  study  this  book  of  scrip- 
edge.  The  need  to  incorporate  the  ture,  we  should  remember  that  we 
gospel  truths  into  our  lives,  in  ad-  are  studying  the  message  of  the  Lord 
dition  to  the  acquisition  of  knowl-  Jesus  Christ.  This  message  is  ad- 
edge,  is  emphasized  so  well  that  we  dressed  to  the  people  who  make  up 
are  never  in  doubt  as  to  the  neces-  the  last  and  greatest  dispensation  of 
sity  of  doing  so.  Counsel  is  given  the  gospel— the  fulness  of  times, 
on  what  the  Latter-day  Saint  is  to  There  are  many  things  which  make 
do  to  prevent  being  deceived  by  the  The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  an 
adversary;  he  learns  that  Satan  is  a  unique  book,  but,  primarily,  its 
personal  being  and  also  of  his  pur-  uniqueness  arises  out  of  the  facts 
poses.  Above  all,  the  student  of  that  it  is  (i)  the  word  of  Jesus 
The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  learns  Christ  the  Lord,  and  (2)  it  is  a  mod- 
of  the  true  nature  of  Jesus  as  the  ern  book. 
Savior   of  mankind,   of   his   justice  A  study  of  what  the  Lord  himself 
and  mercy,  and  of  his  relationship  has  said  concerning  his  message  is 
to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  found  in  Section  1.  From  there  we 
shall    find    the    Lord's    answer    to 
The  Spirit  oi  ''What  do  I  expect  to  gain  from  a 
The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  study  of  The  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
The  ideas  suggested  thus  far  are  nants?" 
only  a  very  few  of  the  truths  to  be 
learned  as  one  examines  the  revela-  The  Superscription 
tions    section-by-section.     There   is  As  in  all  revelations,  a  knowledge 
almost  no  narration  in  this  book— a  of    the    historical    background   and 
fact  which  makes  it  different  from  context  provides  the  student  with 
the  other  Standard  Works,  such  as  essential  information  to  understand 
The  Book  of  Mormon.  Great  truths  what    is   intended   to   be   obtained 
are  found  on  every  page.     To  be-  from  the  message  or  messages  of  the 
come  acquainted  with  this  volume  revelation.      For    purposes    of    this 
of  scripture  can  be  one  of  the  rich-  course,   the  reader  should   become 
est     experiences     of     a     Latter-day  familiar  with  the  introductory  ma- 
Saint's  life.    There  is  a  spirit  about  terial    (called    the    ''superscription" 
a  book  of  scripture  which  is  readily  in  this  course)  at  the  head  of  each 
discernible.     It     is     the     spirit    of  section.     Sometimes  a  reference  to 
truth;  the  spirit  that  brings  assur-  the  History  of  the  Church  by  Jo- 
ance    of    things    divine.     It    comes  seph  Smith,  known  and  cited  in  this 
from  the  Holy  Ghost  to  bear  wit-  course  as  the  Documentary  History 
ness  of  the  truth.  It  is  this  spirit  oi  the  Church  (D.  H.  C.)  is  given 
that  the  author  hopes  will  be  re-  for  further  study  about  the  context 
ceived  by  the  students  of  this  series,  of  the  section. 
The  promise  is  given  that  all  may 
receive   this  blessing  by  their  dili-  The  Lords  Preface 
gence.      (See    D.    &    C.    11:22-27;  The  superscription  of  Section  1 
6:5-7;  Alma  12:9-11.)  informs    us   that  this   revelation   is

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
621 
known  as  ''the  Lord's  Preface." 
(See  also  verse  6  in  Section  i.)  This 
revelation  was  given  at  the  confer- 
ence of  the  Church  convened  No- 
vember 1,  1831,  when  the  ''Book 
of  Commandments"  was  adopted  by 
the  Priesthood  assembled  on  that 
occasion.  A  ''preface"  is  intended 
to  prepare  the  reader  with  an  ex- 
planation of  the  purpose  the  author 
had  in  writing  the  volume.  It  should 
concern  itself  with  matters  con- 
tained in  the  book  or  connected 
with  it. 
To  Whom  the  Message 
Is  Directed 
Appropriately,  the  Lord  intro- 
duces Section  1  with  the  announce- 
ment that  it  is  he  who  is  addressing 
".  .  .  ye  people  of  my  church  .  .  ." 
(D.  &  C.  1:1).  But  his  message  is 
not  only  for  the  Church  but  also 
".  .  .  unto  all  men,  and  there  is 
none  to  escape  .  .  ."  (D.  &  C.  1:2). 
Immediately  one  is  made  aware  that 
the  message  of  this  dispensation  is 
for  everyone.    In  fact: 
.  .  .  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto 
all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my  disciples, 
whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days 
(D.  &  C.  1:4). 
and  the  revelations  are  to  be  pub- 
lished: 
.  .  .  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the 
earth  (D.  &  C.  1:6). 
A  Voice  oi  Warning 
What  has  already  been  given  as 
a  principal  purpose  of  the  Lord's 
establishing  his  Church  upon  the 
earth?  What  should  we  expect  to 
gain  from  a  study  of  The  Doctrine 
and  Covenants?  It  is  a  "voice  of 
warning"  unto  all  people.  This  fact 
was  indelibly  impressed  upon  the 
mind  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
by  the  angel  Moroni,  who  quoted 
several  Bible  prophecies  indicating 
that  certain  judgments  were  to  come 
in  the  last  days  and  that  these  pre- 
dictions were  not  yet  fulfilled,  but 
were  soon  to  be.  (See  Pearl  of 
Great  Price,  Writings  of  Joseph 
Smith  2:40-41).  Following  this,  he 
informed  Joseph  Smith  ".  .  .  of 
great  judgments  which  were  coming 
upon  the  earth,  with  great  desola- 
tions by  famine,  sword,  and  pesti- 
lence; and  that  these  grievous  judg- 
ments would  come  on  the  earth  in 
this  generation  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  2:45). 
Later  on,  as  the  Prophet  received 
additional  revelations,  the  Lord 
made  it  known  that  the  faithful  of 
his  people  would  be  aware  of  the 
signs  of  the  times  and  look  forward 
in  righteousness  to  Jesus'  second 
coming.      (See  D.  &  C.   39:21-23; 
45-39-440 
Power  of  Sealing  the  Wicked 
In  the  performance  of  their  du- 
ties, the  Lord's  servants  are  to 
possess  the  power  to  seal  both  on 
earth  and  in  heaven.  Notice  that 
those  who  are  sealed  by  this  power 
are  those  who  reject  the  gospel,  and 
also  those  who  rebel  against  the 
servants  of  the  Lord  after  having 
accepted  his  message  (D.  &  C. 
1:8-9).  When  the  Lord  comes  he 
shall  ".  .  .  recompense  unto  every 
man  according  to  his  work,  and 
measure  to  every  man  according  to 
the  measure  which  he  has  measured 
to  his  fellow  man"  (D.  &  C.  1:10). 
Why  This  Message? 
Why  is  the  Lord's  message  of 
warning  directed  to  the  people  of