[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Mendenhall]
These wonderful people of New Zealand and those of Australia, Samoa, Tonga, 'Tahiti, and other island people, have been and are A TEMPLE RISES IN NEW ZEALAND Candid Camera Studies Hamilton, New Zealand 583 THE BEAUTIFUL NEW ZEALAND COUNTRYSIDE, WITH THE TEMPLE AT THE UPPER LEFT OF THE PICTURE faithful, humble, devoted members of the Church. 'They love the Lord, and the truth is embedded deep in their hearts. They enjoy their Church work and live according to its teachings. Many of these people have saved money for years to take them to the house of the Lord, but the amount needed is almost prohibitive, as they have large families and money is not easy for them to obtain. 'The majority of those faithful souls who have traveled to Hawaii to the temple have traveled steerage on a ship, with little or no spending money in their pockets, and all that they owned has been sold in order to make the trip. Yet they were happy in the thought that they were saving themselves and their ancestors. These good people have been told, in recent years, to stay home and save their money, to be faithful to the teachings of the gospel, and it might be possible to bring a temple to them. They have been waiting faithfully. ONE day in December 1954, President David O. McKay called Brother Wendell B. Mendenhall into his office and assigned him to a special mission of investigating possible temple sites in the beautiful faraway land of New Zealand. This assignment was of a confidential nature, and it made it impossible for Brother Mendenhall, upon 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 Candid Camera Studies Hamilton, New Zealand AT THE CORNERSTONE OF THE NEW ZEALAND TEMPLE December 22, 1956 Left to right: Elder Wendell B. Mendenhall, Chairman of the Church Building Committee; Elder R. Elwin Clark, a labor missionary; Elder Hugh B. Brown, Assistant to the Council of the 'Twelve; Elder Ariel S. Ballif, President, New Zealand Mission. His arrival in that land, to let the people he loved so much know that their dreams were finally going to come true. However, it was quite enough at that time to tell them that the Prophet of God and Sister McKay were going to pay them a visit in approximately three weeks. Imagine the thrill and excitement of those humble saints in knowing that President McKay was coming to their land! Many of them had never seen a prophet, now they would both see and hear one, maybe even shake his hand. No king had a greater welcome to any land than did the President of the Church have in the South Seas. He retired early the night of his arrival and was up bright and early the next morning ready and anxious to look at the temple site that had been selected, although it had not been discussed since his arrival. He was met by Brother Mendenhall, Brother Biesinger, Supervisor of Church Construction in New Zealand, and others, and they drove through Church-owned property to a beautiful green rolling hill on the connecting farm. All stepped from the car and looked over the grounds and the new college that is being constructed there. President McKay's eyes were bright with what he saw, and a smile came upon his face. A TEMPLE RISES IN NEW ZEALAND He was happy as he looked over the hill and could see the small cities around; he could see the little lake a short distance away, also beautiful grazing land for livestock. He called to Brother Mendenhall to come to his side and said, "What do you think?" In reply to his question, Brother Mendenhall said, "What do you think?" Then, in an almost prophetic tone, President McKay said, "This is the place to build the temple." THE ground was purchased and the temple ground-breaking ceremony was held December 21, 1955 at 2 p. M. President Ariel S. Ballif of the New Zealand Mission was in charge of the program, and approximately 1500 people attended. After singing "We Thank Thee O God for a Prophet," and hearing those words full of meaning ring out Bre rere creme mee neneanmemnmeram mimes ee es Fe prem ren cematnne ANRE OSyte ere menree germ 8 Candid Camera Studies Hamilton, New Zealand THE NEW ZEALAND TEMPLE IN COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION 585 to all the inhabitants nearby, I thought of the words of the prophet Brigham Young when the Salt Lake Temple was being built. He said: "I want to see the temple built in a manner that it will endure through the Millennium. 'This is not the only Temple we shall build; there will be hundreds of them built and dedicated to the Lord. 'This Temple will be known as the first Temple built in the mountains by the Latter-day Saints." I kept thinking, and this temple will be the first temple built in the South Pacific by our Latter-day Saints; they will build so it will endure through the Millennium as_ their hearts, and all their strength will be in their work. Thirty-six labor missionaries had been called from the mainland as supervisors for this work, and other Church buildings on the island. Brother E. Albert Rosenvall was 586 called to be supervisor for the construction of the temple under the direction of Brother George Biesinger. 'Two hundred fifteen labor missionaries were there from the Church membership of Australia, Tonga, Samoa, 'Tahiti, and New Zealand, living in small homes and dormitories they had helped to build while working on the New Zealand College and chapels in that area. These missionaries are supported by the membership of their missions, inasmuch as the New Zealand Temple will serve approximately 40,000 of the faithful people of those islands. Work on the temple started immediately after the groundbreaking and hasn't stopped since. While serving the Lord, men and_ boys have learned their trades. One Moari boy said, "I didn't want to come here to work, but now I want to die here." They love their work, they love the association with other good-living boys and girls, they enjoy the Church work in the College Branch, and the spirit they feel in giving service. Work progressed rapidly under the missionary labor program, and, on December 22, 1956, the cornerstone was laid by Elder Hugh B. Brown. Hundreds of saints had gathered from far and near for this impressive ceremony, and many of them were able to crowd into the temple for the program, after which all gathered around the building on the outside under the beautiful sky of blue and the fluffy white clouds for the cornerstone laying. Again, all missionaries renewed their determination to put their hearts and souls into the work in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 order to dedicate their temple unto the Lord around the beginning of 1958. From my apartment, I could hear singing from the early morning hours until long after the stars and the moon were shining brightly at night. How these people love to sing as they work! Yes, they are a chosen people. THE temple is located on the North Island of New Zealand. It is about three miles west of the town of Frankton Junction, which is near the city of Hamilton. It is on the most prominent site of the Church property, and the main axis of the building extends east and west and is parallel with the main highway running on the west side of the temple, which is the Pirongia Highway. According to Edward O. Anderson, architect, entrance to the temple grounds is by way of 'Temple Drive, which extends off Pirongia Highway at a ninety-degree angle. The drive has a rise of twenty feet from the highway, and the ground level of the temple is thirty-eight feet above the Drive, on a beautiful green rolling knoll, with native woodland nearby. 'This gives the temple a very imposing setting and makes it the most important and impressive building in the area. The temple is of reinforced concrete and concrete block construction with cast stone trim, most of which was manufactured on the site by the native missionaries. It is built in three main floor levels, which floors are expressed in the elevation design. The annex of the temple extends around the temple proper, and is eighty-four feet wide A TEMPLE RISES IN NEW ZEALAND Photograph by E. Albert Rosenvall 587 GS OE REE MOLES SMEAR UE 0 @ ' 3:: * *: baa x '3 ¥ SS send THE NEW ZEALAND TEMPLE NEARING COMPLETION June 1957 and 159 feet long, which gives a floor area of 13,358 square feet. 'This annex portion is one story high, the roof of which is sixteen feet above the ground line. The temple proper is fifty feet four inches wide and 114 feet long, and extends from the second floor line to a height of fiftysix feet above the ground, which is the roof line. The lower floor contains twentysix rooms, the principal of which are: baptismal room, baptismal office, dressing rooms, matron's office, children's room, women workers' lounge, men workers' lounge, laundry, sewing room, kitchen, and dining room. The oxen for the baptismal font were modeled by M. F. Malin and were cast and the font assembled in Switzerland. The main floor consists of twentyfour rooms, which are: entry, lounge, foyer, cloak rooms, inner foyer, chapel, president's office, counselors' office, recorder's office, general offices, dressing rooms, bride's room, consultation room, and linen room. The second floor contains eight rooms, including ordinance rooms and two sealing rooms. The second mezzanine floor contains two sealing rooms. Ventilating equipment is located both in the attic and in the basement. All finished woodwork in the temple is rimu wood, a native wood, which was milled on the site out of lumber which was sawed and taken from the Church timber tract at Kai Kohe, New Zealand, 250 miles away. 'The main ordinance room is finished in both rimu wood and marble. 'The sealing rooms are finished in marble. All floor cover- 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 ings, both hard floor and carpets, furnishings, wall coverings, furniture, draperies, and other appointments were incorporated in the design of the building, and all harmonize and are in keeping with the general conservative-modern design. A tower is located on the east side of the temple and extends ninetynine feet above the roof line. It is built of concrete block and _ reinforced concrete. On top of this tower, pointing towards the heavens, is a bronze spire which was manufactured in England. Yes, the beautiful bronze spire reaches heavenward, just as the prayers of the choice people of the South Seas have done. They have prayed to our Father in heaven for needed wisdom. 'They have done so in faith, nothing wavering. God has given to them liberally, and their prayers, their dreams, their very hearts' desires will soon come true. A temple of God is to be dedicated April 20, 1958. This will be a great occasion for those choice people of Israel who dwell in the islands of the sea. May God ever be with them.

<i Sour of Pennsylvania Margery S. Stewart This is Christ Church, the driver said, Underneath you are the stones That house their folded, ancient bones. They who builded, all lie dead. This is her house, the driver said, This red brick floor, this hearth, the loom. She made the banner in this room. But she who cut out stars is dead. This is Valley Forge, he said.... [he dogwood blossoms, loosed from heaven, Made, in the day, a lovely leaven... But all the valiant ones lie dead. How then in Christ Church, heard I prayer? Let this place, Lord, become thy root, For tree of holy, greater fruit. Nothing lives as long as prayer. From Ross house still, there flies today, A starrier banner than before, And one beloved by millions more. How new, alive, her flag today. On sweeping hills of Valley Forge A ghostly sentry stands apart And challenges the inmost heart... Nor death.°.. Nor death at Valley Forge. The Heavenly Bonus Rosa Lee Lloyd ALLIE'S dark brows puckered thoughtfully as she sat at her desk looking through the files of the Bay View Club Heart Drive. Cliff would be home any minute now, and what would he say when she told him she was the newly appointed captain of the Drive beginning tomorrow? He would be proud of her, no doubt, because it was an honor to be captain, but he would be amused, too. Cliff always saw the funny side of everything, and he would think it was very funny for Kallie to expect people to have money put away for a heart drive when she and Cliff were always on the slippery side of their budget. An ironic smile pouted her lips as her fingers went through the cards from the Maple Street district where she and Marge Johnson, her first leutenant, would canvass tomorrow. The Richard Starks had given ten dollars last year, and even dear old Mrs. Heaslip who lived next door to the Starks had given five dollars. How did they manage? Kallie wondered as she closed the file. How did they do it? She and Cliff never had a cent left over, not even enough for a little nest egg in the bank, and that had always been her dream—a nest egg. She heard Cliff's key in the lock, and she stood up and hurried to meet him. Her heart bounced high the minute she looked at him. His blue eyes were shining, his red hair was tuffled, and he danced her around the living room while he whistled the catchy new polka they had learned at the dance at Mutual last night. Cliff was a cut-up at home, and Kallie often wondered what he used for dignity in the stuffy law offices of Allen, Burk, and Edwards where he was the junior partner. He swung her onto the sofa and flopped down beside her, his bright head in her lap. "Oh, Mr. Edwards," she laughed, out of breath. "My heart—it's offbeat!" "Well, now, Mrs. Edwards, I think you'll live till morning—at least stay around until you hear the good news!" He stood up, buttoned his coat, smoothed his riotous hair, and looked down at her with elaborate solemnity. "Madame, you are now looking at a gentleman who has just received a bonus of one hundred dollars from Mrs. Jasmine Clipper." "The estate you took care of Kallie exclaimed. "The same, my love. Now this little bonus" Cliff tapped his pocket, "was given to me because the family thinks I did a good job." He did a rapid tap dance, rubbed his hands together, and beamed down at her. "So, as your legal adviser, let me recommend a vacation. First, we'll celebrate our wedding anniversary 'which begins 'Thursday night." Suddenly his eyes were wistful, and he sat down beside her again, cuddling her close in his arms. "Remember, darling, a year ago Page 589 ihe 590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 at the reception. There you were standing beside me so little and yet so queenly. 'That lovely little thing, I kept telling myself, is now my wife." His kiss was warm and_ very tender, and Kallie thought how kind and considerate he was. But he was impulsive, too, and headstrong and a little bit careless when it came to money. 'They still owed some on their furniture and the refrigerator, and yet he was planning to spend this extra hundred dollars on a vacation! She couldn't let him do it. She just wouldn't! HEY should put this money away for a nest egg, Kallie decided, hoping she could think of some way to convince him without a quarrel. 'They had only quarreled twice since their marriage, and both times it had been over money; once when Cliff brought home the expensive plant she had admired in the window while they were out for a stroll. Her eyes went to it now in its gorgeous copper container. The purchase of it had meant economizing for a month. And the other time, oh, it was so silly Kallie didn't even want to remember how cross she had been when Cliff paid thirty-five dollars for a fishing rod and reel. And then they hadn't been able to afford the trip! She could feel Cliff's arms tighten around her now. She pressed her head against his tweedy shoulder. She loved him so. There was nothing she wouldn't do for Cliff, no sacrifice she wouldn't make for him. But she had to make him realize how important it was to put this money in the bank. "Cliff—listen..."" she began. "Oh, no, you listen to me, sweetheart. Hear that musical ripple? That's mountain water bubbling over pretty rocks. Now look closely. See those shiny trout darting around down there? Um-m. Smell those big pine trees, and feel that good earth under your feet. We'll have one week of rest, melting in the bright Wyoming sunshine, fishing all day and eating at the Wagon Wheel Inn in the cool, cool evening. For seven long beautiful days we'll forget the budget and the stuffy office. Seven days of sun and stars and fishing. Boy, how we need it. No office routine, no dishes for you, no pinching pennies." "IT don't mind pinching pennies, Chiff," Kalle interrupted. Cliff patted her head. "You're sweet, Kal. Heard women complain." Kallie sat up. Her dark eyes were very bright. "Look here, Chiff Edwards. If you're planning a fishing trip because you think I'm tired of keeping house you're very wrong. Very wrong." He pulled her back into the circle of his arm. "Tm not through dreaming. Now look, pretend this is the menu at the Wagon Wheel Inn. Suppose we order trout for breakfast, and the lobster thermidor for luncheon and a big steak for dinner. Or would you like a salad with special sauce?" Kallie's mouth folded in. "If you don't mind," she said significantly, "I'd like the hundred dollar bill on the half-shell, just served plain as a nest egg, without sauce!" But I've THE HEAVENLY BONUS The silence was awful. Cliff drew his breath in and held it tightly. Then he leaned back against the lounge as though he was suddenly tired. Even his bright hair seemed to wilt down over his ears, and the gay, expectant twinkle went out of his eyes. "Say that again," he said. His voice was shocked and unbelieving like a little boy who has just been told that the circus isn't coming to town. I "Maybe I didn't hear you right, honey — the part about wanting it for a nest egg. Do you really mean it? Because if you do—it's all yours —you know that. Anything I have is yours—anytime." Kallie felt a stinging behind her eyes. But she was determined. One of them had to be sensible. "Oh, Cliff—it's just that I worry sometimes — because we're not saving anything." "We're keeping up insurance," he reminded her. "We're paying our tithing regularly. We're buying a bond—we're paying taxes. But if it's a nest egg you want—okay." Some of the blue sparkle came back to his eyes as he opened his wallet, took out the hundred dollar bill, and handed it to her. Kallie stared at the picture of Benjamin Franklin in the center of it. It's a brand new bill, she thought. No doubt this was only small change to Jasmine Clipper. She couldn't have known that it would be a small fortune to Kallie and Cliff—that it was the difference between living on a budget and being a young couple with money in the bank. "Well —it was fun, while it lasted," Cliff said as he stood up. He squared his shoulders and Kallie 591 noticed again how tired and shaggy he looked. "Brother!" he went on, "what a flop I'd be without my imagination! Now, tell me, what's for dinner? No." He put his hand up. "Don't tell me—let me guess...." He sniffed the air. "Sauerkraut and franks," he added, dismally. Kallie ignored the downbeat in his voice. She stood up, too, smoothing her hair. "And now let me tell you some big news,'she said spiritedly. "You are looking at the new captain of the Bay View Heart Drive, Mrs. Clifford B. Edwards—twice lieutenant, twice high score, and now captain. Beginning tomorrow Marge Johnson and I canvass our district." Cliff began to laugh.