[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
lliyi  CJather — .jL  cJrue  JLeader 
Birthday  Greetings  to  President  David  O.  McKay 
On  His  Eighty-Fourth  Birthday,  September  8,  1957 
Emma  Rae  McKay  Ashton 
PARENTS  of  the  Church  are  admonished  by  their  leaders  to  teach  the 
gospel  in  their  homes  and  to  direct  their  children  wisely  at  the 
critical  periods  of  their  lives.  Father,  I  appreciate  your  guidance  through- 
out my  life. 
It  seems  only  yesterday  that  I  pleaded  to  stay  home  from  the  kinder- 
garten class  in  Sunday  School.  You  smiled  and  explained  gently,  ''Oh, 
everyone  in  our  family  attends  Sunday  School  on  Sunday  morning.  Out 
of  the  seven  days  in  the  week,  this  first  one  belongs  to  the  Lord.  It  is 
different.  It  is  his  day— the  day  when,  fresh  and  clean,  your  hair  neatly 
curled,  and  wearing  your  best  shiny  shoes  and  crisp  frock,  you  honor  and 
worship  our  Heavenly  Father  in  his  house.  Your  spirit,  as  well  as  your 
body,  must  be  fed  to  become  the  lovely  thing  you  want  it  to  be." 
Needless  to  say,  after  that,  with  you  and  Mother  we  filed  happily  to 
Church.  After  Sunday  School,  permission  to  play  on  the  slide  and  swings 
in  the  park  we  knew  would  be  denied,  so  we  read  quietly,  or  visited  rela- 
tives. How  secure  a  small  child  feels  under  the  influence  of  parents  who 
live  with  a  purpose  and  point  the  way  of  truth  unwaveringly. 
Not  long  after  you  returned  from  your  mission  around  the  world, 
one  day  you  seated  me  beside  you  and  announced  that  it  was  time  that 
I  was  baptized.  ''Do  you  know  what  that  means,  Emma  Rae?  When  you 
are  immersed  in  the  water,  all  of  your  sins  are  washed  away.  You  emerge 
a  new  person  with  a  determination,  I  hope,  to  keep  your  life  clean  and 
sweet.  After  you  are  baptized,  you  v/ill  be  confirmed  a  member  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  receive  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  to  guide  you  in  choosing  the  right  when  temptation  confronts 
you." 
With  deep  appreciation,  I  recall  a  lesson  in  politeness  that  you 
taught  me.  Upon  request,  I  arose  from  the  dinner  table  to  cut  more 
bread.  Returning,  and  before  placing  the  bread  on  the  table,  I  helped 
myself  to  a  slice.  All  you  said  was,  "Always  serve  yourself  last.  Be  mind- 
ful of  others  first."  That  was  enough.  Although  you  said  no  more  than 
that,  from  then  on,  this  lesson  in  courtesy  was  reinforced  and  indelibly 
stamped  upon  my  mind  by  your  daily  practice  of  it. 
Often  you  counseled,  "It  is  the  little  things  in  life  that  count— the 
habitual  use  of  'please,'  'thank  you,'  and  'pardon  me,'  that  are  im- 
portant." Sometimes,  when  our  play  was  tense  and  our  voices  became 
shrill,  you  quoted  King  Lear's  eulogy  to  Cordelia  to  quiet  us:  "Her  voice 
was  ever  soft,  gentle,  and  low,  an  excellent  thing  in  woman." 
Page  573

574  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1957 
Problems  confront  teenagers  whose  professors  attempt  in  various  ways 
to  encourage  disbelief  in  Christ's  teachings.  One  day  I  was  perturbed  over 
the  explanation  in  a  university  class  that  a  separate  spirit  leaving  the  body 
and  ascending  to  heaven  is  inconceivable.  The  professor  illustrated  his 
point  with  an  analogy— comparing  the  body  with  the  mechanism  of  a 
watch.  When  the  mainspring  of  the  watch  breaks  or  important  parts  fail 
to  function,  the  ticking  stops.  When  the  human  heart  ceases  beating, 
the  body  dies.  Your  decisive  answer  strengthened  my  testimony.  *'Your 
professor  forgets  that  the  intelligence  behind  that  watch  still  lives,  and 
will  go  on  living.  Life  is  eternal."  You  explained  that  intelligence  never 
was  created  nor  can  be;  that  heavenly  parents  created  spiritual  bodies  in 
which  the  organized  intelligences  could  dwell;  and  that  the  spirit  bodies 
are  permitted  to  be  born  into  earthly  bodies.  By  obeying  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  and  exercising  self-control,  we  keep  unsullied  the  earthly  taber- 
nacles of  our  eternal  spirits. 
''A  true  leader,"  a  noted  educator  defined,  ''possesses  two  outstanding 
qualities:  first,  consideration  for  the  welfare  of  others;  and  second,  the 
ability  to  help  people  understand  their  assignments."  These  qualities  in  you 
are  evident  in  your  piloting  of  this  great  Church.  Your  love,  sympathetic 
understanding,  and  deep  concern  for  the  happiness  of  members  of  the 
Church,  and  your  wisdom  in  counseling  and  interpreting  life's  purposes 
to  your  people  have  endeared  you  forever  in  their  hearts. 
L^ooi  (^rove  of  JLanguage 
Dorothy  ].  Roheits 
I  walked  the  cool  grove  of  language 
For  healing;  through  untoned  reams 
Of  silence,  for  a  faith. 
I  moved  down  the  long  corridors 
Of  men's  thinking  and  was  assuaged. 
For  through  all  the  groves  stirred 
The  whisper  of  God's  voice, 
Root  and  bud  .  .  .  common  to  all. 
I  walked  the  cool  grove  of  language 
And  in  the  green  forest  of  words 
Found  my  heart  made  whole.

Free  Agency 
Henry  D.  MoyJe 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve  (Joshua  24:15). 
THIS  was  the  call  of  a  great 
prophet  of  God  to  his  people, 
to  exercise  their  free  agency. 
So  has  it  been  in  all  generations  of 
time.      Indeed,    our    free    agency 
reaches  into  the  eternities. 
Heaven  wills  our  happiness,  allows  our 
doom    (Young,  Night  Thoughts). 
We  often  have  occasion  to  repeat 
with  approval  the  poetic  words  of 
William  C.  Gregg: 
Know  this,  that  every  soul  is  free 
To  choose  his  life  and  what  he'll  be, 
For  this  eternal  truth  is  given 
That  God  will  force  no  man  to  heaven. 
He'll  call,  persuade,  direct  aright. 
And  bless  with  wisdom,  love,  and  light, 
In  nameless  ways  be  good  and  kind, 
But  never  force  the  human  mind. 
These  poetic  words  portray  the 
author's  deep  insight  into  the  in- 
herent power  of  man.  By  and 
through  the  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty, it  is  written: 
Now  there  was  no  law  against  a  man's 
belief;  for  it  was  strictly  contrary  to  the 
commands  of  God  that  there  should  be 
a  law  which  should  bring  men  on  to  un- 
equal ground  (Alma  30:7). 
Free  agency  is  a  godly  attribute 
in  which  we  share  as  his  children. 
It  is  our  most  priceless  heritage. 
Like  all  other  endowments  from  on 
high,  to  benefit  by  it,  we  must  exert 
ourselves.  Stamped  indelibly  on  the 
minds  of  Latter-day  Saints,  is  this 
truth: 
'The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence/' 
We  are  limited  in  the  exercise  of 
our  free  agency  by  the  extent  or 
degree  of  our  intelligence.  Joshua's 
choice  of  whom  he  would  serve  was 
an  intelligent  choice.  He  knew  the 
alternatives  when  he  chose  the  God 
of  Israel.  He  realized  that  man 
could  not  be  saved  in  ignorance. 
Throughout  the  history  of  the  world, 
it  is  the  ignorant  who  have  been 
oppressed  and  deprived  to  the  great- 
est extent  of  their  liberty.  It  stands 
to  reason  that  such  a  great  gift  from 
God  entails  equally  great  responsi- 
bilities upon  the  part  of  the  recip- 
ient. We  do  not  merit  possession 
of  this  great  gift  unless  we  use  it 
intelligently  and  beneficially.  For 
this  power  of  free  agency  to  be 
functional,  there  must  needs  be  a 
choice. 
And  men  are  instructed  sufficiently  that 
they  know  good  from  evil  ...   (2  Nephi 
For  it  must  needs  be,  that  there  is  an 
opposition  in  all  things.  If  not  so  .  .  . 
righteousness  could  not  be  brought  to 
pass,  neither  wickedness,  neither  holiness 
nor  misery,   neither  good   nor  bad.   .    .   . 
And  if  ye  shall  say  there  is  no  law,  ye 
shall  also  say  there  is  no  sin.  If  ye  shall 
say  there  is  no  sin,  ye  shall  also  say  there 
is  no  righteousness.  And  if  there  be  no 
righteousness  there  be  no  happiness.  And 
if  there  be  no  righteousness  nor  happiness 
there  be  no  punishment  nor  misery.  And 
if  these  things  are  not  there  is  no 
God  ...  (2  Nephi,  2:11,  13). 
Page  575