[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Home | Title: Recipes From the Southern Far East Mission | Author: Luana C. Heaton]
RECIPES  FROM  THE  SOUTHERN  FAR  EAST  MISSION  603 
Shanghai  Spring  Rolls 
8  large  mushrooms,  fresh,  dried,  or  i  tbsp.  ginger,  chopped  fine 
canned  Vi  lb.  lean  ground  pork,  dredged  with: 
1  onion,  chopped  fine  3  tbsp.  soy  sauce 
Vi    can  bamboo  shoots  1  tbsp.  salt 
Vi   lb.  bean  sprouts  1  tbsp.  cornstarch 
Cut  bamboo  shoots  and  mushrooms  and  saute  them.  Then  add  the  soy  sauce. 
Saute   onions.      Saute    the    pork   with    the    vegetables    and    add    the   ginger.      Spread 
1  Vi  tbsp.  of  the  pork  and  vegetable  mixture  on  a  pancake.    Fold  sides  and  roll,  moisten- 
ing the  edges  with  water  to  hold  them  together.     Fry  the  rolls  in  deep  fat  until  brown. 
Pancake  Batter 
6  eggs  (beaten)  2  c.  flour 
2  c.  water  1  tsp.  salt 
Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  water,  flour,  and  1  tsp.  salt.  Heat  a  small  frying  pan  with 
V2  tbsp.  oil;  pour  a  very  small  amount  of  batter  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  The 
pancake  should  be  very,  very  thin,  it  should  cook  less  than  a  minute,  only  long  enough 
to  set.    Continue  until  the  desired  number  of  pancakes  is  reached.     Serves  6. 
Formosan  Pork 
Vi   lb.  pork,  cut  in  small  pieces  1  tbsp.  ginger,  chopped  fine 
3  onions,  chopped  fine  1  tsp.  sugar 
Vi   head  cabbage,  finely  shredded  pinch  of  salt 
3  green  peppers,  cut  in  small  pieces  3  tbsp.  oil 
3  tbsp.  soy  sauce 
Heat  oil  in  pan;  add  meat  and  onions.  Fry  until  well  done.  Add  soy  sauce  and 
cabbage;  cook  until  cabbage  is  done.  Add  ginger,  peppers,  salt,  and  sugar.  Serve 
over  hot  rice.    Serves  6. 
Fish  a  La  Mindanao 
2  lbs.  fish  (white)  2  medium  tomatoes 
Vi  c.  salad  oil  1  tsp.  Spanish  pepper 
1  clove  garlic  1  egg 
1  medium  onion,  cut  in  small  pieces  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Cut  fish  in  individual  pieces  and  deep  fry  until  golden  brown.  Make  sauce:  mince 
garlic,  add  onions  and  cubed  tomatoes,  boil  the  vegetables  in  1  c.  water  until  soft. 
Press  through  a  sieve.  Add  1  beaten  egg  to  liquid.  Simmer  until  the  liquid  thickens. 
Pour  over  fried  fish.    Serve  8. 
Sweet-Sour  Fish 
3  lbs.  fish  (white)  2  tbsp.  cornstarch 
3  c.  oil  ^  tbsp.  soy  sauce 
3  tbsp.  oil  2  c.  mild  vinegar 
1  c.  sugar  1  large  onion,  chopped  fine 
cornstarch  paste  3  tbsp.  chopped  ginger 
Clean  fish;  make  diagonal  slashes  on  each  side,  leaving  the  flesh  adhering  to  the 
bones.  Dredge  well  with  the  cornstarch  paste.  Heat  pan,  add  3  tbsp.  oil,  hold  the 
fish  over  the  pan  of  deep  fat,  and  baste  the  slashes  with  the  hot  oil  until  brown,  then 
fry  in  deep  fat  until  crisp.  Prepare  sweet-sour  sauce  by  mixing  oil,  sugar,  cornstarch, 
soy  sauce,  and  vinegar.  Add  onions  and  ginger  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  Pour  over 
fish.    Serves  6.

604  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1957 
Recipes  from  Guam 
Submitted  by  Helen  Bateman 
GuAMANiAN  Fried  Chicken 
1  chicken  i  -  2  c.  vinegar 
1  large  onion  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  clove  garlic 
Lay  the  pieces  of  the  cut-up  chicken  in  a  bowl.  Cover  each  layer  with  thin  slices 
of  onion,  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  garlic.  Pour  vinegar  over  all.  Occasionally,  tumble 
the  chicken  through  the  vinegar.  Marinate  overnight  (about  i8  hours).  Drain  chicken 
and  fry  in  deep  fat  until  crisp  and  brown.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 
GuYORiA  (Coconut  Doughnuts) 
2  c.  coconut  milk  flour 
1   c.  sugar  coconut  oil 
Vz   c.  water  powdered  sugar 
Add  sugar  to  coconut  milk.  Then  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll 
into  balls  the  size  of  marbles.  They  are  also  nice  elongated.  Fry  in  coconut  oil  until 
brown  or  dccp-fat  fry  in  other  oil  or  fat.  Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  bv  combining 
Yi  c.  water  and  i  c.  sugar.  Drop  the  balls  into  the  syrup  and  remove  immediately  and 
then  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 
In  making  coconut  milk,  grate  the  meat  of  a  medium-ripe  coconut.  Add  about 
2  c.  water.  Mix  water  with  coconut  and  then  pick  up  a  handful  and  squeeze  milk  into 
another  bowl.  Continue  until  the  coconut  is  dry.  The  coconut  may  then  be  dried 
or  toasted  and  used  in  other  cooking. 
ROSQUETTE 
Vi   c.  shortening  i  tsp.  salt 
i  V4   c.  sugar  3  tbsp.  baking  powder 
3/4   c.  cornstarch  1  tbsp.  lemon 
2  eggs  1  tbsp.  vanilla  or  1  tbsp  anise 
1  c.  flour    ■>.  ■' 
Cream  shortening  and  add  sugar  and  continue  creaming.  Add  eggs  and  beat  until 
creamy.  Add  flavoring.  Sift  cornstarch,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  and  add 
the  sifted  dry  ingredients  to  creamed  mixture,  a  little  at  a  time.  Roll  into  balls  about 
1  Vi  inches  in  diameter  and  until  about  5  inches  in  length.  Take  each  end  and  bring 
around  toward  you  into  a  pretzel  shape.  Bake  in  a  300°  oven  until  golden  brown 
about  20  to  25  minutes.  Cool  until  crisp  in  pan.  Remove  and  store  in  tight  can.  (In 
a  cold  climate  milk  may  be  added  to  make  the  dough  soft  enough  to  roll.) 
Qynlii  cJhese 
Mabel  Jones  Gabbott 
There  was  the  day  we  found  the  coral  rock, 
The  day  we  ran  barefoot  the  sea-walled  walk, 
Then  came  the  night  and  stars  were  doublecast 
In  sea  and  velvet  arc;  those  days  are  past. 
Where  you  walk  now,  I  no  longer  know; 
And  I  mislaid  the  coral  long  ago. 
....  Only  these  remain  for  me: 
The  velvet  stars,  the  sea,  and  memory.

For  This  I  Have  Yearned 
Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
^^'TPHERE  now,  Michael  John 
Terrance,  Junior,  I  think  you 
look  handsome  enough  to  please 
Michael  John,  Senior,  when  he 
comes  home,  don't  you?  You  know 
I  believe  you  and  I  together  will 
make  a  rather  pleasing  picture  to 
greet  your  father  on  this  very  spe- 
cial occasion." 
Margaret  Terrance,  who  ten  min- 
utes before  had  been  hoping  and 
even  praying  that  the  children 
would  stay  asleep  until  after  Michael 
came,  so  she  could  be  looking  her 
very  prettiest  to  greet  him,  held  her 
small  son  at  arm's  length  as  she 
continued,  'Yes,  you  will  do  nicely 
with  your  hair  combed  and  your 
face  shining.  In  fact  you  are  ador- 
able, Michael  John,  Junior." 
"I'm  Mickey,  Mother.  Don't  you 
know?" 
'Yes,  darling,  you  are  Mickey; 
but  you  are  also  Michael  John  Ter- 
rance, Junior."  She  gave  him  an 
impulsive  hug  and  continued,  ''And 
at  three-going-on-four,  you  are  a 
small  replica  of  your  father." 
"What  does  ph'ca  mean.  Mother?" 
"It  means  that  you  and  Daddy 
are  alike  as  two  peas,  though  one  is 
small  and  one  is  large." 
Before  another  question  was  forth- 
coming, Margaret  held  little  Mich- 
ael close  and  said,  "Grow  up  to  be 
just  like  Daddy,  won't  you  darling? 
Just  like  him  in  every  little  way." 
"I  will.  I  love  Daddy,  too, 
Mother." 
"Now  let's  finish  our  preparations. 
Everything  must  be  perfect  for 
Daddy  tonight.  If  only  Tommy  and 
the  twins  will  stay  asleep.   You  see 
I  must  get  fixed  up  pretty,  too." 
"You  are  always  pretty.  Mother." 
"Thank  you,  Mickey;  but  even 
you  must  admit  I'm  prettier  some- 
times than  others.  And  this  must 
be  one  of  the  times  when  I'm  pretti- 
est. New  you  sit  in  the  big  rocker 
and  look  at  your  picture  book  while 
I  make  myself  beautiful.  Daddy 
mustn't  miss  too  much  not  getting 
a  gift  this  year." 
At  that  moment  a  cry  from  the 
bedroom  told  her  that  the  baby  had 
awakened  sooner  than  usual  from 
his  afternoon  sleep. 
"Oh,  dear,  just  when  I  needed 
time  more  than  anything  else! 
Mickey,  can  you  be  Mother's  big 
man  and  rock  the  cradle?  Perhaps 
Tommy  will  go  back  to  sleep  and 
not  waken  the  twins." 
"Sure,  Mother.  I  know  how  to 
rock  the  cradle." 
Soon  Margaret  heard  the  gentle 
rhythmic  creak  of  the  loved  old 
cradle  that  had  soothed  all  her 
mother's  babies,  and  the  cries  ceased. 
She  took  one  last  inspection  of 
the  table,  set  in  the  dining  room  for 
the  occasion,  and  decided  it  was  per- 
fect. She  smiled,  knowing  Michael 
would  exclaim,  "My,  my,  the  pretti- 
est cake  ever!"  when  he  saw  the 
white-frosted  creation  with  "Happy 
Anniversary"  done  in  tiny  pink 
flowers,  with  five  pink  candles  in 
the  center. 
Then  she  slipped  quickly  into  her 
prettiest  afternoon  frock,  patted  her 
curls  in  place,  and  she  was  ready 
with  about  ten  minutes  to  spare 
before  Michael  w^ould  arrive. 
She  was  congratulating  herself  on 
Page  605