[Vol44 | September 1957 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Romney]
The Bright Star Chapter 7 (Conclusion ) Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Kathy Tracy, an orphan who wishes to become an artist, lives with her Aunt Emerald Jewel Tracy in an old-fashioned house overlooking San Francisco Bay. She had planned to accept an office position offered her by a neighbor and friend of the family, Phineas Fenton, but her Aunt Em suffers a partial stroke, and Kathy remains at home to care for hetr.. During her illness Aunt Em mentions something about a sea chest in the China house and a Bright Star, which Kathy believes may hold the secret of her parentage. Her romance with Jim Parker finally comes to an end when Jim becomes interested in Lina Carlson, a neighbor, and decides to marry her. In the meantime, Mare Hale, a stranger, rents the China house and gives Kathy encouragement in the painting of a picture which she intends to enter in an art scholarship contest. One day, during Marc's absence from the China house, Kathy finds the Bright Star, an intricately embossed locket which contains the pictures of Marie and Phineas Fenton, Jr., whom Kathy decides are her parents. ATHY found Aunt Em sitK ting exactly where she had left her. She hung her slightly damp jacket over the back of a chair to dry. "Well," she said, "I go back to work at twelve o'clock tomorrow morning." Aunt Em made no reply to this, but instead she looked at Kathy closely, then said, "Sit down, my dear, I must tell you something. Something I should have told you years ago." She took a deep breath and went on. "I had dreamed such wonderful dreams for my girl —college, a career, a good marriage. I've failed you dreadfully." She paused, then Page 608 began again, "But you'll have your chance," she said with apparent tremendous effort, "Phineas is rich When I tell him." The girl was on her knees in front of her aunt, her arms about her. "I know, Aunt Em," she said quietly, "IT know I'm Phineas Fenton's granddaughter. Imagine... All that money, just sitting there... And the way you've struggled to support me! But why? Doesn't he like me?" Aunt Em squeezed Kathy's shoulders, and then withdrew her hand to search in her pocket for a handkerchief. "He doesn't know," she said, almost inaudibly. "He doesn't even know he had a grandchild. Oh, darling, I'm so sorry I've deprived you of all the privileges you should have had!" Kathy drew back and looked up at her aunt, wide-eyed. "Deprived me!" she repeated. "Why, Aunt Em, I wouldn't exchange one minute of the love you've given me for all the money in the world. But it just doesn't seem right for you to have worked so hard for me when I don't even belong to you really." "You do belong, dear, you've been my whole life! I don't know how much of the story you've heard, but your parents made Grandfather Tracy... My father, promise to take care of you in case anything should ever happen to them. They wanted to be sure you were brought up in the Church. You see, Grand- THE BRIGHT STAR father Tracy converted your father, and your mother was already a member. Phineas would never talk religion with father," she added reeretfully. "But now you're grown up, and I know nothing could shake your faith, and it's time you had some of the material advantages you're entitled to. Besides, maybe time has softened Phineas a_ little." ATHY got up and walked around for a minute to restore the circulation to her cramped legs. "You don't mean you want me to go to live with the Fentons?" she asked. Aunt Em wiped her eyes. "I'm afraid Phineas will insist, when he knows who you are, and it wouldn't be night not to tell him, now. But it was right, in the beginning!" "Yes, of course,' agreed ey; "Better that one man perish. Not that you could exactly say Phineas has perished for not knowing I was his granddaughter, but it's sort of the same idea. It seems incredible—here I've lived all my life within shouting distance of him, and neither of us knew we were related! From the picture, I'd say I resemble my mother." "The very oo Aunt Em said. "Except the chin... You do have the Fenton chin." There was so much to assimilate... SO many new ideas to consider, that Kathy felt that her brain was reeling. She shuddered to think how different, how empty her life would have been without the gospel, and how much more alone she would have felt, if she hadn't known her parents had been married in the temple, and that some day they 609 would all be together again. 'The Fentons were fine people, but they had no religion at all. "As long as our chins match... Mine and Grandpa Fenton's," Kathy said, smiling, "I guess I can insist just as hard that I won't go. Tl never leave you, darling. Now you really should get some rest." "I am a little tired,' Miss Em agreed, trying to cover a yawn. "But there's one more thing I must tell you did you know Marc is a member of the Church? 'That's how he happened to learn about the China house... When he first came here he asked Bishop Henderson if he knew of an inexpensive cabin he could get for a few months. I had a long talk with the bishop the other night by telephone. He told me Marc had filled a very outstanding mission in New Zealand," she ended on a note of satisfaction. Kathy's breath caught inher throat. "I guess I'm not really surprised, though," she said, "I always thought he looked and acted like a Latter-day Saint, in spite of the fact that he was a bit difficult at first." Her heart was pounding delightfully. "We'll talk about him later you must lie down right this minute!"' UNT Em had scarcely gone to sleep when Marc arrived with the late afternoon edition of the paper. He was jubilant. "Congratulations, Kathy, you've won the art contest!" he exclaimed. He indicated a column at the bottom of the page. "Third prize." She read the item slowly. By the time she finished, the tears were rolling down her cheeks unashamedly. 610 Marc looked at her, amazement written on his face. "I thought you'd be overjoyed, but these can't be tears of joy, they're too real looking. See here," he said, "dry those tears. You're a big girl now, you must be all of eighteen." "Nineteen," corrected Kathy, through her tears, "yesterday." She suddenly realized that for the first time both she and Eunt Em had completely forgotten her birthday. "Why didn't someone tell me?" cried Marc. "Birthdays are my specialty. Anyway, there's no use mourning. We'll go into town tonight and have dinner and see a show. 'Take Aunt Em with us. How does that strike you?" "Fine," agreed Kathy, her eyes sparkling again. "Aunt Em _ will love it. She hasn't been out for months. But it's the prize I'm disappointed in—it's a year's schooling instead of cash, and now I won't be able to take Aunt Em on that trip I'd planned." Marc looked down at her. "But you won't need the contest money. You're Phineas Fenton's — granddaughter, and he has plenty of money. Surely you've made your decision by now." His voice was tense. Kathy took stock of this fact soberly. She had never before stopped to analyze her feelings clearly. Her heart seemed to be opening, more and more surely each moment, toward a new meaning in life. And that transformation in her heart wasn't taking place by itself, she was sure. It had been brought on by Marc Hale. She knew now where her place in life was intended to be. Besides, she thought, I'm not good enough to become an artist, not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 dedicated enough. I'll never be good enough. Aloud she said, "My place right now is with Aunt Em—tright now, and always. It's what I want." Marc smiled at her, satisfaction in his eyes. "What will you do?" she asked suddenly. EF, flushed, apparently caught off guard. "I why I've just been choking over a large piece of humble pie. Your earnest little soul will be delighted to know that I'm going into Dad's business in San Francisco, now that I'm fully recovered. He's going to let me start at the bottom and work up, which is far better than I deserve since he offered me the chance once before, and I turned it down. Now aren't you satisfied?" Satisfied? She asked herself, and suddenly knew that her heart had been longing to know what his dreams or plans might hold in the way of including her. "Aren't you satisfied?" he repeated. "No, I'm not," she said. She turned away to hide the trembling of her chin. "I'm not at all satisfied." "Kathy, darling," he said, as he gently turned her around and lifted her face so he could look into her eyes. "Kathy, do you love me?" "Of course I do," she whispered. She felt his arms around her. "I was stupid enough to think you'd choose to live in the house on the hill, darling, where you could have anything you wanted, and then you wouldn't have been my girl at all. The Kathy I love is right here in the old gray house, and will re- THE BRIGHT STAR main here, if she can make room in her heart and home for a husband." "Marc, Marc," she murmured. They wandered hand in hand from the shelter of the house down toward the beach. 'There was a lifetime of each other's thoughts and feelings to learn about. 611 It seemed hours later that Kathy said, "We're being selfish. Let's hurry and tell Aunt Em about us." The stars had come out, and the night was fresh-washed and _ beautiful. They walked up the path to the old gray house, where the lights were already challenging the lowering night. Dora Jolley Pursues a Hobby of Handwork [ truly can be said that Dora Jolley, eighty, of Blackfoot, Idaho, has spent many hours during her life to make others happy. She is still making beautiful gifts for her friends and relatives. She has made at least one hundred beautiful quilts and has given them away and has crocheted eight bedspreads and six tablecloths of the finest thread, besides having made hundreds of doilies and potholders, afghans, pillows, and pillow cases. She has been active in Church work, especially Relief Society. During the last years her health hasn't permitted her to take an active part, but she contributes of her fancy work. Sister Jolley is the mother of six living children, twenty-two grandchildren, and twenty-five great-grandchildren. (fc {xotes I] Rom Tae recy General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Luana C. Heaton SOUTHERN FAR EAST MISSION, FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY HELD IN CHINA First row, left to right: Sister Wan; Miss Wan; Mrs. Tze; Mrs. Wise; Sister Loh; Leta Jane Clegg, President. Second row: Luana C. Heaton, President, Southern Far East Mission Relief Society; Sister Liang; Mrs. Fook; Mrs. Chaw; Mrs. Cheung; Myrna Pollock, Second Counselor. Third row: Doris Robinson, First Counselor; Mrs. Lum; Sister Wong; Sister Tong; Sister Fung; Betty Johnson. Fourth row: Sister Yicn; Mrs. Young; Mrs. Loke; Mrs. Chiw; Mrs. Wong Ching Yee; Mrs. Mak Mie Tin. Sister Heaton writes that it is the Chinese custom for women to use their maiden names which, she says, "would be too long to print." Therefore, she has written their husbands' last names. Those women who are investigating the Church have Mrs. Or Miss prefixing their names. Page 612 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 613 Photograph submitted by Melba H. Tullis ASHLEY STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT TWO SESSIONS OF FIRST STAKE CONFERENCE, March 31, 1957 Twila Abbott, director, and Mary Schaefermeyer, organist, are seated on the front row at the right. Melba H. Tullis, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports that the Ashley Stake Relief Society began to function on January 1, 1957. Photograph submitted by Myrtle George LAS VEGAS STAKE (NEVADA), LAS VEGAS NINTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY TAKES PRIDE IN ITS YOUNG MOTHER MEMBERS Myrtle George, President, Las Vegas Stake Relief Society, writes: '""This Ninth Ward of the Las Vegas Stake is the youngest ward. They feel very proud of their young mothers shown in the front row. 'These mothers attend regularly. Three new babies have been added since the picture was taken. La Fond Solomon is president; Meriam Belmont, first counselor; Aleline Hatch, second counselor; Lottie Wollengien, secretary-treasurer. The ward has an attendance of from twenty-five to thirty preschool children who are cared for by a baby sitter." 614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Florence Christiansen BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO), SEVENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS PAGEANT "CHARACTERS AND TEACHINGS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON" Front row, seated, left to right: Elizabeth Thorton, theology class leader and director of the pageant; Winifred Young, President, Seventh Ward Relief Society; Luella 'Thompson, organist. (Verda Bale, chorister, not present. ) Standing at the left, next to Sister Thorton: Lorain Turner, as a Japanese sister. Back row, standing, left to right: Bishop DeVon Woodland as Moroni; John Olsen as Nephi; John Yancy as King Benjamin; Florence Woodland, as a Jewish woman; Lavina Eggleston, as a Lamanite sister; Archie Bale, as Mormon. Photograph submitted by Rachael L. Lee FRENCH MISSION, SWISS DISTRICT, GENEVA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY SUNDAY EVENING PROGRAM, March 3, 1957 Front row, seated, left to right: Sister Curtenaz, District President; Sister Stouder, Geneva Branch Secretary; Sister Jaque, President, Geneva Branch Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Sister Bonny; Sister Charney; Sister Wright, mis- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 615 sionary; Sister Dupanloup; Sister Marlyse Bonny; Sister Olmo; Sister Brown, Second Counselor, Geneva Branch Relief Society; Sister Scheren, First Counselor; Sister Lamborn, missionary; Sister France Rimli; Sister Hope Reeder; Sister Rimli; Sister Schmit; Sister Walz; Sister Moine; Sister Nicolet; Sister Chambaz; Miss Cortisy, visitor. Rachael 'L. Lee, President, French Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Swiss District of the French Mission is supervised by a president who loves Relief Society and is devoted to her work. This picture was taken after the Sunday evening program, in which all of the Relief Society members took part." RS eee: Ms MT RRR IR Photograph submitted by Ida M. Swensen YELLOWSTONE STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS "CHARACTERS AND TEACHINGS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON" PAGEANT, May 26, 1957 Seated at the table, left to right: Chee Fujimoto; Millie B. Farrimond, stake theology leader; Mary Powless; Sylvia Linford. Seated at their right, Stake Relief Society Presidency: Vera B. Young, Second Counselor; Ida M. Swensen, President; Elsie R. Lewis, First Counselor. Front row, standing: Rulon Powell; E. O. Rich; Robert Archibald; Richard Tyler; Floyd Law; Orien Lamoreoux as Mormon; Darrell Lords as King Benjamin; Vincent Birch as Alma; Milo Price as Nephi; William J. Lewis, President of Yellowstone Stake; Edgar O. Westerberg, First Counselor, Stake Presidency; 'Therel Ricks, stake Relief Society organist; Beth T. Orme, Stake Relief Society chorister; Alta Murdoch; Blanche Edington; Denice Parker; Salome Mathie; Brother and Sister Robert Foster. Lowell Dayton who represented the voice of the Savior, and Leo Packer who represented Moroni, are not shown. Sister Swensen reports that about eighty-five Singing Mothers participated in the event. 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Lola Green EAST PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS MUSICAL PAGEANT Lola Green, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society, writes: "A musical pageant, 'I Now Turn the Key' was presented by the East Phoenix Stake Relief Society, May 11, 1957. 'The Singing Mothers also furnished the music for conference May 25,1957." Second row, center to right: Lola Green; Avon Price, stake chorister; Junius Driggs, President of East Phoenix Stake. BSE % DS Photograph submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham SOUTH AUSTRALIAN MISSION, VICTORIA DISTRICT, MELBOURNE AND COBURG BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETIES PRESENT PAGEANT "PORTRAIT OF A DREAM" Front row, seated, left to right: Ina Ware, First Counselor; Flora Carthew, Secretary; Deborah Tormey, Second Counselor; Mary Thatcher, chorister—all from the Coburg Branch. Marjorie Davis, President; Jean Findlay, Secretary; Joyce Scarfe; Valerie Croucher, First Counselor; Phyll Roche, chorister; Grace Bartlett, Magazine representative—all from the Melbourne Branch Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 617 Back row, standing, left to right: Arlette Anderson; Lottie Laird; Raie Headen; Hazel Gilchrist, work meeting leader; Clarice Williams, President of Coburg Branch Relief Society, and First Assistant in Victoria District; Adelphia D. Bingham, President, South Australian Mission Relief Society, holding the American flag; Edna Ord, Mission Relief Society Secretary and District Supervisor; Laurel Marsh; Evelyn Hugett; Linda Lucknovitch. Not present when the picture was taken: Alvie Pemberton, representing General President Belle S. Spafford; and Eric Croucher, narrator. Sister Bingham reports that the painting in the center of the picture is a replica of the cover of the December 1956 Relief Society Magazine, which was painted by Clarice Williams. "The painting is most remarkable, although, unfortunately, it does not show to advantage in the photograph." Sister Bingham further comments: "This program was well presented, as were many others throughout the Mission. We are proud of those who worked so faithfully to make them successful." ei Photograph submitted by Alice L. Wilkinson BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY STAKE, (PROVO, UTAH), SEVENTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAKES ORIGINAL QUILT Left to right: Bonnie Berrett, President; Mary Utschig, Secretary-Treasurer; JoAnn Larsen and Sharon Jensen, Counselors; Beverly Liebhart, work director. Alice L. Wilkinson, President, Brigham Young University Stake Relief Society, reports: "Young Relief Society sisters from the B. Y. U. Seventeenth Ward display quilt of original design which was quilted at recent work meeting.

"The Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, one of the unique groups of young student members on the Brigham Young University campus, have tried to follow the pattern set for them by experienced women in Relief Society work. 'The animal quilt was made at work meetings. For most of the girls it was their first quilting experience.. The quilt will be given to a former homemaking teacher, Mrs, Deanna Thomas of Rome, Colorado," 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Agnes D. Hurst SAN JUAN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE FOR TWO CONSECUTIVE YEARS ON MOTHER'S DAY Agnes D. Hurst, President, San Juan Stake Relief Society, reports: "The San Juan Stake Singing Mothers group has presented the music for the past two years at the quarterly stake conference which has been on Mother's Day both years. Sisters Vera Lee Redd and Guen L. Smith are directors. Sisters Mary L. Adams and Margaret P. Redd, accompanists." My Husband s Hands Marie Ricks Hands, large, grown used To wielding a hammer, Dry our little one's tears In the tenderest manner. Strong, capable hands Pounding nails, lifting lumber, In the gentlest way Soothe our infant to slumber. Steady hands, that remove With such careful ease, Slivers that lodge in Small, skinned-up knees.