CONVENTION.

	EDITORS' JOURNAL:—An article in your
issue of June 1, contains a mistake which
demands correction, a mistake which may
mislead future history. Whether the first
"Woman's Rights Convention the world
ever knew" was held in New York State
is beyond my knowledge. But the first one
that I ever heard of was at Seneca Falls,
Seneca Co., N. Y., called by Lucretia Mott,
Elizabeth C. Stanton, Amelia Bloomer, and
others, in 1848.
	The first State Convention in Ohio was
in the spring of 1850, called by J. Elizabeth
Jones, Marianna Johnson, (wife of Oliver
Johnson) Marius Robinson and Emily Rob-
inson, Betsey Coles, Mary Gove and others,
at which I was not even present.
	I should have mentioned, in its right
place, that a four-column report of the Sa-
lem Convention was written by Oliver
Johnson, then editor of the "Anti Slavery
Bugle." which Horace Greeley received
and gladly published in full. This report
brought out, as her own words testify, in
the earlier pamphlets, the able essay of
Mrs. Stuart Mill on the "Enfranchisement
of Women."
	And here permit me to offer a merited
tribute to one of the earliest and strongest
of our noble band of pioneers.
	In the autumn of that year, the New Eng-
land women called a like Convention at
Worceter, Mass., which was largely attend-
ed and ably carried on by the prominent
reformers, women and men, of that day.
Lucy Stone, Paulina Wright Davis, Mrs. C.
I. H. Nichols, Abby K. Foster, also Wen-
dell Phillips, Elizabeth Oakes Smith, An-
toinette L. Brown, Harriott K. Hunt, Wil-
liam H. Cha[---]g, and numerous bright
lights of that time.
	In the spring of 1851, the Akron Con-
vention was called, at which I was present,
but had no other part in calling or carrying
it on, that I now remember, except being
its chosen president, and doing my ignor-
ant best in that capacity.
	Mrs. J. G. Swisshelm, Mrs. Celia Burr,
(afterwards our beloved C. M. Burleigh,)
Miss Sarah Coates, Mrs. C. M. Severance,
Mrs. H. M. Tracy (now Mrs. Cutler), Mrs.
Judge Tilden, Mary T. Corney, Mrs. Emma
R. Coe, and Sojourner Truth, with others
who called the Convention of 1850, made
the Convention brilliant and successful.
Four of the Hutchinson family, aided with
their stirring songs. Judson, John, Jesse
and Asa helped to fill the church, and many
young ears learned new gospels of liberty
never after forgotten.
	I earnestly wish some ready pen and good
memory would reproduce, with all their in-
terest, those early efforts in the great work
of equalizing the rights of the sexes. The
day will come when they will be called for.
A more clear, concise and full statement of
the disabilities of women under the law
was never given than the address of Mrs.
Jane Elizabeth Jones, made at the first Wo-
man's Rights Convention in Ohio, in 1850.
	FRANCES D. GAGE.
Vineland, N. J.—"Woman's Journal."


To Remove Iron Mold: Wet the spot; lay it
over, a hot-water plate, or strain it over a basin
with hot water in it; put a little salts of lemon on
the spot; wash it as soon as the spot is removed.


[Column 1]
