MORAL COURAGE IN WOMEN.

	What a vast amount of courage is needed in
the warfare of life. The various conditions
and circumstances incident to an experience
here, call for strength of character and firmness;
and in addition to these characteristics, one
must possess a certain ingredient which can
be defined by no other name than courage.
There are sure to be many occasions in which
this attribute must be called into exercise, or
the person would shrink from performing ur-
gent duties, and be fit only to sit in a retreat
some stronger arm had prepared, without suffi-
cient heroism to face the battle of life, while
some one possessing true moral courage goes
forth to do battle for them with the stern reali-
ties of the world. Courage is considered one
of the principal elements in the nature of man.
Most people seem to think women are very
deficient in this respect; the assertion has been
made so often, that it has resolved itself into
what is taken as testimony by the majority,
and yet thousands of instances might be cited,
to prove that women bravely face difficulties
and misfortunes with strong and firm confi-
dence, while men, with all their boasted superior-
ity of conrage, retreat, leaving the weak to the
rescue.
	How often do we see strong men leave deli-
cate women to face unpleasant phases of life
alone, while they run away, to avoid bearing
their share of the very burdens they have been
the means of accumulating. It always re-
quires self-sacrifice to face disagreeable things,
and women do really seem to have that self-
discipline, that divinity in their nature, that
inspire[-] them to practise self-denial, to live
more for others and less for selfish aims and
purposes than man. These qualities are part
of the truly beautiful in what is termed wo-
manliness, and one is sometimes led to think
that men esteem this phase of woman's char-
acter so much that they are anxious to give
her opportunities to display it, that they may
look on and admire. When troubles come,
when poverty and misfortune and suffering
seem to settle down upon the household, is it
not too often the case that the husband and
father resorts to scenes of dissipation, and
seeks to drown his sorrows by the aid of strong
drink; while the wife and mother bravely
strives to stem the tide of misfortune alone,
and by her own industry and with a courage
sometimes almost more than human, patiently
supports the burdens of life, braving the sever-
est storms and stemming the strongest cur-
rents which rise up on all sides to discourage?
	In view of all these facts, men holding pub-
lic offices, rulers in the land and over peoples,
men of culture, men of letters, cry out contin-
ually women are dependent, women can't

[Column 2]
fight, yet men leave women to fight the terri-
ble battles of life that in some instances are
worse to face than death, and those who are
not brave enough to bear the scoffs, and jeers,
and frowns they know must be met in taking
up again life's weary burdens, seek death in
any form, in preference to accepting such con-
ditions as they know must be their only refuge,
wanting strength to live down the past. But
thousands of women in all ages heroically rise
up and arm themselves with a courage that is
admirable, not bold and defiant, but simply
noble in its strength.
	Women do certainly seem to possess a posi-
tive power in their nature, which often makes
itself apparent in the midst of difficulties, and
inspires them, as it were, with faith in them-
selves, that lifts them into a higher and clearer
atmosphere of thought and feeling, and has
such an influence over their lives as to create
strength to overcome obstacles that erst had
seemed insupportable. Every person has a
certain amount of influence over others, in the
family life, in the social circle, and in some
degree it may extend through these sources to
the public. Every woman who has self-reliant
powers, who has faith in her own character,
who believes herself capable of achieving good,
will have an object and a laudable ambition,
and if in connection with this she has that
grace and humility which are component parts
of true womanly worth, then she will be apt
to keep her balance. And added to all these if
she is a Christian, a follower of Jesus' precepts,
she has still another anchor of safety.
	If "women can't and won't fight," if the ele-
ments of peace are so strong in their nature,
then would it not be a good element to infuse
into the laws and governments of nations, and
might it not be a power that would aid in hast-
ening the day when "peace and good will"
should prevail and men should no longer wage
war against each other.
		[handwritten E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

