PROTECTION TO WIVES.
 The House of Commons has agreed to
the new and amended Clause which was
added to the Matrimonial Causes Bill. This
measure now enables police magistrates to
grant, what is substantially a judicial separ-
ation between married couples in cases
where a husband is convicted of an aggra-
vated assault upon his wife. A magistrate’s
order will have all the effect of a judicial
separation on the ground of cruelty. The
husband will be compelled to make the
wife a weekly allowance, to be enforced, in
case of default, by an application for an or-
der to commit him to prison; and the mag-
istrate may, at his discretion, give orders
that the mother is to have custody of the
children under ten years, a supplementary
allowance for their maintenance being en-
forced from the fatner. In the event of
subsequent misconduct on the part of the
mother the children may be removed from
her care.
	The necessity of such a regulation had
become continuously more evident as
weeks and months went by. It was diffi-
cult to open a paper without finding one or
more cases of what Miss Cobbe rightly
termed “Wife Torture,” and equally diffi-
cult to avoid being struck by the painfully
inadequate punishments which were meted
to this crime. It has for a long time been
possible for a rich woman to obtain a decree
of judicial separation under circumstances
of aggravated cruelty—but the class of wo-
men which could afford to pay was precise-
ly not the class which suffered oftenest or
most terribly. It is the illiterate unreclaimed
laborer or artisan who most frequently
knocks his wife’s eye out or jumps upon
her, and for these poor women there has
hitherto been no relief except the tempor-
ary respite while her tormenter was in
prison,---overshadowed by the dread of
what he might do to her in revenge when
he came out. Now, at all events his legal
power as tormentor will be abridged. The
children, who, in many cases are nearly as
great sufferers as the wife, will also be re-
moved from his control, and he will still be
made to feel the responsibilities of hus-
band and father by the weekly payments
he is compelled to make.
	As far as it goes, the clause appears to us
an unmixed gain to women, for as the
“Pall Mall Gazette aptly observes:—“When
a husband realizes that if he belabors his
helpmeet over the head with a poker, or
smashes her ribs by kicks with hob-nailed
boots, he not only runs the risk of impris- 
onment with hard labor, but also that of
losing the services of a hardworking slave,
he will probably think twice before he
strikes or kicks once.” Nevertheless we
cannot expect it to make everything
straight at once. Where wrong has existed
for so long it needs a very steady growth
of opinion, influence of education, and un-
relaxed watchfulness on the part of the
magistrates before its evil effects can be ob-
literated. In the first place there will be
the difficulty of extorting a sufficiency of
alimony or maintenance from the husband.
Of course so long as he is in prison the wife
must either support herself and the child-
ren or go to the workhouse, for it will be a
long time before such prison reform shall
have taken place (though this is the case in
some countries) as shall enforce the pay-
ment of part of the prisoner’s earnings to
the support of his family outside. But
when he is released the magistrate will or-
der a certain allowance to be made to his
wife. This might be made more easy by
empowering his employer to pay over the
necessary portion of his weekly wages into
the wife’s own hands. It is evident, too,
that she must be allowed as complete con-
trol over this money as over her own earn-
ings.
	There will still remain behind an enor-
mous number of cases which this law can-
not touch at all, because the women who
are so brutally ill-treated are not, by any
means, always the wives of their tormen-
tors. It it curious and pitiful to see how
many of these poor creatures are not bound
by any legal tie to their tyrants; who yet,
though they might leave them at any mo-
ment, forgive their brutalities, time after
time, and submit to ill usage without using
the means of liberation within their power.
It is clear that no improvement in the law
of husband and wife is applicable here—
we must look for a remedy in far deeper
causes—the removal of which is less easy,
but would be more permanently beneficial.
	The low consideration in which the law
has hitherto held women is in our opinion,
accountable for much of this barbarity.
The theory that a wife becomes her hus-
band’s property, in body, if not soul, acts
widely in depressing the condition of all
women, whether wives or not. To a rough
uneducated man, the woman is his inferior
in everything which he holds of value;
she has not his physical strength; she can
only earn half as much wages as he can,
the law still further controls her labor, as it
does that of her children; she has not a
vote, which represents to him not unlimit-
ed beer only, but a considerable degree of
dignity and importance at election times,
and moreover, the opinion of the upper
strata of society insensibly filters down, and
as with them, a woman has so long been as
a child, a plaything, or a waxen image,
immeasurably inferior to the active, rea-
soning worldly, matter-of-fact other half of
mankind, their low estimation of women
has become almost a part of the national
character. Our task must be to work slow-
ly against this by means of education, by
instilling a reverence for humanity which
shall cause all crimes of violence against
the weak, men, women, and children, or
animals, to be regarded as far outweighing
offences against property, which at the pres-
ent day are punished so much more vigor-
ously. Our lawgivers must by an absolute
equality of law put women on the same
level as men, so that they may rise in gen-
eral estimation, and their influence on the
gentler and tenderer side of human nature
may increase.
	This amendment in the law is practically
the same that Miss Cobbe suggested in her
powerful article, a few months ago, and we
may here remark that this, and other im-
provements which have taken place in the
condition of women within the last twenty


years, originated in the efforts of women
themselves, without which the old order
would not change, nor "give place to new."
—"Englishwoman's Review."


