EDITOR EXPONEMT:

	The St. George First Ward Relief Socie-
ty held their first annual meeting on
Wednesday the 1st of June, at 2 o'clock p.
m. In consequence of a heavy shower of
rain, the attendance was not as large as
would have been desirable. After the
opening of the meeting the Secretary read
the report which reflected great credit on
her, for the neat and concise manner in
which it was made out; it showed our So-
ciety to be in an excellent financial condi-
tion. The amount which the society has
received in donations and otherwise since
its organization is two hundred and seventy
dollars. The amount now on hand in dif-
ferent kinds of property, is three hundred
and nineteen dollars and sixty-five cents,
showing that the sisters have made, by
their united efforts and faithful labor, a
clear profit of forty-nine dollars and sixty-
five cents. Independent of this they have
donated during the year, to the poor and
Temples, seventy-eight dollars and ten
cents.
	We have been greatly blessed of the
Lord, and materially assisted by our Bishop
and other brethren of the ward who have
taken a lively interest, and have never been
backward in rendering us assistance.
There were present at our meeting, besides
members, President J. T. D. McAllister,
Bishop Miles P. Romney, Wm. Fawcett
and President Anna L. Ivins, all of whom
spoke in a lovely manner, instructing and
encouraging us. Our previous officers were
re-elected and unanimously sustained, hav-
ing proven themselves well qualified for
their positions. Sister Sarah Church, an
energetic and enterprising woman, well
known to many of your citizens has suc-
ceeded in raising for the society about one
lb. of cocoons, as a small beginning to the
silk business, she has also saved a few silk-
worm eggs with a view to trying again
next year. The Bishop in his remarks,
spoke encouragingly in regard to silk cul-
ture, he hoped they would not give it up,
or let die out; he thanked the sisters for
their aid in looking after the poor, and
sick, and seemed to appreciate the labors
of the Society very much.
	The health of the people is not very good
this Spring. Work is still going on in the
Temple.
