			STATES.

Mr. Wadleigh, from the Committee on
Priviliges and Elections, submitted the fol-
lowing report: To accompany bill S. Res. 12.

The Committee on Privileges and Elections, to
whom was referred the resolution (S. Res.
12) ropo[-]ing an amendment to the Consti-
tution of the United States, and certain pe-
titions for aud remonstra [-]ces against the
same, ma[-]e the following report;
This proposed amendment forbids the
United States or any State to deny or
abridge the right to vote on account of sex.
If adopted, it will make several millions
of female voters, totally inexperienced in
political affairs, quite generally dependent
upon the other sex, all incapable, of per-
forming military duty and without the pow-
er to enforce the laws which their numeri-
cal strength may enable them to make, and
comparatively very few of whom wish to
assume the irksome and responsible politi-
cal duties which this measure thrusts upon
them.
An experiment so novel, a change so
great, should only be made slowly and in
response to a general public demand, of the
existence of which there is no evidence be-
fore your committee.
Petitions from various parts of the coun-
try, containing by estimate about 30,000


names, have been presented to Congress
asking for this legislation.
	They were procured through the efforts
of woman-suffrage societies, thoroughly or-
ganized, with active and zealous managers.
The ease with which signatures may be
procured to any petition is well known.
The small number of petitioners, when
compared with that of the intelligent wo-
men in the country, is striking evidence
that there exists among them no general
desire to take up the heavy burden of gov-
erning, which so many men seek to evade.
It would be unjust, unwise, and impoli-
tic to impose that burden on the great mass
of women throughout the country who do 
not wish for it, to gratify the compartaively
few who do.
	It has been strongly urged that without
the right of suffrage women are and will
be subjected to great oppression and injus-
tice.
	But every one who has examined the sub-
ject at all knows that without female suf-
frage legislation for years has improved and
is still improving the condition of woman.
The disabilities imposed upon her by the
common law have, one by one, been swept
away until in most of the States she has the
full right to her property and all, or nearly
all the rights which can be granted without
impairing or destroying the marriage rela-
tion. These changes have been wrought
by the spirit of the age, and are not, gen-
erally at least, the result of any agitation
by women in their own behalf.
	Nor can women justly complain of any
partiality in the administration of justice.
They have the sympathy of judges and par-
ticularly of juries to an extent which would
warrant loud complaint on the part of their
adversaries of the sterner sex. Their ap-
peals to legislatures against injustice are
never unheeded, and there is no doubt that
when any considerable part of the women
of any State really wish for the right to
vote it will be granted without the inter-
vention of Congress.
	Any Senate may grant the right of suf-
frage to women. Some of them have done
so to a limited extent, and perhaps with
good results. It is evident that in some
States public opinion is much more strongly
in favor of it than it is in others. Your
committee regard it as unwise and inexpe-
dient to enable three fourths in number of
the States, through an amendment to the
National Constitution, to force woman suf-
frage upon the other fourth in which the
public opinion of both sexes may be strong-
ly adverse to such a change.
	For these reasons, your committee report
back said resolution with a recommenda-
tion that it be indefinitely postponed.


