HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE LEARN, by letter from Mrs. S. J. A.
Spencer of Washington, that there has been
40,000 names to XVI Amendment petitions
presented in both House and Senate since the
beginning of the 45th Congress. The number
of separate petitions is over 400, from some 425
Congressional Districts in 35 States and 5 Ter-
ritories. Mrs. Spencer has printed 50,000 ap-
peals to women to work for their own enfran-
chisement, and has addressed them to 20,000
P. O. towns. She says she is greatly encour-
aged at the response.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will teach a class in
Obstetrics, commencing immediately after the
October Conference. The class will be taught
at Mrs. Barney's, 11th Ward, 2d South St., 6 1/2
blocks east of Post Office. Students can be
accommodated on reasonable terms; reside and
recite in the same building. Those wishing to
join will please correspond and learn particu-
lars, arrangements should be made as early as
the middle of August. We have addressed
letters to many of the Relief Society Presi-
dents, but it is thought best to insert a few
lines in the EXPONENT, for the benefit of those
who may wish to attend, that our previous
correspondence has not yet reached. Address,
E. S. Barney, Salt Lake City, Box, 739.
	THE "PEARL of Great Price" has been re-
vised, and is now ready for sale at the "Deseret
News" Office. The book contains much of in-
terest to this people, and which would be bene-
ficial to those anxious to gain correct informa-
tion concerning the Gospel. It is a collection

[Column 2]

of choice matter; taken from the revelations,
translations and narrations of the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith. The book contains the revelation
on Celestial Marriage, given to the Prophet in
Nauvoo, Illinois. It has three woodcuts, fac
similes from the "Book of Abraham." It is
bound in cloth and paper, at different prices.
The book will be a valuable addition to the
libraries of the Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions. It would certainly be advisable for the
young people in this community to read such
books, and get ideas concerning principles of
truth. Price, cloth binding, 75 cts; paper
cover, 50 cts.
	MRS. HANNAH T. King, one of our contrib-
utors, has elaborated and published in pam-
phlet form her articles entitled "Women of
the Scriptures." She has dedicated the book
to the "Young Ladies of Utah." Mrs. King
hopes by this means to awaken an interest in
the young ladies to the reading of the Scrip-
tures, and examining into the characters and
attributes of holy women. She has arranged
them according to the age in which they lived,
commencing with Eve, Sarah, Hagar, Rebecca,
and so on, taking in all of the most noble and
sublime heroines of the Bible, down to Mary,
the mother of Jesus, Martha and Mary, to
Dorcas or Tabitha, she from whom so many
benevolent societies have been named. It
closes with a short poem addressed to woman.
The price, 10 cents, brings it within the reach
of all. It is adapted for use in Sunday School
classes. It is neatly got up in a variety of col-
ors, suitable to lay upon any lady's table. The
pamphlet is for sale at this Office, at Dwyer's
Book Store, at several Ward Stores, and at
Mrs. King's residence, 17th Ward.
	THE QUARTERLY Conference of Salt Lake
Stake was held in the Tabernacle in this city,
Saturday and Sunday, July 6th and 7th, Presi-
dent A. M. Cannon presiding. A Quarterly
statistical report of this Stake was read, includ-
ing the report of building committee for the
New Tabernacle, the amount donated to Salt
Lake Temple, financial report of Relief Socie-
ty of Salt Lake Stake from the first organiza-
tion, also quarterly report of last three months;
report of the Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions and Sunday Schools. The General Au-
thorities of this Stake of Zion were presented
and unanimously sustained, including the
presidency of the Relief Society of Salt Lake
Stake. President Cannon addressed the meet-
ing during the morning session. In the after-
noon Elder O. Pratt and Elder W. Woodruff
gave a most earnest exhortation to the Latter-
day Saints to awake to the importance of the
times, and realize the great responsibilities they
were called upon to carry out. Sunday the
forenoon and afternoon services were most
specially interesting; Elder George Q. Cannon,
Delegate to Congress (recently returned), re-
lated something of his experience during this
last session of Congress, the general feeling
wnich existed towards this people since the
death of Pres. Young, and many things which
were very entertaining and instructive. Elder
Joseph F. Smith preached a very powerful ser-
mon upon Celestial Marriage, its benefits, &c.
Pres. John Taylor made the closing remarks
of the afternoon, and strongly and earnestly
appealed to the Elders of Israel to awake from
their slumber and magnify their callings be-
fore the Lord, and honor the Priesthood they
held. The Spirit of God was abundantly man-
ifest in the speakers. The Tabernacle was well
filled on Sunday. The music throughout the
Conference was of a high order, lofty and ele-
vating in tone.


[Column 1]
	A PHILANTHROPIC, moral work is now being
agitated among the sisters, which will, if car-
ried into execution (and it probably will be if
women take hold of it), help to cultivate some
of the little boys born in Zion, that now are
much in need of teaching and discipline.
There are some mothers, and some ladies who
have no children of their own, watching the
growth of evil among the young, and they feel
strongly impressed that some course must be
taken to arrest the development of evil tenden-
cies, and implant in the minds of the younger
boys of the community a love of principle, a
regard for truth, a respect for virtue and hones-
ty, and a remembrance for keeping the Sabbath
holy. It is scarcely yet known what the direct
methods will be, but some suggestions have
been made and some plans proposed, and we feel
it is timely. It is a very important matter, and
one that deserves the best thoughts of the
wisest men and women, especially the fathers
and mothers.
	This people spend time and money, leave
their homes and families to preach the Gospel
in foreign lands, and travel by land and sea,
enduring hardships and persecution, that they
may save some; but while all these things are
being done according to the designs of God in
these last days, the children born in Zion must
not be suffered to grow up in ignorance and
unbelief, disregarding the commandments of
God and breaking His holy Sabbath. We know
the teaching in Sunday Schools is a great in-
centive to good, but there must be other co-op-
erating influences in connection with this, for
children have so great a flow of animal spirits,
and their natures are so susceptible to influ-
ences that surround them, that unless there is
a constant safeguard thrown around them in
tender years, they are liable to be led into evil
practises, and their lives blighted through hab-
its and associations that are improper and tend
to evil.
	WEDNESDAY, July 10, the Quarterly Con-
ference of Davis Co. Stake Relief Society was
held in Farmington, at the Meeting House,
commencing at 10 o'clock a.m. and at 2 o'clock
p.m., forenoon and afternoon session. There
were present on the stand President of Stake,
Wm. Smith, Bishop Hess of Farmington, Pa-
triarch Roswell Hyde of Kaysville, Miss Eliza
R. Snow and Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake
City, and Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes, President of
Relief Society local Stake, her Counselors,
Mrs. Mary S. and Mrs. Nancy A. Clark, Secre-
tary Miss Minerva Richards, also Presidents of
other local branches. Minutes of the organiza-
tion of the Relief Society Stake, and reports
from all the branches in the County, except
South Weber, were read by the Secretary. The
reports proved that the sisters in that County
had been diligent in good works, and possessed
good financial ability. Since their first organ-
ization they have contributed largely, in vari-
ous ways, towards promoting the establishment
of Zion.
	Some eloquent and earnest remarks were
made by the sisters, appropriate to the occa-
sion, upon the duties and responsibilities of
woman as a Saint and citizen; also upon the
storing of grain, home industries, especially
sericulture and straw work. Miss Snow made
a touching appeal to the audience on the sub-
ject of Sabbath breaking and its terrible conse-
quences; in fact, she said so many good things
that we cannot enumerate them. She called
upon all the sisters who had home-manufac-
tured hats or bonnets to stand up, and there
was a goodly number, but not so many as one
would expect in a settlement where straw-
material is abundant. In the afternoon Miss

[Column 2]
Snow spoke upon the efforts which were being
made to become self-sustaining, the various
duties of Saints, the mission given to the Re-
lief Societies to manufacture silk, and called
for all the sisters who were raising cocoons to
give their names to the Secretary. President
Holmes called upon each President of the re-
spective branches in Davis Co. to represent
her Society from the stand. Mrs. Phebe At-
kinson of South Bountiful, Mrs. Elizabeth
Barlow of East Bountiful, Mrs. Susan Grant
of West Bountiful, Mrs. Margaret Randall of
Centreville, Mrs. Hortensia Leonard of Farm-
ington, Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde of Kaysville,
Mrs. King, Counselor to Mrs. Janet Cook of
South Weber, Mrs. Elizabeth Williams of
South Hooper, all responded, making a few
remarks upon the work in their respective lo-
calities, and their great desire to help in build-
ing up the kingdom of God. The Presidents
of Y. L. M. I. A. were then called. Mrs. Lucy
Clark represented the Association of Farming,
ton, Mrs. Williams that of Kaysville, Mrs.
Caroline Dalrymple of Centreville, Mrs. Holt
of East Bountiful. Miss E. R. Snow, by re-
quest of the officers of the Stake, after some
explanatory remarks, nominated Mrs. Nancy
A. Clark to preside over the Y. L. M. I. Asso-
ciations of Davis Co. Stake; the vote to sustain
her in that office was unanimous. Miss
Wealthy Richards was nominated as her Sec-
retary, and sustained by unanimous vote.
President Wm. Smith and Bishop J. W. Hess
then set apart the sisters who preside over the
Relief Society of that Stake in that County
for their special offices. Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes,
President, and her two Counselors, also Mrs.
Nancy A. Clark to preside over the Young
Ladies' Associations. Pres. Smith and Bishop
Hess each made some very excellent remarks
approving of the business of the Conference,
the teaching and instruction which had been
given, and encouraging the sisters to persevere
in their labors. The meeting was one of great
interest, and calculated to promote and
strengthen the growth of spiritual, moral and
intellectual culture among the sisters, and to
aid the various branches of the Society in
more effectually uniting to do good.


