KENTUCKY.

	Another wonderlul cave has recently been
discovered near Glasgow Junction, Ky. It
has already been explored for a distance of
23 miles in one direction, called the long
route, and 16 miles in another direction,
called the short route. The avenues are
very wide; a span of horses can easily be
driven through for a distance of 11 miles.
Three rivers, wide and very deep, are en-
countered on the long route. One of them
is navigable for 14 miles, until the passages
become too narrow to admit a boat. This
forms the third, or river route. which has
to be explored in a boat.
	The cave is wonderful beyond descrip-
tion, and far surpasses in grandeur the
Mammoth, or any other cave ever before
discovered. Several mummified remains
have been discovered in one of the large
rooms. They were reposing in stone cof-
fins, rudely constructed, and from appear-
ances may have been in this cave for cen-
turies. They present every appearance of
the Egyptian mummies.
	Great excitement prevails over this very
important discovery. Edwin Mortimore,
of Chestnut Street, Louisville, Ky., pur-
chased three of the mummies, and has them
now in his possession. Major George M.
Proctor, of Glasgow Junction, Ky., pur-
chased the remainder of the mummies from
the owner of the cave, Thomas Kelley. The
latter is, or rather was a few days ago, a
very poor man struggling to make a pay-
ment on a farm of 24 acres, upon which, by
mere accident, the entrance to this wonder-
ful cave was discovered. He obtained about
$400 cash for the mummies, and is now of-
fered $10,000 cash for the cave.
	The entrance to the cave is within the
town limits, and is only about two minutes'
walk from the depot, which makes it very
valuable indeed, as visitors will not be
compelled to travel five miles in a stage
coach, as they do if desirous of visiting the
Mammoth cave, which is five miles from
this town. In fact, all the celebrated caves
in Kentucky are in this immediate vicin-
ity. The surface is very much broken, full
of great, elevations and depressions, with
everything to indicate that there were vol-
canic eruptions or violent upheavals of the
earth at some period.
	The newly discovered cave has been
named the Grand Crystal cave, and is as
beautiful as its name implies. Ladders and
bridges are being constructed, and J. R.
Puckett, a capitalist of the town; announces
his intention of having a small steamboat
constructed expressly for the purpose of
navigating its wonderful rivers.—[Dispatch
to Cincinnati Commercial.]


For Rheumatism.—Take one quart of hops, one
large handful of wormwood, boil them well to-
gether in one gallon of water; then strain the
liquid and boil it down to one quart; add one
quart of the best brandy and one pound of white
sugar. Take one tablespoonful three times a day.


