				LONDON, May 27, 1878.

	I write from the Athenæum Club, one of
the series of palaces which line Pall Mall,
and impress an American visitor with some
amazement. The Athenæum is the only
one among these which claims also an intel-
lectual reputation; it is the palace of men
of letters; their place of meeting, of re-
freshment, of study, of luxurious repose.
Its library reminds one of that of its name-
sake in Boston, though with an incompara-
bly grander hall. But there are also read-
ing-rooms, writing-rooms, smoking-room
and dining hall; it is, as it were, the Bos-
ton Athenæum and Tremont House thrown
into one; with a good many added luxuries,
every conceivable convenience for study,
delightful writing tables furnished with all
the elaborate English conveniences, a post-
office drop-letter box in every room, and
liveried servants always at hand. To this
is added the flavor of absolute privacy; no-
body can bring a guest beyond the entrance-
hall; but the committee may admit foreign-
ers not exceeding fifteen in number, as vis-
itors" for a month. Through the kindness
of friends, I find myself one of those now
enjoying this privilege. As in all palaces—
I suppose—you can make use of this for the
least or the greatest privileges; you can
come in to get a luncheon or a postage-stamp;
or you can come in for hours of study in the
library; or take your chance of meeting
Browning or Mathew Arnold or Huxley or
Hughes or Sir Henry Maine or Anthony
Trollope or many another who has before
been to you only a name on a title-page.
No spot in the world can offer to an Eng-
lish-speaking author such satisfactions. It
forms no small part, I should say, of the ad-
vantage of London residence to an author,
that he has this magnificent intellectual
headquarters, where he can meet authors or
students in all the departments, and can
compare notes on any subject with the men
who have most studied it. I wish I could
add that women share this advantage, but
they do not. There are clubs of less pre-
tentions to which women are, however, ad-
mitted; and I hope to visit some of these.
	I have had the pleasure of meeting in
London several of the leaders of the Wo-
man Suffrage movement, and have heard
speeches on the subject from Mrs. Fawcett,
Miss Becker, Miss Kerr, and others. All
that they said was extremely to the point,
and I was struck with the success with
which they met objections. They had per-
haps less grace and eloquence than some of
our speakers; and dealt, as in the English
way, more in facts than in abstract princi-
ples. They did not strike me as having
any other advantage; and I noticed that
they seemed less successful in drawing
men of high social rank to the movement
than some meetings which seemed quite
as radical—as for instance the "Sunday So-
ciety" for opening galleries, which mus-
tered two or three Earls without apparent
difficulty. I had also the great pleasure of
meeting in private Miss Helen Taylor, well
known to the readers of Stuart Mill, and to
hear her speak in very cordial terms of the
"Woman's Journal." She and Mrs. Miller,
whom I have also met, are active members
of the London School Board.

	Much interest has been inspired here by
the Besant trial, as a result of which, the cus-
tody of a little girl was assigned to the fa-
ther instead of the mother, on the ground
first, that the latter propagated atheistical
doctrines, and, secondly, that she had also
published a book, which the Judge on exam-

[Column 2]
ination, pronounced obscene and immoral.
I wish I had time to describe more fully the
trial—the little court-room, the bewigged
judge and lawyers; the fair, calm, gentle
young mother, only twenty-eight years old,
pleading for her child. She argued simply
and clearly, though she made, as I thought,
some palpably weak points; and her sweet-
ness under the abrupt interruptions of the
judges was something admirable. But the
judge though abrupt was not unkind; and
even the opposing lawyer showed far more
courtesy, I thought, than may often be
seen in an American Court. The final de-
cision seems severer in reading than it
sounded; and though the Judge (Sir George
Jessel) ruled against her on both points, he
plainly regarded her as a deluded, not as a
bad woman, and gave his decision with re-
luctance. One thing that added to the pic-
turesqueness of the scene was that it was a
Jewish judge, who on the Jewish Sabbath,
thus decided between a Christian husband
and an atheist wife. Another noticeable
thing was that he ruled against her, in the
interest of the child, not on the ground
that she was unfit to bring it up, but on the
rather characteristically English ground
that the social position of the child would
be impaired because of the prejudice
against the mother. I heard it well said
that this habit of reasoning would logically
lead to awarding any child to a parent who
was a Churchman rather than to a Dissent-
ing-parent. But the "Times" made the
most important admission when it said, the
next day, that the same reasoning would
have taken away Stuart Mill, as a child,
from the custody of his father, who brought
him up very much as Mrs. Besant brought
up her child; namely, not to disbelieve re-
ligion or to believe it, but simply to post-
pone it. And the "Times" said frankly
that the only possible point of distinction
was to say that the social position of a boy
would be less affected by the unpopular
opinions of a father than that of a girl by
those of a mother; a distinction between
the rights of the sexes which naturally
calls forth some protest.	T. W. H.
—"Woman's Journal.'


