WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I sometimes feel it almost a duty devolv-
ing upon me to transmit some of my ram-
bling thoughts to paper for publication ex-
pressive of my gratitude to my Heavenly
Father for his mercy and goodness towards
me and mine, who are invariably blessed
with good health, and a goodly portion of
the Spirit of God which teaches and guides
us in the path marked out for us to follow;
but I have refrained, fearing, though per-
haps foolishly, that my sisters might deem
me officious, or desirous of being noticed,
but as notoriety is not a characteristic of
my nature I withhold my pen no longer in
a good cause, and ever pray that I may live
the life of a Saint and perform those du-
ties which rest upon me as a mother in Is-
rael. I do desire my children to become
bright and useful ornaments in the service
and kingdom of God, and also willing and
obedient to their earthly parents whose
constant prayers are for their good that
they may lay claim to the blessing of life
as promised in the 5th commandment.
	The Gospel was introduced to me in Lon-
don in 1852, by a zealous man who subse-
quently became my husband, emigrated to
Utah in the last hand-cart company in 56,
and entered the holy order of Celestial
Marriage in the spring of 57; have had
twenty-one years experience in the valleys
of the mountains, and feel thankful for my
standing in the Church of Jesus Christ,
and for a husband who delights in the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and who is honest and
just in his dealings with all. I have not
been favored in Zion like some, with earth-
ly riches, but I do not feel to repine, for I
have blessings which far exceed these, for
the Lord has enriched me with a grateful
and appreciative heart, which were it possi-
ble,I would not exchange for all this world's
goods. I try to gain knowledge and wis-
dom that I can lay up treasures in heaven
where rust and moth cannot corrupt, and
pray that my mind may become fruitful
and my memory refreshed, that I may re-
tain those good things which I read and
hear, that they may prove a lasting benefit
to me. I rejoice in the Gospel dispensation
and in the principle of Plural Marriage,
knowing it is of divine origin, by its en-
nobling and purifying tendencies. Man
could not, neither would he devise such a

[Column 2]
great and grand design as the Lord has in
view, 'tis too pure and god-like for the un-
godly to trifle with, and I am thankful for
it that a righteous seed may be raised up
to rule and govern upon the earth, under
the jurisdiction of the Almighty Creator,
that his purposes may be finally brought
about which are destined to redeem man-
kind. I am one alone out of a large family
and have quite a list of my genealogy when
the way opens for me to officiate for my
dead relatives, and friends, and as a sister
told me I am as a Savior upon Mount Zion.
I am also thankful for the societies and as-
sociations formed among women, and that
I am counted worthy to be a co-worker
therein and trust they will answer the pur-
pose for which they were organized, and
may we strive to improve our moral and
intellectual worth is my earnest desire.
M. A. TATE.
Goshen Valley, May 28, 1878.

