MEETING OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
MT. PLEASANT, June 23, 1878.
	On the stand were Sisters Eliza R. Snow
and Zina D. Young of Salt Lake City, Mrs.
Amelia Goldsbrough of Nephi, Mrs. M. A.
P. Hyde and Mrs. Alred of Spring City,
and Mrs. Irons of Moroni, also Mrs. Mor-
rison, President of the Relief Society of
Mt. Pleasant, and her Counselors.  Meet-
ing was called to order by the President.
Opened by singing prayer, etc.  Miss E.
R. Snow arose and said she had looked
over the financial reports and was well
pleased with them; the Prophet Joseph had
said that whenever the church was fully
organized there would be Relief Societies
and if they would carry out the will of the
Lord, they would  become the most glorious
societies that were ever formed.  Said we
should all be rewarded for our labors wheth-
er they were all reported or not.  If we
keep the Comforter in our bosoms, we
should always be happy and the labors of
life would be pleasant and we would realize
that we were working for a purpose. Every 
one would have to work out his or her sal-
vation and one could not do the work for 
the other.  Urged the sisters, if there was
any one who had not joined the society to
do so and they would find it of great bene-
fit to them; it is woman that gives tone
to society, hence she should seek to im-
prove in everything that is noble and good;
the success of the Relief Societies is as
much to the interest of the brethren as to
the sisters.  The Lord has offered us the 
highest glory in the Celestial World, and
revealed unto us the law by which it could
be obtained, "Celestial Marriage," and if
people thought that a man who had been
sealed to one wife only, could obtain the
same degree of glory as the man who had
received more and was faithful, they would
find themselves dreadfully mistaken; and
the man that would not obey this law could
not become a God in the Celestial Kingdom.
She exhorted the sisters to read the Church
works and other useful books and to avoid
that class of reading that would be no ben-
efit to them; recommended for the Y. I.
Association to introduce home reading and
report in their meetings.  Said if Zion did
not become self-sustaining we would suffer
when the time came that we would be cut
off from Babylon; also recommended the
setting out of mulberry-trees and the rais-
ing of silk.  Related a vision given to a
certain young man forshadowing famine
and distress that will come among this peo-
ple.
Mrs. Zina D. Young was next introduced
to the congregation and said:  We should
strive to imitate the love and goodness of
our Heavenly Father and let it extend to
all around us; it was no doubt right for the
Lord to try the rising generation so they
might have a chance to show whether they
would yield to the tempter or not.  The
sin is not in being tempted, but in falling
into temptation.  She presented some fine
specimens of silk cloth, dress goods, fringe,
thread, etc., all of home production.  Hoped
the sisters would patronize the Woman's
paper, the EXPONENT, and read the good
instruction therein contained.
Miss E. R. Snow felt to acknowledge the
kind assistance rendered to the Territorial
Fair by the ladies of this place, in the fine
specimens of workmanship forwarded by
them; related the establishment and pro-
gress of the Woman's Commission Store in
S. L. City.  Wished the young sisters to
write for the EXPONENT and accustom
themselves to writing generally.
Mrs. Morrison made a few remarks and
desired those who wished to subscribe for
the EXPONENT to hand in their names,
several responded.  A vote of thanks was
tendered to Sisters Snow and Young for
the visit they had made us and for the rich
and valuable instructions we had received
from them.
John Tidwell sen., was called upon and
responded in a few remarks expressing his
satisfaction and joy in meeting with old
time friends and listening to their words
of encouragement.
W. S. Seely made a few remarks and ex-
horted the people to profit by what they
had heard from the sisters.
Singing, and prayer by C. N. Lund.
M. F. C. MORRISON, Prest.
