SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, May 15, 1902.


[Column 1]
THIRTY VOLUMES.
	Perhaps there are only a few of our read-
ers who realize that it is now thirty years
since this little paper, the Woman’s
Exponent, first made its exit into the
world of thought and action. This num-
ber closes the thirtieth volume, and all
who are interested in the movement for
woman’s advancement and enfranchisement
cannot help thinking, how much they are
indebted to this little organ of ours for the
information and intelligence which has
been spread through its columns from time
to time ever since its first issue on the first
day of June, 1872.
	The women of Utah were among the
first to have a woman’s paper; at that time
there were but very few in the United
States and almost none elsewhere.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston is only
three years and a half older, and is the one
woman’s paper which has continued dur-
ing all that period regularly.
	The Woman's Tribune, of Washington,
D. C., is a number of years behind the
“Exponent.”
	It really seems strange that the sisters
who ought to be deeply interested in the
“Exponent” should be apparently so
indifferent to its interest. It is impossible
to publish papers or books without money.
Recently we heard the editors of the
Woman’s Journal say they had been
obliged to put four thousand dollars more
into the Journal to help it along. There
have been before gifts made to that publi-
cation from rich people, which have helped
very materially. The Woman’s Journal
has an immense circulation because it is
non-sectarian and is maintained along such
lines as to make it very popular; whereas
the Womans Exponent is the organ of
our Latter-day Saint women and distinc-
tively the expression of women of our faith,
which has always been unpopular. Never-
theless our women have broad views on
general questions, such as suffrage and
higher education, yet the very fact that it
is a “Mormon” woman’s paper would
limit its circulation outside in the world;
consequently it must depend entirely upon
the patronage of our own people. Our
sisters should rally to its support and
help to make it a more desirable medium
of communication than it ever has been in
the past. It would be an easy matter if
the Relief Society officers everywhere
would advocate it earnestly; for the Relief
Society is the largest and strongest organ-
sation we have, and this is the paper that

[Column 2]
contains the general information needed
for their work. Whenever any celebration
is to be held among the women of Zion,
such as the anniversary of the first organ-
zation orPeace demonstrations,and the like,
then the “Exponent” is called in ques-
tion immediately. Silk culture, Fairs,
Bazars and the Suffrage cause, and in fact,
all progressive movements, have been pro-
moted through its pages. The sisters
scarcely comprehend what this little paper
has done for them during the last thirty
years; outside among the branches of the
Church in other countries and in places re-
mote it has rendered good service in the
cause of truth as well as in helping along
the organizations.
	Biographical sketches of the lives of
many of our good sisters have been pub-
lished from time to time, and the deaths of
hundreds whose good works have been
made known and their names thus perpetu-
ated. It has contained many testimonies
of the Gospel and its benefits and a large
number of minutes of the meetings and
conferences in the different Stakes of Zion
and in other parts of the world. All the
General Conferences of the Relief Society
have been published, and in fact, it is a
record of woman’s work and particularly of
the Relief Society.
	If the sisters could realize the importance
of having a paper of their own and the
prestige it gives to their work, surely they
would bestir themselves to obtain sub-
scriptions and make the paper so prosper-
ous that there could be no possible reason
for complaint as to irregularity.
	Let us hope for a more hopeful outlook
in the coming time so that such improve-
ments may be made as will keep pace with
the more modern times and better supply
the needs of the women now engaged in
the larger work of practical progression
and social uplifting of the masses of the
people, who are looking for light, knowl-
edge and wisdom that may help them in
their homes and to rear their families in
righteousness.


[Column 1]
FOUR SCORE YEARS.
	A happy anniversary celebration was
commemorated on Saturday, May 3, 1902,
in the handsome old parlors at the historic
Bee Hive House, the occasion being the
eightieth birthday anniversary of Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith, one of the most
noble mothers in Israel in this dispensa-
tion of the fulness of times in which many
noble women, as well as distinguished men
have taken part.
	Sister Smith occupies at the present time
the highest place of honor among the
Latter-day Saint women, president of the
Relief Society of the Church of Latter-day
Saints in all the world. It is therefore
most appropriate her name should be
known among our people, and honors ac-
corded her befitting the position she holds.
Aside from this she is greatly beloved for
her many virtues, integrity to the Gospel,
her faithfulness to its principles and her
many good works and deeds of mercy and
of love.
	A hundred or more invited guests as-
sembled about two or three in the after-
noon and offered congratulations, wishing
many happy returns of the day, and bring-
ing flowers and other gifts. A fine gold
watch chain was presented to her by the
sisters who work in the Temple. President

[Column 2]
Joseph F. Smith and his Counselors were
present, with members of their families,
also Bishop Wm. B. Preston and wife;
Patriarch John Smith and wife; Apostle
John Henry Smith and wife; Apostle
Hyrum M. Smith and wife; and some of
Sister Smith’s dearest friends, veteran
sisters among whom she has labored many
years; among these were Sisters M. Isa-
bella Horne and Jane S. Richards also
Sister Lucy W. Kimball and others.
	Sisters Hannah and Susan Smith, of her
husband’s family, and her own daughter
and husband, Brother and Sister Clarence
Merrill, with a number of granddaughters
and grandsons, their children and some
great grandchildren.
	A delicious feast was partaken of spread
upon small tables seating three or four
guests, and a genuine feeling of good
fellowship pervaded the happy groups.
President Joseph F. Smith pronounced the
blessing.
	After the supper tables were cleared
away there was a sort of impromptu pro-
gram of speeches and recitations; many of
the sisters who were called spoke in the
highest terms of praise of the guest of the
occasion, and of her labors in the family,
the home and the Church. President
Smith conducted the exercises and called
upon most of those present to express
themselves and all seemed to enter into
and partake of the goodly spirit and feeling
of the assembly. There was also some piano
music and singing, one or two humorous
recitations and sufficient variety to make the
time enjoyable.
	The EXPONENT adds its warmest con-
gratulations and good wishes, and hopes
and trusts Sister Bathsheba’s life may be
prolonged, until she is satisfied with her
mission here upon earth, and may the
many blessings she has bestowed upon
her fellow laborers be multiplied upon her
posterity, and her living example of faith-
fulness inspire not her children alone, but
all the youth of Israel to strive for right-
eousness and to be valiant for the truth.
	In thinking of Sister Smith one cannot
but recall the poet’s words:
	"Touch us gently, Time !
	Let us glide adown thy stream
	Gently, as we sometimes glide.
	Through a quiet dream.

	Humble voyagers are we
	O’er life’s dim unsounded sea,
	Seeking only some calm clime,
	Touch us gently, gentle Time.”

	Surely time has touched Sister Smith
gently, and yet her life has not been a
summer dream, but full of changes, rich
with experience from which she has gath-
ered much wisdom and happiness.


