WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


[Column 1]
UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	The January meeting, 1898, was held at
the home of Mrs Belle Bunnell. Mrs. Camil-
la C. Cobb and Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams
were received as members. Three members
were appointed on the Education committee,
namely: Dr. Orielle Curtis, Helen V. Kim-
ball and Hattie Harker. A letter was read
from Mrs. Martha Y. Jennings suggesting
that the club join the General Federation.
After some discussion it was moved, seconded
and carried by unanimous vote that the club
join that body. Mrs. I. Cameron Brown was
elected a delegate to the meeting of the
General Federation to be held in Denver,
and Mrs. Rachel Miller as alternate. The
program of the evening was on Germany.
One paper was on the German Empire,
another one on notable men and one on
notable women. A German song by Mrs.
Camilla C. Cobb. Recitation, “The Earl
King,” by Mrs. Bunnell. German refresh-
ments were served at the close of the meet-
ing.
	The February meeting was held by invita-
tion at the home of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, who
had so pleasantly entertained the club on
many occasions. 
	At the March meeting Mrs. Luella Rhodes
was admitted to membership. By unan-
imous vote Mrs. Laura Hyde was elected
alternate director in the State Federation,
Mrs. L. S. Dickinson being absent. A letter
was read from the Woman’s Club, asking
that a representative be sent to meet with
them in a club council for the discussion of
important questions of interest. Mrs. Ruth
M. Fox was sent as such representative. The
question of the traveling libraries came up
and one dollar was sent toward the establish-
ment. Mrs. Lawler was admitted a mem-
ber. A motion was made by Mrs. E. B.
Wells and carried unanimously, that the club
subscribe five dollars for charter membership
in the George Washington Memorial Asso-
ciation. In the Woman’s Council of Clubs
the Press Club was given the appointment of
secretary, from its membership. Mrs. Mar-
garet A Caine was given the appointment.
	On the 19th of March a special meeting
was held for the purpose of discussing the
life and writings of F. Marion Crawford, the
celebrated author. President R. B. Pratt
stated that this world-famed writer would
visit Salt Lake City in the coming week and
it was the desire of the Press Club to enter-
tain him. General arrangements were made.
Mrs. L. D. Alder gave a paper on the auth-
or’s life and work. Mrs. M. J. Lambert
gave a list of his works. Vice-President
Susa Y. Gates was a visitor at this meeting
and added to the literary interest in F. Mar-
ion Crawford’s works
	The Press Club gave a grand reception at
the Bee Hive House to Mr. Crawford and
Major Pond, who accompanied him. Most
of the noted women of the Salt Lake clubs
attended. It was quite a brilliant and social
affair. Conversation and introductions were
interspersed with charming musical selections
both vocal and instrumental.

[Column 2]
	At the April meeting Mrs. Margaret A.
Caine was officially appointed a delegate to
the Council of Women’s Clubs. The burn-
ing question of the hour, the situation be- 
tween Spain and America owing to the
blowing up of the Maine in the harbor of
Havanna, whereby nearly three hundred
American citizens had been ruthlessly hurled
out of the world in times of peace, was fully
discussed. Public feeling had been aroused
to a dangerous degree in the United States
and clamored for war and revenge. Presi-
dent R. B. Pratt gave an address carefully
summing up the situation. Mrs. L. D.
Alder read a scathing poem from her own
pen on the same subject, entitled,
“Hespania.”
	At the May meeting Mrs. Kate B. Ander-
son was received as a member. A paper
was read by Mrs. Rhodes on the Royal
Family of Spain, and her present gener-
als. Mrs. M. J. Lambert in her paper on
current events, included letters from women’s
organizations concerning the war, and a
mother’s most pathetic letter, whose son was
killed on the Maine.
	The June meeting was a continuation of
the war sentiment, and a most stirring ad-
dress on the subject was given by Dr. Orielle
Curtis, which was afterwards published in
the Deseret News. “Women rally to the
standard, free your sister woman in down-
trodden Cuba,” was the burden of her
thrilling speech. The spirit of war stalked
over the lands, even the children were crying
for retribution for the killed of the Maine.
	At the September meeting Mrs. E. B.
Wells and Mrs. M. A. Caine were appointed
a committee to attend to the business of in-
corporating the club.
	In October the annual meeting was held
at the home of Mrs. L. B. Bunnell. The re-
port of the incorporating committee was laid
on the table. Mrs. Ella W. Hyde was
elected president with a full corps of officers.
The late queen of Denmark and some of her
descendants was taken up. The speakers
were Helen Vilate Kimball and Lydia D.
Alder. Next the Dreyfus case was discussed.
Miss Kimball read a number of clippings
concerning it and a continuation was deter-
mined upon. All the world were anxiously
watching this most intricate case. Then the
brilliant lights were extinguished and in the
glow of the soft grate fires Mrs. Ruth M.
Fox related some very thrilling Halloween
stories.
			(Continued.)

