WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		CHICAGO SWEAT SHOPS.
The most thorough investigation ever
made of the “sweatshops” of Chicago has
been completed under the auspices of the
University of Chicago The department
of sociology assigned Miss Nellie Mason
Auten, a graduate student, to the task,
and after many months of labor she has
made a remarkably thorough report on the
conditions of the men and women in the
sweatshops of the garment trade in
Chicago, and summarizing clearly the
prices paid by contractors and wholesale
dealers. One of her most startling state-
ments is that wages of these employees are
steadily falling.
	Miss Auten is a graduate of Wellesley
College, who came to Chicago to carry on
her studies in economics and sociology, and
her interest in vital questions concerning
industrial conditions led her to consent to
undertake a personal investigation of the
sweatshops, where is carried on the mak-
ing of boys’ and mens’ suits, cloaks and
other garments. Miss Auten says that she
recognizes the ethical questions involved
in the situation, but that she has presented
visible conditions rather than any solution
of the problem, and it is her presentation
of the subject which makes her work of
value to society, and especially to Chicago.
	“Sweating” is the unpleasantly sugges-
tive term applied to the work done for
some tailor or wholesaler under conditions
which allow a maximum amount of work
per day to be performed for a minimum
wage, and under which the ordinary rules
of health and comfort are disregarded.
And “sweatshops” are usually tenement
houses, kitchens or bedrooms “in which
the head of the family employs outsiders.”
Miss Auten says that “in Chicago at the
present time conditions are not so bad as
they might be,” and then she goes on to
say that many of the sweatshops are in
the back tenements or stables, where there
is practically no yard space and no possi-
bility of sunshine or fresh air. In one case
which Miss Auten discovered on the
Northwest Side there was “a court fifteen
or twenty feet square surrounded on all
sides by buildings four stories high. Heaps
of dirty snow lay massed on the ground,
too much shut off from the sun to melt and
disappear. The only entrance to the court
was by narrow sidewalks along the front ten-
ement. The narrow spaces between the
four buildings only served to make the court
more dismal. One felt almost as if shut
up in some dungeon of an earlier age, and
breathed a sigh of relief on returning to the
freer air and outlook of the street.”
	Seldom did she find proper sanitary ac-
commodations, and often in the coldest
weather, she found the rooms stiflingly
close but entirely unheated. Some of the
shops are in basements, where the evils are
even more exaggerated because of the bad
air and worse darkness.
		IN NATIONAL GROUPS.
	The garment trade is divided between
five nationalities—the Italians, Scandi-
navians, Bohemians, Jews and Poles—and
each nationality has its own territory and
usually its own peculiar development of
the sweating system.
	The Italians stand lowest in the scale of
living and scale of wages they are “more
squalid and filthy and more crowded than
any of the other nationalities.” In 1897
there were reported to be 6,773 Italians in

[Column 2]
Chicago, and about three per cent worked
at the garment trade under the most ter-
rible conditions. And at that time thirty
were reported to come to their work from
homes where there had been contagious
diseases—smallpox and diphtheria. The
garments they were making were sent as
usual to wholesale dealers and department
stores. Nearly three-fourths of these
Italians were employed only part of the
year, the average time of employment
being about thirty-one weeks out of the
fifty-two. And the number of hours’
work per day varied from eight to sixteen.
The rate of pay per hour is something un-
believable Many worked for five cents an
hour and never was the rate higher than
twenty five cents an hour.
		SEVEN CENTS A DAY.
	One Italian woman worked ten hours a
day, six days in the week, and made 40
cents per week (a rate of two-thirds of a
cent an hour) and she could make $21 a
year. Another woman, a pants finisher
worked eleven hours per day and made 30
cents a week. Many of the workers made
less than a dollar a week, many more were
earning less than $100 a year, and in many
families the whole income was from $100
to $200.
	The Swedes in the garment trade live,
for the most part, on the North Side; and
conditions are not so extreme because of
the unions, which help to keep up the
wages. Miss Auten reviews the demand
made by the union—a nine hour day; the
Saturday half holiday in July and August;
a fixed scale of wages for piece work or
for work by the week ($8 or $10 for women
and $12 or $15 for pressers and hand-
sewers.) These demands were granted for
the year March 1, 1900 to March 1, 1901.
	The Custom Vest Tailor’s Protective
Association has a membership of thirty
contractors and they do not employ any
non-union men. These contractors or
middlemen, are in turn the employees of
wholesalers and department store owners, as
well as of the custom tailors, and last
winter the contractors sent a petition to
their employers asking a rise in the prices
paid for vests, because of the rise in the
price of silk and because of the demands
made upon them in turn by their em-
ployees. The petition was granted and
everything ran smoothly.
	Miss Auten visited a cooperative tailor
shop, where several tailors shared in the
expenses, though each one was working for
a different merchant tailor. She says, each
one pays $3 a month rent, and about $1 a
week for silk, car fare and other incidentals.
*   *   * In the busy months each man
makes two coats a week by working from
twelve to sixteen hours a day, and earns
from $8 to $13 a week. One of them, a
Finlander, said it was not unusual for a
man to work all night to fill a special
order. The eyes of three of the six men
in the shop were much inflamed and their
backs were bent.”
	The custom and journeymen tailors as a
rule work in their own homes and provide
their machines.
	The Bohemians are probably second to
the Swedes. They live in the district
bounded on the south and west by Eigh-
teenth Street and Blue Island Avenue—the
did “Sixth Ward.” Ninety-five per cent
of the shops front on the alley, without
light in the back, and many are over or


[Column 1]
near stables. The Bohemians make coats,
pants and overcoats. Foot power machines
are used and the work is reported as pretty
steady. The wages range from $1 to $12
a week—few of the operators, however,
making as much as $12. The Bohemians
stand by their union and are soberly in-
dustrious.
	The condition of the Jews, who live in
the district bounded by Polk and Fifteenth
streets, Stewart and Blue Island Avenue,
are to all appearances worse than the
Bohemians. They are crowded and dirty
and work day and night.
	A step lower than the Jews are the
Poles who are scattered throughout the
city. The average wage of the machine
operators among the Poles was $8 the hand
workers, $4; the pressers $9.75; and the
home finishers, 3.25

