UNCERTAIN SEASONS.
“Another set of causes has its rise in the
character of the industry. The garment
trades are seasonable industries—that is,
there are certain months in the year when a

[Column 2]
great deal of work must be done and other
months in which there is almost no work.
This alternate rush and quiet are, in turn,
due to the change in fashions, which can
best be explained by the economic pressure
on competing dry goods and tailoring
establishments which have to bring about
an artificial desire for change in clothes in
order to stimulate trade. The most de-
plorable result of this uncertain activity is
found in the long hours of the tailor and
the excessive haste of the home finisher,
who knows that if he or she does not get
the finished garments back to the contrac-
tor on time there will be no work forth-
coming for the future—for there are always
men and women ready to step in and
promise punctuality.
	Still another cause is the minute division
of labor; one man sews seams, another
makes buttonholes, etc , and none of the
work takes long to learn. Therefore a
change of employees is made easy for the
contractor who, when asked for higher
wages, says: “Go, if you please; I can find
some one else who will gladly work for
less.” And all that is needed in this industry
is “a small room, a few sewing machines
and people.
	Miss Auten classes as a fourth set of
causes the attitude of manufacturer, con-
tractor, landlord and consumer. “They
all,” she says, “to a greater or less degree
have a happy, or rather unhappy, feeling
of irresponsibility, and often a sordid de
sire for individual profit.” The manu-
facturer feels it no affair of his how the
work is done. The contractor is pressed
to keep his contracts and feels no interest
in the conditions under which his employ-
ees work. The landlord is content to get
the most rent he can without asking ques-
tions. The consumer is always ready for
bargains. And so it is the man, unedu-
cated. perhaps unskilled, has to say: “Yes,
I must keep on working, even though my
back is breaking and my eyes will scarcely
stay open, for my wife and the little ones
must have bread, and I must work now if
it kills, for soon there will be no work to
do.” And there are 35,853 such workers
in the garment trades in Chicago.

