BIOGRAPHY AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Sketch and resolutions of respect to the memory
of Sister Wilmirth Greer East, daughter of N. H.
and Nancy Greer, who after an illness of upwards
of five years passed from this sphere to the “Great
Beyond,” March 31, 1902, at Pima, Arizona.
	Sister East was born in Decalb Co., Georgia,
November 18, 1824. Was baptized a member of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
July 22, 1854, at Fort Sullivan, Texas, and was
married to Edward W. East at the age of fifteen.
She was the mother of eleven children, three of
whom survive her.
	In the early morning of September 11, 1854,
while lying in bed, praying to God for a convinc-
ing testimony for some of her relatives, the
gift of tongues rested upon her. She arose,
walked into the front yard and commenced speak-
ing. Before she had finished talking, which was
about fifteen minutes, many of the neighbors as
well as relatives had assembled and listened
eagerly to the inspired words as they fell from her
lips, she interpreting the same.
	In June, 1855, in company with her husband
and other emigrants she left her home in Texas
for Salt Lake City, arriving there in September of
the same year, where they resided for twenty-two
years, during which time she labored diligently
and faithfully in many positions of trust as a
Relief Society officer.
	Sister East accompanied her husband on a mis-
sion to Texas in 1872, where she bore a strong
testimony of the truth to many who had never be-
fore heard the Gospel.
	Brother East and family moved to Apache Co.,
Arizona, in June, 1877, where she held the re-
sponsible position of Stake president of the Relief
Society until 1882, when she and her family went
to the Gila. Here she was sustained as president
of the Relief Society of the St. Joseph Stake of
Zion when it was first organized in June, 1882,
and worked with undaunted energy for the cause
of truth and righteousness, ever having in mind
the welfare of her sister associates, until in the
winter of 1898 she was, through physical disabili-
ty, unable longer to perform the duties of presi-
dent.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That we, her colaborers in the great
work of love, express our appreciation of her
counsel, her example and her love of the divine,
which were manifested so prominently in all her
labors, and which we have enjoyed by our associa-
tion with her.
	That we, the members of the Relief Society of
St. Joseph Stake, emulate her noble traits of
character, of faith and charity, and her devotion
to her religion.
	That we insert a copy of these resolutions in our
records, that one be sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication and that one be placed
in the hands of the bereaved family.
			MARY L. RANSOM,
			SARAH WEBB.
				Committee.
Pima, Arizona, May 9, 1902.


