ESSAY ON RELIEF SOCIETY WORK.
	This great and noble work was organized
at Nauvoo March 17, 1842, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. It has grown and
increased until now there are over thrirty


thousand members. The organization of
the Relief Society consists of a president
and two counselors, secretary, treasurer,
teachers and members.
	The duties of the teachers are to visit
the homes of the members and non mem-
bers, for the purpose of finding out if any
are in need, or who are sick amongst us, to
administer to their wants and to aid them
spiritually and temporally. So much de-
pends upon the correct reports being
brought by the teachers of the districts
they visit before any special benefit can be
derived from the society. The purpose of
this society is to comfort the poor, re-
lieve the destitute, sustain the widow and
the orphan. What brings greater joy and
satisfaction than to know you are doing
something to help one who is cast down or
who has perhaps fallen by the wayside.
Every kind word spoken gives you courage
and ability to speak another. Every act
of assistance rendered by you through the
knowledge that you possess to aid one of
your fellow beings gives you greater abili-
ty to aid the next one. Good acts grow
upon a person. I have sometimes thought
that many people—judging from their
utter lack of kindness and of a disposition
to aid others—imagine that if they were to
say or do a kind thing it would destroy
their capacity to perform a kind act or
say a kind word in the future. Don’t go
through life with your lips sealed against
words of kindness and encouragement nor
your hearts sealed against performing
labors for another. Make it a motto in life
always to try and assist some one else to
carry his burden. The true way to happi-
ness in life is to labor for the happiness of
others.
	I pity the selfish who have never exper-
enced the joy which comes to those who
receive the thanks and gratitude of the
people whom they may have aided in the
struggle of life.
	The secret of success in our society de-
pends upon unity in our midst; where there
unity there is strength. If we acquire the
habit of fault finding our influence is
weakened. Each member should feel it
her duty to carry out every obligation de-
pending upon her, hence she will gain
greater satisfaction to herself and her
labors would be appreciated by those
placed over her. If we are faithful, diligent
and prayerful, the Lord will bless our
efforts.
	“Let us then be up and doing,
	With a heart for any fate.
	Still achieving, still pursuing.
	Learn to labor and to wait.”
