ANNIE GRIFFITHS.


[Column 1]
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
NOTES.
	Mrs. William Tod Helmuth, representa-
tive of the National Council at the Feder-
ation of clubs in Los Angeles, was en-
tertained by the Local Council of Women
of San Francisco, which Council has for its
head Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, the recently
chosen vice-president of the National
Council.
	The Local Council of San Francisco,
though only a few months old, is most
healthy and vigorous, having thirty organ-
izations affiliated with it and more coming
in at every meeting. Recently they have
been engaged in developing two important

[Column 2]
lines of work: they are pushing forward
the movement to establish School Saving
Banks; and their second effort is in the line
of the Consumers’ League work. They
have recently been visited by Mrs. Florence
Kelly, who has stirred up the Local
Council, and therefore the women of San
Francisco, on the subject of sweat-shops
and general injustice to the small wage
earner.
	The National Christian League for the
Promotion of Social Purity is devoting
much of its time at present to the Peace
Demonstration work. A conference of this
League was held at All Souls’ Church on
May 1, in New York at which many sub-
jects of vital interest were discussed by the
ablest speakers. Much of the serious and
interesting matter was forgotten by the
light-minded in the sensational which at-
tached to the question asked by Mrs.
Lauterback. The question was, “To
what limit should wives submit to
beating?”
	The Social Culture Club of New York,
which is connected with the Christian
League, entertained on the 6th of May the
distinguished poet and author, Edwin
Markham, who spoke on “Individuality
and some Individuals.” The home of
Mrs. Elizabeth B. Grannis, at which the
function was held was crowded with
earnest listeners on this delightful occasion.
	The Supreme Temple of the Rathbone,
Sisters holds its Biennial session the second
week in August, in San Francisco. A
special excursion is arranged from Chicago
to San Francisco for this Biennial. A
most attractive itinerary has been provided.
Mrs. Dell P. Glazier is the Supreme Chief
of this Order.
	Mrs. Josephine Silone Yates, president
of the National Association of Colored
Women, has been filling in the months of
March and April with a lecturing trip from
Washington to Philadelphia, Chicago,
Cleveland, Detroit and St. Louis, and
visiting all her associations in these and
other cities; and she has carried to them a
minute report of the work done at the late
Triennial, and has given them renewed
hope and courage along all the lines of
their work by acquainting them with the
wide field for improvment which exists for
them as well as for all other women in the
National Council and its international
work.
	At the Quinquenninal in London three
years ago, the battle of the American
Revolution was re-fought on psychic lines;
it was the old struggle between republican-
ism and aristocracy, and the former won
the day, so that now the flag of inter-
nationalism is broad enough to cover every
woman in every land or clime, whatever
her color or social standing may be.
	At Los Angeles has been fought again
the Civil War of the Rebellion—as in the
former case along psychic lines. But vic-
tory has perched on the Banner of Retro-
gression. Civilization and light have
reached a point, especially on American
soil, where a backward movoment, such as
that one made at Los Angeles, must neces-
sarily result in the failure, destruction and
dissolution of the forces once so compact
and strong. It is a commentary on social
womanhood and club organizations as com-
pared with the democratic and working


forces of womanhood which are enfolded
within the lines of the National Council of
Women.
	The Fifth Annual Convention of the
Nurses’ Associated Alumnie was held the
first week in May in Chicago. A number
of distinguished speakers graced the occa-
sion, among them being Miss Linda Rich-
ards, Mrs. Bedford Fenwick, Miss L. L.
Dock, Miss G. C. Ross, Miss M. Helena
McMillian and Miss Ann L. Pearse. The
convention was entertained at luncheon by
the Chicago Alumnea, and there was also
a reception tendered by the St Barnabas
Guild for Nurses, beside the one given at
St. Luke’s Home for Nurses. This asso-
ciation grows rapidly in numbers and inter-
est, and is the affiliated society in the
American Federation of Nurses, which
recently entered the National Council.
	The Local Council of Rochester, N. Y.,
as might naturally be supposed, is wrestling
with suffrage problems: what woman that
dwelt within the confines of that city, the
home of Miss Susan B. Anthony, could
fail to be interested in any question so
much as in the question of suffrage? Just
now this Council has centered all its forces
on obtaining School Suffrage for women.
	The Local Council of Portland, Me.,
which has been in active existence for ten
years and which has an average member-
ship of three thousand, has recently moved
out of private quarters into a public hall
for its monthly meetings. This Council is
in communication with the Local Council
of New Zealand and exchanges papers and
Year Books with mutual advantage This
Council is so close to Canada that much
interest is felt in the splendid work done
by the women of Canada.
	There is a movement originating in
Philadelphia, for the establishment of a
Pan-Racial Congress. Some very eminent
men are connected with the movement. It
is an endeavor to bring into harmonious
relations, on broad lines, the various races
of this earth. The president of the Con-
gress is Mr. J. P. Jones, of 261 North
Sixth St., Philadelphia, Pa. This gentle-
man recently wrote to Mrs. May Wright
Sewall saying that they had decided to ap-
point a Board of Lady Managers to co-oper-
ate with the men engaged in this work;
but, in accordance with her suggestion,
they have determined to include women in
the personnel of the Board itself. Mrs.
Sewall has accepted the position on this
Board. Further developments of this
movement will be watched with interest.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall has recently
received a request for literature of the
National Council and its work, from far-off
Turkey in Asia, the applicant being Man-
sug Khidichian, of the town of Kerassunde.
	[From the office of Susa Young Gates,
Chairman Press Committee, National Coun-
cil of Women, Provo City, Utah.]


