HOPE IN FACTORIES.
	Miss Auten looks forward to a “gradual
displacement of the small shop and the
system of home work by the factory sys-
tem.” However, such a displacement
does not seem imminent, for if the work
can be done at present on the present basis
of low wages, and no commensurable ex-
pense—outside of rents and sewing mach
ines—it would hardly be considered a good
business move to make a change. 
	Besides laying stress on the improved
conditions which large factories would
make possible, Miss Auten recommends an
education of the classes of workers in
cleanliness and ventilation. When work-
ing twelve and sixteen hours a day and
keeping windows closed to save coal they
can hardly be expected to feel much inter-
est in their health or appearance. She also
recommends the organization of unions
wherever practicable.
	In considering how these changes are to
be brought about Miss Auten mentions the
possibility of federal legislation because of
the widespread character of the industry.
There are only twelve or fifteen states
which have any factory legislation and
what there is, is entirely inadequate to the

[Column 3]
conditions. She thinks that restriction of
immigration might well be the first measure
undertaken.
	“Illinois passed her first factory in-
spection laws in 1893. They provide that
all garments shall not be manufactured in
living rooms, except by members of the
immediate families; that all shops shall be
kept clean and free from vermin and con-
tagion.” Besides they provided for the
destruction of clothing found where there
was contagion, that no child under 14
should be employed; that affidavits for any
child between 14 and 16 must be signed by
parent or guardian; and that women could
not be employed more than eight hours a
day. Illinois has only a small force of
eleven factory inspectors, and the open
violation of these legislative enactments is
most common. The appropriation in
llinois in 1897 was $15,000--one-fourth of
what New York appropriates, and less
than one-sixth of what Massachusetts has.

