WAGES FALLING STEADILY.
	Miss Auten has taken up the change in
wages and prices during the last few years
and she has found it worthy a detailed re-
port. For instance, a contractor gets 20
cents for a child’s coat, and out of the
amount he must pay for the making and
get his profit! For a coat he gets 80 cents
where five years ago he received $1.25 and
ten years ago as much as $1 50; for cloaks
and suits he gets from $1 to $1.40. One con-
tractor gets eight cents a pair for knee pants,
and that is less than last year. And yet at
these prices the contractors in many cases
make a good living without much effort.
Prices in coats are one-half of what they
were a few years ago, and the Bohemian
coat makers find the prices still slipping.
	Miss Auten supplemented her personal
investigation by a careful study of the
immediate causes and also by a study of
the legislative position of Illinois and work
done by the Consumers’ league and kindred
organizations. The united Hebrew Chari-
ities has offered some interesting statistics.
About 6 per cent of the 1,918 cases studied
in 1898 were cases of want among sweat-
shop workers, and 8 per cent of the men
who applied for work at the employment
bureau were garment workers.
	The most generally recognized causes of
the abuses and maladjustments in these in-
dustries, Miss Auten says, are the absence
of American ideas and sympathies—a
statement which she explains by saying
that when the immigrants come from the
crowded labor markets of Europe they
have no money to get farther than New
York and their necessity makes it easy for
American employers to get their work at
the lowest price, especially as they crowd
the labor market of New York.
	She speaks, too, of the illiteracy not only
in English but in their native languages.
This illiteracy is undoubtedly due to the
guiding principles of the countries from
which they come, whereby they are kept
in ignorance because of their economic de-
pendence. Miss Auten does not discuss
the larger economical phases except where
she says: “The sweating system surely
works in two directions: If it is true that
the people are poor because their wages are
low, it is equally true that their wages are
low because they are poor.”

