WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column  1]
	THE IMPERIAL PALACE IN BERLIN
	AND OTHER POINTS OF INTEREST.
	The Dome Building faces on one side
the Imperial Palace and on the other
the Royal Museum. It has a large centre
dome and a smaller one on each corner.
At the back of the building flows the river 
Spree. Large gold crosses are placed on 
the center of each tower, while two, one on
each side of the main entrance, are sur-
mounted with gold crowns. Much gold is
also glittering from its roof. It is sur-
rounded on three sides by a lovely park,
where two fountains are constantly throw-
ing their silvery sprays.
	When completed it will be one of the
most costly buildings in the world, nothing
but rock inside and out, with rare statuary
and rich surroundings. Also statuary sur-
mounted by gold crosses is to adorn each en
trance.
	Out through the city gates, where on the
city side the Kaiser is met when he returns,
by the city officials, who with great pomp
welcome him through the gates—we pass
on to see the
	PARLIAMENT BUILDING. 
	This is a magnificent and costly struc-
ture, (said to have cost five millions of dol-
lars.) On its roof, in the centre, is a gold
dome, while each corner is raised in an
elaborate square tower. Here meet the
law-makers of the nation. There are
many rooms, large and richly ornamented,
designated to the different departments of
government.
	The commissioners room has a long
table with chairs on either side with plain
oak ceiling and floor.
	The walking hall is spacious. Here the
august law-makers take a walk when law-
making becomes wearisome. It is a very
imposing room with seats on the sides and
marble floor with ceiling arched and costly.
Through a number of ante-rooms, then
comes a beautiful hall of stucco work with
seats of red cloth, the stucco work making
a magnificent background for each.
Bronze statues of former lawmakers are
here and there through the building.
Up stairs we reach the room where the
delegates assemble, and is known as the
		REICHSTAG.
	The seats number about four hundred,
the name of the owner on the back of each.
The ceiling is a large skylight of a pearl
grey color, with a border of red and vari-
egated colors. The light is clear that shines
through this glass. This hall is much the
shape of a theatre, the seats ranging down
as in the parquette. The speaker’s stand is
elevated, the stenographer’s table under-
neath and a private desk. Elevated still
higher is the president’s chair, which is
beautiful. Of course we had to sit in the
chair and imagine we were the president of
the famous Reichstag, then stand in the
speaker’s stand and think we were address-
ing the House, first the Right and then the
Left. Then to try the member’s seats,
finding them quite comfortable, although
we think they sometimes must be full of
thorns.

[Column 2]
This is an interesting room, and here we
remain some time. One thinks of the
stormy sessions often held here, sometimes
even disgraceful scenes occurring, when
statesmen war with statesmen, some con-
tending for one measure and some for
another.
	Passing up a flight of stairs we reach the
balcony, where a few spectators are some-
times admitted. From this point also
looking downward the hall has the appear-
ance of a very pretty theatre, if the Presi-
dent’s and Speaker’s stands were only a
stage.
	Through cloak rooms and other beautiful
halls with crimson carpets on hall and
stairs nearly an inch thick, which look so
beautiful and rich on the white marble
floors.
	Descending the stairs again, more costly
statuary and busts—we are informed that
these are the spirits of former legislators,
who have done with the laws of this life,
but as these people suppose, they still look
after the affairs with which they were
formerly associated, advising justice, right-
eousness, truth and fidelity.
	This is a noble building, solid as though
hewn in the rock itself. Well may
Germany be proud of its Parliament
House where meets the Reichstag.
	Opposite another entrance to the palace
is a fine monument of Emperor Frederick
William III. This also faces the Royal
Museum and is situated in a lovely park.
	The Emperor is mounted on a horse,
while on the upper part of the pedestal are
statues and figures that represent educa-
tion and the different trades O, these
lovely parks ! Every available spot has a
few trees, a fountain and a monument,
with seats here and there where the weary
may rest.
	Another fountain called the Castle
fountain is in front of another entrance to the
palace, and is the most wonderful yet seen.
Old Neptune of huge dimensions is seated
or reclining on a high pedestal, reaching
out with curious statuary beneath it, while
on the sides, out in the lake made by the
water, serpents send streams of water all
over it. The fountain has a stone casing
of curious design with four female figures
reclining upon it, back of whom other
streams of water pour their volume over
this god of the sea, who holds an immense
spear in his hand.
	By some this is supposed to be the god
of the Rhine. The street here is about
four hundred feet wide with the fountain
near its centre.
	Immediately opposite the palace are the
Imperial stables, a fine building of white
stone. At either end, in a deep recess, is
statuary showing some wonderful feats that
man and the horse can perform. The
figures of both are very large and fill
the recess. Perhaps they commemorate
some brave achievement in battle, such a
wild look is expressed by the animals. One
would suppose this was a palace instead of
a stable, so beautiful is the building.
	The busses and cars all pass here for
“Under the Linden.’’
				Lydia D. Alder.
	Note—-Shortly after our visit to the Imperial
Palace a dispatch was published in the foreign
papers that some one had informed the authorities 
of France that while passing through the palace
he had seen a portion of the fatal Bordereax papers 
renowned in the tragic, world-famed Dreyfus
case, on a desk in the palace. By order of the
Kaiser it was immediately closed to visitors. It

[Column 3]
is to be regretted, for the State apartments are
gems beyond description and give one an appre-
ciation of what splendor the precious things of the
earth, combined with the experience of man, can
produce.—L. D. A.


