DISTINGUISHED WOMEN.
	Tuesday, May 13, the New York dele-
gation of women who had been in Los
Angeles attending the Biennial of the
Federation of Clubs, paid a flying visit to
Salt Lake City on their homeward trip.
	Arrangements had been made before-
hand to entertain them by committees ap-
pointed from the two great organizations of
women, viz., the Relief Society and Y. L.
N. M. I. A., and the plans formulated
were carried out very successfully, except
that the R. R. train was two hours late.
However they were met at the station by a
number of ladies in carriages and escorted
to the Tabernacle and listened to the Re-


cital given in their honor, Professor J. J.
McClellan organist. The music rendered
included Guilmont’s “Third Organ Sona-
ta,” the popular “Baccherini Minuet,”
Mendelssohn’s “SpringSong,” “Schubert’s
Litany,” Batiste’s “Communion in G” and
the overture to Lohengrin. These were
all given in the most excellent style and
raptuiously received. There were also
two celebrated vocalists, Miss Emma Lucy
Gates and Mr. Heber S. Goddard.
	Miss Gates sang the “Ave Maria” from
the “Cavaleria Rusticana,” and responded
to an encore with “Sing Sweet Bird.”
Mr. Goddard sang, in his very best style,
Nevin’s “Divine Redeemer.”
	The ride to Saltair was the next part of
the program fcr the entertainment of the
celebrated guests. At 2:15 the party were
aboard the train and headed for Saltair, a
very cheerful company chatting and mak-
ing acquaintance with the visitors. There
were many more of the strangers than of
the Salt Lake people; among these, how-
ever, were President Brigham Young and
wife and Attorney General Breeden and
wife, also President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Mrs. Joseph F. Smith, wife of the
President of the Church, and members of
the General Board of the Relief Society
and of the Y. L. N. M. I. A. Mrs. Wm.
Tod Helmuth, President of the National
Council of Women, Mrs.T.St.John’sGaffney
Honorary President of the National Council
of Women, and her daughter, Jayta
Humphreys, and their special friends were
the principal members of the party, for
whom we had arranged, but we were
very pleased indeed to meet the newly
elected President of the General Federation
Mrs. Denison, of New York, and also Mrs.
Cynthia W. Alden, President-General of the
Sunshine Society, was with the party, and
was gladly welcomed by us. A few of the
ladies enjoyed a bath in the Lake, though
the temperature was very cold. The other
members of the party walked about talking
and admiring the beautiful scenery until
the call for train.
	In the evening an elaborate reception
was held at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
Alonzo E. Hyde to which all the ladies were
invited. The parlors and dining room
were profusely though tastefully decorated
with flowers and trailing vines, lovely
lilacs, white and lavender, and on the
table were delicate vases filled with carna-
tions, adding beauty and brilliancy to the
picture. The young girls who served the
ces and cake were daintily attired in light
fabrics and made their part of the program
charmingly interesting. Mrs. Helmuth
and Mrs. Gaffney stood to receive the entire
evening with Mrs. Hyde, the hostess, and
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall and Mrs.
Susa Young Gates. The guests were
President Joseph F. Smith and wife, also
President Anthon H. Lund, Apostle John
Henry Smith and Apostle Heber J. Grant
and wife, Secretary Hammond and wife
and other noted people of the city. The
ladies left early in order to take the train.
	Since then news has reached here that
Dr. Wm. Tod Helmuth died suddenly in
New York City while his wife was en route
the telegram reaching Mrs. Helmuth at
Denver. We extend to Mrs. Helmuth our
most sincere sympathy in her sad bereave-
ment and pray the Lord to bless and com-
fort her and give her strength to endure
this trying ordeal.


