PRESIDENT NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

Fannie Ida Helmuth, born in New York
City, of patriotic family, twenty-two mem-
bers having fought in the Revolution on
the American side. Ancestors lived in
New York from 1672, but during her early
childhood her parents moved to St. Louis,
where her father entered business as a
banker, and was the organizer, captain and
afterwards colonel, of the first company of
militia of the National guards in that
city.
Took a keen interest in charitable work
of all kinds from the time she was ten
years old, and especially in the Orphans’
Home of St. Louis, of which her mother
was first directress.
Was the first woman to drive over the
Steel arch bridge constructed at St. Louis
across the Mississippi River by the well
known engineer, Captain James B. Eads,
the captain being her escort. Was also the
first woman to make the trip on the
Missouri Pacific Railroad to Indian Terri-
tory, and the first on the Ohio and Missis-
sippi, after the opening of those roads and
the retirement of stage coaches.
Was married to William Tod Helmuth,
in St. Louis, February 10, 1859—three
children, two of them are living.
Has always taken great interest and
pride in her husband’s advancement in his
profession, and his welfare is always con-
sidered first. She and her husband moved
to New York in 1870, and three hospitals
in that city had their beginning in her
house. On one occasion $100,000 was
raised in two weeks, during the first year 
she was in New York, by means of a fair,
for the benefit of one of these hospitals.
For another a fair was given and $10,000
was realized.
Mrs. Helmuth also founded and for
eleven years was president of the Woman’s
Guild of the New York Homoeopathic
Medical College and Hospital.
Visited Japan in 1892. The party was
caught in a typhoon on the way to Myon-
oshita, and was in great danger for several
hours. It was only by the strenous
efforts of Dr. and Mrs. Helmuth that the
frightened guides could be induced to go
forward to safety. On the way home, two
days out from Yokohama, the ship was dis-
covered to be on fire in one of the large
compartments. Finding it impossible to
control the flames the captain made for the

[Column 2]
port of Hakodadi, in northern Japan,
which was not reached for thirty-six
hours, and assistance obtained.
Mrs. Helmuth is fond of art in all forms,
especially paintings. Also of old china,
and is extremely proficient in embroidery.
She and her husband were connected with
the St. Louis Sanitary Fair Commission,
and had charge of the Art Department.
Became a member of Sorosis in February
1876, not many years after it was founded,
and held various offices. Although her
first election to the presidency was opposed
by some her re-election was unanimous, as
she had won the confidence of all during
the administration of her first term. She
served also on the Executive Committee
many terms.
In 1894 was elected vice-president of the
New York State Federation of Women’s
Clubs, acting for one year of her term in 
the place of the president, during the ill-
ness of that officer. Was then elected
President in 1896-98, and re elected 1898-
1900, thus serving as President of that
body longer than any one else. Upon the
expiration of her term of office she was, on
November 19, 1900, presented with a
loving cup by the clubs over whom she
had for so long, as well as so gracefully
and acceptably presided, the presentation
taking place at the close of the convention
in the Assembly Chamber in the Capital at
Albany, where the sessions had been held
A former associate officer writes of her:
“She has great skill in conducting large
meetings as a presiding officer of exper-
ience and ability. In the chair she is just
and impartial, with a ready wit, even
temper and enduring physique, which en- 
able her at all times to hold her h[-]use well
in hand. The distinguishing point of the
large conventions over which she has pre-
sided as State President is the apparent
ease with which she maintained order and
peace often in the face of unpromising pos-
sibilities. By her work in the chair she
turned the New York State Federation
from a small and imperfectly bound organ-
ization, with many factions, into a close-
knit whole of united mind. The loving
cup was the recognition of the Federation
of these facts.”
Mrs Helmuth has been elected honorary
member of many organizations both in
this country and in Europe. One club of
which she is a member is composed entire-
ly of the wives of physicians. She has
been presented from time to time with
seventy-nine badges, most of them by
clubs throughout the city and state
of New York, in token of the regard in
which she is held.
In 1901 she accepted the chairmanship
of the Industrial School Committee, the
welfare of which she has much at heart, as
it has for its object to provide a non-sec-
tarian school where girls may receive
training necessary to become self-support-
ing in occupations other than those
afforded by stores, etc. 
Also in 1901 she founded in New York
City the “West Point Chapter of the


Daughters of the American Revolution.” 
	At the present time she is the president
of the National Council of Women.—Club
Bulletin.


