MEDICAL CONGRESS IN NEW YORK.
	The “American Congress of Tuberculo-
sis,” one of the most notable medical
gatherings in the world, convenes in the
Majestic hotel in New York, May 14, 15
and 16, 1902. It includes the Canadies,
United States, South and Central American
States. It will be conducted on the same
lines as the European Congress held in
London, July, 1901, where the leading
physicians, scientists, statesmen and phil-
anthropists of Europe assembled.
	One of the leading questions coming be-
fore the Congress will be the establishment
of State Sanatariums for hygienic treatment
of tuberculous patients. One-fifth of all
deaths occur from this cause, and through-
out Europe where Sanatariums have been
established the death role has been reduced
one-half.
	In addition to the president, Hon. Henry
D. Holten of Vermont, there are seventy-
five vice-presidents and honorary vice-
presidents. The honorary vice-presidents
are selected from the governors of states
and presidents of the South and Central
American States.
	A museum has been established and will
be open during the Congress—collections
of drugs, photographs of sanitary districts,
biological specimens, etc, 
	Governor Heber M. Wells, honorary
vice-president for Utah, has appointed
delegates who will attend the coming
session, and Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon,
who was appointed vice-president for Utah
last November, contributes to the Museum
a fine collection of photographic views of
sanitary districts, health resorts, bathing
places and general points of interest in and
around Salt Lake City, statistical and
meteorological rep[-]rts of the State and a
paper on climatic influences in Utah.
	Considering educational work has al-
ready been done in Utah along this line, it
is befitting Utah as an equal suffrage state,
that so far she is the only one to which the
courtesy of a vice-president has heen ex-
tended to a woman.


A replice of the statue of LaFayette erec-
ted in Paris and paid for by American
school children, is to be presented to the
city of Washington.


Woman's Exponent.


[Column 1]
TO THE SISTERS.
L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.
You who are stationed at the outer ports
	Of Zion’s bulwarks, laboring with your might,
Should have some glimpses of her inner courts,
And her “First Lady” calls on me to write.

It is so sweet and beautiful to hear
	Inspired souls their holy thoughts rehearse,
That I will try to give you, sisters dear,
	A few of our new President’s in verse.
  
