RED CROSS MEETS.
	The executive committee of the Red
Cross met at the state department today,
May 13. There were present Gen. John
M. Wilson, vice-president William F.
Michael, Mrs. John A. Logan, Miss Mabel
Bowman, Mrs. Warner, Mrs. Clara Sarah
Spencer and Secretary Briggs Miss Clara
Barton, the president is now en route for
St. Petersburg as a delegate to the Red
Cross convention there.
	After conferences with Secretary Hay
and Secretary Root, a delegation went
to the White House and conferred with
President Roosevelt, with the result that
the following appeal was issued tonight by
Vice-President Wilson.
RED CROSS APPEAL.
	The National American Red Cross ap-
peals to the people of the United States to
send money and supplies in aid of the
suffers at Martinque and St. Vincent. The
unparalleled calamity needs no words of
eloquence to arouse the active aid and
sympathy of our people. We therefore ask
you to act promptly and generously.
Money and supplies can be sent to Cornel-
ius Bliss of New York City, or money may
be sent direct to W. J. Flather, the treasur-
er of the American National Red Cross
Association, at Riggs bank, Washington.
All such contributions, whether in money
or supplies, intended for the Red Cross
should be so marked.
					John M. Wilson.
First Vice-President American National
	Red Cross.
	Dr. Richard Klopsch, proprietor of the
Christian Herald, New York, called at the
war department today offering to furnish
fifty nurses, thirty male and twenty female,
and 1,000 barrels of flour for the stricken
islands and to be contributed by the
Christian Herald.


The Empress of Japan takes a great in-
terest in all that concerns the nation, from
the rice crops upward and downward. The
Empress is said to have a talent for liter-
ature and to write beautiful poetry. A
poem of hers set to music is sung in the
schools all over the land.


108					Woman's Exponent

Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. ,to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						Salt Lake City, Utah
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter. 

