[Vol2 | October 1915 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy B. Lyman]
Notes  from  the  Field. 
By  the  General  Secretary,  Mrs.  Amy  B.  Lyman. 
Mrs.  Grace  Callis  has  recently  been  appointed  president  of  the 
ReHef  Society  of  the  Southern  States  Mrs.  Callis  is  the  wife  of 
President  Charles  A.  Callis,  of  the  Southern  States  Mission,  and 
was  appointed  by  Elder  Rudger  Clawson  at  the  request  of  Pres- 
ident Emmeline  B.  Wells,  during  his  recent  visit  to  the  South. 
Mrs.  Callis  was  set  apart  July  27,  1915.  Elder  Clawson  reports 
that  Relief  Society  organizations  have  been  effected  in  Jackson- 
ville, Atlanta,  Memphis  and  Greenville,  as  well  as  in  several  of 
the  country  districts  of  the  South. 
As  an  example  of  the  interest  taken  by  the  Relief  Society  in 
public  work  and  civic  improvement,  we  have  only  to  refer  to  some 
of  the  work  done  during  the  last  year.  The  Eagar  ward  of  the  St. 
Johns  stake,  during  the  year  1914,  paid  for  one  hundred  dollars 
worth  of  work  on  the  town  roads,  while  the  Manassa  ward,  of  the 
San  Luis  stake,  paid  thirty-three  dollars  in  prize  money  for  flies. 
It  is  not  generally  known  that  in  the  Maricopa  stake  there 
has  been  for  some  years  a  very  interesting  Indian  ward  Relief 
Society  known  as  the  Papago  ward.  The  president  of  this  ward 
is  teaching  sewing  and  quilting  and  darning,  and  is  making  an 
effort  to  teach  the  members  to  speak  English.  In  this  latter  work 
she  is  assisted  very  materially  by  her  counselor  who  is  a  graduate 
of  the  Indian  school  at  Phoenix,  and  is  a  very  bright  and  interest- 
ing young  mother. 
The  report  comes  from  one  ward  that  because  of  the  absence 
of  the  president  and  first  counselor.  Relief  Society  meetings  were 
suspended  for  many  weeks.  It  should  be  understood  by  all  that 
Relief  Society  meetings  should  never  be  postponed.  In  case  a 
president  is  absent  it  is  the  duty  of  the  first  counselor  to  go  on  with 
the  work ;  in  case  of  the  absence  of  both  it  falls  to  the  lot  of  the 
second  counselor  to  see  that  meetings  are  held  and  to  conduct 
the  same,  and  so  on  down  the  line  of  officers.  As  a  rule,  a  society 
should  be  reorganized  when  the  president  must  be  absent  for  any 
length  of  time 
The  St.  George  stake  reports  that  since  taking  up  the  work 
of  Genealogy  and  Temple  work,  the  attendance  at  meetings  has 
greatly  increased.  A  temple  excursion  from  Emery  stake  has 
been  reported. 
The  Relief  Society  of  the  St.  Charles  ward.  Bear  Lake  stake, 
has  during  the  year  taken  special  entertainment  and  good  cheer 
to  the  homes  of  thirty  aged  women  and  widows.
