[Vol2 | October 1915 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Genealogy - Sources of Information]

Genealogy. LESSON III. November 16. sources of information. Sources of Genealogical Information: 1. Personal information on hand. 2. Bibles; information on loose papers, temple forms, etc. 3. Information from living relatives and friends. 4. Writing to relatives, parish clerks, ministers, etc. (Forms for reply may be had at the Genealogical Society's office.) 5. Tradition and its uses; tombstone inscriptions. 6. Library research. Home and foreign. The student should get out all loose papers, old letters, old Temple books, and from these copy in a pencil note-book first,
every possible name with dates, real or approximated; properly number each name, state the relationship to the heir; and after this has been done in the note-book, copy it carefully ? where it is pedigreed information of the dead ? into a Family Record for Temple use. This done, the student will wish to know where next to turn for further information. Correspondence with living relatives and friends, with parish priests, pastors, and clerks in the town from which the student emigrated, from or whence his parents and progenitors came ? these sources of information must next be tried. Letter writing, on this subject, is of a peculiar importance. The writer must exercise tact and wisdom. He or she must write courteously and fully, must state exactly what is wanted, and give enough information to elicit the data which is desked from the person who receives the letter. We suggest that such writers always enclose stamps for reply as well as the forms prepared by the Genealogical Society of Utah, a copy of which we give here. Your own data which you send for purpose of identification may be also written on this form. Write dozens, nay hundreds of times, if necessary. Write again and again and again, until your friends will answer you. Never give up until you have exhausted your stamps and patience. QUESTIONS. What are the sources of information? What should first be done by the genealogical student? To whom should letters be written? Let each student write a sample letter asking a relative or a parish clerk for genealogical information. Note. ? Such students as are familiar with the lessons, so far given, should now center their efforts on instructing and helping others.