Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" POLYNESIA: Polynesia, or the region of many islands, is the name _ usually given... To the numerous groups of islands and some few single islands scattered throughout the great Pacific ocean between the eastern shores of Asia and the western shores of America. The principal groups of Polynesia are... The Sandwich Islands, Tonga, or the Friendly Islands, the Marquesas group and many other scattered islands.... Most of the islands and especially the largest are volcanic in their origin, and some are coraline. 'The volcanic islands some of which have peaks varying in height from one to fourteen thousand feet are often distinguished as the high islands.... The islands of coraline formation are low and generally small. —Emma Jenson A VISIT TO SUMMIT STAKE:... In Rock Springs, Wyoming, we are cordially met by the president of the Relief Society and the Bishop's wife and several others... And we must here express our pleasure at the nice little meeting house that the Saints own in this far off settlement. At 2 p. M. We hold a Relief Society meeting.... At Evanston we are met by the Relief Society president and others. We go to the president's home for dinner and then to a meeting.... And each time how it makes our hearts swell with gratitude to our Heavenly Father for his goodness to His people, for here again is another cosy meeting house and some good sisters. We have a profitable meeting, then go to Almy.... We are taken to Bishop Boun's home by his whole-souled wife. It is a comfortable home situated on the side of a hill overlooking the whole place and has the loveliest garden.... We call on several sisters then at 2 p. M., we hold meetings again.... There were several other settlements we were to visit, but the season being so far advanced... It was deemed wisdom to postpone it until a future time. —Jennie A TWILIGHT REVERIE I'm sitting in the twilight, the sweetest hour of all, The hour when day is dying and dusk begins to fall The past within my memory locked, holds all its charm for me. The future dim, uncertain, calls silently from afar, With faith and love for a motto, and hope for a guiding star. —Ethel B. Ferguson THE NEW YEAR 1898: This people did not come into these valleys with the expectation of great wealth, on the contrary they came from religious motives, and that they might have a safe abiding place for themselves and those who desired to gather with them to build up Zion, and endeavor to keep the commandments of God. And year after year their number and possessions have increased; they have extended their borders and built up towns and cities, temples and institutions of learning, and made the waste places beautiful, and the land a delight to all —Editorial Page 30 RS. BELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of the Relief Society, was honored October 31, 1957, by the Utah State Conference on Social Welfare. At a luncheon meeting, Mrs. Spafford was made a life member of this organization in recognition of her contribution to the field of human welfare. UEEN ELIZABETH II of Great Britain opened the Canadian Parliament October 14, 1957, the first monarch ever to perform this function. She wore her white satin, jewel-encrusted coronation gown. Later, she spent six days in Eastern United States. In both countries she won the hearts of the people. Still youthful, beautiful, charming, and radiant, she is regarded as having grown in strength and self-assurance since her accession to the throne. Expressing her desire for world peace, she extended encouragement to the United Nations and others working toward that end. ISS BABINGTON-SMITH, a granddaughter of the ninth Earl of Elgin, named by President Truman as "the outstanding Allied authority on the interpretation of photographs of aircraft," is the author of Air Spy, a book which describes her outstanding work during World War II. Harper and Brothers are the publishers.