[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson III Genealogy and Literature]

GUIDE LESSONS. 
 THE FIRST CHRISTMAS DAY. "And there were in the same country, shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by nigiht. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were so' e afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to ah people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you: Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. "And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men" (Luke 2:8-14). Around the name of Christmas is a halo of sweet songs and stories, but none can ever be dearer to the hearts of true Christians than this simple first tale of the birth of the Christ child. In these troublous, tragic times, the words of the heavenly host seem more sanctified than ever. A prayer must be in every Godfearing heart to hasten the day when there will be peace on earth, good will toward men. Read the story aloud and listen to the melting music of its lines. Think of the picture it suggests; read Ben Hur, with its fanciful story, and see how Lew Wallace Has brought these pictures out for use in vivid intensity. The following paragraph of the first Christmas eve is taken from his chapter on the coming of the angels to the shepherds: "That night, like most nights in the winter season in the hill country, was clear, crisp, and sparkling with stars. There was no wind; the atmosphere seemed never so pure. And the stillness was more than silence; it was a holy birth, a warning that heaven was stooping low to whisper some good thing to the listening earth." Following this he gives in dramatic form the story of the coming of the angel to the shepherds, of the singing of the heavenly host, and the visit of the shepherds to see the babe in the manger. Ben Hur is one of the greatest of stories based on the life of the Savior. Yet nothing compares with the Bible itself. Another tale that has won great fame is The Story of the Other Wise Man, by Henry Van Dyke. The spirit of the true Christian is portrayed in a remarkable way in this story. It deals with an imagined fourth wise man who failed to meet the other 
 three magi at the appointed time and place, and spent his lite in search of the Savior  a life of sacrifice, sorrow and noble deeds. His quest seemed unfruitful till at the last in his dying moments he was given the vision of his Master, and he passed to his rest, knowing he had found the Savior whom he had so faithfully followed all his days. A simpler Christmas story  on which children of all ages from ninety to nine enjoy  is The Birds' Christmas Carol, by Kate Douglas Wiggin. It pictures the two extremes of city life. Carol Rird, a rich little girl but an invalid, becomes interested in the ragged little Ruggleses. who live in a kind of "poverty flat" near the Bird mansion. Mrs. Ruggles is a hard-working widow with a large family on her hands. Christmas is coming, and Carol decides to invite the Ruggles children to dinner. The excitement caused by this unexpected lionor, the preparations made for them to appear "in style," the drills that Mrs. Ruggles gives her unruly youngsters in "manners" are very amusing; yet underneath it all is a sweet pathos, and a life lesson on which the reader loves to linger. Another Christmas Carol is that written by Charles Dickens. This has become a classic. and is usually studied in our schools. The theme is the redemption of Scrooge, a miserly old business man and a bachelor, whose love of the dollar has driven every instinct out of his lite and left him sordid and lonely. 1'is partner. Jacob Marley, appears to Scrooge in a dream. Mar ley has been dead for sonic years and he returns to warn Scrooge. of the fate that awaits him if he does not change his life. Then appear in turn three ghosts  the ghosts of the Christmas Past, the Christmas Present, and the Christmas of the Future. Scrooge is taken by the ghost of the past over the scenes of his boyhood; the ghost of the Christmas present asks him to sec the joys of the Christmas time which he has long ceased to share; and the ghost of the future shows him the end towards which his selfish life is leading. In his terror Scrooge wakes from the dream strongly resolved to mend his ways, and he keeps his resolve in a most generous way thereafter. The charming pictures of Christmas, the sweet wholesomeness of the holiday spirit that the story reveals make this a tale that continues to give delight to all. It should lxread every year in our schools and homes. The spirit of Christmas is reflected also by many delightful songs and poems of various kinds. Among the earliest of these are the quaint old carols still sung on Christmas morning in merry cal of England these: and elsewhere. The following stanzas are typiAs Joseph was a walking He heard the angel sing, "This shall be the birth-night, Of Christ our heavenly king. "His birth bed shall be neither In housen nor in hall, Nor in the place of paradise, But in the oxen's stall. From As Joseph Was a Walking. God rest you merry, gentlemen, Let nothing you dismay, For Jesus Christ our Savior, Was born upon this day, To save us all from Satan's power, When we were gone astray. From "God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen." Among the other time-honored Christmas songs are "The Cradle Hymn," by Martin Luther, and "Silent Night, Holy Night," by Von Weber, which are perhaps best known. The sweet simplicity of their soulful lines make them live forever with us. Following is the opening stanza of the last named song: Holy night, silent night, All is calm, all is bright, Round yon Virgin mother and child, Holy infant, so tender and mild, Sleep in heavenly peace, Sleep in heavenly peace. Luther's "Cradle Hymn" is to be found in the Deseret Sunday School Song Book, No. 214. These and other sweet Christmas hymns should often be heard in our homes. Other delightful Christmas poems for children  and grown folks too are "The Very Rest Kind of Christmas Tree," by Henry Van Dyke; "Piccola," Celia Thaxter; "A Real Santa Clans," Frank D. Sherman; "The Fool's Christmas," Florence May Alt. As a final word to close this pleasant task of outlining these few lessons on "Literature for the Home," the writer of these 
 lessons would express appreciation for the kindly spirit with which the lessons have been received, and offer the hope that the seeds sown through them may find constant expression in better books, choicer stories and songs in our homes, and the sharing of these riches constantly around the family fireside. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Name the ten subjects that have been taken up in the course on "Literature for the Home," during the year. 2. What choice thought has come from this study to you? What practical result has come from the course and found expression in your life or home? 3. For this last lesson of the series, we suggest that a program be planned on "Christmas in Song and Story." Some such outline as the following might well be followed: (a) Christmas Song, "Holy Night," or another. (b) Reading of St. Luke 2:8-14. The First Christmas Story, or have selections from Ben Hur  (two or three pages) taken from the chapter of the Angel and the Shepherds. (c) Telling of the story of The Other Wise Man. Christmas. Luther's Cradle Hymn, or another suggestive of (d) (e) Birds' Christmas Carol, readings from this story. (f) Solo, "The Children's Friend," or some other story appropriate to the occasion. (g) Reading of one or two poems named in this article, (h) Closing song. LESSON IV. Home Economics.