[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson III Genealogy and Literature]

LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in December. OUTLINES OF ANCIENT HISTORY. It is necessary for the student who wishes to become acquainted with the tribes of the earth, as they descended from Father Adam, to review succinctly the historical chronology as given in the Bible, with a little reference to the Book of Mormon and Pearl of Great Price. It is our purpose to frame an historical and genealogical ladder which shall reach from our present times back to Father Adam. We have given only the tables and outlines of sacred history in this lesson. The student and teacher should refer to the Bible to substantiate and further illustrate the matter provided in this lesson. Such of our Societies as purchased Smith's Old Testament History will find much assistance briefly prepared in that excellent book. We suggest, however, that too much time be not spent upon this lesson, unless the students care to meet once a week in the evening, as they already do in some of our stakes and wards, to supplement the study which we offer here as a monthly lesson. HISTORICAL OUTLINES OF SACRED HISTORY. Introductory. (a) Malachi 4:5. "Behold I will send you Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord."(b) "And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers; if it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." (As quoted by the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith.) 
 Importance of this work. (a) Doc. and Cov. 110:127, 128. (b) An unbroken chain made by saviors upon Mt. Zion who labor in temples. (c) St. John 20:12. "The U>oks were opened; and another book was opened, which is the Rook of Life; and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." (d) Importance of keeping records accurately. (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 128:8. (e) Vicarious work. Not a modern work. History. A domoic Dispensation. (a) Adam  inspired to read and write  taught children. (b) Enoch  seventh century  called to preach  vision  genealogies. (Slow of speech.) (See Pearl of Great Price.) i c I Methuselah  Enoch's son left on earth to fulfil promise. (d) Noah  flood  three sons and families saved. (e) Peleg  earth divided to the families of the sons of Noah after their generations, in their nations. (f) Tower of Rabel  confusion of tongues. (See Genesis, chapter eleven.) (g) Jared and those with him not confused, led to a promised land  barges  record made. (See Rook of Ether, R. of M.) Hebrew Dispensation. (a) Abram or Abraham: promise to him. (b) Isaac (Rebecca). Ishmael (Hagar). Descendants: Hebrews from Isaac; Arabs and Edomites from Tshmael. (c) Midian, son of Keturah. Father of Midianites. (d) Lot, father of Moabites and Ammonites. (e) Jacob (Israel) : Leah and Rachel, twelve sons. ( f) Esau, father of Edomites. (g* Joseph; his two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh. Israel in Egypt. three Seventy million persons returned went b400 down years to after Egypt in Joseph's under Moses. day; nearly Retained their own manners, language, religion and patriarchal government, but were in bondage. Religions of the Ancient World. 1. Monotheism  belief in one God. 2. Polytheism  belief in many gods. 3. Pantheism  nature as the supreme being. (A circle.) Mosaic Dispensation. (a) Moses the law-giver, slow of speech. Tablets of stone. Gave genealogies of people in Numbers. (b) Deliverance  Land of Canaan. (c) Joshua governed 25 years. Inheritance by lot. (d) Levites. (e) Fifteen judges. Samuel the last. (f) Three kings  Saul, David and Solomon. (g) Kingdom of Israel divided, B. C. 975: Judah (Rhehcboam), Judah and Benjamin; Israel (Jeroboam), ten tribes. (h) Revolt of the Ten Tribes. (i) Kingdom of Israel; nine different dynasties; nineteen kings; 225 years. (j) Shalmanezer, king of Assyria, took Israel captive (200,- 000), ending the national history of the Ten Tribes. 722 B. C. (k) Kingdom of Judah survived Israel 135 years, having but one dynasty and 20 kings. The Jewish Captivity. (a) King Zedekiah, the last king of Judah, ascended the throne 581 B. C. (b) Zedekiah carried captive to Babylon, 589 B. C. Sons slain; eyes put out. Jerusalem taken. Temple burned. People taken to Babylon. Lehi left Jerusalem during Zedekiah's reign before captivity. (c) Colony in Chaldea; comforted in captivity by the prophets; chastised for their disobedience and transgressions. (d) During captivity Babylonian Empire overthrown by Medo-Persian Empire, 538 B. C. Media, descendants of Madai. son of Japheth; Persia, Aryans, akin to the Medes. (e) Cyrus found Jews an oppressed race in whose religion he discovered a considerable resemblance to his own. (Zoroaster) (Daniel 43:36"). Permitted Ezra and Nehemiah to return to Jerusalem with a large concourse. (f) Temple rebuilt. 521-516-515; dedicated. (g) Samaritans, descendants of the original Ten Tribes, mixed later by frequent intermarriage with the heathen nations. (h) Ahasuerus (Xerxes), a Persian, married Esther 473 B. C. (i) Ezra led back another colony to Jerusalem 458 B. C. Stopped all intermarriages with other nations. (j) Ezra and Nehemiah arranged books of the Old Testament; rebuilt walls of city and fortified it under arms. Note: "Babylonian captivity thoroughly cured Jews of idolatry. Henceforth avoided mingling with idolatrous nations." 
 Semitic idolatrous polytheism vanished. Pure spiritual monotheism advanced. The Ten Tribes in the North Country. (a) Ten Tribes started for Canaan but traveled north. In one and one-half years achieved 2,800 miles. Burdened with their flocks and herds, and the old and inform. (b) Led by the Lord to a land in the north. Were they the ancestors of the Teutons? (c) Danish mounds were graves with jewels and trinkets. Danish manner of burying dead similar to habits of Israelites. (d) Legends (Scandinavian). Heaps of stone as landmarks should they wish to return. (e) Israelitish colonies and parts of families left behind; rebellious, infirm, and young. (f) From these remnants it is affirmed sprang the Norsemen and Teutons generally. Old Testament prophecies that Israel, especially Ephraim, should be scattered among the people. Conclusion. European history begins in Greece. "Much of the life we live today, with its political, social and intellectual advantages, its music, painting, oratory and sculpture, its thirst for knowledge and its free institution, was transmitted from the Greek to the Roman, by him to the Teutons, and so handed on to us." (Greece was conquered by the Romans.) MedoPersian Empire was conquered by the Romans who ruled all the country around the Mediterranean. "As at Rome all ancient history converges, so from Rome all modern history be QUESTIONS. gins." What can you say of the mission and immediate descent from Father Adam through Seth? (Read Genesis, chapter 5.) How did Adam learn to write and keep records? (See Pearl of Great Price. Moses 6:5-8; 6:46.) What can you tell of Enoch? How did Noah's three sons settle up the earth? (Genesis, chapter 10.) Who was Peleg? (Genesis 10:25.) When did Jared and his brother go out of the Promised Land? Who are Jacob's twelve sons? When did the Ten Tribes go into the North country? What especial service did Ezra and Nehemiah render to the Jew? What does tradition say about the Danish mounds? Tell what you can of Grecian learning.