Jennie B. Knight We have had a concrete demonstration, I think, this afternoon, of the varied activities of the Relief Society. In visiting the stakes, one of the deep impressions that has come to me has been the masterly way in which our Relief Society women have handled 'the subject of the Book of Mormon, and I want to say that my testimony has been strengthened in the divinity of this great book. I am thankful that we have taken this method of commemorating the one hundredth anniversary of the publication of this Book and I hope that each and every one of us will feel that we have a clearer knowledge of it. In the September issue of the Magazine, 1927, we find Mr. Charles H. Hull, Professor of American History at Cornell University quoted as saying, "I am perfectly willing to say to anyone that I suppose the Book of Mormon to be one of the most famous and widely discussed books ever published in America. I think an arguable case can be made for the assertion that it is the most famous and widely discussed book ever first published in America." And added to that, I can say it is the first American Scripture. To me it is a testimony that our heavenly Father recognized this American continent by giving to it a record of his works and his doctrines through the Book of Mormon, thus bestowing upon us the same favor and blessing that he bestowed upon the eastern hemisphere when he gave to them the Bible. I have been deeply impressed with the testimony of those who have 
 taken part in the discussion of this topic in the Relief Society conventions. The manner in which they have presented the fulfilment of the prophecies that were uttered by the Lamanite Prophet Samuel has been most gratifying. They have related how this prophet told them that on the night of the birth of the Savior there should be a continual day lasting thirty-six hours, and there was. In addition to this a star appeared in the heavens that never before had been seen. Samuel also prophesied of the great earthquakes and thunderings and lightnings and of the cities that should be burned and sunk and of the great desolation and sorrow that should come upon the people because they would not accept the doctrines taught by the Savior. Those who witnessed the star and other special manifestations obeyed the instructions given by the Savior and his disciples for a few years, but it was not long before they dwindled in unbelief. As I take the Book of Mormon and read it, I find in it a prophecy to the Gentiles of blessings that will come to them if they will believe it; it also reveals to the Lamanites their birth and ancestry. No other volume of Scripture pronounces so many wonderful blessings upon the Jews as does this Book of Mormon. I beseech you to read and study it because it will give you courage and faith in this great gospel of ours. I love to read in III Nephi of the visitation of the Savior to the people upon this continent, note how his voice came to the people, out of the midst of thunderings and lightnings and the moaning of the people, declaring, "I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God," and how it was heard by "all the inhabitants of the earth upon all the face of this land.' Before the great invention of the radio, only those who were not skeptical could believe this thing, that his voice could be heard upon all the face of the land. But the Prophet Nephi testified that "all the people did hear and did witness of it." And he told of the cities that had been sunk and of the mountains that had been raised up, and after they had heard this voice they repented of their sins. A little later on we read of his visiting the people of Nephi; gathered in the land Bountiful, around the temple, and I am going to read a little account of this part of his visit. He taught the people concerning the truths he had taught the people in Jerusalem, and I will read this one chapter, in the hope that when you go to your homes that you will re-read it. It says: "Behold, now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words (which are similar to the Sermon on the Mount in the Bible) he looked round about again on the multitude, and he said unto them: Behold my time is at hand., "T perceive that ye are weak, that ye cannot understand all my words which I am commanded of the Father to speak unto you at this time. "Therefore, go ye unto your homes, and ponder upon the things which I have said, and ask of the Father, in my name, that ye may understand, and prepare your minds for the morrow, and I come unto you again, CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 29 "But now I go unto the Father, and also to show myself unto the lost tribes of Israel, for they are not lost unto the Father, for he knoweth whither he hath taken them.; "And it came to pass that when Jesus had thus spoken, he cast his eyes round about again on the multitude, and beheld they were in tears, and did look steadfastly upon him as if they would ask him to tarry a little longer with them. "And he said unto them: Behold, my bowels are filled with compassion towards you. "Have ye any that are sick among you? Bring them hither. Have ye any that are lame, or blind, or halt, or maimed, or leprous, or that are withered, or that are deaf, or that are afflicted in any manner? Bring them hither and I will heal them, for I have compassion upon you; my bowels are filled with mercy. "For I perceive that ye desire that I should show unto you what I have done unto your brethren at Jerusalem, for I see that your faith is sufficient that I should heal you. "And it came to pass that when he had thus spoken, all the multitude, with one accord, did go forth with their sick and their afflicted, and their lame, and with their blind, and with their dumb, and with all them that were afflicted in any manner; and he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto him. "And they did all, both they who had been healed and they who were whole, bow down at his feet, and did worship him; and as many as could come for the multitude did kiss his feet, insomuch that they did bathe his feet with their tears. "And it came to pass that he commanded that their little children should be brought. "And so they brought their little children and sat them down upon the ground round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst; and the multitude gave way till they had all been brought unto him. "And it came to pass that when they had all been brought, and Jesus stood in the midst, he commanded the multitude that they should kneel down upon the ground. - "And it came to pass that when they had knelt upon the ground, Jesus groaned within himself, and saith: Father, I am troubled because of the wickedness of the people of the house of Israel. "And when he had said these words, he himself also knelt upon the earth; and behold he prayed unto the Father, and the things which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear record who heard him. "And after this manner do they bear record: The eye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father; "And no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father. "And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of praying unto the Father, he arose; but so great was the joy of the multitude that they were overcome. "And it came to pass that Jesus spake unto them, and bade them arise. "And they arose from the earth, and he said unto them: Blessed are ye because of your faith. And now behold, my joy is full. "And when he had said these words, he wept, and the multitude bear record of it, and he took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them. "And when he had done this he wept again; 
 "And he spake unto the multitude, and saith unto them: Behold your little ones. "And as they looked to behold, they cast their eyes toward heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and they came down and encircled those little ones about, and they were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto them." (3 Nephi, 17.) Then he turned to the multitude of people and gave them a few instructions which are applicable to us today, and he said: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always, lest ye be tempted by the devil, and ye are led away captive by him. And as I have prayed among you even so shall ye pray in my church, among my people who do repent and are baptized in my name. Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you. "And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words unto his disciples, he turned again unto the multitude and said unto them: "Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always lest ye enter into temptation; for Satan desireth to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. "Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name; "And whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is right, believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall be given unto you. "Pray in your families unto the Father, always in my name, that your wives and your children may be blessed." (3 Nephi, 18:15-21.) May we apply this admonition given to the people of this continent years ago and carried over to us by our beloved prophet Joseph Smith, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen.