Moral Guidance of Youth (Conference Address) By Dean Milton Bennion
The chief business of each generation is the rearing and educating of the next, and the social purpose of the family is primarily the perpetuation of the race and the proper training and development of the new generation. It is often said that education is the chief business of the state. That is as old as Plato; it was set forth clearly in Plato's time, and has come to be realized in our own time and country. There has, in our own state, been a good deal of talk about the large amount of money spent for education. It has been found that usually somewhat more than 50% of the revenues of the state, from taxation, are spent for education. This, it seems to me, is as it should be, and there should be no complaint that it costs the state more to educate the children than it does to take care of criminals and pay for administration in other respects.
Education is itself a very complex thing. We speak often of physical education, intellectual education and of moral and spiritual education, each one of which, of course, can be analyzed into very many details. I call attention to the fact that physical education, physical strength and health are of no value in themselves. It depends on what use we make of them. It is possible for a person to have very great strength, and health in perfection, but to make no better use of these qualities than to engage in prize-fighting, which is forbidden by law in most of the states of the union. Even intellectual education of itself is without value, and again it depends on what use we make of it. A person may have very keen intelligence, be possessed of vast stores of knowledge, and yet use this knowledge and intelligence to defraud his fellow men—he may be one of the greatest rogues in the country. Dr. John R. Park said that if he found a man was immoral, he would refuse to educate him, because it would give him more power for evil.
While we may say that education is the chief business of civilized men, whether we consider them as a community, as a state, as a church,
MORAL GUIDANCE OF YOUTH 9
or as a family, we may say that whatever the field of education, moral and religious guidance is the chief problem of education, and whether or not other phases of education have value, depends on whether or not we succeed in this moral and spiritual development. With proper habits and attitudes and ideals developed in the youth, health and physical strength, knowledge and intellectual power, then become things of great value because they give greater power and efficiency to the person who is possessed of right ideals and attitudes and habits, and who can therefore be of increased service to his fellowman.
In this process of education there are a good many agencies that are jointly responsible. Even the question of moral education is not the business of one agency alone. I have known prominent educators who have objected to the idea that we should divide this responsibility, and say that the family must have a certain responsibility, and the school, and the church, and so on. They have wanted to lay the whole thing on one agency, so that it could not be shirked. It seems that a matter of such importance cannot be carried by one agency alone, and that each one should make its proper contribution. We should name among these agencies, first the family, then the school, the church, the state, and the community life in its industrial and social aspect. The Relief Society as a family service organization, and as an auxiliary of the Church, is concerned primarily with moral guidance as it relates to the family, the Church, and the general community life.
Moral guidance is founded upon moral training, and moral training begins in infancy. The family responsibility must therefore come first and must continue as most fundamental. The Relief Society, as I conceive it, is concerned with moral and spiritual needs of family life and of the community, no less than with their physical needs. We have been accustomed to think of the Relief Society as an organization that looks out primarily for people's physical needs, and it has served very worthily in that respect, and continues to do so. I do not wish to infer that that is to be neglected or under-rated in value, but it does seem to me that there is also another mission for the society and in some respects a more far-reaching and significant one, and that is the moral and spiritual welfare of family and community life.
Young parents need counsel on family problems, and especially on moral training of children and moral guidance in general. These may be summarized under two general headings, as the development of self-restraint as the primary and foundation principle in moral training, and then on the basis of this power of self-restraint the development of the power of self-direction.
A child or a man who wants what he wants when he wants it, and can always get it, becomes a tyrant wherever he may be found. He is a moral danger to himself and to the community,


not having learned the first lesson of self-restraint. This lesson should begin with the infant in arms. I often think that the infant in arms begins, then and there, to acquire the power to get whatever he wants at the particular moment when he wants it, by crying for it. The lesson of self-restraint should be learned in infancy in some measure, under a mother's wise care and regulation of infant life. The mother, with expert help if necessary, should determine the child's needs, and so train him that he will not form the habit of crying for things he should not have. Mother love should be tempered with knowledge and wisdom. This kind of moral training is essential as a basis for moral guidance in later life.
Child activity begins with play. Work in minor forms, such as various kinds of family service, may begin early and be gradually increased, but not to the point of causing mental or physical injury. Training in reasonable service is as essential in moral development as in other forms of educational activity. Our child labor laws are not meant to prevent children from doing any kind of work; they are to prevent children from being put into work that is monotonous and long continued and that tends to strain their physical and mental powers. They are to keep children out of factories and such employment. But we have in our own country and our own state other problems not regulated by law which are just as important. In modern city life it is a problem to find some sort of suitable employment for children. If they do nothing but play and go to school, there is likely to be a very important element of character neglected. It is especially important that they should have employment suited to their age and condition, and the fact that many of them do not and cannot find employment raises a serious problem in the community. Running wild on the streets with nothing to do is a calamity. There is no condition more favorable for developing bad habits, and acquiring attitudes that are bad, than to have youths running the streets because there is no suitable employment available for them.
It is also a fact that at this age, they need some variety of vocational experience. A young person cannot choose wisely a vocation without having some experience in the practice of some vocation. A boy will frequently think he wants to qualify for a certain line of work when he has no idea of what that means, and perhaps cannot have a very good idea until he has some vocational experience in, or closely related to that work, which may change his idea altogether. He must find out by trial or experiment what abilities and powers he has, and that means that he must get in and have opportunity to use them.
Closely allied with this is the problem of choosing a vocation. A very important part of the moral guidance of youth is to furnish him with a great deal of information about vocations
MORAL GUIDANCE OF YOUTH 11
and wise counsel with respect to the choice of a vocation. There should be proper stimulation and guidance in the preparation for a vocation. Our modern industrial business and professional world has become very complex and as our civilization becomes complex, vocations multiply. There is more and more specialization required and if the people are going to succeed well in life and do their part of the world's work, each person must choose wisely a vocation and qualify for it, and then he must find a place where he can fit in, for the particular vocation for which qualification has been made. It is one of the most important problems of youth of the present time. I meet young people who have gotten far enough along to be in college who are uncertain as to what vocation to follow and they cannot figure it out, many of them. It is a serious problem.
A young person has to know something of his own abilities and powers. He should choose a vocation in which he has enough ability to excel and it must be a kind really in demand by society, and that renders real service to the community. If he happens to choose a vocation in which he cannot succeed, it means failure, and failure means discouragement in starting all over again. There are grown men in this community, well on in years, whose lives have been marred seriously and whose usefulness has been diminished by the fact that they did not get into the right vocation in the first place. Then again, a young person may be qualified in a vocation and may not be able to succeed in it, because so many others in the community have qualified in the same vocation, and so he cannot get sufficient employment. I mention this to show some of the complexities of the problem, and if those who are older cannot lend some aid to help young people in solving these difficulties, I do not know what can be done about it. The school may furnish vocational information, but this matter of guidance is something that is a very personal matter. In the schools we have to handle the students in large groups, and we have little opportunity for personal counsel and close acquaintanceship such as we have in the home, where the young people should be intimate with their parents, and those who deal with the family life, as the Relief Society does through the ward meetings and lessons and the system of teachers and visitation, and to some extent through professional service in the home. It would seem to me that there is great opportunity for the Relief Society.
Vocational guidance applies not only to boys but also to girls. It seems to me that there is the same necessity to guide girls. Every girl, in my opinion, should choose and qualify for a vocation in which she can be independent financially, and in which she can be of greater service to society. I say usually that a girl should qualify for two vocations, so that she may be prepared for any emergency, for certainly it is true that there is a considerable percentage of the women of the community who do not marry. I think statistics


which have been given out not long since are to the effect that about 70% of women in this country marry, leaving 30% unmarried; and, of course, nobody knows who is to be in the 70% and who is in the 30%. But apart from that, suppose we know that a young woman is going to marry at the age of 25 or younger, I still think there is necessity for that young woman to choose a vocation and qualify for it. Nobody knows when a woman who is married may be thrown upon her own resources, as many women are, and if a woman is qualified in a vocation in which she can render expert service, she has something to fall back upon and can make her way in the world and support children, if she has them, to the extent that her strength and facilities make it possible.
Closely allied is the question of developing the right attitude toward property and service. Many young people look about to see how they can earn the most money in the easiest way. This is a very unethical attitude. It is immoral for a person to take that attitude toward a vocation. The first consideration in choosing a vocation is, "How can I render the greatest service?" Service should come first and that attitude should be fixed well in the minds of young people. Any vocation that is not a real service to society should be entirely eliminated. Some people we have in our community now, who are following a vocation forbidden by law, and when these people are convicted of following that vocation, they are sent to jail! We should consider the various forms of service that society really needs to keep up the standards of civilization and to carry on the work of the world. Such forms of service are legitimate vocations, and the young person who looks at it from that angle will consider as a second question the problem of remuneration. People ordinarily have to make a living by their vocations, although there are a few fortunate individuals who follow vocations without any compensation because they have other means of living.
Our attitude toward property, like our attitude to physical health and strength, should also be that property is a means to an end and should never be pursued as an end in itself. A very large part of trouble in the world is due to love of money; it is "the root of all evil" as Paul said, and money should not be set up as a goal in itself. Property is a means to an end, and those with considerable property should regard themselves as stewards of this property and see that it is used in a beneficial way. All property, whether publicly or privately owned, should be used for the good of the community.
In addition to developing this purpose of vocational aim and vocational service, there are other forms of service, and it is an important thing in the moral guidance of youth to develop also other life purposes—purposes in which an individual may give gratuitous service in addition to following a vocation. We have in the Church a very great many examples of that. We see many
MORAL GUIDANCE OF YOUTH 13
young men and women who serve the Church in the missionary field with no thought of compensation whatever. One who is sincere and has such a purpose, has something that is a powerful factor in molding his character. We do not develop character by sitting down and telling the young person not to do this and not to do that. That youthful energy will break out at some other spot. The young have an outlet for energy, an outlet that will lead them to strive for worthy ends, to realize high ideals. Then the overflow generally will take care of itself. There are occasions, of course, where they may have to be admonished against doing this, or that, or the other, but there should always be provided a legitimate outlet for energy and they should be stimulated to set up high and worthy purposes to realize. Moral guidance should be largely positive rather than negative. Self-restraint is a factor, but even that is developed largely through the positive pursuit of high purposes; and in the positive pursuit of high purposes, there is developed power of self-direction in agreement with these high purposes and moral and spiritual ideals.
Young people should be encouraged; they should realize their own powers and how valuable those powers are, and also how valuable their time is. I ask my students to budget their time, to make out a budget of their time for the whole quarter, and to determine what they are going to do with every hour in the day and with every day in the week. Then, when they find that they can improve their budget, they modify and improve it, and in an emergency they can modify it. Time is more valuable than money; see that you have a systematic way of taking care of it.
There is a question of the cooperation and coordination of agencies about which I should say a word: cooperation and coordination of home, school, church, and community life, always with the idea of strengthening home life. I think sometimes that with the many organizations we have in the Church, and that with these organizations sometimes working rather independently of one another and competing with one another for the time and attention of young people, and each anxious to furnish recreation for its members, that the young people are drawn away from home, and home becomes a most insignificant place. I fear young people are overdone with recreation and amusement. A few days ago I was at a convention, and one of the members of the Council of Twelve remarked, "I cannot see the idea of dragging people out and making them take recreation." That is the point we reach sometimes—we have so much of it. The Church itself is the coordinating agency in which every organization should have a part, and the matter should not be overdone. We should strengthen the home by home entertainment, by cultivating simple and wholesome tastes, such as reading, music, companionship and worthwhile conversation. We need more of all of these in the home,


for one of the great safeguards of moral life is the cultivation of simple, intellectual tastes that minister to the development of intellectual and moral life. Such activities are much more preferable than having young people chasing all over the country, running automobiles costing more money than young people should spend, or having them tempted to dishonesty to secure such pleasures. Many a man has gone to the penitentiary for embezzlement because he attempted to gratify tastes too expensive for his financial situation and tried to keep up with so-called higher standards of society life. Young people should learn to entertain themselves and to enjoy life through their own activity much more than they do. It would be not only a matter of wholesome life to them here and now, but would mean much for them later in life. In old age, for instance, a person who has cultivated these tastes may be very happy and able to entertain himself. The same thing is true in invalidism. The other day I was told of a woman who had been active all her life with society affairs and had never cultivated such tastes, and when she became an invalid for two years before her death, she did not know what to do with herself. She had no resources within herself, and was miserable all the time.
There has been very rapid progress recently in our material civilization and in the social and recreational activities in which people engage, old and young, On the other hand, the moral and spiritual progress has been slow. I make an appeal to reverse the process. I do not mean by that that we shall undervalue material comforts and gains, but that we shall lay more stress upon the moral and spiritual development of people.
Shall the following conditions be turned to good or evil account? Increase in luxury: (Our luxuries are used to a large extent to our detriment. The possession of wealth may be turned to good account if expended on things to secure simple and inexpensive taste, and not misspent on things injurious to us. If we can provide our homes with better books, and with musical instruments, we are contributing to moral development and moral welfare. If we spend our means on candy and gum and worse things, as many people are acquiring the habit of doing, then they become a detriment.)
Shortening of the working hours: (It has been observed that the shortening of the working hours tends to contribute to delinquency, because the leisure hours are wrongly spent.)
Lengthening of the "period of infancy:" (When people are engaged in education rather than in work; but if that is properly correlated with learning to work, we have an asset instead of a detriment.)
Increase in amusements.
One of the leading activity organizations in this country, devoted solely to the problem of moral education, "The Pathfinders of America," with headquarters in Detroit, have this for their motto: "Make Virtue More Attractive Than Vice." That is our problem in dealing with young people. May God help us to do so.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine 

VOL. XV JANUARY, 1928 No. 1
EDITORIAL