Ida Peterson Beal NEWLY APPOINTED MEMBER OF GENERAL BOARD More than I can tell you this afternoon, I appreciate being here, not so much in addressing you, but in partaking of the wonderful spirit that has been so manifest in our meetings today. I am so grateful to my heavenly Father for all the blessings that he has showered upon me, and upon mine, and I pray that I may always walk in humility and in obedience before him, that I may be always willing to give my time and my talents to his service. Today we listened to a most wonderful address by a sister who took part in the pioneering of the Relief Society in the early days. As she gave us this splendid address, I thought of the marvelous things that those women had done and what a firm and splendid and broad foundation they had made for us to build upon so that we could erect upon this foundation a beautiful edifice and embellish it with our moral, our physical, our spiritual and our intellectual accomplishments. I hope we are going to make the Relief Society what it was intended to be. When I think of what our parents sacrificed to come here for the gospel's sake, the thought has often gone through my mind, are we, as their children, making their dreams, their sacrifices come true? Are we living as they desired that we should live? I hope we are, and that we shall accomplish all they hoped we would. Their idea was not that we should erect to their honor monuments of stone and wood, but monuments of noble manhood and glorious and virtuous womanhood. We cannot let their dreams be unfulfilled. Let us take from the simple things at hand and build our happiness. Within us are treasures which, if rightly cultivated, will lead to great peace, joy and satisfaction. We cannot build our lives or reach our goal with other's talents. We must use the talents with which God has blessed us?our time, our gifts and our talents. Let us lay aside discontent with the things that we have. Let us take hold of the things that we have and build a structure that will reach up and up and onward, and through this we shall be richly blessed and greatly gratified. I feel weak in assuming this position, but when the call came CONFERENCE ADDRESSES _ 25 to me, I felt I had no reason to say other than, "I shall do the best I can." There is always a great joy in being willing to be led. "Do not spurn to be a lesser light because you are not a star, But brighten some bit of darkness by shining just where you are." If we will all realize that we have work to do and that we should do it to the very best of our ability, we shall not fail, and the special work to which we have been assigned will not be a failure. If we fail in what has been given us to do, then just that little part has gone awry. I pray our heavenly Father to strengthen us in all we attempt to do that is right and proper, and that we may glorify his name by living lives worthy of emulation; and I pray for his continued blessings upon us all. Louise Y. Robison I would like to preface my talk this afternoon with a little verse from the Doctrine and Covenants, 82nd section, verse 14. "For Zion must increase in beauty, and in holiness; her borders must be enlarged; her stakes must be strengthened, yea, verily I say unto you, Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments." I testify to you this afternoon that the Relief Society has helped Zion put on her beautiful garments during this Summer. While the General Board always knows that the women in the stakes are faithful in doing anything that is asked of them, they were entirely unprepared for the excellent results that have been realized from our teachers' topics on Civic Pride. In every stake we have visited, we have had glowing reports of what the women have accomplished, of the beauty that has been brought to the communities through the efforts of you dear Relief Society women. The reports are so wonderful; I wish we had room in the Magazine for them and for the beautiful flower displays. We have had flower shows in many of the stakes that have been an inspiration and a surprise to all the members of the stake. I should like to read a few of the activities of the civic pride work that has been accomplished. We have reports of how many trees have been planted, of how boys have cleared up weeds from door yards, and of the flowers planted there. Of wards which are furnishing flowers for every sacrament meeting. In one of the wards (and this is typical of others,) the ward officers cooperated with the city officials, and the mayor said, "All of the people in my city belong to you women; have your clean-up campaign, and our trucks and tractors and cars are at your disposal." And in one little town where there were two wards, 316 men worked on the street all day long, and the two ward Relief Societies furnished them dinner. The officers of the Chamber 
 of Commerce were so pleased about this that they gave complimentary tickets to the picture show to all of the workers. In the flower show in one stake, they found they did not quite understand the grouping of the flowers which they brought in tubs and jars, but in the awarding of the prizes, the judges taught them better how to group the flowers and that it was not the quantity as much as the quality of the display, that counted. This stake president said, "This year has just taught us how we can have beauty in the next flower show. Next year I shall ask the judges to visit all the booths and make constructive criticism and tell why some displays are not the best." In one stake every teacher in one of the wards was responsible for planting a tree upon the meeting house grounds. Can you think how that is beautifying the stakes of Zion? I think some of these statistics are almost unbelievable, but in three stakes 20,486 loads of manure were carried away, and think of how many flies that helped to prevent. In one stake the fight against the fly was through-preventive measures almost entirely. They cooperated with a large industry there, and through the efforts of the Relief Society, this industry donated a large quantity of lime. City or county trucks were obtained to carry this lime to different parts of the stake, where signs were put up, inviting people to help themselves, and through that preventive measure many breeding places were eliminated. Some stakes have reported the number of flies killed. Some of you who live in localities where you haven't many flies will hardly believe it, but some of the rest of you will believe it when I tell you that one stake gave prizes for flies captured, and that 685 quarts of flies were brought to the Relief Society. One ward took the prize, supplying more than 400 quarts. Early in the year when there were not so many flies, the stake bought them at the rate of 20c a quart; later, at 15c, and later still at lc a quart. This seems like a very ordinary thing to talk about, but I believe that if the mothers all knew and realized what diseases and destruction may be carried by flies they would work wholeheartedly for their entire destruction. One stake reported that 75% of the women planted flowers this year; 91% of the people owned their own vegetable gardens; 56% of the people of the whole stake planted trees and shrubs, and this refers not alone to the Latter-day Saints, but other groups which joined them. In one of the wards the mayor, not a member of the Church, was invited to the flower show, and he asked what prizes were to be given, and when told, he said, "I should like to supply the money for these prizes, and every year in the future the Relief Society can depend upon me to pay for any prizes offered for raising flowers in this community." In this stake 86 houses were painted, and 91 loads of gravel were hauled CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 27 for paths around the houses, and 175 days were spent on cleaning the streets. In one stake work was done on the cemetery. There was no water near it, so the Relief Society women went to the priesthood meeting and offered to buy the pipe to carry water to the cemetery, if the men would dig the trench; and it was done. There were two good slogans in the reports from the stakes. One was, "I will keep noxious weeds from seeding," and the other was, "There is beauty all around when it's clean at home." Those of you who have not had the satisfying experience of accomplishing these things in your stake during the year, we hope will have the opportunity another year. You splendid stake presidents and workers who have done such marvelous work, who have made the desert blossom as the rose, we pray God's blessings upon you, that you will take joy in your labors, that you will turn to the Doctrine and Covenants and read that section, for it is from our Father in heaven. "For Zion must increase in beauty, and in holiness; her borders must be enlarged; her stakes must be strengthened, yea, verily I say unto you, Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments." (D. And C. 82:14.)