[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | November | Issue: 4 | Title: PIONEER LITERATURE AND WRITERS. | Author: Unknown]

PIONEER LITERATURE AND WRITERS.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.
				I.
	In the different epochs of the world’s his-
tory great spirits have been born to carry
out the wondrous designs of the Creator.
	Few comparatively are the names passed
down through the generations that have
achieved great deeds in the world’s drama,
so turning back the page we read of Moses
and the prophets, but the names of those
who helped them in their great works are
long since forgotten. Then we come to the
awakening and the world is illumined by
the birth of Christ, marvelous was the work
of his disciples, men and women that their
names have been handed down through the
centuries to be revered by the children of
men as Saints; and yet it is the Saints, those
whose lives are nothing in the balance
against the work of God who have left their
“foot prints on the sands of time” and
whose praises are sung throughout the ages.
	Since the hour of the transfiguration when
Christ died that man might live, nations
have had their rise and fall and men and
women have played great parts upon the
stage of life.
	The brightest constellation of stars since
that time in all the world’s great history ap-
peared with the dawn of the 19th century.
	The civilized world was shocked and dev-
astated with Napoleon’s great army. Liter-
ature, science, art, religion, all the finer feel-
ings were dormant, commerce and invention
were stagnated, for the wealth, force and
sinew of nations was being applied towards
checking the onward march of that master
General but there was a quickening in the
world’s pulse when Napoleon met his Water-
loo. Out of the darkness came great light.
In the literary world alone were born many
most glorious spirits, Hugo, Eliot, Dickens,
Bancroft. But the brightest star in all this
wondrous constellation, the brightest since
the sorrowful Nazarene, was the spirit of
JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET.
	With him came others to help in his won-
drous work, chosen spirits sent by the Mas-
ter to perform the Master’s work and among
those master spirits are those of whom the
Latter-day Saints may be justly proud today
for their fine literary genius and attainments.
	It has been remarked that Utah has made
much greater advance in music and in art
than she has in literature, that from a world-
ly standpoint in fact she had made no pro-
gress at all, her writers had made no fame
outside her boundaries, while her musicians
and painters were widely known.
	If this be true, as perhaps it is in part, it
is due to the fact that the literature of Utah
is largely of a religious nature and a prejudic-
ed world is reluctant to give merit even where
merit is due. Sublime themes in painting
and music are inspiring and pleasing to the
eye and ear without particularly appealing
to one’s reasoning powers, while the same
subjects dealt with in a literary way call
forth the reasoning and argumentative pow-
ers of the mind and are less apt to receive
favor. A picture is accepted by the critics
not for the sermon that it preaches or the

[Column 2]
story that it tells but for its beauty in shad-
ing and coloring, its perfect perspective, its
symmetry and lines. A musical composition
not so much for its theme but such arrange-
ment of sound as to produce the most tell-
ing and harmonious effects; but a poem or
a story or writings of any kind must have
besides the genius of inspiration and the
learned acquirement of composition the art
to appeal to the sympathy and reason of the
human mind, before it ranks among the
classics. That Utah has now and has al-
ways had such works I do maintain whether
the world’s critics received them as such or
not. The writings of the Utah authors should
justly claim a first place in the ranks for
erudition, composition, inspiration and sen-
timent.
	True in the field of literature known as
Fiction Utah can make little claim to excel-
lence and yet in all the world’s history there
can scarcely be found a people, whose tradi-
tions, experiences and sentiment so abound
in those attributes and acquirements which
are necessary for the making of a successful
novel. A people taught, however, almost
from the beginning to refrain from reading
that class of literature are not very likely to
study the art of composing it and what few
attempts have been made have been confined
largely to the short story telling for maga-
zines and newspapers by some of our later
writers with probably the exception of the
dramas and stories of Edward W. Tullidge
and that rather striking story of Corianton
from the Book of Mormon by Brigham H.
Roberts and some religious novels by Nephi
Anderson.
	The class of literature embracing treatises,
essays, letters, history, journalism, and
poetry, has always existed with the people
of Utah and is of the highest and best order.
	In the building of an empire where all the
strength and ability of every man, woman
and child, had to be spent towards the mak-
ing of homes, little time could be given to-
wards the cultivation of the talents in the
higher refinements, and yet from the founda-
tion of the Church the Latter-day Saints
have been a studious reading people and the
record of the Church itself is a literary dra-
ma.
	“Seek ye out of the best books words of
wisdom, seek learning even by study and by
faith” is a commandment given through the
Prophet Joseph Smith to his people, and so
seeking and learning by study and by faith
out of the best books the people of this
commonwealth have ever had before them
the highest ideals of literary work.
	Carlyle says—“The writer of a book, is not
he a preacher, preaching not to this parish
or that, on this day or that but to all men,
in all times and places. * * * * Men
of letters are a perpetual priesthood from
age to age teaching all men that a God is
still present in their life. * * * * The
true literary man is the light of the world,
the world’s priest; guiding it like a sacred
pillar of fire in its dark pilgrimage through
the waste of time.” From the time when
the boy prophet brought forth from the Hill
Cumorah and gave to the world, that great-
est and most powerful of books—the Book


[Column 1]
of Mormon,—the Latter-day Saint people
have been building a literature better in ori-
ginality and inspiration of thought, than any
other people. What had we, when sixty-one
years ago, our fathers and mothers entered
this valley, in a literary way? Principally per-
sonal diaries and a Hymn Book. Oh, what
a Hymn Book! It contains some of the
grandest themes, words most prophetic, doc-
trines most profound, mingled with a senti-
ment so sweet, so pure, so full of faith and
hope all in perfect rhyme and rhythm as can
not be found between the covers of any other
song book in the world.
	It has always been the custom of the Latter-
day Saints as soon as they became settled
in a town capacity to establish a newspaper
and in less than three years after reaching
these valleys, the Deseret News was estab-
lished, a weekly periodical with Willard
Richards as editor. Through its columns
those who had literary talents were invited
to express themselves; it has always been the
organ of the Church and soon became a
daily paper. It had for editors, always, men
of literary ability and renown among the
people and has ever held a high place in the
ranks of journalism as an organ of good, up-
right principles.
	Of books the pioneers possessed but few
having to use the space in their conveyances
for the necessaries of life; what few these
were, however, were of the choicest, but
what matter, so long as among the people
if there were not books there were men and
women who were the makers of books.
	Early in the fifties a literary society called
the Polysophical Society was organized by
Lorenzo Snow. The meetings were held
twice a week and were much enjoyed. The
object of the association was the cultivation
of the mind and manners in a social and
literary way. Is it not remarkable that in
a western desert, among a poor and driven
people should originate and thrive a literary
association of which the favored east, even
Boston herself, with her culture and refine-
ment might be proud to day? Also so far as
present research can show it was the first
literary club in the United States. Among
the members may be mentioned the founder
—Lorenzo Snow and his gifted sister Eliza
R. Snow, Brigham Young, the poets Henry
W. Naisbitt, W. G. Mills, John Lyon, W. W.
Phelps, Hannah T. King and Hannah Cor-
naby.
	Probably the pioneer writer deserving first
mention is the author of that wonderful mis-
sionary work—“The Voice of Warning”—
Parley P. Pratt. A young literary man in
speaking of Parley P. Pratt says—“In prose
we have only had his equal in his brother
Orson. These two men, have written, I be-
lieve, all the philosophy on which Mormon
literature is founded.” Parley P. Pratt lived
scarce fifty years but in that short period of
time he performed a work so magnificent as
a missionary, a legislator, a journalist, a
writer, and a man of God as to leave his
name among the immortals. “The Voice of
Warning” was first published in 1838, has
passed through numerous editions, been
translated in almost every modern language
and is still doing its great work among the
people and the nations though its author has
long since passed away.
	The Key to Theology, another of our
standard church works, has been a great help
to the missionary, a guide to the teacher and
student of religious literature and an inspi-
ration to the expounder of our faith. In
1840, Parley P. Pratt brought out the first
number of the first volume of that glorious

[Column 2]
little periodical The Millennial Star, in the
city of Manchester, England, on the cover of
which appeared the beautiful hymn “The
morning breaks, the shadows flee,” written
by him expressly for that purpose and oc-
casion and which has ever since been the
first hymn in the Latter-day Saints Hymn
Book. Besides the numerous newspaper ar-
ticles and letters written by him, Parley P.
Pratt wrote forty-six of the choicest hymns
sung by the Latter-day Saints. On his fif-
tieth birthday while on a mission in the east
and just a month before his death, he wrote
a poem called “My Fiftieth Year” which in
a most concise and musical way tells some-
thing of his life and work. One verse reads
like this:

I have wandered far, I have wandered wide,
From Maine to the wild Missouri’s tide;
And over the Atlantic’s sea girt isles
Full many a weary thousand miles.
I have trampled the desert’s burning sands
And the snow-clad mountains of unknown lands.
Mid the crystal waters of Deseret
I have pulled the oar and cast the net;
I have climbed the steeps with the golden ore,
And roamed o’er the lone Pacific shore;
I have ploughed its bosom many a day
To visit the nations far away;
I have stood on Chili’s distant shore,
Where the Polar star is seen no more;
I have gazed on the Andes heights of snow
And roamed mid the flowery plains below.
I have toiled with the great in freedom’s cause,
And assisted to give a state its laws.
I have lain in a dungeon bound in chains
And been honored in courts where justice reigns
In a thousand joys and a thousand fears
I have struggled on through my fifty years.

	This poem, probably the last he ever
wrote, was like the summing up of his life’s
work and in it he expresses a weariness of
travel and a desire to rest in his home with
his dear ones. For him the span of life was
short but his work will extend forever.
	Orson Pratt like his brother was one of the
first apostles of the Church. Both were col-
lege men and both came from old Puritan
stock. They accepted the gospel in its ful-
ness and were ardent and faithful laborers
in the Church. The literary work of Orson
Pratt is more of a scientific nature and his
sermons alone would make a volume of pro-
found thought. In 1852, Orson Pratt pub-
lished a periodical in the city of Washing-
ton called “The Seer,” the two volumes of
which contain articles on the priesthood
and other doctrinal subjects. Perhaps the
most widely read of his works is The Key to
the Universe a book which learned scientists
have marveled could be produced in his
time, for it reveals things which have in
later years by the use of new improved sci-
entific instruments been discovered by the
most learned men. In 1848 he edited the
Millennial Star and was always writing and
studying and gaining knowledge for the
benefit of his people. A collection of tracts
for missionary work called Orson Pratt’s
Works is a notable volume among our
Church works. A rather unique work of
Orson Pratt’s was the transcribing and pub-
lishing of the Book of Mormon in Phonetic
characters, called the Deseret Alphabet.
Brother Orson Pratt was a man of humble
demeanor and rather inclined to diffidence
in social affairs, childlike simplicity of man-
ner but a most wonderful mind and a voice
so resonant and rich that thousands still re-
member his powerful and logical sermons
delivered in the great Tabernacle. His writ-
ings appeal more to the student than the or-
dinary reader. Orson Pratt with Erastus
Snow were the first of the pioneers to enter
this valley, riding down on the 23rd of July,
and looking over the land for the purpose of

[Column 3]
selecting a good camping place for the peo-
ple. A pioneer, a traveler, a preacher, a
scientist, a man of letters and one of the
kindest and noblest of men, such was Orson
Pratt.
	Among the choice literature of the Church
is a little volume entitled Spencer’s Letters.
It is a collection of letters explaining the
faith and doctrines of the Latter-day Saints
written by Orson Spencer to a Mr. Wil-
liam Crowel, a minister in the Baptist
church.
	Orson Spencer was a learned man, a col-
lege graduate and was himself educated for
the ministry, also the law, but having accept-
ed the gospel he gave up the prospects of the
brilliant career that seemed to await him
and laid his destiny with the Saints of God.
He died in the service of the Church while
on a mission to the States. Had he been
permitted to live longer doubtless our liter-
ature would have been much enriched from
his facile pen. He was the first chancellor
of the University of Utah and active in all
educational work among the people.
	John Taylor—apostle, poet, prophet—
throughout his long life in the Church con-
tributed largely to church literature. His let-
ters, sermons, epistles, and poems speak of
his devotion to principle, his fearlessness,
his loyalty to his people, his religion, and
his friends. The Hymn Book contains three
of his hymns, the most notable of which is
that inspiring poem The Seer, which always
calls forth the heart’s great love for Joseph
from the people in response to the telling of
his own love for him. John Taylor wrote a
very beautiful response to the poem by Par-
ley P. Pratt before quoted, on Friendship and
many other verses on the same subject to
loved friends, He edited and founded the
little periodical called the Mormon in New
York city, also founded and published in
Paris, France, a periodical called Zion’s Pa-
nier, Zion’s Banner, and made the first trans-
lation into the French and the German lang-
uages of the Book of Mormon.
	Speaking of John Taylor’s book entitled
The Government of God, Hubert H. Ban-
croft, the historian, says: “As a dissertation
on an abstract and general subject it prob-
ably has not its equal in point of ability
within the range of Mormon Literature.”
John Taylor also edited the “Nauvoo Neigh-
bor” afterwards called The Times and Sea-
sons in Nauvoo, and ever held a high place
among the literati of the Latter-day Saints.
	Of the songs written in our Hymn Book
second only to Parley P. Pratt in number,
and to no one in excellence are those
from the pen of W. W. Phelps. The most
beautiful, the most inspiring songs of
Zion are from the pen of that gifted man.
Thirty-five in number, “Redeemer of Israel”,
“Awake oh ye people,” “Come all ye sons
of Zion,” “The spirit of God like a fire is
burning,” “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers,” “Glorious things are sung of Zion”;
“Let us pray, gladly pray,” and “Praise to
the man who communed with Jehovah” and
many others fill our hearts and souls with
all the love and fervor and fire that a true poet
can call forth. Some of them are perfect epics
and he surely possessed the “divine fire.”
William G. Mills contributed two of our very
best hymns, “Arise, oh glorious Zion” and
“We’ll sing the songs of Zion.” John Lyon
wrote three well known hymns, John Jaques
five, M. A. Morton five, William Clayton two,
Edward W. Sloan five, and Charles W. Pen-
rose eight. Edward W. Sloan was also the
founder and first editor of The Salt Lake
Herald and assisted in the founding of that


[Column 1]
dear little paper—The Woman’s Exponent
—the first woman’s periodical west of the
Mississippi River.
	Its present editor Emmeline B. Wells also
claims a place among the pioneer writers of
Utah having written some fragments in the
early days for certain occasions. Her first
contribution, when quite a girl, written in
1844 and published in the Millennial Star
called “Friendship” is very touching and in
the early fifties she wrote a poem called An
Ode to Deseret in which she very beautifully
describes the wind on the desert.
	The most prominent woman in early Mor-
mon literature, however, is Eliza Roxey Snow.
She was born in Massachusetts in 1804, and
had a good literary and domestic education.
Descended from good old revolutionary an-
cestors she possessed in her character those
strong and abiding principles which mark
the saint. Even as Joan of Arc, that sweet
maid of Orleans, felt her divine calling and
accomplished her work even to her martyr-
dom and never quailed even when placed
over the burning fagots but died a true Saint,
so Eliza R. Snow from the moment of her
baptism into the new and everlasting faith
was born anew and marched through perse-
cution, poverty, sickness and heart rending
scenes to her destiny. No words so truly and
fully tell her faith in this great work as she
herself tells in the following words:

My heart is fixed I know in whom I trust
The proclamation sounded in my ear
it reached my heart—I listened to the sound
Counted the cost and laid my earthly all
Upon the altar, and with purpose fixed
Unalterably, while the spirit of Elijah’s God with-
	in my bosom reigns
Embraced the Everlasting Covenant,
And am determined now to be a Saint
And numbered with the tried and faithful ones
Whose race is measured with their life, whose joy
Is everlasting and whose happiness
Is God’s approval, and to whom ’tis more
Than meat and drink to do his righteousness.

	Before joining the Latter-day Saints Eliza
R. Snow gained some literary fame through
writing a prize story for a popular magazine.
	She was the first secretary of the Woman’s
Relief Society and prepared and preserved
the records of that organization containing
the instructions of the Prophet Joseph
Smith to the Women of Zion. She wrote
many newspaper articles and essays, also
the biography of her brother, Lorenzo Snow,
and she also wrote and published that very
interesting book of travel called The Pales-
tine Tourists. She wrote two volumes of
poetry mostly of the heroic style but the one
beautiful poem which alone would immor-
talize her name among her people is the
great doctrinal hymn called “Oh my Father”
so loved by all the Latter-day Saints.
	Perhaps the saddest, sweetest poetess we
can claim is Miss Sarah E. Carmichael. She
came to Utah when a little girl with her par-
ents from New York where she was born and
even as a school girl wrote beautiful verses,
in fact in her early life she wrote some of the
best, and most beautiful of her poems and
always proved the genius of a true poet. She
perhaps alone is the one Utah writer the
world has so far recognized.
	A little volume of her beautiful thoughts
was, published by some of her friends for
private distribution and a copy of the same
is now very rarely seen and held very pre-
cious by those who are fortunate enough to
own one. She was always a dreamer and her
last days were clouded, as Byron says “As
by a sickness of a soul.” While her poem
The Stolen Sunbeam was the one selected
by William Cullen Bryant for his collection

[Column 2]
of American poetry, some writers deem the
following poem called Dead Roses, to have
been the most beautiful. It is not in the
little volume but has been culled from some
paper in which it was printed at the time of
her death.

