[Vol33 | March 1946 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Remember Redd]
That's  all  I  can  remember.  I 
just  thought  it  sort  of  fitted  me.  I've 
always  been  the  shrub  type— never 
had  any  big  positions  in  tiie  Church 
like  Emmaretta  and  some  of  the 
others.  She's  been  put  in  the  Relief 
Society  stake  presidency  now,  you 
know.  I  guess  being  a  visiting 
teacher  is  about  as  high  as  I'll  ever 
get." 
"Well,  you're  a  pine  around  this 
house,"  said  Henry  gallantly,  as  he 
pushed  back  his  chair,  "and  don't 
let  any  of  those  female  women  keep 
you  talking  until  you're  late  for  din- 
ner. 
Page  192 
"Don't  you  ever  think  of  anything 
but  eating?"  sighed  Aline,  taking  off 
her  kitchen  apron  and  hanging  it  in 
the  broom  closet. 
"Sure.  Right  now  I'm  wondering 
if  I  have  time  for  a  ten  minute  snooze 
before  I  have  to  get  back  to  work." 
"No.  But  take  it  anyway  or  you'll 
be  worrying  about  it  all  afternoon. 
Shall  I  wear  my  navy  dot  this  after- 
noon or  the  rose  print?  Isn't  it  nice 
to  have  two  dresses  so  that  you  can 
choose  between  them?" 
"Wear  the  rose,  of  course," 
answered  Henry,  breaking  his  yawn 
in  the  middle.  "If  you're  going  to  be 
a  shrub  you  might  as  well  be  a  rose 
shrub.  And  don't  forget  to  come 
home.  When  you  and  that  Janet 
Meeks  get  together—" 
"Janet  can't  go  today,"  said  Aline, 
bustling  off  to  the  bedroom.  "I 
have  to  go  alone." 
"Well,  don't  forget  to  come  home 
anyway.  I  get  mighty  lonesome 
while  you're  making  up  formulas  for 
the  Wilkins  baby  and  reading  to  old 
Sister  Ballard." 
"Why,  Henry,"  chuckled  Aline. 
"You  know  that  I  don't  do  that  very 
often." 
"No,  just  once  a  month,"  he 
answered  drowsily. 
OALF  an  hour  later  Aline,  fresh  as 
a  June  morning  in  her  rose  print 
and  white  linen  hat,  was  hurrying 
down  the  street.  "I  do  hope  that 
Retta  Hubbard  has  good  news  of 
her  grandchild  by  now,"  she  mused, 
"and  that  Ellen  Crabtree  has  de- 
cided to  try  and  get  along  with  her

THE  BEST  LITTLE  SHRUB  193 
mother-in-law.  Dear  me,  it's  always  this  morning  to  see  me.  He's  in  an 
something  and  it's  so  hard  to  decide  awful  jam.  Aunt  Marty's  just  had  an 
just  how  much  I  can  do  without  operation  and  he  had  to  have  three 
going  too  far."  hundred  dollars  for  the  hospital,   I 
As  she  turned  onto  a  neat  walk,  told  him  how  it  was  with  us  but— "^ 
lined   with  brilliant  petunias,  she  "Oh,  Rod!"  she  cried.  'Tou  didn't 
added,  '1  wish  that  everyone  was  as  give  it  to  him?    Not  again!" 
nicely  settled  as  Daphne  Rhoades  "But  Daphne,"  he  pleaded,  his 
here.    A  pretty  new  home,  a  fine  eyes  looking  tragically  old  in  his 
young  husband  and  a  darling  baby,  young  face,  "what  else  could  I  do? 
I'll  just  peek  in  here  for  a  minute  He  had  to  have  some  money  and 
and  then  hurry  on."  there  wasn't  another  soul  he  could 
*     *     *  turn  to." 
Daphne  Rhoades  sat  staring  across  "He'd  have  had   to  turn  some- 
the  luncheon  table  with  unseeing  where  else  if  you  hadn't  given  it  to 
eyes.    The  sound  of  a  back  door  as  him,"  she  answered  stonily.  "Every- 
Rod  had   slammed  it  shut  barely  one  else  comes  first  with  you  and  it's 
registered  on  her  consciousness.    A  your  own  family  last.  You  know  how 
door  crashing  was  nothing  when  her  badly  I  want  this  house.  And  we've 
whole  world  had  just  gone  to  smash,  worked  so  hard  to  make  that  down 
This  was  most  certainly  the  end.  payment.  When  I  think  of  how  I've 
There  was  no  use  trying  to  make  a  scrimped  and  saved— one  nickel  at  a 
go  of  it  any  longer.  She  might  just  time— to  get  that  three  hundred  dol- 
as  well  get  out  and  find  a  job  now  lars  and  then  you  hand  it  over  with- 
while  she  was  still  young  and  had  out  even  asking  me.  Now  Jones  will 
only  one  child  to  support.  sell  it  to  someone  else."  The  first  of 
Mentally  she  rehearsed  the  bitter  the  hot  tears  came,  to  be  followed  by 
scene  that  she  and  Rod  had  just  many  more. 
been  through  as  if  trying  to  convince  "There  wasn't  any  need  of  asking 
herself  that  it  had  really  happened,  you,"  said  Rod  tonelessly.  "He  had 
Within  ten  minutes  after  he  had  to  have  it.  And  he'll  make  every  ef- 
come  home  for  lunch  she  had  known  fort  to  pay  it  back." 
that  something  was  wrong  when  he  '^He  may  have  the  best  intentions 
failed  to  go  in  to  the  baby  or  mention  in  the  world  but  it  will  be  the  same 
the  scones  which  were  his  special  gtory    over    again,"    she    retorted. 
favonte.                           ^    ^  ^,  .^  "Your  father  intended  to  pay  his 
Pausing  by  his  chair  she  had  laid  ^^^^  ^      ^^^^  ^^     t  the  money  for 
down  the  plate  with  the  piping  hot  ^^^^  ^^^^^    -^^^  of  l^nd." 
scones  and,  tweaking  his  ear  play-  u^   .  i       '^^   •    x.    ■     -u-^*.-^^^* 
fully,  had  said,  "All  right,  out  lii  .    ^^'  ^7^^^%^"'^  ^^'  ^'^  ^""'^ 
it.  Have  you  quarreled  with  the  boss  interrupted  Rod.                             ^^ 
or  lost  that  wallet  I  save  you  for  "Two  years  is  quite  a  bit  of  time, 
Christmas?"  said  Daphne  icily.   "And  then  your 
"It's  worse  than   that,"  he  had  sister  had  to  have  the  next  bit  to  go 
answered      heavily.      "Sit      down,  to  New  York." 
Daphne.    I  mught  just  as  well  tell  ''But  Jed  only  had  a  week's  fur- 
you  first  as  last.  Uncle  Steve  came  in  lough  and  maybe  it's  the  last  time

194 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1946 
she'll  ever  see  him.  I  couldn't  refuse  baby's  clothing  and  her  own  feelings 
—not  my  own  sister/'  he  pleaded.  at  the  same  time. 
''Don't  I  know  it?"  she  snapped.         "I  love  to  come  here/'  said  Sister 
"And  now  here  it  is  again.  And  not  Mortensen,  sinking  down  into  a  large 
even  one  of  your  own  family.  Next  chair.  ''It's  such  a  delightful  room, 
you'll  be  handing  out  our  savings  to  I  believe  you  said  that  you  were 
every  acquaintance  that  comes  along  thinking  of  buying  the  house." 
and  happens  to  be  in  a  tight  pinch         "Yes— we  were  thinking  of  it/'  re- 
and  I  never  will  have  a  home  of  my  plied  Daphne,  a  bit  unsteadily.  "But 
own  or  any  security.  Well,  I'm  not  I'm  afraid  we've  changed  our  minds 
going  to  stand  for  it.  I'll  get  out  and  now." 
earn  my  own  money  and  keep  it 
where  your  relatives  can't  get  their 
hand's  on  it." 
It  was  at  this  point  that  Rod, 
white-faced  and    shaken,  had  risen 
"Oh,  dear!  I  do  hope  that  you 
aren't  going  to  move  away,"  ex- 
claimed Aline.  "I'd  be  terribly  sorry 
to  lose  you  from  my  district.  It's 
such   a   pleasure   to   know   a  fine. 
from  the  table,  without  ever  having     normal  young  family  like  yours  in 
touched  his  lunch,  and  gone  out  of 
the  house,  and  now  Daphne,  in  her 
agitation,  sat  rocking  the  baby  and 
giving  vent  to  her  angry  thoughts 
and  emotions  by  talking  aloud  to  the 
baby. 
OEALIZING,  half  unconsciously, 
that  she  would  have  to  act  quick- 
ly while  her  resolve  was  supported  by 
anger,  she  set  the  baby  down  in  his 
crib,  brought  out  a  couple  of  suit- 
cases and  started  to  pack. 
She  was  interrupted  by  the  ringing 
of  the  doorbell,  and  hastily  dabbing 
a  bit  of  powder  over  the  tell-tale 
streaks  on  her  face,  she  picked  up  the 
baby  and  went  to  the  door.  She  drew 
a  quick  sigh  of  relief  when  she  saw 
that  it  was  Sister  Mortensen,  the 
visiting  teacher.  She  was  such  a 
pleasant,  understanding  soul.  Just 
the  sort  of  person  to  whom  she  could 
tell  her  troubles— if  she  knew  her  a 
little  better— or  if  this  were  the  sort 
of  thing  that  she  could  tell  to  any- 
one. 
"Do  come  in,"  she  said,  opening 
the  door,  and  while  her  guest  was 
being    seated    she    smoothed    the 
these  days  of  change  and  divorce." 
"Yes,"  agreed  Daphne  hesitantly, 
"there  is  more  divorce  now  than  in 
your  day,  but  perhaps  times  are  dif- 
ferent—perhaps there  is  more  reason 
for  it  now." 
"Bosh,  child,  times  are  no  differ- 
ent and  people  are  no  different.  I 
guess  there' ve  been  mighty  few 
couples  that  it  didn't  take  a  lot  of 
stamina  and  forgiveness  and  just 
plain  intestinal  fortitude  to  stick  a 
marriage  out— what  with  taxes, 
measles  and  plumbing  repairs  always 
cropping  up  at  the  wrong  time." 
"But  not  you,  I'll  bet,"  ventured 
Daphne  with  a  smile.  "You  look  so 
good-natured  and  even-tempered 
that  I  imagine  an  earthquake 
wouldn't  upset  you." 
"Yet,  even  I  ran  home  to  my 
mother  once,"  she  returned  with  a 
chuckle.  "That  is,  I  went  part  way 
before  I  realized  how  silly  I  was  be- 
having and  turned  back.  And  it  was 
all  on  account  of  a  sick  dog  that 
Henry  brought  home  and  was  nurs- 
ing on  my  best  satin  living  room 
pillow.  I  still  want  to  laugh  when  I