[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 601 | Fiction | The Secret of Blueberry Hill-Chapter 2 | Rosa Lee Lloyd]
Then she wondered The Secret of Blueberry Hill Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 2 if he were on his way to San Francisco and had merely stopped over to pay his respects to the family. He traveled for Hoffman Hardware Company and it could be coincidence that he was on the same plane as Elizabeth and Steven. Anyway, she was happy he came. He was looking at her now with the same wistful smile that she remembered from their childhood. "You knew I'd be here," he said holding her hands in both of his. "When Elizabeth called me this morning I knew I would come if I had to hang onto the wing of their plane. I want to help you, Lila Bob." There it was again, that old nickname from those long ago days. "Norman," she murmured. "I'm so glad you came. Really glad." The moment was very confused as they all circled around Lila. Her regal, beautiful sister, Eliza- 

601 August 1970

 beth, who was now head nurse at Center City hospital, enfolded Lila in her arms and wept with remorse because she hadn't been here to help Aunt Lucinda. '"'We might have saved her!"' she said, tearfully. "All these new methods we have now to help people and my own darling aunt had to die without one bit of help. Oh, forgive me, Lila, I didn't mean that the way it sounded. I'm just sick about this whole thing." "I know, dear," Lila comforted her. "We all are. But Aunt Lucinda was all right when she went to bed. She was reading when I peeked in an hour later. Dr. Harrison said her heart just stopped beating." ped!" Elizabeth insisted. "Steve and I should have made her have regular checkups and proper attention—there I go again saying the wrong thing!" "She had a checkup last week," Lila said, defensively. "Dr. Harrison said she was good for twenty years." "Dr. Harrison was wrong!" Elizabeth looked down from her regal height and Lila thought, Elizabeth is beautiful when her dark eyes flash with feeling. It was easy to forgive Elizabeth because she did love Aunt Lucinda with a fierce devotion. And she was a nurse and wished she could have helped her. "How about a kiss for your big brother?" Steve cut in. He was the gentle peacemaker in the family. No one ever argued with Steven. Somehow everyone nearly always thought he was right about everything. Lila put her arms around his 602 neck and clung to him for comfort. "We're still blocking traffic," Johnny interrupted. "Let's start for home. Then we can have some real old-fashioned arguments like when we were kids. You can referee, Norman." As they turned the corner onto Clover Street Lila could see a man on the front porch pacing impatiently back and forth. They all recognized Orson Ketchum at once. "Of all people!" Elizabeth said. "Whoever thought he'd be the first one here!"' "Now Elizabeth—" Steven placated her, "he's come to pay his respects to Aunt Lucinda." ""Well—maybe," Elizabeth conceded as she stepped out of the car. "But I'll bet he's come to buy Blueberry Hill. Anyway—let's give him the benefit of the doubt." So they all greeted Orson Ketchum as a friend of Aunt Lucinda's and not as her lawyer who had tried to buy Blueberry Hill for the last twenty years. "T noticed you are locking your doors, too," he said to Lila after the greetings were over. "It's a sad day in this country when us folks out here have to lock our doors day and night." "Signs of the times, Mr. Ketchum," Steven said as they went inside the house. "We didn't have a key to this place when I was a boy. We were honest ourselves so we figured our friends and neighbors were honest, too. But nowadays it's hard to tell the tramps from the citizens. We used to have about two tramps a year drop by. Aunt Lucinda gave them a good meal but they had to work for it. 'We MclIntyres work for everything we have,' she would tell them. 'So if you're well enough to tramp across this country, you're well enough to cut us a stack of wood.' " Orson Ketchum's long face with deep lines from nose to mouth creased into a_ smile. "Sounds just like Lu McIntyre," he said. "A great woman. Strongminded, unyielding, even a little stubborn, but a really great woman. I always called her my beloved enemy. I will miss her—more than I can tell you children. We need more people with her courage and convictions." His voice faltered and he cleared his throat. "There was nothing she wouldn't do to make good men and women of you. And she did sacrifice for you—I can tell you that now." His voice broke again. It was a moment before he continued. "I will miss Lucinda. It's like losing someone you had to live up to. Someone who made you strive harder to be a better person. You all know what I mean. Well—now I'll be going on." He reached in his coat pocket and took out an envelope. "I came to give you this. It's not to be read until after her funeral. That was her request." They all looked at him questioningly as he handed it to Lila. "No..." he shook his head. "No, Lu didn't know she was going to leave us. But she was a woman who took care of things, just in case the unexpected did happen. Good-bye now. My wife and I will be at the funeral. I suppose it will be Wednesday." Lila walked to the porch with The Secret of Blueberry Hill him. "Thank you for coming, Mr. Ketchum," she said kindly. "We all appreciate it so much." "Take care of that letter," he said. "Put it in a safe place." She watched him start down the path; then he stopped and looked at the bright red roses on both sides of it. Suddenly he stooped, picked a tiny bud and put it in the lapel of his coat. It was the first time in her life she had noticed Orson Ketchum even look at a flower. That was a real tribute to Aunt Lucinda, she thought, pensively. Had _ they misjudged him all these years, she wondered? Did people go through life having feelings of prejudice against other people because they didn't understand them? "Qh, Lila!" Susan Wilkins called across the lot next door. "I have a telephone message for you. I wrote it down so I wouldn't forget it." Loita walked halfway across the lot to meet Susan. Sunflowers were a yellow glory all around her. She loved them even though they were sticky this time of year. Home wouldn't be home without wild sunflowers to brighten this vacant lot between the McIntyre and Wilkins' houses. "Mr. Harrington called twice while you were gone," Susan told her. "I didn't know where you were so [ couldn't explain." "Thanks, Susan. I should have told you we were going to the airport." "He seemed real charming," Susan added, smiling at Lila. "He said he would be over later. I wrote it down." Lila folded the note and put 

603 August 1970

 it in her sweater pocket, with the envelope. "Hello, Miss Lila." She turned to look at the tall boy getting off his bicycle. He leaned it against the wall of the house and walked through the sunflowers toward Lila. It was Casey Wilkins! She hardly recognized him lately since he had let his blond hair grow down over his ears. Only last week Lila had heard Aunt Lucinda refuse to let him mow her lawn until he cut his hair. "Then your lawn will grow real long, Miss McIntyre," he had answered. "I like my hair this way. It's the style." Brunt Lucinda had_ looked him over, head to toes. "Casey Wilkins, now you listen to me. You're a good boy. I've liked your work. I like the way you treat your mother since your father was killed last year and 'you ride your little sister Pearl to school on your handle bars. But the way you've let your hair grow all bushy over your ears and around your neck is downright unsightly." "It's the style, Miss MclIntyre," he had insisted determinedly. "You should get with it." "Get with it!" Aunt Lucinda had repeated to Lila as she stamped into the kitchen. "That boy! Only fourteen, and he told me to get with it. That boy's mother should use a cane!" Lila -had laughed and _ told Aunt Lucinda that Casey didn't mean to be disrespectful to her. "Maybe not," she agreed. "But he'll have to get a haircut before he can have his job back!" The lawn had grown shaggy 604 the past month and so had Casey's hair. Now he walked toward Lila as she stood in the path between their homes. His mother went back into their house. "I just heard—" he said, "about Miss McIntyre, I mean. I feel awful—sad—inside." He looked at Lila as though coaxing her to help him find words to say what he meant. "I feel like something strong and good—has gone out of this crazy world. I didn't even mean to offend her Miss Lila. I wanted to cut her lawn but I didn't want a haircut. She didn't understand—how it is—with a boy these days." His voice stumbled. He kicked at the dirt path. "Ill cut the lawn for nothing, if you'll let me, Miss Lila." Lila looked at this tall, lanky boy wanting to make up for disagreeing with Aunt Lucinda. She wanted to tell him he could have his job back but she could not do it. She wanted to say, oh yes, Casey, you can have your job back even though you haven't trimmed your hair. But that wouldn't be fair to Aunt Lucinda. Casey looked ungroomed with his blond hair lopping over his ears and down the back of his neck. She would be unfaithful to Aunt Lucinda's efforts to help the young people of Skylark if she gave in to his request. _ "Pll have to think it over, Casey," she said. "You know Aunt Lucinda thought you would be a leader at Junior Club. She did make strict rules but someday you will know she was right." "Long hair is in," he persisted. "IT don't want to be out." "No one wants to be out," Lila agreed. "And you don't have to be, Casey. A leader who is a strong character can set the style. He can lead the other boys. She only wanted you to look like a gentleman, Casey." He blinked his eyes and bent his head. '"I—liked her, too," he muttered, "a lot. She was like a—well—". He lifted his head and looked at the big oak tree near the front porch, spreading its long leafy branches over the picnic table and the old swing. "She was like that tree, Miss Lila. Always standing there. Even when the wind blows like a tornado coming, I get up at night and look out the window. If that big old tree is still there I know Skylark is still on the map. I feel okay again. That's the way I felt about Miss McIntyre. She gave me my bike when I needed it for my paper route," his voice faltered again. ""Now—she's gone. I didn't cut her lawn—look at it! Why did she have to die, Miss Lila?" Lila's throat pinched in. She saw the wistful questioning in his young eyes, the tremble of his mouth and she prayed earnestly, Oh, Heavenly Father let me know how to answer him. He is so young; just at the crossroad, neither boy nor man. I want to say the nght words to him. The sky above them was very blue, the Kansas sun was warm and bright; the air was heavy with the fragrance of growing things. A flock of birds flew into the branches of the oak tree. Life about them was serene and peaceful. Lila drew a long breath. "I think her work here was finished, The Secret of Blueberry Hill Casey," she said very carefully. "She was needed somewhere else. After she rests awhile and visits with all our dear ones, she will progress. You learned in Sunday School that we believe in eternal progression. Don't you remember that she told you that work and prayer were the greatest things in life? I am sure there is work in eternity. She would want us to think of her as doing things, planning things, building things. She was a poet at heart, Casey. Many times I have heard her quote the lines, 'Build thee more stately mansions, oh, my soul.' Let's think of her as building more stately mansions." He looked steadily into Lila's eyes. "You mean, doing the Lord's work, Miss Lila?" he questioned. "That's what I mean, Casey. Only you said it better than I did." "Okay," he said slowly. "We'll think of her that way. But—Ill still miss her." Lila breathed a deep sigh of relief as Casey turned and walked back toward his home. Suddenly he swung around and ran back to Lila. "I just thought, Miss Lila. Now we can go up to Blueberry Hill. I promised Miss McIntyre that I wouldn't go and I never did. Neither did little Pearl. But now—it's different. Don't you think so?" Lila's fingers touched the envelope in her pocket. "Not until after the funeral, Casey. Please, let's all wait until we know what she wanted us to do." Lila took Aunt Lucinda's letter from her pocket as she went back into the living room. Elizabeth was resting against the gaily colored pillows on the 

605 August 1970

 lounge. Steven, Johnny, and Norman were seated in front of her with their feet propped up on the ottoman. They stopped talking when they saw her. "Looks like a pow-wow," Lila said as the men got to their feet. "Come in, join us, suggested, smiling at her. "First I must put this letter in a safe place," she answered, walking toward the mantel. "How's this?" bP) Steven thought, admiring her firm, lean body and lustrous black hair. Her dark eyes were bright and intelligent and she was tall, five feet eleven. She wore her clothes, even her white uniforms, with charm and dignity. But now, Lila noticed, there was a droopy weariness about her posture as though she needed quiet and rest. "Let's go upstairs, Elizabeth," Lila said on a sudden impulse. "A good idea!" Steven agreed. "You girls relax. We'll take care Yo _/ of everything down here." _ 9 Lila and Elizabeth went upA SS stairs together. Carefully she put the letter behind the Dresden clock that Aunt Lucinda had brought back from her European tour before the children came to live with her. The clock had been her most treasured possession. "Everybody, remember where _I put it," she told them. "How can we forget?" Johnny questioned. Elizabeth stood up, stretched her arms above her head. She is so queenly beautiful, Lila 606 on A Hip NOX RAV "IT love this old bedroom," Elizabeth said as she folded the crocheted counterpane and lay down on the bed with a grateful ~ sigh. "We've had such good talks _~right here, Lila Bob. Remember how you came bouncing in here after Norman taught you how to skate when you were only ten years old? We were all so proud of you!" "I remember," Lila mused, sitting down on the side of the bed. "And later on everyone thought it was wonderful that we won the junior prize at the 9. Midwinter Marathon. We skated A Le longer than any other couple." Elizabeth pulled a face and shook her head. "You mean Norman won it, Lila Bob. Johnny told us he practically carried you around that skating rink the last quarter of the race. Even Aunt Lucinda had to agree." Lila's cheeks pinked up. "I know," she admitted. "I would have flopped out at the half if Norman hadn't made me go on." Elizabeth looked closely at Lila. "We were wondering—what are your plans—now?" she asked. Her eyes were warm and loving. "You can't live alone in this big old house. We won't let you. You are very precious to us. It's high time we do something for you." "T_T haven't had time to make plans," Lila answered, "except a short trip to Kansas City with Johnny." "He told us. We all think you should reach out for life and happiness." Lila lay down beside her sister. Did they think she had gone stale here in Skylark, she wondered, achingly. After all she had been needed here. Aunt Lucinda had needed her. Elizabeth talked on in her practical way. She had always thought daydreaming was a waste of time, Lila remembered. You have to do things, she had told Lila last spring—not just wish for them to happen. "We can sell this old house," Elizabeth said. "It could be used as a small emergency hospital. Skylark needs a hospital. Steven and I have always planned to build one here where we could take care of our own townspeople. We are saving our money to start the project. Would you like to join us, Lila? We'll ask Johnny, too. He makes big money now." Lila sat up, looking at her sister. "Money!" she repeated. "Elizabeth, it will take a lot of money to finance a hospital. Even a small one. Think of the new equipment. That is the reason we don't have one in Skylark. Money!"' Elizabeth's eyes narrowed as she looked steadily back at Lila. The Secret of Blueberry Hill "Do you think Scott Harrington's bank will lend us the money? You've worked in the loan department for two years. You should know how his mind works by now." Lila did not answer quickly. She had learned not to make quick decisions or rash promises. "I don't know," she answered, carefully. "Scott has the last word on everything after the board of directors has made its decision. Yes, I have worked there for two years, but, Elizabeth! I really don't know Scott Harrington. He's quiet and aloof at the bank. I have been to the North River Club with him but that is all. That was formal; as formal as Scott is." Elizabeth's eyes were quizzical. "I have wondered about you, Lila Bob. Do you still have that little-girl crush on Scott?" Lila swallowed hard. So Elizabeth hadn't forgotten how Lila used to look at Scott when he came home with Steven. Her blue eyes flickered from her sister's. "You do!" Elizabeth said. "Don't say that!" Lila gasped. "He doesn't even look at me. Not really. Not as a grown-up girl. I'm just little Lila McIntyre in the small-loan department. The kid sister of Steven and Elizabeth. He asks about you both— often. But he scarcely notices me." Elizabeth's eyes went over Lila from her sunny light hair to her shapely feet. "Scott Harrington must be blind or stupid or in a rut," she said, indignantly. Then her voice gentled. "You are such a darling, Lila Bob. Your hair is like our 

607 August 1970

 mother's was, golden-red and curly. Natural, too. That's such a treat these days when you see all this lank, straggly, unkempt hair. And your eyes are as honest as the sun over Kansas. Your mouth was made to say sweet things and croon to babies. That is why Aunt Lucinda hoped you would marry young. Once she nearly suggested that she had a boy picked out for you." "She hoped it," Elizabeth insisted. "You're not like I am, Lila Bob. Everyone who looks at me thinks I am able to face the world on my own. I guess I am. But you—well, you need love and marriage. And babies. I'll have to get on without those things." Lila's heart quickened. Had she heard a wistful longing in Elizabeth's voice? Did her strong capable sister have a womanly yearning for a home and husband and children? Elizabeth had been away from Skylark for eight years, except for vacations. College, nurse training school had kept her busy. Now she was superintendent of nurses. At Center City Hospital. She was the symbol of success to Lila and yet—there had been a tone of longing in her voice when she spoke of marriage. Elizabeth closed her eyes and lay quietly. Lila thought again how lovely she was. Would there ever be a man equal to Elizabeth, she wondered? One who could match her regal manner and not feel frustrated. Lila leaned back on her pillow and closed her eyes. She wanted everything good and beautiful for her sister, whatever it might be. 608 "You're tired." Elizabeth patted her hand. "Let's try to sleep awhile." Lila pretended to rest but her mind was in turmoil. This was a time of change and crises in her life. Only the Heavenly Father could show her what she should do, she thought as she finally drifted off to sleep. Johnny's voice awakened them. He was standing in the doorway. "Hi, sleepyheads! It's almost five o'clock. Time to wake up." Lila got to her feet. "Oh, Johnny! Why didn't you call me sooner. I should have started dinner. Now I don't know what we'll have to eat!" "Come here, Johnny," Elizabeth said. "I want to talk to you. Dinner can wait." Johnny shook his head. "Not now," he said. "A certain guest downstairs won't wait much longer. Better powder your faces and comb your hair. The great Scott Harrington is_ getting restless." Lila's_ throat pinched in. Scott Harrington was downstairs! Elizabeth yawned as she sat up. "He'll have to take us just as we are," she said. "Without glamor. A fresh white blouse and a dark skirt will be appropriate, Lila Bob." Lila, looking at Elizabeth a few moments later as they went downstairs thought how Elizabeth was always right. She knew the right thing to wear, the right thing to say and the right time to keep still.. Now, dressed in her tailored white blouse and dark skirt, she looked like a cross between Florence Nightingale and Princess Grace. HT il Scott came forward to meet them. Lila noticed he was impeccably dressed in a dark suit and gray tie and his hair was freshly combed. His smile had warmth and friendliness and the priceless ingredient of compassion. He had lost his father, his only close relative, a year ago. "Blizabeth!" He extended both his hands. "It's been a long time since we saw each other. And Lila," his smile included her. "That little girl I have seen every day. She is my right-hand helper." There was a moment when Lila felt that was a special compliment. Then he turned his wholehearted attention to Elizabeth. He touched her elbow and led her to the window seat. "The whole town will miss your Aunt Lucinda," Lila heard him say. - Lila walked over to Steven who gave her a brotherly kiss. "You look rested," he said. "I must start dinner," she told him. 'Everyone will be starving." "That's taken care of," he said. "Johnny and Norman have cooked up a meal." Scott came forward in his - commanding way. The Secret of Blueberry Hill "I want to ask you all to have dinner with me at the North River Club. We _ can have the private dining room. I know you would prefer that—tonight...." His voice trailed off. He was looking at ' Johnny and Norman standing In the doorway of the dining room. Both of them were wearing Aunt Lucinda's kitchen aprons. Beyond them Lila could see the \ table set for dinner. She met Norman's eyes. She au ab \'' knew it was he who had suggested il Hy 'that they start dinner while she and Elizabeth rested. No one had ever been more thoughtful of Lila than Norman. Even in this moment a flash of memory tinkled like a bell. Norman had been the boy who carried her down the mountain to the ski lodge when she sprained her ankle. He had patiently taught her to skate and swim when Steven and Johnny had given up. It was Norman who had walked her to school when she was afraid to go through the Old Hollow alone. Now all eyes were on Lila waiting to hear her answer Scott. Her throat tightened. How could he expect them to accept his invitation when the boys had prepared dinner here at home? But Scott was accustomed to having his suggestions accepted. And his suggestions were really commands. Lila lifted her head and her chin squared off. She would not hurt Norman and Johnny even though she did work for Scott Harrington. Before she could speak she was surprised to hear Elizabeth's voice, gracious, but positive. "I'm sorry, Scott. The boys have 

609 August 1970

 prepared dinner here. Please stay and dine with us. We would love to have you, but we can't leave now." There was a breathless pause. Lila felt the thump of her heart falling like a hammer. Would Scott say goodnight and leave abruptly? Lila had never heard anyone turn him down before this moment. He met Elizabeth's dark eyes and a sort of challenge passed between them as they looked steadily at each other. Then Scott smiled and Lila thought, it's like watching ice melt in the sunshine. He touched Elizabeth's shoulder. "Of course I'll stay," he said gallantly. "Thank you for the invitation. We can go to the club another time." Lila hurried to the kitchen to help serve dinner. Scott was really a human being, she thought in amazement. All the girls at the bank thought he was a computer without a heart or a soul. A moment later Elizabeth came in. "Whew!" Johnny wiped his head. "That was putting the top man on the spot. I could see little Lila collecting her unemployment insurance." "Thanks, Elizabeth," Lila murmured. "I wouldn't have let Norman and Johnny down for all the jobs in Skylark." "No, we wouldn't! And we didn't!" Elizabeth said. "Now that's over, let's have dinner. I think Steven should ask the blessing," she added. There was a broiled T-bone steak for each one, a baked potato, string beans, cucumber and tomato salad, bran muffins and Aunt Lucinda's blueberry jam. Scott Harrington was a charming dinner guest. He carried the conversation from one moment to the next and every time Lila looked at him he was looking at Elizabeth, waiting for her approval or reply. At last he had found a woman who was a challenge to him. Lila pretended to enjoy her dinner in spite of the little sick feeling that came over her. (to be continued) DS REGRETS Her years were very few upon this earth, The curtain fell too soon upon her drama, So unexpectedly, During the second act; And we who stayed behind to carry on, Wondered if we had played our roles, As well, as wisely, As the parts were written.