[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 577 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

woman's international service organization. The announcement was made at the La Sertoma annual convention in Chicago in June. Mrs. Parmley was cited for "humanitarian service to mankind, not only in her community, state and nation, but in the world."' She has been Primary president since 1951, and is the only woman to serve on national Boy Scouts of America committees, and was named a member of the National Religious Relationships Committee of the Boy Scouts in 1968, and was also named a member of the General Scouting Com. Mittee of the LDS Church. Turi Wideroe, an attractive thirty-twoyear-old Norwegian, is the first woman pilot for a major commercial airline in the western world.: Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. J.- Willard (Alice) Marriott, vice. President and director of Mariott's Hot Shoppes, and a member of the Board of the National Ballet Society of Washington D. C. Has been appointed by President -Nixon, Chairman of the John F. Kennedy Center of Performing Arts. The committee will advise the Center's Board of Trustees on cultural. Activities. Mrs. Marriott, a former Utahn living in Washington D. C. Is an active Latter-day Saint and has held many prominent roles in political and Civic -affairs both in Washington and nationally. Mrs.: Paul A. (Lorna) Clayton, an active Relief Society worker of Salt Lake City, has been appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to the Board of Directors of the John F. Kennedy Performing Arts Center in Washington, D. C. Unusually well qualified, Mrs. Clayton was, ten years ago, a member of the organizing board of the Utah Branch of Young Audiences, Incorporated; two years ago a national board member,: assigned to Utah; and as of September first, she will be a member of the national board at large. Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain and Princess Anne made a nine-week tour of Fiji, Tonga, New Zealand, and Australia in the spring, and were joined by Prince Philip and the Prince of Wales for most of the trip. Mrs. Bernice Gibbs Andersen, of Corinne, Utah, was honored in May as Mother of the Golden Spike Celebration, at Promontory, Box Elder County, Utah. Writer and historian, she applied her enthusiasm and pioneer spirit to the creation of annual re-enactments of the joining of an eastern and a western railroad by the driving of the famous Golden Spike at Promontory in 1869..