We love The Relief Society Magazine. It has been a choice part of our training program

throughout our married life. My husband and I are eagerly awaiting the next issue.

He is the patriarch of the Whittier Stake, a convert of almost forty-nine years, a person

beloved by all who know him. Ina May Rollins Reinsch, Whittier, California

safely and in excellent condition. It will take its place in our library beside the bound

volumes throughout the years. I a m constantly referring to the contents of the Magazines,

and am pleased to see our elders using them for references and inspirational thoughts.

Ardella A. Davey, Supervisor, Canadian Mission Relief Society,

Brampton, Ontario, Canada

I wish to express my appreciation to my friend Virginia Helms for sending me this

interesting, informative, and inspirational Magazine— The Relief Society Magazine.

Although I am not of your faith I enjoy all the articles, and particularly the poetry, and

especially the lessons. What a comfort in these days of need.

Geraldine Dennis, Montgomery, Alabama

I was just looking over the contents of the May Magazine when i I came across the

story "Whatever Will Become of Rory!" It just made me sit down and read it right

just phoned to tell us Rory had been in some trouble. When we talked to him about

it he just said, "Mom, I really don't mean to get into trouble. It just happens." The

story made my husband and myself just laugh because we really felt the story had been

written about our Rory. Jolayne Hudson, Calgary, Alberta, Canada

I just had to write and tell you what a lovely issue the May Magazine is, and what a

thrill it was to find my little reminiscence "Whatever Happened to Singing?" a part

of it. I especially enjoyed Sister Pettit's article about her sweet mother ("A Beautiful

Journey," by Aline R. Pettit of the General Board of Relief Society), and the article

"Children Grow Up With Poetry," by May C. Hammond has great cultural value for

use and reference in the home. Olga Milius, Granger, Utah

I was thrilled to read the article "A Beautiful Journey" in the May issue of The Relief

Society Magazine. I recall serving as a visiting teacher in the Las Flores (California)

Ward, where I well remember Sister Lydia Rawson's outstanding monthly message to

us. She and her family are an inspiration to me. Rita B. Crapo, Rexburg, Idaho

We really love The Relief Society Magazine. I even read special things to my husband

and children. It has so much instruction, entertainment, inspiration, beautiful pictures,

and poetry— all in one little Magazine that will fit in your purse.

Shirley A. Harvey, Barre, Vermont

I do enjoy the sensitive poetry from the sisters everywhere published in the Magazine,

besides its many other valuable features and its inspirational helps to me in my position

as one of the social relations teachers in our Brigham Young University Ward.

Lea Diane Seabury, Provo, Utah

I enjoy the Magazine so much and also my position as cultural refinement leader in

our ward. I often think I am learning more teaching cultural refinement than I did

in four years as an English major. judy Shell Busk, Long Beach, California

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.© 1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Satt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 563

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out) ===
Please enroll neemeapstioe — and send mea resccataloge the "Review Card" each month or else purchase the that month. For every $20 of non-discounted books I will receive a BOOK! I am purchasing $4.95 now and will receive a $3 book I joining. One per person! (For postage and handling add 25¢ ordered. In Utah add 4%% sales tax.) I have enclosed $ - -.--..--.---- "Beehive 626 "H*' St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 ° an 'The Individual and Human Values" TPO Fetes eer re sens v8©°9990 9950 BoG000000Knn Family Living' $2.25 Around Us"' "Intelligent Vol.4 "The World "Community Responsibility" °° PO CCAR 9NGOOn onan ORDER FROM DE East South Te So. Main, Town & Cou SERET BOOK COMPANY Lake City, Utah 84110 ntry, Orange, Calif. 92668 12345 Please send me items circled: Ordering f-om Salt Lake fornia residents orderin account. KO money order, or O ch Aug. 1970 Rs. Sweeten up your day! A sweet treat recipe from CpthiaLectt LUSCIOUS LEMON BAR COOKIES CRUST 1 cup soft butter 1% cup powdered U AND I SUGAR Dash salt 2 cups flour Combine all ingredients and mix well. Press mixture into 9"x 13" pan. Bake at 350° for 15 minutes, or until nicely browned. FILLING 4 eggs, beaten Y cup flour 2 cups granulated U ANDI SUGAR __ 6 tablespoons lemon juice Combine flour and sugar, mix in beaten eggs and lemon juice. Pour onto the slightly cooled crust. Bake at 350° for 25 minutes, or until set. Cool and sprinkle with powdered U AND I. Yield: 3 dozen 142" cookies. Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, U and I Sugar Company Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.