[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 611 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
The Secret of Blueberry Hill "I want to ask you all to have dinner with me at the North River Club. We _ can have the private dining room. I know you would prefer that—tonight...." His voice trailed off. He was looking at ' Johnny and Norman standing In the doorway of the dining room. Both of them were wearing Aunt Lucinda's kitchen aprons. Beyond them Lila could see the \ table set for dinner. She met Norman's eyes. She au ab \'' knew it was he who had suggested il Hy 'that they start dinner while she and Elizabeth rested. No one had ever been more thoughtful of Lila than Norman. Even in this moment a flash of memory tinkled like a bell. Norman had been the boy who carried her down the mountain to the ski lodge when she sprained her ankle. He had patiently taught her to skate and swim when Steven and Johnny had given up. It was Norman who had walked her to school when she was afraid to go through the Old Hollow alone. Now all eyes were on Lila waiting to hear her answer Scott. Her throat tightened. How could he expect them to accept his invitation when the boys had prepared dinner here at home? But Scott was accustomed to having his suggestions accepted. And his suggestions were really commands. Lila lifted her head and her chin squared off. She would not hurt Norman and Johnny even though she did work for Scott Harrington. Before she could speak she was surprised to hear Elizabeth's voice, gracious, but positive. "I'm sorry, Scott. The boys have 

609 August 1970

 prepared dinner here. Please stay and dine with us. We would love to have you, but we can't leave now." There was a breathless pause. Lila felt the thump of her heart falling like a hammer. Would Scott say goodnight and leave abruptly? Lila had never heard anyone turn him down before this moment. He met Elizabeth's dark eyes and a sort of challenge passed between them as they looked steadily at each other. Then Scott smiled and Lila thought, it's like watching ice melt in the sunshine. He touched Elizabeth's shoulder. "Of course I'll stay," he said gallantly. "Thank you for the invitation. We can go to the club another time." Lila hurried to the kitchen to help serve dinner. Scott was really a human being, she thought in amazement. All the girls at the bank thought he was a computer without a heart or a soul. A moment later Elizabeth came in. "Whew!" Johnny wiped his head. "That was putting the top man on the spot. I could see little Lila collecting her unemployment insurance." "Thanks, Elizabeth," Lila murmured. "I wouldn't have let Norman and Johnny down for all the jobs in Skylark." "No, we wouldn't! And we didn't!" Elizabeth said. "Now that's over, let's have dinner. I think Steven should ask the blessing," she added. There was a broiled T-bone steak for each one, a baked potato, string beans, cucumber and tomato salad, bran muffins and Aunt Lucinda's blueberry jam. Scott Harrington was a charming dinner guest. He carried the conversation from one moment to the next and every time Lila looked at him he was looking at Elizabeth, waiting for her approval or reply. At last he had found a woman who was a challenge to him. Lila pretended to enjoy her dinner in spite of the little sick feeling that came over her. (to be continued) DS REGRETS Her years were very few upon this earth, The curtain fell too soon upon her drama, So unexpectedly, During the second act; And we who stayed behind to carry on, Wondered if we had played our roles, As well, as wisely, As the parts were written. 610 —Ruth G.

Relief Society Activities Since The Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue, stake Relief Society presidents and mission Relief Society supervisors are advised to make no further submissions of ''Notes From the Field," inasmuch as a sufficient number of Notes are already on hand for the remaining issues of the Magazine. Rose Park North Stake (Utah) Holds Visiting Teacher Convention and Luncheon, February 14, 1970 Front row, left to right: Alice A. Campbell, visiting teacher message leader, Rose Park North Stake Relief Society; Laura C. Miles, former president. Back row, left to right: Fay F. Evans, First Counselor; Faye H. Stephens, SecretaryTreasurer; Martha I. Whitehead, Second Counselor. Sister Miles reports: ''The theme of our visiting teacher convention and luncheon was 'Visiting Teaching, the Heart of Relief Society.' It was carried out in valentine decorations and favors. The program consisted of a presentation of 'The Stranger Within Our Gates,' and music provided by sixty-nine Singing Mothers under the direction of Marilyn Mecham and accompanied by Carolyn S. Wilson. 'Sister Alice Campbell has served as visiting teacher message leader since our stake was organized in 1966, and has held this position in either stake or ward for twelve years. She is a source of inspiration and strength to all of the sisters in the stake." Luana T. Gowan is the new President of Rose Park North Stake Relief Society. 

611 August 1970

 Moapa Stake (Nevada) Sponsors Literary Contests, Song-Writing Contest, and Singing Mothers Concert March 9, 15, 1970 Left to right: Edith Knight, winner in short story; Carrie Andersen, essay; Yvonne Lyon, cultural refinement class leader, Moapa Stake Relief Society; Lou Jeanne Lewis, poetry winner, Louise Stewart, song winner; Verna Bowler, chorister. Elaine Whipple, President, Moapa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The winning entries in a literary contest held in our stake were printed in a lovely booklet and distributed at our Singing Mothers concert. The winning song was performed by the Singing Mothers. ''Two concerts were held because our stake is so widely scattered. The sisters had to travel great distances to practices, but we were most pleased with their cooperation and with their performances. We feel that these contests and their winners do much to encourage creativity among the sisters of our stake. Dearborn Stake (Michigan) Singing Mothers Present Spring Concert, April 3, 1970 Front row, at left: Hallie Baker, chorister, Dearborn Stake Relief Society. Seated at the piano: Joyce Michels, stake organist. Marianne Beggs, President, Dearborn Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A lovely narration tied together, fourteen musical numbers presented by our Singing Mothers in their spring concert which had the theme, 'Looks Like Spring Is Here.' ''An essay contest 'What America Means to Me,' was held in conjunction with the program, and two patriotic numbers were sung setting the stage for the reading of the winning essay by Barbara Harris of Ypsilanti Ward. Spanish Fork Stake (Utah) Thirteenth Ward Celebrates Birthday of Relief Society in Old-Fashioned Way March 17, 1970 Morgan Coombs driving Marie Huff, President, Spanish Fork Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, and her counselors Norma Jones and Gloria Anderson on a tour of the ward to extend invitations to the Relief Society birthday celebration. Virginia F. Moody, President, Spanish Fork Stake Relief Society, reports: ''One of the most unique and outstanding events in our stake was the birthday celebration in the Thirteenth Ward. The spirit of 1842 was brought to life by the horse and buggy ride to extend invitations, the authentic pioneer costumes, and the decorations and menu. 'About seventy sisters attended and were delighted with the event. Pioneer furniture and articles were used as decorations. The dinner consisted of chicken and homemade noodles with mashed potatoes, buttered carrots, homemade bread, and home churned butter. The dessert was cake topped with jelly and homemade ice cream. Honey candy and pouches of raisins were favors. An entertaining program under the direction of Clara Arnold was presented to the delight of all.'' 

612 August 1970

 Alpine Stake (Utah) Climaxes Sewing Classes With Fashion Show, February 19, 1970 Officers of Alpine Stake Relief Society, back row at left: Lurae Ault, homemaking leader; second from right and far right: Erma Burgess, former president; Helen Beck, Homemaking Counselor. Sister Burgess reports: ''A delightful Spring Fashion Show climaxed sewing classes conducted for the sisters of our stake. Sisters from each of the wards were taught basic sewing, alterations, and pattern fitting. Similar classes will be taught in the wards with these sisters as instructors. '"'A clever narration was presented while background music augmented the dresses of well-designed, modest spring frocks being modeled. The clothing ranged from dressy dresses to mother-daughter fashions." Helen O. Beck is the new President of Alpine Stake Relief Society. Murray Stake (Utah) Presents ''Fashions for Teens and Queens," March 14, 1970 Jacqueline Geddes and daughters Debbie and Lori model while LoyDece Jones, stake homemaking leader, narrates. Belva J. Petersen, President, Murray Stake Relief Society reports: ''The stake Relief Society sponsored a luncheon and fashion show which was most popular with the 360 who were in attendance. The ward Relief Societies assisted with the preparation and serving. 'Twenty-seven models presented school clothes, sports wear, suits, knit wear, formals, wedding dresses, and lingerie. All of the clothing was home sewed and very lovely." Monument Park West Stake (Utah) Seventh Ward Presents Relief Society Yesterday and Today March 16, 1970 Front row, left to right: Lloyd Allen, Counselor, Seventh Ward bishopric; Mary Ann Hillyard; Marcia Mansell; Afton Wood. Second row, left to right: Marie English; Marjorie Smith; Ranee Howe; Vilate Jones; Janice Thomas. Top row, left to right: Jim English; Leona Allen; Lillie Ann Bradshaw; Florence Parsons; Dorcas Seymour. Bernice D. Shea, President, Monument Park West Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Monument Park Seventh Ward of our stake presented a most successful birthday celebration with the theme 'Relief Society Yesterday and Today.' "'About 180 sisters joined with their husbands to enjoy an evening of dining and a program consisting of narration, pantomime, song, dance, and fashions. Much of the program was delightfully humorous. Lovely table decorations were done in blue and gold. Everyone who attended felt that it was an enjoyable evening. Organ music was played by Art Cochrane. '"'LaVon Burt is president of the Seventh Ward Relief Society. Director for the birthday celebration program was Gloria Hyland."' 

614 August 1970

 Utah Stake, Sixth Ward Relates History of the Magazine At Anniversary Celebration, March 17, 1970 Front row, left to right: Clara P. Denham, President, Utah Stake Relief Society; Margo Duckett, Education Counselor, Sixth Ward Relief Society; Gale Conant, Homemaking Counselor; Phyllis Jacobson, SecretaryTreasurer and past president; Vera S. Madsen, President; Laura Hill, past president; Orilla Groneman, past president; Catherine Lund, stake visiting teacher message leader and past president; Vilma Wride, past president. Sister Denham reports: ''Each of the wards in our stake presented an outstanding Relief Society anniversary celebration. Three of the wards used the outlined programs of Compassionate Service. The other wards chose themes based upon the history of The Relief Society Magazine. The Sixth Ward honored all former ward presidents. "The history of the Magazine was related. Stories from the Magazine were retold, and several songs were presented about the Magazine. The hall was decorated with lovely spring flowers in blue and gold. The menu consisted of recipes from the Magazine, with reference to where they could be found."' Sevier Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present '"'Come Unto Me," and Perform at Conference, March 12, 15, 1970 Seated in front, left to right: Astrid Jenson, chorister, Sevier Stake Relief Society; Paulma Pearson, organ accompanist; Marva Cowley, stake organist, who accompanied on the piano. Edna J. Haynie, President, Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A group of seventy Singing Mothers presented the lovely musical production 'Come Unto Me.' Everyone who attended felt that it was a most uplifting and spiritual presentation. "After seeing the performance our stake president requested that the Singing Mothers present three numbers at stake conference. This was a thrill to the sisters as Elder Alvin R. Dyer and Sister Dyer were present at the conference."' Shelley Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Holds Singing Mothers Concert and Cultural Fair March 25, 1970 Bonita Kelley, President, Shelley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We were thrilled with the number of entries and the outstanding talents displayed at our Cultural Arts Fair held in conjunction with our Singing Mothers Concert. Chairman of the event was Deona Kirkham, Education Counselor. There were ninety-eight Singing Mothers under the direction of Janet Searle and accompanied by Cheryl Barney and Vita Dye. Our Homemaking Counselor, Mary Crofts, wrote the narration depicting the theme 'Strength of the Nation Lies in the Home.' 'Many paintings, hobbies, writings, ceramics, woodwork, and other arts were displayed. Entries were accepted from the brethren as well as the sisters. Dorothy Fielding, cultural refinement class leader, was responsible. For this part of the event. Refreshments were served to more than 600 people." 

616 August 1970

 Sanpete North Stake (Utah) Presents ''Mothers of Men'' to Honor Visiting Teachers, April 9, 1970 Front row, left to right: Glenda Staker, cultural refinement class leader, Sanpete North Stake Relief Society; Celestia J. Taylor, member, General Board of Retief Society; Ethel Ericksen, chorister, Sanpete North Stake Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Shirley Black, visiting teacher message leader; Eda Anderson, Spiritual living class leader. Louise B. Johansen, President, Sanpete North Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The theme of our visiting teacher convention this year was 'The Family—Strength of the Church.' The skit entitled 'Mothers of Men,' written by Celestia J. Taylor, was presented to the 427 visiting teachers and their partners. It was a special honor to have Sister Taylor attending, along with Sister Anna B. Hart, formerly a member of the General Board. 'Sister Taylor told of how she had been inspired to write the skit, and encouraged the sisters to make visiting teaching a way to help the mothers strengthen the home. Leland E. Anderson, stake patriarch from Provo, stressed the responsibilities of the priesthood in strengthening the home. Several appropriate musical numbers were performed. 'A special display of Magazine posters and bazaar items were viewed while refreshments were served."' 618 * * % * * % % * Lesson Department ESCESAESETESE ESE SS SPIRITUAL LIVING % * % Pearl of Great Price: I % % AY * AK AK 6 2K 2K 2K KK KKK KK KK Lesson 2 The Doctrine of the Godhead Reading Assignment: Books of Moses and Abraham Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To assist each Latter-day Saint woman better to fulfill her purpose in life by assuring her that God revealed to Adam a true knowledge of the Godhead that Adam's posterity might be reared in light and truth. INTRODUCTION The assumption of all scripture is that God lives. There is no attempt to prove that he lives, but man must rely upon what he has said about himself through his prophets. There was one occasion, however, when Korihor, the anti-Christ of The Book of Mormon, contended with the Prophet Alma over the question of God's existence. (Al. 30:19-48.) Korihor said he did not deny the existence of God, but he did not believe that there was a God, and he charged Alma with not knowing that there was a God, and he asked for a sign. (V. 48.) Alma answered: Thou hast had signs enough; will ye tempt your God? Will ye say, Show unto me a sign, when ye have the testimony of all these thy brethren, and also all the holy prophets? The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also all the planets which move in their regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator. (Al. 30:44.) A FIRST PRINCIPLE OF THE GOSPEL The Prophet Joseph Smith said that it was the first principle of the gospel to know for a certainty the character of God and "to know that we may converse with him as one man converses with another." (Joséph Fielding 

619 August 1970

 Smith Comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1938] p. 345.) The Savior declared in praying to his Father: "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." (John 17:3.) Class Discussion Why do you think that a knowledge of God is necessary in order for one to receive eternal life or godhood? APOSTATE DOCTRINE OF THE GODHEAD The doctrine of God as known in many of the so-called "Christian" creeds is that there is one God, without body, parts, or passions; consequently, God is a spirit only. The Nicene Creed, formulated in the year 325, declared that there is one God, yet there are three Gods. An excerpt from that creed illustrates this doctrine: "So the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Ghost is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God." (James E. Talmage. The Articles of Faith [Boston: University Press, 1890], p. 48.) Latter-day Saint belief in the Godhead is expressed in the first Article of Faith, as follows: We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. (Article of Faith 1.) THE DOCTRINE OF THE GODHEAD RESTORED Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have received, from the many revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith, a true knowledge of the Godhead. The first of these revelations was the First 620 Vision, received in the spring of 1820, when Joseph Smith was a young man in his fifteenth year. The following account of this experience restored the _ true understanding of two of the three Personages in the Godhead. I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! (Joseph Smith 2:17.) That God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ are separate beings of flesh and bone, and that the Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, is the third member of the Godhead, was subsequently revealed. (D&C 130:22-23.) From the Pearl of Great Price we learn that there were three members known to ancient prophets. In the account of the creation, we read the following: And I, God, said unto mine Only Begotten, which was with me from the beginning: Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and it was so. (Moses 2:26. Gen. 1:26 uses the pronoun "us" but without reference to "mine Only Begotten." See also Gen. 3:22 and Moses 4:28.) In the Book of Moses the Holy Ghost is mentioned as bearing record of the Father and the Son. (Moses 1:24; 5:9.) Men were called upon by the Holy Ghost to repent in the Adamic dispensation. (Moses 5:14.) The same power present today to baptize "with fire, and with the Holy Ghost" was operative in the days of the patriarchs. (Moses 6:66.) An explanation of Figure 7, Facsimile No. 2 in the Book of Abraham reads: "... The sign of the Holy Ghost unto Abraham " THE ETERNAL FATHER Members of the Church know that God the Eternal Father is the literal Father of the Savior Jesus Christ, who is known as his Only Begotten Son, and also of the spirits of all men. He is known as "Elohim." (Talmage, The Articles of Faith, p. 466.) Latter-day Saints are therefore commanded to pray to him, as the Lord addressed his Father: "Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name." (Matt. 6:9; 3 Ne. 20:31; D&C 18:18, 40.) About the Father of us all, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: God himself was once as we are now, and is an exalted man, and sits enthroned in yonder heavens! That is the great secret. If the veil were rent today, and the great God who holds this world in its orbit, and who upholds all worlds and all things by his power, was to make himself visible,—I say, if you were to see him today, you would see him like a man in form—like yourselves in all the person, image, and very form as a man; for Adam was created in the very fashion, image and likeness of God, and received instruction from, and walked, talked and conversed with him, as one man talks and communes with another. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 345.) Class Discussion What significance does the above concept of the Father have for you? THE FATHER TESTIFIES OF CHRIST Of the several instances in the scriptures when God, the Eternal Father, testified of his Son Jesus Christ, four of these times are recorded in the New Testament. (Matt. 3:15-17; Luke 0:22; Matt. 17:1-9; John 12: 23-30.) The Book of Mormon account was on the occasion of the resurrected Savior's appearLesson Department ance to the Nephites. (3 Ne. 11:7.) In our dispensation, the Pearl of Great Price attests to the fact that the Father recognized the authority of his Son Jesus Christ when he said to Joseph Smith: "This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!" (Joseph Smith 2:17.) Elder James E. Talmage pointed out the following regarding some of the ancient prophets: Unto Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham and Moses the Father revealed Himseif, attesting the Godship of the Christ, and the fact that the Son was the Chosen Savior of mankind." (James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ [Boston: University Press, 1915], p. 39; see Moses 186931288; 2:1; 472, 3; 6:67; 7:36, 3By 47, 53-59; 8:16, 19, 23, 24; Abraham 3:22- 28.) JESUS CHRIST AND THE OLD TESTAMENT PERIOD A Bible dictionary points out that the name Jehovah is one of the names of God (Exod. 17: 15), and out of reverence for the divine name, the Jews, around 300 B. C., used Adonai or Lord. Thus in the King James Bible "Lord" is used generally for the name of God. (John D. Davis, The Westminster Dictionary of the Bible, revised by Henry Snyder Gehman [Philadelphia: Westminster Press, 1944], p. 287.) In a modern revelation, the voice of Jesus Christ is described as "the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father." (D&C 110:3-4.)