[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 581 | General Feature | Notes to the Field— The Relief Society Annual General Conference; Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet; Notice to Subscribers; Relief Society Literary | Contests Discontinued]
[Notes to the Field— The Relief Society Annual General Conference; Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet; Notice to Subscribers; Relief Society Literary Contests Discontinued]
She was chairman of the visiting teacher committee at the time of her resignation. She has always undertaken the many and varied responsibilities given to her in an attitude of sweet humility and has served with quiet ability and admirable efficiency. Sister Peterson and her husband are sure to be well received by the members and missionaries in Germany, and their service will be valued by many. The united love and best wishes of the Board and the sisters throughout the Church go with them as they continue in their unselfish service to the Lord. May they find joy in this new calling and receive the blessings which they so richly deserve. 580 Vol. 2 "Love, Marriage and the Hem" = 2.25 Vol. 3 "Intelligent Family Living"-______ _Hee eee ee LL 2.25 Vol. 4 "The World Pemmme --.- 2.25 Vol. 5 "Community Responsibility"--- _.22 1 7777 2125 581 CULTURAL REFINEMENT TEACHING AID PACKET A teaching aid packet is available for the cultural refinement class leaders.

It will contain four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces, with commentaries (printed in the June and September 1970 color sections of the Relief Society Magazine) to be used with cultural refinement lessons 2, 4, 6, and 7. The kit containing the four art masterpieces and commentaries is available from the Deseret Book Company for the price of $2.00, postage prepaid regular third class mail. Overseas orders should be sent direct to Deseret Book Company by international money order. (These cannot be obtained through the General Board of Relief Society.) If airmail service is desired airmail postage for approximately 12 ounces should be included. All orders for this kit should be placed with or picked up at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or at the Deseret Book Company branches in the Cottonwood Mall in Salt Lake City, Utah, or Orange, California.