[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 583 | Special Feature | Keep the Magazines | Sylvia Lundgren]
ary standards of the Magazine and whose thoughts, clothed in effective language and beauty of expression, have added to the quality and the value of the Magazine. 582 from (6) hat Should I in my pe n With the ol rsonal bo uMes an The first ma One like; ects Virtue," by n. So [ decided to Home," told me d found at ¢ Sibly thy. Ww Save that to Mount the beau throwawa "i could O another new r Sister did to 8° to Zion. * Many reminded me of Onferenc when I was Y lifted m On the Stake © out of MY world of itude. Put €se dear ]j ttle cannot throw As tall 4S Uplands are higher than the low.. As tall as rega} hemlock OF proud p You were kind-tal. Temple-s Oplars Srow. I_I _ &€Nerous.

[Keep the Magazines Sylvia Lundgren]

Taj > Pire-tall, as the highest timber. All this - Of you Ward. I. And remember. ® 6 We will look up —Alda Larson Brown 583 Relief Society —Arctic Style Marva D. Beck w It was fourteen below zero on the thermometer outside the dining-room window as the big boys left for school. Daddy had long since left to teach his earlymorning seminary class, and except for the icy windows life went on as usual, with not much thought to the cold outside. This was Relief Society morning, and with Mother being the president, the whole family usually helped to assure that everything went smoothly. Besides, this was homemaking day. That meant an extra trip or two to the car for the big boys to carry supplies and casseroles and salads for lunch. Daddy had made sure that the car was "plugged in" before he left early in the morning. (If we don't have extra heaters in the car and plug them in during the winter the car just won't start! This happens occasionally, anyway, and that means a frantic call to a counselor or a neighbor to get a ride for Mother, two little ones, and mountains of supplies and books!) Well, finally the car started and we edged our way to the church. Luckily we are only about 584 four miles away... Many sisters came much farther. Despite the bitter cold, many faithful sisters were there and we all spent an enjoyable morning quilting, and painting, embroidering, and doing the countless other things that homemaking meeting _ brings. At noon Daddy dropped by and picked up five-year-old Todd to take him to kindergarten. This was such a help, as then Mother didn't have to leave the other sisters especially right at lunch time. On their way to school they came across one of the sisters in the ward who was stuck, and so, in their chivalrous way, they stopped to help her get her stalled car out of the roadway and back to Relief Society. This made them a few minutes later than they expected. As a result Todd was late for school. When he arrived at his room, which is a relocatable building parked adjacent to the regular school building, the teacher had already called the roll and taken the children into the regular school building for gym. Todd went in, realized no one was there, and wondered what he should do. With five-year-old logic he decided there was no school that day and decided to return home. The school is nearly a mile in the other direction from our home! On his way home in the cold he suddenly realized that Mother was not home, but at Relief Society! What should he do? The only logical thing would be to walk to her at the chapel nearly five miles away... In subzero weather! The route he decided to take runs nearly all the way on streets with no houses. Past a local high school, a park, and otherwise unoccupied property. I wonder what people thought as they saw this little tike trotting down this lonely road on such a cold day. Todd reported that about six cars stopped and asked him if he would like a ride. He promptly reported, "No, thank you. My Daddy told me not to get in cars with strangers, and besides I'm just on my way to the Mormon Church." Finally the cold and _ lonelliness became hard, and I guess he continued the last two or three miles with tears streaming down his little cheeks. At the last intersection before he came to the chapel he encountered a fourway stop, and it was difficult for him to cross this busy street. At this point a kindly gentleman stopped and helped him across the street. When he finally arrived at the church nearly two and a half hours later, the initial shock of seeing him turned to concern for frostbite and other effects of the cold.