[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 628 | General Feature | Social Relations— God's Morality vs. Satan's Morality | ]
SOCIAL RELATIONS—Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 2—God's Morality vs. Satan's Morality Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help Latter-day Saint women become more aware of the presence and power of Satan in the modern world by giving guidelines and methods for distinguishing between God's morality and Satan's morality. INTRODUCTION For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so, my first-born in the wilderness, rghteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. (2 Ne. 2:11.) It is abundantly clear from the scriptures and from the writings and sermons of our Latter-day prophets that Satan is a real personage of spirit, that he and his followers are upon the earth, and that Satan's purpose is to thwart God's work by bringing the souls of men to destruction. 628 It is also clear that this opposing influence is permitted to move among men to provide the quality of opposition which makes it necessary for us to struggle with ourselves. Through this struggle, we build the kind of strength essential within those of us who would ultimately hope to exercise the powers of creation with the attendant responsibilities. Brigham Young expanded upon Lehi's words, which are quoted above, when he said that "Sin is co-eternal with righteousness, for it must needs be that there is an opposition in all things." (Discourses of Brigham Young, ed. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1941], p. 78; Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, pp. 2-3.) This suggests that we need to develop the ability to recognize and deal with opposing forces and evil influences beyond the term of our mortal probation. It is_ here, however, that we are tested and that we develop the strength to resist evil as well as the desire to exercise and support righteousness, not in rigid, defensive, selfrighteous ways, but in a mature, open, secure manner which reflects love rather than hate and fear. It would appear from the Savlor's teachings that preparing oneself and a family for life in the celestial kingdom, with all the creative potential implied, involves more than avoiding sinful behavior. The broad definition of morality depicted in the preceding social relations lesson stressed the importance of developing compassion, love, and nonjudging acceptance of others as a part of becoming truly moral. The Savior said it very simply: "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as_ thyself." (Matt. 23:39.) DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN GOD'S MORALITY AND SATAN'S MORALITY In a dictionary definition, the word "moral" is characterized by "excellence in what pertains to practice or conduct; right and proper.... Conforming to a standard of what is good and right. (Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary [Springfield, Mass.: G. & C. Merriam Co., 1961], p. 548.) Lesson Department The essential difference between God's morality and Satan's morality became apparent in the Garden of Eden. Satan's view of what was right and good revolved around the pleasure of the forbidden fruit and the advantages of simply knowing good and evil. God also placed value on knowing of good and evil, indeed saw such knowledge and resulting experience as a prime reason for placing man upon the earth. Perhaps the essential difference between the two views of morality is that God's morality includes the principle of assuming responsibility for one's own behavior as one encounters opportunities for good and evil. God's morality stresses virtuous, righteous, ethical behavior, while Satan's morality ends with self-knowledge, experience, and the freedom to know. Lacking _ responsible, ethical, excellent behavior, Satan's morality becomes a tragic distortion of what is_ truly moral. The whole point of free agency is the emphasis upon and the opportunity for freely chosen, responsible behavior which conforms with what God has revealed as producing eternal growth. Lucifer felt so strongly about his plan of forced good behavior and its rejection that he went to war against God. Lucifer failed in his effort to deprive us of our free agency and to relieve us of responsibility for our own behavior. His only remaining hope is to deceive and beguile. The focus of this lesson is on the adversary's efforts to deceive. Class Discussion In what essentials do God's morality and Satan's morality differ? 

629 August 1970

 WHAT IS SATAN'S MORALITY? The scriptures say that "the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made." (Gen. 3:1.) In this connection, Brigham Young described Satan's style as follows: The adversary presents his principles and arguments in the most approved style, and in the most winning tone, attended with the most graceful attitudes; and he is very careful to ingratiate himself into the favor of the powerful and influential of mankind, uniting himself with popular parties, floating into offices of trust and emolument by pandering to popular feeling, though it should seriously wrong and oppress the innocent. (Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 69; JD, 2:238.) That the adversary has an organization is evident from Joseph Smith's comments: "In relation to the Kingdom of God, the devil always sets up his kingdom at the very same time in opposition to God." (Joseph Fielding Smith, comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1956], p. 365.) Satan's morality today seems to be a more vigorous attempt to sell immoral behavior in the name of that which is rational and moral. Satan's current push seems to be less on selling pleasure in favor of selling what is "good" and "right." Look for the half truths and distortions in the following hypothetical advice given by Satan to our youth: (1) Take drugs and you will learn marvelous things about the creative potential of your own mind and the marvelous capacity of your body to experience pleasure. 630 (2) The old rules governing sexual morality are obsolete, unrealistic, unnecessary, and damaging to your fine sensitivities. When your cultural traditions tell you to exercise responsibility in your sexual conduct, what has really been meant all along has been to be intimate only with that person whom you really love and with whom you have meaningful emotional ties. Legal ties and responsibilities are a mere form which are not important. Your feelings and intentions are the important thing. (3) Your body is beautiful and that which is beautiful is good to behold. Dress to emphasize that which is both good and beautiful and this is one way of demonstrating your freedom from old rules of modesty which were irrational and repressive devices invented by your forefathers to manage their fear of their own good impulses. (4) Your forefathers and your fathers have recognized and sometimes effectively used protest as a valid tool for achieving social justice, but have never had the vision or the courage really to achieve their own noble ends. The evidence of their grotesque failures lie all around you: poverty, warfare, controllable but uncontrolled disease, exploitation, and environmental pollution. Reject their inadequate, unmanageable, and unworkable structures and strike out in new directions, with totally new techniques and political arrangements. Demonstrate your own moral courage by tearing at the very roots of the decadent society in which you live. Class Discussion What are the half truths and distortions in each of the above statements? Note the absence of any appeal to personal and socially reponsible behavior. Note the absence of any appeal to selfdiscipline, respect for the teachings and experience of the past, or any appeal to those ideals and standards of noble behavior taught by the Savior and by his prophets. Note the mingling of truth and half truth with blatantly false doctrine. In (1) nothing is said about the disadvantages of using illicit drugs nor about the relationship between self-controlled, conscious behavior and personal development. In (2) nothing is said about the qualities of commitment, loyalty, and sacrifice which are essential to building a strong and secure family. There is no real concern about the training and security of children. Mortals have codified such qualities and concerns into law and God has included them in the eternal nature of our relationships. (3) suggests that modesty is unnecessary and completely overlooks the fact that men's passions are aroused by immodest dress, and disregards such socially tested concepts as propriety and good taste. (4) grossly underrates the accomplishments of the past and overlooks the responsiblity not to change or destroy one form until something more workable and of more value to people has been developed. Chaos, anarchy, and disaster are courted in the name of making society more rational and_ responsive. In view of what we know about the adversary's nature, purposes, methods, and techniques, as well as our own vulnerability and imperfect knowledge, we need all the help we can get in distinguishing truth from error as well as in developing the will to apply true principles in our lives. HELP FROM THE HOLY GHOST A most essential source of guidance in discerning that which comes to us from Satan, is the influence of the Holy Ghost. Jesus said that the Comforter would guide us into all truth. (John 16:13.) The scriptures also make it clear that the only way we can come to know the things of God is by and through the Spirit of God. (1 Cor. 2:10-14.) If we are concerned about disLesson Department tinguishing between truth and error, between God's morality and Satan's morality, our attention can most profitably be focused on the prerequisites for having our lives illuminated by the Holy Ghost. All members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are given the gift of the Holy Ghost through the laying on of hands at the time they are confirmed members of the Church. This ordinance, formally and distinctly, gives us claim to help and guidance from this source in our efforts to live full and righteous lives. Receiving such help is, however, not automatic. Effort is required in the form of faith and desire. Class Discussion What if our faith is weak or the problem at hand has involved personal sin and the breaking of a specific commandment? In this condition, can we still legitimately ask for inspiration, strength, and the power of discernment from the Holy Ghost? Yes, if we have the desire, take steps to strengthen our faith, and consciously develop a repentant attitude and _ behavior. The kind of faith which leads to everlasting: life can begin as a small particle, even so small that it is only a desire to believe. (See Al. 32:26-43.) Latter-day Saint women have a great deal to bring to each other in their efforts to build faith and seek wisdom. The Lord has said, And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith. (D&C 88:118.) There are many other actions available to us for strengthening faith. Some of them are fasting and prayer, attending Church meetings, accepting responsibilities in the Church, freely giving 

631 August 1970

 compassionate service to others, bearing and hearing testimonies, and consulting with the home teacher, the bishop or branch president about troubling questions and problems. HELP FROM STUDY OF THE SCRIPTURES Our ability te distinguish between good and evil and between truth and error can be greatly facilitated by regular reading of the scriptures. The Latter-day Saint woman who is intimately acquainted with the scriptures knows a great deal about how the Lord has dealt with people in the past, will know more about what is doctrinally sound, and will be more clear about what the Lord expects of her. Through regular study of the scriptures, one can develop good judgment concerning what is right and what is wrong as well as a great desire to choose that which is good and right. SUMMARY Satan and his hosts are as real in the modern world as they have ever been. Satan's doctrine has been labeled as a form of "morality" because it is designed to deceive: One of his major strategies is to incorporate parts of true principles wherever: there is an opportunity for distorting their impact. This lesson suggests that Satan's "morality" can be recognized by the absence of an appeal to that kind of self-sacrificing, self-disciplined, responsible behavior which isin harmony with the Lord's commandments and the teachings of his prophets. The help of the Holy Ghost is essential in discerning the more subtle forms of Satan's "morality." cathe SOLACE FROM A BOOK In a crowded room, I heard the babble of many voices, Saw familiar and unfamiliar faces, yet— I was lonely. I walked beside a rushing brook, Felt spray as it tripped on rock and crag To nourish spawning moss. Again I was lonely. I followed a path through wooded hills, Saw sunlight play with shadows, Heard song of bird, hum of bee, still— I was lonely. Then I found a quiet niche, Opened 'a book, and friends came forth To sing, play, dance, weep, and live. Now I am nevery lonely! 632 —Lila L. Smith CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 2—A Thankful Heart Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To encourage within a woman a spirit of faith and gratitude to God and an attitude of reverence and worship through poetry and the other arts. We thank Thee, gracious Lord of Hosts, For all Thy generous hand Within the circle of our coasts, Show'rs on the teeming land. We thank Thee for the budding flower In summer glory drest, A revelation of the power Through nature manifest. —Theodore E. Curtis ART "Sunflowers" by Claude Monet (1840-1926) French, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. (Reproduction of Painting, page 448, June 1970) COMMENTARY We are grateful to the great artists in every field for what they reveal to us of the beauty of life that surrounds us and for the truth that is an essential part of what they seek to portray. During the latter quarter of the nineteenth century in France, a group of artists led by Claude Monet (sometimes called the pacemaker of impressionism) were instrumental in discovering or inventing a different approach to painting now called impressionism. These artists were largely concerned with capturing the momentary, the transitory, the spontaneous instant, and fixing it permanently on the canvas. Their great interest was to discover a way to represent the vibrancy of light, color, and atmosphere. Instead of mixing the colors on the palette and then placing them in the space on the canvas, they felt a greater feeling of vibrant light would occur if spots of contrasting colors were placed next to each other on the canvas, then viewed at a distance, allowing the colors to mix in the eye of the viewer. The sensation received was very exciting, more real, and similar to the instant sensation a viewer might have of a first impression. If you will look closely at the juxtaposed spots of color in the painting ''Sunflowers'' you will see the contrasting colors placed next to each other—red against green, yellow next to violet, orange next to blue. The impressionists revelled in the beautiful shimmer of reflected light and the richness of nature. Like ''Sunflowers,'' their works are almost a hymn of praise to the beauty of light. I 

633 August 1970

 In Volume 1 of Out of the Best Books (p. 49) we wrote: "Through the centuries men of literature, and especially poets, have traditionally been champions of the spirit and defenders of the faith." In Volume 4 (p. 179) we said: "Music delights us when we are happy, comforts us when we mourn, gives courage when we are frightened, stirs us when we are apathetic, sustains us when we are soul-troubled, and fills us with religious adoration when we worship." As we ponder the noble painting and sculpture of Michelangelo and other great masters, or contemplate the messages of our Latter-day Saint artists (for example, "Life from Death," reprinted with commentary in Volume 3, pp. 240-42 of Out of the Best Books), we realize the visual arts can likewise stimulate and deepen our spiritual responses. Throughout the five volumes of Out of the Best Books are found many stories, poems, essays, and discussions which express faith or relate to it in some significant way. In fact, three sections are centered on the subject of faith: pp. 47-107 of Volume 1, pp. 239-82 of Volume 3, and pp. 67-102 of Volume 4. In addition, many individual selections spread throughout the five volumes, also pertain to faith in one way or another. It is not the purpose of this lesson to reexamine all of those past selections. Rather, the purpose here is to bring together from the five volumes a few choice selections, especially some lovely short poems, and review these as expressions of reverence and worship. The month of November, when we celebrate Thanksgiving in the United States and all the world is looking forward to Christmas, seems a particularly appropriate month for such a lesson. Any or all of the following poems may be reviewed as especially suitable for study in this lesson and for use wherever short poems of faith and inspiration may be appropriate. "The Lamb" by William Blake, vol. 1, pp. 91-92. "T Never Saw a Moor" by Emily Dickinson, vol. 1, p. 93. "Little Jesus" by Francis Thompson, vol. 1, pp. 94-95. "The Windhover" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 1, pp. 96-101. ""God's Grandeur" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 1, pp. 102-4. "Still Falls the Rain" by Edith Sitwell, vol. 1, pp. 105-7. "The Hound of Heaven" by Francis Thompson, vol. 1, pp. 343-51. Sonnet 146 by William Shakespeare, vol. 1, pp. 453-54. "Death Be Not Proud" by John Donne, vol. 1, pp. 455-56. "And Death Shall Have No Dominion" by Dylan Thomas, vol. 1, pp. 457-58. "The Leaden Echo" and The Golden Echo" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 2, pp. 347-50. Sonnet 19 "On His Blindness" by John Milton, vol. 3, pp. 108-9. "Lead, Kindly Light" by John Henry Newman, vol. 3, pp. 149-50. "To My Dear and Loving Husband" by Anne Bradstreet, vol. 3, p. 226. "First Lesson" by Philip Booth, vol. 3, pp. 252-53. Sonnet III by George Santayana, vol. 3, pp. 254-55. "The Tide of Faith" by George Eliot, vol. 3, pp. 276-77. "A Good Night" by Francis Quarles, vol. 3, pp. 278-79. Psalms 8 and 23, vol. 4, p. 71. 634 Lesson Department "Crossing the Bar" by Alfred Lord Tennyson, vol. 4, pp. 78-79. "Uphill" by Christina Rossetti, vol. 4, p. 80. "Conversations at Midnight" by Edna St. Vincent Millay, vol. 4, pp. 223-24. In addition to the poems listed above, readers may wish to reread Joseph Mazzini's essay "Faith and the Future" (vol. 3, pp. 248-51). William Jennings Bryan's essay "Faith" (vol. 3, pp. 256-61), and William James's essay "The Will to Believe" (vol. 3, pp. 280-82). We also draw attention to the introductory comments for the section on "The Comfort of Faith" in Volume 4 with the powerful statements on faith by William Faulkner, Presi- I dent John F. Kennedy, and Thomas Carlyle (pp. 69-70). And for any who may have missed it, we reprint here from Volume 4 (pp. 14-15) the profoundly beautiful excerpt from John Donne's "Meditation 17," in which he expresses so superbly his faith in God and his feeling for human interdependence: All mankind is of one author, and is one volume; when one man dies, one chapter is not torn out of the book, but translated into a better language; and every chapter must be so translated. God employs several translators; some pieces are translated by age, some by sickness, some by war, some by justice; but God's hand is in every translation, and his hand shall bind up all our scattered leaves again for that library where every book shall lie open to one another. No man is an island entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main. If a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were, as well as if a manor of thy friend's or of thine own were. Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind, and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee. Neither can we call this a begging of misery, or a borrowing of misery, as though we were not miserable enough of ourselves but must fetch in more from the next house, in taking upon us the misery of our neighbors. Truly it were an excusable covetousness if we did, for affliction is a treasure, and scarce any man hath enough of it. No man hath affliction enough that is not matured and ripened by it and made fit for God by that affliction.... Tribulation is a treasure in the nature of it, but it is not current money in the use of it, except we get nearer and nearer our home, heaven, by it. Another man may be sick too, and sick to death, and this affliction may lie in his bowels as gold in a mine and be of no use to him; but this bell that tells me of his affliction digs out and applies that gold to me, if by this consideration of another's danger I take mine own into contemplation, and so secure myself by making my recourse to my God, who is our only security. Discussion Questions 1. What responsibilities of compassion, understanding, and happiness are suggested by Donne's statement, "no man is an island''? 2.

How can we be "matured" and "ripened" and "made fit for God" by affliction and tribulation? Some readers may think of this great passage as prose, but it is really more poetry than prose, having compression of thought and emotion and the rich imagery of language that characterize poetry.