[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 578 | General Feature | Editorial— The Mother and the Missionary | Louise W. Madsen]
The Mother and the Missionary @ One of the great contributions the women of the Church can make to the building of the kingdom of God on earth is to prepare their children to be missionaries. Knowing as we do that we are living in the Saturday evening of time, that the second coming of Christ is imminent, that the gospel must be taken to every kindred, tongue, and people, and that the members of the Church must do the Lord's work in this respect, it is apparent that there must be a great corps of young people ready to do their part of the work. A mother readies her children for their calls to be missionaries by creating in them the desire to go on a mission and fostering that desire throughout their growing-up years. She starts very early in their lives to implant the idea of making themselves ready. It is necessary to instill in them a willingness to serve since ''the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind'' (D&C 64:34) of those who serve him. An unwilling or slothful servant is not profitable to the work. The attitude toward a mission call as one of the important opportunities afforded to Latter-day Saints is usually the result of the parents' careful nurture and training. ) A mother prepares her children to be missionaries in two important ways, aS she guides their growth and education in spiritual and religious matters, and as she trains them. In the practical, temporal-aspects of their lives. The spiritual training begins. From the: moment of birth as the child feels the security of the love his parents have for him and as he. Is taught to understand the great love his Heavenly Father has=for him. — Children learn to pray as the family gathers in prayer and with his first attemps to speak, mother teaches him to pray. Early and continuous involvement in Church activities, attendance at sacrament meetings, participation in Church auxiliary programs give him a foundation of understanding. A wise mother encourages attendance at Seminaries and Institutes of Religion to give him a rich store of knowledge.. He should take advantage of opportunities to receive the benefit of counsel and hearing the stirring testimonies of returned missionaries. Habits of study should be well established. 

, SecretaryTreasurer 578 A mother, anxious to do the Lord's will and to instill in her children the same desire, will assist in holding productive, effectual Family Home Evenings. With her husband she will teach the gospel to her children. Her abiding, burning testimony will inspire them. Sons, honored in their priesthood, understand the great significance of the ordinations to the various offices of the priesthood. Daughters, honored in the wonderful role God has prepared for them, know there is a great work for them to do. The latter-day work has need of the strongest, most faithful, intelligent, and diligent men and women. Practical training is of vital importance. Young men and women who have learned self-reliance, self-discipline, self-control, and selfconfidence meet the rigorous demands of a mission well equipped. Good mothers teach their children to take care of themselves, to be independent to the extent of having firmly grounded habits of personal care. Proper health habits, cleanliness, pride in personal appearance and surroundings, all tend to make successful missionaries. Such simple things as bathing, brushing one's teeth, keeping clothes in good condition, and knowing how to spend money wisely come from good home training. Boys and girls should know how to prepare simple, yet nutritious meals. Good eating habits are essential if they are to keep well and have the strength for their labors. Boys as well as girls should know how to make their beds, keep rooms neat, wash their clothes and to make the best use of time. Some mothers are over-protective of their children who leave home unequipped in the very essentials of taking care of themselves. This is a disadvantage to the missionary and is often a burden to his companion. Early in life parents should provide projects to help the children earn money to be banked in a ''mission account.'' A mission requires all of one's talents and abilities. How fortunate the missionary who has been taught to develop his talents, who has, for instance, had music lessons. Since missionary work is person-to-person and success in approaching people to bring them the gospel depends in a measure on the basic amenities of politeness and courtesy, mothers are encouraged to teach their children good manners, to give them the confidence of knowing what is right to do in social contacts. Poor table manners Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Oflene J. Poulsen Aleine M. Young Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Marjorie M. Reeve Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Winniefred S. Manwaring Lila B. Walch Zelma R. West Helen G. Lach Mary R. Young Lenore C. Gundersen _Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Fanny S. Kienitz Marjorie C. Pingree 'Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Elizabeth B. Winters Darlene C. Dedekind Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron Irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Amy Y. Valentine Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Marian R. Boyer 

579 August 1970

 are so offensive to some people as to make them withdraw from further contact. It is important that missionaries know how to act in the homes of the people they contact. The practice of good manners should be simply second nature to a missionary. It is in the home he learns to be courteous and thoughful of others. A mother's work does not end with the preparation of a missionary. He needs her loving support, her frequent letters, her prayers and fastings for his success while he is on his mission. The Lord's work deserves the best efforts of all who have a part in it. The blessings that come to a mother who prepares her children to be missionaries are worth all of the effort required. The quiet satisfaction, the happiness of a goal accomplished, the soul-filling joy that comes from the accomplishments of her children, the spirit with which her home is blessed while the missionary lives close to his Father in heaven, the heart-warming knowledge that her children are actually in the service of the Father, and the assurance that, in all likelihood, they have set the tone of their lives, all are of supreme comfort. Each mother feels a little like Hannah as she gave her son to the Lord's service—an expression of her gratitude for having been given the privilege of bearing and rearing children worthy of the call. —L. W. M.