[Vol57 | August 1970 | Page 633 | General Feature | Cultural Refinement— A | Thankful Heart]
[Cultural Refinement— A Thankful Heart]

It is intended that poets should have the main voice in this lesson on "A Thankful Heart," for it is to poetry that we turn when we want man's most appealing expressions of faith— to the lovely Psalms of David in the Old Testament, or to some of the beautiful hymns of worship (poems set to music) that we sing in our Sunday Schools and sacrament meetings, or to such poems as the ones listed earlier in this lesson. These are not the 

635 August 1970

 only poems of faith, reverence, and worship in Out of the Best Books, but they are perhaps the ones most firm as expressions of faith, except for selections by Browning and Wordsworth to be included in special lessons later in the year. Most of the poems in the list are beautifully lucid and will communicate with no special difficulty to all readers, particularly with the aid of the brief discussions in the books. For readers who want the challenge of more complex works, Francis Thompson's 'Hound of Heaven" and the three poems by Hopkins mentioned in the list will be especially stimulating. SUGGESTIONS TO CLASS LEADERS ON LESSON DEVELOPMENT We print here several of the shorter poems as space allows for the benefit of those readers who may not have the books: "'The Lamb"' by William Blake Little Lamb, who made thee? Dost thou know who made thee? Gave thee life, and bid thee feed By the stream and o'er the mead; Gave thee clothing of delight, Softest clothing, woolly, bright; Gave thee such a tender voice, Making all the vales rejoice? Little Lamb, who made thee? Dost thou know who made thee? Little Lamb, I']l tell thee, Little Lamb, I'll tell thee. He is called by thy name, For he calls himself a Lamb, He is meek, and he is mild; He became a little child, I a child, and thou a lamb, We are called by his name. Little Lamb, God bless thee!

Little Lamb, God bless thee! 636 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine ts in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2. 55 Zoned... 275 Zone3 _.-_-_..60 Zone6.__.-.85 Zone4 ___._.65 Zone7 ~~..-- 95 Zone 8__ - - -1.05 I tag DESERET FRPeEews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 fotal plectric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Lesson Department ''] Never Saw a Moor" by Emily Dickinson Buy an I never saw a moor, P. - I never saw the sea; All Grain Stone Grinding Yet know I how the heather looks, s And what a wave must be. Flour Mill Today I never spoke with God, Nor visited in Heaven; Immediate Delivery Yet certain am I of the spot As if th rt were given. 1 e cha ere given Also available: High protein wheat for use or storage. Discussion Question What common factors are found in these two poems which add to their appeal? For full information, write: Sonnet 146 by William Shakespeare a P h tre of my sinful earth oe = oor soul, the cen. Rebuke these rebel powers that thee array! Ged ag Why dost thou pine within and suffer Dept. R. S. Dearth, P. O. Box 115 Painting thy outward walls so costly gay? Tremonton, Why so large cost, having so short a lease, Utah 84337 Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend? Openings available Shall worms, inheritors of this excess, for full or part-time Eat up thy charge? Is this thy body's end? Sales representatives. Then, soul, live thou upon thy servant's loss, And let that pine to aggravate thy store; Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross: A SOUL-TOUCHING GIFT Within be fed, without be rich no more.; So shalt thou feed on Death that feeds Proye™I on men, ur And Death once dead, there's no more I; ¢ W eda J oe dying then. V7) ( Kathy f ny Five prayers Exquisitely bound in white moire with gold lettering Discussion Question What is the central meaning of this sonnet? —_— = zl lother of the 'Brice "Lead, Kindly Light" by John Henry Newman = other of the Cfroom Lead, Kindly Light, amid the encircling His Hers Theirs gloom, — Lead Thou me on! HandKraft Art and Publishing Co. The night is dark, and I am far from na i 6323 ao Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 Lead Thou me on! Please send me ________ copies of Keep Thou my feet; I do not ask to see WEDDING PRAYERS by Kathryn Kay The distant scene—one step enough for at $1.75 each plus 25¢ postage and me. Handling for which I enclose $_ I was not ever thus, nor prayed that Thou a D M.0.0 Shouldst lead me on. —_ — I loved to choose and see my path; but _ = _ = STATE "ZIP Lead Thou me on! 

637 August 1970

 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR August 17-30 K HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Betsey MUSIC COMPANY "Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies \ Chenezper ~ Instruments Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS-. 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 638 I loved the garish day, and, spite of fears, Pride ruled my will; remember not past years. So long Thy power hath blessed me, sure it still Will lead me on, O'er moor and fen, o'er crag and torrent, till The night is gone; And with the morn those angel faces smile Which I have loved long since, and lost awhile. Discussion Questions 1. What does the "Kindly Light" in line one symbolize? 2. What does Newman mean in line three when he says: "The night is dark and I am far from home." What is the night? Where is home? 3. What is the implication of the last line of the poem? "To My Dear and Loving Husband" by Anne Bradstreet If ever two were one, then surely we. If ever man were loved by wife, then thee; If ever wife was happy in a man, Compare with me ye women if you can. I prize thy love more than whole mines of gold, Or all the riches that the East doth hold. My love is such that rivers cannot quench, Nor ought but love from thee give recompense. Thy love is such I can no way repay; The heavens reward thee manifold, I pray. Then while we live, in love let's so persevere, That when we live no more we may live ever. These lovely poems center in both faith and gratitude. The two are inseparable. When faith is strong, we are filled with gratitude to God for all that he has given us and for the assurance of all that lies ahead. When gratitude is strong, faith follows naturally, growing richer and deeper with each thing for which we are thankful. 104 Mrs. Amanda Crum Angle