Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1911						No. 9.


CONTENTS.
The Temperance Question...........Jos.  F. Smith	65
Do We Want Prohibition?..................................
..........................................Annie Wells Cannon	67
General Relief Society Conference.....A. W. C.	69
Relief Society Entertainment.............................	70
Women and Labor ............................................	70
Sketch of Julia P. Lindsay..................................	70
Sons of Revolution Cheer Women....................	72
Household Hints..................................A. W. C.	72
Relief Society Reports: Utah Stake...................	66
	       Granite  Stake.....................................	72
In Memoriam.....................................................	72
Editorial: Scientists and Philosophers...............	68
	Select Writings .........................................	68
	A Veteran Woman......................................	69
Notes and News .........................................65, 66,	72
Poetry: Some Day............................Helen Hunt	65
	Mother..............................Lillian Whatcott	65 
	The Old Stone Church................................
		.................................Alice M. Warren	67
	A Fragment.................................................	67


SOME DAY.
	Some day I shall be dead;
	Some day this tired head,
With all the anxious thoughts it now doth know,
	Shall be laid low.

	This body, pain-racked, ill,
	Shall lie at length, and still,
Under the clover and the wind-swept grass.
	Nor hear you pass.

	That were indeed strange sleep:
	When—even you—might weep
And come and go—even you—unheard of me ,
	As bird or bee!

	Nay, sweetheart, nay!—believe 
There is no cause to grieve;
One so wayworn, so sore opprest.
	Is glad to rest.

	Perchance when that release
	Hath wrought its spell of peace,
O’er this unquiet heart long vex’d with woe—
	Hearts-ease may grow.

	Who loves me will not weep
	When that I lie asleep,
But rather joy to think such sorrow may
	Have end some day.
							—Helen Hunt.


MOTHER.
Mother, most sacred name in all the earth,
How wonderful thy power to impel
In humble cottage, palace grand or prison cell,
Thy holy name soothes comforts and doth
	love compel.

Mother mine, to kiss your lips is love divine,
To feel your warm breath on my cheek
Is rarer far than words can ever speak;
To nestle close upon your breast
Brings nature’s choicest, sweetest rest.

To hear thy voice so rich and clear,
Speak words of comfort, love and cheer,
Restores the heart of pain
To warmth and smiles again.
					—Lillian Whatcott.


In a recent address, Governor Osborn of
Michigan, said: “I believe in woman suf-
frage. I hope to see the question put to a
vote of the people. I have been a believer
in the principles of woman suffrage for
many years.”


[Column 1]
	THE TEMPERANCE QUESTION. 
	The sentiment against the use of alcoholic
beverages is everywhere becoming stronger
and more stable among good and intelligent
men. The use of intoxicants is now seldom
if ever urged as a benefit or a necessity so-
cially or morally. On the contrary, it is
rightfully and most justly condemned as an
enemy to social, moral, and religious ad-
vancement. It is now generally conceded
that the moral and social standard of the
community as well as the individual is great-
ly enhanced by the total absence of intoxi-
cating liquor.
	Seventy years ago, the Lord said to His
people, through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
that “In consequence of evils and designs
which do and will exist in the hearts of con-
spiring men in the last days, I have warned
you, and forewarn you by giving unto you
this word of wisdom by revelation.
	“That inasmuch as any man drinketh
wine or strong drink among you, behold
it is not good, neither meet in the sight of
your Father, only in assembling your-
selves together to offer up your sacraments
before him.” To the Latter-day Saints, the
word of the Lord needs no confirmation,
but it is gratifying to note how science and
experience are proving the divinity of this
revelation.
	Investigations in physiology have dem-
onstrated conclusively the wisdom of this di-
vine declaration; and today physiologists 
throughout the land are warning millions
of boys and girls of the evil effects of al-
coholic beverages.
	A few years ago, it was thought that al-
cohol was good for a person exposed to ex-
treme cold weather. A little liquor, it was
believed, would “keep out the cold.” Though
the Lord had said it was not good, many
insisted that it was. The explorations in
the north have proved beyond a doubt that
the men who used alcohol perished of cold 
before those who abstained from the use of
it.
	In fact, so evident have the evil effects of
intemperance become that colleges, athletes,
railroads, and even nations themselves are
declaring against it:
	The lounger, the loafer, the drunkard, the
weakened character, the unfaithful husband,
the unreliable father, the ruined manhood
and debauched womanhood—all testify to
the evils and degradation following in the
wake of intemperance. 
	The recent State Legislature enacted a
law making it obligatory upon cities and
towns in Utah to decide by vote, June 27th,
whether or not saloons shall be licensed to
dispense alcoholic beverages. The question
plainly stated is this: Will the people in
each community continue to condone the
traffic in that which the Lord says is in-
jurious to man, or will they express their
disapproval of a business that undermines
society, debases the morals of a community,
and destroys manhood.
	To work thus in the interest of tem-
perance is highly commendable, and in har-

[Column 2]
mony with the teachings of the Church dur-
ing the last seventy-eight years. It is to be
engaged in a good cause; and the Lord has
said that “Men should be anxiously en-
gaged in a good cause, and do many things
of their own free will and bring to pass
much righteousness; for the power is in
them, wherein they are agents unto them-
selves, and inasmuch as men do good they
shall in nowise lose their reward.”
	The best way to teach temperance is to
keep the Word of Wisdom; and the next
best is to assist others to keep it by remov-
ing artificial temptations from their lives.
Such a temptation is the saloon, and it is
time that the sentiment in the communities
where the members of the Church reside
should be declared against this soul-destroy-
ing evil.
	Let no one suppose for a moment that the
liquor dealers, and their unfortunate tip-
pling patrons are going to yield the profits
of their traffic, on the one hand, the grati-
fication of their acquired and debasing thirst
for intoxicants, on the other hand, without
a desperate struggle.
	Those in favor of temperance and the
abolition of the drinking saloon as a means
to that much desired end, should realize that
they will have to meet most alert, wily and
determined foes, who will not hesitate to
use every possible means in their power to
defeat their opponents.
	Pro-saloonists will combine, will be ac-
tive, energetic and determined to defend
their craft; while there is danger that their
opponents, will be less wide-awake, less re-
sourceful and alert and thereby fail to match
them with that united, intelligent and deter-
mined effort so worthy of the temperance
cause. Let every man do his duty, as we
may well believe every true woman will do
hers.—(From Editorial in Juvenile In-
structor.)
				JOSEPH F. SMITH.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The women town councilors are reported
to have won in recent fight in Reykjavik,
the capital of Iceland. For several days
there was a deadlock in the town council
over the lighting of the city. All the men
members were in favor of electricity while
the women stood solidly for gas, because
they wished to use it for cooking also. Af-
ter considerable hesitation the mayor cast
his vote with the women.
	The aptitude of women for vocations hav-
ing to do with fabrics has gained recogni-
tion from one of the most famous textile
schools in the world, that in Grayfield, Ger-
many. Hitherto only men students have
been admitted, but the bars have been low-
ered and in behalf of an American girl, Bes-
sie Bennett, assistant director of the Chi-
cago Art Institute and curator of the muse-
um. Already well versed in textiles, she
will follow special courses in the German
institute on invitation of the head of the
school.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. 
		UTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Utah Stake, was held at Springville, April
20th, 1911. The singing was furnished by
the Stake Relief Society choir consisting of
fifty members.
	After the opening exercises of the morn-
ing session. Sister Julia Maycock wel-
comed the sisters and Inez K. Allen re-
spended. Miss Louie Robinson sang, “He
leadeth me.”
	The secretary read the summary of the
year’s work. General President, Emmeline
B. Wells, spoke of the organization of the-
Church; also of the transformation of
Brigham Young when the mantle of the
Prophet Joseph fell upon him, and the su-
perior personality of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	General counselor, Clarassa S. Williams,
spoke of the early trials of the saints and
their final triumph in reaching a place where
they could worship God according to their
own conscience; compared them to the early
settlers of America.
	Bishop Oliver Huntington spoke of the
first Relief Society and the good they have
done from then until now.
	Counselor Emily A. Holbrook urged the
mothers to gain the confidence of their
daughters. Sister Percia Bunnell spoke of
the proper training of children and provid-
ing work for them.
	General Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke
of preparing our children, both sons and
daughters, for missions. After closing ex-
ercises meeting adjourned until two o’clock.
A splendid dinner was served to one hun-
dred and fifty visiting ladies.
	The afternoon session was largely at-
tended. After opening exercises the gen-
eral and stake officers were presented and
unanimously sustained.
	George S. Taylor, visiting committee man
from the High Council, spoke of the testi-
monies of those who knew the Prophet
Joseph. Read a portion of the revelation on
the Word of Wisdom, also spoke of Pro-
hibition, and urged the sisters to study the
question. General President Emmeline B.
Wells, said the organization of the Relief
Society was the first woman’s organization
effected in the world, urged the sisters to
maintain the dignity of the Relief Society.
	A quartette—Sarah G. Ramsay, Sarah
F. Jones, Etta F. Whitehead, and Pearl
Jones, all of Provo, sang, “Tarry with me,
oh my Savior.” General Counselor Claras-
sa S. Williams spoke of proper employment
for children. General Counselor Julina L.
Smith spoke of genealogical work and the
good it is doing. Sister Lizzie Glispie ac-
companied by the choir sang, “An angel
from on high.” President M. A. F. Keeler
made a few closing remarks.
	After closing exercises conference ad-
journed for six months.
				MAY S. GLAZIER,
					Assistant Sec’y.
Summary of Year’s Work Ending March
			31, 1911.
	During the past year a number of changes
have been made in the stake organization.
Catherine Bassett resigned as missionary,
and Deseret Grey was chosen to fill the
vacancy.

[Column 2]
	Pauline Bean resigned as Treasurer and
Louie T. Brown was appointed.
	Nellie O. Parker, Assistant Secretary,
resigned and May S. Glazier was appointed.
	George S. Taylor was appointed by the
High Council to visit the organization in
place of J. H. Frisby, E. D. Partridge and
Bent Johnson, Jr., who were released.
	An excursion to Wandamere, Aug. 31st,
1910, proved to be a great success, both
socially and financially, after paying all ex-
penses the Society received $53.10.
	At our last conference we were greatly
favored with a lecture on Morality, by
Dr. Joseph Peterson.
	The stake officers feel it their duty to as-
sist all it is possible, in visiting the sick and
aged, so have been arranged in groups of
three, to visit the different wards in the
stake.
	Reports of the presidents of all the wards
in the stake have been heard by the stake
officers and greatly appreciated. All are in
excellent condition. The Provo Second
Ward Society raised $1,000.00 for their
meeting house.
	The Provo Fourth Ward has installed a
temple fund, by making and selling cloth-
ing and quilts. When a worthy person de-
sires to work in the temple and have no
funds, the Society sends them, thus increas-
ing the interest in temple work among the
saints.
	The Pleasant View Society purchased a
steel wheat tank that has given perfect satis-
faction. All associations report wheat in
good condition.
	The special missionaries report having
visited a great many homes of all denom-
inations, and with but few exceptions have
been treated nicely. They are doing much
good. The committee to visit the sick have
done all in their power to relieve those’who
are sick.
	During the past year Pleasant Valley and
Winter Quarters two of our wards have
been taken from us and given to the Car-
bon Stake, thus making a difference in our
report both statistical and financial.


Annual Relief Society at Roy.
	Minutes of the Relief Spciety Anniver-
sary of the Roy ward of Weber Stake, held
at the Roy meeting-house, March 17th,
1911. President Charlotte A. Hollands,
presiding, there were one hundred and fifty
people present. Singing, “O Ye Mountains
High;” prayer by Bishop Thomas Hollands.
	Singing, “Praise to the Man.” Minutes of
the last anniversary read and approved. The
program was rendered as follows:
	Sister Martha Jane Hammond gave a
short talk on the first organization of the
Relief Society, and gave the names of the
brethren and sisters that were present. Song
by Esteile Baker. Song by Jedediah Ham-
mond. Instrumental music by Lovinia
Brown. Song by John H. Hobson and
daughter, Lovinia. Recitation by Elizabeth
Gibby. Comic reading by Hattie Gibby.
Song by the two sisters Gibby. Select read-
ing by Emma Hammond. Song by John H.
Hobson.
	We next had a few remarks by Sister
Sarah A. Field. Said she always rejoiced
in the Gospel and in the Relief Society work,
said her testimony had been strengthened
by searching after the truth.


Duet by John H. Hobson, and company.
	President Hollands made some closing
remarks, was pleased to see so many pres-
ent. Singing, “Count Your Many Bless-
ings.” Benediction, Counselor Elizabeth V.
Jones.
		MARY E. DALTON, Secretary.


Annual Day at Fillmore.
	Sisters of the Fillmore Relief Society and
visitors of the ward met in the Latter-day
Saint Chapel, March 16, 1911, in commer-
ation of Annual Day which is March 17,
1911. Presided over by President Mary
Jane Kelly.
	Song, “O Ye Mountains High,” sung by
the congregation. Singing was led by Rob-
ert King. Prayer by Bishop Brunson. Con-
gregation sang, “We Thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.”
	The following program was rendered:
	Lecture, “The Key Turned in Behalf of
Woman,” by Sister Ann. E. Peterson. Duet,
sisters Rhoda Melville and Dora Anderson.
Reading, Sister Julia Day, Essay, “The gen-
eral presidency of the Relief Society from
the first organization to the present time,”
given by Sister Gertrude Robison. Song,
Sister Stella Day. Recitation, Sister Nel-
lie Huntsman. Bishop Peter L. Brunson
spoke for a short time, said he had en-
joyed the excellent program, and that of all
the organizations the Relief Society was
in lead. Spoke of Sister Yates, of Scipio
coming back in vision to Brother Orvill
Thompson. Piano solo, Sister Katherine
Woodhouse gave some very good advice.
President Kelly then stated she was pleased
to see so many out, and hoped to see as
many present to our regular meetings.
Spoke of the mothers’ plan for 1911. 
	Names of doners were then read. Con-
tinued further by congregation singing,
“Guide Us O Thou Great Jehovah.”
	Benediction by Brother Robert King.
			EDNA M. TRIMBLE, Secy.


Party At Black foot.
	Last Thursday, March 2, 1911, a very
pleasant surprise was given our President,
Mrs. Catherine Hesse by the members of
the First Ward Relief Society, it being the
anniversary of her birthday.
	After the regular meeting, all were in-
vited into the main hall of the Latter-day
Saint Chapel where a long table was spread
with everything that “goes to make the
heart glad.” A splendid spirit prevailed;
toasts, sentiments and songs made the hours
pass pleasantly.
	Mrs. E. J. Priestly, Counselor to Presi-
dent Hesse in behalf of the members in a
neat speech presented President Hesse with
a beautiful hand painted cracker jar as a
token of the love and esteem in which she is
held by her co-laborers.
	CORNELIA H. CLAYTON, Rec. Secy.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Alborg is the first Danish city where a
woman constable will soon appear in the
streets. She will wear ordinary dress, in-
stead of uniform, and her special duty will
be to keep a sharp eye on persons of her
own sex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE OLD STONE CHURCH.
Today I heard the church bells ring
	Out on the cool, clear wind;
It wakened memories sweet and sad
	Of years that lie behind.
I saw the old stone church, my dear,
	In that back country town;
Where not a shadow kept the sun,
	From pouring warmly down.

Around it rose the fair, green hills,
	Where fed the sleek, fat kine;
Or rested ’neath the wide-spread boughs
	Of maple, elm, and pine.
Near by the little churchyard lay,
	Its headstones white and low;
There lilacs ope’d their purple buds,
	And roses wild did grow.

In happy girlhood there I went
	To church, and never knew
That years before a little boy
	Sat in one high-backed pew.
Ah, Richard, nothing told me then,
	How sometime, I should see
That child’s sweet face within your own,
	And filled with love for me.

I well recall one Sabbath day,
	The summer time of year;
I stood within that time-worn desk,
	And felt the angels near;
I heard again the organ peal;
	Saw each familiar face;
And you presiding in the chair
	With quiet, manly grace.

How many feet who oft with us
	Have crossed that threshold o’er
Now tread the glad, immortal heights
	Upon the other shore
And voices that oft joined with ours
	In praise to heaven above
Still sing somewhere in better lands,
	Their songs of better love. 

Dear Richard, you may, some sad day,
	In parting, hold my hand;
Or I may be the first to go
	To meet that spirit band.
It matters not, I only ask
	That we rest side by side;
Beneath the lilacs’ fragrant bloom,
	Upon that green hillside.
					—Alice M. Warren.
Petersham, Massachusetts.


[Column 1]
DO WE WANT PROHIBITION?
	One evening this spring a number of
women working along reform lines attend-
ed a meeting of the City Council of Salt
Lake City. The matter of granting a retail
liquor license to the lesee of a public resort
situated in the heart of the city was ex-
pected to be decided. The officers of the
Juvenile Court having made the claim that
the beginning of the down fall of ninety
per cent of the girls brought before the
court might be traced to this particular re-
sort; these good women hoped, by their
presence at the council meeting to be able to
exert sufficient influence to cause the refusal
of the license. They arrived early and ar-
rayed themselves in the seats outside the
railing to the north of the council room. It
was a long session and every matter on the
docket from dog catchers to gravel beds,
including leaves of absence for policemen
and pasturage for useless horses connected
with the fire department was argued and
considered and voted upon, until the visi-
tors felt they had certainly attained a post-
graduate course in city gravel beds, and
were more than sufficiently educated in city
departmental work, besides being thorough-
ly fumigated with cigar smoke. But they
refused to accept their dismissal in any such 
polite(?) manner and determined to see the
thing through if it took all night, which it

[Column 2]
very nearly did, for it was midnight when
some of them reached home.
	However, they felt fully repaid, for the
license was not granted.
	To the south side of the room, opposite
the ladies, were a number of men, many of
them friends of the liquor man and during
the long evening it was quite possible to
make observations. Of one man in partic-
ular who sat there and who wanted this li-
cense granted, let me tell you a story. He
is now a red-faced, thick necked, bent,
coarse, ill-smelling fellow, but not many
years ago he was a tall, straight, fair-haired,
young Swede who courted a young Swedish
girl, who worked for one of these women.
The girl herself was neat, quick, and bright
a housemaid to please the most fastidious
of mistresses; and when she decided to wed
her suitor, it was with much regret that the
lady saw her leave. On account of the girl’s
conscientious work in her home the mis-
tress always felt an interest in her and had
watched and helped them along. The hus-
band was a good worker and they began
life in a little home built on rented ground
with the understanding that after a certain
amount of rent and interest was paid the
home was theirs. For a while they pros-
pered pretty well. After the first baby came
and the little wife was well again she wanted
to help increase the family income, as she
so longed to own her home, so she began
to take in washing. Together they saved
enough money to buy a horse and wagon,
the husband believing that by giving up his
position and running an express wagon he
could make more money and probably help
his wife more with her work by bringing
and returning her laundry work.
	Well, I don’t know how it happened first,
but probably in the cold weather, standing
waiting for a call the man was tempted to
“warm up his insides” with a little liquor.
At any rate it wasn’t long until a good many
of the dollars earned with the horse and
wagon found their way into the saloon man’s
pocket and the family living had to depend
almost entirely on the earnings of the little
wife. The family increased quite rapidly
and the services and help of friends and
neighbors had frequently to be given, but
the plucky little woman toiled on and each
time as soon as she could regain a little
strength, she would be at her washing again.
Soon in that home every day became a
wash day. The man still made a little, but
the rent fell in arrears and as the children
became old enough they too had to begin
to earn something to help buy food and
clothes. The girls at ten and nine years
went out in service and the boys at seven
and six began selling papers on the street. 
The little mother, her strength fast giv-
ing way, saw that she had attained that
glorious condition of motherhood only to
her sorrow and despair. Not only all her
husband’s earnings now went into the sa-
loon man’s pocket, but the little boys were
intercepted on their way home, at night and
their money taken from them to satisfy the
father’s beastly appetite. Soon the boys
began to seek new ways home and avoid
the father, but when they did a beating for
themselves and too often, alas, for the moth-
er also was the result of the deceit.
	To detail farther the pitiful story of that
family would be too sorrowful, but the
bright, intelligent, brave young girl who
so lovingly placed her trust in the tall young
Swede is today an inmate of the state men-

[Column 3]
tal hospital, a crushed and helpless inval-
id. The oldest girl can be found in a well
known house of ill repute. The other chil-
dren ran away from home and have been
cared for through the efforts of benevolent 
people. And this man, this husband, this
father, and others of his ilk sat in that
council chamber hoping by their presence to
have some influence to help that liquor man
obtain a license to drag down to their level
other men and women by the sale of their
nefarious stock!
	You don’t have to go to Kansas nor to
Maine for arguments for prohibition. Just
open your eyes and look around near at
home. Is there a man or woman who can
truthfully say that drink has ever been a
benefit to any one? Is it not degrading, is
it not injurious physically, mentally and
spiritually? In any of the pursuits of in-
dustry and education the partaker of al-
coholic drinks is legislated against and what
possible argument could there be to wom-
en to convince them that the open saloon is
a good thing. What does it do for you, it 
impoverishes the home, leads boys and girls
to destruction, blights reason, destroys hap-
piness, kills love and makes life itself a
burden. The story I have told at the begin-
ning of this article is true and it is only
one of many such cases that might be told.
The women of this state are on trial now be-
fore the nation and many eyes are turned
towards Utah to see what the women are
going to do. Be frightened because of a
great scare that “business will be injured,”
or brave the consequences and stand for the 
protection of the home and the honor of
the State. Women hold the suffrage and
generally you find them working for prin-
ciple regardless of what this one or that
one may think or say. If the cause is a
good one, and a just one, women generally
put their faith in the cause and are willing
to leave the consequences to fate believing
that the Lord, who overrules all things will
certainly take care of those who strive to
overcome evil. As Latter-day Saints who
teach temperance in all things, and in our
doctrine have the word of wisdom as a di-
vine revelation, let us not forget. Now is
the great opportunity for all true men and
women to place themselves on record
against vice and evil. If, as some people
tell us, “prohibition don’t prohibit” this elec-
tion if won will remove many temptations
from the sight of boys and girls and it will
be possible for school children to go to and
from school without seeing drunken men by
the side walks, without being attracted by
fine music, to look through plate glass win-
dows where gorgeous mirrors reflect the
sparkling beverage, tempting glasses, that
bring death and despair. Oh! may we all
remember that mighty prayer on the mount
of Olives that has helped mankind through
the centuries.
	“Lead us not into temptation,
	But deliver us from evil.”
			—Annie Wells Cannon.


A FRAGMENT. 
“Learn to wait Hope’s slow fruition, 
Faint not, though the way seem long; 
There is joy in each condition—
Hearts through suffering may grow strong. 
“Constant sunshine, howe’er welcome, 
Ne’er would ripen fruit or flower; 
Giant oaks owe half their greatness 
To the scathing tempest’s power.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	-	MAY, 1911


[Column 1]
SCIENTISTS AND PHILOSOPHERS.
	The present day is one of great research
and discovery, and men of superior intel-
lectual attainments are delving deep into the
mysteries of nature and of creative life, and
trying to solve problems that have with-
stood the test of time since the world be-
gun, as it were, by scientific processes, or
what has been termed by one popular French
writer “Creative Evolution.” In fact he
has written a book on the subject, which is
at least creating a sensation, but which so
few people will understand that it may not
do so much harm as it otherwise would.
	A writer in Current Literature for May
says: “M. Bergson addresses himself to the
most difficult problems, with which the hu-
man mind has to deal, etc. Even Wil-
liam James confesses that he does not un-
derstand all of Bergson, and adds, “I doubt
whether any one understands him all over
so to speak.”
	Without going into his philosophy or dis-
cussing his book, etc., one who knows the
revelations given in these latter days
through the Prophet Joseph Smith feels
when reading such articles as the one al-
luded to, and others of a similar kind, that
it is all vanity as the Preacher says in ec-
clesiasties, “Vanity of Vanities saith the
Preacher Vanity of Vanities: all is vanity.”
	Another verse reads, “One generation.
passeth away, and another generation com-
eth: but the earth abideth for ever,” etc.
	Some paragraphs quoted in the article re-
ferred to are very beautiful, but not con-
sistent with truth as taught in the Scrip-
tures, or by revelation in these latter-days
of the fulness of times.
	The Latter-day Saints have had such per-
fect teaching in regard to matters that are
essential to knowledge of the present, and
of salvation hereafter, that they are more
content than the outside world, and the
mysteries that are hidden and past finding
out must remain until revealed by Him, who
has created all things.
	It reminds one forcibly of the saying in
Job—
	Canst thou by searching find out God? Canst
thou find out the Almighty unto perfection?
	It is as high as heaven, what canst thou do?
deeper than hell what canst thou know?
	And yet notwithstanding the obstacles
that impede the solving of mysteries, men
(and women) still go on prying into the
hidden secrets of creative life, although they
know how useless it must be after all the

[Column 2]
centuries that are past. Even when the
Lord has revealed from time to time many
things, yet there are other underlying prin-
ciples possibly not yet revealed, that await
those who are to come forward into life and
action.
	The Key to Theology gives many sug-
gestions on the subjects M. Bergoson deals 
with, but differs widely also from his as-
sertions on the most important matters at is-
sue.
	There are perhaps but a few of our young
people that have ever read the wonderful
book to which we have here referred. If some
of the great philosophers would read the
Key to Theology and in a serious spirit (not
one of ridicule) thinking no good thing
could come from Mormonism, they might be
greatly enlightened on the questions, some
of them at least, over which they are puz-
zling their brains without much success.
	The Lord has revealed and does reveal
many wonderful principles that scientists
and philosophers are studying to learn, and
searching to discover, and the key notes
really given in the little book spoken of, but
there are other truths yet to be revealed
to those who keep the laws and command-
ments already made known to them.

“The mystic future with its depths profound
For ages counted as unbidden ground—
Now lifts its veil that man may penetrate
The secret springs the mysteries of fate.
Know whence he is and whither he is bound,
And why the spheres perform their ample round.”


SELECT WRITINGS.
	The above is the title of a new book by a
Mormon Patriarch, William Halls, at the
present time a resident in Mancos, Colorado.
The work has been edited by Edward H.
Anderson, Editor of the “Improvement Era”
and a man well known in Utah, and especi-
ally in Salt Lake City, for his careful edi-
torial work and excellent ability as a writer.
	The book contains a variety of subjects
opening with an autobiographical sketch of
the author which is very interesting and de-
picts briefly the varied scenes and circum-
stances of the true Mormon life and char-
acter. The conversion, the baptism, the or-
dinations, the journey to America and across
the plains; life in Utah, and missions, etc. 
These things are always interesting and
helpful to others who have had similar ex-
periences, and especially are such sketches
of pioneers, who have helped colonize this
western land. The noble men and women
who have endured hardships and peril by
land and sea for the Gospel’s sake deserve
honor at the hands of those who share in the
blessings and privileges they have helped
to establish and maintain.
	A variety of subjects are treated upon by
the Author, and in an interesting way; some
of them particularly so, and the book is one
that parents need not hesitate to put in
childrens hands, or in the Sabbath School or
other libraries.
	“A True Prophet—Why? Miracles, Miss-
ing Links, Tribute to Cӕsar, “What Life
Means To Me.” These are a few of the
titles to chapters. The book contains one
hundred and fifty pages, and is printed on
clear, white paper, and well bound in cloth,
presenting a neat and substantial appear-
ance. Such good books as this one of
Brother Halls should be encouraged, our


young people know very little of the Mor-
mon pilgrims and pilgrimages. Many of
them are utterly ignorant of the manner of
living in the early days in the valley. One
would conclude hearing some of our boys
and girls talk, that they know more an-
cient history and lands over the sea, than of
the Great West and the famous people, who
came first and settled in these beautiful
mountain vales. Such books as this one of
Brother William Halls would enlighten
them considerably in more ways than one,
if they would read seriously. There are
some parts of it, however, that are humor-
ous; and we wish the author success in its
circulation among the people of the West
and of the Church. It is safe reading for
boys and girls and will not lead them astray.


A VETERAN WOMAN.
	A pleasant party was given at the home
of Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Druce, Ninth East
Street, Salt Lake City, on the 17th of April,
1911. This was to celebrate the eighty-
seventh birthday anniversary of his mother,
Mrs. Julia Druce. There were about forty
people present, including members of the
family. Most of the guests belonged to the
old Twelfth Ward, Salt Lake City, of which
organization Mrs. Druce had been a mem-
ber for many years, having lived in that
ward ever since the year she came into the
city, in 1861.
	Mrs. Julia Druce was president of the
Twelfth Ward Relief Society for about
thirty years; and Mrs. Jemima R. Midgley
was associated with her, during all that time,
as first counselor. The late Mrs. Eliza D.
Hooper, also acted as second counselor, for
many years.
	A program of exercises, consisting of
songs, instrumental music, recitations, read-
ing, short addresses, etc., was rendered.
Some beautiful flowers, etc., were presented
to the guest of honor. Among these was
a very fine, large bouquet of roses, given to
her by members of the old Twelfth Ward
Relief Society. Mrs. J. R. Midgley made
the presentation address. After a part of
the program had been given, a very nice
supper was served. The tables, decorated
with flowers, etc., made a fine appearance.
A birthday book, was presented by Mrs. E.
B. Wells, who is an old and dear friend of
Sister Druce, and, in it, all the people pres-
ent were requested to write their names,
as a remembrance of the occasion. Among
the guests, was Mrs. Mary Alice C. Lam-
bert, also an old and valued friend whom
Mrs. Druce had known since early days in
Utah.
	Short speeches were made by Patriarchs
Joshua Midgley and George Brooks. Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and others,
also entertained us with some appropriate
remarks. At the close of the evening pro-
gram Mr. George Brooks was asked to dis-
miss with prayer. All then went to their
homes feeling happy and confident that they
had enjoyed themselves.
	Sister Julia Druce is a remarkable wom-
an, a fine personality, a woman of research
as well as study, with a valuable fund of in-
formation on many subjects, companionable
and genial. As President of the Twelfth
Ward, associated with her counselors she
accumulated property and was successful


in keeping it for the benefit of the poor. 
Above all she is a thorough Latter-day 
Saint.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER-
		ENCE, APRIL, 1911.
	The General Relief Society of the Church
assembled in conference in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall on Wednesday, April 5,
1911. President Emmeline B. Wells pre-
siding. The music was under the direction
of the Relief Society Chorister, Mrs. Lizzie
Thomas Edward, and Miss Edna Coray,
Relief Society organist.
	The morning session opened at 10 a. m.
by the congregation singing, “Come let us
Anew.” Prayer by Counselor Julina L.
Smith, singing. “Softly Beams the Sacred
Dawning.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a
greeting to the sisters assembled. Spoke of
the many glorious blessings and mercies
bestowed upon our people, and how grate-
ful she felt for the privilege of thus meeting
together to praise and worship the Most
High God. Hoped that while thus assem-
bled the workers of this great organization
would have a joyful time in the meeting of
friends and acquaintances and prayed that
there would be a flowing and overflowing
of the Spirit of God in our meetings, that
all would be satisfied to the fullest with the
conference. She blessed the sisters, every
one, and prayed for the Lord’s blessings
upon all.
	The President’s greeting was responded
to by Sister Harriet B. Harker, president
of the Salt Lake Relief Society, in a few
concise and pointed words. She referred to
her admiration of our general president, and
the great love all the sisters felt for her,
how her wonderful work and intellectual
attainments stood as an inspiration to the
women of Zion, referred touchingly and
lovingly to the life and example of our late
departed president, Bathsheba W. Smith
and expressed an appreciation for the great
work done in the different stakes of Zion.
	Louisa B. Benson, president of Oneida
Stake Relief Society, also responded to the
greeting in similar words, referring briefly
to stake work in general.
	Miss Edith Grant sang the beautiful song,
“I will lift up mine eyes.” Clarissa S. Wil-
liams then addressed the assembly. She
greatly rejoiced to see so many present at
the opening of the conference for she felt
that at the first session we received the key
note of the conference. In thinking of the
great work of the Relief Society a great
many questions arose in her mind, but late-
ly she had allowed her thoughts to dwell
somewhat on the first organization by the
Prophet, and the later development of the
work. The story of the organization though
an old story is always beautiful. It was a
direct answer to prayer and an inspiration.
And one thing that seems strange to me is
the fact that though the great work given
the sisters in the beginning was charity, still
not one of the other lines of work in which
we are engaged but was mentioned and
dwelt upon at the first meeting, by the
Prophet in his teaching to the sisters on
that occasion.
	She referred to Sister Emma whom he
named the elect lady and defined the ex-
pression “elect lady” as one who is called

[Column 2]
to preside and said we have many elect
ladies among us, not only the general pres-
ident, but presidents, of stakes and wards.
After the exodus from Nauvoo it was a
number of years before the work was re-
ceived in an organized way, but President
Brigham Young appointed Sister Eliza R.
Snow to continue the work of organization
and in under her fine excellent ability the
work of stake organizations was begun and
the system perfected, also in under the Relief
Society workers was initiated the organiza-
tion of the Retrenchment Society, after-
wards merged into the Y. L. M. I. A. and
the Primary Associations. Following Sister
Eliza was Sister Zina D. H. Young, then
we note a great development along charity
lines and later under Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith all we then had emphasized and oth-
er important works brought forth, notice-
ably the mothers work and the nurse work.
Many stakes now have begun to have the
nurse classes in their own stakes for the
slogan of the day is “keep your girls at
home,” better remain under the home en-
vironment at a dollar a month than risk the
pitfalls and snares for young women in the
city. Sisters of the Relief Society make it
your work to help the mothers keep their
girls from evil. The work of the Relief
Society embodies every good thing it should
be to the women, what the priesthood is to
the men. The Relief Society is the mother
organization and its possibilities are greater
than ever before. May we sense these re-
sponsibilities as mothers and sisters and
daughters in Zion, and I bless you with all
my heart, and I know the Lord does bless
you in your labors, Amen.
	Miss Elma Young sang a contralto solo,
“Ninety and Nine.”
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose continued along
the line of organization work and in a most
interesting way told of how organization
had spread to the islands of the sea and the
foreign countries. She described how the
elders go in boats along the coast of Nor-
way from one city to another, and there in
this northern land of the midnight sun, give
forth the message of the gospel, and wher-
ever possible have organized the women of
the Church into a branch Relief Society. She
dwelt at some length on the subject of the
age, of Adolescence, and urged the mothers
to be more diligent and careful in instructing
their daughters, for by the neglect of this
knowledge great suffering is caused.
	The congregation sang, “Oh ye Moun-
tains High,” and benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Carrie S. Thomas.
	At 2 p. m. The conference was resumed.
The congregation sang, “Glorious Things
are Sung of Zion,” and Sister Priscilla P.
Jennings offered the invocation. Singing,
“We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells then ad-
dressed the assembly, making reference to
recent public accusations against our peo-
ple and the necessity of answering them to
the women of the National Council with
whom we are affiliated in order to explain
our true position. She gave in detail our
relationship to the National and Internation-
al Councils of women. Dr. Jane W. Skol-
field then addressed the assembly on social
conditions. Her address was along the work
of social purity and she knew the necessity
of this work, for she had discovered that
Babylon had followed the people into these
mountains. Touching and heart-breaking

[Column 3]
instances she related that come to her per-
sonal knowledge, and she warned mothers
to keep their girls at home and to throw
around them every possible safeguard.
	Walter Lamareaux sang a bass solo,
“Rock of Ages,” after which Elder An-
thony W. Ivins, of the Quorum of the
Apostles, addressed the congregation on the
duties and responsibilities of the work of
the Relief Society. He dwelt at some
length on the importance of the word Relief,
and likened the work of this Society to the
teachings of Christ; referring to the parable,
that the good must be separated from evil,
the goats from the sheep, the tares from
the wheat, and they would enter into His
joy. And when they said, Lord when did
we not minister unto Thee He gave them
this great lesson. When He was naked they
had not clothed Him, when He was hungry
they did not feed Him, and they said, Lord
when saw we Thee in need, and here was
the key, in looking to do good in higher
places they had forgotten those around
them. Acts of mercy count with the Lord
whether administered with our own or a
stranger. He believed the Relief Society
tried to let love guide their actions and
if they did, and first loved the Lord, their
own, their neighbor, and even their ene-
mies, the Lord would surely bless them.
No kind act goes unapproved of the Lord.
	Mrs. Lizzie T. Edward most beautifully
rendered the song, “When the Swallows
Homeward Fly.”
	Sister Annie M. Cannon made a few tell-
ing remarks pertaining to general Relief So-
ciety work, followed by Second Counselor
Julina L. Smith, who spoke upon the sub-
ject of social purity and the broad charity
needed by the sisters in dealing with the dif-
ficult problems of their work.
	After singing, “Zion Stands with Hills
Surrounded,” benediction was pronounced
by Sister Rebecca N. Nibley.
	Saturday, April 8, the general and Stake
Officers of the Relief Society held an officers
meeting in the assembly room of the Bish-
op’s Building. There were fifty-three stakes
represented. The time of the session was
given over to the answering questions along
the different lines of work. Many impor- 
tant matters were discussed.
	Saturday afternoon, April 9, the confer-
ence reconvened in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in open session.
	After singing, “How Firm a Founda-
tion,” prayer was offered by Sister Julia P.
M. Farnsworth, singing, “Guide Us, Oh
Thou Great Jehovah.”
	Sister Alice M. Horne then addressed
the assembly on the subject of Thrift versus
Poverty. She mentioned how every spirit
comes stamped with infinity and to each
one comes the task of working out his or
her own individuality. The great sorrow
was that so many are unable to discover
their own special talent. But God has
blessed many people to help these uncertain
ones and discover for them their gifts and
talents. We should be responsive to the
Father’s call, thankful for the talents He has
given us, and through study and intelli-
gence pass on to perfection. Through our
great system of teachers in our work we be-
come acquainted with every member of
every family, and it should be the duty of
the Relief Society to help these our friends
to know themselves. There are many kinds
of poverty. Nothing grows in poor soil.


Poverty is the great stumbling block in
the developmenqt of everything. The great-
est cause of evil is poverty. The three con-
ditions we must study to overcome poverty,
are the earning power, the spending power,
and the saving power. Mrs. Horne thus
referred to the saving and thrift of the
French and compared them with the Amer-
ican people, and thought that through our
Relief work we should instil the desire to
save and not be forever spending. She
gave some very apt and pertinent illustra-
tions of the extravagance of buying in small
quantities for family use; and gave good
instructions along the lines of household
economics.
	Sister Edward sang, “My Faith in Thee.”
	Mrs. Wolstenholme, representing the
Home Manufacturers Association, spoke up-
on Home Industry.
	President Emmeline B. Wells expressed
her great joy for the glorious spirit of the
conference; spoke of the many splendid sub-
jects brought before us by the different
speakers, and the wonderfully beautiful mu-
sic. Advised the sisters to arm themselves
with prayer and faith, to ward off every
evil. After singing, “Come, Come ye Saints”
and prayer by Sister Phebe Y. Beatie, the
conference adjourned until October, 1911.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON, 
					Acting Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY ENTERTAINMENT.
	An entertainment was given by the
Twelfth-Thirteenth Ward Relief Society on
the 17th of March, 1911, in the amusement
hall of said ward, being the anniversary of
the organization of the Relief Society.
	Refreshments were being served, tables
being set for that purpose, and all was
beautifully decorated with ferns and pink
and white carnations. Having been com-
fortably seated at the tables, President Mary
Carrington spoke a few words of welcome,
wishing them all a good and enjoyable time
during the evening.
	Nearly three hundred persons were en-
tertained. After the banquet had been
served the tables were cleared away, and a
short program prepared for the evening was
rendered.
	Opened by singing, “America.”
	A solo was then rendered by Brother
Melvin Peterson. A piano solo by Dorriett
Evans.
	President Joseph E. Taylor gave a very
interesting talk on the work of the Relief
Society, also said that on the day of the
organization, sixty-nine years ago, there
were eighteen members, and today there are
possibly over forty thousand.
	A solo was then given by Mrs. Ethel
Leaver, followed by a solo given by Heber
K. Aldous. Sister Ellis Shipp, M. D., of
the Relief Society, then spoke for a short
time, her remarks being along the same line
as those of Brother Taylor. A solo was
then rendered by Sister Elma Young.
	Bishop F. B. Platt spoke a few words of
encouragement and asked God to let His
choicest blessings rest upon the Relief So-
ciety.
	After benediction, pronounced by Brother
Thomas Williams, an invitation was given
to all to stay and enjoy a good time in danc-
ing.
			HULDA C. ERICKSON, 
							Secretary.


RACHEL PORTER HONORED.
	The eighty-first birthday of Sister Rachel
Porter was held at the home of her daugh-
ter, Sister Alice Young, on the 11th of May.
She was born in 1830 in the State of New
York, and was the first president of the
Relief Society of Preston, Idaho. Many of
her old friends came to pay their respects to
her; of her old officers present, there were
L. B. Benson, Anna Larson, counselors;
Lucy Margetts, secretary. Sister Nellie
Parkinson coming from Hyrum, and there
were twenty sisters to show their love in
words of cheer, music and song, nice
refreshments were served. Sister Porter’s
hair is as black as it was twenty-nine years
ago; she is meek and humble as ever, and
is still praising her Heavenly Father. There
were five of the present Stake Board there,
to do honor to this veteran Saint.
	The parents of Sister Rachel Porter were
not in the Church, their names were Sally
M. Wilcott and Samuel Murray. Her maid-
en name was Rachel Ann Murray was born
in the town of Oceana, State of New York.
The first Relief Society in 1879 was or-
ganized in Preston, under direction of Bish-
op Nathan Porter, who was the first Bish-
op, and her husband; it then was called
the Worm Creek Branch. These are the
first officers: Rachel Porter, president;
Serena Jensen, first counselor; Annie Lund-
green, second counselor; Mary Heller, sec-
retary; Jennie Wilcott, treasurer. Sister
Porter presided for fourteen years.


[Column 1]
		WOMEN AND LABOR.
	GIVE US LABOR OR WE DIE!
	Such is the gist of the argument pre-
sented in Olive Schreiner’s book, “Women
and Labor,” just published by Frederick A.
Stokes Company, New York—a picture of
the past and present conditions of women
which, for eloquence, even passion, united
with pure scientific reasoning, is to other lit-
erature on the subject what this author’s
memorable novel, “The Story of an African
Farm,” was to the best fiction of its day.
	The excerpts from Miss Schreiner’s book
printed on this page, forcible as they are,
give only a hint of the power and authority
of the whole book. And yet this volume—
as Miss Schreiner tells in her introduction,
is hardly more than a synopsis of the bulky
manuscript volumes, representing her seri-
ous life-work, which were destroyed by van-
dals of the Boer War of which her South
African home was a storm center. Was ever
a thoughtful volume prepared under greater
disadvantages than she here describes?
	“I was living in a little house on the out-
skirts of the village, in a single room, with
a stretcher and two packing cases as furni-
ture, and with only my little dog for com-
pany. Thirty-six armed African natives
were set to guard night and day at the doors
and windows of the house; and I was only
allowed to go out during certain hours in
the middle of the day to fetch water from
the fountain in the middle of the village, or
to buy what I needed. I was allowed to re-
ceive no newspapers or magazines. * * *
	‘I was neither allowed to light a candle
nor strike a match. When a conflict was
fought near by, the dying and wounded

[Column 2]
were brought in; three men belonging to
our little village were led out to execution;
death sentences were read in our little mar-
ket-place; our prison was filled with our
fellow countrymen, and we did not know
from hour to hour what the next would
bring to us.
	“Under these conditions I felt it necessary
I should resolutely force my thought at
times from the horror of the world around
me, to dwell on some abstract question and
it was under these circumstances that this
little book was written.”
	The “little book,” however, is a volume of
three hundred pages—every one of which
deserves the closest attention of the reader.
No attempt is made to connect the passages
here given—each completes its own power-
ful argument.
	In that clamor which has arisen in the
modern world, where now this, and then
that, is demanded for and by large bodies of
modern women, he who listens carefully
may detect as a keynote, beneath all the
clamor, a demand which may be embodied
in such a cry as this:
	“Give us labor and the training which fits
for labor. We demand this, not for our-
selves alone, but for the race.”
	If this demand be logically expanded, it
will take such form as this: Give us labor!
for countless ages, for thousands, millions
it may be, we have labored. When first
man wandered, the naked, newly erected
savage, and hunted and fought, we wan-
dered with him: each step of his was ours.
Within our bodies we bore the race, on our
shoulders we carried it; we sought the
roots and plants for its food; and, when
man’s barbed arrow or hook brought the
game, our hands dressed it. Side by side,
the savage man and the savage woman, we
wandered free together and labored free to-
gether. And we were contented!
	Then a change came.
	We ceased from our wanderings, and,
camping upon one spot of earth, again the
labors of life were divided between us.
While man went forth to hunt, or to battle
with the foe who would have dispossessed
us of all, we labored on the land. We hoed
the earth, we reaped the grain, we shaped
the dwellings, we wove the clothing, we
modeled the earthen vessels and drew the
lines upon them, which were humanity’s
first attempt at domestic art; we studied the
properties and uses of plants, and our old
women were the first physicians of the race,
as often, its first priests and prophets.
	We fed the race at our breast, we bore it
on our shoulders; through us it was shaped,
fed, and clothed. Labor more toilsome and
unending than that of man was ours; yet
did we never cry out that it was too heavy
for us. While savage man lay in the sun-
shine on his skins, resting, that he might be
fitted for war or the chase, or while he
shaped his weapons of death, he ate and
drank that which our hands had provided
for him; and while we knelt over our grind-
stone, or hoed in the fields, with one child
in our womb, perhaps, and one on our back,
toiling till the young body was old before its
time—did we ever cry out that the labor
allotted to us was too hard for us?
	Did we not know that the woman who
threw down her burden was as a man who
cast away his shield in battle—a coward and
a traitor to his race? Man fought—that was
his work; we fed and nurtured the race—
that was ours. We knew that upon our la-


[Column 1]
bors, even as upon man’s, depended the life
and well-being of the people whom we bore.
We endured our toil, as man bore his
wounds, silently; and we were content.
	A thousand years ago, had one gone to
some great dame, questioning her why she
did not go out a-hunting or a,fighting, or
enter the great hall to dispense justice and
confer upon the making of laws, she would
have answered:
	“Am I a fool that you put to me such
questions? Have I not a hundred maidens
to keep at work at spinning-wheels and
needles? With my own hands daily do I
not dispense bread to over a hundred folk?
In the great hall go and see the tapestries
I with my maidens have created by the la-
bors of years, and which we shall labor over
for twenty more, that my children’s children
may see recorded the great deeds of their
forefathers.  In my storeroom are there not
salves and simples, that my own hands have
prepared for the healing of my household
and the sick in the country round? Ill would
it go indeed, if when the folk came home
from war and the chase of wild beasts,
weary or wounded, they found all the wom-
enfolk gone out a-hunting and a-fighting,
and none there to dresstheir wounds, or pre-
pare their meat, or guide and rule the house-
hold!”
			*	*	*
	The commandment to the modern [---]
is now not simply “Thou shalt bear,” but
rather, “Thou shalt not bear in excess of
thy power to rear and train satisfactorily;”
and the woman who should today appear at
the door of a workhouse or the tribunal
of the poor-law guardians followed by her
twelve infants, demanding honorable sus-
tenance for them and herself in return for
the labor she had undergone in producing
them, would meet with but short shrift.
	And the modern man, who on his wed-
ding day should be greeted with the ancient
good wish, that he might become the father
of twenty sons and twenty daughters, would
regard it as a malediction rather than a
blessing. It is certain that the time is now
rapidly approaching when child-bearing will
be regarded rather as a lofty privilege, per-
missible only to those who have shown their
power rightly to train and provide for their
offspring, than a labor which in itself, and
under whatever conditions performed, is
beneficial to society.
			*	*	*
	Our spinning wheels are all broken; in a
thousand huge buildings steam-driven looms
guided by a few hundred thousand hands
(often those of men), produce the clothings
of half the world; and we dare no longer
say, proudly, as of old, that we and we alone
clothe our peoples.
	Our hoes and our grindstones passed
from us long ago, when the plowman and
the miller took our place, but for a time we
kept fast possession of the kneading trough
and the brewing vat. Today, steam often
shapes our bread, and the loaves are set
down at our very door—it may be by a man-
driven motor car! The history of our
household drinks, we know no longer; we
merely see them set before us at our tables.
	Day by day machine-prepared and fac-
tory-produced viands take a larger and larg-
er place in the dietary of rich and poor, till
the working man’s wife places before her
household little that is of her own prepara-
tion; while among the wealthier classes, so
far has domestic change gone that men are

[Column 2]
not infrequently found laboring in our
houses and kitchens, and even standing be-
hind our chairs ready to do all but actually
place the morsels of food between our fem-
inine lips. The army of rosy milkmaids has
passed away forever, to give place to the
cream-separater and the (largely) male and
machinery manipulated butter pat. In every
direction the ancient saw, that it was ex-
clusively the womans’ sphere to prepare
viands of her household, has become, in
proportion as civilization has perfected it-
self, an antiquated lie.
			*	*	*
	It is possible that not one woman in ten
thousand has grasped with scientific exact-
itude, and still less could express with ver-
bal sharpness, the great central conditions
which yet compel and animate her into ac-
tion.
	If the parasite woman on her couch,
loaded with gew-gaws, the plaything and
amusement of man, be the permanent and
final manifestation of female human life on
the globe, then that couch, is also the death-
bed of human evolution.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SKETCH OF JULIA P. LINDSAY.
		(Continued from page 47.)
	Our next thought was to prepare for the
winter and at the same time find out what
would be the surest way to make means to
go to the Valley. The family all felt united
in trying to get ready. My husband made 
himself a wagon and they bought cattle and
did not know who did this but in the fall
of forty-seven we moved to the mines and
on the fourth day of May our first child,
a daughter, was born to us. The cold win-
ter was over and the men went to work in
the mines. After a few weeks of hard labor
they struck a heavy vein of lead ore which
proved to be very rich. With this we ex-
pected to be able to start the following 
spring for the Valley. The cattle and hay
enough for their winter’s feed were pur-
chased and hay stacked on the river bottoms,
but some one went and set fire to it. We
did not know who did this but in a few 
days a man came and wanted to buy the cat-
tle. We did not sell them but bought corn
and more hay and fed them until the spring
of forty-eight. We started on our journey 
to the Valleys of the Mountains all the fam-
ily going together. We came as far as 
Iowa and after crossing the Des Moines riv-
er we camped about two miles this side of
the river opposite the town of Edeville.
Here we were detained by sickness. One 
of our number, a sister of my husband, was 
sick of a fever, but we were compelled to 
prepare for the winter. There was plenty of
work to be had and everything was cheap,
so that we got along very well. In the 
spring of forty-nine we started again on
our journey and in about four weeks we
arrived at Council Bluffs. On the ninth of 
September, 1849, our second daughter was
born. We stayed here until 1852, when we
started for Utah. Our third daughter was 
born while at Council Bluffs on March 5,
1852. We remained here until May, 1852,
when we started for Utah. It was quite an
undertaking for me to begin such a journey
with three small children, the baby only 
three months old. I felt very anxious to get
back where the Saints were located so that I
was quite willing to go. We started in

[Column 2]
May and after a long journey we arrived
in Utah, in Salt Lake, in October, just be-
fore conference.
	Soon after my second daughter was born
my husband began to think of taking anoth-
er wife. I believed in the principle of plural 
marriage and felt that it would not be right
for me to oppose my husband’s wish, as I 
knew he was very kind to me, and I had
faith that the principle had been revealed 
from on high. I asked myself the question,
am I prepared to embrace that principle and
shall I be able to lay aside many of my ten-
der feelings and many of my faults. I felt
that without the help of some higher power
I never could but I knew it would be wrong
to oppose it, so I at last consented, and
about August 12, 1849, my husband was
married to Pamelia Blackburn. There was
a great deal to do but we got along very
well in our home. At this time sickness
broke out in the company and many died 
of cholera. My baby was taken seriously
sick but was held by the faith and adminis-
tration of the Priesthood.
	Shortly after we arrived in the valley
we moved to Centerville where we re-
mained until the spring of fifty-three and
my husband went to Kaysward, Davis
County, where he took up some land
and that summer raised a good crop
of wheat and other things for our
sustenance. In the fall the scarlet fever
broke out, my sister-in-law took it and died
the fourth day after taking sick. Shortly 
after her death my eldest daughter took the
fever and after lingering four weeks and
suffering untold agony she passed away to
the spirit world. Three days after her death
my baby who had been ill for sometime, 
grew worse and died. This left me with but
one child. Every one was afraid to come 
near on account of the disease, and had it
not been for an emigrant lady who was
camped close by, I should have had to lay
out my own sweet children. Through this 
great sorrow it seemed that God sustained
and helped me to bear it.
	We had plenty of work, in those days
we were obliged to make our own dresses 
and in fact everything we needed. Thus we
labored and raised our families together
and taught our children to love each other.
As our families grew larger we thought it
best for each family to have a home. We 
had lived together fifteen years, ten years
of that time my husband’s third wife lived
with us. We separated to our different 
homes with the best of feelings for each oth-
er. About this time many of the Saints were
called to settle Bear Lake, and as we had
large families we thought it best to go
where we could get more land so we de-
cided to go to Bear Lake. We passed
through many hardships and privations that
a new country is heir to. In the fall of sixty-
nine twelve of our family came down with
typhoid fever. There were no doctors near
at that time so we had to do the best we
could. Sister Emeline Rich was very kind
and did all in her power to help us, but two
of our children, after great suffering, were
taken by the hand of death. One being a 
lovely child, a son sixteen years of age of
the second wife and the other a son, aged
ten years, of mine; both died within twen-
ty-four hours of each other. For three
months our house was like a hospital and
for many weeks we did not know how it
would be with us. Sometime previous to
this the Relief Society was organized and


[Column 1]
I was chosen to preside. The Relief Society
of Paris, Bear Lake Stake, Idaho, was or-
ganized by Apostle Charles C. Rich, May
29, 1868, with Sister E. Davis as president,
and Sisters Maria Rich and Eliza A. Rich
as her counselors. Sister Davis soon moved
to Ogden and Sister Maria Rich was ap-
pointed to fill her place. Sister Julia P.
Lindsay and Sister Caroline Kimball as 
counselors. The Society was reorganized
February 1, 1872 with Julia P. Lindsay as
President and Sisters Caroline Kimball and
Elizabeth Codings as counselors. Two wards
were soon in 1878 created in Paris and a Re-
lief Society organized in each. Julia P.
Lindsay was chosen stake president of Re-
lief Society in February, 1879, set apart
for this labor by Apostle Charles C. Rich,
James Hart and Geo. Osmond. Sisters
Elizabeth Collings and Maria Rich were set
apart as counselors to President Julia P.
Lindsay. After Sister Maria Rich moved
away Sister Lizzie Hart was chosen to fill
her place. After the death of Sister Col-
lings in June 14, 1898, Sister Lizzie Hart
was chosen and set apart as first counselor,
and Sister Mary Bagley, second counselor.
Sister Lizzie Hart was taken accidently
from this life in January, 1894, then Sister
Mary Bagley was sustained and set apart
as first counselor and Sister Amelia Hoge
as second counselor, and sister Nora Austin
as assistant in Sister Hoge’s place.
	Throughout all these years of stake labor
each Society has been visited once a year,
although many storms, bad roads and in-
conveniences of travel have been faced, but
through fortitude and great determination
the duties of these labors have b[-]en accom-
plished and great blessings realized. The
sisters in the presidency have labored in
love and unity, each giving the other sup-
port and encouragement. During the trials
of parting with the counselors when death
has claimed them, Julia Lindsay has become
reconciled, feeling that it was the hand of
God and that they had been faithful in their
duties and that God would provide help for
her, this He did. It seemed strange that
Julia Lindsay, the president, is still pre-
served and able to fill these duties when oth-
er younger help has been taken away. It
seems the hand of God is sustaining her in
this work. Even as late as August 20, 1907
she has been privileged to take charge of
the Relief Society conference of this stake,
in great strength of spirit and clearness of
mind. Trusting in God always for guid-
ance, help, and wisdom has enabled Julia
Lindsay to fulfill so faithfully all her duties
as president. She was called to part with
her companion who had been a devoted hus-
band, January 3, 1889. This great trial she
bore patiently and wisely as any noble spirit
does. She has gone on as faithfully as be-
fore and been greatly blessed of God in her
widowhood. When clouds of doubt and dis-
couragement darkened her path she would
seek aid from on high and receive support
and strength to go on and keep up spirit.
	Julia P. Lindsay has been the mother
of eight children. This speaks volumes
for her. Though she, as you will see
by the past record, has had to lay
away little ones in death, she has raised
five to man and womanhood and carried on
her labors as well in the stake. At this writ-
ing, August, 1907, her grandchildren num-
ber fifty-four, great grand children eighteen,
and great great grand children twelve, in all
seventy-four.

[Column 2]
	With such a record none need fear the fu-
ture, great indeed must be the reward of
such a mother, grand mother, great grand
mother, and great great grand mother, with
such a life of faithful church work and
nobility, and integrity of heart sustained to
such an age as her’s.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	The Granite Stake Relief Society Con-
ference was held at the Stake Tabernacle,
May 16. In the forenoon a spirited testi-
mony meeting was held. The afternoon
session an eloquent address on the Care of
the Erring and Wayward of the Youth of
Zion was given by Doctor Jane W. Skol-
field. President Frank Y. Taylor also spoke
on the same subject.
	A resolution, pledging our support to
temperance and the prohibition movement
was read by Sister Lucy M. Green, and
was unanimously adopted.
	The Stake Relief Society choir rendered
several choice selections, and a solo was
sung by Sister Lottie Clissold, and a piano
duett by Sisters Walker and Coray, was
much enjoyed. Closed by singing, “God be
with you till we meet again.”
	Benediction by Patriarch Harrison Sper-
ry.
				LUCY M. GREEN,
						Assistant Secy.


IN MEMORIAM.
			Mary H. Farrar.
	At Beaver, March 27, Mrs. Mary Hayward
Farrer died, after a short illness. She was
born at Derwent, Derbyshire, England,
March 17, 1822, and was the daughter of Jo-
seph Hayward, and Mary Bridge Hayward;
was married to Jonathan Pearson in 1842, and
was the mother of six children, all being dead
except one son, William, who is a resident of
this city. She was baptized on Nov. 6, 1848,
and crossed the plains in John R. Murdock’s
company in 1862, coming to Beaver, where she
has lived until now. She entered into mar-
riage with James Farrer, Dec. 7, 1867, and as
long as her physical condition permitted she
took part in the religious affairs of the com-
munity, being a prominent aid in Relief Soci-
ety work.
	The funeral services were held on Thursday,
March 30.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our heavenly Father, in His wis-
dom, has taken from our midst our aged and
beloved sister and co-laborer, we wish to
emulate her virtues and noble qualities; there-
fore, be it
	Resolved, that the wisdom and ability and
labors of our beloved sister be held in grateful
remembrance. Also resolved that a copy of
these resolutions be copied in our record of
Beaver West Ward Relief Society, and one
given to the bereaved son, William Pearson,
Beaver, Utah, and one to the Woman’s Ex-
ponent for publication.
				Betsy S. Goodwin,
				Ellen M. Skinner,
				Francis L. Jones,
							Committee.


SONS OF REVOLUTION CHEER
			WOMEN.
	Miss Laura Clay has been attending the
meeting of the State Federation of Wom-
en’s Clubs at Louisville, Ky. She writes
from that city recently:
	“An interesting suffrage incident took
place last night in the Federation. The
Sons of the American Revolution are in


Louisville in session at the same time we
are. Last night they sent a message of
greeting to us. This was read aloud, and
Mrs. Desha Breckinridge moved that we
send a return message of greeting, and say
that the Federation of Kentucky Club Wom-
en stood for the same principles that their
forefathers and ours defended; that taxa-
tion without representation is tyranny. Mrs.
James A. Leech, the president, put the mo-
tion to vote, saying every member of the
Federation was privileged to vote. Of the
large audience of club women apparently
every woman rose, and amid great enthu-
siasm Mrs. Leech appointed Mrs. Desha
Breckinridge chairman of a committee to
go at once to the meeting of the Sons and
deliver the message.
	“The committee was cordially received,
and called to the platform. Mrs. Breckin-
ridge was introduced as the great grand-
daughter of Henry Clay, and made a witty
and telling little suffrage speech, which was
applauded with cheers.”—Ex.


NURSE CLASS AND OBSTETRICS.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s School in Nursing
and Obstetrics closed the winter session on
Friday, the 31st inst. The next term will
begin on Monday, Oct. 9th, 1911, at her res-
dence, 713 Second Ave.,
	After many months of theoretical and
practical instruction, these ladies have
passed a most successful examination and
have now gone to their various fields of use-
fulness hoping to dispense health and hap-
piness to those requiring skillful and effi-
cient service.
	The importance of such knowledge can
scarcely be over-estimated, educational to
the wife and mother— to the daughter, as
well as to those wishing to make a pro-
fessional career.

To minister with tender care
	To sick and suffering;
To mitigate the pangs they bear
	Will greatest blessings bring.
Exemplify the love of One
	Who lived alone to bless,
Who “healed the sick” and walked the path
	Of lowly righteousness.
							E. R. S.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The University of Rochester, New York,
celebrated Susan B. Anthony’s birthday,
Feb. 15, a suffrage luncheon was served and
College Woman’s Suffrage Club held a
birthday party in remembrance of her ef-
forts to have the college opened for girls in
which she was successful.

	It is quite well understood now that Miss
Johnston, the celebrated novelist, has be-
come an ardent suffragist. Her article on
Woman’s Suffrage in the Atlantic Monthly
last year attracted much attention. The
Woman’s Journal of Boston quotes her as
saying: “Last year I paid to the city and
the state considerably over $1,000 in taxes.
I earned every penny of that money. I was
people and citizens when it came to the tax-
collector’s day, but I was neither people nor
citizens when it came to deciding between
stationary accounts on Board Street, or
school houses that could seat the children.

