Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1910.					No. 2.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Florence Nightingale.........................E. B. W.	9
Lawn Party and Banquet..........Marie Francis	11
Missionary Experiences (Continued).............	11
Sketch of the Life of Eunice Billings Snow...	13
Universal Municipal Suffrage for Women in
	Norway..................................Emily Hill	15
A Great Demonstration...................................	15
A Tribute.........................................J. P. M. F.	14
Obituary..........................................................	15
Notes and News..............................................	16
Relief Society Stake Reports: Ogden.............	13
	Out-door Meetings.................................	13
Editorial:—President Bathsheba W. Smith....	12
	Are the Watchmen on the Towers...........	12
	Visit Abroad............................................	15
	A Favorite Songstress.............................	16
	Editorial Notes........................................	12
Poetry:—The Comforter..........Ellis R. Shipp	9


THE COMFORTER.
There’s a whispering voice that awakens
	The tenderest notes of my heart,
When I think of my friends who are weeping,
	I fain would sweet solace lmpart.

But I realize now as I linger,
	How impotent, feeble and weak
Is the tongue, or the pen of a mortal,
	These desires to write or to speak.

There’s One, and but One who can soothe us,
	Can still these deep throbbings of pain,
He who lovingly loaned us His jewels,
	And expects them returned once again.

He sent them to brighten our pathway,
	As proof of His tenderest love,
He takes them again in His wisdom,
	Perhaps to allure us above.

Now in the deep silence of night-tide,
	My spirit seems wafted away,
And there comes in the path of my vision
	The dawn of a holier day.

When again we shall meet our beloved,
	Renewing life’s sanctified ties;
Uniting and binding forever
	By powers immortal and wise.

God gives as beneficent token
	His love and continuous care;
He knows all our thoughts though unspoken,
	He hears each unuttered prayer.

Ah! now with my senses attuning
	To heaven’s englorified song,
crave in my fervent communing
	God’s blessing of hope to prolong.

All souls to respond to the music—
	Sweet echoes of peace from above,
Pure faith in eternal reunion,
	Through divine and ne’er-failing love.	
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
		FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE.
	This very remarkable woman whose name
appears above, died at her home in London,
August 13, 1910; and although she had lived
to a very great age, her death was rather un-
expected. The dispatches give meagre ac-
counts, but no doubt much will hereafter be
written of her brilliant career in the profes-
sion of nursing.
	Florence Nightingale was born in Flor-
ence, Italy, May 12, 1820, the records say,
yet years ago it was said she was the same

[Column 2]
age as Queen Victoria, who was born in
May, 1819. Her historian says “she was
one of the fortunate of the earth, inheriting
from nature a striking and beautiful talent,
and able to cultivate it under circumstances
the most favorable that could be imagined,
and to exercise it on the grandest scale in
the sight of all mankind.”
	Of her family the facts are not generally
known. “Her father was an English gen-
tleman of an ancient and wealthy Sheffield
family, by name William Edward Shore
her mother a daughter of William Smith
who was for many years a member of Par
liament, where he was particularly distin
guished for his advocacy of the emancipa
tion of the slaves in the British possessions
	“In 1815, her father inherited the estates
of his grand-uncle, Peter Nightingale, on
the conditions expressed in his uncle’s will,
of his assuming the name of Nightingale.”
	The father of Florence, an intelligent man,
guided her studies in the usual branches
and accomplishments of female education,
and she was taught French, German and
Italian, and attained proficiency in the
Latin language and mathematics; she also
became “a respectable performer on the
piano,” and had a general knowledge of
science and an interest in subjects of art,
which is common with girls of intelligent
minds.
	It was noticeable of her as a little girl
that she had the instincts of a true nurse,
and the sympathy that enables one to know
beforehand what is wanted to alleviate pain
and distress.
	It is customary with young ladies of the
English nobility to visit the cottages on the
estate and minister to the wants of the poor,
the infirm, the sick and distressed; and in
this way Miss Nightingale began voluntary
work of mitigating human anguish; but she
was not content with the usual routine, she
visited hospitals in the vicinity and studied
eagerly whatever she could find in their own
library, relating to the treatment of disease
and management of asylums.
	It is an established custom in England
for wealthy people to spend a part of the
year in London. Miss Nightingale took ad-
vantage of her opportunities to visit num-
berless hospitals and asylums of the metrop-
olis—institutions on the grandest scale and
liberally endowed; but many of them a-
bounded in abuses and defects that became
apparent to her; she saw the need of better
nurses, women trained and educated to their
work; there were plenty of admirable and
skillful surgeons frustrated in their work by
the ignorance and obstinate conceit of
nurses; little was it imagined at that time,
that through this young lady the reform of
these institutions was to come about.
	It has been said of Miss Nightingale that
she created the art of nursing of which she
became so proficient a teacher and really a
master of the profession.
	It is said of Miss Nightingale that al-
though she was not strictly beautiful she
was singularly pleasing in expression, and a
slight trim and graceful figure; she enjoyed
society and was much sought after by friends
and acquaintances, but she loved her home

[Column 3]
best of all; and the family connections of
the Nightingales were numerous.
	In 1845 with her parents and sister Pen-
elope, she traveled through Germany, France
and Italy, visiting everywhere hospitals,
infirmaries and asylums and watching close-
ly the modes of treatment practiced. The
family went on into Egypt, where they re-
sided for a considerable time, and where
the gifts of Miss Nightingale were called in-
to requisition for the first time, outside her
own family and dependents, among the sick
Arabs. They extended their journey to the
fartherest cataracts of the Nile. This journey
was of immense value to Miss Nightingale,
it increased her familiarity with languages,
and gave her a knowledge of the world and
of people as well as of her art, all this she
turned to good account.
	While traveling on the continent of Europe
she often met Sisters of Charity and mem-
bers of other Catholic orders serving in hos-
pitals and asylums with fidelity, constancy
and skill; and she looked upon them with
admiration and profound respect. It had
been a dream of her youth that perhaps
sometime there might be a Protestant order
of nurses, a band of holy women devoted to
alleviating the anguish of the sick, and suf-
fering.
	About 1848, Miss Nightingale heard of
something of the kind in Germany. She en-
tered this school of purses and spent six
months acquiring valuable details of the
art; and in the hospital attached to it she
served as one of the regular corps of nurses.
After returning from Germany she was
sought by friends of an asylum in London
which was on the point of failure, owing to
its improper management, to accept the
post of superintendent; and she left her
beautiful home to go and take charge of the
establishment in London; and gave to the
institution her valuable services and a large
part of her income. She restored order to
the hospital, and increased the number of
its friends and improved its arrangements;
she ministered herself at the bedside of sick,
infirm or dying inmates of the institution;
her health gave way and she had to retire,
but she left the institution firmly established
and well regulated.
	But the great time for her talents was at
hand, her knowledge was to be employed on
a grand scale, her country was to reap the
result of her observation and efficiency.
	In February and March 1854—the war
with Russia was on and shiploads of troops
left England for the seat of war. It is said
by historians that there was never such bad
management, lack of foresight and of adapta-
tion of means to ends, want of knowledge of
the climate and of human constitution, in
sending 25,000 British troops to the Black
Sea. The first rendezvous was at Malta, in
easy reach of two continents, yet it was
there privation and trouble began, but when
the troops reached Gallapili, on the coast of
the sea of Marmora, the terrible sufferings
cannot be told: no interpreters, no carts nor
draught animals, no meat, and many of
them had no beds, and not a soldier in the
army had more than the one regulation
blanket; in the middle of April the men be-


[Column 1]
gan to suffer with cold, they did not undress
to lie down, but put on everything they had
and wrapped themselves in anything they
could find. There was a small supply of
blankets but no one authorized to serve
them out.
	It is heartrending, almost, even now, to
read the annals of the war. Every time
the army moved it seemed to get into worse
quarters. The camp at Aladyar, where the
army was posted at the end of June, is a
melancholy example of conditions. It was
ten miles from the sea in a country utterly
deserted, and the only communication was
by heavy carts drawn by buffaloes at the
rate of a mile and a half an hour and by
this kind of transportation 25,000 men and
13,000 horses had to be fed.
	In July the cholera broke out and carried
off officers and men of both armies in large
numbers. July 24, twenty men died in 24
hours. To give any idea of conditions is
most terrible.
	On the 13th of September, 1854, 27,000
British troops were landed on the shores of
the Crimea and marched six miles into the
country, and there was not a tree for shelter,
the French troops who landed on the same
day had shelter tents, but in all the English
host there was but one tent.
	At midnight the rain fell in torrents and
continued all night, penetrating blankets
and overcoats, it beat upon the aged gener-
als, the young dandies, and the private sol-
diers alike, they slept in puddles, ditches
and watercourses, without fire, without
grog or prospect of breakfast, the Duke of
Cambridge himself was no better accomo-
dated. This was the beginning of misery;
on the following day signals were made
from the admiral’s ship for all the vessels of
the great fleet to send the sick men on board
the “Kangaroo.” In the course of the day
the vessel was surrounded by hundreds of
boats filled with sick soldiers and sailors,
crowded to suffocation; before night fifteen
hundred sick were on board and the scene
was so horrible, the details were deemed
unfit for publication. After all the vessel
proved to be unseaworthy and all had to be
transported to other vessels, many deaths
occurred during removal; at the same time
men were dying on the beach without any
medical assistance whatever. When the
hospital was about to be established at
Balaklava, sick men were sent before the
slightest preparation was made, and many
remained in the open streets for hours in
the rain.
	Winter set in with a terrible hurricane,
the army were still in tents and no prepara-
tion had been made to protect the troops
against snow and cold and rain, the hurri-
cane broke upon them on the morning of
November 14, an hour before daylight, the
wind bringing with it torrents of rain, every-
thing was filled with water and every tent
laid prostrate by wind, horses, terrified,
broke loose, and the whole country was
covered with galloping horses. Towards
night a driving storm of snow and sleet set
in, tormenting the army, and this storm
was even more deadly on sea than on shore.
Many a ship stored with things for the army
of which they were in perishing need, went
to the bottom of the Black Sea.
	A letter by Dr. Russell, who was there
with the British army is too dreadful to
read; he uses these Emphatic words: “Never
was there such mismanagement, Balaklava
was a scene of filth and horror;” it is said
[---] letter all the pictures of plague and
pestilence ever drawn fall short of the scenes

[Column 2]
of disease and death which abounded there;
no attention was paid to cleanliness or de-
cency, men died without the least effort be-
ing made to help them. The appalling
sights and scenes baffle all description.
Some of Queen Victoria’s own “Household
Guards,” were going into action at night
without soles to their shoes. Many men
were frozen in their tents and the word hos-
pital only conjured up scenes of horror. It
was not surprising that on the 10th of Feb-
ruary, out of a total of 44,948 British troops
18,177 were in the hospital. When there
were stores there was much trouble over
requisitions, the iron-clad rules of the army;
a house full of needed things and no officer
to serve them out. It is said the surgeons
did their best, but the horror was the neg-
lect of the sick in the hospitals, and a cry
arose for a corps of skillful educated nurses.
	“There was but one woman in England
fitted by character, position and education
to head such a band.” Sidney Herbert, a
member of the British Cabinet, was an old
friend of Florence Nightingale’s father, there-
fore he was well acquainted with her fitness
and training; by a curious coincidence, Miss
Nightingale wrote to him offering her ser-
vices, and he wrote to her asking her aid on
the same day. Other ladies of birth and
fortune volunteered to accompany her and
some superior professional nurses were
added. October 24, 1854, Florence Night-
ingale, accompanied by a clerical friend
and his wife, and a corps of 37 nurses, left
England for the Crimea; they traveled via
France and sailed from Marsailles to Scutari
by steamer, where the principal hospitals
were and reached there November 3. The
town was crowded with misery in every
form; five unoccupied rooms which had been
reserved for officers of high rank were
assigned to the nurses, and at once they en-
tered upon duty; and they were none too
soon; in a few hours wounded men in great
numbers were brought in from Balaklava
and ere long thousands from the bloody
fields of Inkermann. Fortunately a com-
missioner was there to supply Miss Night-
ingale’s first demands. Some days elapsed
before men ceased to die for want of sup-
plies that were in the town, but could not be
obtained when required. One nurse report-
ed that the first night of her attendance
eleven men died before her eyes, whom a
little wine or arrowroot would certainly have
saved. Miss Nightingale saw it was no
time to stand for trifles; the second day
after she arrived six hundred wounded men
were brought in, and the number soon in-
creased to three thousand patients, under
her immediate charge. She was gentle and
tender and issued her orders with a calm-
ness that comes of knowledge of what is
best to be done. If red tape interposed she
quietly cut it. If there was no one to unlock
a storehouse she took a few Turks with her
and stood by while they broke it open. The
first week her labors were arduous beyond
what any one could believe possible; she was
known to stand for twenty hours directing
the work of men and women. However
fatigued she might be, her manner was al-
ways serene, and she had a smile or a com-
passionate word for the suffering as she
passed them.
	As soon as the first needs of the men were
attended to, she established a washing house
which she superintended herself, also a kitch-
en which she herself inspected, where hun-
dreds of gallons of beef tea and other liquid
foods were prepared daily; she knew precise-
ly how these things were done and the best

[Column 3]
apparatus for doing them; out of the rough
material around,, boards, camp kettles,
camp stoves and blundering Turks, she
created laundries and kitchens which an-
swered until better could be provided. She
understood the art of utilizing skillful labor.
When a few nurses could be spared she set
them to preparing surgical appliances for
amputated limbs, etc., so that when a thou-
sand wounded men were brought in, they no
longer sufferred or died for want of some
trifle that had not been got ready.
	“The ‘Times’ correspondent wrote of her,
‘she is a ministering angel in these hospitals
and as her slender form glides along each
corrider, every poor fellow’s face softens with
gratitude at the sight of her. When all the
medical officers have retired for the night,
and silence and darkness have settled down
upon those miles of prostrate sick, she may
be observed alone with a little lamp in her
hand making her solitary rounds.' ”
	The same writer says much more on this
subject from which we only quote a word or
two: “No one who has observed her fragile
figure and delicate health can avoid mis-
givings lest these should fail. With the
heart of a true woman and the manners of a
lady, accomplished and refined beyond most
of her sex, she combines a surprising calm-
ness of judgment and promptitude and de-
cision of character.”
	It seems incredible that these ladies were
far from being welcomed either by the med-
cal or military officers; it required all the
firmness and tact of a Florence Nightingale
to overcome the obstacles that were placed
in her way, and it was weeks before the hos-
pital authorities cordially co-operated with
her. Still more incredible that cruel bigots
in England severely criticised her for accept-
ing the services of Sisters of Charity from
Dublin. They discussed whether she her-
self was a Catholic or a Protestant, a witty
clergyman remarked: “She belongs to a sect
which is a very rare one—the sect of the
Good Samaritans.”
	One of the chaplains who labored with her
Rev. S. G. Osborne in his work on hospitals
in Scutari, describes in the most interesting
manner her appearance and character: “Her
nerve is wonderful, I have been with her at
very severe operations; she was more than
equal to the trial; she has an utter disregard
for contagion. I have known her spend
hours over men dying of cholera or fever.
The more awful any particular case, especial-
ly that of a dying man her slight form would
be seen bending over him, administering
in every way in her power and seldom quitt-
ing his side until death released him. What
wonder that the troops idolized her!
	One of the soldiers said: “She would
speak to one and to another and nod and
smile to as many more; but she c[-]uldn’t do
it to all you know, we lay there by hundreds
but we could kiss her shadow as it fell, and
lay our heads on the pillow with content.
Before she came there was cussin’ and
swearin' and after that it was as holy as a
church.”
	All through that winter she toiled on and
the spring until the middle of May. Then
she was taken down with the camp fever
and for a few days her condition was alarm-
ing, but she passed the crisis, and the whole
army rejoiced to hear that she was conval-
escent. In her little book published after
her return home there are but two allusions
to her services in the Crimea. One is that
she had seen death in more forms than any
other woman in Europe. The other refers
to flowers. “I have seen in fevers, (and


felt when I was a fever patient myself) the
most acute suffering produced from (a pa-
tient in a hut) not being able to see out of
a window, and the knots in the wood being
the only view. I shall never forget the rap-
ture of fever patients over a bunch of bright-
colored flowers. I remember (in my own
case) a nosegay of wild flowers being sent
me and from that moment recovery becom-
ing more rapid."
	Miss Nightingale remained in the Crimea
a year and ten [-]onths; when she was re-
covering a yacht was lent her. Its use aided
much in her recovery, when she first sailed
in it she had to be carried to the vessel in
the arms of men.
	She reached home in safety on the 8th of
September, 1856, an invalid for life. All
England f[-]lt ihat something must be done.
Fifty thousand pounds were raised almost
without an effort, and it was decided to use
this fund in enabling Miss Nightingale to
establish an institution for the training of
nurses, The Nightingale home at St. Thomas.
She accepted the trust and for years em-
ployed much effort in the establishment.
	The Sultan of Turkey sent her a magnifi-
cent bracelet, the Queen of England gave
her a cross beautifully formed and blazing
with gems; the Queen invited her to visit
her in her retreat at Balmoral, and Miss
Nightingale spent some days there receiving
the homage of the royal family.
	Her books on nursing are said to be ad-
mirably simple and admirably wise. The
chief duty of a nurse” she says, “is to keep
the air which the patient breathes as pure as
the external air but without chilling,” and
she dwells forcibly upon the “curative
power of perfect cleanliness and bright
light.”
	When Florence Nightingale overcame the
silent opposition of ancient surgeon[-] and
obstinate old sergeants in the Crimea, she
smoothed the path of American women on
the banks of the Potomac and the Mississ-
ippi.
	Her name and fame stand out as heroic
examples to all women and are imperishably
engraved in the annals of her time. There
can be no correct conception of her persona[-]
life from anything that has been written or
published. It may be now that she has
passed away that memoirs or reminiscences
may be given of the woman who has been a
greater philanthropist and humanitarian
than any woman we know of living or dead.
	In the year 1908 she was accorded the
freedom of the city of London and King Ed-
ward with great pomp and ceremony be-
stowed upon her the “Order of Merit,” the
most exclusive distinction in the gift of the
British Sovereign. No doubt Florence
Nightingale was quite as deserving of this
high honor as any man who had ever received
such an honor.
	Peace to her ashes, the memory of her
beautiful life of sacrifice and devotion will
remain forever sacred in the hearts of all her
sex who appreciate deeds of valor and of
self-sacrifice. E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LAWN PARTY AND BANQUET.
	A most entertaining and enjoyable even-
ing was given by Mrs. Emma H. Jenson
at the home, 154 North 2nd West Street,
on Thursday, July 7th, in honor of Mrs.
Romania B. Penrose, with whom Mr. and
Mrs. Jenson and their daughter Eva traveled
in Europe in company with President A. H.
Lund and wife and daughter Eva, and to
celebrate the arrival of the hostesses in Salt


Lake City twenty-five years ago. Their
luxurious home was most artistically ar-
ranged and decorated with palms, sweet
peas and carnations. Their beautiful lawn
was a source of great enjoyment owing to its
shade and wealth of foliage. An elaborate
dinner was served, covers being laid for
fifty guests. The ornamentations were ex-
ceedingly pretty and delicate. A special
feature of the decoration being a silver cen-
ter piece recently received from Mr. Andrew
Jensen, being a presentation to him by the
L.D. S. choir of Copenhagen, Denmark,
where he is presiding over the Scandinavian
Mission, as a token of love and respect for
all his kindness and zeal. During the re-
past Miss Bessie Smith, accompanied by
Miss Eva H. Jenson, sang several songs in
her pathetic and graceful manner. During
the evening several vocal numbers were
rendered by Mr. Amer Hansen, Mrs. C. V.
Anderson and the inimitable George B.
Margetts. Mrs. E. J. D. Roundy made an
eulogistic tribute to the hospitality and
kindness of the hostesses. All regretted
when the hour of separation arrived and
were unanimous in their expressions of
pleasure at the enjoyable time they had
passed and looked forward to another simi-
lar occasion,and desired that the same com-
pany might be privileged to meet again. 
				MARIA FRANCIS.


[Column 1]
	MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
			(Continued.)
	During the ride to Euston, visions of my
first field of labor vividly rise to mind.
It is nearly a year since then, and I am be-
coming accustomed to my new life, but my
lone ride to my first field of labor, through
forty miles of the county of Kent, the garden
spot of England, will never be forgotten. As
I was about to enter a bus at the “Angel”
for Sittingbourne where I had been assigned,
met one of the sisters who had come over
with us to the Quinquennial Congress lately
closed in London, who was now leaving for
Liverpool en route home. “Are you going
to remain in England a winter?” she asked.
“I shall certainly try hard,” I replied. “I
think you are a fool,” she said. “Think of
what an English winter is, and of your state
of health! You have a good home and sons
and daughters in Zion, come and return
home with us. Why do you not return with
us?” “Because I am sent on a mission and
am going to try my best to fulfill it.”
	Though I felt determined, the sister’s
words cast a little cloud on my spirits.
While waiting at the station for the train, I
looked over some of the papers just received
from home, and read of the death of one of
the members of my theological class in the
Sunday school. “It makes no difference
where we are, I thought now she was home
surrounded by loved ones, yet she had to
go.”
	It is a delightful ride, passing villages,
orchards heavy with fruit, and the roads
and green lanes of England. But the far-
ther I got away from London the worse I
felt, until at length I thought I must turn
the train around and go back, actually ris-
ing to my feet to do it. A voice was speak-
ing to me, you are a fool,” it said, “to un-
dertake this mission. Go home to your
loved ones, you might die here, far away
from them all and they would never forgive
you.” Then I recognized it, I had heard it
before. To my mind came a statement,
made by one of our Apostles just before I

[Column 2]
left Utah. When he arose in the Taber-
nacle on that Sunday to speak. He said a
voice said to him, “Sit down, you know you
cannot say anything of account, you made a
fool of yourself the last time you tried. Sit
down!” He did not sit down but I did,
saying, “I will stay!”
	Now that I had overcome the tempter, I
felt happy, though still wondering who
would meet me and how my letter of ap-
pointment which I held with the address of
the Elders, would be received. The lodg-
ings of the Elders, I found, was not far
away from the station. The loud knock
made by the proverbial iron knocker of Eng-
land was answered by the landlady, who in-
formed Elder Sherwood that some one wished
to see him. When his face, illuminated
with a smile of welcome, appeared at the
head of the stairs, all my misgivings were
dispelled, and I felt happy.
	It was a new life for me, who had always
been used to my own home, where I reigned
as queen over my lovers, my ten children.
I was away from all of them now, and my
widow’s dress reminded me of my condi-
tion. I secured lodgings in a Catholic
home, and when I returned from my day’s
tracting and closed the door of my room, I
was alone. It was a great change, but a
needed one. It was a good cure for nerv-
ous prostration, which had followed my
latest ordeal. I loved the work, and health
slowly returned, despite some untoward con-
ditions I had to meet in the world. The
Elders taught me how to tract; took me
with them to the street meetings, where I
felt I could not speak, and encouraged me,
until, like a little child, I could walk alone.
My daily experiences were always new, often
inspiring, and the love of the Saints and
friends among whom I labored, were precious
to me.
	Home papers and letters came regularly,
and always proved a blessing. So the first
winter passed away.
	One day a young girl whose parents lived
in the same row as one of the Saints, sent
for us to come and administer to her. She
was home on a visit, but was very ill. Lying
there on a little cot the hectic glow on her
cheek, a hacking cough and rapid respira-
tion made her look shockingly ill. It seemed
to be an advanced stage of tuberculosis.
“Pray, sister,” the brother said, and we all
knelt beside her. The spirit of prayer came
upon me and a happiness unspeakable filled
the room after the administration. When I
called next day, behold she was well! and
spoke of going back immediately to her post
of duty. Being urged to rest a little while
she decided to return in two days, which she
did. This marveious case of healing was
the first I had witnessed in the missionary
field. Her parents knew of the Gospel and
spoke well of it to those belonging to the
Church, but did not speak that way to those
not of us, though not speaking ill. The
mother, it is said, stated that “she believed
it was true but could not live it.” Her
younger daughter came often to our meet-
ings with one of the Saints’ little girls.
They were grateful recipients of a wonderful
blessing, yet they never identified them-
selves with the Church. Just before return-
ing home the mother wrote me a letter
wishing me God speed to my loved ones,
and in fervent language acknowledging the
healing of her daughter, and said that the
Gospel was true. About two years after-
wards the daughter married. Sometime af-
ter the birth of her babe she was seized as
before and died.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	AUGUST, 1910.


PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
	We are sure the members of the Relief
Society in all the stakes of Zion and through-
out the Church are interested in the beloved
President, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, who
has for so many years been a pillar in Zion,
not only in the Relief Society from its very
inception, but in the temple work from the
early days; and has officiated regularly in
the Salt Lake Temple from its opening in
May, 1893, almost without losing a day.
No woman in the Church has such a record
in temple work; her faithfulness and fidelity
in the callings, whereunto she has been
called and set apart are unquestionable.
	We regret very much that at the present
time she is seriously ill, possibly many of
the brethren and sisters are aware of her
condition, but as far as we know the fact
has not been spoken of in the public press;
but it seems only right t[-]at the Sisters
should know that she is not able to fill the
position in the temple that it has been such
a great pleasure and satisfaction for her to
occupy.
	Certainly those who minister there will
miss seeing her in the accustomed place,
but at present she is not strong enough, and
must be kept quiet and rest until her health
and strength are restored. The summer has
been trying and it would not be expected
she could recuperate much until it is cool-
er weather.
	She has been most tenderly cared for by
her daughter, who for six weeks was with
her day and night, until she was obliged to
take a rest. Her grand-daughters wait upon
her in the most careful and thoughtful way
and spare no pains to give her sympathy
and attention in the fullest measure possible.
More could not be done than the nursing
she is receiving. For the most of us, who
love her so dearly, and would gladly wait
upon her, we can only pray that all will be
well, and we have the confident assurance
that she has every need and longing antici-
pated and supplied without an effort on her
part. She is watched over day and night,
and all that love and tender nursing can do
is being done in the wisest and tenderest
way, and her sisters and friends may rest
satisfied that everything possible for her
comfort and happiness is assured.
	President John Henry Smith visits her al-
most daily and this is very gratifying to her,
and to all her friends.


[Column 1]
ARE THE WATCHMEN ON THE TOWERS?
	The world is rushing on rapidly in many
ways—progression seems to be the greatest
aim of the people of this wonderful age;
assuredly this is significant of a laudable
ambition to excel and to make many im-
provements in this line of endeavor and
there must necessarily be inventions and
discoveries in the earth and on the earth
until one might say, “knowledge will cover
the earth as the waters cover the mighty
deep;” but unless there is wisdom and faith
in God the greatest and highest of all at-
tainments in that which tends to growth
and advancement in intelligence, science
and philosophy of things seen and unseen,
in wielding power and developing skill and
in the application of the elements that re-
quire the most careful and constant atten-
tion, those which move upward to the great-
est height possible for mortals to reach—will
there be real and lasting benefits? or will it
not all become as “Dead Sea Apples,” hav-
ing within the seeds or the tendency to its
own destruction.
	Is it not true that along with the great
advancement being made in this last cen-
tury many have become proud and haughty
and neglectful of the highest good of man-
kind? Is there not in many instances a
lack of consideration for others, those who
are entitled to benefits and to the results of
achievements?
	In days of old the ancient prophets some-
times called a halt, they were even com-
manded of the Lord to do so, among the
people of Israel.
	Are the people of these times more capa-
ble because of their greater knowledge than
were those who were taught by divine auth-
ority, and lived a more simple life? they cul-
tivated the soil and pastured their flocks and
herds, and the fashions of the world and the
etiquette of society did not trouble them, as
it does the people of today.
	It is well sometimes to pause and con-
sider and question one’s self concerning the
signs of the times!
	It is a momentous time in which we of
today are living; the Latter-day Saints are
well aware of that fact and it behooves them
to be moderate, and avoid the excesses and
dangers that seem at the present to prevail
to such a large extent and are so fascinating
and so bewildering as to deceive and lead to
wrongdoing almost or quite without one’s
being aware of the unhappy if not terrible
results that might and do accrue, although,
perchance, not always follow the careless
and indifferent, who are not in the exact line
of duty and rectitude.
	We are fully aware that it is commonly
said that these things have always existed,
and they always will; and that too may be
partly true, but not quite, for there never
has been the powerful influences of evil to
cope with existing to such an alarming ex-
tent as in the present. People never had
the facilities to accomplish wickedness that
they have now; the rapid modes of transit
and travel, and the knowledge of arts and
sciences innumerable in the hands of wicked
and designing men and women all help to
serve evil purposes if deceitfully manipu-
lated.
	The Latter-day Saints have been warned
by revelation long ago through the Prophet
Joseph Smith and his successors, concerning
the very things that are transpiring and that
encompass us about here and now in our
mountain homes and retreats. We must
not be blind to the facts, but use every en-

[Column 2]
deavor within our power to keep the children
of the rising generation from being led astray;
double our diligence, safeguard every avenue
that is open to indulgences that tend down-
ward to darkness, keep in the narrow way,
walk in the light of truth, preach virtue
and righteousness and right living.
	It is easy to deceive and mislead the in-
nocent and unwary, let parents be warned
in time—there are many wolves in sheep’s
clothing. And many paths by which they
stray, these fair deceitful treacherous wolves
who put on not only sheep’s clothing but
fine and costly apparel and tempt in a thou-
sand ways the confiding and pure-minded
youth of Zion.
	Is there anything that can be done that
has not been tried, if there is by all means
seek to find out and wait not, lest those who
have it in their power to ward off evil be
held accountable for the sin and wickedness
that prevails, and is seemingly running riot
here in our fair cities, where we were wont
to think all was peace and purity and no
harm, or even great temptation to wrong
could ever have power or gain a foothold.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	It is very desirable that the minutes of
conferences, especially the annual confer-
ences of the Relief Society in the several
stakes of Zion, be sent to the General Secre-
tary, of late very few have been received. It
is impossible to keep in touch with the
work being done unless the minutes are at
hand to refer to. Changes are made in
stake officers, and even new presidents of
stakes appointed and the President and
Executive Board only learn of it incident-
ally. Send the minutes of conferences to
the Secretary at the headquarters of the
Relief Society, Bishop's Building, No. 40,
N. Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Please send at once the minutes of the con-
ferences held since the April Conference of
the Relief Society. Do not think because
the minutes cannot all be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT that it is not essential,
they are all history and the General Secre-
tary should know the history of the Society
to keep up the record of the Society as a
whole. This notice refers also to missions
abroad as well as at home. Where confer-
ences of the Relief Society are held in other
languages, there is generally some one who
could translate and make a short report,
which has been done occasionally in years
past. The history of this Society cannot be
complete or correct without such minutes
and data as has been requested now and
heretofore.
	The sketch of Florence Nightingale pub-
lished in this number of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT has been written almost purposely
for the nurses who are studying or have
graduated. We commend it to them and
to all who are interested in humanitarian-
ism, and it should appeal to those who
favor peace and arbitration for the world at
large. In our own country we have Clara
Barton of the Red Cross who is still living,
and we have had a number of women who
rendered valuable service in the civil war,
notably Mary A. Livermore, now deceased,
and Dr. Mary F. Thomas who is we think
still living, and others whose names would
fill our pages with deeds of kindness for the
suffering, without remuneration. And here
it is not amiss to say that in the Relief So-
ciety, among the officers and teachers there


are some of the bravest acts of charity done
in the most beautiful and modest way that
could be imagined, but the angels know,
and even though “the right hand knoweth
not what the left hand doeth,” these acts
of self-sacrifice are recorded, and yet we
who know of these things should not fail to
recognize these “Good Samaritans,” who
carry about with them the spirit of humility,
and give consolation to the mourner and
comfort to the aching heart. We hope this
brief sketch of Florence Nightingale will be
read in the Relief Society and in the Young
Ladies’ Association meetings.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Ogden Stake of
Zion held its quarterly conference in the
Relief Society Hall, at Ogden, Utah, July
19, 1910. This stake being an offshoot of
the Weber Stake, the day designated and
set apart for the conference is of more than
usual significance to the sisters, it being in
honor of the day thirty-three years ago that
President Brigham Young inaugurated the
quarterly conferences and organized the sis-
ters into a stake capacity, Weber Stake be-
ing the first to be thus organized, with our
venerable, time-honored ex-president, Sister
Jane S. Richards, as its president.
	The morning session convened at 10 a. m.
Stake President Sarah M. Taylor presided
and conducted the exercises.
	On the stand were members of the Gen-
eral Relief Society Board, Phoebe Y. Beattie
and Annie K. Hardy, President Charles C.
Richards of the Stake Presidency. Councilor
Christian J. Jensen of the High Council,the
Stake Presidency of the Relief Society, with
their Board, and the local officers.
	After the usual opening exercises,remarks
with a brief history of Weber County Relief
Society from 1877 to its division, and to
the present time of the Ogden Stake, was
given by Sister Nellie Becraft.
	C. J. Jensen of the High Council followed
his subject being “The Keynote to Unity in
the Home.” His words were fraught with
wisdom and he proved most emphatically
that Love is the Keynote; first, love to God
and then to each other, the spirit of service
always being foremost in father, mother
and ohildren. He pictured vividly the
happy home where unity reigned and the
home where discord is found, urging the
former with all the benefits accruing and
especially with a view of making our homes 
ideal for the salvation of our boys and
girls.
	General Board member Annie K. Hardy
spoke on obedience of children. Brother
Jensen struck a responsive chord in her
heart. We teach our children but we fail
to train them. This was Eli’s mistake and
the Lord was not pleased with him, as the
Lord told the boy Samuel. George Wash-
ington’s success was due largely to his-
mother’s early training in obedience. The
Prophet said the sisters should be the
guardians of the home. She pleaded for
wiser motherhood and showed how it might
be attained.
	President Charles C. Richards asked those
of the sisters who were present at the meet-
ing in 1877 to raise their hands—fifteen sis-
ters were present and heard the remarks of
President Brigham Young, some of which
he then alluded to; he referred to the ill-

[Column 2]
ness of his aged mother as being the reason
of her absence on this occasion. He prayed
that the sisters might have strength for
their labors and that in blessing others they
might be blessed.
	After closing remarks by President Tay-
lor the congregation sang, the benediction
and a social hour was spent, during which
time a luncheon was served to all present.
	At 2 p. m. the meeting was again called
to order.
	President Thomas B. Evans of the stake
presidency was an additional visitor, as also
Sister Janette M. Morrell, formerly Stake
President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	General Relief Society Board member
Sister Pheobe Y. Beattie was the first speak-
er, she paid a sweet tribute to the labors of
Sister Jane S. Richards, her mother’s friend
and co-laborer for so many years; she re-
ferred to the meeting held thirty-three years
ago and of the many illustrious brethren
and sisters who were present on that occa-
sion, among ihem, said she, being our own 
dear Aunt Em Wells, of whom it may truth-
fully be said: “She has been the teacher of
the Relief Society.” Outside ladies accord
her the honor of being the moving power
of much that has been done for the benefit
of her sex in these parts. She referred to
some of the deplorable conditions existing
among us today and showing that the blame
is largely on the parents. She read from
the Doctrine and Covenants, section 68 and
urged the early training of the child.
	General Relief Society Board member
Annie K. Hardy referred to the silent labors
of the great army of Relief Society workers
who are accomplishing to the best of their
ability. There is much to be done; a wave
of wickedness is sweeping over us. Our
teachings of today have been rather of pre-
vention; let us give heed to them and see
to it that we do our work wisely and well.
	Sister Janette W. Morrell gave a most ex-
cellent talk on the subject “A Message to
Woman,” showing the trend of the times
and the great need of the Latter-day Saint
women rising to the situation, with a deter-
mination to hold motherhood as the highest
mission given to woman and not to become
entangled with the many allurements
thrown in their path. Showed what home
must be if we are going to hold the child.
	President Thomas B. Evans said we are
truly favored by being taught such things as
we have heard; but how much better shall
we be unless we live them? We assume
much when we fail to put the word of the
Lord to the test. President Smith has said
that there is enough within the pale of the
Church to keep every sister busy without
clubs, etc. Nothing fires one so much as
high ideals, and these may be cultivated.
How shall we feel when we stand before
God if we have failed in our duties as fathers
and mothers.
	After closing remarks by sisters Sarah M.
Taylor and Isabel Foulger of the Stake Pres-
idency of the Relief Society the congregation
sang the parting hymn and the benediction
was pronounced by Sister Sarah A. Tribe.
	The visiting sistere were truly filled with
the spirit of their calling and we feel that
their influence and teachings will be prolific
of good.
	The spirit of the conference was such that
all felt inspired to greater effort and higher
ideals.
				NELLIE BECRAFT, Sec.


OUT-DOOR MEETINGS.
A NEW EFFORT.
	Ever since the Mothers’ Work has been
introduced into the Relief Society of the
Parowan Stake we have had excellent meet-
ings in most of the wards, and Relief So-
ciety work has become better known and
appreciated—the one regret has been gen-
eral with the officers that so few of the
young mothers took advantage of the good
things specially prepared for them, so after
much thought it was suggested that we try
a few meetings during the warm weather on
the lawns of the sisters who could accommo-
date a gathering of the kind. The teachers
visited every home inviting all to meet at
the home of Bishop Jones, a number of our
lectures best suited for young mothers were
reviewed, and discussed; some time was
devoted to testimonies, etc. At the close
the local officers supplied all present with
cake and lemonade. Of a membership of
about 50, 42 were present, a loving sisterly
spirit prompted every word and act and the
sentiment expressed by all was that our
meeting was one of the best ever.
	The Eas[-] ward had a similar meeting the
same day, with an attendance of 35, and
were equally blessed in their efforts. Next
month the West ward will meet on the lawn
of our president, Sister Amy Leigh, and we
hope by our methods to be able to give the
young mothers such an insight into our
work, that they will feel it a real necessity
for them to become punctual attendants,
that their life’s work may be lighter and
more satisfactory.
	If this little report can be suggestive to
any of the Relief Society workers we will be
glad and would also be pleased to learn of
other means, that have been successful in
achieving the great result we are all aiming
for.
E. CRANE WATSON.
Cedar City, Utah.


A SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF EUNICE
		BILLINGS SNOW.
	I was born January 3, 1830 in the town
of Mentor, Ohio. My parents’ names were
Titus Billings and Diantha Morley Billings.
My mother was a sister of patriarch Isaac
Morley, one of the first patriarchs in the
church. My father and mother were born
in Massachusetts. I do not remember the
year they were born. My father always kept
a record, but in moving around it became
destroyed and I cannot remember dates.
My father was seventy-two when he died
and my mother was eighty-four when she
died.
	I was born the year the Church was or-
ganized and when I was two years old, 1832,
my parents joined the Church of Jesus
Christ sf Latter-day Saints. I was baptized
when I was eight years old, and I have nev-
er known or tried to know any other reli-
gion. I am perfectly satisfied with Mor-
monism. I have had so many testimonies
of the truth of this glorious gospel, I could
not enumerate them if I were to try.
	The names of my father’s parents were
Samuel and Esther Billings. The names
of my mother’s parents were Thomas Mor-
ley and Editha Marsh Morley.
	Before I was four years old, my parents
moved to Jackson County, Missouri, on ac-
count of their love and interest in the gos-
pel. They wished to be where they could
hear and partake of the benefits of their
religion.


[Column 1]
	I can remember when I was four years
old of hearing my older brother exclaiming
about the stars falling from heaven, and my
mother saying, “Praise God, the Lord is
merciful to us.”
	About this time great persecution began
against the saints, and I remember seeing
the flames when my uncle Isaac Morley’s
cooper shop was burning, having been set
on fire by the mob. I shall never forget the
sight of those flames, I remember hearing
my mother tell of the persecutions of the
Prophet Joseph and Edward Partridge. My
mother said that the wives of these two men
were lamenting to her that their husbands
had been tarred and feathered and sent
home to them to be cleaned.
	Our house was threatened to be burned,
and my father was at that time guarding
the Prophet, and my mother took three of
her youngest children, I among the number
to Calvin Beebe’s house. He was too old
to serve as a guard, and while going there,
my mother, fearing to take the highway,
dragged us as speedily as possible through
the brush and over the stones. Once com-
ing to the crossroads, and having a lantern
hidden under her apron, she was frightened
nearly to death by seeing the flash of a
sword in her face, held by a man behind a
large tree. He was guarding the cross road.
His name was Morgan Gardner, and he im-
mediately reassured her by stating that he
was a friend and not an enemy. My limbs
were torn and bleeding when we reached the
Beebe house, where we found about twenty-
five or thirty more women and children as-
sembled, I remember well how my limbs
bled and how I dared not murmur, or make
a sound for fear of arousing our enemies.
	We were soon put to bed and the women
remained on guard through the night. My
mother told me that during the night, the
women took turns for two hours each, in
putting on the old gentleman’s clothes, and
walking the dooryard with a gun on their
shoulder and keeping guard. Once a white
horse that was browsing in the door-yard
was shot and killed by the enemy. They
probably presumed that it was a person to
whom they were hostile. These events hap-
pened during the persecution in Jackson
County.
	When I was five years old, my parents
moved to Clay County, Missouri, and there
we were all taken sick with chills and fever.
There was no one left to wait on another
and my mother had to wait on herself and
the rest of the family including my father.
During the period when my father was not
suffering with the chills, which occurred
every third day, he succeeded in raising a
crop of corn for bread. About this time
when my youngest brother was nine months
old, we were all separated. My father,
mother and baby boy were taken to Bishop
Edward Partridge’s home to be taken care
of on account of sickness. Our family was
brought together after awhile and we moved
to Far West. I remember seeing the Proph-
et here for the first time. He was taken
prisoner in this place and the brethren all
gave up their arms to the mob. My father
was in the battle of Crooked River and stood
between David Patten and William Hen-
dricks. He saw David Patten mortally
wounded and William Hendricks shot
through the neck, (he lived to come to Utah
but afterwards died from the effects of the
wound). The bullets were flying in every
direction, but my father had no fear until
he saw David Patten fall, then he stepped
behind a tree until the enemy had ceased

[Column 2]
firing, The number of the saints seemed to
be multiplied by divine power, and the
enemy thinking the number was greater
than it really was, fled, leaving their horses
and equipment behind them, of these the
brethren took possession. My father ob-
tained a beautiful mare and saddle, and I
remember hearing hfm say that she was a
fine animal. Having no feed for her, he
hitched her in the hazel brush back of the
house for the night, but during that same
night he was called away. It happened in
this way. On his return from the battle, in
which A. O. Smoot was also, and where my
father had had no sleep nor rest for five days
and nights, being very much exhausted, he
told my mother that he wanted to sleep for
two hours and requested that she bathe his
feet and put clean stockings on them while
he slept. But before he had slept an hour
he was suddenly aroused by a call from
Hosea Stout, who had been in the battle,
stating that he must get right up and flee
within two hours. They feared that the
enemy would pursue them on account of
the taking of the horses. My mother hastily
prepared whatever food she could in the
short time and he left with the rest of the
party. As we afterwards learned, they
reached Lima, Illinois, after suffering con-
siderable hardship. My father had his feet
frozen and the only food that was left after
their short rations gave out, was slippery
elm bark for themselves and horses for three
days and nights. The first news that my
mother had after he left, was a slip of paper
posted somewhere on the road, stating that
he was well, but on account of conditions
at the post-office at Far West, the post-
master, W. W. Phelps being an apostate, it
was necessary that their names be changed
in order to correspond, and he took the
name Titus Skinner and she was to be
Diantha Skinner, and so they corresponded.
We suffered very much that winter, I re-
member how cold it was, as our house was
open and not finished, the fireplace especi-
ally, having no hearthstone, and we had to
get elose to it to keep warm. We often
lacked for food. During the following spring
Benjamin Slade took my mother and her
children to Quincy, Illinois where we met
my father. I remember this trip very well.
We traveled with my father to Lima, where
he visited with his friends who had taken
care of him when his feet were frozen, and
after remaining there one winter we contin-
ued our journey to Nauvoo, which we reached
in 1841.
	I remember the temple built on the hill.
The Prophet’s house was located on the
flats near the Mississippi River, while our
house was situated in the northeast part of
the city, close to brother Heber C. Kimball’s.
I went to school with the Prophet Joseph’s
children. The schoolhouse consisted of one
room, containing about thirty children, and
taught by Sister Eliza Roxey Snow. I went
with my mother to visit the Prophet’s fath-
er, Joseph, Sr., when he was on his death-
bed. He looked so peaceful and heavenly
that I have never forgotten his appearance.
I remember the Prophet’s son Joseph. He
was a quiet, studious boy. I have slight re-
collection of Frederick and Alexander. There
was an adopted daughter in the family
named Murdock, but who was generally
called Julia Smith. She was a constant
companion of mine and for that reason I
often visited the Prophet’s home, eating
there and spending many nights at a time
with the adopted daughter. This young
lady was not aware of the fact that she had

[Column 3]
been adopted until some one told her, and
it nearly broke her heart. Emma Hale
Smith had been very particular to keep the
fact a secret, and had warned many people
not to mention it to the child, but the se-
cret came out at last; however, she appeared
after awhile not to be very much affected.
	Emma Hale taught her to look upon her
as a mother, this she had always done, and
Emma’s love for her continued. She was
proud to be the daughter of the Prophet.
	In one of the reception rooms there were
three mummies, two men and one woman,
and it was of great interest to us to view
them, although they gave me a very strange
feeling of awe at times.
	During the times of the persecution of the
Prophet, especially when he was in hiding,
he would sometimes be allowed to visit his
family for an evening and during that time he
would request my father and mother to come
to sing for him. They would take me with
them and when Joseph found that I could
sing a part alone he requested them to bring
me. We would sing his favorite hymns,
“When Joseph His Brethren Beheld,” “Re-
deemer of Israel,” “The Spirit of God,” and
several others. He would have me sit close
to him and laying his hands on my head
would say, “My little sister, you will be able
to sing the songs of Zion as long as you de-
sire.” He has also blessed me on different
occasions and he would become so inspired
with the spirit of the music that he would
clap his hands and shout hosanna to the
Lord.
	I was always very much affected by the
spirit which he manifested. At first I did
not know what it was, but my mother told
me it was the power which Joseph pos-
sessed.
	My mother sometimes did knitting for
Emma Hale and one time when I took
some work home, I was ushered directly
into Emma’s bed room, when some person
jumped behind the door. Emma called to
him, it being the Prophet, and said, “Do
not be afraid, it is Mrs. Billings’ young
daughter.”
	It was the time of a raid, and when Jos-
eph appeared from behind the door, he put
his hand on my head and remarked, “God
bless you, you won’t tell where I am, will
you?” I replied, “No, sir, I will not.” I
would have suffered any punishment before
I would have told where he was. It made
me feel so strange at the time when he put
his hand on my head, and again I asked
my mother why it was, and she said it was
the power which he possessed.
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE
	To Sister Celia E. Hunt Bean, who was called
home, May last 1910.
	I first met her as a young girl, many years ago
just budding into womanhood.
	She was modest, gentle, rather timid and shy at
times, yet, one could not fail to perceive on first
aquaintance, the unusual personality, the true
genuineness of soul and superiority of mind she
possessed.
	We were schoolmates, personal friends for a
number of years, and my being her senior, she
often came to me for advice. Along religious and
literary lines she excelled.
	She was descended from an excellent family, on
both her father and mother's lines.
	The dear old grandmother, Celia Hunt, (for
whom she was named) wife of Captain Jefferson
Hunt, of Mormon Battalion fame, told me thirty-
six years ago. that she was "first cousin to the
gallant General Montgomery, who fell at the bat-
tle of Quebec, early in the Revolutionary war."
	In Celia's family circle she was a leader, re-


fined, cultured, spiritual in temperament, she
ever wielded an influence for the uplifting the
moral strength of her home. As wife and mother
she was self-sacrificing and untiring in her labors
of love and devotion.
	In the communities which were fortunate in
claiming her as a citizen, all have felt her kindly
help and generous aid i[-] their time of sorrow or
necessity. Firm in her religious convictions, she
never wavered in her trust in God.
	We will all miss her magnetic presence, her
honorable, upright character, her gentle woman-
liness, the grace and loveliness of her life, but to
her husband, her children, her immediate family
associates, her loss is irreparable. May God's
mercy, His love, His care, guidance and protec-
tion be over and with them all the time, is my
faithful, my earnest prayer.
JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.
August 1, 1910.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	Died at Cannonville, Utah, July 6, 1910, Mrs.
Lydia Ann Johnson, beloved wife of Seth Johnson
Sr. She was the daughter of the late Thomas P.
Smith, and his wife Mary Aagard, and was born
Feb. 17, 1847, at Worcester, England, came to
Utah in the early fifties with her parents. Her
mother died when she was eight years old. She
was married to Seth Johnson Nov. 11, 1861, and
was the mother of fourteen children, thirteen of
whom survive her, seven sons and six daughters.
Her love for her family knew no bounds and self-
ishness had no place in her heart. She was pres-
ident of ward Relief Society for 20 years and in
that labor won the greatest love from her associ-
ates. She was a nurse among the sick for years
and acted as teacher in Sunday School and presi-
dent of Primary Association. and was faithful in
all her labors.
S. JOHNSON, SR.


OBITUARY.
	In memory of Jennie Dixon Hickman, of Hinck-
ley, Utah, who was called home May 23, 1910.
	Sister Hickman was born in Payson, Utah, Feb-
ruary 24, 1879. She was the only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. John H, Dixon of Payson. She was
married to F. Leslie Hickman in the Salt Lake
Temple, June 19, 1906.
	Since her marriage she has lived in Hinckley
and has won the love and admiration of the en-
tire community, She was in every respect an
ideal woman so pure, so gentle and kind, so tal-
ented and cultured—she was always on hand to
perform any task assigned to her. In her faith-
ful work as a member and teacher in the Hinck-
ley Relief Society, she was never found wanting.
	She leaves a husband and two little children,
also a multitude of friends to mourn her loss.
	The officers of the Hinckley Relief Society offer
the following
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, after a painful illness, our beloved
sister, Jennie Dixon Hickman, has been called to
the "other side", be it resolved that we, the Sis-
ters of the Hinckley Relief Society do sincerly sym-
pathize with the grief-stricken family, and we
mourn for one who was one of earth's choicest
spirits—a model for us all.
	Resolved that in her death we recognize and feel
keenly the loss of a true saint and faithful worker,
aud we are proud to have had her association and
example and we are sure that she will receive the
crown of one of the noblest daughters of Zion.
Farewell, dear, but not forever—
There will be a glorious dawn;
We shall meet to part, no, never!
On the resurrection morn.
'Tho thy darling form lies sleeping
In the cold and silent tomb,
Thou shalt have a glorious waking
When the blessed Lord doth come.
	Resolved that the resolutions be placed on the
record of the Relief Society and a copy be sent to
the bereaved family.
Phoebe Hale Mecham, Pres.
Catherine A, Allred, Sec.


UNIVERSAL MUNICIPAL SUFFRAGE FOR
		WOMEN IN NORWAY.
	On June 7th the King of Norway gave
the royal assent to the bill for con-
ferring universal municipal suffrage on
women. The bill was sent up from


the Lagting to the Odelsting, and passed
by that chamber on May 27th by
twenty-four votes to seven. The Liberal
Minister, M. Arctander, had advised the
King to use his veto against the bill, and
as his advice was not taken by the sovereign,
and not approved by his colleagues in the
government, M. Arctander resigned. “He
is, perhaps,” says a writer from Christiania,
in Jus Suffragii, “the first member of a
king’s cabinet to resign his officc because
he was against victorious woman suffrage,
The event is the more important because
M. Arctander is one of our best known and
ablest statesmen, and today his career has
probably ended for ever.” The writer, who
is a man, adds: “The fall of Arctander is
the most striking example of the power that
the women’s claim for justice has won in
the minds of Norwegian men.”

THE WOMEN’S CHARTER IN HOLLAND.
	The Dutch Women’s Suffrage Association
has prepared a comprehensive statement of
the laws which place women at a disadvant-
age, socially, legally, morally, and has
formulated a demand for the vote. Advant-
age was taken of the Queen’s annual visit to
the capital to pray for an audience. A
deputation was graciously received by her
majesty. A petition similar to that pre-
sented to the Queen was sent to the second
chamber and the principal newspapers.

THE BRUSSELS CONGRESS.
	Miss Martina G. Kramers, editor of Jus
Suffragii, represented the International
Woman Suffrage Alliance at the World’s
Congress of International Associations held
at Brussells on May 9, 10, and 11, 1910.
During the sectional meetings, Miss Kram-
ers got a woman placed on one of the sec-
tional boards, and called attention to the
rights of mothers, married women, and self-
supporting women as a topic for discussion
in societies working for international juris-
prudence. A resolution was drafted.
					EMILY HILL.
	P. S.—The bill, after a striking debate,
passed the second reading by a majority of
109 on July 12. It was then referred to a
committee of the whole house by a majority
of 145.—English Woman’s Review, London.


A GREAT DEMONSTRATION.
	The greatest demonstration of suffragists
in the history of the world was made in Lon-
don on the afternoon of July 23. Half a
million women marched in a street parade,
cheering and waving flags, to the historic
place in Hyde Park, to protest against the
action of the government in shelving the
Shackleton bill granting the ballot to wo-
men.
	Mrs. M. Drummond, on horseback, com
manded the procession. The women
tramped to the music of forty bands. A
feature of the procession was a body of 617
women who had suffered imprisonment for
the sake of suffrage.
	The Rev. Dr. Anna Shaw of New York
commanded a group of Americans who
marched under the Stars and Stripes. This
group had the place of honor among the
foreign delegations. Among the American
women in the parade were Miss Dorre of
Chicago, Mary Fisk of Detroit, Mrs. Chapin
and her daughter Elsie of Boston, Mabel
Willard of Boston, Miss Hart of Wellesley


College, Miss Inez Milholland of New York,
Dr. Martin of Stanford University, and Alice
Davis of New York.
	Four American women carried blue ban-
ners inscribed ‘Women Vote in Utah, Col-
orado, Wyoming and Idaho.” Dr. Martin,
the Rev. Anna Shaw and Miss Hart of
Wellesley wore their academic robes. It
had been announced that Mrs. O. H. P.
Belmont would march side by side with the
Rev. Anna Shaw, but she was detained in
Paris and was unable to join in the demon-
stration.
	A band of Irish women pipers played in-
cessantly, and the weird strains of their in-
struments at times rose up and deadened
the tumult of shouts and screams. A
squadron of Irish women attired in green
dresses followed the pipers. There were
drum corps and fife corps made up of wo-
men. There was also a regiment of suffra-
gist cavalry which brought up the rear
guard.—Boston Woman’s Journal.


VISIT ABROAD.
	The visit of President Joseph F. Smith
and Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley and
party to Europe has been fraught with great
interest to the Saints in foreign lands. The
greatest conference perhaps ever held out-
side of the United States was the one con-
vened in the Netherlands, at Rotterdam,
Holland, July 24th, 1910, at which Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith and Bishop C. W.
Nibley were present, also President Rudger
Clawson, and addressed the large congre-
gation. The newspaper accounts given
speak in the highest terms of praise of the
discourses delivered and the spirit of the
gatherings; one hundred and fifty Elders
were present, and it is estimated that there
were fifteen hundred persons in all at the
Sunday evening meeting. It would seem
that a very great work is being done in that
land.
	In Scandinavia the work has always made
great progress and many honest souls have
been converted and come to America for
the Gospel’s sake. President Smith and
party visited the large cities in Sweden,
Norway and Denmark, and word received
from President Andrew Jenson gives glow-
ing accounts of the reception of the party
in those countries and the joyful gatherings,
meetings and honors accorded to the
visitors.
	From the northern countries of Europe
President Smith and party will likely visit
Germany and some of the larger towns and
cities in the German Empire, and surely
will see Paris before returning; whether they
will be able to go to Switzerland and all the
British Isles is doubtful.
	The ocean voyage and journey will, it is
ardently hoped, be beneficial to the Presi-
dent’s health, and his visit abroad has cer-
tainly afforded him the satisfaction of giv-
ing pleasure to the Saints who love him,
and it may be there are some of the older
people who would never have been able to
come to Zion, who will have enjoyed the
gratification of meeting and greeting the
Prophet, Seer and Revelator of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints.
	That the Lord will bless him while absent
and bring him home to Utah in good health
and in peace and safety, having accom-
plished for the latter-day work what he de-
sired to do is the earnest wish of all those
who are interested in the welfare of Zion.
						E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A FAVORITE SONGSTRESS.
	The evening, Friday, July 1, 1910, a de-
lightful reception was tendered to some of
the relatives and dear friends of Miss Emma
Lucy Gates after her home coming, in the
Social Hall, in this city. The affair was in
the hands of a committee but was tendered
to her by her father and mother, Brother
and Sister Jacob F. Gates. It was a very
pleasant informal gathering and quite dis-
tinctive from social parties generally. The
guest of honor (for such she really was) met
the guests with a simplicity of manner and
cordial greeting that one rarely finds in
young men and women, who have studied
and traveled abroad and received great ap-
plause and adulation from appreciative
audiences and whose names and fame have
been heralded abroad in the public press.
	Miss Gates evidently loves her mountain
home and her native country. She is full
of the enthusiasm of her vocation and de-
termined to attain to the greatest possible
excellence in the musical world for which
she is studying, and is even now taking part
in the Royal Opera at Berlin.
	The Social Hall is a favorite place for fes-
tivities, and this occasion was no exception;
a sweet, gentle spirit pervaded the party,
and the hours flew swiftly by. After the
formal greetings prayer was offered and
Clive’s band played the choicest pieces of
music. Elder Jacob Gates came forward
and made an address of welcome, explain-
ing the nature of the entertainment and why
it was given, Miss Gates only had a brief
leave of absence from the Royal Opera Com-
pany at Berlin where she was playing, and
it meant so much to her to visit her home
and see a number of her people, and so on.
	Later on Miss Gates herself made a brief
statement and gave the company a warm
welcome, and then in her dainty fashion
sang two of the sweetest characteristic songs
that touched every heart.
		Sing aweet bird, etc.
		Shells of the ocean.
“O, how delightful, O how entrancing.”

	These songs, familiar in days gone by
and sung by sweet singers who are now no
more, and we thought it most kind of her to
sing in her pathetic but wonderful rich voice
full of sweetness and exquisite melody “the
dear old songs.”
	There was dancing by the younger set
who seemed to thoroughly enter into the
spirit of merriment, and yet at the close a
tinge of sadness that perhaps it would be
long years before they met again, remem-
bering the words of the poet:
“It may be for years and it may be for ever.”
	During the party light refreshments were
served in the dining room below.
	Miss Gates left the city soon after to rest
and rusticate in the canyon a day or two
after the party, and while at Brighton gave
a fine concert. Since then she has sailed
for Europe to resume her studies in Berlin.
	Miss Gates has a brilliant career open be-
fore her, and her friends at home are look-
ing forward to the future with “great expec-
tations” of her standing at the head of the
musical profession, in culture and develop-
ment of the human voice. May this sweet
singer attain to the highest expression of
this divine art in the songs of Zion. E.B.W.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Mildred Jones, a pretty and suc-
cessful young school teacher of Tulsa, Ok.,
is the Republican candidate for superin-
tendent of schools in Tulsa county, and is


[Column 1]

making a strong campaign. Opponents of
Miss Jones are advancing the argument that
she is too young for the place, but she is
answering, as did Abraham Lincoln when
the same thing was said about him in the
early days of his career: "I'll outgrow it in
time."
	At Hastings-on-Hudson, New York, re-
cently the women voted, regardless of their
previous attitude on the question of suffrage. 
	Under an old village ordinance women
property owners are entitled to vote in elec-
tions where appropriations are to be author-
ized. Hitherto the privilege has never been
exercised, but when the project to vote
money for sewers, street improvements and
school buildings was to be decided, the wo-
men turned out in force. So well did they
work and vote that every proposal was
carried, and some $300,000 will be expend-
ed for needed improvements. 
	The most approved election methods were
utilized by the women. Automobiles and
carriages took them to the polls and a wo-
man at the booths instructed each voter
carefully how to cast her ballot.—Ex.

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe testified recently
before the Massachusetts legislative com-
mittee which is investigating the milk
question. Her steps were uncertain as she
entered the large hearing room, but she de-
clined a chair offered by the committee. 
Standing at the end of the witness table,
honored by an exemption from the oath
which is administered to all other witnesses
she entered her plea for pure milk. It was
a plea largely in behalf of the children. “It
seems to me a most important object,” she
said, "which commends itself to all good
citizens. It is a matter of life and death. 
There is no substitute for milk in the rear-
ing of children. There are several parties
to the situation, and I think the principal
party is the child in the cradle. We want
this matter settled on the ground of justice
and mercy, and it ought not to take very
long to settle what is just to all parties and
what is merciful to one (the infant). I do
want that those who produce this food for
us should have suitable compensation. Just-
ice to all parties—let us stand on that."

	The suffragists have won another victory
in Sweden. Parliament lately broadened
the basis of municipal suffrage for both men
and women, and in doing so they accident-
ally broadened it for women a little more
than they had intended. The municipal
vote had been limited almost entirely to

[Column 2]

single women and widows. In readjusting
the qualifications for both men and women,
the bill was so worded as to make it possi-
ble for any married woman with a small in-
come to get her name placed on the register
by paying a voluntary tax. Thereupon a
member opposed to equal suffrage intro-
duced an innocent-looking bill to exempt
married women with an income of less than
200 kroner from taxation. The effect of it
would have been to make it impossible for
married women with small incomes to vote. 
The women discovered "the joker." The
Swedish National Suffrage Association,
which has 164 local branches and more than
11,000 members, held a meeting of protest,
and sent to every member of Parliament a
letter urging that the municipal rights of
Swedish women ought not to be curtailed
just when Norway had made municipal suf-
frage for women universal. The Lower
House voted down the bill unanimously. 
In the non-representative Upper House it
was amended and then passed, but when it
came up for final action by the two houses
sitting jointly, it was decisively defeated. 
Thus, though the married women with small
incomes got their municipal vote by inad-
vertence, the Parliament which has just ad-
journed decided deliberately to let them
keep it. 

	Dr. Alice Hamilton, a long-time resident
of Hull House, Chicago, received on June
30, the honorary degree of Master of Arts
from the University of Michigan. Until re-
cently she was assistant to Dr. Ludwig Hek-
toen, head of the Memorial Laboratory for
the Study of Infectious Diseases. She is a
graduate of the medical department of the
University of Michigan, and has made
special studies of the universities of Munich
and Leipzig and at the Institute at Frank-
fort. Her contributions to medical litera-
ture have given her distinction in the medi-
cal profession.


[Column 1]
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
	SCHOOL in NURSING and
	OBSTETRICS will open Oct-
	ober 10, 1910.
Address:
		713 SECOND AVE.,
			SALT LAKE CITY,
						UTAH.

[Column 2]
	School of Nurses
			and Obstetrics
DR. ROBERTS’ SCHOOL OF NURSING
Will open in Salt Lake City, on Mon-
day, September 19, School in Obstet-
rics will start Monday, October 10,
1910. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts is a gradu-
ate of the Woman’s Medical College
of Pennsylvania. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Twenty-five years a practicing phy-
sician in Salt Lake City. . . . . . . . . .
Twenty years has taught nursing
and obstetrics. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For seven years Instructor of the
Latter-day Saints Relief Society
School of Nurses. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For further information write to
	MARGARET C. ROBERTS, M. D.,
		79 C. Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Bell Phone 2002.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71, Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

