Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1910					No. 5.


CONTENTS.
Lucy Walker Kimball........................................	33
Relief Society Reports......................................34, 38
Relief Society Socials........................................	35
Notes and News..........................................35, 35, 40
Report of the National Woman’s Relief Society	37
Editorial:—Birthday Anniversary.....................	36
	Thanksgiving............................................	36
	“Uphold the Right”...................................	36
	A Delightful Banquet................................	37
Poetry:—The Old Songs.........L. M. Hewlings	33
	Recompense....................Hattie C. Jensen	35
	Julia Ward Howe............Ruth B. Chenery	37
	Past and Future.........................................
		...............Marian Adams Gudmunsen	40


THE OLD SONGS.
	[In reply to the question, “Do you sing those
sweet old songs now you sung in days “Lang
Syne?”]
	Nay, I canna’ sing the old songs,
		You loved so well to hear;
	Sung oft in happy days how gone,
		When love and life were dear.
	Those charming days of “Auld Lang Syne.”
		Woven with sunshine round,—
	Adown the corridors of time,
		Now but in fancy found.
	Nay, I canna’ sing the old songs,
		There comes a rush of tears,
	And my voice fails to reach the notes
		Soar’d o’er in bygone years.
	I may not touch a broken lute,
		Nor strike a jangled string,
	Nor strive with tones forever mute,
		Those dear old songs to sing.
	My harp is on the willows hung;
		Its strains of music o’er,
	Those dear old songs remain unsung,
		That oft thrilled hearts of yore.
	“Sweet highland Mary”—“Bonnie doon,”—
		“Ben Bolt”—and Nelly Bly,”—
	“Raking the hay in merrie June,”—
		And “Comin’ thro’ the rye.”
	“O thre’s ne’er made sic’ anither,”—
		“Annie Laurie,”—“Ivy green,”—
	“Sweet Home”—“The last rose of sum-
			mer”—
		“Bonnie blue-eyed Kathleen,”—
	“Kate Mavourneen,”—“Rory o’Moore,”—
		“Jessie flower o’ Dumblane,”—
	“Young Mary across the moor,”—
		“When shall we meet again,”—
	“Old oaken bucket,”—“Lochinvar,”—
		“Bide ye darlent, wi’ me,”—
	“Pledged to union in peace or war,”—
		“Land of the brave and free,”—
	*“Now launch the boat upon the wave,”—
		“Do they miss me at home?”—
	“Here’s health bonnie Scotland to thee,”—
		“Westward our footsteps roam.”
	These are some of the old songs,
		Twined in a wreath for you;
	Souvenir of days “Lang Syne,”
		With life’s bright roseate hue.
	They cheer my heart like summer ram,
		As I their names recall,
	I seem to hear each echoed strain,-
		Now blending with them all.
					—L. M. Hewlings.
	Footnote.—This poem is re-published from
Volume 25 of the Woman’s Exponent, No. 20,
April 15, 1897. The writer is long since dead,
but her writings still live and her name is thus
perpetuated.—E. B. W.

	*Greek Emigrants’ Song.


[Column 1]
	LUCY WALKER KIMBALL.
		(Autobiography.)
	Early next morning a fine looking young
officer rode into camp and said he had come
as a friend to save us from the fate of those
at the mill. He referred to the dreadful
scene with words of sympathy and regret;
said he was forced to join the military to
save his own life, but had done and would
do all in his power to save the oppressed. If
we would follow him he would lead us to
a place of safety in a friendly neighbor-
hood, where he would find shelter from the
cold storms of winter. We followed him
and there was where my father found us.
James Flanagan, the young misionary who
died with smallpox in England in 1848, was
one of our company. He was an exem-
plary young man, in fact an exception
among men. His zeal for the cause of truth
was unexcelled.
	We left the State of Missouri in 1838;
went with the Saints to Quincy, Illinois,
and to Nauvoo in 1841.
	My father performed two missions to the
Eastern States, emigrated with the Church
in 1846 to Council Bluffs, and was appoint-
ed president of a branch of the Church in
that locality. In 1850, he came to Utah and
settled in Farmington, Davis County, where
after many years of suffering, caused by the
hardships he had endured, he passed away
October 18, 1869, aged seventy-five years,
five months and eight days. Thus ended
the life of one whose great grandfather
came from Scotland and was one of the first
settlers in Connecticut. His grandfather,
Jos. Walker, was born in Connecticut, town
of Woodbury. His wife’s name was Eliza-
beth. They had five sons and several daugh-
ters. The sons’ names were as follows:
Joseph, Simeon, Caleb, Timothy and Reu-
ben. The names of the daughters I do not
know. He subsequently moved to Peacham,
Caledonia County, Vermont. He was over
ninety-five years of age. His wife died at
ninety. His father, Simeon Walker, was
born in Connecticut, town of Woodbury,
and in the Revolutionary war served his
country faithfully, being severely wounded
by a cannon ball in the thigh, which pro-
duced lameness during life. I fancy I see
him now as he comes down the hill from
Peacham bowed with the infirmities of age
and hardship, leaning on his staff. He takes
me on his knee and tells me the story of the
war; how he became lame; how bravely
they fought for freedom; “Liberty or death”
was the watchword. My grandfather was
one of the first settlers in Peacham. There
they were compelled to stand guard to pre-
vent being kidnapped by the Tories. After
the Tories were subdued he made a farm,
married Mary, daughter of Reuben and
Beulah Miner, and had a family of nine
children, namely, Solomon, Simeon, Abel,
John, Charles, Ruth, Clarinda, Mary and
Elizabeth.
	William Holmes my grandfather, on my
mother’s side, was born January 15, 1770,
in Kingston, Plymouth County, Massachu-

[Column 2]
setts; Lydia Adams, his wife, was born same
town, county and state.
	Lydia Holmes, my mother, was an only
daughter, almost an idol in the home where
there were seven sons. There was great
grief in the hearts of, her family and friends
when she received the gospel and came west.
Their sorrow knew no bounds when they
received news of her death, which occurred
January 18, 1842, at Nauvoo, Hancock
County, Illinois. I will state here, however,
that my father and second brother, Lorin,
came to Nauvoo in the spring of 1840, to
attend conference and secure a home. Fath-
er concluded to leave Lorin with the Proph-
et until harvest, with the understanding that
he should then return and help him through
harvesting; but when the time came, the
Prophet told him to write to father to hire
some one in his stead and at his expense, as
he could not part with him. In the spring
of ’41 father took his family to Nauvoo.
My brother met us with an invitation to
dinner, which we gladly accepted and were
introduced to the Prophet and his wife Em-
ma, and the dear children, who in after years
I learned to love as my own brothers, and
Julia, an adopted daughter, as my sister.
During the summer mother was taken with
chills and fever. At length one after an-
other of the children were attacked with
the same disease until all were in a help-
less condition. Mother was invited to spend
a few days at the Prophet’s house, they
thinking a change would benefit her. But
she could not be content away from her
afflicted family. At her earnest solicitation
they sent her home to her family, by plac-
ing a bed in a sleigh, as the summer had
passed and it was now good sleighing, cov-
ered her closely with blankets and, besides,
sent many comforts to those at home, as
they had often done during her stay.
	My mother lingered until January, ’42,
then passed away. Calling her children
around her bed she bore a faithful testi-
mony as to her convictions that Joseph
Smith was a Prophet of God, and that
through him the Gospel of the Son of God
had been restored in its fulness, whereby
we might return into the presence of the
Father; exhorted her children to never de-
part from the truth, but to live so that she
might meet them in that world where there
would be no more sorrow, no more suffer-
ing, no more tears of anguish at pronounc-
ing the sad word goodbye. She then closed
her eyes and her sweet spirit passed away,
leaving a beautiful smile on her dear face.
It did not seem to us that it was possible
she was dead, but only in a sweet sleep.
When at length we were forced to believe
she would never speak to us again we were
in the depths of despair. Ten motherless
children! And such a mother! The young-
est was not yet two years old. What were
we to do?
	The Prophet came to our rescue. He
said: “If you remain here, Brother Walk-
er, you will soon follow your wife. You
must have a change of scene, a change of


[Column 1]
elemate. You have just such a family as
I could love. My house shall be their home.
I will adopt them as my own. For the
present I would advise you to sell your ef-
fects, place the little ones with some kind
friends, and the four eldest shall come to
my house and be received and treated as
my own children, and if I find the others
are not content or not treated right, I will
bring them home and keep them, until you
return.” I wrung my hands in the agony
of despair at the thought of our being brok-
en up as a family, and being separated from
the loved ones. “But,” said the Prophet,
“my home shall be your home, eternally
yours.” My father sought to comfort us by
saying two years would soon pass away,
then we might be together again. Soon af-
ter he left, my sister Lydia, aged eight
years and eleven months, was attacked with
brain fever. We had visited her several
times and found that all that was done did
not relieve her sufferings and when we told
the Prophet how very sick she was he told
the boys to put a bed in the carriage and he
went with them. Told the family that they
must excuse him but he was under the
greatest obligation to look after their wel-
fare and had come to take her to his own
house where he could see to her himself.
He took her in his arms from the carriage
and baptized her in the Mississippi River;
but in a few days she too passed away.
Everything that could be done was done.
But she was to join her dear mother in the
spirit world and we were left more lonely
than before. Here allow me to say that our
own father and mother could scarcely have
done more or manifested greater solici-
tude for her recovery than did the Prophet
and his wife Emma. They watched with
us by her bedside and when all was over ac-
companied us to her last resting place be-
side her mother. One after another were
brought home until all the younger mem-
bers of the family were there except the
baby. Judge Adams and wife, of Spring-
field, Ill., came to Nauvoo and desired one
of the girls to live with them. We reluc-
tantly consented for sister Jane to return
with them, where she had a pleasant home
until after their death, when she returned to
Nauvoo. My brother William married Miss
Olive Hovey Farr, in the fall of 1843. They
boarded at the Mansion six months then
went to housekeeping and took the children
with him. I begged the privilege of going
with them. I thought it too great a task for
his wife to assume so great a responsibility.
The Prophet and his wife introduced us as
their sons and daughters. Every privilege
was accorded us in the home. Every pleas-
ure within reach was ours. He often re-
ferred to Brother Lorin as his “Edwin.”
He was indeed his confidential and trusted
friend. He was ever by his side; arm in arm
they walked and conversed freely on various
subjects. He was with him when he was
arrested at Dixon by Wilson and Reynolds,
who were determined to take him down the
river into Missouri but were foiled in this
attempt. It was in this case “Uncle Billy”
Rogers, as he was familiarly called, made
himself conspicuous in his defense, declared
with an oath that they could not come there
and kidnap a man and take him away in that
manner. Said he would be damned if Smith
would not have fair play. They were forced
to take him through the state by way of
Nauvoo. Lorin hurried on home, brought

[Column 2]
his favorite horse Charley, and met him on
foot, weary and covered with dust. He
warmly embraced him, mounted his horse,
and rode into Nauvoo. As they drew near
the city the people turned out en masse to
greet him. Brother Lorin went with him
to Springfield to attend his trial and had the
exquisite pleasure of seeing him acquitted.
	At the time he crossed the river and was
actively making arrangements to go beyond
the Rocky Mountains, he said, “I have the
promise of life for five years if I listen to
the voice of the spirit.” But when Emma
and some of his brethren besought him to
return, he said, “If my life is worth nothing
to you it is worth nothing to me.’ He well
knew it was in the programme that he must
sacrifice his life for the principles God had
revealed through him. Death had no terrors
for him although life was dear. I have often
heard him say he expected to seal his testi-
mony with his blood. He anticipated great
joy in meeting his parents and friends be-
yond the grave. He believed that as soon
as the spirit left the body we were shaking
hands with and greeting our friends.”
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALBERTA STAKE.
	A special conference of the Alberta Stake
Relief Society convened in the Cardston As-
sembly hall, Sisters Ida S. Dusenberry and
Amy Lyman of the General Board, Salt
Lake City, being present.
	Stake President Mary J. Hinman pre-
sided. After the usual opening exercises,
Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman welcomed all
who had met together, felt the Lord was
mindful of us as a people. Felt pleased with
the presence of the sisters from Salt Lake.
Sister Amy Lyman addressed the meeting.
Had been much interested in listening to the
minutes of the previous conference, and also
with the lecture given on Amusements for
Our Growing Boys and Girls. Gave an in-
teresting talk on the same subject. Repeated
a saying of Mrs. Stetson, a noted American
lady, who once said that women must have
something to do to take up their time and
energies or they would be apt to gossip.
She had taken up Relief Society work re-
cently and felt it the most beautiful in all the
world. Said the good to be gained from
this work is not all in doing good to others,
but it is a great benefit to the individual.
She had seen and appreciated our outlines,
felt that current events would be a good
subject to add to our program, it will keep
us in touch with the news of the world.
	Sister Sarah Easthope of Mt. View, aged
seventy-five years, very beautifully sang a
solo entitled, “The Daughters of Zion.”
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry of the Gen-
eral Society addressed the meeting. Said
she had enjoyed very much listening to
the song of our aged lady. Spoke of her
kindergarten work and of the enjoyment
she has in that work. Referred to the in-
fluence mothers and teachers have on the
minds of their children. Parents must listen
to the childish talk of their little ones, and
sympathize with their confidences, if they
would claim the same privilege later in their
lives. Told the story of the temptation and
the gradual downfall of a most beautiful
young girl, whom she had recently seen in
death. Warned fathers and mothers against

[Column 2]
allowing their boys and girls to go away
from home without a proper person to
accompany them. Keep them from tempta-
tion, and you will never be obliged to draw
them back; children’s lives are affected more
by the influence of parents than by what is
said to them. Example goes much farther
than words. Spoke of a number of interest-
ing things she had seen and heard in the
Juvenile court in Ogden; and of the soul
hunger of boys and girls for love and sym-
pathy; felt thankful for the struggles of this
life, as well as the blessings. Told the story
of the woman with the cross. Said to each
one of us is given an individuality that no
other can assume. It is God-given and
given to each of us to enable us to perform
our mission in life.
	Miss Ida Archibald rendered a solo enti-
tled “Love divine.”
	President Edward J. Wood spoke very
highly of those of the sisters who have trav-
eled so far from their ranches and towns to
attend this special conference, after having
attended their regular conference but a few
days ago, and mentioned our beloved Sister
Rhoda Hinman having been baptized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. “A good Relief So-
ciety is a great support to the bishopric of
any town, or ward. May we never tire in
having a constant watch-care over our chil-
dren. Let us live a part of their lives for
the future of this work depends upon the
kind of boys and girls we have today. Sister
Millie Matkin gave a recitation entitled,
“The Martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and his Brother Hyrum.”
	President Mary J. Hinman felt to thank
the brethren and sisters for their presence
today appreciated very much the presence of
our visiting sisters from headquarters, who
have given us what we needed.
	Sister Nellie Pitcher felt the spirit of
blessing resting upon her and proceeded to
bless the sisters and congregation through
the gift of tongues. The interpretation was
given by Missionary Elizabeth Hammer.
	Closed by singing, “Do what is right.”
Benediction by Elder J. A. Hammer.
		JANE W. BATES, Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The first legislation resulting from the
adoption of the woman suffrage amendment
to the Washington Constitution, was
brought up six days after the election, when
a bill was introduced in the City Council of
Seattle to forbid smoking in polling places
at general or special elections.
	The purpose of the proposed ordinance,
we are told, is to make conditions about the
election booths more attractive to women
who may wish to vote, or who may preside
as election officials.
	When Massachusetts granted school suf-
frage to women, in 1879, an ordinance was
straightway passed in Boston, forbidding
smoking at the polls. Far from destroying
chivalry, equal suffrage promotes it.—
Woman’s Journal, A. S. B.
	The determination of certain heads of de-
partments at Washington to employ only
men stenographers is a matter not likely
to escape the attention of the woman suf-
fragists, or to be forgotten by them when
they attain power in politics,—Buffalo
Courier.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RECOMPENSE.
I care not when night comes on
	Or how the storm may rage,
If God my Light in darkness is;
	His peace my soul engage.
		He will be there!
I care not when sorrows come
	And grief to rend my soul—
If He my comfort e’er will be,
	And keep me in His fold.
		My cross He’ll bear!
I care not when sickness racks
	And fills my days with pain.
If He with hope will buoy me up
	Perchance of health again,
		His will to do.
But if His wisdom rules it so,
	My chastening shall extend—
I’ll love and trust Him thro’ it all
	And to His will I’ll bend.
		O keep me true!
I care not when death draws near
	If only I can know
His hand will safelv guide me o’er
	And keep me while I go.
		He will sustain!
And when at last, my journey o’er
	I’m safe from pain and sin,
I care not, if I can be
	Beside Him in Eternity;
		My God my King!
				—Hattie C. Jensen.


RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS.
	On Saturday, October 29th, 1910, the
Halifax Branch Relief Society held their an-
nual sale of work. An excellent tea was
provided, also a splendid program, which
was very ably rendered. The room was
crowded, about one hundred and fifty saints
and friends being present. The sum of about
£10 was realized, which will be used to re-
lieve the wants of the sick and needy in the
branch.
	The Relief Society of the Belfast branch
(Irish conference) gave a party at the Meet-
ing Hall, 40 Donegal Street, on Hallowe’en.
The elders were invited to be present. All
had a splendid time. An impromptu pro-
gram was rendered, after which delicious re-
freshments were served, conspicuous among
which was a surprise pie, made of cold pota-
toes and mustard, furnished by the elders.
Searchers for curious facial expressions, had
they been present, would have been amply
rewarded for their attendance.
	On Saturday evening, October 29th, 1910,
a very successful and entertaining social was
held at the Latter-day Saints’ Chapel, Ne-
ville Street, Middleton Road, Oldham (Man-
chester conference), for the purpose of pro-
curing means with which to purchase forms
for the meeting-room. It was held jointly
by the Manchester and Old ham branches
respectively. There were about one hundred
and fifty saints and friends present, the net
proceeds being £2 5s. 9d. There were many
excellent numbers on the program, each per-
son rendering the part in a pleasing and
satisfactory manner. All present expressed
themselves as having enjoyed the program
exceedingly.
	On Saturday, October 29th, 1910, was
witnessed the largest gathering of its kind
ever held by the members of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
Keighley branch. The occasion was a con-
cert prepared by the elders, and a pie sup-
per kindly given by Sister Elijah Midgley
of the Relief Society. The hall was filled to


overflowing with saints and investigators,
many of whom were at an assembyl of the
Latter-day Saints for the first time. All
seemed highly satisfied, and many expressed
a desire to come again. The proceeds, £1
18s., will be applied on our piano account.
	The Relief Society of the Gainsboro
branch (Hull conference) gave a very nice
social on November 7th, 1910, at Vamplews
Hall. More than one hundred saints and
friends were present. Several of the friends
donated their services free, both with the
program and also with accommodations. Re-
freshments were served and a very enjoyable
time had, and great credit is due those who
had the undertaking in hand, for it was a
decided success. The money received will
be used to buy material for the Relief So-
ciety.—Millennial Star.


HOW THE VOTE WAS WON.
	STATE OF WASHINGTON.
	Miss Adella M. Parker writes from Seat-
tle, Nov. 9, to the Woman’s Journal, Bos-
ton.
	“It was a great victory.
	“The women at the polls were wonder-
fully effective. Many young women, many
middle-aged women and white-haired grand-
mothers, too, stood for hours handing out
the little reminders. One was a girl of 13,
and one a grandmother in a wheeled chair,
the mother of a former councilman.
	“It rained our gentle, but very insistent
kind of rain; and the men were so solicitous!
They kept dragging us off to get our feet
warm, or trying to, or bringing us chairs to
sit in, or offering to hand out our ballots
while we took a rest.
	“One woman would not go into the poll-
ing place as invited, because it was against
the law, but persisted, in spite of all the ap-
peals of the men, in standing in the rain till
she was soaked; and that precinct went five
to one for suffrage.
	“Another young woman had a piece of
carpet fetched for her by a voter for her to
stand on. The men were everything to be
desired, real Westerners, shall I say? and
they voted for us two to one, all over the
State.
	“Women would not leave their places un-
til relieved, even for lunch, for fear of ’los-
ing a vote.’ The whole thing appealed to
the men irresistibly. It was the first really
tangible evidence they had had of the strong
desire to vote on the part of the women,—
an ocular demonstration—and it told in the
count.
	“Everybody seems positively happy. No
women but are glad. Even those few who
have coquetted with anti-suffrage ideas are
now inquiring if they may vote for presi-
dent, and the men are all smiling blandly, as
if they had all voted the same way.
	“The newspapers stood by us nobly. The
press of the whole State has helped us; and
I shall always feel personally grateful to
Mrs. Catt and Alice Stone Blackwell for
their generous gifts of money, and to Mar-
tha Gruening and Mrs. Minnie J. Reynolds
for their invaluable personal aid, and to the
dear Woman’s Journal for the great work it
has done helping to educate the press of the
State. Those Journals have been precious,
every one of them, and they have helped out
our ‘propaganda by literature’ wonderfully.

[Column 2]
	“We have won in a clean, educational
campaign, and the men feel as happy about
it as we do, realizing that they have done a
just and gracious thing, and that they have
simply been expected to do it, as soon as it
was drawn to their attention.
	“We are receiving praise from all quar-
ters for the kind of campaign we put up—
no personalities, no boasting of what we
would do, no promises, no meddling with
other issues, just ‘Votes for Women,’
straight through, because it is just and rea-
sonable, and because it has everywhere been
found expedient.
	“In some polling places women were given
places, and in some our little ‘Don’t forget
to vote for the Amendments’ were tacked
up on the wall.
	“We had a difference of opinion as to just
what was the best reminder, so had three
kinds printed. I enclose them.
	“The university precinct went in favor of
suffrage three and a half to one; the City
Hall precinct, two to one; one precinct,
twenty to one—all in Seattle.”


The Swedish Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion is making elaborate preparations for
lavish entertainment of the International
Congress to be held in Stockholm, June 12
to 17, 1911.
	The Scandinavian countries lie somewhat
outside the usual line of tourist travel, but
no countries in Europe repay one more gen-
erously for a visit than do these picturesque
northern lands. Many a traveler has pro-
nounced Stockholm the most beautiful cap-
tal in Europe, and one more modest de-
clares that, if this is not true, it at least oc-
cupies the finest position of any European
capital city. It is built on islands where the
waters of the Maren, often called “The Lake
of a Thousand Isles,” meet those of the
Baltic, and form a broad, deep bay, studded
with innumerable forest clad, rocky islets.
It is rare that scenery so near the busy cen-
tre of life retains its untouched freshness as
is true of the surroundings of Stockholm.
	Max Nordau in writing of Stockholm de-
clares that “the Almighty must have select-
ed a section of Scottish lake scenery, a por-
tion of the sea coast of Naples, a few of the
islands of Hyeres, some granite hill-tops
from the Ural chain, and then, shaking them
well together in a large caldron, poured the
mixture out upon the banks of the bay of
the Baltic, where they form the capital of
the kingdom of Sweden and bear the name
of Stockholm.”—C. C. C. Woman’s Jour
nal.


NOTES AND NFWS.
	A crowded drawing room meeting was
held by Lady Brassey on Tuesday, to hear
Mrs. Parkhurst speak on woman suffrage,
Lord Brassey being in the chair. The fol-
lowing were present: The Duchess of Marl-
borough, Countess Torby, Prince and Prin-
cess Munster, Lady Wemyss, Lord and
Lady Wolverton, Lady Essex, Lady Tweed-
dale, Lord and Lady Richard Cavendish, the
Dowager Lady Arran, Sir Donald Mac-
kenzie Wallace, the Hon. Mrs. Bernard Mal-
let, Major the Hon. and Mrs. Sackville
West, Lady Acheson and Colonel Gathorne-
Hardy.—London Times.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	NOVEMBER, 1910


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	The birthday anniversary of the Presi-
dent of the Church of Latter-day Saints,
which occurred on Sunday, November 13,
was kept very quietly in the family, and
some friends of the President who are fa-
miliar in the home at the Bee Hive, called
to pay their respects and congratulate the
President, wishing him every blessing life
can offer to one so dear to the hearts of the
people, who sustain him as Prophet, Seer
and Revelator, and who in the bonds of
brotherly and sisterly love hold him in that
good fellowship that knows no limit.
	That President Smith is beloved by this
people among whom his life has been spent
in loving service, needs no individual testi-
mony. Very little, comparatively speaking,
has ever been said concerning the birthday
anniversary of President Joseph F. Smith,
and it is high time the children of this peo-
ple were informed of the birthday, that they
may observe and keep in mind this memor-
able day, and do honor to the great leader,
who is using all his time, energy, and talents
for the furtherance of the work of the Lord,
in which he has been engaged all his life
long from earliest childhood, as every one
knows who is acquainted with Church his-
tory.
	When a very little boy, previous to his
father’s martyrdom, he was almost con-
stantly near his beloved father, and still re-
members, although so very young, many
stirring incidents in which his father took
part on memorable occasions that are thrill-
ing with interest, relating to the times when
this people were passing what might be
termed a turning point in the lives and
events of the most remarkable religious per-
secution in the history of any people in
America.
	It is safe to say that no other President
since the Prophet Joseph Smith has such a 
unique personality and a life so rich in that
which constitutes strength of character, wis-
dom and knowledge of affairs within and
without the Church, as our present Prophet
Seer and Revelator.
	Joseph F. Smith is the only President
born in the Church. This in itself is a sig-
nificant fact, cradled in Mormonism, inher-
iting it pre-natally, fed and nurtured with
the wisdom that comes through obedience 
to the word of the Lord, from the very first.
Coming to his own at a time when extra-

[Column 2]
ordinary events were transpiring; full of
zeal in the cause of truth and righteousness,
and possessed of that indomitable courage
that makes for progress and the establish-
ment of monuments of renown, to stand as
waymarks to the latest generations of time,
that all who follow him may point to with
pride, for they herald forth the dawn of
peace and good will to all mankind, and re-
late to a period of time when the watchword
of the people was significant of the greatest
epochs of the last days, the fulness of times,
when all things are to be gathered into one
to prepare for the coming of the Messiah.
	The children are taught to reverence
Mother Lucy Smith as the mother of the
greatest prophet of this dispensation; added
to this they should be taught that Mother
Lucy Smith is the grandmother of the pres-
ent Prophet, Joseph F. Smith, and by no
means should they be allowed to forget the
mother of Joseph F. Smith, our present
Prophet—Mary Fielding Smith, who en-
dured toil, privation, and hardship, and
whose courage and heroism was equal to
that of any man of her time, or to the great
women of the heroic past.
	Teach his history  to the children of our 
own time.


[Column 1]
		THANKSGIVING.
	Thanksgiving in November dates back
to an early period in the history of Amer-
ca. The earliest one known on this side of
the Atlantic was appointed by William
Bradford, Governor of Plymouth, in 1621,
and history tells us that the great old Gov-
ernor issued the mandate in form: “Through
virtue of vested power ye shall gather with
one accord and hold in the month of No-
vember Thanksgiving unto the Lord.”
	If any people have reason to offer thanks-
giving to the Lord this people gathered here
in these mountain vales had good reason on
the day set apart this year. 
	Not that we as a community had every-
thing we wanted, but we had very recently
gained a victory that was most gratifying
to a large number of people and though
the utmost quiet was observed outwardly,
there was rejoicing more or less in the hearts
of those that knew what it meant to the vi-
cinity of Salt Lake.
	In this matter women may be counted as
having stood courageously for the right and
rights of the ballot in their hands, and
thankful, indeed, are the women of Utah of
whatever creed or party that they have equal
suffrage, and a voice in matters pertaining
to “life, liberty and the pursuit of happi-
ness.” And even if the women of this fair
state have not yet attained to all the rights
and privileges they are in reality entitled to,
they have the opportunity of getting educat-
ed in matters pertaining thereto, and by and
bye, for it is sure to come, they will be bet-
ter qualified to take the places assigned to
them in the gift of the people.
	Perhaps the reader may say, What has
this to do with Thanksgiving? and we an-
swer, Very much indeed! The women of
Utah, so far as the writer knows, have been
thankful for the suffrage ever since it was
accorded them through the state Constitu-
tion, and before, when the Territorial Legis-
lature granted it in February, 1870.
	When one considers the great efforts be-
ing made in the several states in this free
country, and the desperate struggles in for-

[Column 2]
eign lands, one need be exceedinly thankful
to those noble, generous men, who were
among the first to pave the way to equal
political and civic liberty to women without
discriminating; but this article is not a dis-
sertation on equality of sex or any other po-
litical question, but merely a few thanksgiv-
ing thoughts applicable to all men and
women who reverence a Supreme Being,
who holds in His hands the lives and des-
tinies of all nations, kindreds, tongues and
peoples.
	Thanksgiving is a day on which the needy,
the sick and the sorrowful should be remem-
bered with real substantial gifts, that would
fill their hearts with joy and gratitude, and
in no other way can people who have where-
with to give make an offering so acceptable
as thanksgiving to the Lord as by giving to
those in need of assistance, not waiting for
Christmas or some other festive occasion,
but with the true spirit of benevolence and
loving kindness, give of the means you have
so abundantly received from the Lord.
	“Kind words are more than coronets,”
So said one of the great poets, but through
the perfect system of charity under the
Church management of this people, the
Bishopric and the Relief Society, the needy
are seldom neglected, and never, we hope,
forgotten; though many are unwilling to
receive help when offered, yet there are in-
genious and delicate ways of bestowing help
that cannot possibly give offence.
	The Latter-day Saints have the greatest
reason for thanksgiving to the Lord for
His manifold blessings to them, and espe-
cially for their homes and habitations in
these mountain vales, and the freedom they
enjoy under the flag of their country, while
tyranny and oppression still exist among
many nations, against which they are as yet
struggling, and find no way of escape from
the intolerance.


“UPHOLD THE RIGHT.”
Though few may praise, or help, or heed us,
	Let us work on, with head, or heart, or 
		hand;
For that we know the future ages need us.
	And we must help our time, to take its
		stand.				—R. A. V.

	How many there are who complain and
grow discouraged on life’s journey, because
they do not get the help, the encourage-
ment they feel is needed in some good work
undertaken; and often we hear it said, Well,
we cannot get the support of the people in
this or that good work, and it is for the
public good; and we shall be compelled to
let it go—and so many good efforts made
have been cast aside—and those first deeply
interested have not had the courage needed
to pull through. What a blessing it is to
have great moral courage. We are as a 
people very proud of our loyalty to each
other, and, generally speaking, our people
have been able to stand together, and in this
course we are sure to gain ground, and often
overcome great obstacles, that oppose our
onward progress, but not always; now and
then some few get an idea that they know
better how things are going to turn than the
majority know, and instead of trusting to 
the people as a whole, get a small following
and are so confident they are right, and sure
of ultimate success, that they win to their
cause those who are unwary and easily per-
suaded, yielding to entreaty without mak-
ing themselves sure before hand.


It is good to know one is right, and there
are sure ways of knowing—there is always
“the still, small voice” within one’s own
breast—if one cultivates his conscience; 
the first whisperings, when one is in doubt
and at times when one is not in doubt—but
we were not proposing to analyze this sub-
ject, only it is quite apparent all Latter-
day Saints who are diligent in season and
out of season, desire to be on the right side
of all important questions, consequently 
when grave matters are pending it is ob-
viously a duty to be on the right side.
	Watch the signs of the times, weigh care-
fully the propositions made by those who di-
rect affairs for the city and state or the na-
tion, seek for wisdom from the Lord as well
as from the best sources of worldly knowl-
edge. All these things are waymarks, but 
one may have to pick and choose when
traveling on life’s journey as when travel-
ing over country, new and strange, where
there are cross-roads and by-paths, and
sometimes it transpires one has to decide for
himself which road will take him on the 
way to his “desired haven.” In such a case
one can turn back when he finds he has
gone the wrong way; that is fortunate--
but so on the journey of life—if one can
only see he or she has gone wrong; but
how hard it is sometimes “to see ourselves
as others see us.” And this is where great
moral courage is necessary, and true no-
bility of character is displayed—when one
is willing to right the mistake. How
many great ones have fallen, who might
have been “bright and shining lights” had
they been willing to retract, or turn back
after departing upon the wrong way, sim-
ply, perhaps, through an error in judgment,
or being over confident in certain measures
that confront the people and need radical
treatment in their opinion, but when the 
men and women are cautious, and do not
rush blindly into difficult places, but soberly
ponder when the time is ripe for action.
The old proverb, “Fools rush in where an-
gels dare not enter,” is applicable at times
when strenuous help is needed, but the man
who watches most carefully and solicitously
that which will be “the greatest good to the
largest number” is the one to lead; when a
ship is in danger, who gives the orders, the
man at the helm, who sees the danger, who
is in charge of the lives and safety of those
on board, his word is the signal--everyone
familiar with leadership knows that when 
dangers threaten there need be no hesitancy
about the methods of standing united in de-
fending the right for righteousness sake.
Let us hope and pray that hereafter, when
there is so much at stake the loyal people
may take the right course to obtain the vic-
tory—the triumph of right that means suc-
cess to those who have peopled the country
and made “the desert to blossom as the
rose.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A DELIGHTFUL BANQUET. 
	An enjoyable afternoon party was given
at the handsome home of Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph E. Hyde, in this city on Friday,
November 18, 1910, dinner served at 3 p m.
Only a dozen guests were invited. The
table was daintily arranged, and choice au-
tumn flowers added to the beauty and ar-
tistic appearnce of the sumptuous repast.
The guests were profuse in their praise of


the delicious viands, and the little party
presented a beautiful picture grouped as they
were, and their faces were a study to an
observer, really had there been a character
reader present, he might have had an object
lesson worth while.
	The hostess stated very graciously that
the guest of honor was Aunt Emmeline B.
Wells, and it was her party, but partly in
honor of her dear departed Aunt Mary Ann
Hyde, to whom she alluded most tenderly,
and she had greatly admired the genuine
friendship that united heart and hand these
two women, Mrs. Wells and Aunt Mary
Ann Hyde in days gone by.
	Toasts were expected of all the guests,
but it proved to be very informal and the
tone of the remarks made, became remi-
niscent and many beautiful tributes were
paid to the great women of the past.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose who had been
abroad some years, spoke interestingly of
her travels in Great Britain and on the con-
tinent, and later Elder C. W. Penrose and
the genial host arrived, and added a few
words of special interest, giving brilliant
touches to the more sombre conversation;
and altogether the affair proved to be an
intellectual feast most refreshing to those
present—really red-letter day. Mrs. Hyde
is a charming hostess and her cordial hos-
pitality knows no limit.


JULIA WARD HOWE.
How often, when she entered, did we rise
And stand in waiting hundreds till she passed
Serenely to her place, from whence she cast
Such gracious looks on all around, from eyes
Undimmed as yet by age, so kind, so wise;
That awe mixed with our love, and when at last
Her low voice broke the silence, hearts beat fast,
Stirred by the solemn words we hoard and prize!
O Sibyl-eyes, O eloquent white hair,
Ye helped the burning message find its goal
In our true breasts; for not in easeful age
Wast thou content to dwell; thy brooding care
Yearned over all, O mother of the soul
That thou hast wakened to its heritage.
						—Ruth B. Chenery.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
	By Emmeline B. Wells, President.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, Oct, 25, 1910.
Madame President, Officers and Members
		of the National Council of Women of
		the United States,
	DEAR FRIENDS: The Relief Society as it
was originally named was first organized in
Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17th, 1842, with
eighteen members, including the officers. Of
this select company, who met together on
that memorable day, 68 years ago, not one
is now living; the last surviving member was
our late President, Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith (who passed away September 20,
1910). Mrs. Smith was then a young
woman, nineteen years of age; she wit-
nessed every phase of the Society’s growth
from the very commencement, being one of
its founders, and lived to see it increase in
membership to over forty thousand, and
like a tree, its branches have spread abroad,
bearing fruit in many lands and among
many peoples.
	The object of the Society is really what
the name implies: relief from want, assist-
ance to the needy, relief from ignorance
through simple forms of helpfulness, charity
for all, of all creeds and races. Philan-

[Column 2]
thropic endeavors, temporal, spiritual, edu-
cational, and industrial, entering into every
department of home and of public life, from
those early years until the present time, as
far as the day and age admitted of woman’s
fitness and efforts for humanity.
	It would be quite impossible to tell in
one brief article of the many industrial lines
of work that have been undertaken in the
interest of woman’s advancement.
	The Society is so perfectly and system-
atically organized that it has been compar-
atively easy, to reach every individual mem-
ber when necessary in any important move-
ment for the public good.
	The Society consists of over 750 distinct
organizations, with executive officers in each
to transact business and plan work, and all
these are under one general head or depart-
ment, who are constantly in receipt of in-
formation and as it were in touch with every
phase of the work undertakne in each sep-
arate organization. One of the underlying
principles is to teach those women who need
assistance how to help themselves and to
give employment to the unemployed, when-
ever possible.
	Many lines of work have been undertaken
and carried on sucessfully, certainly there
have been failures, but never discourage-
ments, but in most cases “Try Again” has
been the motto.
	There are organized branches of this So-
ciety in more than twenty states in the
Union, in Canada and Mexico, in Great Brit-
tain and Ireland, the Netherlands, in Ger-
many and Switzerland, in Norway, Sweden
and Denmark, in Australia, New Zealand,
the Sandwich and Society Islands, and in
South Africa.
	The benefits resulting cannot be estimat-
ed: social, industrial, economic, educational,
in the best sense of the word. The training
of nurses in order to have skilled help in
charity cases, and as an employment for
young women and a preparation for moth-
erhood—a mother’s department in every dis-
tinct branch of the great whole, the gather-
ing of grain, and storing it against a time
of need—building of houses for Society pur-
poses, and such industries as silk culture
have been fostered, nurtured and maintained
and desirable results achieved.
	There is scarcely any enterprise undertak-
en by women that has not been helped by
this organization, which reaches into every
home and hamlet. Perhaps no other organ-
ization enters as fully into the domestic de-
partment of the realm of home life as does
the teaching and developing of the principles
embodied in the Relief Society.
	We feel this report is inadequate to the
subject and yet it covers the ground. One
of our mottoes in this work has always been
“Charity never faileth,” and it is the most
applicable to relief work of any phrase in the
English vocabulary.
	Since our last report to the National
Council, this Society has moved into its own
headquarters where also other woman’s or-
ganizations are located—the Y. L. M. I. A.,
which is auxiliary to the Council also, and
the officers will take great pleasure in re-
ceiving calls from the women from all parts
of the world, and especially the members and
friends of the National and International
Councils with which these two organizations
are affiliated.
	The most important and significant event
that has transpired since our last report is
the recent demise of our beloved and hon-


ored President, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
whose name has been inscribed on your roll
call of Presidents for the last nine years.
Her death occurred on Tuesday morning,
September 20, 1910, after an illness of three
months. Her name was known throughout
the world, and her beautiful and blameless
life stands as an example worthy of emula-
tion, and an incentive to all women in every
land to go and do likewise.
	Mrs. Smith was active and efficient in
many directions and had learned in her long
experience, the richest and best lessons of
wisdom from the open book of life itself.
	The best description that can be given of
this great woman in brief is portrayed in
the following verse:

			A PORTRAIT.
A queenly woman, statuesque and grand,
Regal in manner, courteous in command,
Of reverential presence, and her face
Radiantly fair, beaming with hope and grace,
Her vibrant life one long sweet symphony
Of duty, love and soulful harmony.
						—E. B. W.

	With greetings and congratulations from
the Woman’s Relief Society to the National
Council, and the earnest hope of a greater
future and larger fellowship and good will
and love and the promotion of all the lofty
principles for which the Council stands, we
are faithfully and loyally yours for every
righteous cause in the way of progress.
			Fraternally yours, etc.,
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		PIONEER STAKE.
	Minutes of morning session of Pioneer
Stake Relief Society conference, held in the 
Stake Hall, October 28, 1910, President
Annie Wells Cannon presiding. Com-
menced by singing, “Come, Dearest Lord.”
Prayer by President Wm. McLachlan.
Singing, “Let us oft speak kind words.”
	Stake well represented and reported by
the President. The wards were all in a 
good condition, fully organized with a band
of sisters who were working for the benefit
of the people. It was reported that there
was not much sickness at present, but sev-
eral cases of needy whom the Relief So-
ciety were looking after. Several of the 
wards have appointed sisters to look after
the different departments of work.
	Sister Jacobs of Pleasant Green said that
she had noticed that the best workers they
had in Relief Society were the young moth-
ers, after they had once become interested;
and to get them acquainted with this work,
she had found that the best means was to 
personally invite these young women to the
meetings and give them something special
to do.
	The President reported that there was a
slight increase in the attendance and the
work progressing. 
	Solo, “One sweetly solemn thought,” by
Minnie Poulton.
	Counselor Claire L. Clawson spoke on
the “Testimony Meeting.” Commence on 
time and make metings interesting by oc-
casionally introducing music and reading. 
Invite young sisters to do something. Have
hymns selected before meeting time. Re-
lief Society to look after the Sacrament ta-

[Column 2]
ble, under the direction of bishopric also
the drapery of meeting houses for use of
funerals. Was pleased with reports of sis-
ters, and felt to encourage the Relief Soci-
ety workers. 
	Sister Romania B. Penrose of the Gen-
eral Board spoke of her labors in the Re-
lief Society while in Europe. Said that
these organizations were increasing and the
sisters were doing a good work, as through
them many doors are opened to our elders.
Relief Society also a great help to the mis-
sionaries in helping look after the poor. Six
to seven hundred women of England inter-
ested in Relief Society and are all united.
Urged the young women to learn nursing 
and how to care for the dead. Prayed that 
the Lord would bless the Relief Society
workers in the Pioneer Stake.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon of the Gen-
eral Board expressed her pleasure at being 
able to attend our conference. Encour-
aged the sisters to strive to go ahead and
not be content to stand still, said she knew 
that in times of sickness, a visit from some
of the Relief Society sisters was very help-
ful and through the faith that was mani-
fested, it was all that was needed to raise
up the afflicted. Thought that if we all had 
the desire, we could get to our meetings,
no matter where we lived.
	President A. W. Cannon said that she
was proud of Pioneer Stake Relief Soci-
ety; they were a noble band of sisters.
“We are made up of wage earners in Pio-
neer Stake, but we have a fine record in our
charity work. Told of the duties of moth-
ers to their children; and of the object in
preparing the present Outlines. Time is 
about up for our morning session, and we
hope that all will be here for the after-
noon meeting and that many more will at-
tend. Asked a blessing on all Relief Soci-
ety workers in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	Closed by singing, “The Spirit of God.”
	Benediction by Sister Mary A. Hadley.
	Afternoon session opened by singing,
“Our Mountain Home so Dear.” Prayer by
Sister Bosina Lambert. Singing, “Jesus, I
my cross have taken,” by Primary children
from the Twenty-sixth Ward.
	The General and Stake Officers were pre-
sented and unanimously sustained.
	Sister Cannon greeted the sisters. Re-
ferred to the extremes of fashion and un-
becoming behavior among the young people
and felt it was the mother’s duty to see
that their young people do not overdress,
and to look after their conduct. “Sisters,
try not to burden yourselves with needless
work; be more moderate in dress and thus
 save time to spend with your children. En-
tertain them with stories from your own 
life, your parents and the Pioneers; and thus
make them acquainted with the history of
their ancestors.” Expressed the joy she
felt in working among the sisters of Relief 
Society.
	Sister Penrose said, “We can’t hear good
advice often enough. Glad to meet again
with the sisters. Relief Society sisters ac-
complishing a good work. Had been in the 
world, but no place like Zion. Churches in
the world are being depopulated. Spoke of
the different customs among the churches 
in Europe. “Many people of the world do 
not understand parts of the Bible; call
them mysteries. Through the Spirit of 
God these things are made clear to the Lat-
ter-day Saints. Mothers should be proud

[Column 3]
if they have sons carrying the Gospel to
the world. “Felt that Americans do not
rejoice enough for their liberty. Related
some experiences of our misionaries, where
they had been imprisoned and even banished
for the sake of their religion. Described
some of the places and scenes they had vis-
ited. Urged the sisters to do their duties
as Relief Society workers, and hoped that
the people would be united and not let our
enemies get control over our beautiful
homes here in the mountains.
	Counselor Louie P. Giauque had greatly
enjoyed the conference thus far. Felt it a 
pleasure to raise her voice in song and
prayer with her sisters. “Latter-day Saints
have no time to waste as there is work for
all.” Spoke on “The Sewing Meetings.”
Open by singing and prayer, and close with
prayer when possible. Commence at 2 p.m.
and sew perhaps until 5 o’clock, instead of 
a few working hard all day. Introduce a 
little music and reading in sewing meetings.
Sewing teachers prepare work for the
younger women who do not care for quilt-
ing or sewing carpet rags. “Prayed the
Lord would bless us in our work.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, General Pres-
ident said it was very beautiful to meet
on such a lovely day, and to see so many
present. Pleased to see President Mc-
Lachlan. Felt it an honor to be associated
with men who hold the Priesthood. Relief 
Society the first organization of women that
there is known anything about. This or-
ganization the mother of other organiza-
tions. Relief Society has done a wonderful
work among the women of the world. Re-
ferred to the sewing meeting and the good
that is there done for the poor in the way of
quilts and clothing. Felt that the people
should pray that they might do the right
thing pertaining to our government. In-
vited the sisters to visit the Relief Society
headquarters in the Bishop’s Building. Said
the last time she was here, President Bath-
sheba W. Smith was also present. Felt
that the Lord had spared the life of Sister
Smith to an advanced age so that she could
bear her beautiful testimony of the truth of 
this Gospel and of the Prophet Joseph 
Smith. There are only a few living now who
personally knew the Prophet and President
Brigham Young Sister Smith was anxious 
that the sisters keep up the old fashioned
ways in Relief Society; the teachers are the
backbone of this organization. Knew of sis-
ters who had visited their blocks as teachers
for forty years. Said she was sorry that 
she could not have been here this morning
to hear the reports of the wards. Had ex-
pected her counselors, Clarissa S. Williams
and Julina L. Smith to be present, but they
were detained on account of sickness. Urged
all to be faithful and introduce only those
things that are good and helpful; prayed the
Lord to bless us. 
	President Wm. McLachlan had enjoyed
the remarks of the sisters during this con-
ference. Bore testimony of the good work
of Sister Cannon and knew that her judg-
ment was good. Greatly enjoyed her visit-
ing with them at the ward conferences now
being held through the stake. Urged the 
sisters to bear their testimony to their chil-
dren. Felt to condemn the fashions among 
our people. “We do not need style if we
have the Spirit of the Gospel. Urged the
mothers to see that their girls are more mod-
est in their dress. Pleased with the work
the Relief Society sisters do among the sick


[Column 1]
and poor. “Better to give out a little more
means and do a little more work than let
some worthy soul go without. Do let us
call upon the Lord for His help; we cannot
do our whole duty without the help of God.”
Bore a strong testimony of the truthfulness
of this work. Said that it was his desire
to follow and stand by his leaders in all
things pertaining to our policies. Sister
Cannon announced that next Sunday would
be stake quarterly conference, and urged
the sisters to attend if possible. 
	Conference adjourned. Singing, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet.”
	Benediction by Sister Adelia Hoagland. 
				LILLIE F. SPERRY, Secy.

			SEVIER STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference convened
at Richfield, June 28, 1910, at 10 a. m., Pres-
ident Christine W. Sorensen presiding.
	President C. Sorensen spoke of the busy
time our conference is held. It is dangerous
for sisters to drive teams; horses are afraid
of automobiles. I love Relief Society work;
we are united in the Stake Board, and in vis-
iting we are united with the different boards. 
Let us continue and improve. We have Sis-
ter Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the General
Board with us. 
	Dr. Gledhill gave a lecture. In addressing
mothers, I have chosen the subject, “The
Child.” Spoke of wayward children. There
has been mismanagement, sometime in life,
also of physical and mental defects. Spoke
of pre-natal influence. Many are at disad-
vantage. Strong minds need strong bodies. 
Children are crowded through school, and
many nervous breakdowns follow too much
study. Don’t tax children too much while
growing. Spoke on nursing of children:
Mothers’ milk is most natural and best. We
must understand how to govern unruly chil-
dren. Meat is a bad article of diet, influ-
encing child to be stubborn. Strong sea-
soned foods have an influence on children,
inclining them to strong drink in later years. 
Spoke of destroying confidence of our chil-
dren by one parent saying yes and another
saying no. The most important thing in life
is raising of our children. Lectured very in-
terestingly. 
	Song by Mrs. Josie Christensen, “Will it
be a joyful harvest, when I reap what I have
sown?”
	President Minnie Nebeker (Richfield 1st
Ward): Mother’s mission is a great one. 
We hurry too much in our lives, and don’t
take time to study our opportunities. Do
we appreciate our privileges, improve every
moment and each day and accomplish some-
thing, encourage our daughters to study
their mission, and educate ourselves in the
Gospel and teach the same to our children?
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of General
Board said Sister Emily Richards, who
came with her, had to go home on account
of sickness, also that our dear President
Bathsheba W. Smith, being very feeble, she
wished the sisters to pray for her. Enjoyed
the lecture by Dr. Gledhill, also minutes read
and all exercises of this morning. Spoke of
her extended trip through Europe. Encour-
aged mothers to tell boys of the Relief So-
ciety before going on missions. The Relief
Society work is the greatest and grandest
work of women in the world. Spoke of priv-
ileges and blessings of wives and mothers,
and of evils abroad. Let us indeed be help-
mates to our husbands. Invited all the sis-

[Column 2]
ters to visit the apartments in the Bishop’s
building. Song, “Earth with her ten thou-
sand flowers.”
	After benediction by Brother L. P. Jen-
sen, conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 
	Afternoon session commenced at 2 p. m.,
President C. Sorensen presiding. After
opening exercises the General and Stake of-
ficers were sustained unanimously. Sister
Mina Hansen gave a lecture on the Life of
Christ. Spoke of the parables and other
teachings of the Savior. The Gospel teaches
poor and lowly as well as the rich. Men-
tioned the good Samaritan. Every one in
need is our neighbor. 
	Counselor Mary E. Magleby had enjoyed
our conference thus far. In the lecture by
Dr. Gledhill, also the remarks by Sister
Farnsworth, many beautiful points were
brought out. Spoke of the Prophet Joseph
Smith as the greatest man in this dispensa-
tion. Let us use our time in adorning the
souls of our children and not so much their
bodies. 
	Song by Sister Bolinda Young, “Beyond
the gates of Paradise,” very beautifully ren-
dered. 
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth: “The Gos-
pel has the sublimest truths.” Spoke espe-
cially of our sustaining the Exponent also
spoke of the book, “The Life of President
Woodruff,” and said the Nurse Class had
been discontinued for this year, and later
other arrangements would be made. Thought
more care and love should be given our
children. Prayers learned at mother’s knee
will never be forgotten. She had seen the
original picture of “the Lord’s Supper,” in
Italy. Sister Farnsworth then spoke of sav-
ing grain; it will surely be needed; also
urged us to get up a plan of mothers’ work
for our stake. Asked the Lord to bless us
in all things, that we may be able to advance. 
	Sister Mary Swindle bore faithful testi-
mony, and spoke of many blessings. En-
couraged sisters to make average attendance
greater in future, and appreciate the priv-
ileges we have, and embrace all opportuni-
ties. 
	Brother Morton Jensen was satisfied with
the appointment to labor in the Relief Soci-
ety. Sisters are capable of doing their work. 
Am very much pleased with instructions giv-
en today. Mothers should teach their sons
so when asked in mission field to organize a
Relief Society, they would be able to do so. 
Spoke of the sisters in Denmark, holding
work meetings and gathering means to help
the poor. 
	Bishop Heber Christensen (Richfield 1st
Ward) said conditions to do evil are just as
great today as conditions to do good. Spoke
of duties of parents, also on keeping the
Word of Wisdom, and that a full percent-
age of good may be reported by parents in
future. Let us look after our girls and try
to keep them at home, and as Sister Farns-
worth suggested, that they may not attend
these dangerous places of amusement, and
all will have to help to bring about a better
condition for us. 
	Brother P. L. Jensen appreciated teach-
ings given. If we put these into practice
we will succeed. Am pleased to belong to
Relief Society of this stake. When we do
our duties we feel blessed; we also should
set an example worthy of imitation. 
	President Christine Sorensen: We have
had much good instruction; am thankful for
brethren being present, also appreciate the
visit of Sister Farnsworth, and the efforts of

[Column 3]
choir singing for us. Spoke of plan to be
gotten up for Sevier Stake. Encouraged Sis-
ters of different wards to attend Relief So-
ciety business meetings, asked the brethren
to assist the sisters to come to conference. 
Spoke on wheat question and Exponent. It
is our paper, and each Relief Society should
get a few more subscribers. “Lord bless us
that we all may return to our homes in safe-
ty,, and that Sister Farnsworth may accom-
plish her labors and return home in safety. 
	After singing and benediction conference
adjourned until further notice. 
	Singing, “God be with you, till we meet
again.” Benediction by Sister Louisiana
Hepler.
			MARY M. SWINDE, Secy.

		SNOWFLAKE STAKE. 
	The Relief Society Conference convened
at Snowflake, Aug. 19th, 1910, at 10 a. m.,
President Mary J. R. West presiding, Sister
Annie Kartchner conducting the singing. 
	Singing, “Our mountain home so dear.”
	Opening address of welcome by President
Mary J. R. West. She expressed her pleas-
ure at having Sisters Harker and Jensen of
the General Relief Society Board of Salt
Lake City, with us. Spoke of the great good
the Relief Society had done. Also of the
words of the Prophet Joseph Smith when
the Relief Society was organized. Each
mother should strive to gain the Lord’s
Spirit to guide them in rearing her chil-
dren. 
	Recitation, “God seen in the phenomena
of nature,” by Laura Baird. 
	Relief Society Officers of General Board
and Stake were unanimously sustained. 
	Showlow Ward Relief Society reported
by President Adah Owens. Snowflaks Re-
lief Society reported by First Counselor
Nellie M. Smith. St. Joseph Relief Society
reported by President Nina Porter. All were
in good condition Lakeside Relief Society
reported by Sister Margaret Larson The
sisters had been helping one another with
their sewing. Their scattered condition kept
them from holding meetings regularly in
winter. 
	Remarks by Sistetr Hattie Harker: She
was pleased to meet with us. All have their
cares, and can find excuses to remain home
from our meetings. Economize our work,
laundry, housecleaning, etc. This life is not
all and we must prepare ourselves for a
better one, by enlightening our minds every
day. Learn to be forgiving and charitable
toward our fellow men. Follow the exam-
ples Christ set for us. Prayed God to bless
all the sisters, and aid them with His S[-]irit
to guide and protect them. 
	Song by Sister Ellen Adair. 
	Remarks by Sister Hattie Jensen: She
was pleased to meet the sisters of the Snow-
flake Stake, and was delighted with our lit-
tle town. Spoke of the many inventions to
lighten work, since the Gospel was restored. 
How we should be thankful and take advan-
tage of these helps, and improve our minds
by study. How the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety should learn to love one another. Al-
ways think whatever comes is best, when we
are striving to live right. Cultivate cheer-
fulness. 
	Organ solo, by Sister Nellie Hunt. 
	Talk on Mother’s Work by Prest. May H.
Larson.
	Benediction by Sister Emma S. Smith.


Afternoon service convened at 2 p. m.,
President Mary J. R. West presiding
	Original paper, “Education of Women,”
by Sister Lulu J. Smith.
	Remarks by Sister Hattie Harker: There 
are other duties besides keeping the
home spotlessly clean. The mother who
passes away and leaves a family of honor-
able children will be remembered longer
than the mother who neglects her children
to keep her house clean. The children are
better off in the home circle than running
the streets. Protect your sons and daugh-
ters. Be companions with them, enter into
their pleasures, and see that they are inno-
cent pleasures.
	Music by President Ida Rhoten of Shum
way Ward.
	Taylor Relief Society reported by Sister
Ellen Bates, first counselor. The Society
was in good condition, but the average at-
tendance could be improved.
	Remarks by President Samuel F. Smith,
Commended the sisters of the Stake for
their loyalty. Also commented upon what
Sister Harker had said, “that all women
should be virtuous, and the greatest mis-
sion on earth is that of motherhood. Every
child she bore added beauty to her. Prayed
God to bless the mothers and all the Relief
Society workers.
	Remarks by Sister Hattie Jensen: She
also spoke of a woman’s great mission in
bearing and rearing children. The husband
should love and caress the wife and show
her that he loves her, and she in turn
should be devoted to her husband. As Lat-
ter-day Saints we should strive to be exam-
ples. Get your children’s confidence in child-
hood and grow to be companions with them.
Spoke of our girls being attracted by smooth
gentlemanly actions on account of their in-
nocence. Talk plain and teach them how
to protect their virtue and their bodies.
	If we live up to the requirements of the
Gospel we will be able to overcome all ob-
stacles.
	Remarks by President James M. Flake:
We always need encouragement to help us
do our duties at all times. Asked God’s
blessings upon our righteous efforts and up-
on our Relief Society.
	Closing remarks by President Mary J. R.
West: Was pleased to know that God had
blessed us so much. And thanked the sis-
ters who had come so far to visit us.
	Singing, “Praise to the man.”
	Prayer by Jenet M. Smith.
				LAURA BIRD,
					Stake Secretary.

			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Morning Session.
	The Oneida Stake Relief Society met in
annual conference on May 7, 1910, Presi-
dent Louisa B. Benson presiding.
	Singing, “O ye mountains high.”
	Prayer, Julia Roper.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere de-
sire.”
	Address of Welcome, Lucy D. Parkinson.
President Benson expressed disappointment
at not having any of the General Board,
present, but joy in seeing and meeting with
her sisters. Explained that it was due to a
misunderstanding of dates that we had no
visitors.
	A detailed sketch, giving all dates of or-
ganization, etc., of the R. S. of the stake was

[Column 2]
compiled and read by Sec. Phebe A. M.
McNiel.
	A ladies’ chorus was then rendered.
	The General Relief Society conference
was reported in brief by President Benson,
also gave a description of the Relief Society
rooms in the Bishop’s building.
	General and Local Relief Society officers
were sustained.
	Singing, “Sing we now at parting.”
	Benediction by Counselor Hannah Mick-
leson.
	Afternoon Session.
	The Stake Presidency and members of
High Council were present.
	Singing, “Come, let us anew.”
	Prayer, Elder F. W. Pratt.
	Singing, “Sometime, Somewhere.”
	A lecture on Tithing was given by Linda
N. Benson.
	Piano solo, Georgia Dailey.
	Recitation, Enoch Nelson, entitled “The
Ship,” by E. R. Snow.
	Counselor Jos. S. Geddes took up the lec-
ture and spoke on Tithing, also spoke on
Temperance.
	Ladies’ chorus, “Count your blessings.”
	Counselor Chas. D. Goslind spoke on the
system in the Church, dwelling briefly on
the first principles, emphasizing the Word of
Wisdom.
	President Geo. C. Parkinson spoke of the
carrying out of God’s purposes on earth,
dwelt on the evils of intemperance and the
cure thereof, spoke of the power of the
Priesthood, and in what ways a woman en-
joyed the blessings of the same.
	President Benson endorsed all that had
been said, gave words of encouragement to
all.
	Singing, “God be with you till we meet
again.”
	Conference adjourned for six months.
	Benediction, Elder Crosham.
				—PHEBE McNIEL, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PAST AND FUTURE.
Relief Society, ah well art thou named!
Thy mission has ever been one of succor;
Comfort and cheer have been thy watchwords;
To minister unto the afflicted to bind u[-] the
	broken hearted,
To aid the needy and the distressed in all the
	land.
Skillful have been the hands of thy workers,
To fashion fabrics unto useful forms.
Industry and thrift have characterized thy mem-
	bers;
Self-supported hast thou ever been; independent,
Giving thine assistance freely without return.
Not pleasure, but “pleasure in duty” has been
	thy motto,
And when the work of thy hands was com-
	pleted,
Thou hast not given thyself to idle recreation.
But ever hast thou turned thy mind to study.
For wisdom and knowledge hast thou sought.
In good books and in counsel together.
To what, then, shall we liken thee?
To a colony of ants, toiling indefatigably;
To a hive of bees gathering the golden honey
Of wisdom, and from thy precious store,
Sweetening the daily life of all around thee.
This has been thy history—one long labor of
	love.


And were this to compass thy destiny.
It were enough to send thy fame ringing down
	the ages.
But grander yet awaits thee:
Thou shalt in time to come assist in freeing
	woman
From all restraining shackles which yet en-
	circle her about;
Conventions, prejudices, senseless fashions,
And all that seems to raise her up but holds
	her down.
Preventing her from gaining and adorning.
The loftier summits of a nobler womanhood.
Thou shalt encourage, stren[-]then, lead her
Along the steep and thorny path which she
	must climb
To grander realms of thought, a broader vision,
A wider scope of action, clearer light.
Then, since the woman is the great regener-
	ative power,
Uplifted and renewed the race inevitabl[-] must
	be.
Thus with thy fellow organizations
As auxiliaries and aids unto the priesthood
Still must thou labor for the right,
The spread of truth, the welfare of the whole,
To usher in the great millennial day.
To social motherhood thou wilt yet attain,
Continuing the relief of physical distress.
Relief of moral suffering, social wrong, thou
	then wilt undertake.
Humanity calls upon thee to relieve the crush-
	ing burden
Of dire oppression and injustice which doth.
	weigh it down.
Then here upon thy glorious natal day,*
Whilst thou lookest back with joy and pride
Upon the toilsome path whhich thou hast climbed,
Forget not upward still to cast thine eye
To heights thou yet shalt scale, and, gaining,
Make clear the way to all who watch thy pro-
	gress,
Earth’s mighty sisterhood who must follow in
	thy steps.
—Mariam Adams Gudmunsen.

*March 17.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Harriet Taylor Upton’s book, “The
History of the Western Reserve,” has just
come from the press.
	From childhood Mrs. Upton has been in-
terested in the history of this northern part
of Ohio. She has collected valuable ma-
terial in the way of old manuscripts, and
has gathered quite a library on the sub-
ject. Mrs. Upton dedicates her work to
her father in the following words:
	“I dedicate these volumes to my father,
who believes that, since women as well as
men were and are the builders of our com-
monwealth, they are entitled to all its rights
and privileges. I am thankful to him for
having pointed out the way to me.”
	Mrs. Upton is well known to many Utah
women—and surely our people [---] in-
terested in a book written of the State where
so many of them lived and built a temple.
	Mrs. Charles B. Penrose, leader of the
Pennsylvania Association Opposed to Suf-
frage, is not at all disconcerted by the ac-
cession of suffrage in the State of Wash-
ington. “What the Western people think or
do matters very little in America,” she states.
“If it were Pennsylvania, that would be an-
other story.”—Philadelphia Press.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


<Sarah A. Burton>
										Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

