Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1911					No. 7.


CONTENTS.
The Relief Society (Copied from Record)	49
A Tender Tribute...............................M. F.	51
Woman’s Store...........................................	51
From Over the Sea.....................................	53
A Delightful Evening.................................	53
Social Notes for February............Camelia	54
Character..................Ethel M. Humphreys	54
Spare Moments...................Maria Francis	55
Relief Society Reports:—Ensign Stake....	55
	Milwaukee R. S.................................	56
	Malad Stake.......................................	56
In Memory of Susannah P. Boothe............	54
In Memoriam.............................................	51
Resolutions................................................	56
Notes and News.........................................	51
Editorial:—The Rising Generation...........	52
	“The Cities of the Sun”.....................	53
Poetry:—
	“Land Ahead”...............Eva E. Ames	49
	Love Much.......Ella Wheeler Wilcox	50
	“Eighty Years and More”
		..............Oliver Wendall Holmes	51


“LAND AHEAD.”
Our hearts are lifted from the dark,
Our hopes are knowledge verified,
Our doubts have drifted with the bark
That went to wreck on sorrow’s tide.
The thunderous boom of breakers high,
That washed a-deck our joys, one day,
Have lapsed to soothing murmurs, nigh
The heights that lift beyond the bay.

Unruffled, calm, the waters now
Sweep all our struggles hard aside,
There's "Land ahead”—our life boat’s prow
Her straight course knows, o’er ocean wide.
Eternal lights, electric, gleam
Athwart her way, and compass true
Points on to where life is no dream:
Did we build better than we knew?

The storms may rock and winds annoy,
Wild tempests fret, and rough the way;
But, lo! they never can destroy
The passage paid to future day!
I scorn your vexing, tides of earth—
Your strength is puny, quickly spent;
Heaven is our port, and all of worth
Bides there by shores of deep content.

Already is the anchor chain
Within our grasp. See! See! The way
Is radiant, pure, without earth stain,
And leads unto the perfect day.
Ah! blest fulfillment, grief and loss
Roll backward—are forever fast:
“Drop anchor—furl the fluttering sail—
For I am safe at home, at last.”
						—Eva E. Ames.


[Column 1]
	THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
(Copied from the Original Record.) 
ELIZA R. SNOW, SECRETARY. 
	By invitation of the President of the 
Church, a number of sisters convened in 
the Masonic Lodge Room on the 17th of 
March, 1842, President Joseph Smith, 
Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards
were present. 
	President Smith stated that the meeting 
was called for the purpose of making more 
complete, the organization of the Church, 
by organizing the women in the order of 
the Priesthood. 
	John Taylor was called to the chair and 
Willard Richards acted as secretary. Af-
ter singing and prayer a vote was taken

[Column 2]
to know if all were satisfied with each sis-
ter present, and willing to acknowledge 
them in good fellowship and admit them 
to all the privileges of the institution about 
to be organized. All being satisfied, the 
names of those present were taken as fol-
lows:
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira A.
Cowles, Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann 
Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook, Desdemona 
Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sarah M. 
Kimball, Elizabeth Jones, Leonora Taylor, 
Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Packard, Bathsheba 
W. Smith, Sophia Robinson, Philinda Her-
rick, Phebe M. Wheeler, Sophia R. Marks.
	President Smith then explained some of 
the duties that would devolve on members 
of the Society, said they could provoke the 
brethren to good works, look after the 
needs of the poor, and perform charitable 
acts. 
	Women must assist in correcting the mor-
als, and strengthening the virtues of the 
community. Said it is now in order for the 
sisters to elect a President to preside over 
the Society and let her choose two coun-
selors to assist in the duties of her office. 
He would ordain them and let them pre-
side just as the Presidency preside over 
the Church, and if they needed his instruc-
tion, they could ask and he would be pleased 
to give it from time to time. Let the Pres-
idency serve as a constitution and their de-
cisions become precedent for you to act
upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the
designs of the institution, let them be ap-
pointed and set apart as Teachers, Deacons, 
etc., are among us.
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved and So-
phia Packard seconded the motion that Em-
ma Smith be elected President of the So-
ciety, the vote was put by the chairman 
and pronounced unanimous.
	The President Elect made choice of Sar-
ah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney as her counselors.
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed secretary, 
and Phebe M. Wheeler assistant secretary, 
and Elvira A. Cowles, treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith read the revela-
tion to Emma Smith, from the Book of 
Doctrine and Covenants, and stated that 
she had been ordained at the time the reve-
lation was given to expound the Scriptures 
to teach, etc. He then read Scriptures to 
show that an elect lady is one elected to 
preside.
	By request of President Joseph Smith, 
Apostle John Taylor ordained Sarah M. 
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney to be 
counselors and assist President Emma
Smith in the duties of her office and share 
in the blessings pertaining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her 
former ordination, and blessed her to be a 
mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue, and 
to possess all the qualifications necessary 
to enable her to preside with dignity and 
give such instruction as may be requisite 
in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and Em-

[Column 3]
ma Smith and her counselors took the stand. 
	A lengthy discussion followed on the 
question, “What shall this Society be 
called?” Mrs. Cleveland and Whitney ad-
vocated the appropriateness of the name Re-
lief Society. John Taylor and Joseph 
Smith spoke in favor of the word Benevo-
lent. Emma Smith and E. R. Snow ar-
gued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice. 
The gentlemen withdrew their objection and 
a motion to adopt the name Relief Society 
was unanimously carried. 
	President Joseph Smith then said, “I now 
declare this Society organized with Presi-
dent and counselors. All who shall here-
after be admitted must be free from cen-
sure and admitted by vote. President Jo-
seph Smith laid down a five dollar gold 
piece to commence a Relief Society fund, 
and said, “What I do hereafter for char-
ity I shall do through this Society.” Sarah
M. Cleveland gave 12 1/2 cents; Sarah M. 
Kimball, $1.00; Emma Smith, $1.00; Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, 50 cents; Willard Rich-
ards, $1.00; John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the third meeting of the Society, 
March 31st, President Joseph Smith said 
the members of the Society must act in 
concert, or nothing can be accomplished. 
To move according to the ancient order of 
the priesthood this must be a select So-
ciety, separate from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting, April 28th, said he was 
present to speak upon the Priesthood as 
his instructions were intended only for 
members of the Society, he wished those 
not members to withdraw. After which 
he called attention to the 12th chapter of 
Corinthians, “Now concerning spiritual 
gifts,” etc., said the passage which reads, 
“No man can say that Jesus is the Lord 
but by the Holy Ghost should be trans-
lated, “No man knows,” etc. Continued the 
reading of the chapter, and gave instruc-
tions respecting the different offices and the 
necessity of every individual acting in the 
place allotted to him or her, and filling the 
office to which they were appointed.
	Spoke of the disposition of some to con-
sider the lower offices in the Church dis-
honorable and to look with jealous eyes on 
the position of others; said it was the non-
sense of the human heart, to aspire to posi-
tions not appointed of God, that it was bet-
ter for individuals to magnify their respec-
tive callings and wait patiently till God 
shall say to them, “Come up higher.” Said 
it was talked by members of the Society 
that some were not doing right in laying 
hands on the sick. If they had common 
sympathy, they would rejoice that the sick 
could be healed. The time had not been 
before when these things could be in their 
proper order. The Church is not now or-
ganized in its proper order and cannot be 
until the temple is completed. He referred
to the commission given to the ancient 
apostles, “Go ye into all the world,” no 
matter who believes these signs, such as 
healing the sick, casting out devils, should 
follow all that believe, whether male or fe-
male.


[Column 1]
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick,
let them do so, and let the good work roll
on. It is no sin for anybody to administer
to the sick that has faith, or if the sick
have faith to be healed by the administra-
tion.
	Reproved those that were disposed to
find fault; spoke at some length on the
difficulties he had had to surmount ever
since the organization of the Church, on ac-
count of aspiring men; said the same as-
piring disposition will be in this Society
and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would in-
struct the Society how to act according to
the will of God. He did not know that he
should have many opportunities of teach-
ing them, they were going to be left to
themselves, they would not long have him
to instruct them, the Church would not
have his instruction long and the world
would not be troubled with him a great
while, according to his prayer God had ap-
pointed him elsewhere.
	The congregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with
their confidence, their faith and their
prayers, those whom God had appionted to
lead. Said the keys are about to be given
to you, that you may be able to detect any-
thing false, as readily as the Elders. If
members of the Society become corrupt, you
must deal with them, the sympathies of the
heads of the Church have induced them to
bear with those that are corrupt, in conse-
quence of which all become contaminated,
you must put down iniquity and by your
good example provoke the Elders to good
works.
	If you do right there is no danger of go-
ing too fast, resist evil and there is no dan-
ger, neither God, man, angels or devils can
condemn those that resist everything that is
evil. As well might the devil seek to de-
throne Jehovah as that soul that resists
everything evil. You are now placed in a
situation where you can act according to
those sympathies which God has planted in
your bosoms. If you live in accord with
your privileges, angels cannot be restrained
from being your associates. Women, if
they are pure and innocent, can come into
the presence of God. If we would come
into the presence of God we must be pure.
The devil has great power, his ways are de-
ceptive. Do not be contentious, but let the
weight of innocence be felt, which is more
mighty than a millstone hung about the
neck. Meekness, love, purity, these are the
things that should magnify us. 
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the
vail will be rent, and the blessings of heaven
will flow down.
	After this instruction you will be more
responsible, it is an honor to save your-
selves, all are responsible for themselves.
	He then read the 13th chapter of Corin-
thians. “Though I speak with the tongues
of men,” etc.; said do not be limited in
your views with regard to your neighbors’
virtues, do not think yourselves more right-
eous than others. You must enlarge your
souls towards others, if you would do like
Jesus and carry your fellow creatures to
Abraham’s bosom. He had manifested
long-suffering and we must do the same.
Said, “Though we have the spirit of proph-
ecy,” etc. Though one should become
mighty and do great things, overturn
mountains, and then turn to do that which

[Column 2]
is evil, all former deeds would not save
them, but they would go to destruction. As
you increase in innocence, virtue and good-
ness, let your hearts expand, let them be
enlarged towards others, you must be long
suffering and bear with the faults and er-
rors of mankind. How precious the souls
of men! The Society is to get instruction
through the order which God has estab-
lished, through the medium of those ap-
pointed to lead, and I now turn the key to
you in the name of God, and this Society
shall rejoice and knowledge and intelli-
gence shall flow down from this time, this
is the beginning of better days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross
word, but let kindness, charity and love
crown your works. Do not envy sinners,
exercise mercy towards them.
	Let your administrations be confined
mostly to those around you. As far as
knowledge is concerned it may extend to
all the world. But your administrations
should be confined to the circle of your
acquaintance, and more especially the mem-
bers of the Society. Those ordained to
lead the Society are authorized to appoint
officers as the circumstances shall require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be
in your own tongue, do not indulge much
in the gift of tongues, or the devil will take
advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your com-
fort. But I lay this down as a rule, that if
anything is taught by the gift of tongues,
it is not to be received for doctrine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting women administering to the sick
by the laying on of hands, said it was ac-
cording to revelation, he never was placed
in similar circumstances, and never had
given the same instruction.
	At the ninth, meeting May 26th, the
Prophet read the 14th chapter of Ezekiel,
and said the Lord declared by that prophet
that the people should each one stand for
themselves and depend on no man or men;
in the state of corruption in the Jewish
Church that righteous persons could only
deliver their own souls. Applied it to the
present condition of the Church of Latter-
day Saints. If the people depart from the
Lord they must fall, they were depending
on the Prophet, hence there was darkness
in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the
Society. Be guarded in your speech; no
organized society can exist without giving
heed to this caution. All organized bodies
have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and
difficulties, the object is to make those not
so good equal with the good, and ever hold
the keys of power which will influence to
virtue and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove never
mention it a[---] then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and
the wrath of God will be turned away. God
designs to save the people out of their sins.
Jesus said, “Ye shall do the works which
ye have seen me do,” these are the grand
key-words for the Society to act upon. 
	Tenth meeting was addressed by Bishop
N. K. Whitney, President Joseph Smith be-
ing present.
	Eleventh meeting, June 11th. President
Joseph Smith. It grieves me that there is
no fuller fellowship, if one member suf-
fers all feel it; by union of feeling we ob-
tain power with God; Christ said He came

[Column 3]
to call sinners to repentance, and to save
them. Christ was condemned by the right-
eous Jews because He took sinners into His
society, he took them upon the principle
that they repent. Nothing is so much cal-
culated to lead people to forsake sin as to
take them by the hand and watch over them
with tenderness. The nearer we get to our
Heavenly Father, the more we are disposed
to look with compassion on perishing souls.
I say to this Society if you would have God
to have mercy on you, have mercy on each
other. How mild the Savior dealt with
Peter, saying, “When thou art converted
strengthen thy brethren.” At another time
He said to him, “Lovest thou me? Feed my
sheep.” The Society is not only to relieve
the poor but to save souls.”
	Sixteenth meeting, held in the Grove,
Aug. 31st, 1842. After relating recent diffi-
culties President Joseph Smith had encoun-
tered while being hunted by his enemies,
he said, the Relief Society has taken an
active part in my welfare in petitioning the
Governor in my behalf. These measures
were necessary and your influence helped to
bring about my redemption from the hands
of my enemies. I have come here to bless
you. The Society has done well, their prin-
ciples are to practice holiness. God loves
you and your prayers shall avail much, do
not cease to let them ascend to God in my
behalf. The enemy will never get weary.
I expect He will array everything against
me, expect a tremendous warfare. He that
will war the Christian warfare will have
Satan and all the powers of darkness con-
tinually arrayed against him.
	A few things had been manifested to him
during his absence, respecting baptism for
the dead, which he would communicate next
Sabbath if nothing should occur to pre-
vent it. He then offered a fervent prayer to
God in behalf of the Society. After the
transaction of some business in the adjust-
ment of which President Smith offered
counsel—he then said he had one more re-
mark to make respecting baptism for the
dead which must suffice for the present and
until he had the opportunity to present the
subject at a greater length.
	All persons baptized for the dead must
have a recorder present, that he may be an
eye-witness to testify of it. It will be nec-
essary in the Great Council that these things
be testified of. It should be attended to
from this time. If there is any lack it may
be at the expense of our friends. This was
the last Relief Society meeting that Presi-
dent Joseph Smith attended.
	During the two years administration of
President Emma Smith and her associates,
visiting sisters were appointed to search
out the needy, to find work for the able-
bodied, to receive contributions and to re-
port conditions.
	The labors of the Society were extend-
ed to the four wards of the City.
	One thousand two hundred and seventy-
five names were enrolled as members. The
recorded receipts were $415.24.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Love Much.
Love much. Earth has enough of bitter in it.
	Cast sweets into its cup whene’er you can.
No heart so hard but love at last may win it.
	Love is the grand primeval cause of man.
	All hate is foreign to the first great plan.
					—Ella Wheeler Wilcox.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“EIGHTY YEARS AND MORE.”

’Tis yet high day, thy staff resume,
	And fight fresh battles for the truth;
For what is age but youth’s full bloom,
	A riper, more transcendent youth!
		A weight of gold
		Is never old;
Streams broader grow as downward rolled. 

At sixty-two life has begun;
	At seventy-three begin once more;
Fly swifter as thou near’st the sun,
	And brighter shine at eighty-four;
		At ninety-five
		Shouldst thou arrive,
Still wait on God, and work and thrive. 
				—Oliver Wendall Homes.

Why call it going down the hill when we are
	growing old,
Why speak with mournful accents when our
	tale is nearly told?
Why sigh when speaking of the past, the days
	that used to be,
As if the future were not bright with immor-
	tality?

Who would exchange for shooting blade the
	waving golden grain?
Or, when the corn is fully ripe would wish it
	green again?
Or who would wish the hoary head, found in
	the way of truth,
To be again encircled with the sunny locks of
	youth?

It is not years that makes men old; the spirit
	may be young
Though fully three-score years and ten the
	wheels of life have run. 
God has Himself recorded in His blessed word
	of truth
That they who wait upon the Lord shall e’en
	renew their youth.—Selected.


[Column 1]
		A TENDER TRIBUTE.
	To the memory of Brother Jenkinson,
one of Salt Lake’s most remarkable men,
and hundreds of its inhabitants will mourn
his loss, and he will live in their memories
as long as life lasts. 
	He was born at Lonsdale, Rhode Island,
December 18, 1851, of pious parentage,
and he could say with Cowper—

	“Be this my boast and pride,
	The child of parents passed into the skies.”

	His early training imbued him with a
high religious nature. He was a lover of
theology and philosophy, and his many
years of blindness rendered him a great
thinker on these lines. In fact, I may say
he lived in a world where his mental vision
made many things plain to him, which we
with our physical vision could not attain to.
	He was a firm believer in telepathy and
the power of kindred spirits, conveying
their thoughts to others, whose minds and
natures were attuned to receive the im-
pressions much in the same way as wire-
less telegraphy is conveyed.
	Although miles away he was capable of
receiving the thoughts of friends, and in-
stantly replying to them through the tele-
phone, saying, “I was just thinking of you,
relative to such a subject, what is your im-
pression or idea of it, and the reply would
invariably be in accordance with his own
ideas.
	In a fast meeting in the Twentieth Ward,
he said: “I am not going to speak, but I
am impressed there is a person in this room
who wants comfort, and to her or him I
am speaking.”
	At the next fast meeting a woman rose
and said she had prayed before going, that

[Column 2]
somebody would say something that would
comfort her in the way she needed, and a
blind man stood up and spoke direct to her.
	He was a lover of animals and flowers,
and especially of birds.
	He dined at my house on the Sunday
before he died, and sitting half dosing in
an easy chair he suddenly said, “Sister
Francis, I have been listening to those
little birds [meaning my canaries] I have
been noticing their change of tones as the
sun declines. It is a low whisper they are
singing now, quite different to the full notes
of the afternoon. And the parrot—I should
like to study that bird, and find out what
amount of intelligence it has! It certainly
connects actions with words. When you
go to the phone he says, ‘Hello, it’s Polly,’
and when you open the outer door, he says,
‘Good-bye.’”
	When the sun was setting, which on that
night was particularly beautiful, Mrs. Jen-
kinson described it to him and he drank in
every word, and in his mental vision he saw
it all, and said, “Is there any dark cloud
on the horizon, or how is it?” We ex-
plained there was not any cloud, how it
shaded from pale sea green to the deepest
blue, and the beauty of the orange and red
tints with the grey and blue, and he thor-
oughly enjoyed it and remarked afterwards,
how he had enjoyed the quiet and the spir-
it of the home.
	A favorite poem of his was—

	“Life I know not what thou art,
	But I know that Thou and I must part.”

It ends with these words—

	“‘Tis hard to part when friends are dear,
	Perhaps t’will call a sigh a tear,
	Then steal away, give little warning,
	Choose thine own time, say not Good-night—
	But in some brighter clime
	Bid me Good-morning.”

	As if this wish were gratified, He was
stricken coming out of the theatre, where
he had taken his blind comrades of the
workshop for the blind, and on his arrival
at home, which he reached with great diffi-
culty, he suddenly became speechless and
passed away at 11:45 that night. He leaves
a wife and six sons and a married daugh-
ter. He always spoke in loving and grate-
ful terms of his dear wife’s devotion to him,
and of the goodness of all his children.
There is nothing to grieve for in his demise
except that we have lost a friend.
	He has obtained a well-earned rest, and
we cannot doubt has heard the, well done
faithful servant. I esteem it an honor that
I may sign myself.
			One of his friends,
						M. F.


WOMAN’S STORE.
	Preliminary steps have been taken to-
wards the establishment of a Woman’s 
Store in this city at an early date. A call
was made through some of the daily papers 
for a meeting to be held on Friday, Novem-
ber 28, at 11 a.m. in the Fourteenth Ward
assembly rooms, for the transaction of im-
portant business. The call was signed by
Mesdames M. Isabella Horne and E. B.
Wells. The meeting was held as per ap-
pointment, Mrs. M. I. Horne Chairman and
Mrs. Emma G. Bull, Secretary.  The sub-
ject of starting a Woman’s Store and its
advantages was plainly stated first by the


Chairman of the meeting and afterwards by
Mrs. Caroline C. Raleigh, Mrs. Zina D. 
H. Young, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Dr E S Bar-
ney and others The shares were placed at
$5.00 each and quite a number of ladies
came forward and took shares in the enter-
prise. It is distinctly understood that this is
not a benevolent undertaking, but positively
a business transaction under the direction
and immediate supervision of reliable wom-
en, although it will doubtless be a good in-
vestment for means belonging to the Relief
Society in its several branches, and other
like Associations, much better than allowing
the money to lie idle. 
	Another meeting was held at the office
of the Woman’s Exponent today, Decem-
ber 1st, at which further business was trans-
acted and committees called for purchasing
goods, etc., who are actively engaged in the
movement, it is expected the store will be
opened on Saturday 13th or the Monday
following at latest. 
	In connection with this commendable, en-
terprise it is expected there will soon be
dressmaking, millinery and hair-dressing
departments in which young girls may be
trained in these active industrial employ-
ments. The management will be in the
hands of women acquainted with business
principles, consequently there is little need
of uncertainty about its success as a safe in-
vestment for capital. 
	Those desiring to take shares can pay
them at the store and receive receipts for
their money until certificates of shares can
be issued. The name under which this en-
terprise will be known is “The Woman’s
Co-operative Mercantile and Manufacturing
Institution,” situated opposite the City Hall,
at 123 E. First South Street.—Republished
from Woman’s Exponent of December 1,
1900.


IN MEMORIAM. 
	Sister Alva Retta Merrill Lewis was the
daughter of Apostle and Almira Merrill and
the wife of George A. Lewis, son of President
William H. Lewis. She was born and raised in
Richmond at which place she lived until her
marriage, when she moved to Lewiston, where
she lived until her death, which occurred Feb. 
4th, 1911. The next fall after coming to Lew-
iston, Nov. 20th, 1906 she became the secre-
tary and treasurer of the Relief Society in
that place, which position she held faithfully,
until within a few weeks of her death, when
she felt as if her health and family cares made
it necessary for her to resign her position and
accordingly she was reluctantly released Jan. 
19th, 1911. No matter how much pain she
suffered or how great her trials were, she was
always cheerful and ready to turn all hardships
aside with a joke. She was indeed a true Re-
lief Society worker in every sense of the word,
and willingly laid her life on the altar to ful-
fill the measure of her creation here on earth
and as a result brought four little spirits into
this world, one of which has preceded her to
the “Great Beyond.” The last one cost her,
her life and although she seemed to have a pre-
sentiment that she was not to remain long on
earth she never once shrank from her duty. 
She departed this life as she had lived a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint, leaving a husband, three
little children, and a host of relatives and friends
to mourn her loss.—Com.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	According to press dispatches the Cabinet
Ministers in England have come to an
agreement with the suffragists and the long-
delayed woman suffrage bill will come be-
fore Parliament May 5.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	FEBRUARY, 1911


[Column 1]
		THE RISING GENERATION.
	The world outside of the Church of Lat-
ter-day Saints is getting very anxious about
the youth of the present day. Too much
frivolity, extravagance and pleasure-seek-
ing, in and among all classes of society, this
is the opinion given in articles published in
the best class of magazines by famous
writers, and it is a subject discussed in the
homes of the people and elsewhere. What
shall be done to avert the danger? How
are the young people to be convinced of the
consequences of the course pursued by the
majority of the boys and girls in their teens,
or just past that stage? To refer them back
to the times gone by seems useless; when
people do this, they subject themselves to
ridicule of a very disagreeable nature, and
do little, if any, good; but there must of
necessity eventually be a reform, and where
or how will it be brought about. 
	We are well aware that to attempt any
criticism of the present educational system
is to offend the dignitaries of colleges and
universities the world over. Yet there are
some men, and even women, who are fear-
less enough to declare these things publicly. 
As an instance of the working out of some
of the newest educational methods, one fa-
mous writer says: “I recall serving on a
committee to award prizes for the best es-
says in a certain competition where the
competitors were seniors in an accredited
college. In despair at the material submit-
ted, the committee was finally forced to
select as, “best” the essay having the fewest
grammatical errors and the smallest num-
ber of misspelled words. The one theme
which showed traces of thought was posi-
tively illiterate in expression.”
	The writer also remarks these are some
of the minor indictments, but there are oth-
er things that are not what has been ardent-
ly hoped for as the result of the “higher
education” of the present. The modern girls
are louder-voiced and more pronounced in
every way, and their boy companions are
rougher and more familiar than used to be
thought well-bred. As distasteful as these
last mentioned things are they perhaps
should not be considered ground for com-
plaint in those who are soon to be in full
charge of the world, and as a matter of
course every generation has a right to its
own code of manners and customs. 
	Possibly we of today are justified in crit-

[Column 2]
cizing when they make such alterations in
the mode of living, and of fashions and
practices as are detrimental to the welfare
of the human race. 
	The question has been asked and repeated
—“Is the quality of the human product
really falling off.” There is a sort of sus-
picion in the minds of those who study these
matters scientifically that there is a material
change taking place in the physical life, and
constitution, as well as some serious delin-
quencies, and it is necessarily very humili-
ating to contemplate, and therefore high
time a reformation should begin instead of
more and more fads. 
	The causes of these things, if they do
exist are too complicated to go into, in a
brief manner, but to the young people just
coming on to the stage of action and who
will have these things to meet, they will,
if this be true, have very difficult problems
to solve. If higher standards of excellence
are to prevail in business and in politics,
then there must be wisdom, knowledge of
affairs, fortitude, moral courage and earn-
estness of purpose brought to bear to effect
the change; and is the training in colleges,
universities, and commercial life today, the
kind of essential discipline that will help
young men and women, (for it will need
both men and women) to fight the battle
against these evils and corrupt practices that
have been and are undermining the old-
fashioned types of American life. 
	Of course, the evidence of the facts that
“the human product is falling off,” are not
easily obtainable, and there must be positive
and undeniable proofs if people are to take
hold of so difficult a problem and attempt
to renovate society and change, as it were,
the very foundations on which human pro-
gress, so-called, stands today. It is a sort
of under-current not easily caught and held
for examination, yet palpably perceptible to
the wise, the prudent and far-seeing. 
	“Some of the pleasures indulged in today
are obviously corroding to the taste, to be
frank they are vulgarizing,” so says one of
the modern authors. 
	Again it is stated, “Can anything avail to
refine children whose tastes are formed by
the colored supplements of Sunday papers,
as their taste in entertainment is shaped by
continuous vaudeville and the moving pic-
ture shows.”
	Are not these things potent factors in
children’s lives now, and it cannot fail to
have an influence on plastic human material
unless some precaution is taken or some
powerful motive brought to bear in eradicat-
ing this pernicious evil tendency from their
tender minds. Formerly the parents of
these children saw occasionally such fa-
mous actors as Booth, Barrett and Mod-
jeska, and the play of Rip Van Winkle;
now their children go to see vaudeville al-
most constantly. 
	Fathers and mothers don’t approve usu-
ally of the children being so persistent about
common ordinary shows, but they hate to
have the children deprived of the pleasures
the neighbors’ children enjoy, and are not
strong-minded enough to set the example
and stand by their convictions. On some
points they are considerably conscientious
about the children’s teeth or hair or tonsils
etc., but the soul of the child that is most
precious is neglected or left to impressions
that are more weakening and defaming than
those of the body.

[Column 3]
	With all the boasting of our civilization
and higher education what are the results in
real human improvement? How far have
we advanced beyond our fathers? Is it not
a fact that the utmost that can be done for
the child today will not counterbalance the
rapidly-growing disadvantages of modern
conditions? Forging ahead at full speed ma-
terially, this generation is woefully dropping
behind in many respects. The fundamental
neglect now is the edccation of the soul, and
this can only be effected by early religious
training; this is what the people called Lat-
ter-day Saints are professedly trying to ac-
complish, but are we as a people earnestly
striving to keep alive the faith that will
make the children of the day strong, those
elements of character to meet difficulties,
the faith that has force and fortitude and is
capable of endurance and self-denial, life
demands this now as much or perhaps even
more than it ever did before. Measure
yourselves you young people by the high-
est standard of character, and make the ef-
fort of your life to reach it. Let it not be
said of the young people in our Church that
they are markedly inferior to their grand-
fathers in every way, shallower, feebler,
more flippant, less efficient physically and
even mentally though their work has been
more with books and their grandfathers
with flocks and herds or in the woods or
fields. 
	One writer tells of a young man who was
horrified on its being suggested to him that
he might have to care for his parents in
their old age. “It would interfere too
much’ he said, “with his conception of
working out his career.” Afraid of respon-
sibility, such words as character and duty
convey nothing to young people of this
type.”
	Is it not true that in former days when
there was more work and less amusement,
that people were better disciplined and there
was more growth and developmnet of the
soul? Experience and pain have in them
great possibilities for solving the problems
of life, or of selfhood, the great creative ele-
ments in personality are responsibility and
suffering. The raw material of the work-
man must have the hammer, the chisel, and
the drill. It is obvious men and women
are here to make something of life; the
whole matter is simple if we look at it prop-
erly and adjust ourselves to conditions in-
stead of rebeling and making life harder
and more difficult by maintaining the dig-
nity of the situation in which we find our-
selves left to work out some of life’s prob-
lems. 
	One of the common sayings of the young
people nowadays, is that “life is not worth
living if you can’t have what you want, and
go where you please.” The old-fashioned
books of New England life in the early half
of the nineteenth century were wholesome
reading, some of these are incomparable
text books on the art of living, the habits
and virtues of plain living, high thinking,
and purposeful lives. The men and women
of that day gloried in responsibility.
	It seems the world is very much alive just
now, and there is a fine chance for the young
people to make a good fight for the right
and win against the heavy odds at work to
destroy the better elements of character. 
	The children of this people called Latter-
day Saints should grow up with the dis-
tinction of the highest spiritual training,


and be an example to the world. Such has
ever been the prayers of the early members 
of the Church, and that this younger gener-
ation may be even more earnest and dili-
gent with the increased advantages afforded 
them seems almost assured. But in order 
to keep up this high standard of life in 
its truest meaning, the rising generation 
must cling close to the principles taught by 
the Savior when here upon the earth walk-
ing and talking with His disciples and the 
people with whom He conversed. 
We have “The Articles of Faith” that 
were prepared by the Prophet Joseph Smith
—that are par excellence—and all the in-
stitutions of the Church if abided by, tend 
to uplifting morally and spiritually; if the 
saints lived in possession of the spirit of
that divine faith which is the foundation of 
all growth and intelligence, and the soul 
and centre of all things and the power by 
which “the worlds were framed by the 
word of God.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“THE CITIES OF THE SUN.”
	It has been said of the people of Utah
that though we excelled in art, and led in
music, we were far behind in literature.
This statement, if true, is probably due to
the fact that our literature is almost entirely
of a religious nature and not so generally
read nor advertised as our artistic or mu-
sical efforts are. Notwithstanding this,
there is occasionally issued from the press
some beautiful volume of prose or poetry
by Utah people which deserves more praise
and patronage than it generally receives.
Surely no people is richer in historical nar-
rative than the Latter-day Saints. The bare
history of the people from the foundation
of the Church, their building of cities and
temples, their migrations, their wanderings,
their explorations, their discoveries and in-
dustries, mingled with their many miracu-
lous deliverances and marvelous faith, are
worthy the pen of a De Quincy. What a
rich field here awaits the pen of some gifted
and imaginative writer!
	The reading and writing of fiction has
not been encouraged to any great extent
among the Latter-day Saints, for many
reasons. While it is the class of literature
which appeals most to the general public,
especially the youth, there is always a doubt
as to whether it is more helpful and bene-
ficial than harmful to the mind, that of
course depending largely on the wisdom
of the reader in the choice of his books.
This is probably the reason that Utah writ-
ers have produced more historical, scien-
tific and poetic works than romance.
	About Christmas time there appeared a
little volume of unusual interest to grace
the shelves of home literature—“The Cities
of the Sun,” by Miss Elizabeth R. Cannon.
The book is a collection of short stories
founded on the early history of the people
of the western hemisphere—as told in the
wonderful book of our people—the Book
of Mormon. The stories have for a set-
ting the lands of Zarahemla and Lehi-
Nephi, and for characters the personages
of that sacred book. The young writer,
however, while relating incidents in the
lives of the martyrs and heroes of those
days, clothes the stories with fanciful and
tender romance which, combined with po-
etical, descriptive paragraphs, makes a fas-
cinating book to delight the mind and ex-


cite the interest of the most languid reader.
The book is illustrated with a number of
pictures, some taken from the paintings of
that pioneer Utah artist, George M. Ot-
tinger, who so delighted in the depth and
richness of color of Mexican and Peruvi-
an subjects, and some original photographs
taken by the author herself during her
travels in Mexico.
	We trust the success of this first volume
will be such as to encourage Miss Cannon
to continue her literary efforts. She seems
to have entered a field for which she is well
fitted, and, judged by this effort, the fu-
ture holds a bright career for her.


[Column 1]
		FROM OVER THE SEA.
	We are quite sure our sisters from Great
Britain will be glad to hear of the work be-
ing done by the Relief Society in their home
land, and we take pleasure in copying a few
items from the Milliennial Star.
	January 28, 1911, an enjoyable social was
held in the Latter-day Saints Hall, North-
ampton branch (Birmingham conference).
A very interesting program was rendered
by saints and friends, consisting of singing,
recitations, etc. After the program they
participated in a few orderly games. The
sum of eight shillings was collected to buy
hymn books for the branch. The sisters
were very grateful to the friends who so
willingly helped to make the social a suc-
cess.
	The same evening, January 28, 1911, an
excellent social was held in the Latter-day
Saints Church, corner of Ellsmere Road,
and Lyons, Pitsmore, Sheffield, Sheffield 
Conference in honor of Elders Horace W.
Bond and Hyrum B. Clawson previous to
their leaving the mission field. Elder Bond
to return to Zion and and Elder Clawson to
join his parents in Liverpool. A large
number of saints and friends were present
to show their respect to the departing El-
ders. A good program was rendered and
afterwards President Rudger Clawson gave
a spirited address.
	A social concert was held January 31st,
at 144 St. George Street, West Hyde, Man-
chester Conference in aid of the Relief So-
ciety. A very fine program was rendered
consisting of songs, recitations, and instru-
mental music. About eighty saints and
friends were present. The sum of one pound
nine shillings and eight pence was realized
after all expenses were paid.
	Saturday evening, February 4, 1911, a
delightful social was given in Montham
Road Assembly Rooms, Handsworth,
(Birmingham conference) under the au-
spices of the Birmingham branch Relief
Society. The party was in honor of Elder
Thomas F. Greenwood who has been re-
leased to return home. About two hundred
saints and friends assembled to bid him
God-speed. An exceptional program of
song and story was given by saints and
friends of the conference, and a delicious
luncheon was served during the evening by
the good sisters of the Relief Society and a
spirit of harmony prevailed among saints
and friends. A suitable token had been pro-
vided for the departing Elder and it was
presented by Elder Leonard Mackay, the
response by Elder Greenwood was full of
expressions of love and good feeling for the
saints and friends participating on this
memorable occasion.

[Column 2]
Wednesday night, February 8, 1911, El-
der James A. McMurrin of Edinburgh
branch Scottish conference was presented
with a fine Scotch traveling rug and dress-
ing case. Every one present partook of the
good-will and jollity of the occasion and
manifested their hearty appreciation of their
friend and brother who had been laboring
and presiding there and had won their
heart’s love, and was now about to leave
them and return to his home.
	Thursday evening, February 9, 1911,
about two hundred saints and friends of the
Glasgow branch (Scottish conference) gave
a very pleasant social at 30, Abbotsford
Place, Glasgow in honor of Elder Lorenzo
S. Burt, prior to his departure for his home
in Brigham City, Utah. An excellent pro-
gram of songs, recitations and instrumental
selections at an intermission about nine
o’clock a dainty luncheon was served, the
Elder was presented with a fine Scotch rug
as a token of their love and appreciation of
his labors friends as well as saints mani-
festing their esteem for him because of the
labors performed in Bonnie Scotland.
	Wednesday February 1, 1911, the Dover
Latter-day Saints Sunday School had a
treat in Templar Hall, Biggin Street, at 5
p. m. Superintendent Ben. Britten and
wife, with Sisters Eldredge and Gale, El-
ders John G. Duley, Wm. L. Coburn and
others made a happy time for the children.
Lantern slides, telling stories by pictures
was conducted by Brother Britten, the lights
were turned on again and every child had a
present and all the little ones had a bag of
sweets.
	Saturday evening, February 11, 1911, a
very well-attended and successful social was
given in the Nelson branch (Liverpool con-
ference) in honor of Elder Franklin R.
Smith who has labored there fifteen months,
and is now released to come home. A most
excellent program was rendered by the
saints and the friends of the branch and
light refreshments were served and Elder
Smith was the recipient of some handsome
presents, expressions of the confidence and
esteem of the saints.


A DELIGHTFUL EVENING.
	February is the natal month of that es-
teemed and beloved Utah woman, Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells, and during that month
her numerous friends, vie with each other
in showing her their love and appreciation.
	The first of a series of entertainments
was a most charming dinner party given on
the evening of Friday, the 17th instant, by
Mrs. J. S. Houtz, in her elegant apart-
ments in the Avalon.
	The guests were the charter members
of the Utah Woman’s Press Club, now res-
ident in the city, and the First Presidency
of the Church. The rooms were effective-
ly decorated in red and green, and a fine
musical program was rendered by Mrs.
Agnes Dalquist Beckstrand and Prof. and
Miss Nettleton. Mrs. Houtz, herself a
most delightful hostess, was ably assisted
by two charming daughters, Miss Pearl and
Eradne and a niece Miss Snow.
	The appointments of the table were very
beautiful; filmy Duchesse lace centerpieces
over green silk with a centerpiece of red
and white carnations mingled with ferns
and smilax, The place cards were red
hearts with the name of the guest and


“Utah Woman’s Press Club” thereon, and 
the service used was green Yeirakas ware 
inlaid with silver, while the dinner was all 
that the most fastidious gourmet could pos-
sibly desire, and the beauty and charm of it
was that the young daughters of the house 
prepared and served it themselves. 
	A beautiful little Miss of three years—
Channa Glory—assisted in the entertain-
ment of the guests with singing and quaint 
conversation. A ring with a setting of the 
Utah stone—the Amatrice, the gift of the 
Club members—was presented to Mrs. 
Wells, President Joseph F. Smith making 
a graceful and tender presentation speech. 
	The guests will ever feel indebted to Mrs. 
Houtz and her beautiful family for a most 
delightful and enjoyable evening. 
			ONE OF THE GUESTS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SOCIAL NOTES FOR FEBRUARY.
	The Daughters of the Revolution gave a
very pretty party and social on the evening
of the 11th in the Assembly Room of the
Bishop’s Building.
	The affair was partly in honor of the
junior society, recently organized and to
bring together the two organizations, the
seniors and juniors, and also a patriotic
party to honor the birthdays of the two
greatest Americans—Washington and Lin-
coln. The decorations were extremely beau-
tiful, the national colors gracefully draped
around the room, and standards and em-
blems of liberty hung over on the walls.
Dancing followed a short program and re-
freshments were served.

THE THREE UTAH PATRIOTIC SOCIETIES.
	The Daughters of the Pioneers, the
Daughters of the Mormon Battalion and
the Hand Cart veterans gave a character
ball and social in the Assembly room of the
Bishop’s Building on the evening of the
21st. About three hundred people partici-
pated in the festivities. Many of the cos-
tumes worn were very handsome and uni-
que; some wearing jewels, shawls, and
dresses of historical interest and as the var-
souvienne, schottisch, Sir Roger de Coverly
and other old time dances were engaged in,
the sight was both beautiful and interesting.
The quaint costumes, and manners of long
ago became the topic of conversation and
while some danced, others became reminis-
cent and repeated many charming and valu-
able anecdotes of the early social life in the
valley. The hostesses of the occasion were
the officers of the three societies who spared
no pains to make the party most enjoyable
in every respect.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club and the
Reapers Social joined in a very delightful
entertainment given in honor of Mrs. Em-
meline B. Wells, founder of the two clubs,
on the evening of the 23rd of February. The
party was held in the Relief Society head-
quarters and was partly in the nature of a
surprise to Mrs. Wells. About two hun-
dred guests were present and a very pleas-
ing musical and literary program was ren-
dered, most of the numbers being original.
A beautiful bouquet of red and white car-
nations eighty-three in number was present- 
ed Mrs. Wells with an original poem writ-
ten by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
	The object of the organization of these

[Column 2]
two clubs was to encourage and assist wom-
en writers and those interested in literary
work and was done October 1891-92, with
the approval and consent of the presiding
authorities of the Church They have been
the means of bringing to the front many
writers, both of prose and poetry, and the
kind and friendly criticism of the club mem-
bers has been of great assistance to the dif-
fident and modest authors.
	Mrs. Wells was quite overcome with the
many complimentary remarks given her on
this occasion, but the members of these so-
cieties never feel that they can adequately
show their love and appreciation to one who
has given them so much encouragement and
assistance for, as they express it, she has
caused them to know themselves. Mrs.
Wells was presented with a very handsome
purse and the evening was most enjoyable.
	The general officers of the Relief Society
gave a banquet and reception in honor of
their president Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
83rd anniversary Tuesday afternoon and
evening, February 28. It was the first pub-
lic affair given by the officers since Mrs.
Wells appointment as president and was
therefore something of an official recogni-
tion of her office. The banquet was held in
the upper dining room of the Bishop’s
Building and during the dinner the ladies
responded to toasts the subjects pertaining
to different phases in the life of the honored
guest, Mrs. Emily S. Richards acted as toast
mistress of the occasion and responses were
made by members of the general board.
	The evening was an open reception to
which the public generally were invited to
shake hands with the honored lady and
congratulate her on the attainment of so
many years in life’s long journey. How
beautiful it is to reach such an age and re-
tain the wit and charm and grace of youth,
combined with the wisdom and knowledge
that long years bestow. No wonder that
Mrs. Wells legion of friends delight to love
and honor her.—Camelia.


CHARACTER.
	“We are building every day,
	In a good or evil way,
	And the building as it grows
	Must our inmost thoughts disclose.
	Build it well, whate’er you do;
	Build it strong and straight and true;
	Build it high and deep and broad;
	Build it for the eye of God.”

	How do we measure or know a person?
it is by their character that we determine
their value. Our minds are given us, but
we make our character. The mind is the
garden, the character the fruits. We form
character by living right every day, doing
well every little act; for the little things
accumulate to form great things, by being
firm as the rock in the right, by having an
aim in life, and keeping it in view.
	Our acts and thoughts are the stones with
which this character structure is built. If
one stone is weak there is a flaw and the
whole structure is marred, making it more
subject to destructive elements and decay.
	What made Washington and Lincoln
great, was it greatness of mind? Not so
much as greatness and nobility of character.

“There’s something that’s better than rubies
	And nobler than riches and fame,
It will strew all your pathway with roses,
	If you try to keep bright a good name.”

[Column 2]
Let us dwell for a moment on the life of
Booker T. Washington. Even though a col-
ored man and handicapped on every side, he
overcame every obstacle and gained for him-
self a name and was a blessing to thousands
of his race, and this because of his strong
character. Nothing could keep him down.
Others felt his greatness and were ready to
do his bidding. We all know when we meet
a person with a strong character, we feel
it and are impressed with a sense of
strength.
	Emerson says, “Character is of a stellar
and undiminishable greatness. What others
effect by talent or by eloquence, this man
accomplishes by magnetism. Half his
strength he puts not forth. His victories are
by demonstration of superiority, and not by
crossing of bayonets. He conquers, because
his arrival alters the face of affairs.”
	With the end in view of helping to build
character in our children, are our courses
of study outlined and our most earnest ef-
forts put forth. What we want is men 
and women of power, who know not the
word fail. We have many examples of this
type in our nation and in our Church. Why
not more of them?
	“The mother in her office holds the key
to the soul.” Let us learn how to turn the
key which will open the door, letting in a
flood of truth and light, that the beauties of
nature and the glory of God may fill his
soul, giving him aspirations and ambitions
that will place him on a higher plane, where
the petty things of life and temptations serve
only to spur him on to greater action. The
office of motherhood is not to be considered
as lightly as heretofore. Largely through
the influence of the mother is the destiny of
nations shaped. Then why is she not given
more support and encouragement in her
calling?
	Mothers, let us awaken to our duties and
listen to the words of wisdom, given us by
the Lord through his holy prophets, to live
simply and purely, that we may make our
own characters strong and enduring and in
turn impart these characteristics to our chil-
dren, that our lives will not be in vain.

“Build today, then, strong and sure,
	With a firm and ample base;
And ascending and secure
	Shall tomorrow find its place. 
Thus alone can we attain
	To those turrets, where the eye
Sees the world as one vast plain,
	And one boundless reach of sky.”
				—Ethel M. Humphreys.


IN MEMORY OF SUSANNAH P. BOOTHE
	On the morning of Nov. 24th, 1910, our be-
loved President, Sister Susannah P. Boothe,
passed away and in her passing away Box
Elder Stake lost one of its most noble women.
	Susannah Neff Pierce Boothe was born in
Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, March 26th,
1831. She joined the Church when very young,
and participated in the hardships through which
the Saitns had to pass. She was one of the
Pioneers of ’47, walking a good deal of the way
across the plains, and with her father’s fam-
ily located at Mill Creek, Salt Lake county.
	In 1850 she became the wife of Eli Harvey
Pierce, and in 1851 she removed with him to
Brigham City, locating in the “Old Fort.” They
were among the first families to come to Brig-
ham, and Sister Boothe was identified with
the growth of the city.
	August 12, 1858, her first husband died, leav-
ing her with four small children. A few years
later she married W. H. Boothe, by whom she
had six children, making ten children in all, and
who are all living. She was remarkably strong,


never having been sick in bed from disease,
more than two days in her life, until her last
illness, during which time she suffered no pain,
and finally passed away in her sleep.
	She was a very industrious and energetic
woman, always doing something. As a Church
worker she was very active. When the Relief
Society was organized in May, 1868 in Brig-
ham City, eight teachers were called and Sister
Boothe was one of them. She acted in this
calling until March, 1878, when the Relief Soci-
ety was organized into a stake capacity, and
she was called to fill the position of first coun-
selor to President Harriet A. Snow. She was
also called to preside over the Relief Society
of the First Ward on the same day, the latter
position she filled with honor for over 20 years,
gaining the love and esteem of all her sisters
and co-laborers.
	She continued as counselor until President
Harriet A. Snow’s death, in 1890, when she was
released from the stake board, but still con-
tinued as president of the First Ward, until
Nov. 13th, 1898, when she was appointed Pres-
ident of Box Elder Stake Relief Society, after
the death of President Olivia Widerborg. This
position she held until the time of her death.
	Sister Boothe was a true Latter-day Saint,
firm in her convictions of what was right. She
was always prompt, energetic and an indefatig-
able worker. She never disappointed in one
single instance when called to a duty. She was
charitable towards all, had a cheery disposi-
tion, and always met her friends with a smile.
She was a noble character, and her memory
will live long in the minds of those who knew
and loved her.
	From her co-workers,
		Emelia D. Madsen, First Counselor.
		Emeline P. Watkins, Second Counselor.
		Mary J. Harding, Assistant Counselor.
		Annie H. Leatherwood, Secretary.
		Rose H. Neeley, Asst. Secretary.
		Lula B. Call, Corresponding Secretary.
		Fanny Graehl, Treasurer.
		Ada N. Madsen, Organist.
		Lizzie Wright, Chorister.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		SPARE MOMENTS.
	You will naturally ask what spare mo-
ments have mothers? Truly, not many,
but I will endeavor to place before you a
few ways in which a little more time may
be given her.
	The first thing is order, and system in
the home.
	A place for everything and everything in
its place, and a time for everything, each
day to have as far as possible its appointed
work.
	Every one should be trained to put things
away after using them. Children are apt
to be careless in this, and throw things
down for mother to put away. Check this
tendency at the time if possible. Train them
to look around and see what is required,
and do it without being told.
	A great deal of the cause of mothers
presence is due to want of proper training
for the children when they are young. Chil-
dren like to be busy, therefore direct their
energy!
	A baby of two years is delighted if he
can carry anything to the table for mother,
or help her in any way; encourage this,
and as they get older set them certain things
to do, that they recognize as their rights,
and never infringe on it or allow another
child to do so.
	I think a great want in the Kindergarten
teaching is the failure to teach the little
“tots” to use a needle and thimble. They
would at that time be only too glad to learn
it as play, and the advantage it would be
to them in later years would be unquestion-
able, as it would give them a love for sew-
ing.
	The usual practice of allowing the chil-

[Column 2]
dren to run wild as soon as school is out
is a source of a great deal of the trouble in
the management of the children today. Do
not prevent children having play, but let it
lead to useful knowledge. Teach little
girls to dress their dolls, crochet clothes for
them. A skein of yarn is inexpensive, and
will give them hours of useful amusement,
and prevent them running the streets or
living at neighbors’ houses.
	It will save the mother a great deal of
dirt in the house. Our children bring
enough dirt in the house, and cause enough
untidiness without all the neighbors’ chil-
dren making a thoroughfare of your home.
	Teach the children to find their amuse-
ments and interest in things at home. Our
yards in this country are large enough for
all the recreation they need. Put up a
swing, and a teeter totter, I think they call
it, for them and while the older ones are
helping mother peel potatoes, and other
various things, the litlte ones will amuse
themselves, and mother will have more
time to arrange her work.
	Let it be understood that the little ones
go to bed at 7 or 8 o’clock, and that
mother has nothing to do after supper.
That is her work time for the family, and
the time she can enjoy the society of her
husband.
	Let all the children, great and small, un-
der fourteen years, be in bed at 9 o’clock,
and no question or disputing about it. Nev-
er allow children to encroach on each others
rights in wearing their gloves, ribbons, etc.
A great deal of time is lost in looking for
things that somebody has used and not put
away.
	When my children were young we had
an old servant who, if anything was left
about of the childrens, she hid it, and gave
them the trouble of looking for it. When
asked about it she would say, Miss Mary,
if you put it away you would know where
to find it, with all the work I have to do,
I cannot take care of your things.
	If the children help in these things it will
give many spare moments to the mothers;
and if rightly used will help her consider-
ably. Have something always ready to take
up at a moment. Never be without a
mother’s necessaries, viz., Cotton, black and
white, needles, thimble, bodkin, tapes, and a
pair of good cutting scissors, which are to
be kept religiously for mothers use only.
	I once read an article in which it said
it was a husband’s duty to see that his wife
was always supplied with a good pair of
scissors and sharp knives for use. If a
mother always has her work tools ready
she can take many a stitch in a few spare
moments, but I fear in most homes, this par-
ticular part of the household appliances are
for everybodys use, and consequently can
never be found when needed.
	I knew a lady who used to go back and
forth to business, in a train, a half-hour’s
journey, and I know she knitted her chil-
dren twelve pair of black wool stockings in
those spare moments.
	If you have ironnig to do, keep your irons
on all days and whenever you have a spare
moment iron an article.
	Most mothers make over a large garment
to fit a smaller child, never trouble to un
pick it, cut the seams off and iron your
cloth flat and put your pattern on. It will
save time, especially if your irons are al-
ways ready. If the cloth requires washing
coat it with a good soaping of Naptha soap
and while you are doing something else,

[Column 3]
the dirt will be soaking out and a slight
rub and rinse will make it ready for iron-
ing, and at another spare moment you can
lay the pattern on and cut it out and it will
be ready to make up in the evening after the
children are gone to bed. Let the big girls
help you in the sewing. It is fitting them
for their future. Teach them life is learned
and not intended for a round of pleasure
and folly. Let them have a chance now and
then, to go to an amusement but do not
let them expect to be away from home
every evening, and mother doing the work.
	Home should be the home of the family
and not a place where mother is the family
drudge. It should be everybody’s duty to
help mother, she should be the first consid-
eration, and if father impressed this more
emphatically on the children it would have
a salutary effect.
	There should be a oneness in the home.
To make our own wishes subservient to the
needs of the others. Laziness in the chil-
dren leads to bad companionship, which is
the stepping stone to every vice under the
sun.
	Dr. Walls says Satan finds some mis-
chief still for idle hands to do. And why
should mothers be the only busy hands in
the family circle? Is it justice, I ask? In
last night’s Deseret News there was the
following paragraph:
	“Children should be taught to depend
upon themselves and also that they are
just as responsible for making home happy
and pleasant as are the older members of
the family.”
	Therefore, you see the mothers spare
moments and opportunities depend greatly
upon the other members of the family.
	Trusting that some good may be gleaned
from my remarks and that God will bless
the mothers and give them wisdom to bring
up their children, so that they can lessen
their burdens in these strenuous times, is
my prayer in the name of Jesus.—Maria
Francis.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. 
		ENSIGN STAKE. 
	Minutes of conference of Ensign Stake 
Relief Society, held in Twentieth Ward 
meeting house, January 27, 1911, at 2 p. m.
	Stake President Margaret A. Romney
presiding. Singing; prayer by Dr. Maggie 
C. Roberts. Singing. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
then lectured on the subject of Adolescence, 
or the transition period of our children. 
	A vocal selection, by Ssiter Schofield.
	President Emmeline B. Wells then ad- 
dressed the meeting. Referred to the mat-
ter of dress in early days in Utah and at the 
present time, and advocated moderation 
and taste in the selection and make-up of 
our apparel. She recounted an instance of 
one who had the reputation of being well 
dressed in very early days in Missouri, with 
but one calico dress, which she wore all 
week and carefully washed and ironed Sat-
urday night and on the Sunday, was com-
plimented as being a well dressed woman. 
Do not be depressed in spirit, she said, for 
it has a bad effect on the household. It 
would be a good thing to invite to these 
conferences the officers of the Young
Ladies’ and Primary Associations, as those 
organizations really had their inception 
from our society. The ten cent fund, she 
said, is of great importance in our So-
ciety; for out of it the General Society has


to pay all its expenses including travel-
ing expenses for the officers and General 
Board, visiting annually the several stakes 
of Zion. She recalled the occasion of the 
Jubilee year, when President Taylor do-
nated liberally to the Latter-day Saints and 
the Relief Society, gave to the needy two-
thirds of the wheat they had stored. The 
Relief Society of Ensign Stake, as shown 
by the report have now considerable money 
for wheat, and but little wheat stored, and 
she advocated that the money be taken for 
the purchase of wheat at the first incom-
ing harvest. Mentioned the American
Woman’s League, the erection of a build-
ing here, etc. Explained clearly the Na-
tional Council of Women of the United
States, and our affiliation in that impor-
tant organization. She emphasized the im-
portance of testimony meetings, which she 
said should never be allowed to be crowded 
out or neglected. Related some personal 
reminiscences of the Prophet Joseph, and 
the transfiguration she had witnessed when 
the mantle of the Prophet Joseph fell upon
Brigham Young, concluding with a strong 
testimony of the truthfulness of the work. 
	Sister Schofield rendered a vocal selec-
tion, “Beautiful visions of days gone by.”
	The general and stake officers of the Re-
lief Society were presented by Sister M. 
H. James, and unanimously sustained. 
	Counselor Annie K. Hardy presented a 
resolution, urging upon the Legislature, now 
in session, prompt and favorable action on 
the proposed and pending bills pertaining 
to the extension and financial support of the
Juvenile Court work, which was voted upon 
unanimously.
	President Margaret A. Romney ex-
pressed gratification at the visit of Presi-
dent Emmeline B. Wells, and prayed that 
her life might be spared as long as she 
should desire life. She then announced the 
adjournment of this conference for six
months.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation, ye 
Saints of the Lord.”
	Benediction, Cecelia S. Barker.
		CECELIA SHARP BARKER, 
							Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MILWAUKEE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	On the evening of Feb. 14th, 1911, the
Relief Society of the Milwaukee Branch of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, gave a chicken supper. The menu
included the following: Hot biscuits, car-
rots and peas, baked beans, celery, pickles,
mashed potatoes and several kinds of cake.
	The church was tastefully decorated in
red and white; small tables were used, cov-
ered with white paper with red hearts across
the center. The following named sisters
did the serving: Idell Crager, Madge Hill,
Freda Weiss, Olive Whitte, Laura Wittie,
Cecil McLausland. They were dressed in
white, with a large red heart for a cap.
The aprons were of white with small hearts
to form a border. Altogether the effect was
very pleasing.
	Those present were agreeably surprised
with the presence of President G. E. Ells-
worth and wife.
	While the object of this entertainment
was to obtain means to purchase a carpet
for the rostrum of their church, a greater
good was done in meeting strangers and
talking to them on the restored gospel and
their being invited to call at their homes.


Much credit is due the sisters for their
untiring efforts. Socially and financially
the affair was a decided success.
	The auxiliary organizations of the
Church, aided by the mutual dramatic club,
presented the branch with a new piano.
	I thought perhaps, Sister Wells, that this
little article would be of service to you in
your valuable paper. We have organized
our Chicago branch Relief Society and have
it now in a flourishing condition. Since
June of last year I have had charge of the
branches of the Relief Society of the mis-
sion, and I think a better work is being
done.
	We also have a Relief Society thorough-
ly organized in Rock Island, Ill., and Flint,
Michigan.
	I have wondered if it would be possible
for you to send the Exponent to each of
our four presidents. Of course one is al-
ready coming to Chicago president, but I
have been sending mine from here, but
they would feel ecnouraged if they re-
ceived the paper. Most of them are unable
to pay the subscription.
	Any advice or assistance given will be
gratefully received, for I desire above all
else to make a success of the organizations
over which I preside.
	Thanking you for your kindness in the
past, and praying our Father’s blessings up-
on you continually, I remain,
			Your sister,
				MARY SMITH ELLSWORTH.


MALAD STAKE. 
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held at Malad, Idaho, November 17, 1910. 
Convened at 10 a. m. President Eliza Hall
presiding:
	After opening exercises President Hall
made opening remarks, felt a great weight
resting upon her, had a great desire to do
her duty. Reports as follows: Portage,
Malad, St. John, Samaria, Pleasant View,
Woodruff. Reported in good condition, they
are following out the outlines and storing
grain, etc. Recitation from Woodruff Ward,
entitled: “Unawares.”
Counselor Sara A. Jones had a desire to
do her part and be charitable to all. Sister
M. J. Dalton felt willing to do all she could
to help the work along. 
	A sketch from Portage Ward, on the life
of Ex. President Bathsheba Smith. Annie
Sawyer gave some interesting remarks. 
Stake Counselor L. D. Jones addressed the
sisters, subject, “Be Kind to the Least of
God’s Children, Lest Ye Grieve Your Mas-
ter.” Bishop J. P. Jensen was proud of
the good work of the Relief Society, en-
couraged them to press forward. Presi-
dent Hall made closing remarks, was de-
lighted in the good teachings received. Clos-
ing song “Redeemer of Israel.” Benedic-
tion, Brother Howell. 
	Afternoon Session.—At 2 p. m. Presi-
dent Eliza Hall presiding. Singing. Presi-


dent Hall was pleased to have the support
of the Priesthood in attendance, and de-
sired us to be one of the best in Zion, en-
couraged the storing of grain. Washakie
was reported in harmony with others in
their work. Etty Morris and Mary Stuart
had a faithful testimony of the Gospel, and
were proud of the good teaching received
at the conference, and determined to follow
the teachings given. Treasurer Emma
Price gave some good counsel and wished
God’s blessings on all. Song by Mrs. Ran-
dall of Malad Ward, entitled, “Help the
Weak.’ Stake Counselor W. H. Gibbs ad-
dressed the conference, said too many peo-
ple look after other peoples business and
forget their own, encouraged the saints in
their duty one toward another, and to press
on in good works, and store more grain.
Recitation from Woodruff Ward, by Miss
Yearsley. Piano solo by Miss Benedict of
Malad. Song Verda Godwin, entitled, “The
Vacant Chair.” Brother Howell had many
thoughts of the day and the renewal of his
testimony, said no greater work can wom-
an do than this. President Hall made clos-
ing remarks, and thanked all for the inter-
est taken at this conference, closed by sing-
ing, “Count Your Many Blessings.” Bene-
diction by Brother J. P. Jensen.
					E. A. JONES, Sec.


Resolutions.
	Resolutions of Respect to Dear Aunt Emma
S. Smith, former president of Snowflake Stake
Relief Society:
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Snow-
flake Stake Relief Society, mourn with the
children of dear Aunt Emma. 
	Resolved, That her beautiful life shall come
before us; that can bear testimony that she
was true to the Gospel of Jesus Christ that
she was true to her husband, true to her family
and true to her friends.
	Resolved, That to the Relief Society of
this stake in all its branches, she has been a
Mother; her prayers and her fastings have
been for us, and for our children.
	She formed a link between the early days of
the Church even down to the present time.
	We realize that she was clothed in the man-
tle of humility and yet she was not void of
the qualities of leadership, for they have been
very befittingly placed upon her, and she bore
them with grace and dignity—as a leader
among her sisters in the great Relief Society
work, which means the enlargement of wom-
an’s sphere, the legitimate activities of life.
	She lived the principles of the Gospel. She
laid everything on the altar of her faith and 
esteemed it not a sacrifice; in her heart the
Priesthood was always honored.
	Resolved, That we thank God for prophets,
seers and good men to lead us, and that we
also thank Him for the great women, who
have, lived in this dispensation, and who have
worked side by side with those who lead and
guide Israel.
	Resolved, That we will endeavor to be as
faultless, as she has been, that we may go
where she has gone. That we may be joined
with her in friendship, companionship, and in
the ties of closest fellowship. That we, with
all her loved ones (when our earthly work is
done), may find the emerald gates of paradise 
open for us as they are now open for her
whom we love.—Lulu J. H. Smith.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to letter the Home, the State and the Nation.

