
[handwritten at the top of the page] Elisabeth [---]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 39. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1910. No. 1.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Hospitality...............Julia P. M. Farnsworth		1
Philomela Smith Lake...S. T. Brimhall Foley		2
Farewell Address to the Relief Society..........
	.....................Romania B. Penrose			3
Testimony of Sister M. Isabella Horne.........		5
General Relief Society Conference..............
	...............................Emmeline B. Wells		6
The First Woman Physician........................		7
Farewell Social for President and Sister Pen-
	rose....................................................		8
Relief Society Stake Reports: Reorganization	3
	Liberty, Uintah....................................		8
In Memoriam.............................................		8
Notes and News...........................................		8
Editorial:—The Woman’s Exponent............		4
	Current Events...............................			4
	Editorial Notes......................................		4
	A June Wedding...................................		5
	Reception at the McCune Mansion.........	5
	Afternoon Social.................................		5
Poetry:—The Pioneers.............Ellis R. Shipp	1
	Our Mother's Songs..Emmeline B. Wells	3


THE PIONEERS.
Oft in sermon, song and story, hear we of the Pio-
	neers;
How our sires won lasting glory writ in blood, in
	graves, and tears.
Exiles for the Truths’ sake were they, far from
	plenty’ peace and home
Leaving all for cause most worthy, in the wilder-
	ness to roam.

Days and weeks and months they traveled over
	hill and barren plain
Driving lean and hungry cattle toiling on in hope
	and pain
Trav’ling far in midnight hushes grass and water
	to obtain.
Alkali and scanty rushes, often all that they would
	gain. 

They were led by inspiration as the dreary plain
	they trod,
Western shores their destination—Where they
	hoped to worship God
Unmolested and protected by the mountain bul-
	warks grand,
When the soil so long neglected, they’d subdued
	with hardy hand. 

Yet these days were not all sad ones, for there
	often came a time
When their hearts were light and gladsome,
	fraught with feelings most sublime. 
For in converse oft they’d gather round the camp
	fires ruddy glow,
Singing songs in faith together, light of Heavens’
	smile to know. 

Hope was bright within their bosoms, they were
	searching for a land
Seeu in inspirations Vision, past the deserts burn-
	ing sand. 
Where the great dead sea was washing lonely
	shores with saline spray,
There the Gospel everlasting could send forth sal-
	vation’s ray.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
			HOSPITALITY.
		JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.
	My dear sisters and friends here assem-
bled: I am happy to be present with you
today, and the subject I have to discuss is
one I am very fond of and much interested
in, for it is broad and far reaching. Mrs.
Julia McPair Wright classes hospitality as
“the queen of social virtues.”
	Order and neatness do not necessarily

[Column 2]
come under the title of hospitality; yet, a
home would certainly not be a very invit-
ing place for entertainment without these
two vital conditions in it. System and
cleanliness are indispensable but not wealth
or great display. The dear little house-
keeper—home-maker in her dainty print
dress with white collar, and nicely arranged
hair, looks much better to her family and
guests than one arrayed in silks or satin
and an elaborate headdress worn at an im-
proper time.
	The good breeding and right tact of a 
woman is always exhibited in her own home
more plainly than anywhere else, as also
the snob or parvenu. Education and cul-
ture are gained by environment, travel and
study, but purity, gentleness, modesty and
refinement of character are often ours by
right of inheritance, and fortunate are the
children who have been blessed with fathers
and mothers of God’s noble men and wo-
men, who were just, virtuous, honorable,
high souled people. For they haye given
and made the strength the intellectual
power as well as the religious and moral
development of our country, and who lend
to a nation the right kind, the safe and true
standard of hospitality.
	Our Americans since Colonial days and
their first President, George Washington was
host down to the most obscure citizen have
been noted for their cordiality to foreigners,
as well as their own subjects. The generals
of the Revolution, were renowned for their
great hospitality from the beginning to the
close of the seven years war.
	One instance that of Francis Marion
the great South Carolinian, while leading
his brave, but half starved and scantily
clothed army through the swamps and
mountain passes of the south was visited by
a young British officer to whom he gave the
best entertainment his larder afforded, al-
though it was only roasted potatoes served
on pine bark plates, and cold water in rusty
tin cups. History tells us this same young
English officer gave up his commission on
reaching the British headquarters and on
meeting Lord General Howe, saying to him,
“We can never conquer an army of soldiers
and men with commanders like General
Francis Marion!
	Our ambassadors of the diplomatic corps,
since the days of Benjamin Franklin, John
Marshall, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, and
John Adams have been liberal entertainers
abroad, as well as at home. And no coun-
try has given the world more courtly, more
beautiful types of characters as hostesses, of
cultured womanliness than Martha Custis
Washington, and the uncrowned queens of
America. Abigail Adams and Dolly Madi-
son, and in our own day Julia Dent Grant 
and Frances Folsom Cleveland.
	True hospitality is inborn, it comes spon-
taneous, and is prompted by a desire to
please, comfort and give happiness to oth-
ers.
	Our conference visitors should always re-
ceive kind, courteous hospitality from us,
and on the other hand, be considerate in our
homes and endeavor to conform to the rules
therein. For sisters, we have many obliga-

[Column 3]
tions, many domestic conditions to meet
that you in your country homes know not 
of. Our lives are not one sided; we have 
many phases in them. It is not only the
many conferences, but missionaries, going
to and from their various fields of labor,
temple workers, students attending state 
and Church schools, friends, yes, and
strangers going into and coming from the
city hospitals, persons attending conven-
tions of agriculture, stock raising, mining
and manufacturing, with the tourists who
frequent our city. Educational and legis-
lative assemblies in connection with re-
ligious, historical, patriotic, social and po-
litical meetings to attend, all of which
directly or indirectly draw on the time,
brain power and helpfulness of the city
mothers, more or less.
	Our intercourse with our sisters from every
direction, should be harmonious, there
should be a perfect understanding as to
business methods, and religious principles.
Love, respect and right hospitality will
cement and make stronger our influence.
	We as Relief Society workers can fully
testify to the correctness of this. Now
there are different grades of hospitality, but
the one we most admire is that which ema-
nates from genuine goodness of heart. This
we find when traveling from northern Cana-
da to southern Me[-]ico, from western Ore-
gon through Idaho, Utah, Wyoming and
Colorado, in fact in every place where a
branch of our Relief Society is found, and
where we missionaries visit. This often en-
tails much sacrifice and privation on the
part of our hostess, our entertainers; yet
they are gracious and courteous to us, they
have and are the good Samaritans in very
deed! for like the pioneer women in all
countries they are ready to divide or even
give the whole to the “stranger within their
gates.”
	Hospitality goes hand in hand with chari-
ty, ’tis ever thoughtful of the needs and de-
sires of others. ’Tis a proverbial saying
that the Relief Society in each city is the
emporium of hospitable consideration.
	Our homes are the first gardens in which
to cultivate this beautiful flower, for its
branches will run over its walls. ’Tis the
wives, mothers and daughters who give the
air of cultnre, beauty and suitability to the
home, fathers or brothers usually provide
the surroundings, the habitation, but they
can never give the interior what we find it,
without the intuition of woman’s gentler
hand.
	’Tis not in costly dwelling or magnificent
mansion, neither at the table where great
display of variety and luxury abound, where
the most perfect hospitality is to be found;
instead as we missionaries can tell you,
often in remote towns and small villages,
where the sweet-faced Relief sisters have
gathered to meet us, either in their Presi-
dent’s or some one of the modest homes, we
have found a hearty welcome, a generous
hospitality far surpassing any ostentatious
reception given by wealth or magnificence.
We knew we felt their true womanhood, their 
sincerity and that Christ-like spirit that
God’s influence in their homes insures.


[Column 1]
	Sisters, our officers and the General Board
do appreciate your labors, your indefatigable
work, your generous treatment to us in all
the stakes of Zion, yes, throughout the world!
	Our work for others is what develops
character, ennobles life, strengthens man
and womanhood, cultivates friendship,
unites families and makes good citizens.
	There are rights which belong to guests in
the home also host and hostess and hospi-
tality considers and respects these. In a
well ordered home and when ’tis possible,
there are provisions made for a guest cham-
ber, it should be supplied with the necessary
furniture and furnishings but not the private
necessities, these, such as night robes, dress-
ing sacks, combs, brushes, towels, toilet
soap, pins, etc., every lady is supposed to
carry in her suit case as indispensable arti-
cles, however, if through accident or forget-
fulness on our part, these are, or have to be
supplied by the hostess, they should be
used with care and left in good condition.
	When one enters a home ’tis the duty of
the guest to ascertain the time for the ser-
vice of every meal, and she should make it
her duty to be present on time, to keep a
dinner waiting unless for an excellent rea-
son, is almost unpardonable. Every well
bred woman takes good care of her bed and
every article in the room, if the hostess
has her own work to do, the guest should
attend to her private apartment. If we are
going to visit a friend or even a relative ’tis
our duty to write and ask if it will be con-
venient for them to receive us, and we
should also state the time we expect to re-
main, on returning write and thank our
hostess for the pleasant stay enjoyed at her
house. Presents should be recognized, if
accepted in the same way
	Under the head of hospitality we group
respectability, for no family with dignity
and an understanding rightly balanced can
possibly lack this qualification. In our im-
mediate home circle, we should always re-
spect the privacy, the feelings of every
member, as well as those of visitors, bring-
ing congenial persons together when possi-
ble Never allow sacred things or subjects
discussed or spoken lighty of, reverence age,
and teach our young people to respect gray
hairs, set an example of kind courtesy and
keep our promises to our children and live
within our means. Make our personal ap-
pearance and homes attractive, gain the
confidence of each member therein. Allow
our young people every proper privilege,
give hospitality to their friends, invite good,
pure, honorable young men and women to
partake of that, influence and we will soon
have fewer subjects for reform schools, and
many more white souls in the walks of use-
ful ambition and respectable citizenship.
	Sisters, we were organized to be the
saviors of souls as well as to look after the
poor, the needy, the sick and sorrowful, to
minister to the dying and lay out the dead.
	We stand as the mothers of all other sis-
ter associations in our Church, organized
sixty-eight years ago by our greatly beloved
Prophet Joseph Smith, he who suffered per-
secution, imprisonment, yes, martyrdom
that the Gospel of our Savior Jesus Christ
might be re-established never more to be
thrown down! Do we fully appreciate this
fact, do we realize the opportunities we to-
day enjoy? Are we loyal to this cause and
to each other? Does our hospitality have
that connected circumference that it should
have? Are we the model wives, mothers
and friends that our light and knowledge
guarantee? Do we treat our husbands with

[Column 2]
the love and respect which is their due? Are
we the guardians in spirit and discipline to
our children what we should be at all times?
Are we just benefactors to the girls we em-
ploy in our homes? Are we in religious,
domestic and social life the representative
women our credentials warrant?
	If we are not, let us eradicate every selfish
thought, study to improve by inculcating
every true and worthy motive, ask for in-
spiration to lead and direct our every act,
our Father is merciful and He will assist us.
	Let us study the needs and best methods
to assist the poor, teach them to be self-
supporting. Visit the aged, the old and
new members in the wards, the late con-
verts from foreign countries, be kind and
considerate of their feelings, let them know
we are their friends, also, the widow and
orphans.
	God is our Father and He will hold us ac-
countable, if one of His children is through
neglect or our folly lost by the way. We
have the Gospel to direct us, as the chil-
dren of ancient Israel had Moses to lead
them.
	Sisters, we are blessed above many wo-
men, we have advantages, unlimited privi-
leges, few of the women in the world today
possess therefore, our hospitality should
encompass the universe, for it will eventu-
ally aid in reaching the eternity, uniting all
factions, creeds, nations, and people for
’twill be everlasting.
	May our Heavenly Parent grant us the
power to understand our whole duty, and
that we may have strength to do it is my
earnest and sincere prayer.
						J. P. M. F.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		PHILOMELA SMITH LAKE.
	Among the many noble women who em-
braced the gospel in the early days of the
Church was Philomela Smith, daughter of
Parker Smith and Sally Loomis, she being
their sixth child, and born in Brookfield.
Prince Co., Vermont, April 13. 1794. At 
the age of twelve she was bereaved of her
mother and left to the care of her grand-
mother, Sarah Huntington Loomis, who,
although crippled with age, sat in her arm
chair and gave her daughter’s children the
benefit of her wise counsel in domestic
training, as also her deep religious convic-
tion, which was a natural result to all those
who were favored by a rich flow of Puritan
blood in their veins. Many of those splen-
did principles are embodied in the follow-
ing verses which have been handed down
to posterity by the poor lame grandmother
as she addressed herself to Philomela, who
was bereaved of a little brother.

	Your litlle brother is dead and gone:
	We all must die before ’tis long.
	And when you think he young did die
	Say, in the grave I soon may lie.

	And may you early learn to know
	Good children’s souls to God do go;
	At last their bodies sure will rise
	To dwell with Him above the skies.

	She also wrote the following acrostic for
Philomla.

	Pretty girls should always mind
	How they talk and spend their time.
	If they strive with all their might,
	Learn to spin, sew, read and write;
	Obey their parents and they’ll see
	Most glad they surely then will be.
	Every brother must be kind,
	Love sisters, too, and always mind
	And never quarrel or repine.

[Column 2]
	Some little girls are so pretty,
	Many would call them very witty.
	If they are proud they soon will know
	That shame is lurking there below,
	Hence friends will turn, they’ll find it so.

	Philomela, your poor, lame grandmother
has made and written this for you, and you
must have it rolled on a round stick and
keep it a long time to remember me by.
	Thus trained to love God and home, Phil-
omela was capable of taking upon herself
the duties of wife and mother. At the age
of eighteen years she married Ira Smith,
and with him became the mother of five
children viz.: Lyman, James Harvey, Eliz-
abeth Boardman, Josiah William and Es-
ther.
	Ira Smith died in the 36th year of his
age, Philomela then became the wife of
James Lake and with him again the mother
of ten children. She was a wise and loving
mother and was noted for the neatness and
order of her home. She was an adept in
all home manufacture. She knew the art
of spinning, and of dyeing the most beautiful
colors, and in the weaving of many kinds of
cloth she also excelled.
	Her fame as a maker of the best flavored
butter and cheese was known wherever her
name was heard.
	Her children partook of her meek and
docile yet lofty and noble nature and when
the gospel came to them in Upper Canada,
she with her husband and family were the
first ones to embrace it.
	Brigham Young took the gospel to them
and they were baptized by Eleazar Miller.
Their house was always a welcome place
for the elders traveling in Canada, Brigham
Young making their house his home for a
year or more. They gathered with the 
Saints and shared all the hardships of the
early days. James Lake with an ox team
and assisted by his sons, hauled the first
corner stone to the Kirtland Temple and
helped to lay it in its place as the begin-
ning of temple building in this dispensa-
tion.
	Philomela S. Lake received a Patriarchal
blessing under the hands of Joseph Smith,
the father of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, in
which he called her “Beloved of the Lord.”
which name was most appropriate, for she
was not only beloved of the Lord but by all
who knew her. She was tall and graceful,
with broad forehead and full dark brown
eyes. Her black hair was silken and luxur-
iant and the noble name of mother was ap-
propriate to her in its most dignified mean-
ing. Her husband was appointed Captain
of fifty and was successful in arriving in the
valley in the fall of 1850. They settled four
miles north of Ogden city on a farm. James
Lake was ordained a patriarch and many of
the saints of Weber county were comforted
through the blessing they received at his
hands. He was a member of the High
Council and with his wife enjoyed the honor
and esteem of all who knew them while al-
most worshiped by a numerous posterity,
members of which can be found in nearly
every settlement of the saints from Canada
to Mexico.
	I have often thought of the life and career
of my grandmother and have been led to
exclaim: 
	If every soul were of such worth,
	Nearer would heaven be to earth.
		SAMANTHA T. BRIMHALL FOLEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUR MOTHER’S SONGS.
Sing us the songs our mothers sung,
	Softly low, and o’er and o’er,
When our hearts were fresh, and we were young
	In beautiful days of yore.
The songs that linger in mem’ry dear,
And help us to live from year to year.

The mother’s song is a sweet refrain,
	Floating down the waves of time;
It soothed our childhood’s keenest pain,
	Tho’ ’twas only simplest rhyme,
And ever thro’ life’s dreariest days,
It cheers and gladdens loneliest ways.

Our mother’s songs of the long ago
	Wake old mem’ries here today,
Sing them tenderly, sweetly and low,
	List! the echoes far away,
Calling up scenes of days that are past,
Pictures in shadow, true to the last.

Sing for the veterans tho’ tears may come,
	Sing them songs both new and old,
Rejoice they’re here in their mountain home,
	Towers and temples they behold.
Valiant for truth that has made them free,
Life’s battle won—cometh victory.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	Written for July 24, 1909.


[Column 1]
FAREWELL ADDRESS TO THE RELIEF
			SOCIETY. 
	The time has arrived when I must leave
the shores of good old England and return
to the land of Zion. My associations with
the sisters have been most pleasant and
never to be forgotten. I thank our heavenly
Father for the success attending the organi-
zation of the sisters into societies after the
pattern set by our beloved prophet Joseph
Smith. His inspired words at several meet-
ings of the first organization, I look upon as
of the greatest value and importance. They
have to be read and re-read to perceive
their deep meaning. There have been forty-
six societies organized and four more are
ready at this time to be organized, in the
British mission. There were but three so-
cieties when I arrived in England. Over
six hundred women have enrolled their
names as workers in this great cause of re-
lief to the poor, sick and afflicted, and in a
bond of mutual improvement.
	Let each sister remember that she has an
unfailing friend and adviser in her Heaven-
ly Father who is ever near and whose ear is
always open to hear the prayers of all who
who ask in faith; also we have the presence
of the Priesthood to advice and consult with
on all matters of doubt, and we should abide
their decisions. We must avoid all schisms
and everything that may lead to division or
dissatisfaction. Union, love, harmony and
goodwill to each other are the watchwords
of our societies. Loyalty to the officers ap-
pointed by the Priesthood is a sacred duty,
and we should give them our faith and pray-
ers and support, The Lord can prepare the
weakest who works by faith and in humility
to fill any position to which she may be call-
ed.
	I advise you not to take pride in hoard-
ing a large sum in the treasury, but rather
to look about and see where good can be
done, and some one helped and comforted.
Each society should arrange its work as best
suited to the needs of the locality, and strive
to always have work or material on hand
for willing hands to fashion into useful gar-
ments or fancy articles for sale at bazaars
or socials.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith said we should
gain wisdom from good books. These should
be selected so as to be interesting as well

[Column 2]
as instructive. Do not fail to have testi-
mony meetings at least once a month, and
gently urge the timid to rise and bear their
testimony.
	Just a word to societies just organized.
Conduct your meetings with singing and
prayer, the president or other sister in charge
giving out the hymns. After roll call, the
minutes are read by the secretary, correc-
tions are called for by the president and
noted by the secretary, after which they are
accepted by vote. They are then recorded
by the secretary, and the society should
purchase a good sized book to contain the
records, as they are often very valuable for
future reference. All money collected must
be cared for by the treasurer, as she is res-
ponsible for it. She should record all re-
ceipts and disbursements so that she can
make her books balance and show how
much money has been received and how
much disbursed, and what is on hand. If
the president and counselors see the necess-
ity of using, at once, money coming into
their hands, they should let the treasurer
have the record of amount received and
disbursed. The president is not to conduct
the affairs of the society without advising
with her counselors, ag a rule, but in
emergencies she can decide herself. A
small sum such as a penny or more should
be given at each meeting by each member
able to do so, but the poorest is just as val-
ued a member as anyone. Make it a matter
of duty, a pleasant one, too, to attend the
meetings, and go with full expectation of
bringing home at least one good helpful
thought.
	We should all act as missionaries to
spread the light of the gospel that we our-
selves have obtained, and will it not be
both interesting and instructive to take up
the principles one by one at a time for
study? The more we investigate and med-
itate on them the more light we gain and
faith in their efficacy and truth. These
principles should be so impressed on our
children that they will almost count the
days when they will be eight years old and
can be baptized. It is now decided that
children after becoming eight years old and
not baptized must at nine years be denied
the Sacrament. It seems cruel and very
remiss in their duty of parents not to see to
it that the children are not deprived of that
blessing. Teach the girls and boys too,
not to be boisterous or forward in manners
nor given to loud laughter when together in
socials or after meetings. The Lord is
pleased with cheerfulness and harmless fun,
but he says that much laughter is sin. We
can be happy and have the best of times
without excess of any kind. Mothers, re-
member this and impress it upon the chil-
dren.
	Let us strive to overcome the small errors
of life, and soon we will gain strength to
grapple with the larger ones. Mothers, be
watchful of your girls and boys, and give
proper instructions according to their years
and development. Every girl should be
taught to sew and to cook and to keep a
clean and even an artistic home, and the
boys to do their share in keeping order and
comfort in the house. Mr. Louis Potter, an
eminent portrait painter, after spending
some time in Salt Lake City, said, “The
young girl who does not know how to make
her owu clothes and how to conduct a house-
hold on right lines, and also see about the
care of children is not truly a Mormon
girl.” Every girl who has the honor of be-
ing a Latter-day Saint should be an exam-

[Column 3]
ple in deportment and neatness of appear-
ance.
	I must now say farewell. I shall take
the names of the officers of the Relief So-
cieties home with me, and will be pleased
to hear occasionally of your success. I
shall watch the “Star” with interest for
your record. My home address is 1175
Ninth East Street, Salt Lake City. Love
to you all, and again farewell!
		ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


R. S. REPORTS.
		REORGANIZATION.
	Minutes of the 12th 13th Ward Relief
Society held May 5th, 1910, President
Amelia W. Wardrop presiding. Meeting
opened by singing, “Come, come ye Saints.”
Prayer was offered by Bishop P. B. Platt.
Singing again, “Redeemer of Israel.” Roll
call showed an attendance of 5 officers, 30
members and 3 visitors. Reports of the
different blocks were given.
	President Wardrop made a few opening
remarks. She felt very grateful to the sis-
ters for the interest shown in the Relief So-
ciety work. Sister Carrie C. Platt then re-
ported the condition of the sick at the hos-
pital which was very encouraging. Sister
Matilda King volunteered to make the next
visit.
	Bishop Platt spoke for a short time,
stated that President Wardrop wished to be
released from her position on account of
having moved out of the ward, and that it
was with a feeling of deep regret that he
consented as she had been a most faithful
worker in the Relief Society. An oppor-
tunity was then given to the sisters to ex-
press their feelings towards Sister Wardrop.
Nearly all the sisters present expressed their
great love and respect for her, and told of
the grand and noble work she had done and
that her absence would make them feel that
they had lost a very dear friend.
	Sister James of the General Board and
Counselor in the Stake was present and
spoke in behalf of Sisters Romney and Annie
K. Hardy that they felt sorry indeed to
know that Sister Wardrop was to leave the
society, and that they all have the greatest
love and respect for her, urged the members
to uphold and sustain the new officers.
	Sister Wardrop said she had enjoyed her
labors very much, and that she felt very
sorry to leave wishing the new officers
much success and pleasure in their new
position.
	Sister Mary Winder Carrington was then
sustained as President, Sister Jane E.
Beatie First Counselor and Sister Henrietta
E. Hammer Second Counselor, they were set
apart for the positions by Bishop F. B. Platt.
A vote of thanks was given to Sister Emily
Y. Clawson for the good and faithful work
as Counselor while in office.
	President Carrington and her Counselors
each spoke a few words, saying they felt to
accept their position and that they would
do the best they could to fill it properly.
	Sister Emily Y. Clawson expressed her-
self briefly, that although she had been re-
leased from the position as Counselor she
would still attend the meetings as often as
she could and be one with the sisters.
	Meeting adjourned. Congregation sung
the Doxology and the benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Emma Derrick.
		HULDAH D. ERICKSON, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
parie[--]space[-]one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to[-]regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, U[-]ah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. - - JUNE, 1910.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	This number of the paper commences a
new volume of the first woman’s paper in
the Rocky Mountain region. It is also the
first woman’s paper in the West, that has
been continued so many years. Several
other papers edited, and published by wo-
men have been started but have for some
reason been discontinued. However, we
can safely say without fear of contradiction
that this paper has made a good record in
assisting all the women of the West and es-
pecially the Latter-day Saint women in
keeping up with woman’s work along many
of its various lines.
	In the work of the Relief Society it has
been particularly helpful, and in giving
sketches of notable women, who helped in
the early days in organizing this great Relief
Society and other associations, the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary.
	In helping women in many ways too
numerous to mention in detail when Utah
women took part in the Columbian Exposi-
tion in 1893 and other national affairs.
In the Woman’s Suffrage Association and the
National Council of Women of the United
States, it was this little paper that rendered
valuable assistance, and the women of the
Church should sustain it more liberally and
help to make it a periodical much mor
valuable than it is at present, one they
would be proud to keep and to recommend.
	This number opens volume 39. June
marks 38 years since its first publication.
We believe there are many women in the
Relief Society who do appreciate what the
paper has done in the past, and might be
helpful by saying a word in its support
financially, because that is the one thing
lacking to make it a success.


[Column 1]
		CURRENT EVENTS.
	The month of June, 1910, has been a
record month in many respects, here in Salt
Lake City at least; the weather has been de-
lightful except for lack of rain, and many
pleasant and notable events have transpired.
	First day of June the anniversay of the
birth of the great pioneer and founder of
Utah, Brigham Young, was appropriately
celebrated by his numerous family, with the
usual rejoicing and due ceremony.
	Later on, the 14th of June, the anniversary
of the birth of Heber C. Kimball, the Coun-
selor and co-laborer of Brigham Young, two
men whose names will stand together in the
history of the Church and of Utah through-

[Column 2]
out all time; on Heber C. Kimball’s anni-
versary a reunion of the Kimball family was
held in Whitney Hall, and Kimballs, older
and younger came from far and near; and
many old friends and acquaintances at-
ended the reunion by invitation, to honor
the memory of one whose name will always
necessarily be handed down to posterity in
closest connection with that of the great
chieftain, Brigham Young.
	The exercises at the hall were of a digni-
fied character, music excellent, and speeches
somewhat historical; perhaps the most nota-
ble was that of the Governor of the State,
His Excellency William Spry, who eulo-
gized the memory of this great pioneer, and
earnestly exhorted his sons to follow his
noble example.
	The June conferences of the Young Ladies’
and Young Men’s Mutual Improvement As-
sociations were also of more than usual in-
terest this year; they were numerously at-
tended and seemingly great advancement is
being made in the work in which these young
people are so earnestly engaged; which is
very hopeful for Zion’s future interests and 
welfare.
	These two organizations united in a re-
ception held in their new and commodious
apartments or headquarters in the Bishop’s
Building, but the exercises and dancing were
in the banqueting hall on the upper floor of
this substantial and handsome structure;
the hall was decorated and fitted up suita-
ble to such a momentous occasion. The
reception was given more particularly in
honor of the officers and members from out-
side the city in the several stakes and
branches of Zion, and that they might soci-
ally partake of the festivities which would
bring them nearer together than it is possi-
ble to get in a meeting, or conference where
there is more or less formality and really no
time for becoming acquainted.
	The music was excellent and the decor-
ations were in good taste, and a spirit of
friendliness and good fellowship was the
prevailing feeling throughout. Invitations
were extended to the officers of other organi-
zations and the presiding authorities of the
Church to participate in the enjoyment of
the evening and meet with the young peo-
ple from a distance who have not so many
opportunities of this kind, as those who re-
side here.
	It has been currently reported that there
have been more marriages this June than
any previous record, whether that is correct
we are not prepared to say, but we know
 that there have been a great many, and that
is a hopeful sign of the times; and certainly
the city is growing rapidly and fast becom-
ing a great center in this mountain region.
	Thousands of tourists call at the Bureau
of Information and purchase our home liter-
ature, of which samples are daily given away
also, and one can see on every hand that
prejudice is being gradually removed, not-
withstanding the slanderous reports that are
still being circulated.
	The Primary Associations must not be
forgotten in connection with June festivities.
It is a very noticeable fact that the children
of the Latter-day Saints at the present day
are being entertained and instructed in all
that pertains to their best welfare. The
sisters who are engaged in this department
have every facility and advantage possible
to assist them along all the lines and meth-
ods that help to develop the best within the
child in mind and body. The annual con-
ference of the Primary Associations was held
early in June and the officers came, many

[Column 3]
of them, from long distances, and the Gen-
eral officers spared no pains in entertaining
as well as counseling them. A reception
was held in the headquarters in the Bishop’s
Building, and the upper room or banqueting
hall was decorated with flags, banners
and flowers, and made beautiful in every de-
tail. The General President, Mrs. Louie B.
Felt, who has served now thirty years, was
shown every mark of respect possible. Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, himself in his re-
marks on the evening of the reception made
special mention of her long service and mag-
nificent work. President Felt is very ably
assisted by Miss May Anderson, who re-
lieves her of much of the responsibily and
detail work, and Mrs. Clara Woodruff Beebe
and the secretary, Mrs Olive D. Christensen,
are specially qualified also, and the mem-
bers of the Board who travel in the interest
of the associations are very earnest and de-
voted women. In speaking of this Primary
work mention should be made of its found-
ers and especially of Sister Aurelia S. Rogers,
who was instrumental in evolving the
thought of an organization for the little peo-
ple besides the Sunday School, feeling that
was not quite adequate to all the needs of
helpful teaching of the youngest of the chil-
dren of Zion. The development of the 
thought is in a large degree due to others.
	The evening devoted to the Primary was
unique in its exercises and very pleasing;
new games, new dances, new ways of treat-
ing subjects, were given by some of the
young women who excel along these par-
ticular lines of training the infant mind.
Altogether there was much variety and
great improvement in the status of the work,
and much interest we believe has been
aroused by means of the display made of 
the efforts to teach by doing.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	At a recent meeting of the officers and
General Board of the Relief Society held at
their own headquarters in the Bishop’s Build-
ing, resolutions were adopted pledging the
society to use its influence everywhere
against the barbarous noises and ruinous
employment of fire and gunpowder which
has for some years past characterized the
great general holiday of the nation. The
Relief Society makes a direct appeal to its
membership in all branches and stakes of
this great philanthropic institution to stand
for a sane and safe observance of the na-
tional holiday, as they do for peace and
good order at all times.
	June 17th, 1910, was the 87th anniversary
of the venerable and well beloved sister,
Julia Cruse Howe A beautiful afternoon
recepti[-]n was tendered her by her sons and
daughters-in law at the residence of C. R.
Howe in the 17th Ward in this city. The
decorations were very artistic, flowers every-
where and the rooms were as pretty as if
prepared for a bride. Such honor shown to
the aged mother is very pleasing and an ex-
ample that it might be well for others to
follow. Refreshments were served to all
guests throughout the afternoon by the
young girls of the Howe family assisted by
their young companions, and music instru-
mental and vocal added to the pleasure of
those who called to pay their respects to
this worthy woman. Sister Howe was un-
tiring in her labors for the public welfare
until age and some of its natural infirmities
compelled her to relinquish one after an-
other of the positions she had filled with


zeal and credit to the work and to all con-
cerned therein. May life be sweet to her
while she remains here on earth and friends
and relatives make her days serenely happy
and comfortable.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A JUNE WEDDING.

“Wedded love is founded on esteem,
Which the fair merits of the mind engage,
For those are charms which never can decay;
But time which gives new whiteness to the swan,
Improves their lustre.”

	Wednesday June 22nd, 1910, the marriage
of Margaret Cannon and David H. Clayton, Jr.
was solemnized in the Salt Lake Temple at
high noon. The ceremony was performed
by President Joseph F. Smith.
	An informal reception was held from 3 to
5 the same afternoon at the home of the
bride’s parents, General and Mrs. John Q.
Cannon. The simple decorations were in
yellow and green, mustard blossoms and
foliage being much in evidence and attrac-
tively displayed with other simple flowers
and vines. The bride carried a bouquet of
white roses and was beautifully gowned in
simple white muslin and lace; she looked
as charming as the most beautiful Marguer-
te of the poet Tennyson.
	There were Cannons and Wells’s and
Claytons and Browns, and others to offer
congratulations and good wishes, and desires
for their long life and happiness; and when
the reception was over amidst the whirl of
excitement the carriage was announced and
the bride and groom departed on their wed-
ding journey, with showers of rice and an
abundance of old shoes flung after them by
the little folks of the family. There were no
regrets and only a few tears for when the
young girl leaves her home, there is always
a loneliness in the hearts of the parents
however bright the future prospects may be.

	Let fools spurn Hymen’s gentle powers,
	We who improve its golden hours,
	By sweet experience know
	That marriage rightly understood,
	Gives to the tender and the good
		A paradise below.


RECEPTION AT THE McCUNE MANSION.
	The Genealogical Society of Utah gave a
grand reception and musicale at the elegant
residence of Hon. and Mrs. A. W. McCun[-]
on Wednesday evening, June 15th, 1910.
The elegant home opened its doors to a very
large number of the citizens of Utah. Three
thousand cards of invitation were issued
and many responded, the President of the
Society, the Right Hon. Anthon H. Lund,
and the Vice President, Joseph F. Smith,
Jr. were present in person, and Elder Ben-
jamin H. Goddard, the active agent of this
mportant work, was one of the committee
busy in anticipating the wishes of all to take
part in the pleasures of the evening.
	The music was exquisite and the floral
decorations were artistic as well as fragrant,
but the home in itself was the one attrac-
tion to those who had an opportunity to see
all the beautiful furnishings and adorn-
ments. One might fancy being in an old
castle or abbey of the 15th century so far as
elegance and sumptuousness, only that
everything bears the stamp of modern times.
The hall in the upper story is so unique in
tself that the dancing seemed a second con-
sideration though the music was charming.
	The committee of ladies were very atten-
tive and solicitous to have all the guests
meet the hostess and the principal people


interested in this wonderful society, and al-
together the evening entertainment was a
perfect success; but it is doubtful in our
mind whether those present comprehended
much of the vast magnitude of the work
this new society represents. 
	If an incentive to become members and 
enter into the spirit of this far-reaching sal-
vation-promoting organization has been
given through bringing together such a large
number of people, then the entertainment
has been a great step in the advancement of 
what is to be accomplished in work for the
dead in the Temples of the Lord.


AFTERNOON SOCIAL. 
	On Thursday afternoon, June 30th, a party
of old acquaintances met at the Bee Hive
House by invitation of Mrs. Julina L. Smith
and Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler. It was a
beautiful day, and the warm welcome given
by the hospitable hostesses was very sugges-
tive of the enjoyment to follow. The Smith
girls were very attractive and gracious in
waiting upon the guests.
	The meeting of those who had not had
such an opportunity recently of conversing
together was delightful, and one could not
help recalling the old Scotch song, “Should
auld acquaintance be forgot and never
brought to mind.” However the guests
were entertained with fine music, Marion
Whitney Dinwoodey, a gifted contralto
celebrity, sang several times accompanied
by Miss Sybella Clayton, whose fame as a
pianist is widespread also a number of old-
time songs were delightfully sung by Miss
Glen Thomas. The music added greatly to
the entertainment of the ladies.
	An old-fashioned hot and sumptuous din-
ner was one of the delightful features of the
afternoon, and was thoroughly enjoyed by
all present, who did ample justice to the
well-cooked viands.
	Remembrances of Nauvoo and pioneer
days in the valley were talked over during
the afternoon, and the hours flew swiftly.
Such occasions are rare, but it is good to
meet together socially, and recall the hal-
cyon days of youth, even more than the
hard times.
	Of the number of ladies present at this
unique gathering twelve had lived in Nau-
voo, Sisters Agnes Taylor Swartz, Mary Ann
Oakley Taylor Lucy Walker Kimball, Delia
Ann Bishop Pratt, Emmeline B. Wells,
Hannah Free Wells, Susan Alley Wells,
Margaret Judd Clawson, Susan West Smith,
Jane Pratt Kesler, Emma Smith Woodruff,
Sarah Jenne Cannon.
	The other ladies present were Julia Cruse
Howe, Elizabeth Murphy, Margaret Y. Tay-
lor, Priscilla P. Jennings, Rachel B. Patrick,
Katherine Howard Brockbank, Mahala Jen-
kins, Sarah E. Richards Smith. The after-
noon will be long remembered and the kind-
ly feeling that prompted it in the hearts of
mother and daughter will be cherished while
life lasts by all who participated in the
pleasurable enjoyment,


[Column 1]
TESTIMONY OF SISTER M. ISABELLA
			HORNE.
	Having been requested by the late Apos-
tle Abraham Owen Woodruff, some months
prior to his death, to leave my personal
testimony io my children concerning the
life, character, labors and mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, as well as the divin-
ity of the covenant of plural marriage. I
cheerfully comply as follows:

[Column 2]
I first met the Prophet Joseph Smith in
the fall of 1837, at my home in the town of
Scarborough, Canada West.
	When I first shook hands with him I was
thrilled through and through, and I knew
that he was a Prophet of God, aud that tes-
timony has never left me, but is still strong
within me, and has been a monitor, to me,
so that I can now bear a fnithful testimony
to the divinity of the mission of that great
man of God.
	During the three days’ series of meetings,
held in a new barn which your father had
built, the Prophet made his home with us.
The use of this barn became a necessity,
because the Methodists, who were bitterly
opposed to us, refused to let their churches
to the Prophet and Saints.
	As an example of Brother Joseph’s hu-
mility as well as his respect for authority, I
mention the following: As soon as he reached
Toronto. Canada, he inquired who the pre-
siding officer was. On learning that it was
the late President John Taylor, the Prophet
said, “Send for him, as I desire to hold a
meeting with the people.” When President
Taylor arrived, Brother Joseph said, “Broth-
er Taylor, I am the Prophet Joseph. I want
you to call a meeting, as I would like to"
talk to the Saints.”
	While in Canada he visited all the branch-
es of the Church, and gave the Saints in-
structions on the organization and order of
the priesthood, respect for proper authority,
corrected some of the mis-translations of
the Bible, and took pleasure in answering
questions pertaining to the gospel and the
organization of the Church. Brother and
Sister Taylor, your father and I enjoyed the 
privilege of accompanying the Prophet on
these visits.
	On one occasion, while eating dinner at
the residence of Brother John Scott, the
Prophet jocularly said to me, “Sister Horne,
you are literally fulfilling scripture, aren’t
you?” ‘‘How is that, Brother Joseph?’’ I
asked. “You are bearing the Homes of
Joseph to push the people together,” he re-
plied. This created mueh laughter among
the guests,
	During the year following the Prophet’s
visit to Canada, your father and I removed
to the United States, and finally settled in
Quincy, Illinois.
	In compliance with a revelation from the
Lord commanding him to lay our grievances
before the Judges, Governors, and even the
President of the United States, the Prophet
Joseph in company with a number of the
brethren, came to Quincy, and the Prophet
laid the condition of the affairs of the Church
before Governor Carlin.
	On his return from his visit to Governor
Carlin, the Prophet sent the brethren ahead
on their return trip, telling them he would
follow later. When he reached Lima, where
they intended to remain over night, he found
officers of the law awaiting him. They ar-
rested him and brought him back to Quincy.
This was Friday Evening. About noon the
next day, the Prophet came to our house and
said, “Siser Horne, the Spirit always draws
me to your home.”
	“Brother Joseph,” I said,“you are always
welcome. But how is it you are here when I
thought you were almost home?”
	“Haven’t you heard that I have been in
court all morning?” he asked. 
	I replied that I had not.
“Well, I have,” he said, “I told the offi-
cers that I would be forthcoming at any
hour in the morniug they might name, if
they would let me go, so here I am. What


am I to do? They won’t let me have my
trial in Nauvoo, but are going to take me
to Walla Walla. I thought I should be
at home by this time where my wife would
look after my clothing, as it is in need of
attention.
	“I will wash your clothing,” I answered.
	“Indeed, Sister Horne, you do not look
able to do it.”
	I insisted, and he finally consented, as I
told him my Saturday’s work was all done.
I prepared his clothing that afternoon, so
that he was ready for his journey in the
morning.
	Sister Cleveland, who had heard of the
Prophet’s arrest, came to see him, and met
him at the door just as he was leaving. As
she shook hands with him she began speak-
ing in tongues. Brother Joseph listened
until she had finished, then turned to us
and said, “You need have no fears for me;
as Sister Cleveland says I shall have my
trial and be acquitted.”
	He was acquitted, and was received with
great honors on his arrival at his home.
	The last time I shook hands with the
Prophet was at the Mansion Honse, on an
occasion when I had called to see part of
the family.
	I testify that Joseph Smith was the great-
est Prophet that ever lived on this earth,
the Savior only excepted. There was a
personal magnetism about him which drew
all people who became acquainted with
him to him.
	I feel greatly honored when I realize that
I have had the privilege of personally en-
tertaining this great man, of ministering to
his temporal wants, of shaking hands with
him, and listening to his voice. I heard
him relate his first vision, when the Father
and Son appeared to him; also his receiving
the gold plates from the Angel Moroni. This
recital was given in compliance with a
special request of a few particular friends
in the home of Sister Walton, whose house
was ever open to the Saints. While he was
relating the circumstances the Prophet’s
countenance lightened up, and so wonder-
ful a power accompanied his words that
everybody who heard them felt his influence
and power, and none could doubt the truth
of his narration. I know that he was true
to his trust, and that the principles he ad-
vanced and taught are true.
	I solemnly testify that I know that the
principle of plural marriage is true; that it
came direct from God. I have had evidence
of its truthfulness, and have lived in it for
nearly fifty years. I counsel all my poster-
ity to avoid condemning or making light of
this sacred principle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

GRNERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
		SECOND DAY.
The Relief Society Conference convened
Saturday morning, April 2, 1910, in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this city, Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing “Come, come, ye
Saints,” prayer by Sister R. A. Lyman, sing-
ing "Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire."
	Dr. George W. Middleton delivered an in-
teresting and instructive address, on Tuber-
culosis, its prevention, etc. The learned
Dr. prefaced his remarks by saying he ap-
preciated the privilege of speaking to the
Relief Society, and was always proud of this
organization of women who are working in
the best interests of humanity. Dr. Mid-
dleton gave many excellent facts and figures,

[Column 2]

and the most earnest warning to all to use
methods of sanitation and prevention; he
informed his audience that in times of war
more soldiers die of the infection of the
camps than are killed in the battle, he men-
tioned by way of illustration that the Japan-
ese had put this knowledge to a test in the
war with Russia—for ten years the Japanese
had young men studying in the colleges, all
things pertaining to sanitation and bacteri-
ology, and stated that if an army invaded
our country and one-half the number should
be killed that die annually from tubercu-
losis infection, we would be aghast. The
lecturer occupied an hour’s time and was
listened to with the greatest interest, many
of the ladies taking notes. The Dr. closed
his address by mentioning a book that is
now adopted by the State Board of Educa-
tion,and he hoped would be adopted by our
General board of the Relief Society. The
book is entitled "Primer of Sanitation, by
Ritchie." In recommending the book the
Dr. added, "If we lived up to the knowledge
we possess we could stamp out this terrible
plague. The opportunity that has come to
this Relief Society to stretch out for the suf-
ferings of our fellow men is beyond expres-
sion." After the lecture the conference di-
vided into department meetings, viz: Sec-
retaries and Treasurers, Mother’s work, and
Nurse class work, for an hour’s consultation
on these subjects.

	AFTERNOON SESSION.

	Conference convened in the Assembly
Hall at 2 p. m., President Bathsheba W.
Smith presiding. Congregation sung "Glori-
ous things of Thee are spoken." Prayer by
Sister Susan Grant. Prof. Horace S. Ensign
rendered a solo.
	General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells
made the opening address: the subject,
“The Relief Society,” which is so broad and
comprehensive that there is never time for
the half to be told, the 17th of March, 1910,
was the 68th anniversary of its organization,
there were just eighteen persons present on
that occasion, but they were selected for
this purpose, choice women fitted to under-
take this wonderful philanthropic, benevo-
lent work. From this select coterie of ladies
has sprung and spread abroad this magnifi-
cent society, numbering nearly 40,000 wo-
men in our own and foreign lands, and upon
the islands of the sea. The development
of women in many directions of thought and
work and the advancement that has charac-
terized the movement in uplifting the mind
and soul is incalculable. What the world
owes to the idea of womans’ organizations
is immeasurably greater than we have ever
attempted to claim. But we do know we
were the first to be organized in this way,
and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was the
founder of this Relief Society, and that we
owe much to Brigham Young who set the
example of unifying the work in branches
and stakes, and to Sister Eliza R. Snow and
her co-workers in carrying out the plan of
correlating so perfectly all the district or-
ganizations of the same kind into one solid
whole with divisions and subdivisions.
The speaker explained why the Relief
Society did not have a general outline of
Mother’s work for the entire society, and
stated that it was to help educate and de-
velop the sisters in their own locality by
doing the thinking and studying of the sub-
jects required, which is all helpful to the
mind and heart. The address closed with
a tribute to the early workers, the great wo-
men of the past, who have enriched our

[Column 3]

lives by their genuine public efforts and per-
sonal self-sacrifice for others, and by the as-
sociation among the people of their own
localities, these few words and much more.
Recitation by Ardella Tibby, "The Soul
of the Violin."
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth gave an in-
teresting paper on Hospitality, which we
publish in full on another page.
	Soprano solo by Lizzie Thomas Edward,
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams spoke on "Ex-
tremes." The speaker felt she had a diffi-
cult subject to deal with and alluded to the
fact which seems apparent that our leaders
were desirous, that the Latter-day Saints
should be as nearly perfect as mortals can
be. The Prophet began the reform by giv-
ing the Saints the “Word of Wisdom.”
Now scientists are taking up the subject
and claim that life would be longer if we
were not such extremists. Nature is mod-
erate in all its actions; the seasons prepare
the earth for the work it has to do. Re-
member Brigham Young, realizing the wo-
men had given too much attention to dress
and to food, organized Retrenchment Asso-
ciations; if there is a place where women
are extremists it is in the work they do; we
should maintain as much simplicity in our
households as it is possible to do. I have
never seen women manage their work like
our women who are called to so much pub-
lic work, but the Lord helps us to do our
duties in the home as well as our Church
duties. In the city conditions are very dif-
ferent to what they are in the country. The
moving picture shows, the resorts running
all night or nearly so, draw our children,
and it is hard to curtail children’s amuse-
ments. Nearly every night there are diver-
sions for the young people; and I believe
that the Latter-day Saint women are not in-
clined to over-dress, they want things beau-
tiful and neat, but not extravagant, and I
do not think it necessary to speak of this
subject, we are moderate, we try to observe
the Word of Wisdom and to obey counsel
of those wiser than we are; but the problem
is before us and we must adjust conditions
as best we can. The speaker closed with a
prayer for our welfare and faithful perform-
ance of our duties required of us from time
to time.
	Emma Woodruff, President of Granite
Stake Relief Society, was to discuss the topic
“Extremes,” she announced that she was
not a preacher but a worker, she believed
in the Relief Society work, and to do all
that is required of us; thought we were try-
ing to do right and live our religion.
	Sister Harriet B. Harker referred to Sister
E. B. Wells’ remarks about the younger
women preferring to remain in the Young
Ladies’ M. I. A., she wondered if we made
our meetings as interesting and as profitable
as we might, for there could be no reason
why they should not join the Relief Society
at the proper age. Sister Harker quoted
from Paul, "We should be temperate in all
things," and remarked those words are just
as true today as when they were uttered.
Extremes in any thing are not profitable.
Let us not have "fads" nor extremes of any
sort; we often hear of people who are ex-
tremists in this and that direction, but let
us remember to be temperate and moderate
and as wise as possible.
	Sister Amy Brown Lyman felt very much
interested in the Relief Society work, though
she was quite new in it, she appreciated
the fact that we needed this relief work,
this work to develop us. Sister Lyman
mentioned the subject of purity, and that


this Church had always taught equal purity
in men and women a fact to which the world
was but just awakening.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne presented a reso-
lution on Home Products, to the effect that
we use our efforts and influence to sustain
all home products in preference to others.
Resolution was passed unanimously by the
entire assembly. Congregation sung, "We
thank thee, O God, for a prophet. Benedic-
tion by Sister Julina L. Smith.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Secretary.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
Secretary pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE FIRST WOMAN PHYSICIAN.
	Dr. Elizabeth Blackwel[-], the first woman
to take the degree of M.D., passed away on
May 31, 1910, at her home in Hastings, Eng-
land, aged nearly 90 years.
	Elizabeth Blackwell was born near Bristol,
England, on February 6, 1821. She was the
daughter of Samuel and Hannah (Lane)
Blackwell. Her father was a sugar refiner,
much respected for his high character, a man
of progressive ideas, and in favor of repub-
lican institutions. He sailed with his fam-
ly for America in 1832, and engaged in
sugar-refining in New York. He was warm-
ly interested in the anti-slavery movement,
and in 1838 moved to Cincinnati, Ohio,
partly with the hope of introducing the cul-
tivation of beet sugar, and thereby making
the slave grown cane-sugar unprofitable. But
he died soon after reaching Cincinnati, leav-
ing a widow and nine children dependent on
their own exertions.
	The mother and the older daughters, of
whom Elizabeth was the third, opened a lit-
tle school. Later, Elizabeth taught a dis-
trict school in Henderson, Ky., also taking
private pupils in music and languages. She
was a successful teacher, and received much
social attention, but the frivolous character
of the young men she met did not attract
her. In a letter home, replying to a sug-
gestion that she might marry in Henderson-
she wrote: "I cannot find any other half
here, but only about a sixth, which would
not do."
	Elizabeth was first led to turn her atten-
tion to medicine by the case of a lady friend
who died of a painful illness, of such a na-
ture that it was a severe distress to her mod-
esty to have to receive treatment from a
male physician. She often told Elizabeth
that she would have given anything to be
able to go to a woman doctor.
	Elizabeth wrote to several physicians and
other persons of more or less distinction,
consulting them as to her plan. She said:
“The answers were curiously unanimous.
They all replied to the effect that the idea
was a good one, but that it was impossible
to accomplish it.”
	Dr. Warrington, an old Quaker physician
of Philadelphia, wrote: “I have personally
applied to some of the most intelligent and
liberal-minded ladies of my acquaintance
how far the services of a well-educated fe-
male physician would be appreciated by
them. The response uniformly is, ‘No fe-
male could become acceptable to us, either
as a teacher or practitioner of medicine.”
	But the young girl was, not to be discour-
aged. She went, in 1845, to teach in a
school at Asheville, N. C., kept by a Rev.
John Dickinson, who had previously been a
doctor. Here she studied medicine private-

[Column 2]
ly under him in the intervals of her teaching.
It was before the time of railroads, and two
of her brothers drove her from Cincinnati to
Asheville, eleven days’ journey, crossing
three ranges of mountains and several rivers.
Later, Dr. Samuel H. Dickson, a distin-
guished physician and a professor in the
Medical College of Charleston, S. C., ob-
tained her a position as music teacher in
the fashionable boarding school of Mrs. Du
Pre, in that city, and himself directed the
medical studies that she carried on in her
spare hours.
	In 1847, she went to Philadelphia with
her small savings, studied anatomy under
Dr. Allen, and applied for admission to each
of the four medical col[-]eges of that city; but
in vain. Dr. Pankhurst, professor of sur-
gery in the largest college in Philadelphia,
offered to admit her to his classes, on con-
dition that she would disguise herself as a
man. This she refused to do. Some friends
told her she would have to go to Paris to
study; others said Paris was so immoral that
it would be impossible for a young unmar-
ried woman to take a medical course there.
She said to one of these: “If the path of
duty led me to hell I would go there and
do not think that by being with devils I
should become a devil myself.” She also
wrote to Mrs. Willard of Troy: “I must ac-
complish my end. I consider it the noblest
and most useful path that I can tread, and
if one country rejects me I will go to an-
other.”
	Application to the large medical schools
of New York also proving unsuccessful, she
sent requests for admission to twelve of the
country colleges, including Geneva Univer-
sity (now Hoba[-]t College). Geneva con-
sented. Dr. Stephen Smith, who was a
member of that year’s medical class at Gen-
eva, published in the Church Union some
years ago an account of the matter. He
says that the faculty did not wish to receive
her, and they referred the question to the
class, with a proviso that if a single student
objected, she should not be admitted. The
class consisted of about 150 young men.
He says: "They were rude, boisterous and
riotous beyond comparison. On several oc-
casions the residents of the neighborhood
sent written protests to the faculty, threat-
ening to have the college indicted as a nui-
sance if the disturbance did not cease. Dur-
ing lectures it was often almost impossible
to hear the professors.”
	Of Elizabeth’s application, Dr. Smith
says:
	"The whole affair assumed the most ludi-
crous aspect to the class, and the announce-
ment was received with the most uproarious
demonstrations of favor. A meeting was
called for the evening, which was attended
by every member. The resolution approv-
ing the admission of the lady was sustained
by a number of the most extravagant speech-
es, which were enthusiastically cheered. The
vote was finally taken, with what seemed to
be one unanimous yell. ‘Yea!’ When the
negative vote was called, a single voice was
heard uttering a timid ‘No.’ The scene that
followed passed description. A general rush
was made for the corner of the room which
emitted the voice, and the recalcitrant mem-
ber was only too glad to acknowledge his
error and record his vote in the affirmative.”
	“At a meeting of the entire class of Gen-
eva Medical College, held this day, Oct. 20,
1847, the following resolutions were unani-
mously adopted;
	1. Resolved that one of the radical prin-

[Column 3]
ciples of a Republican Government is the
universal education of both sexes; that to
every branch of scientific education the door
should be open equally for all; that the ap-
plication of Elizabeth Blackwell to become
a member of our class, meets our entire ap-
probation; and in extending our unanimous
invitation we pledge ourselvos that no con-
duct of ours shall cause her to regret her at-
tendance at this institution.”
	“Two weeks or more elapsed, and as the
lady student did not appear, the incident of
her application was quite forgotten, and the
class continued in its riotous career. One
morning, all unexpectedly, a lady entered
the lecture room with the professor. She
was quite small of stature, plainly dressed,
appeared diffident and retiring, but had a
firm and determined expression of face.
Her entrance into the Bedlam of confusion
acted like magic upon every student. Each
hurriedly sought his seat, and the most ab-
solute silence prevailed. For the first time,
a lecture was given without the slightest
interruption. The sudden transformation
of this class from a band of lawless desper-
adoes to gentlemen, by the mere presence
of a lady, proved to be permanent in its ef-
fects. A more orderly class of medical
students was never seen than this, and it
continued to be to the end of the term.”
	She soon won the esteem of students and
professors, but she was ostracised by Geneva
society. A doctor’s wife at her boarding
house refused to speak to her, Women
passing her on the streets held their skirts
aside.
	The press commented humorously on the
phenomenon of a girl studying medicine.
The Baltimore Sun remarked that she should
confine her practice to diseases of the heart.
The Boston M[-]dical Journa[-] said: “She is a
pretty little specimen of the feminine gen-
der, reporting her age as 26. She comes
into the class with great composure, takes
off her bonnet and puts it under the seat,
exposing a fine phrenology- The effect on
the class is good, and great decorum is ob-
served while she is present.”
	During the summer vacation she studied
in the women’s department of the great
Blockley Almshouse in Philadelphia. The
head physlcian, Dr. Benedict, showed her
much good will, but the young resident
physicians were unfriendly, and when she
walked into any ward they walked out,
They even ceased to write the diagnosis and
treatment of the patient on the card at the
head of each bed, as had been the custom,
so she was thrown wholly on her own re-
sources. But she managed to learn a great
deal.
	To her anxious mother she wrote: "Do
not fear for me. I live simply, do my duty,
trust in God, and mock at the devil.”
	At the almshouse the problems connected
with the social evil were for the first time
brought strongly to her attention. She
wrote to her sister: “I do not know if I have
ever told you how deep this matter of licen-
tiousness has gradually sunk into my soul,
and that the determination to wage a war
ef extermination with it strengthens con-
tinually, and the hope of gaining power and
experieuce to do it worthily is one of my
strongest supports in action. So help me
God, I will not be blind, indifferent or stupid
in relation to this matter, as are most women.
The world can never be redeemed till this
central relation of life is placed on a truer
footing.” Elizabeth graduated at the head
of her class.—Boston Woman's Journal,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL SOCIAL FOR PRESIDENT AND
			SISTER PENROSE.
	
	On Friday evening, June 10th, a most ex-
cellent social was held in honor of President
and Sister Penrose previous to their depart-
ure for Zion.  The hall at Durham House
was well filled with visitors and an excellent
program was rendered.  At the close of the
program, to each of the guests was presented 
a valuable and very beautiful ring, a token
from the Elders in all the European mission,
the sisters of the Relief Society and Saints
and friends of the various branches in these
isles.  The rings were each set with one
large pure white diamond purchased in
Amsterdam.  President Thatcher of the
Netherlands-Belgium mission gave his good
offices in the purchase of the gems, assisted
by a diamond merchant of thirty years ex-
perience, an uncle of Elder Korthals of that
mission.  After a half day spent in examin-
ing stones in one of the biggest emporiums
in Amsterdam, two were selected which the
expert, Elder Korthals’ uncle, declared to 
be absolutely perfect in every detail.  It
was a pleasure to be able to present such
gems to our honored guests and the re-
sponses were made with great feeling.  After
all other parts of the program had been 
gone through with, refreshments of cake and 
sandwiches, ice cream of strictly American
make, and strawberries were served.  It was 
a delightful evening in every respect.— Mil-
lennial Star.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society convened June 23rd,
1910, in the Ninth Ward meetinghouse,
President Annie S. Musser presiding.
	Elder Hugh J. Cannon, President of
Liberty Stake, Elders C. W. Symons and
Milando Pratt of the High Council. Sisters
E. S. Wilcox and A. K. Hardy, of the Gen-
eral Board of the Relief Society were present.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox gave us some
timely instructions. President Cannon and
Elder Symons each spoke briefly giving us
some good advice and words of encourage-
ment and comfort.
	The afternoon session convened at 2 o’clock
Judge Alex. McMaster of the Juvenile Court
delivered a very interesting and instructive
lecture on existing conditions and how to
overcome the evils which exist today. The
Judge was listened to with much interest.
	Sisters Annie K. Hardy and E. S. Wilcox
addressed us for a short time endorsing all
that had been done and said.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to make
our conference a success. After singing and
benediction conference adjourned for six
months.
					Lizzie Robbins, Sec.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the fifty-first regular quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of Uintah
Stake, held at Glines Ward, June 2nd, 1910,
beginning at 10 a. m., President Nancy A.
Colton presiding.
	After opening exercises minutes, roll call,
etc. President Nancy A. Colton welcomed
the brethren and sisters, was pleased to see
so many of the Relief Society workers pres-
ent, especially the President of Roosevelt
(from the reservation); spoke of Mothers

[Column 2]
Work and what a great good it was doing,
especially among the young mothers.
	Lecture on Church History by Mrs. Alice
Merrill of Maeser Ward, which was very ably
handled.
	Song, “When there’s love at home.”
	Mrs. May Y. Lambert felt well in meeting
with the sisters, it being the first time she
had had the privilege of being to a Relief
Society conference, she also reported the
Roosevelt society in good condition.
	Mrs Annie K. Bartlett spoke of the lecture
we had listened to. The revelation that we
had just listened to; encouraged us to press
onward and do all the good we can, encour-
aged the sisters to be diligent in getting the
lectures given us, spoke of what a great
blessing the Church school was to the com-
munity.
	Singing, and benediction by Mrs. Fannie
E. Stewart.
	Afternoon session: continued, singing and
prayer and song from Vernal First Ward by
Mrs. Minnie Davis accompanied by Mrs.
Myrtle Belcher.
	Essay from Jensen Ward by Mrs. Mary A.
Chatwin entitled “Temperance.”
	In the absence of Mrs. Emma Woods who
was to give the lecture on Mothers Work,
Mrs. Anna Smart volunteered to give it.
Lecture entitled “The home as a factor in
education.”
	Questions on the lecture were asked by
Mrs. Fannie E. Stewart and answered by the
brethren and sisters.
	Song from Maeser Ward by a group of
Relief Society workers. Recitation by Mrs.
Grace Colton, title “Once More.”
	President Colton made a few closing re-
marks, urged the sister to try and put what
they had heard into practice. Thanked the
sisters of Glines Ward for their hospitality.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
	Bishop Joseph McKee thought we had
food for thought, if we will only put it into
practice we will be greatly benefitted, he
spoke at some length on reverence.
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham thought we
should try and put what we had heard into
practice; spoke of the mission of mothers.
Singing, “Our Lord we raise to Thee.” Bene-
diction by Elder Ernest Eaton.
			Phebe A. Merkley, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
	To the Memory of our beloved Sister Ellen. D. 
Clarke. Who passed away at her home in Amer- 
ican Fork, April 13th, 1910. Aged 70 years No-
vember 22nd.
	In being called upon to part with Sister Clarke
we realize that a very dear Friend, has been ta-
ken from our midst; one who was always ready
to help, to comfort, or to contribute of her means
for the benefit of others. Her home was open at
all times, and a warm welcome accorded the call-
er. We feel to bow in humility to the rod. But
Oh how we miss her kind hand, and her gentle
presence, her word of kindness and the sweet
spirit accompaning it. It is hard to be reconciled
to our loss.
	Her seat in our meeting is empty. Her pray-
ers and testimony will be heard no more in our
midst. But the work she has done, and the bless-


ings she has bestowed upon her sisters will be
long remembered, her sayings will be cherished
and her good deeds emulated. She has finished
her work and gone to her rest, leaving a family
of faithful, dutiful, sons and daughters, who
will continue her labors, and help keep her mem-
ory green.
	We who have been associated with her for so many
years know her sterling worth, and we realize that
her loss leaves a vacancy in our hearts that will
not be filled until we meet her in that home,
where there is no sorrow and where parting never
comes. Sister Clarke was a great advocate of seri-
culture having raised the cocoons, reeled the silk
and made silk dresses for herself and daughters.
Truly it may be said of her she sustaind home
manufacture and she was a saint of God in very
deed. “Give her of the fruit of her hands, and
let her own works praise her in the gates.”
A Sister and Loving Friend.
	And in behalf of the Sisters of the Relief Society
of the Alpine Stake we extend to her children
our deepest sympathy, and pray that He who has
said, “That a sparrow falleth not unnoticed”,
will grant unto them His loving tender care, and
be a Father unto the Fatherless
	We desire this Memoriam be kept on record,
and a copy given to the bereaved family, also a
copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT of which
she was a subscriber since thelst of its publication.
	How tender she was at the couch of pain
		How willing her sisters to bless,
	The poor felt her liberal hand in theirs
		Her works were of righteouness,
	Her counsels were fraught with wisdom
		Hers teaehings were full of love
	Her example will bear fruition;
		That will follow her above.
					Emma Featherstone
					Orpha Robinson
					Elisabeth J. Durrant.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt continues to
improve. She has left the hospital for her
home, at 2 w. 86th Street, New York City,
and she expected to be able to dispense with
a trained nurse about the time this paper
will reach our readers. The latter part of
July, if she is strong enough, she hopes to
go away to some couutry place for the sum-
mer.


School of Nurses

DR ROBERTS’ SCHOOL OF NURSING
Will open in Salt Lake City, on Mon-
day, September 19, 1910.
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts is a gradu-
ate of the Woman’s Medical College
of Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Twenty-five years a practicing phy-
sician in Salt Lake City . . . . . . . .
Twenty years has taught nursing 
and obstetrics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For seven years Instructor of the 
Latter-day Saints Relief Society 
School of Nurses . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For further Information write to
MARGARET C. ROBERTS, M. D.,
	79 C. Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Bell Phone 2002.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY 
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to letter the Home, the State and the Nation.

