 Vol. 39.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1910					No. 3.


CONTENTS.
									Page
A Portrait (Bathsheba W. Smith)...............	17
Sister Bathsheba in the House of the Lord
	L. L. Greene Richards.......................	17
A Loving Tribute..........................E. B. W.	17
Missionary Experiences.....Lydia D. Alder	18
The Lady with the Lamp...........................	19
Resolutions ..........................................19,	24
Biographical Sketch of the Life of Alzina
	Lucinda Willes...................J. P. M. F.	21
A Sketch of the Life of Eunice Billings
	Snow..................................................	22
Relief Society Stake Reports:—In Honor of
	Retiring Officers, Yellowstone, Big
	Horn, Uintah.................................23,	24
Notes and News....................................21,	24
Editorial:—In Memoriam..........................	20
	Impressive Services...........................	20
Poetry: Song...Louisa L. Greene Richards	17
	The Unbounded Sphere.....................
	......................Alice Cameron Voorhis	9
	The Light is Shining On.....................
	.......................Mrs. Carrie L. S. Rose	19
Voices.........................Dora B. Monteflore	19


SONG.
For our beloved President Bathsheba W. Smith,
	on her eighty-first birthday, May 3, 1903.

	Tune: “My Mother Dear.”
Thy smile, like happy sunshine,
	We ever love to greet;
Thy voice, which breathes of holy things,
	In accents low and sweet;
Words from the Prophet Joseph’s tongue,
	Of inspiration true,
In other days, when thou wert young,
	In “beautiful Nauvoo.”

		CHORUS:
Our gentle friend, our lady fair,
	Our sister dear, and mother.

With prophets and apostles
	Thy favored path hath led; 
In sacred places thou hast stood,
	Where heav’nly angels tread;
And when with sorrow and distress,
	Weighed down thy soul hath felt,
The Holy Ghost in tenderness
	Hath with thee richly dwelt.

This day, the anniversary
	Of that which gave thee birth,
We find with thee a quiet joy
	Which far exceedeth mirth;
A peaceful, holy influence,
	Which love and truth impart;
The child-like faith and innocence
	That guide the pure in heart.

So many shifting seasons
	Thy feet have meekly trod,
Each change hath brought thee nearer to
	The presence of thy God;
Yet many more glad years, we trust,
	Thou shalt on earth remain;
Then ’mong the sanctified and just,
	With thy great husband reign.
			—Louisa L. Greene Richards.


A PORTRAIT.
A queenly woman, statuesque and grand,
Regal in manner, courteous in command,
Of reverential presence, and her face
Radiantly fair, beaming with hope and grace,
Her vibrant life one long sweet symphony
Of duty, love and soulful harmony.


SISTER BATHSHEBA IN THE HOUSE OF
			THE LORD.
	Great as was the love of this noble and
gifted woman, Bathsheba W. Bigler Smith,
for the beautiful works of charity which
pertain to the mission of our Relief Society,
her devotion to the special labors of salva-
tion and redemption for the children of God
in his Holy House seemed, if possible, even
more earnest and untiring, and more richly
and perfectly enjoyed.
	Having begun to acquire a knowledge of
the sacred ordinances of the House of the
Lord under the direct instructions of the
Prophet Joseph, unto whom the perfect and
wonderful plan was revealed by the Lord
himself, and having administered in those
ordinances in the Nauvoo, St. George, Lo-
gan and Salt Lake Temples, her understand-
ing and comprehension of the magnitude
and grandeur of the work might well be so
far reaching that her appreciation of and
love for it could not be otherwise than great
indeed. And so well was she fitted for such
angelic and loving employment, both by na-


ture and education, it is
not in any way surpris-
ing that from the time of
the first work which was
performed in the Salt
Lake Temple until the
beginning of the illness
which terminated her
mortal existence, she was
ever anxious to be in her
place in that holy edifice,
and missed there on very
few occasions during
more than seventeen
years, since the temple’s
dedication.—L. L. Greene
Richards.


A LOVING TRIBUTE.
PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA
	W. SMITH.
	With the tears that
dim our eyes, and the
love that wells up in our
hearts for the beloved
President just departed
to that “better land”
there is also mingled a 
sort of triumphant joy,
at the thought of her
glorious entrance into
the presence of the royal
victors, who have gone
on before to the higher
court, and who were
there, no doubt, to bid
her, whom we miss from
our midst, a joyous wel-
come to the heavenly
paradise of peace and
rest.

“No long dark night is there,
No light from sun or silvery moon is given;
But Christ the Lamb of God all bright and fair,
Illumes the city with effulgence rare,
The glorious light of heaven.”

	No words of ours, however tender, can
express the love in our hearts for the faith-
ful and true woman of whom we are now
bereft; we know and realize that we can-
not have her with us here again, but her
living presence has so permeated our lives,
that we shall ever feel, that she is a part of
all our movements in the great work for
womanhood with which she has so many
years been identified; yes, from its very
inception; no other woman of all the chosen
few who met together on that memorable
occasion, when the Prophet of the Lord de-
clared in unmistakeable terms that the time
had come to organize the sisters of the
Church for higher development.
	Three score and eight years Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith has been connected with
the Relief Society. For more than half a 
century she has stood a pillar of strength in


[Column 1]
Israel. A pattern of excellence and of sim-
plicity to all the daughters of Zion. Surely
we may say of this mother of mothers in
the words of Solomon, the wise man.

	“Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou 
excellest them all.”

	All that can be said or written of this
saintly woman, will not perhaps satisfy those
who loved her so deeply and sincerely, but
it is the last tribute we can pay to those
who leave us for that land of beauty and of
rest where they who have lived lives of
purity on earth have entered in through the
shining portals, nevermore to know sorrow
or parting.
	We who have put our hand to the plow
must not turn back because one who was
our teacher, our exemplar, our good com-
rade has gone on ahead and left us to
forge our own way perchance through
rough and untrod paths; be of good cour-
age, let us not look backward but press on
toward “the prize of the high calling” and
never grow weary in well-doing.
	There are still new fields to traverse and
heights to climb, in the realm of woman’s
work in spiritual growth and intelligence;
what a mission awaits the young sister-
hood. We have barely seen the auspicious
dawn of woman’s era of which we talk so
freely. Are we not glad that we have be-
fore us greater things to accomplish and
wider scope for our more efficient endeavors.
	The noble example of the heroic women
of the past in the early days of the Church,
laboring under great difficulties, driven from
place to place, sometimes without shelter,
and yet patient, submissive, and prayerful,
full of that sublime faith which never falters,
these women who have been the standard-
bearers to light the way of progress for the
younger generation are nearly all gone, and
therefore we may be excused if we speak
their praise, and proclaim their good deeds;
and we say to the young women of today,
go and do likewise, and more abundantly.
	This is not a pen picture of the beautiful
life and character of Sister Bathsheba, whose
name is enshrined in the hearts of those who
know her sterling worth and who loved her
for her many noble characteristics, but is
more a tribute of love, and at some time in
the near future a true history of her long
sweet life must be written, and left on rec-
ord for those who will carry forward the
work hereafter.
	Many of us know how proud she. was of
having been born in Virginia, and looking
back to that period one seems to see the
picture portrayed by her of her home on
the farm and its surroundings, the girl her-
self on horseback, fearless and free canter-
ing over the fields and breathing in the pure
air; to her this was the greatest luxury. It
is indeed a lovely country, woods and fields,
and streams of pure sparkling water, and
an abundance of the good things of life.
	Into this Southern home of plenty and
thrift the Gospel came, brought by Elders
of the Church of Latter-day Saints. The
Bigler family were converted. Bathsheba
with the others, and strange to say, one of
the young Elders who carried the glad tid-
ing s of great joy into that home was the
gifted young Elder George A. Smith. Some
years after George A. Smith and Bathsheba
Bigler were married; it was a true love
match, and proved a very happy one. Elder

[Column 2]
George A. Smith became a very distin-
guished man, was called to fill important
positions of honor and of trust in the Church
and in the state, and always by his side
sharing his honors and rejoicing in his pros-
perity and achievements was the wife of his
youth, true and faithful in all the walks of
life. Many years they journeyed on togeth-
er, through the various changes that come
into the lives of the saints, who yield obedi-
ence to the Gospel requirements.
	Finally in 1876, death entered their home
and the faithful and devoted husband was
called to a higher sphere. Sister Bathshe-
ba Smith the fond and devoted wife, felt
she could not be left to tread life’s paths
alone without the loving companionship of
her husband; but with the heroic courage
of a true saint, he entreated her to live and
bear testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and the work of the Lord established
through his divine mission. This Sister
Bathsheba has faithfully fulfilled, thirty-four
years of widowhood, without murmur or
complaint she has borne the testimony that
her husband desired, and which she herself
delighted in giving to all the world by voice
and pen, borne it to thousands, and people
were always impressed with her words for
they carried conviction of sincerity and
truth.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith has gone to her
husband and her son (slain in the prime of
life by the Indians), and we miss her dear
face in all the accustomed places, her pass-
ing away was so quiet and peaceful that one
can scarcely realize the fact that we can
never see her on earth again. It is like one
going on a long journey without bidding
good bye.
	Her life was full to the brim of useful-
ness in the Master’s service, everywhere she
went she scattered blessings, and her favor-
ite saying at parting with her friends was
“peace be unto thee, peace to this house;”
and her mission was one of peace and bless-
ing. How beautiful the scriptural saying:
“He giveth his beloved sleep,” and how ap-
plicable to this blessed woman—truly she
fell asleep and passed peacefully away with-
out a struggle or even a sigh, it was scarcely
perceptible that her spirit had fled.
	Her demise occurred on Tuesday morn-
ing, September 20, 1910 at 10:15.
	The funeral services were held in the
large Tabernacle on Sunday September 25.
Sister Smith was the very first woman ever
buried from the Tabernacle. The building
was artistically draped in white, the cas-
ket was pure white and many of the flow-
ers, gifts of loving relatives and friends
were pure white. A large oil painting of
this queenly woman was hung on the great
Tabernacle organ and was a very signifi-
cant feature in the grouping of the gather-
ing. There seemed no death in all that great
assembly of people, it was like a sacred ser-
vice in a holy sanctuary.		E. B. W.

“So he bringeth them unto their desired haven.”
—Psalm cvii: 30.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
			(Continued.)
	Another instance was that of a young sis-
ter who was afflicted with a white swelling
on her knee, about the size of an English
loaf. The Elders asked me to go to her and
give her a blessing, which I did, after the ad-
ministration. She was quite alarmed as she

[Column 2]
could not stand or walk. On visiting her
the next day, I found her well, walking
around. She was then a faithful Saint; af-
terwards she was married out of the Church,
relying on his promise that he would not in-
terfere with her in her religion. At once
after her marriage he forbade her to go to
the meetings or recognize the elders when
she met them. The result is she has left the
Church.
	Before leaving for London, I dreamed
one night that I was ill, I went home; but as
soon as I reached there I was well. Then I
grieved that I had not remained longer, and
resolved to return and finish my mission. So
I was busy packing my trunk, my two
daughters assisting me. As we eagerly
discussed where this thing should be placed,
and that, our hands touched as we laid them
in. Then I awoke, and found myself alone
in my little room in Sittingbourne. And
how glad I was that I was there!
	Then a letter came from Aunt Em. “Do
not get discouraged, Lydia,” she wrote;
“lady missionaries are an experiment now,
and I want you to adapt yourself to condi-
tions; do not get discouraged and come
home.”
	“O Aunt Em,” I thought, “if you could
only see some of the conditions!” Neverthe-
less I was grateful for remembrance and
encouragement. I enjoyed walking through
the fields and green lanes of England, as
we went to meeting or visited the Saints.
Often as we walked we sang, “Ye who are
called to labor,” and “Though deepening
trials throng your way, Press on, press on ye
Saints of God.” How beautiful the hymn
sounded, echoing and re-echoing, near and
far the songs of Zion always inspiring,
seemed doubly so now.
	London once more, and a most refreshing
conference. We met friends as well as
Elders from Zion whom we were rejoiced to
meet again. Some of the missionaries were
transferred to other fields, some re-appoint-
ed. I was among the later. I was glad for 
I had made friends where I stayed. It was
not that the dear woman (a Catholic) had
not been subjected to disagreeable things,
neighbor even going to her husband, telling
him of what was said about the Mormons.
But they withstood it all, and allowed me to
remain, rejoicing when I came back to them.
I had only just gotten down to work again
when disquieting letters began to arrive
from home. My eldest son was ill, his baby
also. Other letters stated things were quite
critical, and I decided to go to London, so
as to get the letters earlier, or if it should
be deemed advisable, start for home. One
of the Elders accompanied me.
	The last afternoon in Sittingbourne we
visited one of the Saints far out in the
fields, and as we returned a lark arose from
an adjacent field near to us, and, flying high
in the air, burst into a most prolonged tri-
umphant song. I stood still and listened. 
“It is a good omen,” I said. I called on all
the Saints and bade them farewell in case I
did not return. Letters came frequently.
“Don’t come yet, mother,” one said, “If
things are worse we will let you know.”
After fast Sunday meeting at Clerkenwell
some of the Saints returned with us to tea
at Penton Street. A young sister sat next to
me whom I observed did not eat anything,
and was silent. “Are you not well, sister,”
I asked. Then she told me she was going
to the hospital next day to have a growth
at the base of her great toe removed (it was


about the size of an English walnut), “but 
I fear the knife,” she said. 
	I who was also there under a great sus-
pense could appreciate her feelings. I en-
couraged her to have faith, then said, “If we
were only at home that you might receive a
blessing before undergoing the ordeal!” Or
it may be that it could be removed without
the knife.” Sister, can I not get a blessing
here?” she said. I referred her to the pre-
siding Elder, who said, “certainly, sister;”
then to me, “take her up into your little
room and give her a blessing.” At Clerken-
well, after evening meeting we parted and I 
was to visit her just as soon as she had un-
dergone the operation. 
	Next day my suspense ended in a dread
certainty as regards George’s baby, for the
letter said he had died. George himself
was critically ill. I wrote to President Ly-
man who said, “Do not go, sister, if you do
you will always regret it. It would take you
over two weeks to get home and you might
meet your son walking down the street when
you arrived, but if you feel you cannot re-
main I will give you an honorable release to
return.” During this time I had not heard
from the sister, but one day on returning to
headquarters behold she came walking to-
ward me, a happy smile on her face. “Can
you walk so soon ?” “I did not have it re-
moved,” she said, “It simply disappeared!”
And she was well. 
	The joy this incident gave me enabled me
to bear the trial I was under, so that when
a letter came saying things were well again
at home, I was almost overcome. 
	A letter came from Watford, they wanted
the President to send a missionary sister
down there. They had been troubled by an
apostate spirit, the Elders had been mobbed,
etc. “Are you afraid to go,” asked the
President. “Not if you send me,” I replied. 
So to Watford I went and the months I
spent there were now ended. My daughter
May had finished her school year and came
over to me there, which was a great com-
fort to me. We were to go to the new head-
quarters, 97 Farleigh Road, when we
reached London, and felt so thankful for
the great improvement. At home in our
own pretentious dwelling after the many
years of renting undesirable 36 Penton St.
‘“London, mamma,” May calls out, “have
you been dreaming all this time?” “Only a
day dream, May.”—LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE LADY WITH THE LAMP.
This poem is the poet Longfellow’s tribute to the
	midnight vigil of the heroine of the 
		Crimea, Florence Nightingale.

		Lo! in that house of misery
		A lady with a lamp I see
		Pass through the glimmering gloom
		And flit from room to room.
		And slow, as in a dream of bliss,
		The speechless sufferers turn to kiss
		Her shadow as it falls
		Upon the darkening walls.

		On England’s annals through the long
		Hereafter of her speech and song
		That light its rays shall cast
		From portals of the past.
		A lady with a lamp shall stand
		In the great history of the land
		A noble type of good
		Heroic womanhood.

The papers are telling over again the
beautiful story of Florence Nightingale’s
life. It deserves to be written in letters
of gold. Yet some of these very same pa-


pers will assert tomorrow that “the best
women do not want to vote.” Florence
Nightingale was a suffragist, as well as a
pioneer in trained nursing. When Eliza-
beth Blackwell was pursuing her medical
studies in London, Miss Nightingale, then
a young lady living at home, used to come
and sit with her in her little room, and talk
with her of her own wish to become a doc-
tor, and of how keenly she felt the limita-
tions that hedged in women’s activities up-
on every side. There were “Antis” in those
days, too, on the subject of women in the
hospitals. When Florence Nightingale and
her band of nurses went out to the Crimea,
Mary Russell Mitford called them “‘notorie-
ty-seeking ladies,” and declared that male
nurses would be much more useful. But
wisdom is justified of her children.—Ex.


THE UNBOUNDED SPHERE.
	By Alice Cameron Voorhis.

What are the “duties” of “woman’s sphere?”
To hearten those anguished by life’s grim fear;
To mother a nation of babbling sons;
To cherish the world's sad little ones.

Down at life’s portal of dread she learns 
The unselfish love, and, mayhap, returns
To tenderly nourish the man-to-be—
Thus training for world-wide maternity.

To bind her powers to one narrow plan
Were a loss to God and a shame to man.
Her “duties,” self-chosen, encourage peace;
Her freedom but heralds the world’s release.


THE LIGHT IS SHINING ON.
		By Mrs. Carine L. S. Rose.
	Tune: “Battle Hymn of the Republic.”

I have seen the grand uprising that is spreading
	through the land,
It heralds the good tidings that the kingdom is
	at hand,
The day when men and women in full comrade-
	ship shall stand,—
		The light is shining on.

				Chorus:
		Glory, glory, hallelujah!
		Glory, glory, hallelujah!
		Glory, glory, hallelujah!
		The light is shining on.

The father and the mother shall unite for truth
	and right:
A little child shall lead them forth to visions fair
	and bright;
The home will be more holy and the world have
	less of night,—
		The light is shining on.

Equality and freedom is the gospel of today,
Throughout the world it’s spreading with an
	ever widening ray,
Fraternity the guiding star that leads the Christ-
	like way,—
		The light is shining on.

Then keep the watch-fires burning for the long 
	and dreary night.
Will change to golden morning, lo! the dawn is
	breaking bright,
And soon the noon of glory will flame out for
	human right,—
		The light is shining on.


VOICES.
		By Dora B. Monteflore.
Hark to the voices of the dawning day, 
	The voices whispering through the rustling
		reeds,
The voices swirling through the surging spray,
	The voices murmuring in the swelling seeds!
	One song, one hope they hymn,
	Though song and hope seem dim.


A voice I hear of toilers in the heart
	Of city’s gloom, who crave for leave to live,
And work and die, like men; who claim their
			part
	In this world’s heritage. Shall we not give
		An answer to that cry
		Lest patience in them die?

Another voice I hear—a woman’s wail
	For sister women trampled under foot
Out of God’s likeness; crushed outside the pale
	That shelters happier ones. Lo! at the root
		Of womanhood’s ideal
		Creeps the low real!

After it come in surging waves of sound
	The women’s voices all with “Set us free!
Too long the slave of slaves; too long the
			round
	Of sacrifice unconscious daily we
		Invoke. We, too, would rise
		Through conscious sacrifice!”

Ah! voices of the weak and the despised.
	Break forth in singing, for your day has
		come!
The darkest hour is by the dawn surprised,
	And those that wander, they are nearest 
			home.
		Sad voices sob and fall,
		But never cease to call.

For do ye not throb with the sacred strain
	That calls on man to join in brotherhood;
And do ye not rise on strong wings of pain,
	To save true woman through her mother-
			hood?
		Ah, brothers, sisters, greet
		These voices strange and sweet!

Greet every trembling voice of dawning day;
	The voices whispering through the rustling
			reeds,
The voices singing through the swirling spray,
	The voices murmuring through the swelling
			seeds,
		One song, one hope they hymn
		Though song and hope seem dim.


RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sis-
ter Sarah Ward Hickenlooper, who departed
this life July 12, 1910, after a brief illness.
	Sister Hickenlooper was born on the 8th of
July, 1819, in Leicester, Leicestershire, England,
and emigrated to Utah in 1850. She was mar-
ried to Bishop William Hickenlooper on Nov.
11th, of the same year. She was the mother of
four children, three of whom preceded her to
the other side, the last being a son thirty-one
years of age; this was a severe trial, but she
bore it with great fortitude and resignation, as
she did every other test that was made of her
faith. She shared in all the difficulties and af-
flictions which the Saints were forced to under-
go in the early settlement of these valleys. At
the time of the move south she remained behind
to take care of sister Robbins, a sick woman
who could not be moved, and was left practical-
ly alone, showing the courage of which she was
possessed.
	She was a member of the Sixth Ward Relief
Society in Salt Lake City, from its first organ-
ization, and during that time held the positions
of teacher and treasurer, both of which she
filled with honor to herself and satisfaction to
those she labored with.
	And we, the officers and members of the
Sixth Ward Relief Society, feel to acknowledge
the hand of God in her removal—that she was
permitted to depart without any severe suffer-
ing or distress—that her last moments were
peaceful and serene. And, be it
	Resolved, That we treasure in our hearts the
many noble traits of character which she pos-
sessed; that we strive to remember the many
fervent testimonies which she has borne, and
the noble example which she has set among us;
that we strive to emulate her many virtues and
so shape our lives that we may merit the exalta-
tion which we feel sure she has attained to
through her integrity to the truth.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, recorded in our min-
utes, and one sent to the “Woman’s Exponent”
for publication.
			ELLEN R. WATSON, Prest.
			ALICE BUTTERWORTH,
			MARGARET LEATHAM, Couns.
ESTHER H. D. WATSON, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. 
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	SEPTEMBER, 1910


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM. 
PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
	It would be impossible in a brief notice of
our beloved President, sister and friend of
long years, to do any thing like justice to her
memory, or to write even a brief sketch of
her life, but we must make mention of her
recent demise, leaving the details of her life
until a later date.
	Our hearts are deeply touched, she had
been with us so long and we had hoped she
might remain with us a few years longer;
but our Heavenly Father has called her
home, and we feel to acknowledge his hand
in this, as in all the dispensations of his
Providence.
	Bathsheba W. Bigler was born May 3,
1823, in Shinnston, Harrison county, West
Virginia, and was the daughter of Mark
Bigler and Susannah Ogden; her father was
a Pennsylvanian, her mother from Mary-
land; she had a happy childhood in her dear
Southern home. When about fifteen years
old some Latter-day Saint Elders visited
that vicinity, and she heard them preach and
believed the message of salvation they
brought to the people, and in August, 1837
she was baptized into the Church. Most of
the Bigler family embraced the Gospel and
soon after they sold their possessions and
went to join the Saints in Missouri. On
their arrival they found the people in the
midst of mob violence; and the young girl
Bathsheba witnessed many of the terrible
scenes of that eventful period, that have
since been recorded in Church history. 
	After the troublous times in Missouri and
moving from place to place, the saints, most
of them, crossed over into Illinois, Brother
Bigler’s family with others; they went first
to Quincy, and subsequently to Commerce
afterwards Nauvoo, in 1840. Miss Bigler
had met her future husband in Virginia
when he was a young Elder preaching the
Gospel and renewed the acquaintance after
gathering with the Saints.
	July 25, 1841, George A. Smith and
Bathsheba W. Bigler were united in mar-
riage, the ceremony being performed by
Elder Don Carlos Smith; at that time Elder
George A. Smith was the youngest member
of the quorum of the twelve apostles. The
union and subsequent life was a very happy
one in every respect.
	While living in Nauvoo two children were
born to them, George Albert who lived to

[Column 2]
be eighteen years of age, (he was slain by
Navajo Indians in Southern Utah while fill-
ing a mission to the Moqui tribe of Indians,
November 2, 1860). The daughter Bath-
sheba born in Nauvoo July, 1844, is still
living, the mother of a very large and beau-
tiful family, her husband is also living,
Elder Clarence Merrill, both of this city.
	In 1846, Mrs. Smith with her husband
and family took part in the exodus from 
Illinois, and during that terrible journey
from the beautiful city Nauvoo to Winter
Quarters, they endured great hardships;
most of the exiles, indeed one might say all,
passed through such scenes of trials and dif-
ficulties, as are too dreadful to recall. The
company with which Apostle George A.
Smith and family came from Winter Quar-
ters here, reached the Valley in October,
1849.
	Since that time Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith has resided in Salt Lake City, except
during the time of the move South, when
the people vacated the city in 1858, but she
only remained away three months.
	The greater part of the life here of Pres-
ident George A. Smith and his family was
passed in the building known as the His-
torian’s Office on South Temple Street, just
east of main, and in that home President
George A. Smith died on September 1, 1876.
Sometime after her husband’s demise Sis-
ter Smith removed to the cottage on West
Temple, her home ever since leaving the
Historian’s Office.
	It is well known to the Latter-day Saints
that Sister B. W. Smith was a charter mem-
ber of the first Relief Society organized in
Nauvoo by Joseph Smith the Prophet, and
has continued in the work ever since. She
has filled many prominent positions of trust
and usefulness in this Society and in other
Church organizations, viz: Retrenchment,
Deseret Hospital, etc.
	In October, 1888 she was chosen and set
apart as Counselor to Sister Zina D. H.
Young, who had been selected President,
after the death of Sister Eliza R. Snow, and
when Sister Zina was called home by death
in 1901, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was
selected to fill the position, October 31, 1901,
and was sustained at a special conference
held November 10, 1901. Sister Smith filled
this position with dignity and grace up to
the time of her death; presided at all meet-
ings of the General Board twice a month,
beside occasional special meetings, and reg-
ular executive sessions of the Society, and
conferences twice a year. During the nine
years she has been president she has not
missed more than five of these meetings,
and has always been punctual. This is cer-
tainly a wonderful record and an excellent
example for the young women of Zion.
	When one considers that President Bath-
sheba W. Smith also presided in the Tem-
ple over the sisters there, and gave four days
in the week regularly to the Temple work,
summer and winter, besides her home duties,
one can see how diligent and industrious she
has been, and her days full of active use-
fulness, an example to all Israel.
	In the midst of her daily labors as it were,
Sister Smith was suddenly stricken down
on the 19th of June last, with an illness from
which she never quite recovered; although
at times her friends were hopeful. All
through these many months of summer her
daughter was at her bedside, and ministered 
with love and tenderness to every need, and
anticipated every desire so far as possible.

[Column 3]
And at last when the final hour came, after
an almost continuous sleep of three days
and nights, it was the daughter who attend-
ed to the last sad offices, but there was no
feeling of death or gloom, for as the poet
has said:
	“Like one who draws the drapery of her couch
About her, she lay down to pleasant dreams.”


IMPRESSIVE SERVICES.
	The funeral of President Bathsheba W.
Smith was held in the large Tabernacle in
this city on Sunday, September 25, 1910,
a very large congregation was present to
pay honor to the dearly beloved President
of the Relief Society.
	Numerous floral tributes were tastefully
arranged on or about the platform, and
casket, the building was draped in white
and the whole appearance denoted a deli-
cate expression of the esteem and reverence
which was felt by the entire community.
	Bishop F. S. Tingey of the Seventeenth
Ward in charge of the services. The Tem-
ple choir were present to render sweet mu-
sic such as Sister Smith loved. Professor
J. J. McClellan was at the organ and that
wonderful instrument pealed forth a solemn
funeral march by Chopin at the opening,
and until the family were seated. The first
hymn was “When first the glorious light
of truth.” Invocation by Bishop George
Romney, a fellow worker with Sister Smith
in the Temple. “O My Father,” by the Tab-
ernacle Choir.
	The first speaker was Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith’s Bishop Franklin S. Tingey,
who referred to Sister Smith as exem-
plary in regard to tithing, and donations,
and prompt in attending meetings in her
own ward, he felt it an honor to raise his
voice in praise of such a noble woman, and 
spoke of her being President for some years
in the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke next, with deep
feeling, paid a tender tribute to the mem-
ory of the life and labors of the departed
referred to the heroic women who had gone
on before, that had been the life-long com-
panions of Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, and
who had like the one who had just left us,
laid all, upon the altar of their faith, and
with their husbands, entered into eternal
covenants and been true and faithful until
death. Alluded to the testimony Sister
Smith had always borne while she lived,
and that there were few left now of those
associated with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	President Nephi L. Morris said in sub-
stance, Sister Smith’s name was a house-
hold word, and spoke of her as a public
character with all the qualities of leader-
ship; he believed woman’s most sacred call-
ing was motherhood, and spoke of Aunt
Bathsheba standing as a noble princess in
Israel. “I wish to express my appreciation
of this beautiful life that has just closed as
far as this earth is concerned. She ever
seemed to move in peace and tranquility,
there was something almost sacred in the
atmosphere which surrounded her. How
sweet will be the rest which has now come
to her in heaven.”
	Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward sang the
solo “Angels ever bright and fair” in her
very sweetest style, with organ accompani-
ment.
	President Anthon H. Lund of the First
Presidency: “A mother in Israel has left


[Column 1]
us. She was a mother in all Israel. She
has lived a long and beautiful life, eight-
eight years in this earth-mission.” Presi-
dent Lund referred to her being born in
Virginia and of her religious turn of mind,
and her many excellent traits of character,
her faith which was built on the “Rock of
Ages,” following her was a chain of good
works. She was placed in high positions,
but was never made proud by it, never felt
above her brothers and sisters; was a mem-
ber of the first Relief Society and that has
formed a link between the early days and
now. We honor her for what she has done,
spoke of her testimonies of the early days,
and closed with these words, “We believe
a crown of righteousness awaits her, we feel
she was a woman of God.”
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor paid a glowing
tribute of admiration and reverence to the
deceased and added: “We can boast of
heroes in this Church, and we also have
heroines of the highest type. They have
been acknowledged by heaven, and will re-
ceive heaven’s recognition and reward. Sis-
ter Smith has been a member of the Church
for seventy-three years, and has gone down
to her grave without taking one feeling of
revenge with her as did Jesus. Her life
showed simplicity, humility, patience and
loveliness.”
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry: “If
the book of her life were written there
would be something beautiful on each page
I have worked with Sister Smith for nine
years and every day I thank my Heavenly
Father that I had this privilege.” The speak-
er referred to Sister Smith’s excellent judg-
ment in settling important questions, and
felt she always had the Spirit of the Lord.
In conclusion Sister Dusenberry said: “Sis-
ter Smith lived not only in years but in
deeds, everyone felt her sweet spirit, the
faith and purity of such a sweet life.
	President Richard W. Young said: “It
is claimed that with the exception of the
German army, there is no such perfect or-
ganization existing as that of this Church,
which includes the great organization of the
Relief Society, of which Sister Smith was
the head. By this Society distress has been
discovered and relieved. We believe in or-
ganized charity, not in indiscriminate giv-
ing. This is exemplified in the Relief So-
ciety. It relieves distress, nourishes the sick,
manifesting charity toward all worthy peo-
ple in need. What is more fit than that a
woman of Sister Smith’s character should
preside over such an organization as the
Relief Society. In coming into her pres-
ence one could feel radiating from her a
love for mankind, kindness, and goodness.
None knew her but to love and honor her.
May God consecrate her life to the sweet-
ening of the lives of others.”
	The choir sang, “Nearer my God to Thee”
and the benediction was pronounced by
Patriarch John Smith.
	While the mourners were leaving the
building Professor J. J. McClellan rendered
Mendelssohn’s funeral march in E. minor.
The pall-bearers were Sister Smith’s grand-
sons, Clarence Merrill Jr., Thomas Mer-
rill, Louis Merrill, Frank E. Allen, Llew-
ellyn Lloyd and Lyman Horne.
	A long cortege of numerous mourners
and friends followed the hearse to the grave.
President Angus M. Cannon dedicated the
grave in the most solemn manner, in the
presence of a large number of relatives and

[Column 2]
friends, representatives of the organiza-
tions General Board of the Relief Society,
members of the Temple workers, General
Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. General Board
of the Primary Associations, and the
Daughters of the Pioneers.
	The floral tributes were very beautiful
and significant. General Board Relief So-
ciety, and the stake organizations of Salt
Lake, Pioneer, Ensign, Liberty, Pocatello,
Daughters of the Revolution, grandsons and
granddaughters and great grandchildren.
	Doctor and Mrs. Wilcox, Mrs. W. B.
Boothe and family, Mrs. Annie D. Watson
and Mrs. Lucy E. Acomb gave these tokens
of love.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was buried
beside her husband on the hillside just at
sunset—

	“Sunset and evening star,
		And one clear call for me!
	And may there be no moaning of the bar,
		When I put out to sea.”

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT IN HONOR OF
	PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
These resolutions were read at the meeting of the
General Board,. September 23, 1910.
	Our dearly beloved and honored Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith has been called
home—called unto the peace and rest and
joy of eternal life in the mansions of God
our Heavenly Father, answering the sum-
mons on the rich autumnal morn of Tues-
day, September 20, 1910.
	The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints bereft of the
association and guidance of this noble and
queenly woman; feels it fitting to declare
in feeble, yet affectionate phrase, our love
and high esteem for her, whose life was our
great example and whose death is our great
sorrow.
	Therefore, be it resolved that we, the offi-
cers and members of this organization of the
Relief Society in conference assembled, on
this 4th day of October, 1910, by rising vote
testify our reverence and love for her whose
long and gentle life was filled to the brim
with kindly deeds.
	For her who toiled unceasingly and un-
tiringly for the spiritual and material wel-
fare of mankind;
	For her who long years labored loving-
ly and tenderly for the living and the dead
in the house of the Lord;
	For her, who though endowed with gifts
and graces befitting the highest station, was
ever humble and sweet in spirit.
	For her, whose unselfish home life, wife-
ly devotion and motherly tenderness stand
as an example to all Israel;
	For her, who in very truth was a mother
to the daughters of Zion.
	And be it further resolved that we cher-
ish these memories deep in our hearts; that
her beautifully completed life be upheld as
a beacon and inspiration to the generations
yet to follow; and that encouraged by her
example, we may feel—

“We will do like wise, death hath made no
	breach
In love and sympathy, in hope and trust.
No outward sign nor sound our ears can reach;
But there’s an inward spiritual speech
That greets us still though mortal tongue be
	dust,
It bids us do the work that she laid down,
Take up the song where she left off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,

[Column 3]
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown
And our lost loved ones will be found again.”
							—Amen.
Ida Smoot Dusenberry	Phebe Y. Beatie
Emmeline B. Wells		Carrie S. Thomas
Clarissa Smith Williams	Alice Merrill Horne
Jane S. Richards		Annie Wells Cannon
Sarah Jenne Cannon	Priscilla P. Jennings
Romaina B. Penrose	Elizabeth S. Wilcox
Susan Grant			Harriet B. Harker
Emma S. Woodruff		Minnie Horne James
Julina L. Smith		Rebecca N. Nibley
Emily S. Richards		Amy Brown Lyman
Julia P. M. Farnsworth	Annie Kay Hardy


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF
		ALZINA LUCINDA WILLES.
	Sister Alzina Lucinda willes was born in
Susquehanna, Luzerne county, Pa., March
4, 1834. She was the daughter of Corne-
lius P. and Permelia Darrow Lott.
	Her father’s family joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1838,
moving first to Ohio and thence to Nauvoo,
Ill., where as a girl Sister Willes associated
almost daily with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
On account of her lively disposition and her
ability to catch the Prophet’s horse when no
one else could do so, she became a special
favorite of the Smith family.
	She passed through the persecutions of
Nauvoo and in 1848 crossed the plains, driv-
ing a team composed of two cows and two
oxen, the entire distance of one thousand
five hundred miles, arriving in Salt Lake
Valley Sept. 24, 1848.
	For two years after arriving in Utah the
family made their home in Salt Lake City,
where her father died on the present site of
the Knutsford Hotel.
	In 1851 she, with her mother and family,
moved to Lehi and located on the shore of
Utah Lake, where, on April 23, 1852, she
was married to William Sidney Willes by
President Brigham Young, who was at that
time passing through Lehi on a tour of the
territory south.
	When in 1855 the scattered settlers sur-
rounding Lehi were called to move together
for protection against the Indians, Brother
and Sister Willes moved into the town
where she has since resided.
	In 1871 death deprived her of her hus-
band, leaving her with the responsibility of
a large family of young children. Over
this family she exercised the influence of a
loving mother and bravely assumed the ar-
duous duties of a father as well.
	She was the mother of nine children, two
boys and seven girls, five of whom survive
her. Her grand children number thirty-
eight and her great grand children thirty-
five.
	Sister Willes possessed a warm heart and
her life was full of service. She endured
much for the gospel sake and died in full
faith and hope in a glorious resurrection,
on the 18th of August, 1910. At her daugh-
ters, home in Lehi.—J. P. M. F.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. O. H. P. Belmont sailed for Eng-
land June 29. She plans to study the ad-
ministrative methods of the three largest
Suffrage Associations.
	The bill giving universal municipal suf-
frage to women, which passed the lower
house of Parliament in Norway, 71 to 10,
has now passed the upper House, 24 to 7,
and has been signed by the king.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF EUNICE
		BILLINGS SNOW.
	My mother was set apart by the Prophet
Joseph for the especial calling in obstetrics.
She practiced for over fifty years, and never
lost a case of the mother.
	Being accustomed to attend all meetings
with my mother, I was present at meetings
of the first Relief Society in the Church in
Nauvoo. And when my mother was called
as a teacher with Sister Markham as a com-
panion. I was not old enough to be a mem-
ber of the organization. During the build-
ing of the Temple, my father worked very
often on it and at those times we lived quite
close, mother being very sick for the first
three months after we moved to Nauvoo.
My youngest brother died at Nauvoo, in his
tenth year. His name was Titus. He was
buried in the cemetery at Nauvoo. Broth-
ers Heber C. Kimball and Newel K. Whit-
ney were called in to administer to him and
while they were administering to him, he
died.
	I saw the Prophet lay the corner-stone of
the Nauvoo Temple. I was a member of the
Nauvoo choir from the time I was twelve
years old, and sang at the dedication of the
Nauvoo Temple. I received my endow-
ments in the Nauvoo Temple when I was
sixteen years old. I was baptized when I
was nearly sixteen, in the font of the Nau-
voo Temple.
	Previous to my fifteeneth year, I remem-
ber hearing the Prophet speak on celestial
marriage, and although I did not fully un-
derstand it, yet my parents made it plain to
me when I was fourteen, or fifteen years old,
and Brother Kimball supplemented their
teachings. Before I was sixteen, when my
mother was very sick, Sister Vilate Kimball
would come to administer to her wants,
bringing foods and dainties. No doubt she
saved her life since she had no one but
myself to do for, and I was so very young
and inexperienced at that time. I remember
when the “Nauvoo Expositor” was de-
stroyed. This was a paper established by the
apostates and it was creating considerable
trouble, so much that our brethren felt that
it should not exist. It was destroyed after
a short time and many of the people were
very much enraged at the time and it point-
ed to the beginning of mobocracy. The
paper was conducted by Law, Foster, and
Dr. John C. Bennett.
	Some of the most impressive moments of
my life were, when I saw the “Nauvoo
Legion” on parade with the Prophet, then
Gen. Joseph Smith, with his wife, Emma
Hale Smith, on horseback at the head of
the troops. It was indeed, an imposing
sight, and one that I shall always remember.
He so fair, and she so dark, in their beauti-
ful riding-habits. He in full military suit,
and she with her habit trimmed with gold
buttons, a neat cap on her head, with a black
plume in it, while the Prophet wore a red
plume in his, and a red sash across his
breast, his coat was black, while his white
pants had red stripes on the outside seams.
He also wore a sword at his side. His fav-
orite riding-horse was named Charlie, a big
black steed. My father for many years,
was captain of the cannon when the legion
was on parade, and many a time, my moth-
er and I made cartridges for him. He kept
the cannon in his charge.
	After the destruction of the “Expositor,”
many of the apostates became wild and re-

[Column 2]
vengeful thirsting for the Prophet’s blood.
The staunch and loyal Latter-day Saints
in Nauvoo, felt that the Prophet was in dan-
ger, and although they lived with a strong
faith in the Lord that all would be well, yet
they tried to dissuade the Prophet from re-
maining in Nauvoo and suceeded so far, that
he moved across the Mississippi river to
Montrose. He did not stay there very long
however, as some of his friends persuaded
him to come back, thinking possibly that his
presence would tend to pacify the crowds of
boisterous people on the streets.
	I remember hearing the Prophet the last
time he spoke in Nauvoo. It was in the
day at the Bowery, which was filled with a
goodly number of the saints. He said, “I
go like a lamb to the slaughter,” referring
to the great shadow, which semed even then
to hover over his life and to foreshadow
his impending doom.
	On the last day which he spent in Nauvoo,
he passed our house with his brother, Hy-
rum, both riding. My mother and I were
standing in the dooryard, and as he passed,
he bowed with uplifted hat to my mother.
Hyrum seemed like one in a dream, sad and
despondent, taking no notice of any one.
They were on their way to the Carthage
jail, and it was the last time I saw the
Prophet alive. Shortly after this, my fath-
er came home and told my mother that the
Prophet and his brother had been murdered,
whereupon my mother exclaimed, “How
can it be possible? Will the Lord allow any-
thing like that?” And immediately she sank
back in her chair and fainted. When she
came to herself, my father lamented the fact
with her, but cited the case that other Proph-
ets in the world’s history had been killed.
The bodies were brought into Nauvoo the
morning after the murder, and placed in the
Nauvoo Mansion to be viewed by hundreds
of people. The Latter-day Saints in the
city were full of melancholy, and sadness
prevailed over the place. Tears were shed
on every hand, and deep mourning shrouded
the city.
	Lucy Mack Smith, Emma Hale Smith,
my mother and I, together viewed the bod-
ies, and I shall never forget the impression
made upon me when the Prophet’s mother
saw the bodies of her dead sons. Falling
on her knees and clasping her hands she
cried out, “O God, why were my noble sons
permitted to be martyred?” Then control-
ling herself with a mighty effort, she said,
“Thy will, not mine, O Lord, be done.”
	After this terrible murder, the condition
of the Church was a pitiable plight, with
confusion on every hand, until the Lord
raised up a new prophet, in the person of
Brigham Young; a second Moses, to lead
the people out of their sad difficulties.

		MY TRIP TO MANTI.
	In 1849, during the October conference,
which was held in Salt Lake City my fath-
er and mother with my husband and myself
were called to go, with Isaac Morley as our
leader to Manti to settle the first colony
there. My husband’s name was John E.
Warner and my father’s name was Titus
Billings. I was married eight miles north
of Salt Lake City to John E. Warner, at a
small settlement called Session’s Settlement.
	We prepared for our journey and started
in the latter part of October. The trip oc-
cupied three weeks, which is strange to say,
when one thinks that we make a continuous

[Column 3]
journey, only camping overnight and mak-
ing our own roads as we traveled along.
On our way, my mother was quite ill and I
had to prepare the meals when I was not
driving a yoke of cattle. My father drove
the other yoke of cattle and my husband
was busy attending to the loose cattle which
we had with us.
	We reached Manti on the 21st, of No-
vember. It being the fall of the year, every-
thing was bleak and dreary. There was, of
course, no house in sight only the brush cov-
ering the ground, and for six weeks we lived
in our wagons with only a brush covering
to protect us from the storms. In the mean
while, my husband went to the mountains
and there sawed logs with an upright saw
to construct our dwelling. They sawed the
logs in two for the sides of the house and
they made sheathing for the roof and floor.
They put in small pieces of wood between
the logs for chinks and plastered mud all
over the outside to keep it warm. The
house consisted of one room and we had a
small stove which we had brought across the
plains, and besides there was a fireplace,
which kept the place warm. We had no car-
pet, but we had beds and dishes, so we con-
sidered that we were quite comfortable.
	When we had lived there two weeks my
first child was born, but due to hardship and
suffering the little thing was still-born, and
I came very nearly losing my own life. I
was sick for quite a while, and my mother,
who was a midwife, nursed and attended
me. She was the only doctor, midwife, and
nurse at the time in Manti. My child, I
think, was the third one born in the little
settlement.
	Many of the first settlers lived in dugouts
along by the stone quarries, and it was not
unusual for them to get up in the morning
and find the rattle snakes crawling along the
eaves of their dugout homes.
	The people did not suffer from any pes-
tilence nor great conflagraation, showing
that the Lord was kind to them and scat-
tered blessings on his servants who had
gone forth to establish new settlements in
his name.
	My father and my husband, during that
first winter drove our cows to the “Warm
Springs” and every morning about ten o’-
clock they would take some bran to them
and milk them. That gave us fresh milk
once a day and in that way we felt that we
had some of the luxuries of life. My par-
ents were very particular in apportioning
our foods every day, so that they would last
until the next seed-time and harvest, and by
that means we did not suffer during that
first long, cold winter. You understand, it
would be difficult to get supplies from the
other settlements or from Salt Lake City, on
account of the means of transportation
through the canyons being blocked with
snow.
	As soon as possible the brethren erected
a large log building near the stone quarry
where we could hold our meetings regularly,
and my husband, Brother Warner conducted
the first singing and led the first choir in
Manti, Among the first members of the
choir were: Brother Warner, my father
and mother, Sister Hannah Morley, and
myself. When we moved to our city lots
and a large rock meeting house had been
built in the center, of town, Brother Warner
continued to lead the singing there until his
death.
	Brother John Lowry was the first bishop


of Manti and my husband served as clerk
of the ward. He also served as clerk to
Judge Peacock during the sessions of the
District Court. He acted as well as clerk
of all public meetings. Brother Warner
was well educated in his native state—Mas-
sachusetts. He played well on the flute,
which, by the way was the only instrument
of music which we had at first in Manti.
This flute was a twenty-four silver mounted
one and very valuable. I played in the first
theater that was organized in Manti, and in
the Thespian Society we often sang duets.
	My mother, Diantha Morley Billings, was
the first president of the first Relief Society
that was organized in Manti. All my chil-
dren, except the last one, were born in Man-
ti. I have had eight children, seven of
whom were born in Manti. I have six chil-
dren living and I have had forty-eight
grandchildren and twenty-eight great-
grandchildren.
	We lived in Manti fourteen years and I
shall always cherish fond recollections of
the place. We came to it when it was bare
and desolate and we saw it grow into a
beautiful settlement. I am the oldest living
lady of the first company that went to Man-
ti in 1849. The greatest sorrow which
came into my life was the death of my hus-
band, Brother Warner, in the Walker War.
I lived a widow three years when I was
married to Brother George W. Snow. I
had four children belonging to him.
	When I contemplate the present times
with all their splendor and luxury, the auto-
mobiles instead of the oxteams, the electric
lights instead of the tallow candles, the gas
stoves instead of the old wood ones, I pon-
der on the works of the Lord and his mercy
unto the people.
	I have several relics with me which I have
placed in charge of Brother Tennant, and
shall be pleased to have anyone inspect
them that chooses.
	The Manti Temple has been built since I
left the city but I have returned and worked
in it.
	I am thankful to my heavenly Father that
at the age of eighty, I have been spared
and I am in fairly good health and that the
Lord has brought me so far along in my
journey that I am permitted to attend this
reunion and to be with my friends and rel-
atives on this happy occasion. That I may
continue to be blessed and to remain faith-
ful to the end of my days, is my prayer.
Amen.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
IN-HONOR OF RETIRING OFFICERS.
	The Relief Society of the Big Horn Stake
gave a banquet at Byron, August 10th, 1910,
in honor of the retiring presidency, Lucy F.
Grant, Avilda Dickson, Ida Sessions, Nellie
Jolly and Ella May. From 11 a. m. until
12 a. m. the time was spent in social chat-
ting and hand shaking. They then partook
of a most excellent luncheon which was to
the credit and honor of the sisters of Byron.
The tables were beautifully decorated with
flowers and fruits fresh from their own
gardens.
	At 2:30 p. m. the following program was
rendered: President Mary L. Welch pre-
siding. Congregation sang, “There is Sun-
shine in my Soul;” prayer was offered by
Brother Egan; Singing, “If There’s Sun-
shine in your Heart.” Address of welcome

[Column 2]
by Barbara Lyman. Verses composed for
the occasion, read by Nellie Jolly. Duet,
“What are the Wild Waves Saying,” by
Etta Wilcox and Margaret Holyoak; reci-
tation, “Slanders,” Rachel Briggs; senti-
ments, Retta Porter; recitation, “My Mis-
sion,” Mattie Neeves; vocal solo, “The
Beautiful City,” by Rebecca Jennings. Re-
marks, “Our aim in Relief Society work,”
Artie Willis; recitation, “John Davis and
Wife’s Argument,” by Kate Abram. Re-
marks were made by stake presidency, Chas.
A. Welch, Jesse W. Crosby and Byron
Sessions. Duett, “When you Bowed this
Morning,” by Millie Egan and Bertha Ses-
sions. President Mary L. Welch then pre-
sented the retiring officers with a token
of love, purchased by the sisters, namely:
Stake President Lucy F. Grant and Coun-
selors, each a silk shawl; Nellie Jolly and
Ella May a cracker bowl, after which they
arose and thanked the sisters for the love
and esteem they had shown them. Presi-
dent Mary L. Welch felt to thank all those
who had worked so zealously in preparing
dinner and making arrangements for the
occasion.
	Singing, “God be with you.” Benedic-
tion, Francis Crosby.
					LIBBIE SNELL,
					Acting Secretary.

		YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	Report of Yellowstone Stake Relief So-
ciety conference held at St. Anthony, Aug.
15, 1910. There were present Stake Presi-
dent Daniel G. Miller, First Counselor Mar-
ion J. Kerr, Bishop A. D. Miller, Sr., one
High Councilman and Sisters Barnes, Ballif
and Briggs of the Fremont Stake Relief
Society. President Julia E. Miller presided.
	Singing, “We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet;” prayer by President Daniel G.
Miller; singing, “We are sowing daily sow-
ing.” President Julia E. Miller welcomed
the sisters to conference. Parker, Wilford,
Warm River, Twin Groves and Ashton
wards were Reported as being in good con-
dition. Musical selection was given by Sis-
ter Grace Williams. Counselor Mary J.
Miller advised the officers along the lines
of their duties.
	A reading, “The Lord looketh upon the
Heart,” by Sister Grace Z. Robertson; solo,
“There’s a mother needs me now,” Sister
Amelia Barnes. Benediction by Sister Em-
ily Lamborn.
	Afternoon session: Singing, “High on
the Mountain Top;” prayer, President M.
J. Kerr singing; “The Happy Day.”
	Ora, St. Anthony, Marysville and Kil-
gore branches were reported as doing well.
President Julia E. Miller reported the stake.
Song, “Oh, Heart of Mine” by Brother and
Sister Thos. Elliot. Sister Barnes of Fre-
mont Stake spoke on Relief Society work.
Sister Briggs spoke on the duties of the
teacher. An instrumental selection by
Brother Elliot. The general and stake offi-
cers were then sustained. Solo, “Some
Happy Day,” by Sister Emily Ballif. Presi-
dent Daniel G. Miller spoke for a short
time. Duet, “Light at Eventime,” by Wil-
ford Society. After a few remarks by Bish-
op A. D. Miller conference was adjourned.
Singing, “Doxology.” Benediction, Sister
Francis Hunter.
				MARY E. BROWER,
							Secretary.

[Column 3]
			BIGHORN STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of Big
Horn Stake was held in Cowley Relief So-
ciety Hall, August 18, 1910, President Mary
L. Welch presiding. Singing, “Come, Come
ye Saints;” opening prayer by Bishop W.
C. Partridge; singing, “Oh ye Mountains
High.”
	President Mary L. Welch said, “No doubt
we felt disappointed in not having visitors
from the General Board, but as the Lord
was no respector of persons, we could enjoy
his Spirit just the same.”
	The meeting was then left open for testi-
mony bearing. Francis Crosby read a testi-
mony of Sister M. Isabella Horne, from the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT. Counselor Barbara
Lyman and Sarah Partridge bore their testi-
mony. Sister Abbie Neeves said she re-
ceived a testimony of the truthfulness of the
Book of Mormon when she was only eight,
years of age. In the early days in Utah
the soldiers came to her mother’s house and
began to ridicule the Book of Mormon; the
Spirit of the Lord told her it was true, and
she stood up and bore this testimony to the
soldiers. Sarah Clayton Partridge, Bishop
Edward Partridge’s wife, said perhaps she
was the only one present that lived in the
days of the Prophet, and she wanted to
bear her testimony, that she knew he was a
Prophet of God. She remembered the
Prophet coming to her father’s house. She
wanted her children to hear her bear this
testimony: that Father had always been a
true friend of hers, and she had never called
on him in vain.
	Lois Vance, Lizzie Robinson, Man An-
derson, Jessie Taggart and Rachel Ellis bore
testimonies. Millie Egan told how she had
dreaded a death in her family, and how the
Lord had warned her of her little boy dying
before hand so she was prepared for it. Lucy
F. Grant warned the sisters not to make
home made beer and wine to create an ap-
petite for strong drinks in their husbands
and sons, said one of her brothers had been
made a confirmed drunkard through this.
	Mary Hopkins bore testimony she had
never been to a better testimony meeting in
her life. Sister Avilda Dickson hoped to
always be worthy of belonging to a Relief
Society.
	President Mary L. Welch said she was
thankful for the testimonies that had been
borne. It was a spiritual feast to all pres-
ent. All were invited to stay to luncheon,
which was served in the basement of the
same building by the Cowley sisters; the
tables were tastefully arranged, and all en-
joyed themselves in a temporal feast.
	Singing, “Prayer is the Soul’s Sincere
Desire.” Benediction by Partriarch John
Eyre.
	Afternoon session of conference was
called to order, Pres. Mary L. Welch presid-
ing. Singing, “We Thank Thee Oh God for
a Prophet;” opening prayer by R. M. Lynn;
singing, “Scatter Sunshine.” A letter of
greeting from President Bathsheba W.
Smith, was read by Secretary Irene Mar-
chant; vocal solo by Claudia Smith testi-
mony by Abbie Neeves.
	All bore strong testimonies Sarah
Welch said the Lord had always been a 
friend of hers; gave evidence of the Lord
answering her little boy’s prayer. Laura
Rappley and daughters sang, “I Need Thee


[Column 1]
every Hour.” Artie Willis bore testimony
of the Lord healing her children. Annie
Lafollet and Ritta Porter bore good testi-
monies. Libbie Snell spoke of witnessing,
when a girl, the Priesthood casting out an
evil spirit from one of her school mates.
Lydia Workman said she felt she had to
tell of the goodness of the Lord unto her,
in healing her little boy. He was kicked by
a horse, his skull was mashed and they had
no hopes for his life, but through the Priest-
hood he was entirly healed. Laura Rappley
said she knew the Lord could answer our
prayers if we were miles away from our
loved ones. Had a niece away from home
with consumption, whom the doctor said
could not live, she requested her friends at
home to fast and pray for her, at the very
hour they set for prayer she said she felt a
thrill go through her whole body; she is
alive and mother of a family. Maud Call,
who had gone down to death’s door in bear-
ing two children, told of how she had been
delivered with the third normally through
the young ladies of the ward holding a fast
meeting for her.
	Sarah Ballard, Susan Simmons and Ber-
tha Sessions bore their testimony, told of
the goodness of God to them.
	Amanda Marchant sang, “The Unknown
Grave.” Sister Tiggen, Charlotte Lindsay,
Susie Barney bore testimonies. President
Byron Sessions encouraged the Relief So-
ciety sisters in their work, asked the sis-
ters to honor and respect those who had
been called to preside over this organiza-
tion.
	Vocal duet, “When you Bowed this
Morning,” by Bertha and Vena Sessions.
President Jesse W. Crosby compared the
Relief Society with other organizations of
the world; related incidents of his teachings
in the Church.
	President Mary L. Welch bore her testi-
mony; felt to thank all who had taken part
and made the conference a success.
	Closed by singing, “God be With you.”
Benediction by Claudia Ketchum.—Irene
Merchant, secretary.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of 52nd regular quarterly also
the 3rd Annual Relief Society conference,
held in the Stake Tabernacle, August 19,
1910, beginning at 10 a. m.
	We had as missionaries, Mrs. Minnie
Horne James and Mrs. Annie K. Hardy of
the General Board of Relief Society.
	President Nancy A. Colton presiding.
Singing by choir and congregation, “Our
God we raise to Thee;” opening prayer by
Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett; singing, “High on
the Mountain Top.”
	President Nancy A. Colton welcomed the
brethren and sisters to conference. She
also reported the Relief Society of the Stake
in good condition.
	Lecture on Church History by Mrs. Alice
Merrill, subject: “The Founding of Zion.”
	Song from Vernal 2nd Ward by Mrs.
Jane Bennion, accompanied by Miss Meda
Carpenter.
	We had reports from the following presi-
dents: President Keturah Berkley, Vernal
First Ward President Hannah B. Odekirk,
Vernal Second Ward; each reported the
Society in good condition.
	Mrs. Minnie Horne James was much im-
pressed in storing grain, thought the sis-
ters should put forth an extra effort this

[Column 2]
fall in gathering grain; spoke on the sub-
jects of the Word of Wisdom. Duties of the
Relief Society teachers, also of the lecture
which had been so ably given.
	Mrs. Annie K. Hardy spoke of the beau-
tiful scenery along the road. Encouraged
the sisters to press onward in their work.
Alluded to the lecture which had been given
so beautifully; referred to the Relief Society
being the first auxiliary organization in the
Church, and the charitable work it was do-
ing; we should not neglect anybody, no mat-
ter who they are, spoke of the encampment
in Salt Lake City, and of the words which
had been prophesied, where it says we shall
go up to the mountain of the house of the
Lord. Urged the sisters in their labors,
to extend their efforts to the aged and in-
firm.
	Elder Reuben S. Collett represented the
stake presidency; said life is what we make
out of it; spoke of the responsibilities of
mothers in rearing their children, for the
mother is the one that has the care of the
child to a greater extent than the father.
Referred to mothers work in the Society and
what a great work was being done among
the sisters, dwelt upon charity.
	Singing, “Come, Come ye Saints.” Bene-
diction by Elder Joseph McKee.
	Afternoon session: Continued by sing-
ing, “Do What is Right;” prayer by Mrs.
Fannie E. Stewart; singing “A Poor Way-
Faring man of Grief.”
	A talk on mothers work by Mrs. Mary
H. Stringham. She outlined the mothers
work and read the different subjects of this
year’s plan.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett spoke of inviting
our husbands and sons to Rdlief Society
meetings so as when they were called on
missions they would know the order of the
Relief Society. Urged the sisters to gather
grain in the time and season and now is the
time. Teach our children the gospel so if
they are called to go and build up Jackson
county they will be prepared.
	Song by Mrs. Ethelwynne Collett, accom-
panied. by Miss Rose Hays, entitled, “Don’t
be Afraid.”
	President May Lambert reported Roose-
velt Relief Society. President Rachel Bas-
com reported Naples Relief Society—each
Society in good condition.
	Mrs. Minnie Horne James felt well in
hearing such good reports as she had heard;
urged the sisters to persevere in Relief So-
ciety work, and if each sister will study the
lectures they are the ones that will be bene-
fited, but if we just hear them and do not
study them, they will not do us much good.
She compared the gospel with other
churches.
	Song by a group of young girls from
Maeser, led by Mrs. Ethelwynne Collett, ac-
companied by Miss Rose Hays.
	Mrs. Annie K. Hardy spoke of the labors
of our aged fathers and mothers for our
benefit, also be kind to your small children;
said, sisters be patient with each other. She
exhorted the young sisters to be virtuous;

[Column 3]
and to be true to parents and friends, and
remember the teaching of their parents.
	Elder Dan B. Colton, counselor in the
stake presidency, gave excuse for President
William H. Smart not being there, was
pleased to see so many but there might be
more. He always felt to say God bless our
mothers, he thought the sin of indifference
was growing in our midst to a great extent;
spoke of keeping our girls at home, and
not let them go to mining camps to work;
gave counsel in regard to storing grain.
	President Nancy A. Colton felt to thank
all who had helped in this conference; gave
the visiting sisters a vote of thanks; ex-
plained how charity should be given.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “Come Let us Anew.” Benediction
by Elder Harry C. Hullinges.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.
			Uintah Stake Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS,
	Resolutions of Respect, in honor of Mrs. Lil-
lian Young:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father, in His divine
providence, has seen fit to call to himself our
beloved friend, sister, and co-laborer, Lillian A.
Young, and
	Whereas, We recognize in her a disposition
of sweet womanliness, a true mother, loving
wife, and real help-mate to her husband, and
	Whereas, Though faithful to her home duties,
her sympathies and interests extended beyond,
in that she was ever ready to perform her re-
ligious obligations, and
	Whereas, The poor and needy, the sick and
afflicted, the orphan and motherless, the suf-
ferer and the mourner, always found a friend
in her, and
	Therefore be it Resolved, That we, the offi-
cers and members of the Dublan Relief Society,
sympathize deeply with the husband, children
and relatives, and feel keenly Her loss as a
friend and co-laborer.
	Resolved, That we meekly bow to the will of
God in calling her home, as we believe to her
exaltation, and we humbly pray that the Lord
will send the comforting and soothing influ-
ence of his spirit to bless, comfort and uplift
her sorrowing family and friends.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon the books of the Relief Society,
that a copy be given to the husband and fam-
ly of our dear departed sister, and that a copy
be sent to El Progreso and one to the Wom-
an’s Exponent.
						BERTHA PRATT,
						LEXIA HARRIS,
								Committee.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Marilla M, Ricker is a candidate for
Governor of New Hampshire. The State
constitution does not permit women to vote,
but Mrs. Ricker says there is nothing in it
to prevent men from voting for a woman if
they wish.
	Mrs. Marie Moss Wheat, wife of R. P.
Wheat, manager of the government tele-
graph system in the Philippines, has voted
for President in Wyoming, Utah and Color-
ado, and has also practiced law in three
states. She was one time State President
of the Wyoming W. C. T. U. She is now
in Seattle, Washington, with her son, who
is preparing to enter the University of Mich-
gan.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
					67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

