	HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

		[Concluded.]
*		*		*		*		*
And then ere many weeks had passed,
Again on Helen’s boy was laid
A wasting fever’s cruel power.
	O, just as keen the mother’s fears
As o’er the helpless child she prayed
	As though he knew her love and tears.

For in the mother’s heart there grew
For him, bereft of reason, more
Of watchful care and sympathy
	Than all the rest combined possessed;
Through the dark pall his spirit bore
	She loved him more than all the rest.

And, clinging to him, holding back
The life that blankly lingered here,
And pleading but to keep him still
	Within her loving care;
He awakened, and she turned to hear
	More than the answer to her prayer.

For e’en as fever’s blight had cast
His mind in gloom and silence long,
So the same strange and wond’rous power
	Consumed the fetters and restored
Freedom and light and reason strong,
	In the due season of the Lord.

“Mother,” he whispered—oh, her face
So lighted up with wond’ring joy
As she leaned o’er and took his hand;
	“Mother, have I been sick? Don’t go
Out of the room and leave your boy;
	It seems so strange here, I don’t know

Where I have been, or how I’m here.”
She searched his eyes, their look was bright,
He answered back her trembling kiss
	And raised his feeble arms as though
To clasp and keep her in his sight,
	Then fast her joyous tears did flow,

And kneeling by his couch’s side
She held him to her throbbing breast;
And, as they were alone with God–
	“Father, it is Thy power, I know,
For Thou hast heard my prayers and blessed
	My soul with joys that overflow.”

A step drew near; she raised her hand—
“Dear wife, may I not join you yet
And share the vigils of your love?”
	Then something in her face he saw,
And in the eyes his question met,
	That filled and thrilled his soul with awe.

And as their son looked up to him
The wond’rous miracle he learned
And knelt in gratitude with her.
	“Dear wife, it is thy soul’s reward—
Our dear child’s reason has returned
	To him by favor of the Lord.

“Mine eldest son, my firstborn hope! 
Through him the Lord thy spirit proved;
Thou didst not blame or vainly mourn,
	But bore in patience His decree,
And on the altar—faith unmoved—
	Brought down His blessing upon thee.

“For love thou gavest Virginia’s child
God hath restored to thee thine own,
Nor moved him from his birthright’s place.
	For this Thy mercy we renew
Onr covenants before Thy throne,
	While here on earth, Thy will to do.”

Like some sweet music, rapturous, new,
Virginia the glad tidings heard,
And hastening to Helen’s side
	Saw in the boy’s changed, gentle face,
A look that all her being stirred
	And made the room a ascred place.

Oh, happier than ever now
The blessed days and weeks went on,
For gratitude made blest content.
	Each felt the other’s soul to be
One which from God Himself had drawn
	Approval that all Saints might see.
*		*		*		*		*
Row above row the lights flashed out,
The music hushed, a pause, and then

[Column 2]
A prelude strangely sweet stole forth,
	Half dreamy waltz, then as some bird
High soaring over hill and glen
	Till in the clouds the last is heard.

And while the echoes scarce had died
The singer came; their greeting bore
Not welcome only, but their praise.
	Oh, grandly beautiful she stood,
And cadence, and expression wore
	A pathos that no heart withstood,

Virginia’s eyes grew large and dark,
Her tender face still paler grew,
And as the strange, sweet singer, rapt
	In harmonies all but divine,
Poured out her soul, one hearer knew
	A dying life inspired each line.

Virginia followed tone by tone,
She knew the weariness and woe; 
And when the wav’ring figure passed
	From sight she said: “Take me to her,
I knew her once, not long ago;”
	Her husband rose without demur.

Almost too late, for marble like
The earth worn singer fainting lay,
Alone, afar from home and love;
	Virginia stood beside her, then
Found strength above her fears to say:
	“Signora, do we meet again?”

A thrill passed o’er the weary face.
The lustrous eyes looked up to see
The gentle speaker. Radiant joy
	Illumed her face “Virginia—thou?
Virginia—never more leave me,
	For thou art all I cling to now.”

She sang no more. They brought her home,
And in the few fleet days they learned
The lovely wanderer’s hapless fate.
	The phantom love that lured her on
To faithlessness, neglect, had turned
	And hope and strength at last were gone.

“Teach me thy faith, Virginia, now 
What thou doth cherish I receive;
Teach me thy peace and hope so sure;
	My babe again? and linked with thee?
Reason and love thy words believe—
	I wait thee in eternity.”

So died Honora in her arms,
And soon the sacred work was done—
The ordinances for the dead;
	And unto him she loved she gave
The dear and lost, the gifted one
	Resting at last within the grave.

Oft through her sleep came holy dreams,
And waking hours their meaning brought,
And threw a light on sacred lines;
	And whether in that dearest place,
Her home, or where her footsteps sought
	The poor and sorrowing, her face

Grew sweeter, nobler, year by year.
Time wrote fresh truths on her soul’s page, 
Adding that royal mien which comes
	To those who teach, and lead, and bless.
Until more beautiful is age
	Than even youth’s own loveliness.

And while through daily scenes she passed. 
She listened for the “still small voice”.
And closer sought God’s mysteries.
	Counting no sacrifice as loss,
But in its offering to rejoice,
	As fires that burn away the dross.

Adown the waking hours of night
Grand intuitions softly came
Of earth’s and heaven’s futurity.
	And through long hours with prayer alone,
Around her swept the holy flame,
	And wond’rous glories there were shown.

No savant’s love so deep as this—
No gems so rich and joy so sweet—
And naught so poor as this vain life.
	Like one who but prepares to go,
Yet first each duty would complete,
	These lines my pen has striven to show.

And these are “Mormon women." Seek
Through every vale where Saints abide,

[Column 3]
Like faith and purity are there.
	Though waves of hate and death may roll,
They cannot quench God’s light, nor hide
	His pathway from each martyr’s soul.

And when these lines of mine are read,
How many there will be who’ll say,
"I did not think she knew my life!”
	For oh, this story is the fruit
Of one grand Tree whose strength to-day
	Finds in ten thousand homes its root.

“Bearing such love as theirs?” Ah, yes,
I meet and find it everywhere;
Dearer than life, more strong than death;
	I recognize it as the sign
Of that which Gods and angels share—
	A portion of the Love Divine.

And now, dear friend, if I have used
My truthful pen not all in vain'
And you would wish to further search
	Still other points we hold as well,
O may some abler pen make plain
	Their truth and beauty. So, farewell.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Salt Lake City, 1882.


