				SPEECHES.

			COALVILLE, October 28, 1884.
	A large and attentive audience greeted Hon-
John T. Caine and party here last night, and
everybody was well entertained by the eloquent
addresses of the speakers. Every speaker was
the recipient of an unusual amount of applause
from the enthusiastic audience, which indicated
that they concurred with the speaker in the
ideas which were advanced, and the rebukes
administered upon the illiberal Liberals.
	John T. Caine delivered a most interesting ad-
dress, which gave evidence of diligent historic-
al research, and which was interspersed with
most profound logic. It showed how utterly un-
just it would be—if not unconstitutional—for
Congress to delegate the power of making the
laws for this Territory to a legislative commis-
sion; to abolish our Territorial form of govern-
ment and place our lives and our destinies in the
hands of a few grasping spoliators; to deprive
150,000 loyal American citizens of the right of
local self-government.  He cited authorities
from adjudged cases in the United States,and
quoted English history to support him in his
arguments. He ridiculed the remark made by
Ransford Smith, in Ogden, on Saturday last, to
the effect that he (Smith) would “excoriate”the
Democratic party for refusing to adopt a resolu-
tion offered by him last June in the Democratic
convention at Chicago, and particularly em-
phasized Smith’s proviso, '‘If I had time.” Mr.
Caine thought it would be really amusing to
witness Mr. Smith’s attempt to “excoriate”such
men as Benjaman F. Butler and Speaker Car-
lisle,and sympathised with him because he had
not the learning to support his pedantry nor the
bravery to support his egotism.
	Mr. Kenner mentioned how curious it was that
Ransford Smith, in his bombastic oration in
Ogden, had so carefully avoided the point at is-
sue—politics—but had been guilty of consider-
able plagiarism by quoting what could be found
in about five hundred law books, defining poly-
gamy and showing that there was little distinc-
tion between a principal and accessories to a
crime. He spoke of how the majority polled by
the People’s Party in each succeeding election
constantly increased notwithstanding the op-
position of the Liberals. He thought the Liber-
als had receded from point to point until there
was nothing left, but the name, and that was a
mi[-]nomer; and that ephemeral party would soon
pass "where the woodbine twineth.” He won-
dered if Mr. Smith would court like a woman,
for Smith said he would'do it “like a man,” and
wanted to know If Mr. Smith thought there
were nineteen women who would have him if
he did believe in polygamy.
	The addresses by the other gentlemen were
much shorter, as the lateness of the hour pre-
vented a very lengthy discussion of the matter
by all parties.
	Mr. Dusenberry explained how unjust the
Liberals were to accuse the people of Utah of
nullifying the laws simply because they deemed
it prudent to appeal from the decisions of some of
our mission judges in Utah.
	Mr. Sloan showed how  the diligence, and
hardihood of the Mormons had built up and de-
veloped Utah, and said it was all owing to their
peculiar religious system, which bound the peo-
ple together by ties of brotherly love.
	Mr. Sharp wondered how it was that Ransford
Smith admitted that he knew nothing of the
Mormon religion nor polygamy, but still pro-
ceeded to discuss both in a very scientific way.
	The audience was well pleased with the meet-
ing, and went home with a determination to
"wake up," as Judge Dusenberry said. The
Coalville brass band was present on the occasion
and played the “Swanee Ribbar” three times to
“ the attentive assembly.—EX.
