NOVEMBER ELECTION.

	It may be the opinion of some that this elec-
tion is not an important one because they feel so
sure of the strength of the People's Party. But
has it not always been the case when large
masses of people have been confident of
winning that the minority have come in and
carried off some of the honors. Not that the
Liberals could have any particular power at
present, but it is most unbecoming in the Peo-,
ple’s Party, under the present circumstances, to
be found luke-warm. To be up and doing and
each one at his post with the watch word “be
ye always ready," should be the aim of the
People’s Party at this most momentous time.
Young men and women should consider it not
only a duty, but a pleasure to go to the polls
and vote, for it is for them and their interests,
more than for their father’s and mother’s, that
they should be valiant. It is well for them if
they have had the necessary instruction and
discipline. Some are too lackadaisical for their
own good, and forget that it is the duty of each
individual to represent him or herself by the
ballot. The candidate, John T. Caine, is a man
of whose life and character not even his bitter-
est opposers can say anything disparaging,
and the People’s Party may well be proud of
such a delegate. There is every reason why he
should have the largest number of votes it is
possible to poll. The young people who are now
called upon more particularly to take the greater
responsibility ought to be up and awake and
seek to maintain the rights of the people of
Utah, that the citizens, who are now disfran-
chised, laid the foundation of and made it easy
for them to build, upon. Let no opportunity pass
wherein you can show your integrity to the
People’s Party. It would be culpable indeed in
the young women as well as the young men if
they do not come out and vote on this grand oc-
casion. The privileges of this people are few
enough already, but by all means maintain those
few with dignity, and prove yourselves deserv-
ing of more by your diligence and vigilance in
every place where there is an opportunity. Let
the Utah delegate go to Congress with the as-
surance made doubly sure, by the enormous
number of votes cast for him, that he is not
only the choice of the People’s Party, but that
they are ready to accord him all honor, and
prove their confidence in him by their works as
well as words.


[Column 1]
