PATTY SESSIONS.
[Continued.]
Looking over the diary kept by Sister Ses-
sions of her journeyings from the State of
Maine all the way up to Missouri in 1837, I
found many interesting items, but to attempt to
give them here would occupy too much space,
but I noticed one or two things that transpired
in Missouri that I thought proper to mention.
She says that on the 7th of January, 1838,
Elder Lyman Wight and Father Morley
preached, and in the evening there was a bless-
ing meeting, and her husband, herself, Peregrine,
Julia and Slyvia, her children, received a pa-
triarchal blessing under the hands of Father
Morley. She writes again on the 4th of Feb-
ruary that she is 43 years old; says, “Father
Morley came down and held a blessing meeting
at Bro. Daniel’s last night, preaches here to-
day.”
	Sister Sessions carries her babe to the meet-
ing and has it blessed according to the order of
the Church. She writes, “I rejoice that I live
in a day when the gifts and blessings are res-
tored and ordinances attended to as in days of
old. 25 th. To-day we go to the city to hear
Joseph the Prophet preach. April 6th go to
the city to the anniversary meeting; 14th make
a visit to Joseph Smith; 21st Sylvia was mar-
ried to Windsor P. Lyon, Joseph Smith per-
formed the ceremony. David W. Patten was
here when Sylvia was married and preached,
while here, at Peregrine’s. The next day the
Prophet was there and a good time it was.
Last Sunday we went to hear Brigham
Young, it being the 29th day of April.”
	During all this time we find Sister Sessions
performing daily household duties and attend-
ing obstetrical cases regularly. Very frequently
one sees in her diary entries like this: “Rode
twelve miles last night, put Sister ---- to bed,
fine boy, etc. --rode six miles and put Sister ----
to bed with a pair of twins, difficult case, se-
vere labor, but the Lord blessed us and we got
through all right, patient safe, etc.” July 16
Sister Sessions says Peregrine started for the
East, a journey of about two thousand miles,
left us all well; the middle of August we all
were taken sick with fever and ague. Nov. 1
Far West surrendered and we were ordered by
the government to leave the State of Missouri;
29th of Nov. Peregrine returned home from
the East. February 15 we leave our home and
calculate to leave the State, get to Branch
Creek the first night in company with Bros.
Burnham, York, Pack, and all our families.
16, go to Tinney’s Grove; 17, get on to the 20
mile prairie; 18, get to Thomas’ tent; 19, get to
Henry Ashley’s, go into the house and get
some coverlets;  *  20, go through
Keatsville, tent at night; 21, go through Hunts-
ville, tent again; 22, go to Mr. Grimin’s,stay in
the house; 23rd go to Rayland’s, stay in a
house, it rains and we stay over Sunday, the
24th, find the folks very accomodating; 25th
go on and find very muddy roads, tent out;
26th still muddy, and we have to tent out, cold,
wet and inclement, no shelter but a tent, a sick
babe and no comforts. Trust in God and pray
for courage and endurance. 27th, roads very
bad, but we reach the banks of the river and
find many of our brethren and sisters encamped
on the bank that cannot get across. Have got
a very good place for tenting, but the wind
blows hard; it is cold and there is some snow
falling. There is no crossing with a ferry boat
now, the river is full of ice.”
	March 1st 2nd and 3rd, according to the
journal, continues much the same. She speaks
of visiting a sick child, and of the child dying.
She was sent for far and near in times of sick-
ness for advice and assistance.
	The 5th day the Saints began to cross over
to the other side. The 6th, ice almost out of
the river. The 7th, the wind blew fiercely,
making it difficult to cross. On the 8th
Windsor and Sylvia cross the river; Julia was
taken sick, bnt on the 9th Bro. and Sister Ses-
sions and family go over and stay all night at
Quincy. The 10th they go on, and Julia be-
ing very sick they are obliged to stop and have
the Elders administer to her. The days are
much the same, they move on a few miles at a
time, and meanwhile Sister Sessions takes the
ague, and both herself and her daughter Julia
are very ill.
	On the 14th they arrive at Carthage, find a
house to go into. About the first week in
April, after one or two more changes, they
move into a house of their own.
	On the 27th of June her son Peregrine
started east on a mission in company with Bro.
McArthur and Bro. Jackson. On the 2nd of
May, 1840, the family move to Nauvoo, and on
the 2nd of June Peregrine returns from his
mission. Bro. Sessions builds a house, and
in September of the same year they move in-
to it.
	The next event of importance Sister Sessions
has recorded in her diary is the death of her
little daughter, the babe she brought in her
arms from Missouri in the middle of winter.
She died with croup. This seems to have been
a heavy affliction for the fond mother, but she
prays for strength and grace, and she has left
in her diary these precious words, “The Lord
giveth and the Lord taketh away, blessed be
the name of the Lord.” The little one was
three years, six months and one day old
	On the 11th of June, 1842, Bro. Sessions
started for the State of Maine with Bro. Pack.
She writes: “He left me alone, and I am very
lonesome.” That was Saturday, but the next
day she went to meeting and Orson Pratt

[Column 3]
preached in the morning and she was refreshed.
In the afternoon there was a temperance lecture
by a Mr. Miller, and G. Bishop and Wm.
Marks spoke. From this time she seems to
have been more busy than ever with her pro-
fession. She speaks of visits from Bro. Joseph
and Bro. Willard Richards, and on the 18th
she says Joseph spoke concerning Dr. Bennett
and cut him off the Church.
	On the 23rd Sister Sessions speaks of attend-
ing “theFemale Relief Society,and on the 24th,
went to see the Masons and hear an oration.
On the 25th, went to visit Mother Smith. 26th,
went to meeting and heard Brigham Young
preach in the morning and Bro. Cahoon in the
afternoon.” On the 4th of July she speaks of
the parade, and on the 7th she went to the Re-
lief Society again. Again on the 10th went
to meeting and Bro. Woodruff preached. On
the 23rd of July Sister Sessions writes in her
diary, “Mother Smith was here to visit me,”
and on the 24th went to the Relief Society and
signed a petition to send to the governor of the
state.” This was the first petition of the Relief
Society, and it was then quite an event in the
history of women.


