BY THE PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL CENTRAL
COMMITTEE.
TO THE PEOPLE OF UTAH TERRITORY:
	The election to be held Nov. 4th, 1884, for
Delegate to the Forty-ninth Congress, is one of
unusual importance and political significance to
the people of Utah.
	At no time since the organization of the Ter-
ritorial government has there existed stronger
reasons for an unequivocal manifestation of the
full strength and influence of the People's party.
The friends of free government find themselves
to-day, as in years past, opposed by an unscru-
pulous revolutionary faction composed, it is true,
of an insignificant minority of our population,
yet seeking by the establishment of a Legisla-
tive Commission to subvert and abolish the
forms of free government and wrest from the
people the last semblance of political liberty.
That faction whose only achievements in the
past has been to seek by misrepresentation and
slander to blight the fair face of Utah with a
pestilence worse than death, now has the un-
blushing effrontery to invoke your suffrages for
a candidate who stands upon a platform dedica-
ted to the proposition that you are unworthy the
boon of suffrage. A candidate who seeks by
the vote of his  fellow citizens to obtain power to
deprive them of the right to vote is certainly an
anomaly in American politics, and the idea is
peculiarly characteristic of the minority faction
in this Territory.
	The election of 1882 for Delegate to Congress
was rendered conspicuous by its being the first
under the operation of the Edmunds law; and
notwithstanding the disfranchisement of a
large portion of the People's party, the candi-
date of that party was elected by an almost un-
precedented majority and the opposing faction
nearly demoralized, as manifested by its recent
feeble effort at reorganization.
	We call your attention to the fact that the is-
sues are the same to-day as they were in 1882,
viz: the perpetuation of free government in the
hands of the majority as against the establish-
ment of the worst form of despotism in the
hands of the minority. The candidate of the 
People's party has been tried in the position and
has proved himself adequate to the discharge of
every duty and responsibility pertaining thereto;
he was unanimously nominated for re-election
by a regular convention of the People's Party; it
is therefore our duty to elect him by an increased
majority in proportion at least to the increase of
population since 1882, and at the same time ad-
minister again a terrible rebuke to the cham-
pions of despotism and the enemies of free gov-
ernment.
	By the People's Territorial Central Commit-
tee.

JOHN SHARP, Chairmen,
THEO MCKEAN, Secretary.
Salt Lake City, October 24, 1884.


