THE LATEST SENSATION.
				______

	Salt Lake has certainly had a sensational
topic during the past few weeks in the Clawson
trial.  The principal persons and most of the
witnesses summoned were people so well known
and so highly respected that the feeling and
sympathy have been most intense in relation to
the matter.
	The daily papers have had plenty of items to
make their columns attractive, and the tele-
graph operators have had  a good supply of regu-
lar messages to transmit over the wires.
Judges, lawyers, prosecuting attorneys, mar
shalls and their deputies, have all been exces-
sively busy; indeed it was the general remark on
the street, when one met a friend, “Have you
been served with a subpoena?"
	The trial was fraught with the deepest inter-
est, not only to the immediate friends and per-
sonal acquaintances of the defendent, but to the
Latter-day Saints generally, and the anxiety
has not lessenad in regard to the result.
	The lawyers employed for the defendant
made some very able speeches, and if these are
read by the people generally they will get a
more correct idea of the true status of the rights
and privileges that are to be observed in all
cases, and of the justice to which every indi-
vidual person is entitled.  We should be glad
to publish the speeches of Lawyer Bennett and
the Hon. F. S. Richards, but our columns are
not sufficient, but we advise all the ladies who
have not read them to read them carefully.  Our
sisters should take care to inform themselves in
regard to public matters, the transactions of
courts, the empanneling of juries, and while
having the franchise know something of the
government, its executive and judicial power
and authority, and not be deceived as to the ex-
tent of power an officer holds.  As, for instance,
to believe contempt of court is felony and simi-
lar things.
	Rudger Clawson is a young man born and
raised in this community, exemplary in his
life and conduct, moral in every respect, not-
withstanding all the cruel and wicked asper-
sions cast upon him because he believes in
plural marriage, and has conscientiously ac-
cepted it practically.  He is a devoted Latter-
day Saint, and has been from his boyhood up.
He proved his valor for the truth when in
Georgia at the time Elder Standing was shot
down by the mob, and he no doubt accepts the
Savior’s words in their full meaning, “Fear not
him who can kill the body, but fear him who
can cast both soul and body into hell.”  God will
watch over his people continually, and will de-
liver them from the hands of the wicked and
ungodly, although some may have to suffer
from the oppression of their enemies, yet will
He make the wrath of man to praise him, even
as He hath said so it shall be.
	Rudger Clawson is one of those who would
rather die than prove unworthy the cause he
has espoused, or untrue to his integrity as a
Latter-day Saint.
	And, after all, what will be gained by his con-
viction?  What honor or glory will it be to any
man or to the Federal Courts of Utah Territory?
They know very well that he married Lydia
Spencer conscientiously, believing it to be a
solemn obligation and no doubt considering all
the consequences it might involve, yet bravely
trusting in divine power, and praying for infi-
nite wisdom to direct him aright.  There is no
doubt a time will come when men will find that
there are graver and more serious difficulties to
adjust than the family relations of the “Mor-
mons.”  But for the present they gracefully
submit to the powers that be, ever hoping and
anticipating the good time coming, when jus-
tice shall be meted out to all, and then “Mor-
mons” will have as many rights allowed them
as other citizens of this great commonwealth.


