A MORMON WOMAN’S VIEWS.
				_____

	My ideas upon plural marriage are all based
upon religion.  I only accept it as a revelation
in its most sacred phase.  Mormon women
accept plural marriage as a principle of faith,
as conscientiously as they accept baptism; and
many of them have had powerful and direct
testimonies from heaven in regard to its being
correct doctrine.
	To enter practically into this holy order of
matrimony it is absolutely essential to be de-
voted soul and body to the establishment of
the Church of God upon the earth.  Religion
must be dearer than all things else, and one
must be capable of exercising great faith in
God and live nearer to Him in the strictest
sense of the word, for it necessitates laying all
upon the altar to embrace it.  The life to come
must be ever kept in view; we do not live so
much for this little interval of time here, but
to attain to an existence which is everlasting,
where progression will be eternal, and where
there will be no limit, to increase, and the ex-
altation will be glorious beyond all, “For eye
hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor hath it en-
tered into the heart of man to conceive.”
	Such marriages for time and for all eternity,
with so much at stake are in very deed a sacra-
ment, as all marriages should be.  It is the
most holy and sacred relation that unites man
and woman together, and demands from each
the highest and truest form of love, that love
which is founded upon principle, not impulse,
for feelings must not be allowed to control the
actions of life, but principle must be the ruling
power.
	It is only those who are pure-minded and


whole-souled who will endure the responsibili-
ties, trials and temptations incident to this pe-
culiar order of marriage, because the actual
existing circumstances are such as to require
almost constant self-discipline and unselfish
consideration for the feelings of others. This,
however, will, if persevered in, eventually re-
sult in a higher spiritual development, for the
best emotions and affections will be brought in-
to constant exercise—patience, long-suffering,
gentleness, forbearance, meekness, and that
sweet charity which teaches us to do to others
as we would wish them to do unto us, and to
love our neighbor as our self.  We have been
taught that love is selfish, that it creates jeal-
ousy, but the highest and best form of love is
that which is capable of the greatest sacrifice
for the good of another. Women who coven-
ant to live in plural marriage must be deter-
mimed to respect each other’s rights and privil-
eges and not infringe in any degree upon each
other, and must teach all the children to ob-
serve the same principles, in order to preserve
order and harmony, which must exist in the
home and family, or the spirit of the Lord and
of peace could not abide in the habitation.
	There is one other great advantage to women
in this peculiar order of marriage beside the
higher spiritual elevation, and this is the
strength of character which is necessarily de-
veloped. When there are several wives, or even
two, we will say, women are left to depend
more upon their own judgment and to take
more fully the charge of their own home and
affairs; this brings into requisition many latent
powers in woman’s nature, which would, under
other circumstances, have lain dormant, and
she finds herself capable of being something
more than a plaything, or a hot-house plant—
she becomes in a great measure the head of her
own household and the intelligent companion
of her husband. She naturally feels a posi-
tive pride in rendering herself equal to the
position, and is consequently relf-reliant, dig-
nified in character, and capable of great moral
heroism.
	This sort of compulsory education makes
women better mothers and more efficient in
the training and governing of the children, in
which so many mothers are sadly deficient.
The first principle in the management of child-
ren is self discipline. It is utterly useless to
attempt to control others when one has not ac-
quired the habit of self-control,and it is through
the lack of this self-consciousness that so many
fail in family government.
	There, are many good reasons both in nature
and in Scripture that might be brought for-
ward to prove that the practice of plural mar-
riage is consistent, as well as right and proper.
A special command has been given, and there
are circumstances and conditions that required
this change. In the very beginning, at the
creation, the first commandment given by our
Father, was, “Be fruitful and multiply and re-
plenish the earth.” Those who are at all ac-
quainted with physiology know that man’s
capacity for increase is unlimited, while with
woman it is entirely different.
	Again, when God blessed Abraham he sim-
ply said to him, “Thy posterity shall be as the
sands upon the seashore,” which was the great-
est bles ing he could bestow. There are many
other p usages in the Bible that would help to
substant  te the doctrine of a plurality of
wives, ou ve find many people who will not
accept Bio e evidence, but prefer the living
oracles, and to them no better explanation
need be given than the existing state of society,
to show that some purifying element is needed.
Men and women of the world acquainted with
the statistics of large cities testify to the cor-
ruptions that abound in them, and talk of edu-
cation and moral suasion and Christian influ-
ences being brought to bear to remedy the pre-
vailing sins of the age. But the muddy and
corrupt stream flows on still, and the few re-
formers who are, as it were, agitating the
waters seem, powerless to change the nature of
the stream in its present course. But suppose
a small part of that large stream was turned
into another channel, and an effort made to
purify it, would it be so very difficult? Rea-
son tells us no! We can all comprehend this
sort of method, and this is the way in which
the Lord intends to purify a people here upon
the earth. He has marked  out a plan by
means of which, those who will come out from
Babylon and separate themselves and partake
not of her sins, may escape the plagues and
cleanse themselves from the evils that exist,
and are increasing in the world. God’s ways 
are not as man’s ways, and when He marks out
a plan, that is the only path to be pursued in
order to attain the desired object.
	The evils that are undermining the social
structure of modern society baffle the skill of
the learned and the eminent, and the wisest
savants of the age find no sure remedy, nor will
they accept the plan marked out by the Proph-
et of God any more than would the people in
Noah's day believe him, when he was sent to 
warn them; they  must therefore abide the con-
sequences of their unbelief.
    "Custom rules us all," is an old, but true
saying. Monogamy has been so extensively
practised that tbe change to plural marriage is
like tearing down an iron wall, which requires
skill and wisdom. Men and women rave about
polygamy, as it is termed, and its evils and so
on, and if there is one woman who happens to
be dissatisfied or in any way neglected or mis-
treated consider it a sufficient pretext to make
a law to prevent the practice, while hundreds
and thousands of women are every day suffer-
ing abuse, neglect, scorn, and going down into 
untimely graves through the excess and 
wickedness of men in the world, and  it is the cus-
tom of the country. How true it is that men
seek to "pull the mote out of" another's eye
when a beam is in their own.
	One argument often used against plurality
of wives is that there is nearly an equal num-
ber of each sex born. The answer might be
many more males die from various causes, the
labors they engage in, wars, life upon the sea,
etc. But again, thousands of men never do
and never will marry, while almost every
woman inclines to marriage; it is inherent in
her very nature, and having no opportunity
for marriage, we see  thousands of women
who cannot fulfill the primeval law of their
creation. There are, of course, many points
to be considered in this connection.
    There is no limit to this subject, but in con-
clusion we will repeat what we said in the be-
ginning; we accept it in its sacred phase as a 
divine revelation,and believe it to be the con-
dition that will raise a higher standard of
morals for society, and will ultimately result in
removing the curse pronounced upon woman in
the garden of Eden, knowing that God's ways
are not as man's ways, and that "He knoweth
best" what will redeem mankind from the evils
which they have been subjected to in the past.
