	BY HELEN MAE WHITNEY.

	(Continued.) 
	The father of Zebedee Coltron died in our
camp on the night of the 31st, also another
man who had traveled with Dr. Patten.
	On the evening of September 1st Brother
Woodworth and family arrived; all sick. They
encamped outside ofthe square a little distance
from our tent. We had a temporary bedstead
prepared and took their daughter, Flora Gove,
into our tent, where I nursed her until she re-
covered her strength. Her husband was also
sick with fever; she had lain helpless for many
days, and her heavy raven locks were so matted
together that it took me hours to comb them
out. We had lived neighbors in Nauvoo, and
were old schoolmates. She was older than my-
self and was sealed to the Prophet Joseph as
his wife. This happened before I was aware of
the principle. A young man boarding at her
father’s, after the death of Joseph not a mem-
ber of the Church had sought her hand, in
time won her heart, and in a reckless moment
she was induced to accept his offer and they
eloped to Carthage, accompanied by a young
lady friend,and were there married by a Justice
of the Peace. Flora was never happy with
him as he hated the Mormons, and she felt
condemned for the rash step she had taken.
She made this confession to me while I was
nursing her, and said she desired to cling to
Joseph hereafter.
	They settled at the “Point,” and she paid me
a visit the following winter. She still expressed
herself as strong in the faith of the Gospel,
also her great desire to cleave to the Prophet.
I never saw her again as she died at that place,
leaving two or three children. Joseph Smith
gave her father the title of “Pagan Prophet.”
He came with his family to the Valley, where
he left them and went to California and never
returned. Her mother was a true saint and a
very gifted woman, well known and respected
by thousands of the saints in Utah. 
	I have given this little incident in the life of
Flora truthfully, and it ought to teach a lesson
to those who read it, for no Latter-day Saint
can find happiness in marriage with an unbe-
liever as soon as the illusion which bewildered
them wears off; they find no true companion-
ship, and remorse will come, though, alas, too
late to retrace their steps.
	On Monday the 31st Horace mentions Pres-
ident Young, H. C. Kimball, Bishop Whitney,
Fathers Cutler and Cahoon and several of the
High Council, some on horseback, others in
wagons, starting up the river to look out the
winter location. Tbey traveled 25 or 30 miles
the first day and encamped on the “Horn.”
The next morning they retraced their steps
toward the old Fort of Council Bluffs. Com-
ing to a creek they had to make a bridge, “af-
ter crossing which, instead of ascending the
ridge on the right hand, they kept on through
the bottom, which was covered with very high
grass, which soon grew so thick that they got
entangled in it and were forced to cut a pas-
sage in some places; it was so high, too, that
they could not see over it, although they stood
up on their horses. After pursuing this route
for some time in momentary danger of getting
“swamped,” they at length emerged from it
and went upon the bluff, which was so steep
that they had to dismount from their horses
and let them ascend by themselves.  
	They saw the “Fort” in the distance, apparent-
ly about six miles off—they soon came to an-
other brook or ravine, where they were again
obliged to build a sort of bridge—throwing in
stuff of different kinds that they might be en-
abled to cross. The sun was about an hour
high when they arrived at the “Fort," which
consisted of the ruins of a few old buildings

[Column 2]
the principal of which was the “Magazine”—
the walls were of stone, about eight feet high,
which had formerly been arched over with
brick, but had mostly fallen in—they went on
about a mile further and encamped for the
night at the head of a ravine. 
The next day they returned home but little
satisfied with the result of their journey.”
	On the same day Horace says, “A commit-
tee of three, viz.: Orson Pratt, J. M. Grant
and Brother Bird were sent to confer with the
Omahaws and the Otoes concerning our remain-
ing on the land here.”


