WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING.

	The daughters of the Dean of Westminster
are preparing a book upon the Abbey, which
will be ready during the present autumn.

	Two more French ladies have received the
diploma of bacheleures-es-lettres:  Mddles Hele-
na and Marie de Vacasseo.  Three others have 
received the title of bacheleures-es-sciences:
Mddles. Revella, Liegust and Havest.

	A statue to a woman has been unveiled re-
ently in New Orleans.  The first erected to a

[Column 2]
woman in the United States.  It is to Margar
et Honhgery, who devoted her immense wealth
to the care of orphan children.

	Reports of the recent summer Matriculation
Examination at the Melbourne University state
that twenty lady candidates passed from Mel-
bourne, seven from Ballarat and three from 
Landhurst.

	Signora Carla Serena died lately at Athens.
She was born in Venice and educated in Ger-
many.  She was a woman of great literary
ability as well as grandly benevolent.  Shortly
after commencing to write for the press she be-
gan to travel, visiting Scandinavia, Greece,
Constantinople, Russia, the Caspian Sea and
Persia.  In this latter place she spent a winter
and was once arrested as a spy and under a 
strong gaurd conducted to the frontier, not-
withstanding her letters of recommendation.
Her journeyings were so charmingly written
that they appear like romances, so says the
Gazette de Torino.
	The titles of her book published in Paris are
"From the Baltic to the Caspian," "A Europe-
an Lady in Persia," "Men and Things in Per-
sia," "Alone in the Steppes," and "Excursion
in Abhasia" (on the Black Sea).  She pos-
sessed great courage and fortitude as a travel-
er, and it is said that finding no photographs
representing the Caucasus, the scene of her
book, she bought a complete photographic ap-
paratus, packed it off by mail to Tiflis and
from thence on the back of a mule and traveled
herself again through the country, taking pho-
tographic sketches, with which she returned tri-
umphant to Paris.
	
	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, author of "Beyond
the Gates," has another new book just out,
"Dr. Zay"—this book is said to be the most 
fascinated one written by this celebrated au-
thoress and poet.  "Dr. Zay is a strong, sweet
womanly character."  "Women look upon her
as a tower of strength."

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe has been selected by
the managers of the world's fair that is to be
opened in New Orleans in December, to pre-
side over the department of woman's work, and
has established her headquarters of the World's 
Exposition at New Orleans, at No. 5 Park 
Street, Room 10, Boston.  Mrs. Howe requests 
all connected with this work throughout the
country to communicate with her at once, and
also requests the press of the United States to
give this notice the fullest publicity, as the time
is very short.

	Women took out patents during the week
ending September 30, 1884, as follows:
	Emma G. Munn, Vassar, Mich., Heat- Indi-
cator for ovens.
	Mary M. Wagner, Baltimore, Md., Combined
bureau and bedstead; also combined folding 
bedstead and table.
	During the week ending Oct. 7, 1884, the 
following patents were granted to women:
	Nancy J. Langley, Boston, Improved Grid-
iron.
	Maria L. Mathews, Neward, N. J., Fruit
Press.
	Harriet W. Strong, Oakland, Cal., Device
for raising and lowering windows.—Ex.


The next annual meeting of the American
Woman Suffrage Association will be held in
Chicago, the third week in November.

	On the 4th of November the great national
question, who will be elected to the highest
office in the land, will be decided—and the
People’s Party in Utah will also decide an im-
portant matter by electing with an overwhelm-
ing majority Hon. John T. Caine to the 49th
Congress of the United States.


