	PIMA, ARIZONA
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Ladies’ Quarterly Conference of this
stake convened at Pima, October 3rd, at 10
a.m., President Willmirth East presiding.
Singing. Prayer by President C. Layton.
Singing. Minutes and reports read and ap-
proved. Verbal reports were then given by
the presidents of their respective wards. 
	President East then addressed the conference.
Some of the most important subjects treated
upon by her were punctuality to be observed
in the society; mothers to teach their children
to be honest and to attend to their prayers; en-
courage home industry in all its branches; that
we honor the principles of celestial marriage,
and discourage speaking lightly or holding in
derision that sacred principle. Said we live
in an eventful period, and that we should pre-
pare ourselves, for the trials that await us re-
quired us to be humble and prayerful. In-
structed the sisters to note the date of sub-
scribing for the EXYONENT, so as to be pre-
pared to renew the same when due, and to try
and encourage the circulation of the paper.
Spoke very encouragingly to the sisters on the
subject of storing grain.
	President Layton was the next speaker.—
Expressed his pleasure at meeting with the sis-
ters in a conference capacity; also in hearing
the reports of the different branches of Relief
Society in the several wards; asked us to be
kind to the poor and administer to their wants,
and comfort those who are called to mourn.
Invoked the blessings of God upon us.
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. Benediction by
Mary L. Ransom.
	2 p.m. After the usual opening exercises
the local officers were presented before the
conference and sustained. The time was then
devoted to the Y. L. and P. A. in hearing re-
ports, and instructing the young upon the
principles of their religion. Closing remarks
by a sister, who had lately come from Salt
Lake City, who said she had attended a great
many conferences, but had never heard more
important subjects treated upon than those in-
troduced by the presiding board during the
conference. Dwelt upon the subject of faith
as being one of the leading features of our re-
ligion.
	Conference adjourned to meet at St. David,
Friday, January 2nd, 1885: Benediction by
Patriarch McBride.
	LUCINDA GUSTAFSON, Secretary.


