	TO THE WOMANS’S JOURNAL, BOSTON

	The right of self-government for one half
the American people is the-most momentous
and important question that this nation was
ever called on to consider;—a question so vital
and far-reaching in its consequences that the
life or death of all political parties, the success
or failure of all other issues, are as nothing
weighed in the balance with it. And for the
reason that not one single question affecting
the interests of humanity can ever be satisfac-
torily settled, until we have the united thought
of enlightened men and women in its read-
justment. We cannot bring order and har-
mony out of our present chaotic conditions un-
til the masculine and feminine elements are in
exact equillibrium. Thus far in the history of
the race, the masculine element has dominated,
giving us governments of force, religions of
terror, and social conditions of slavery. Our
work is to exalt the feminine element, to re-
store a normal womanhood, and by education,
higher development, and moral power, help to
mould the state, the church, and the home, on
sound principles of justice and equality.
	There is great fear expressed lest with en-
larged liberty woman will “unsex herself.”
That is exactly the difficulty under the pres-
ent restrictions. The mass of our women are
nothing but faint echoes of men, accepting un-
questioned their systems of government and
jurisprudence, the absurdities and dogmas of
of their different forms of religion, and all
their various theories of social life, according
to the latitude and longitude in which they
were born. Hence, in trying to build up a
normal type of womanhood, we are compelled
to overcome the prejudices of centuries, the
hostility of man to any invasion of his author-
ity, and, worst of all, the apathy and indiffer-
ence of woman herself. The majority of
women could not be more thoroughly “unsexed”
than they are to-day, moulded by the mascu-
line idea, and guided,by the masculine will.
The world still waits for a grand type of true
womanhood to be born.
	But while working faithfully to this end, we
must avail ourselves of every opportunity for
popular surface work, whenever, however, and
wherever it can be accomplished. For this
reason, political parties, in Presidential cam-
paigns, are of some service to us for purposes
of agitation. At such times there is a gen-
eral revival of the interests of the people in
questions outside the usual routine of their
daily lives, hence it is important for reformers
to wave their banners from the most conspicu-
ous point of view; to issue their protests, ap-
peals, and letters of acceptance, as they get a
circulation and hearing which cannot be se-
cured at any other time. Thus, wholly inde-
pendent of their intrinsic merits, they serve
the purpose of a widespread agitation of their
ideas of government.
	Some of us have been arraigned for advis-
ing the members of the National Association
to “stand by the Republican party.” Knowing
full well that all the parties and nominees alike


have other questions nearer their hearts than
woman suffrage, it matters not to us whether
it is protection, prohibition, finance, or labor,
so long as our question in not primal. Hence
our choice is the Republican party, as it has a
grand record in the past for noble deeds and
words, and in its ranks we find the largest
number of statesmen favorable to our move-
ment.  Then, too, we have a small craft an-
chored in their harbor, "with something to tie
to,” and fair promises of protection.  If we 
cannot trust the republican party, which has
a local habitation and a name, where shall we
look?  We cannot follow the independents, for
they have not told us what they believe, or
whither they are going.  The Prohibitionists
may prove a myth, as they always have done
when the time came for voting.  The constit-
uents of the working-men’s party make up
the rank and file of the large majorities that
have gone dead against woman suffrage in
every State where the proposition has been 
submitted. As to the Democratic party, it
has had no policy or leaders for a quarter of a
century, Now it would be folly for us.  with
our little craft (in the shape of a special com-
mittee, a 16th amendment, and a bundle of
petitions), to go forth on the great ocean of un-
certainty, to trust to Cleveland, Butler or St.
John to throw us a rope in time of danger.  if
any of them found their vessels too heavily
laden for a Presidential campaign, no doubt
woman suffrage would be the first part of the
cargo to be thrown overboard.
	Now we have had a narrow contracted little
state room for many years on the Republican
ship, with such men as Anthony, Sargent, Lap-
ham, Hoar, Blair, and later, Reed, Taylor,
McLoed and Bunne, to give us ever and anon
some crumbs of comfort.  Humiliating as our
position is, it is better than to be thrown over-
board to the fishes.  There is every reason to
suppose the Republicans will cling to us, aud
hold us in reserve, as the next best card to
play.  After having turned the negro into
every possible shape, made all the capital they
can out of him, the women, in the order of
Providence, must come next; and it is not the
interest of the Republicans to preserve our
lives until that hour comes.  If, in this gen-
eral disintegration of parties, a new one shall
arise with a solid woman suffrage plank in its
platform, it will be time enough for us, when
we see its battalions forming, to get ready to
march in its procession.
