	MTS. B. SPURLOCK..

	“For whosoever shall do the will of my Father
which is in heaven the same is my brother and
sister and mother,” prompted me to seek out
those whose hearts were tender and true to suf-
fering humanity; that I might clasp hands with
them and whisper a word of comfort to those
whose keeping was entrusted to their care in
this city.
	First in course I came to St. Marks Hospital,
well governed methought, for “immediately”
was the watchword of the writer of that most
positive epistle that bears his name. Here we
found the kind, intelligent gentlewoman, Mrs.
Prout, in the keeping of the same, who has giv-
en direction and carried it forward for years.
Everywhere an atmosphere of comfort and
quiet and continuous attention is to be observed.
The inmates were cheered at my coming, and
I realized the truth of the wise man’s proverb,
“It is more blessed to go to the house of mourn-
ing than to a house of rejoicing.”
	Next I visited the “Hospital of the Holy
Cross.” This name, too, is talismanic, and no
misnomer, wide spreading gronnds beautifully
designed, and a magnificent building, delighting
the eye of the passer-by and cheering the in-
coming patients. Here “Sisters of the Sacred
Heart,” are moving up and down the commodi-
ous halls, in and out of the wards with noiseless
tread. Prayerfully I trow, administering to the
wants of others, in the name of the immaculate
Lamb of Calvary, who gave His life a ransom
for earth’s perishing millions. I thought the
ministry of theirs was God-like and these will
have an abundant entrance to the city that is
eternal.
	Third, and last in our course, came the “Des-
eret Hospital,” “A rock in a weary land,” a
Bethel on the plains beside the sea.
	Here we find the old Deseret University con-
verted into an “infirmary,” giving to its in-
mates large, airy rooms, well arranged and a de-
lightful ventilation. An air of home-like feel-
ing greets you on its very threshold; the kind-
-hearted, sweet-faced matron, “Sister Jones,” al-
ways greets you with a warm welcome. The
patients are in the main ladies, and among the
number are some that are aged, but their hearts
are young and tender with love's beautiful touch
of perennial spring, gladness and patient endur-
ance. Young mothers are there that must
needs come from afar to have medical skill not
possible at home; but the gentle, efficient care
that they there receive shortens the hours and
brings the loved ones at home near by, even
though the crib is rocked by other hands than
“mama's,” and hushed by other “lullabys” than
“Hush my babe.”
	This Hospital is under the medical advise-
ment of a young talented Miss M. P. Hughes,
M. D. She is a graduate of a three fold diplo-
matic inheritance; by dint of almost unpreced-
ented study and indefatigable energy. She
staggers not at the most difficult clinical or sur-
gical work of the Hospital. she has at this
time a case of the most intricate and complica-
ted hip joint disease, which she is handling with
marked ability and satisfaction. It is certainly
very complimentary for one of her years and
brevity of practice.
	Closing I will say of these homes for the af-
flicted: They have no holidays of “red tape,”
exhibit. I have been there in the morning early,
at noon time high, and at dusky eve; and have
ever found the same watchful vigilance and
tender care being evinced. Parting from one of
the present patients, just as we were taking our
departure she beckoned us back and said: “Oh
they are so kind to us here; we are treated just


like queens.” To those who keep away from
these homes of suffering, I would say you rob
God of your power to cheer and comfort others
and lose the—“inasmuch as you have done it
unto the least of these you have done it unto
me.”


