VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1882.	No. 9.


WHAT DOES IT MATTER TO ME?

If a stormcloud be over us riven,
	The very next thing that we know—
		Right over us bending—
		A glory transcending,
	Is the promised, the beautiful Bow.
So if justice be from us withheld;
	Or there's something we'd like that we see;
		If we can't now obtain it,
		In time we may gain it,
	I wont let it matter to me.

Dame Fortune herself, like a see-saw,
	Pulls even her pets up, and down;
		While some are lamenting,
		She's something inventing—
	To lift them to wealth or renown.
But 'tis best not to trust to her always,
	"Work and wait," to success, 'tis the key,
		What if fortune be blind?
		Or to others more kind,
Need it matter to you or to me ?

If you needs must appear out of date—
	To hold up your head have a care;
		If somebody dashing—
		Should snub you in passing,
	Don't wilt neath their insolent stare.
Some, lacking more wisdom than style,
By dress, count your class and degree;
		Shall we ape their condition,
		To win recognition?
	What matters their notice to me?

For thanks be to Providence! surely.
	We've friends, who are sterling as steel.
		Who ask not our station,
		Our income, or nation—
	Caring less for our looks than our weal;
While such are vouchsafed us we will not—
	We cannot disconsolate be;
		Whilst for friends we are grateful,
		Folks haughty and hateful—
	Matter little or nothing to me.

Oh! what should they matter indeed;
	[-] our hands and our hearts are but clean,
		There's One high above us,
		Will own us, and love us—
	Though lowly our pathway has been.
And so,'when my body shall rest,
	In peace with the quiet and free,
		If I slumber protected,
		By marble erected
Or no, will it matter to me ?

And yet, I would like that a few
	Should tenderly think o'er my dust,
		Here lies a frail woman,
		Like all the world human,
	Who was honest, and true to her trust.
In place of a monument grand—
	Plant near me a flower or tree;
		So friendship undying,
		May mark where I'm lying,
	But I doubt if 'twill matter to me.

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, Sept, 24th, 1882.


[Column 1]
THE TEST CASE.

CHIEF JUSTICE HUNTER'S DECISION.

THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE ACT VALID IN EVERY
PARTICULAR.

	At 2 o'clock, September 14, a decision was
rendered in the Third District Court, in the
case brought to test the validity of the Utah
Statute conferring upon women the elective
franchise. The attorneys on both sides were in

[Column 2]
Court, and a large number of persons interested
in the case were present.
	Following, in full, is the

OPINION OF CHIEF JUSTICE HUNTER.

	In the matter of the application of Florence
Westcott, for the writ of mandamus, directed
to William Showell, deputy registrar of voters
of the First Precinct of Salt Lake City, County
of Salt Lake and Territory of Utah.
	The applicant, Florence L. Westcott, asks
for the writ of mandamus, and presents her
affidavit, in which she sets forth, that she is a
female citizen of the United States, native
born, and over twenty-one years of age; that
she is the wife of Edward Westcott, who is a
native born citizen of the United States, that
she is a resident of the First Precinct of Salt
Lake City, Salt Lake County and Territory of
Utah; that she has resided over two years in
said county, and more than six months last
past in said First Precinct; that on the 11th
day of September, A. D., 1882, pursuant to the
notice of William Showell, the deputy registrar
of voters in and for said First Precinct, duly
commissioned, qualified and acting as such reg-
istration officer in and for said precinct, and
then and there before him she offered to register
as a voter according to law, and offered to take
the oath prescribed by the statute of Utah
applicable to women or female voters, and also
the oath prescribed by the Commissioners of
Election for the Territory of Utah: and offered
to prove that she possessed all the qualifications
required by the act conferring upon woman
the elective franchise passed by the Gover-
nor and Legislative Assembly of the Territory
of Utah, approved February 12th, 1870; and
that she was not disqualified by reason of any-
thing in the acts of Congress referring to elec-
tions and electors in this Territory passed and
approved March 22, 1882. She further in
said affidavit states that she possessed all the
qualifications required under the Territorial
act aforesaid; and that she did no act or acts
contrary to the provisions of said constitutional
act or any act of Congress; that she did at the
time and place aforesaid demand of and from
the said William Showell that the oath be ad-
ministered to her and said proofs taken, and
that said registration officer should enter her
name on the list of persons qualified to vote at
elections in said precinct.
	That said William Showell as such deputy
and registration officer, then and there refused
to administer said oath and refused to receive
said proof, and refused to register her name as
a voter on the ground, as he alleged, that there
is no valid authority authorizing women to
vote, and that there is no authority for the reg-
istering of women as voters in this Territory.
	She further swears that by said action of
said registration officer she will be deprived of
the right to vote conferred upon her by the
statutes of Utah, unless the said registration
officer be compelled by the Court to administer
said oath and take said proofs.
	Upon the filing of this affiavit in the clerk's
office an alternative writ of mandamus was
issued in the usual form, and the case set down
to be heard on the 14th day of September, A.
D., 1882, at one o'clock p.m. At which time
the case was called for argument, Sutherland
and McBride appearing as counsel for the re-
spondent, and S. J. Jonasson, Samuel Merritt,

[Column 3]
Arthor Brown and Judge Harkness for the ap
plicant.
	Sutherland and McBride, attorneys for re-
spondent, filed a motion to quash the writ on
the grounds:
	1st. The facts stated in the affidavits and
writ are not sufficient to authorize the writ in
this.
	2d. The said applicant to be registered as a
voter is not and was not on the day mentioned
a lawful voter, because she is and was a woman,
and such person cannot exercise the elective
franchise except by a direct violation of the
laws of the United States.
	The only question submitted to the Court,
and upon which arguments were heard, was as
to the validity or constitutionality of the act
passed by the Governor and Legislative Assem-
bly of the Territory of Utah approved Febru-
ary 12, 1870.
	I do not deem it necessary in this case to en-
ter into the discussion of the questions which
have been so often discussed as to be almost
threadbare, involving the powers of the Con-
gress of the United States over the Territories
of the United States and will assume that as to
all things pertaining to this Territory such
power is supreme. The division of the Terri-
tory of the United States into different parcels,
defining its boundaries and limits, and giving
to each particular parcel (a name, is the usual
mode adopted by Congress in setting up a
district which in common parlance has come
to be known by the distinctive term Territory.
At the time of which setting apart, the Con-
gress of the United States has usually enacted
in the form of statute, a code of laws termed an
Organic Act, which includes in its provisions
the granting of certain powers to the people re-
siding within the prescribed territorial limits.
The powers thus granted are for the purpose
enabling the people residing in the Territory
to form some kind of government for their
government and protection. It is well under-
stood that all such powers, so long as the terri-
torial existence continues, are delegated powers
emanating from the sovereign power, and sub-
ject to be recalled, limited or enlarged. What-
ever power which is thus granted, subject only
to the power of the Congress to recall limit or
enlarge, is supreme; and so far as the internal
regulation of the affairs of a Territory is con-
cerned, confers upon the people within the Ter-
ritory a governmental existence.
	In accordance with this usual custom, the
Congress of the United States, on the 9th of
September, 1850, passed an act to establish a
Territorial government for Utah. Prior to
this enactment no distinctive parcel of the do-
main of the government for Utah. Prior to
this enactment no distinctive parcel of the do-
main of the government was known as the
Territory of Utah. When that enactment was
passed it came into existence. Its boundaries
were established and the form of its government
under the Constitution and laws of the United
States was marked out, and the power of enter-
ing into the business of forming a territorial
government was conferred upon the people
therein.
	The executive power and authority was
vested in a Governor who was to be appointed
by the President of the United States. A Sec-
retary was to be appointed in like manner.
The legislative power and authority was vested
in a Governor and a Legislative Assembly.
	Section four of this Organic Act provided
the way and means of electing the members of


[Column 1]
the Legislative Assembly. By this section it
is provided that previous to the first election,
the Governor should cause a census or enum-
eration of the inhabitants of the several coun-
ties and districts of the Territory to be taken,
and the first election should be held at such
time and places, and be conducted in such
manner as the Governor should appoint and
direct.	*	*	*	And the persons thus elected
to the Legislative Assembly should meet at
such place and on such day as the Governor
should appoint: but thereafter, the time and
place and manner of holding and conducting
all elections by the people	*	*	*	*
should be prescribed by law enacted by the
Territorial Legislature. The means there be-
ing provided, for holding a first election, Con-
gress, by Section 5 of the Organic Act, pro-
vided who should be entitled to vote at that
election, and enacted "that every free, white
male inhabitant above the age of twenty-one
years, who shall have been a resident of said
Territory at the time of the passage of this act
(September 9,1850) shall be entitled to vote
at the first election."
	By this provision then, at this first election,
any inhabitant, and this whether he be a citizen
of the United States or not, being a free, white
male above the age of twenty-one years, who
shall have been a resident in the Territory,
September 9, 1850, was a voter. So far as
that election was concerned the qualifications
of one to be a voter thereat were two in num-
ber, viz:
	First—A free, white, male inhabitant, above
the age of twenty-one years.
	Second—He must have been a resident of
the Territory at the time-of the passage of the
Organic Act, September 9th, 1850.
	Persons having these prerequisite qualifica-
tions became voters, and by their votes elected
a Legislative Assembly, and that Legislative
Assembly was the one which by the provisions
of section 4 of the Organic Act was to meet at
such place and on such day as the Governor
should appoint. When it was so elected, and
did so meet, then it had the power to prescribe
by law the time, place and manner of holding
and conducting all elections by the people.
Section 5 of the Organic Act provides, after
fixing the qualifications of the voters at said
first election, "that the qualifications of voters
*	*	*	at all subsequent elections shall be
such as shall be prescribed by the Legislative
Assembly, Provided, that the right of suffrage
and of holding office shall be exercised only by
citizens of the United States including those
recognized as citizens by the treaty with the
Republic of Mexico concluded February 2nd,
1848."
	The function of the voter who was to vote at
the first election having been fully performed
when he voted at that election, he thereafter
ceased to be a voter at any subsequent election,
and could only be qualified as a voter when
he showed himself possessed of the prerequi-
sites required by the Legislative Assembly.
	Subsequent to the enactment of the Organic
Act above referred to and in 1874, the Con-
gress of the United States enacted sections 1859
and 1860. Until the enactment of these two
sections the Organic Act of Utah remained in
force and the qualifications of voters at all
elections after the first election were as pre-
scribed by the Legislative Assembly of that
Territory.
	Section 1859, having relation only to the
qualifications of electors at the time of the first
election held on the organization of a Territory
can have no bearing so far as Utah is con-
cerned, for at the date of its enactment Utah
had had her first election, and was an organ-
ized Territory.
	Sec. 1860 is as follows:
	"At all subsequent elections, however, in

[Column 2]
any Territory hereafter organized by Congress,
as well as at all elections in Territories already
organized, the qualifications of voters	*	*	*
shall be such as may be prescribed by the Leg-
islative Assembly of each Territory, subject
nevertheless to the following restrictions on the
power of the Legislative Assembly namely:
	"First. The right of suffrage and of hold-
ing office shall be exercised only by citizens of
the United States above the age of twenty-one
years, and by those above that age who have
declared on oath before a competent court of
record, their intention to become such, and
have taken an oath to support the Constitution
of the United States."
	The effect of this section is plain, and limits
the Legislative Assemblies of all the Territories
in the power to confer the elective franchise,
to persons who are citizens of the United States
above the age of twenty-one years, and to per-
sons who, not being native born or naturalized
citizens, are above the ago of twenty-one years,
who have declared on oath before a competent
court of record their intention to become citi-
zens and have taken an oath to support the
Constitution of the United States. It is thus
made clear that the power to confer the elec-
tive franchise is conferred by the sovereign
power upon the Legislative Assembly of this
Territory, limited in its exercise as provided
by the first restrictive clause of section 1860,
Revised Statutes. This section became the
law in 1874, and since then has been in opera-
tion.
	Section 5 of the Organic Act provided that
at the first election the voter should be a male
citizen above the age of 21 years. Sec. 3 of
the act of the Utah Legislative Assembly ap-
proved January 21, 1859, provided that a
voter must be a male citizen of the United
States.
	The first two, as we have seen, only fixes the
qualifications for a voter at the first election.
	It nowhere appears in all the legislation had
upon the subject that Congress, except in fix-
ing the qualifications of a voter at the time of
the organization of a Territory, has limited or
attempted to limit the power of the Legislative
Assemblies of the Territories to the male quali-
fication. Pursuing the grant of a power to con-
fer the right of suffrage as given by Sec. 1860,
it has been undoubtedly left to the Legislative
Assemblies of the Territories to say if or not
they will confer upon males and females, or up-
on either, the right of suffrage.
	The Utah Legislative Assembly, by the Act
of January 21, 1859, conferred the right of
suffrage only upon the male citizen of the Un-
ited States over twenty-one years of age who
had been a constant resident in the Territory
during the six months next preceding an elec-
tion and who was a taxpayer.
	With the ample power conferred by Con-
gress upon the Legislative Assemblies of the
Territories in determining the qualification of
voters, it is certain it was within the power of
the Utah Legislature to enact the law of Jan-
uary, 1859. I think it may clearly be assumed
that so far as the qualifications of an elector
are concerned, it was the intention of Congress,
subject to the restrictions of Sec. 1860, to leave
the Territories as free as are the independent
States.
	By the Act of January, 21, 1859, a class of
voters was made, and their qualifications were
determined. When the Act was passed, the
Legislature without doubt intended to confine
the right of suffrage to males, and as long as
that Act continued to be the law of the Terri-
tory, only males could vote. But the Utah
Legislature passed an "Act entitled an act con-
ferring upon women the elective franchise,"
which was approved Feburary 12,1870, which
is as follows:

	"That every woman of the age of 21 years

[Column 3]
who has resided in this Territory sex months
next preceding any general or special election,
born or naturalized in the United States; or who
is the wife, or widow or daughter of a native
born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this
Territory."
	This Act, if standing by itself, and if there
was no doubt of power on the part of the Leg-
islative Assembly to confer the right of suf-
frage would confer upon the class of persons
named in it that right. It is undoubtedly true
that a woman of the age of 21 years, who is
native born, or who has been naturalized, is a
citizen of the United States, and it is further
undoubtedly true that a wife or widow of a
naturalized citizen is a citizen of the United
States. And it is further true that a daughter
of a native born citizen of the United States is
a citizen, and that the daughter of a naturalized
citizen, is a citizen of the United States, if at
the time of the naturalization of her parents,
she was under the age of twenty-one years. To
entitle a woman to vote under this law she
would have to be of the age of twenty-one years,
and have been a resident of this Territory six
months next preceding any general or special
election. And this whether she be a single
woman, married woman, widow or daughter.
	The conflict between the contending parties
in this case, arises because of the difference of
opinion upon these two Acts of the Utah Legis-
lature. The Respondent claiming that the Act
conferring the right of suffrage upon women is
unconstitutional, and because it does not impose
upon woman the duty of proving that she is a
citizen, or that she is a tax-payer, thus making,
as is claimed, a more favored class of voters.
I do not think such is a legal construction of
the act. The Legislature was dealing with the
subject of suffrage—who should be voters. It
had already legislated upon that subject, and
had restricted the class of voters to males. Its
intention was no doubt to make another class,
to take from the males who had under the act
of 1859 the exclusive privilege, and confer a
like privilege upon females. The two laws
must be construed together. If they can be
both made to harmonize, it is plainly the duty
of the Court to sustain them both. Courts are
called upon to construe, not to make laws, and
when the Legislature gravely enacts a law, if
that law is attacked the Courts must, with an
equal degree of gravity, scrutinize it in all its
phases, and should be careful not to declare it
unconstitutional, unless it is plainly so. In my
opinion these two laws taken in conjunction
with the defined powers conferred by Congress
can be made to stand together. The act of
1859 is full and complete, it has no constitu-
tional defects, and that of 1870 can be and
should be treated as only an enlargement of
the privileges to the citizens of the Territory.
Whilst there may be want of uniformity in the
two acts, there is no deprivation of any right.
The male voter still retains his old rights.
There is no abridging of his privileges. An-
other class of citizens are brought forward by
the act of 1870 and constituted voters. Each
exercises in the same way the right of suffrage,
and each are made voters by the respective
laws.
	The motion to quash the right is denied, and
the respondent is ordered to enter the name of
the applicant on the list.
	There are, as I understand, other cases, in-
volving the same question presented in this
one, and as it was agreed in the argument that
this should be a test case, the proper orders
in these cases will be made conformably to this
holding.
	Exceptions noted by the respondents.


66 ﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


INDIANA has 2352 women engaged in farm-
ing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 67


SARAH.

I'm glad I know thee, gentle, faithful one,
	And that I felt thy spirit blend with mine,
As kindred rivulets together run,
	Or sister branches 'round each other twine.

Thy memory shall remain with me, dear girl,
	Forever cherished, sacred and secure,
Like the soft lustre of a royal pearl,
	For thou wert good and innocent and pure.

And thou art gone unto the dearest place
	I know, or think, or hear of, anywhere;
Closing my eyes I often seem to trace
	The outlines of our many loved ones there.

Eliza! Oh how joyfully you met
	That bright young sister, eager first to greet!
My baby girls! say have you seen them yet?
	My precious lambs, so loving and so sweet!

I almost hear you tenderly respond,
	And listen breathlessly, but ah, 'tis gone!
I'm here, you're in the "beautiful beyond,"
	The veil is thin, but yet, not quite withdrawn.

										LULA.


[Column 1]
MRS. SCOTT SPEAKS AGAIN.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	I hope that you, and the many kind friends
who have replied to my letters, will not think
less of me if I own to a physical defect—I am
very nearsighted—have very defective eyes
which many of my friends consider a great
affliction; but it does not trouble me greatly,
as I see a great deal any way; but sometimes it
annoys me, especially of an evening, when 'tis
muddy, as I step on what I suppose is a stepping
stone and put my foot over shoe-top into mud
or water. I have been laughed at and annoyed
often by such happenings.
	Now perhaps I am religiously a bit near-
sighted too, for just such things happen to me
in groping my way along the religious path.
	When twelve years of age I "believed and
was baptized," believed because my parents and
relatives did, and was baptized for the same
reason. I never believed really: was conceived
in faith, brought forth in repentance, and raised
on baptism. Was reared as strictly in the
church as Paul was a Pharisee; and got along
finely while too young to walk alone, reli-
giously, but as I grew older my defective reli-
gious eyesight began to cause me to step on im-
aginary stones, and I am continually getting
into the mud.
	Now, Mormonism appeared to me to be a
safe stepping stone—I was not quite sure, so
stepped cautiously—put my foot down very
carefully. Am I in the mud, likely to get my
death of cold by wet feet?
	Mary Ann Pratt said in her last kind letter:
"Perhaps you might believe in the book called
'The Book of Mormon' if you should read its
contents." I have read considerably in the
Book of Mormon, but could not understand it.
But I thought "Well, I'll read 'The Book of
Mormon' again." Not with prejudice, but
with a sincere desire to learn, so took it down
from the book-case, and read till I came to
chapter second of "Jacob," page 118, then
closed the book saying: "Pshaw! mud again up
to my ankles."
	The passages of Scripture the lady recited
and referred to, are as familiar to my mind as
the alphabet. If she has ever listened to Camp-
ellite preaching she will believe me, for those
scriptures are part of their very forcible argu-
ments, and to them mean, "Go ye into all the
world and preach the gospel (as Alexander
Campbell preached it) to every creature."
"Though we, or an angel from heaven preach
'Mormonism' or any other doctrine (than
Alexander Campbell preaches) let him be
accursed."
	The Methodists, the Baptists, and all the

[Column 2]
others use the same arguments. Now where
am I to find a solid stone to step upon?
	Mary F. says: "I wish you could believe as
we do for you would certainly be happier." I
am happy too, full of fun and happiness, my
religious friends think, but this question of re-
ligion demands my attention and perplexes me
until I am worried. Mary F. further says: "It
does not affect us to see the wicked prosper as
it does you, for we know that their reign is
short, that God will come out of his hiding
place and vex the wicked with a sore vexa-
tion."
	So there I'm in the mud again, for that
"vexing the wicked" is what makes me bitter
and unhappy; for religiously "the wicked" in-
cludes all who differ from the Church.
	I find no comfort or joy in the thought of
vexing others with a sore vexation. Why not
prevent the wickedness? I should, had I the
power. It provokes me to see the wickedness
prosper. In our old copy books we used to
have: "Be virtuous and you will be happy."
"Honesty is the best policy," etc. Now I
should have them read: "Be happy and you
will be virtuous." "Policy is the best honesty."
Happiness is the soul, the quintessence of my
religion. Let no future punishment, no vexa-
tion come into it. I expect to go to heaven
"on flowery beds of ease," religiously speaking.
	When a storm comes up and wind, thunder
and lightning are scaring most children, mine
say: "We're not afraid, Ma is here." That is
the religious faith I want. Where shall I find
it? The songs of the birds give me exquisite
joy, fill my soul with loving pleasure; but I
would not have a pet bird in a cage—have its
cage to clean, and the care and worry every
time I went from home, fearing I had forgotten
to give sufficient food and drink.
	Neither do I want a pet religion. It is
neither useful nor ornamental. Religion
should like the forest song-birds make us look
up, fill our souls, hearts and lives with melody,
thankfulness and love. My heart goes out to
you Mormon women with love. I do not know
whether I could believe just us you do on many
points, and if you make a point of the differ-
ence, I shall have to do as I do with the church-
es here, keep still, and wonder if I am so
much in the wrong, and why my faith will not
cling to the texts to which they fasten their
hopes of future happiness.
	Mary F. says again: "We do not feel as those
who are not of our faith, because we know if
our children are faithful to the laws laid down
in this Church for the guidance of the Saints,
they will be saved from the sins and corrup-
tions of the outside world."
	Yes, if: If my children regulate their lives by
the New Testament, and the statutes of Ohio,
they will be saved from sin and corruption too,
but will they so regulate their lives, or will they
be wicked and be vexed with a sore vexation?
	Hoping the ladies of whom I have spoken
will take my words kindly, as they are meant,
and will write to me again, through the EXPON-
ENET—be a Phillip to the seeking, earnest
eunuch and explain unto me the doctrines of
the "peculiar people" the Mormons. I remain
with kindest regards to all,
							EMILY SCOTT.


ADVICE TO MRS. SCOTT.

	[Answer to letter in No. 16 of the Woman's
Exponent headed, "Some Facts."]

	To be good is to be happy. Is there any
thing in Mormonism that is not good ? Positive
good, comparative better, superlative best. I
think the best thing for you, is to embrace the
first principles of the Gospel, by being baptized,
by one having authority, and then you will
know for yourself the gifts and blessings do


follow all believers. It is very natural fo
mortals to feel after happiness. When I readr
the Bible and all good books, I find the Lord
in a very peculiar manner bestow great bless-
ings, upon men and women who lived in plural
marriage; we will notice Sarah, who told Abra-
ham to enter into that order, and after she was
very old the Lord told her that in her seed all
the nations of the earth should be blessed, then
we find her grandson with four wives, and they
had twelve sons; John the Revelator, sees the
city the New Jerusalem with twelve gates, and
their names were written thereon, and if you
read in Volume 7 of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, you
will find strong testimony of the happiness of
women living in plurality, and if you were well
acquainted with that paper you would find that
Mormon women went to President Hayes, in
the name of all the Mormon women of Utah,
that they might not be disturbed in their mar-
riage relations.
	My heart is full of joy and gratitude to my
Heavenly Father for the privilege of spending
the last twelve years of my life in that holy
order of marriage.		JANE COWAN.


A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.

MARY ISABELLA HORNE.

Continued.

	In December 1877, another honor was con-
ferred upon Mrs. Horne. She was chosen to
preside over the Relief Society in this Stake of
Zion. "Sister Eliza" proposed her name, and
the matter was referred to the presiding auth-
orities of the Church, and also to Pres. A. M.
Cannon of this Stake. At a special meeting
Mrs. Horne was unanimously sustained to pre-
side in that capacity. She chose for her Coun-
selors, Elmina S. Taylor and Sarepta M. Hey-
wood; since that time her Second Counselor
has died, and Helen Mar Whitney was selected
to fill, the position.
	She has labored faithfully among the Relief.
Societies in this Stake, as well as in other parts
of the Territory. Her name is held in high
esteem as a mother in Israel.
	At a Primary meeting in July 1878, Mrs.
Horne was chosen as one of the delegates to the
County Convention, from the precinct in which
she resides. This was a new movement in
politics, as previous to this, although women
had voted eight years, none had ever been
called upon to work practically in this direc-
tion. At the convention following, Mrs
Horne was appointed on the committee for
nomination, and she performed her duties as
efficiently as any of the gentlemen of the com-
mittee. After the nominations had been sus-
tained, it was proposed by one of the ladies
present that some ladies be added to the Cen-
tral Committee. A vote was taken the propos-
ition accepted, and three ladies were added to
the committee. Mrs. Horne was one of the
three. Thus step by step, she has advanced
in the progressive movements that have been
made, and still maintained womanly dignity.
Since that time she has frequently acted in
political matters, and shown herself quite equal
to the occasion. Her duties at home as a wife
and mother are not few, but she is so method-
ical and orderly as to economize time as well as
means. She has always been a fine needlewo-
man, and fond of embroidery and fancy work,
and by saving all the odd moments in doing
dainty little things of this sort, she has made
her home ornaments and her house is filled
with the work of her own hands. Her
daughters follow in the mother’s footsteps, and
those who are married seem as practical and
orderly as need be for domestic happiness, and
well-being of the family and home.


68	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $[-].00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher Woman's EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	OCTOBER 1, 1882.


[Column 1]
GOING TO THE CONVENTION.

	Saturday morning, up with the lark, hur-
ried preparations for starting, bade good bye
for a week or so to home and loved ones,
and took the early morning train for
Ogden, chatting pleasantly all the way with
old acquaintances. The day was a glorious
one, and every thing fresh in the morning sun.
At Ogden, we went on board the Union Pacific
train, new car, KEARNEY, very elegant, parlor,
dining-room and bed-rooms all combined. Here
we found ourselves in the company of some
strangers, who had a great curiosity about Mor-
mons, and anxious to see a man with more
wives; one very sweet young girl, with a pretty
face and golden curls, longed to see a man with
two wives, another wanted to see one with eight
or ten wives. The scenery, however, was much
more attractive than the chatter and gossip
about "our people," and gazing out upon the
hills and fields one found abundant food for re-
flection.
	The mountains were even more beautiful now
than when robed in the bright, green, robe of
summer; the tints were growing mellower and
the landscape more picturesque. Beautiful
mountain vales, and shady nooks near limpid
streams where soft willows drooped fringing the
water’s edge so gracefully. The little brown
birds flitted in and out, and chirped merrily
in the sunshine, bending the long branches
down to the water's surface. High mountains
towered loftily towards the blue sky, and afar
in the distance the while caps glistened in the
sunlight. Here and there great tufts of velvety
locking low bushes contrasted with the barren
rocky cliffs, where occasionally a straight pine
tree rose apparently from out the solid rock;
and with the gorgeously tinted shrubbery, made
a picture so charming that one might well
wonder if this were the land of sage-brush, sun-
flowers and cat-tails. The scenery was diversi-
fied, making a pleasing contrast to the traveler
if seeking rest from business and bustle. The
immense rugged and rough heights of red rock
stood like giant mansions, old fortifications, or
the ruined castles of a departed race. Irregular
and fantastical, yes even wierd enough to satisiy
the most imaginative fancy that in some of
these quaint old crags and cliffs, robbers might
have had their strongholds, and could the
mountains speak, what wonderful legends might
be unfolded. But passing from the unreal to
the positive, here were the Rocky Mountains,
sublime in their grandeur. Below were the
habitations of men in every available nook and
corner, and groan fields of lucerne, wheat just
stacked, and sometimes a "meadow sweet with
hay" new mown and fragrant. And further on
away from the haunts of men, and where the
brooks lay in the low grass at the foot of the
mountains, ornamented, shapely elderberry trees
were clustered together, the luscious fruit purply

[Column 2]
blue lay in flat rich heavy bunches, on the grace-
ful, drooping boughs.
	Carried away mentally with the charms of
mountain scenery, one could not help forgetting,
for the time being, the errand upon which we
were going, and the importance attached to the
special question about to be discussed on the
public platform. The blue hills stretching away
In the distance were gently bathing in the pur-
ple haze, and the gray shadows were gathering
as the sunset faded in the West. One could
never tire of such natural beauties though it was
easy to be dreamy and pensive.
	On Sunday morning, between Rawlins and
Laramie, as we were steaming along, we saw a
small herd of antelopes not more than a half a
mile away, it was quite a sight as those pretty
creatures are now very seldom seen so near the
railroad track. At Laramie we got off to get a
cup of tea. It was easy to see it was Sunday, for
the people were in their Sunday attire. Little
children with their Sunday School books just
starting towards the meeting house. As we
traveled farther East on the road, the country
grew flatter and less to see—the mountains were
still blue in the immense distance, and a few still
wore their snowy caps. As we neared Cheyenne
we came to Dale Creek bridge, quite a curiosity;
every body went out to look, even Mr. Jennings.
It is very slenderly built, though It may be just
as strong as is necessary. The rocks on both
sides, as we passed down through the ravine,
were very handsome and in the morning sun
they looked like the coarse rough specimens of
amethyst. The snow sheds are a great nuisance
when one Is writing, for you no sooner get
started than darkness blinds you.
	At Sherman there was a curiosity shop or sort
of museum, specimens of various kinds, but we
no sooner arrived at the door than the conductor
shouted "all aboard," and we were obliged to
turn back. There Is a monument erected there,
and inscribed "To Oliver and Oakes Ames." It
is 60 feet high, square in form and tapers up
from the base, until the top is small; it is built
to stand for ages, and is perfectly solid, cost a for-
tune to erect it; no doubt those who built it had
the pyramids of Egypt In mind, yet we have
not been informed that there is any historic
chronology contained therein. Shortly after
leaving Sherman we came to a grove of cedars,
very beautiful in this desert waste. A perfect
picture in the sunlight, and made one feel as if
they were not quite outside vegetation.
	Perhaps this is enough, for once, of the jour-
ney to the Convention, and next time we shall
be able to tell what happened there, who we saw
and what transpired. Which will be far more
interesting to most of our readers than the
description here given of the Union Pacific
road.


THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE LAW.

	In this number of the EXPONENT it will be seen
that the law of this Territory, giving to women
the right of suffrage has been fully sustained
from the charges made against it by political trick
sters, and discord creators, who have an exist-
ence and are kept before the public only by their
continual harangues and false and vehement
assertions. Both Judges Hunter and Emerson,
sustained the law in every particular, and in the
strongest language at their command, main-
tained the right of the Territorial Legislature to
pass the act which it was attempted to over-
throw, in the interest of a meager and unscru-
pulous minority. Judge Twiss also asserted the
validity of the law, but held that women must
be taxpayers before they could vote. In view,
however, of the rulings of the two Judges first
mentioned, it is most probable that this portion


of Judge Twiss' decision will be ruled against by
the Supreme Court, and that the right of wo-
men to vote under the existing law will remain
undisturbed. The result is no more than was
anticipated, but it is gratifying to know that
we have men on the bench who are not afraid to
breast the waves of wild and unreasoning
clamors of a party frantic for power to which
they are in no way entitled.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	NEW COMPENDIUM—We are enabled to state
that a work entitled “A Compendium of the
Doctrines of the Gospel," compiled by Apostle
Franklin D. Richards and Elder James A. Little,
is from the press, and is now for sale.

	ON Friday next the General Semi-Annual
Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints will commence. In view of
the early harvest and generally favorable
weather, it is believed the attendance will be
unusually large. The interest of the present
times will also be an important factor in draw-
ing together large numbers of the Saints, to be
advised by the authorities.

	ON Monday, Oct. 9th, the Territorial Conven-
tion, for the nomination of a Delegate to Con-
gress, will be held. All the county conventions
have been held and all delegates chosen, and
there is little doubt but a man well qualified to
represent the best interests of the people will be
chosen. Quite a number ot prominent gentle-
men are mentioned in connection with the posi-
tion, any one of whom would be satisfactory to
the people.

	THE National Woman’s Suffrage Convention
met at Omaha on Tuesday, Sept. 26, with a large
delegation of the leading suffrage ladies from
all parts of the United States. Utah was repre-
sented by Sister Emmeline B. Wells, editor of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and by Sister Zina
D. Young. Neither of the ladies has yet re-
turned, but are expected back in a day or two.
In the next number of the EXPONENT, a de-
tailed account of the proceedings will be given.

	THE season now drawing to a close seems to
have been a very happy one for these who fol-
low the foundation industry—farming. Every-
where the reports are of abundant and excellent
harvests, second only to those of the preceding
year, which was perhaps without a parallel in
the history of the Territory. Large and excellent
crops make the heart of the farmer glad, and
send a ray of cheerfulness unconsciously
through the hearts of the whole community; for
what is bleaker and more dismal than a poor
and unsatifactory harvest?

	THE Governor has made a large number of ap-
pointments to various offices in the Territory,
under the authority which he assumes to have
derived from Congress. In Salt Lake County,
nearly all the parties have applied for their
offices but the applications have without excep-
tion been denied. On Wednesday two individ-
uals applied to the courts to force the present
occupants to give up their offices, and the case
will be argued before Judge Hunter on the 10th
of October. The parties are Arthur Pratt, who
wants to be made Sheriff of Salt Lake County,
and one George C. Douglass, who aspires to be
Territorial Auditor. The ablest lawyers have
been secured to defend the rights of the people as
against the pretended rights of these official as-
pirants; and the result is looked forward to with
confidence.

	ON Saturday, Sept. 30th, the County Conven-
tion of the People’s Party of Salt Lake County
was held In the County Court House. There
was a full attendance of delegates, among them


several ladies. The proceedings were com-
menced in the usual manner, and G. M. Ottin-
ger made temporary chairman, and Francis
Cope temporary secretary, who, after the organ-
ization, were made permanent officers. A com-
mittee on credentials consumed some time in
examining the certificates of delegates, during
which time C. W. Penrose, Esq., made a stir-
ring speech. A committee of seven was ap-
pointed to make nominations for delegates to the
Territorial Convention, which meets on Mon-
day, the 9th inst. The committee nominated
sixteen delegates and they were acted on sep-
arately, and all the nominees were sustained by
the convention.
	ELSEWHERE will be found an advertisement
of Dr. Pratt’s, stating that she will resume her
class in obstetrics about the 15th of October.
She states that during the course, lectures will
be given by Drs. Anderson, Benedict and other
prominent and experienced physicians. This is
an opportunity which we would urge all inter-
ested in such matters to avail themselves of. It
is gaining in an easy manner that which Mrs.
Pratt spent great labor and expense in at-
taining. Her large practice is steadily increas-
ing, and the cognizance and assistance of the
leading local physicians are guarantee sufficient
to entice anyone to grasp Mrs. Pratt’s generous
offer. May she have a large and studious class
to reward her for her pains.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RECIPES.

	GREEN TOMATOES PICKLED: 4 quarts of tom-
atoes sliced, 4 oz. salt, 1 tablespoonful of allspice,
3 of cloves, 2 of pepper, 4 of black mustard seed-
3 onions sliced. Put about half the salt into a
kettle with some vinegar. Put the sliced toma-
toes and onions into this and let them boil a few
minutes, skim them out, and let them drain.
Then put them into a jar with remainder of salt
and spices, and cover them with scalding vine-
gar; horseradish root improves them, making
them crisp.
	GREEN TOMATOES PICKLED SWEET: 2 gal. of
tomatoes sliced, 2 qts vinegar, same of sugar, 2
table spoonfuls of salt, 2 of pepper, 1 of allspice, 1
of cloves. Method: Put enough water in a
kettle with a teacup of vinegar, to cover the
tomatoes. Let them scald, then put in a jar,
then take spices and vinegar and let them come
to a boil, and pour over tomatoes. Horseradish
root placed on top of a jar of pickles makes them
crisp. All tried and good recipes.
	SWEET PICKLE PEACHES: 8 lbs of fruit, 4 lbs.
of sugar, 1 pt. of cider vinegar, 1 oz. each of
cloves, allspice, cinnamon. Method, make syrup
with vinegar, sugar and spices, except cloves
which you stick in the peaches, two to each
peach. Put in the fruit and boil till easily pricked
with a straw, take the fruit out, and boil the
syrup 20 minutes longer, then pour it over the
fruit, boil up the syrup three mornings, pour over
fruit and then seal up.
	APPLE JAM: 10 lbs. sugar, 10 lbs. good sour
apples; chopped fine. The grated peel of three
lemons, and a few pieces of white ginger root.
Boil till apples look clear and tender.


[Column 1]

﻿LONGFELLOW IN WESTMINSTER.

	To an American and to those who, though not
native-born, have so long been associated with
the institutions of the United States, as to view
them with patriotic feelings, it is pleasant to
note the efforts now making in the mother
country, to have a bust of Longfellow placed in
Westminster Abbey. As might naturally have
been anticipated, the movement, at its incipien-
cy, met with general though unreasonable oppo-
sition. It was urged that to place a monument

[Column 2]

of an American in a place reverently sacred to
the heroes of grand old England, would be to
sweep away a time-honored custom—a custom
which from its very age, had grown to be looked
upon as inviolate. Westminster Abbey is, if we
may be allowed the expression, viewed as a post
mortem museum of noted Britons. However,
good sense is a characteristic of the English, and
where intelligence and genius are considered,
the British are singularly free from those race
prejudices which seem inherent in people of
whatever nationality. So, after a little delibera-
tion, two or three noted Englishmen endorsed
the proposition, and added the weight of their
approval to the agitation. Nearly all the great
minds of England have favored the movement,
until at present there remains scarcely a doubt
that a bust of Longfellow will be placed along
with those of the kings in fact, and the emper-
ors in thought, in the "tight little isle."
	It is gratifying, as before stated, to think that
there should be a breadth of thought and a
democracy of sentiment among the English as
to tolerate such an invasion of ancient customs;
and it is singularly indicative of the friendly
feeling that is growing up between the mother
country and her brilliant offspring. But more
than all, it is pleasing to note the intellectual
development of an age, which recognizes genius
as belonging to no nationality, but as the pro-
duct of a grand old world, which if created for
any purpose at all, was brought into existence
for the good of all, of whatever nationality,
whatever sex, of whatever color.
	If the Supreme Father sees fit to endow one
person with a far reaching breadth of intellect,
such as will make him pre-eminent among men,
can it be supposed this intellect was intended
for the benefit and the glory of one nation only? or
is it designed for the honor of mankind every-
where? It is natural, and may be due to a wise
provision in nature, that one should point with
pride to the great men his native land has pro-
duced, but he is indeed contracted who would
refuse the meed of praise to acknowledged worth
for the base reason that he belonged to a race
which was individually or generally dispised.
In the onward march of events, the world will
outgrow all these detestable prejudices, and the
admission of a bust of Longfellow into the sainted
precincts of Westminster Abbey must prove a
veritable iconoclast of modern times in the de-
molition of race gods. It points the way to a
cosmopolitan sentiment, leading men to the
idea that they are more like citizens of a glori-
ous world than of any particular nation. Of all
Americans, it is most fitting that this honor
should be paid to Longfellow; not that it can
in anyway effect either him or his fame, but
that all who have felt the sweet influence of his
writings will delight in seeing accorded to him
that which is generally esteemed an undying
honor. Himself as free from prejudice as a
child, with a spirit of a gentleness, and a
heart of love like an angel's, it is indeed fitting
that his name and his fame should be an instru-
ment in destroying the barriers of a race preju-
dice that have so long denied to genius and to
sterling worth admission to universal apprecia-
tion and acknowledged merit. And when his
monument shall have been placed amid the
shades of greatness and grandeur and godlike
nobility of England, it will rather add to than
derive from the sanctity of its surroundings. It
will shed the same sweet influence over the
memory of the great dead with whom it is now
associated, as it did over the lives of those who
lived with the poet and as it does now over the
hearts of those who survive.


FALSEHOOD may have its hour, but it has
no future.—Pressense.


OCTOBER.

	How sadly the light wind sighs through the
tall trees, how mellow the sunlight is, and look
what dark shadows are cast upon the old stone
wall. Each little sunbeam seems like a thread
of gold, that weaves itself into a yellow pattern
on each green leaf, whilst here and there we
find one tinged with bronze and red, and some
are piteously hurled upon the ground; how sad
their rustle breaks upon the ear. Can it be that
Autumn is here ? Yes it most be so, for look up-
on the mountains, where a week since it was
green and mossy, now the light frost has com-
menced its work, and the foliage is changed to
the most brilliant red and yellow. The bushes
hang low with their clusters of red and purple
berries. The soft haze that played around the
hills a week ago is gone, and the sky is bright
and clear again. Ah! what a cool breeze that
was, and see how it shook the green boughs of
the trees, breaking the tender stems and thrust-
ing the rosy cheeked apples in heaps upon the
ground. Each one that remains looks longingly
at the bright eyed children that chatter and laugh
under the spreading boughs as if to say, “take
me, sweet cherub, for at the next gust of wind I
shall fall and bruise my tender skin;” but the
children jump and laugh and fill their little
baskets with the poor things that fell the night
before, little heeding the lonely apples that
stand out on the great bare limbs.
	The birds chirp as they flit from bough to
bough, no doubt wondering why the sun is not
so warm, and why the leaves must wither and
fall. Some of the old wise ones are seeking
homes far away, where it is always summer
Alas! how lonely we shall be without these sweet
songsters. The sparrows quarrel with each other
and the little one worry and chirp about the
warmest place in the nest. The flowers were
never prettier or more fragrant, and you can
scarcely step in the garden without treading on
a vine of morning glories; see, they have even
twined themselves around these weeds by the
walk. How beautiful are their pale delicate hues,
and how innocently they lift their sweet faces
up towards heaven. Thump! On the ground
come some more rosy apples. The children will
have busy work in the morning. The night air
is chilly and the children hurry into the house,
to the nice warm supper that is awaiting them.
Then they gather around the old hearth on
which the bright fire burns; each one listens
quietly while grandma tells about her old home,
where there were no high mountains, but woods
and forests with trees so full of large brown nuts.
The great bright eyes open wide as she tells of
how they used to go nut gathering, and little
heads look puzzled as they think of what a strange
place it must be, where there are no grand old
mountains and the little faces smile with glee
when they remember about the large barrel of
hickory nuts that grandma has so kindly pro-
mised them. The fire burns more briskly than
before, and the whole room is aglow with its
red light. All the while outside Jack Frost is
performing his night's work, nipping the fruit
and flowers, and painting each leaf with a hun-
dred different hues.
								BEATRICE.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect on the death of William
Knight, member of the 20th Ward Primary As-
sociation, who departed this life Sept. 1st, 1882,
with heart disease.
	As God in his wisdom has seen fit to call an-
other of his precious jewels, who has labored
faithfully in the performance of every duty, we,
as officers and members of the Primary Associa


tion, unanimously adopt the following resolu-
tions:
	We sincerely condole with his parents, brothers
and sisters, in their heavy bereavement, and we
tender them our heartfelt sympathy.
	May his many virtues be emulated by the
members of our Association, so that his noble ex-
ample may stimulate others to a life of virtue
and usefulness.
	Resolved, that we adopt these resolutions, as
a token of respect, that we present a copy of
these resolutions to his parents, and publish the
same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a
copy on our record.

The angels bore him robed in spotless white,
To their peaceful home of light.
								EMMA TOONE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	DIED: In Brighton Ward, Aug. 12th. 1882, of
cholera infantum, after an illness of many
weeks, Minnie Presinda, the dearly beloved
child of George W. and Agnes Squires Hunting
ton; age one year and ten months, lacking three
days.
	Little Minnie was an unusually bright and
interesting child for her age, also very large;
but from her birth she was always afflicted with
sickness of some kind, so that she was only a
little sufferer during her brief sojourn in this
world of grief and affliction.
	The angels have now taken her home to the
celestial kingdom of our Lord, where there is no
more grief and pain, but all is joy and peace for-
ever.

'Twas not in anguish nor in wrath,
	The Reaper came that day,
Bright angels wished the earth,
	And bore the flower away;
A lovely bud so young and fair,
	Called hence by early doom.
"Just come to show how fair a flower,
	In Paradise would bloom."
									A. C.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

CASTLE DALE, EMERY CO.

	DEAR SISTER:—With great pleasure I com-
municate to your very interesting paper the
following items.
	On the 12th and 13th of August, 1882, we
were visited by two of the Twelve Apostles, E.
Snow and J. H. Smith, who held two days
meeting at this place, during which time they
recommended us to organize a Relief Society
in all the settlements of this Stake.
	The sisters of this Ward met to organize
on the 24th. August 25, elected the following
officers: Annie N. Larsen, President; Hannah
Seely and Harriet A. Willcox, Counselors;
Lucinda Jeffs, Secretary, Ellen Mitler, Treas-
urer. They were blessed and set apart under
the hands of Pres. C. G. Larsen and Counselor,
who also made some excellent remarks, and en-
couraged the sisters to be active to the duties
devolving upon them in their high and holy
calling, as Saints of the Most High. Pres.
Annie N. Larsen gave good instructions, all of
which the sisters feel to appreciate. We held
our first meeting on the seventh of September.
	Praying God to bless you in your labor of
love, I remain, with kindest regards, your sister
in the Gospel,		LUCINDA JEFFS, Sec'y.


The things that belong to men must be un-
derstood, in order that they may be loved.
The things that belong to God must be loved,
in order that they may be understood.—Pascal.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The scenes in Nauvoo during the summer of
1843 were of an exciting nature, and continued
on with but little cessation till the Prophet
and Patriarch were murdered, in a boasted
land of religious liberty, and their people
forced by mob-law to seek safety among sav-
ages.
	I remember the morning that Joseph and
family left the city to visit his sister-in-law
near Dixon, in Lee County, he called in as he
was passing, to bid us good bye, and the first
news that we heard was the unlawful arrest
made by Missourians, intending to drag him off
into that state, but their brutal conduct roused
the indignation of the people at Dixon, and by
a writ of habeas corpus, served by his friends,
he was placed under the arm of the law. The
news spread so rapidly, that a company of
horsemen, numbering 175, started the same
evening under the command of Generals' Wm.
Law and Charles C. Rich. The officers from
Missouri had laid their plans to kidnap Joseph
while on the journey, but his brethren guarded
him too closely, and they arrived home in safety
June 30th, where they were met on the out-
skirts by a great multitude of the Saints, who,
with Wm. Pitts, Brass Band, and loud cheers
and firing of artillery, escorted him to the
mansion.
	A meeting had been previously appointed at
5 o'clock the same day, in the grove west of
the Temple, where he delivered a speech, which
can be duly appreciated at this present time.
	"I meet you with a heart full of gratitude
to Almighty God, and I presume you all feel
the same. I hardly know how to express my
feelings. I feel as strong as a giant. I pulled
sticks with the men coming along, and I pulled
up with one hand the strongest man that could
be found. Then two men tried, but they could
not pull me up. And I continued to pull, men-
tally, until I pulled Missouri to Nauvoo.	*	*
*	It is not so much my object to tell my
afflictions, and trials, and troubles, as to speak
of the writ of habeas corpus, so that the minds
of all may be corrected. It has been asserted
by the great and wise men, lawyers, and others,
that our municipal powers and legal tribunals
are not to be sanctioned by the authorities of
the State; and accordingly they want to make
it lawful to drag away innocent men from their
families and friends, and have them put to
death by ungodly men for their religion. Re-
lative to our city charter, courts, rights of
habeas corpus, etc., I wish you to know and
publish that we have all power; and if any man
from this time forth says anything to the con-
trary, cast it into his teeth.
	"There is a secret in this. If there is not
power in our charter and courts, then there is
not power in the State of Illinois, nor in the
Congress or Constitution of the United States;
for the United States gives unto Illinois her
constitution or charter, and Illinois gave unto
Nauvoo her charter, ceding unto us our vested
rights, which she has no right nor power to
take from us. All the power there was in Il-
linois she gave to Nauvoo. I want you to
hear and learn, O, Israel, this day, what is for
the happiness and peace of this city and people.
If our enemies are determined to oppress us
and deprive us of our constitutional rights and
privileges as they have done, and if the author-
ities that are on the earth will not sustain us
in our rights, nor give us that protection which
the laws and constitution of the United States,
and of this State, guaranteed unto us; then we
will claim them from a higher power—from
heaven—yea, from God Almighty. Before I
will bear this unhallowed persecution any
longer, before I will be dragged away again,
among my enemies for trial, I will spill the last

[Column 2]
drop of blood in my veins. To bear it any
longer would be a sin.
	"It did my soul good to see your feelings
and love manifested towards me. I thank God
that I have the honor to lead so virtuous and
honest a people; to be your leader and lawyer,
as was Moses to the children of Israel. Hosan-
nah to Almighty God, who has delivered us
thus from out of the seven troubles. I com-
mend you to his grace, and may the blessings
of heaven rest upon you, in the name of Jesus
Christ. Amen."
	He was proven to be innocent and was once
more freed from the Missourians; but they
were determined not to give up, and pretended
that the authorities of Nauvoo had rescued a
prisoner from justice, but confident that his
friends would resist every attempt on their
part to arrest him, Gov. Reynolds, of Missouri,
applied to Gov. Ford, of Illinois, requesting
him to compel our people to deliver up the
Prophet, by calling out a force of militia for
this purpose, which request Gov. Ford po-
litely refused to grant.
	Our city was occasionally visited by Laman-
ites and a deputation of Pottawatamie chiefs
were in the city waiting to see Joseph when
he returned from Dixon, and as soon as consist-
ant after the trial was over he received them.
	After being assured that all present were
friends to Joseph, their orator arose and said:
(it being interpreted;) "We as a people have
long been distressed and oppressed. We have
been driven from our lands many times. We
have been wasted away by wars, until there
are but few of us left. The white man has
hated us and shed our blood, until it has ap-
peared as though there would soon be no In-
dian left. We have talked with the Great
Spirit, and the Great Spirit has talked with
us. We have asked the Great Spirit to save
us and let us live, and the Great Spirit has
told us that he has raised up a great Prophet
chief, and friend, who would do us great good
and tell us what to do; and the Great Spirit
has told us that you are the man (pointing to
the Prophet). We have now come a great way
to see you and hear your words, and to have you
tell us what to do. Our horses have become
poor traveling, and we are hungry. We will
now wait and hear your words."
	Joseph was considerably affected, so much
so that he wept. He said in return: "I have
heard your words. They are true! The Great
Spirit has told you the truth. I am your
friend and brother, and I wish to do you good.
Your fathers were once a great people. They
worshiped the Great Spirit. The Great Spirit
did them good. He was their friend, but they
left the Great Spirit and would not hear his
words nor keep them. The Great Spirit left
them, and they began to kill one another, and
they have been poor and afflicted until now.
	"The Great Spirit has given me a book, and
told me that you will soon be blessed again.
The Great Spirit will soon begin to talk with
you and your children."
	Raising the Book of Mormon, he said, "This
is the book which your fathers made. I wrote
upon it. This tells me what you will have to
do. I now want you to begin to pray to the
Great Spirit. I want you to make peace with
one another, and do not kill white men; it is
not good, but ask the Great Spirit for what you
want. And it will not be long before the Great
Spirit will bless you, and you will cultivate
the earth, and build good houses like white
men. We will give you something to eat and
to take home with you."
	The Prophet had an ox killed for them, and
some horses were also prepared for them.
	They remembered the kindness of Joseph
and his people, and when driven from our
homes they made us welcome upon their land,
where we were obliged to make our Winter
Quarters.


﻿We have certainly seen the fulfilment of
the Prophet's words concerning the red man,
cultivating the earth and building houses, as
well as other predictions, and are satisfied that
all will be fulfilled.
	The following is from an address delivered
by the Prophet, at the grove, on Sunday, July
8th, 1844.
	"The Saints can testify whether I am willing
to lay down my life for my brethren. If it has
been demonstrated that I have been willing to
die for a 'Mormon,' I am bold to declare that
before heaven, that I am just as ready to die in
defending the rights of a Presbyterian, a Bap-
tist, or a good man of any other denomination,
for the same principle which would trample
upon the rights of the Roman Catholics, or of
any other denomination that may be unpopular
and too weak to defend itself.
	"It is the love of liberty which inspires my
soul—civil and religious liberty to the whole
of the human race. Love of liberty was dif-
fused into my soul by my grandfathers, while
they dandled me on their knees. One of the
grand fundamental principles of 'Mormonism'
is to receive truth, let it come whence it may.
If I esteem mankind to be in error, shall I
bear them down? No. I will lift them up, and
in their own way too, if I cannot persuade
them my way is better; and I will not seek to
compel any man to believe as I do, only by
the force of reasoning, for truth will cut its
own way."	
	On the following Sabbath he preached, and
I presume that hundreds are still living who
will recollect these incidents.
	He said: "Let me be resurrected with the
Saints, whether I ascend to heaven, or descend
to hell; we will turn the devils out of doors and
make a heaven of it. Where this people are,
there is good society. What do we care where
we are, if the society be good ?"
	At another time he said, "I defy all the
world to destroy the work of God; and I
prophesy they never will have power to kill me
till my work is accomplished, and I am ready
to die. * * * I proclaim in the name of
the Lord God Almighty, that I will fellowship
nothing in the Church but virtue, integrity and
uprightness."
	That same spirit which governed the Pro-
phet and his people then, controls and keeps
them together to-day; and let our enemies con-
tinue to persecute and threaten as they may,
they cannot hinder freedom of thought, nor
prevent our making for ourselves a paradise on
earth, nor from securing our passport to heav-
en; no matter where our lot may be cast, we
can all make one for ourselves, and as Joseph
said, "defy all the world to help it" or "to des-
troy the work of God," or any of his servants
until their "work is accomplished," then they,
like Joseph, will he "ready to die."
	The Missourians, with all their cruelties and
whippings, could not crush out nor subdue that
spirit, nor make a "Mormon" feel that he was
conquered, and this was what made them so
angry.
	Our circumstances, since then, have reversed;
through the goodness of our Heavenly Father
we have gained a foot hold in these mountains,
and can now sit "under our own vine and fig-
tree;" and shall "hold the fort," God helping
us.
	To be Continued.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 71


[Column 1]
A SEPTEMBER WALK.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Come with me my friend, my congenial spirit,
let us take a walk this beautiful calm Septem-
ber day, with the canopy of heaven one eternal
blue bending over us, I cannot see the smallest
cloud. We will climb the hills, or as it is

[Column 2]
called "the Bench," from whence we can over-
look our beautiful city; the scenery is lovely,
in some parts grand. Fine houses and pretty
hills abound in the prospect. Let us take a
seat on Arsenal Hill, my beloved "Ensign
Peak" forming the back of our chair! The
City Hall is right before us, a large substantial
stone building, raised for time and eternity,
and for business and common sense purposes.
The Theatre then presents itself, and is a fine
and complete building. And now the grand
Temple looms up in the midst, and the heart of
every Latter-day Saint yearns for the comple-
tion of that unique mysterious House of God!
upon which rest great and mighty promises to
the true and faithful ones. On the same block
stands the small but elegant Assembly Hall,
with its ornamental turrets clustering round
the principal tower, on the summit of which is
the figure of an angel sounding the Gospel
Trumpet of Latter-day, and also denoting the
the cardinal points. This sacred block is sur-
rounded by a high wall—when the Temple is
finished a handsome iron palisading will enclose
it—with four massive gates of exquisite work-
manship, North, South, East and West. It
will be the largest and most unique Temple in
America; its foundation is laid for eternity,
and the superstructure is upon the same model.
Around, all around are those grand old moun-
tains. Well may we apply the Scriptural term
—"the everlasting Hills"—in their sublime and
eternal silence, clothed in their garments of
purple haze, or the pale green robe, and their
veil of mist, as the atmosphere, or time of day
throw around them. Here let us sit and medi-
tate for a short time. The silence of those
eternal mountains speaks to our spirit ear, and
to our spirit heart, and their voice and lan-
guage is angelic and inspirational, and also com-
forting; it whispers of the great beyond, to
which with noiseless tread, the hand of time
is leading the whole human family; it whispers
of the myriads that have lived, and revelled,
and enjoyed in the palaces of luxury, the gay
denizens of the world "clothed in robes of purple
and fine linen, and faring sumptuously every
day"—some with crowns upon their heads, and
the royal sceptre in their hands, and glitter-
ing with costly gems of the diamond, and the
pearl, the ruby and the emerald, the opal and
the turquoise, every eye watching to gratify
their wishes, even before they are expressed,
every knee ready to do them honors; their
lives so favored that it would seem a portion of
heaven had descended especially to bless these
petted children of humanity. Then reverse the
picture. Take the poor of the earth, who are
ever in the majority, see how they have toiled,
how they have indeed eaten their bread in the
sweat of their brow—from the raising of the
sun to the going down of the same; from their
days of childhood, even to old age, labor has
been their portion. And then the mourning,
the afflicted bearing life's burdens through the
three score years and ten—and perhaps ten
more. Where are all these myriads? Their
place knows them no more. These very
mountains may be the sepulchre of many
such! Yes, I know these mountians are tombs
of many of the human family, and perhaps
some called upon them to cover them and
hoped they would cover them for ever! for
they were wretched, and without hope, and
without faith; think of all the heterogenous
mass of human beings that have lived upon
this earth, and then been buried in its bosom.
Where, where are they? Speak ye grand old
mountains, that have beheld the ages come
and go, tell us the histories of those that are
now become as ye are: the dust of the earth.
The whole globe must be impregnated with
human dust; and that human dust has to be
resurrected. Think of it! fancy we hear that
voice saying, "Lazarus! come forth," and at the
sound of that Almighty voice, earth had no

[Column 3]
power to retain her prey. Is not this a type
of the whole? Yea, verily.
	You are silent, dear, do you think I am ser-
monizing? Oh! thank you. I am so glad
you feel as I do; it is these mountains that are
preaching to us, and blessed be God. Through
the teachings of his Spirit we have the faculty
to receive their impressions. "There are many
voices in the world, and none of them are with-
out signification"—some that instruct, some
that encourage, and some that fill the soul with
inexpressible poetry, for our finest feelings can-
not be written with the incompetent language
we now possess—and some fill us with silent
adoration—and we "worship in the infinite."
	Friend of my soul, you grasp my hand, and
gladly I return the pressure. We too must
pass away; surely we shall meet in the eterni-
ties. Affinity is an eternal, immutable princi-
ple, and the affinity between us is firm. Give
me your hand, let us descend the hill together,
and return to our beloved home, this day shall
be noted in the diary of our lives.
	Sept. 1882.


POETRY.

	Poetry the language of the soul, "the blossom
and fragrance of all human knowledge, human
thoughts, human passion, emotions, language."
It is something divine. It is the echo of the
the music of that heavenly choir which causes
the "strings in Being's lyre" to vibrate, and
respond in notes far from being in perfect uni-
son yet to our dull ears in sweetest cadence.
Nature overflows with spirit of poetry. The
air is full of it, and the waves cannot resist its
power but dance and sparkle in its light. The
starry heavens proclaim their unseen magnifi-
cence in innumerable voices, whose melodies
are all too perfect and delicate; for other than
the celestial beings. The stars are the poetry
of heaven. Greater desires and nobler pur-
poses are awakened, in man by its influence,
and, as Shelley says, "it redeems from decay
the visitations of the divinity in man."
	As the sun with its bright and cheerful face
dispels the darkness and fears of night, and
brings us into the fullness of glorious day, so
poetry scatters the foreboding clouds of trouble
and anger, and calms the turbulent spirit into
perfect peace. It has power to soothe our
minds to rest, after "the cares that infest the
day." We forget the toil and burden of life,
and the troubled waves of anger and resent-
ment are subdued, as if a voice had said, "peace,
be still."
	Nature's book lies open before us to read at 
will. All are not equally sensitive to its
teachings, nor does everyone understand the
language of nature; but one who cherishes a
love and reverence for the beautiful, and its
Creator, cannot fail to have those affections
continually renewed.
	Who can read Bryant without feeling that
he was an interpreter of nature? He held
"communion with her invisible forms," and "to
him she spoke a various language." The old
boughs always revealed some mystery to him,
and every tiny flower that lifted its drooping
head to be kissed by the passing breeze breathed
to him of love and tenderness. Truly he was
a poet of nature. While reading him all the
latent music of our souls is awakened, and we
are raised above the illusions of this life, and
catch glimpses of a nobler one.
	Poetry is an imitative art. Its aim is to give
pleasure by imitation. In this respect it agrees
with music, sculpture, and painting, but they
differ in the means they employ. Poetry uses
as its means, words arranged in metre, and
music employs melodious sounds, sculpture, im-
itates by reproducing beautiful forms, and
painting by reproducing delicate blendings, of
color. These sister arts have many qualities


in common, but in one poetry stands alone: it
is the only one that asserts, as words are its in-
struments Its aim is not illusion, but the ex-
citement of those emotions that would be
aroused if the scene were to be enacted.
Rhythm is a safeguard against reality, as well
as an additional pleasure. As Wordsworth
says, "There is the perception of similitude in
dissimilitude. Rhythm is the dissimiliar ele-
ment. Yet when reading the productions of
the greatest poets, our minds become so
absorbed, and our emotions so influenced and
and carried so far beyond our control, that it
seems but a short step to reality. Our imag-
inations become excited as was the poet's,
while giving to airy nothing a local habitation
and a name."
	It is doubtful whether even the greatest poets
can compose poetry at will; for it is not like
reason, a power to be exercised at pleasure,
but he must be so pervaded and engrosed by
the subjects that he writes as by inspiration
"Thoughts that breathe and words that burn."
If not thus, it will be labored and mechanical
rather than flowing and musical. Nor do we
receive the first conceptions of the poet. If he
were capable of reproducing them, it is im-
possible to imagine the result. The thoughts
that we read with greatest pleasure, are but
feeble shadows of the originals. When the
subject first presents itself to the mind, inspira-
tion flashes forth its resplendent light, impart-
ing richness and beauty, but when composition
begins, inspiration wanes, and the force and
grandeur of the beginning generally declines
towards the end.
	Poetry and music are so closely related, that
when speaking of one the other is inferred.
They are "the parents of action good and
brave."

	"Music resembles poetry: in each
	Are nameless graces, which no methods teach,
	And which a master's hand alone can reach."

	What a beautiful illustration of language is
music, but when combined with her sister art,
it becomes eloquence highly ornamented.
Music like poetry, is "a sphere descended
maid." In all nature her presence is recog-
nized, in the sighing of a reed, in the gushing
rill, in the breeze as it softly whispers in the 
trees, making the little leaves dance merrily to
its enlivening airs. Nor is monotony found
anywhere in nature; no two leaves are alike,
no two flowers, no two faces; everything has
its distinguishing feature. Fresh evidences
are ever being found of the Creator's laws of
variety.
	The power of music is irresistible. It holds
sway over the passions, allaying anger and
strife. It animates warriors to brave and
courageous deeds. In trouble and sorrow
music is a great friend, and "wisdom's aid."
	Association unites with music in her efforts
to influence the emotions.

	"It makes a glad remembrance of our youth,
	Calls back past joys, and warms us into transport."

	At close of day how pleasant to listen to the 
notes of village bells, as they burst forth loud
and clear, and then linger and die in the dis-
tance.

	"Some chord in unison with what we hear
	Is touched within us, and the heart replies."

	The character of a nation is shown by its
music. Confucius said, "Would'st thou know
if a people be well governed, if its manners be
good or bad, examine the music it practises."
The poetry of a nation expresses its sentiments.
	May America's poetry ever be of the divinest
and best, and her music the most melodious,
and so continue to live, that it can be said,
Her history is her grandest poem.
		HATTIE F. CLOUGH.
	Cohoes, N. Y.


72	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE laws of Wisconsin do not allow murder-
ers, lunatics, nor women to vote. This is a
nice category in which to enumerate wives,
daughters, and mothers.—Evening Wisconsin.

	A NATIONAL society for woman suffrage has
been established in Paris. It will be indepen-
dent of any political or religious party. The
office is at 34, Rue de Chazelle (parc Monc-
eau), Paris. The minimum subscription is
three francs. There will also be honorary as-
sociates, who are not expected to subscribe.
Th[-] funds will be divided into three sections:
the expenses of the office and reports; the ex-
penses of issuing publications; and the fund for
meetings. Any other questions than that of
obtaining the suffrage for women will be ex-
cluded from the meetings and publications of
the society.—Ex.

	QUEEN ELIZABETH of Roumania, known in
literature under the pseudonym of Carmen
Sylva, has been elected a member of the Ac-
ademy of Science at Bucharest, and will be
formally installed next November. She is the
first lady to whom this compliment has been
paid. She is the daughter of Prince Herman
of Weid, and is about thirty years old. From
her early youth she has shown much taste and
talent for poetry. Her first literary work con-
sisted of poetry, which appeared in many
German reviews. Two years ago she published
a poem in German, containing four stories,
called "The Storms." It is for this work that
the Bucharest Academy has elected her a mem-
ber. She has also written a collection of phil-
osophical thoughts, which appeared in the
Nouvelle Revue; an epic called "Aschaver," and
a quantity of German translation of Rou-
manian poems, among others, those of Wassali
Alexandri, the best known of contemporary
Roumanian lyrists. The Queen is greatly be-
loved in Roumania, and it is an excellent
augury for the welfare of the young Danubian
kingdom that its sovereign assists in its literary
development—Womam's Journal.


CHILD'S ESSAY.

WEST JORDAN PRIMARY.

	My Dear Little Brothers and Sisters. As I
am appointed to write an essay I will try and
do the best I can, but I don’t think I can write
any thing that will be interesting to any of
you. I like to come to meeting and come in
time. I am willing to do any thing I am
called upon to do. We should be kind to those
placed over us, and listen to good counsel. We
are taught when we come to meeting, we should
be obedient to our parents and respectful to all
old people. We should pray night and morn-
iny, and in the day-time as well, for when any
of our little brothers or sisters are sick, we
should pray in our hearts, and have faith that
they will get well, and they will get well; inas-
much as we ask sincerely. I think if we would
attend meeting regularly we would feel a great
deal better than if we do not. My little broth-
ers and sisters, it we could only realize the
blessings that we are surrounded with. Kind
parents and teachers to instruct us. Let us
come to meeting and attend regularly and come
in time. Let us show by our actions that we
will do better in the future than we have done
in the past. Please excuse all mistakes, for
this is my first attempt; I will now close this
essay, wishing to do better the next time.
	Your Sister in the Primary Association.
		REBECCA GOFF.
July 8, 1882.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.
BY special request of MRS. E. R. SNOW SMITH,
Dr. ROMANIA B. PRATT
Will commence her class in Obstetrics,'November 1st,
1882, in her office over Godbe & Pitts' Drug Store. Lec-
tures, three per week for five months. During the course,
Drs. Anderson and Benedict will each deliver six prac-
tical lectures. Fee for course, $30.00; former stu-
dents, $20.00; books (3), $12.00, Manikin, skeleton, in-
struments and plates for illustration. Please send or-
ders for books early, as they have to be ordered from
the East.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	 Brown Yarns, 	Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns, 	Wool Batting,
Shawls, 		Colored Yarns, 	Washboards,
Linseys, 	Cassimers, 		Washboards,
Jeans, 		Tweeds, 		Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

