VOL. 11.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1883.			No. 19


MISUNDERSTOOD

		A REMONSTRANCE.

"The heart knoweth its own bitter and a stranger
		comprehendeth it not."

How can a stranger in their griefs take part,—
	Whose greatest trouble can be least explained?
How can a stranger soothe the aching heart,—
	Whose sorrows must be silently sustained?

How can the sensitive, the fond, the true—
	To whom the waves of woe full often come—
Strip, their loved idols for the public view,
	Or tell the griefs, whose weight doth make them
		dumb?

Oh! who can understand their keenest woe,—
Whose love or pride must needs withhold the key?
The links of life are complicated so,
	That truest lives oft seem a mystery.

Uncomprehended, often disapproved,—
	Brave, sterling souls such weighty crosses bear;
Alike by censure or by praise unmoved—
	Upward they climb beneath their load of care.

Not deigning e’en to cast their burdens down,
	Lest, on more helpless ones the load should fall;
Thus they endure the censure or the frown
	Of those at ease who claim to know it all.

Hail! Dauntless hearts, too pr[--]d to e’en disclose
	Your griefs to those who comprehend  [-]hem not;
Stlll struggle upward, for your Father, [---] ws
	The bitterness of each appointed lot.

Still struggle upward, for the gates of heaven
	To suffering souls are near, and open wide;
Through pain made perfect, are the noblest, even
	As was our Captain, Christ the Crucified!
				EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
﻿THE ART GALLERIES AND MU-
	SEUMS OP VIENNA.
			______
	Vienna is in itself a storehouse filled
with the treasures gathered by the patience
and industry of many generations. The
Upper Belvedere contains one of the finest galler-
ies of pictures in Europe. The arrangement is
excellent. The saloons in which the differ-
ent schools of painting, are placed are
readily found. Each picture is distinctly
marked with  the artist's name and the
date of its execution. This simple, yet
definite, disposition of the paintings is a
great satisfaction to the tourist, whether his
time be limited or not. The ease with
which the particular object sought can be
found, enhances very much one's enjoyment
of it. These large galleries are always fa-
tiguing. The greater our  interest, the
greater our weariness. The pictures, if
carefully examined, tax the mental powers,
and the eyes, more than all things else.
The effort to follow  out the details of
his thought, as it stands on the canvas
before one, glowing in the colors placed
there by the hand of genius, must always
be exhaustive to the mind of ordinary
mortal.
	When the colors grow dim to our mor-
tal eyes, and the stories they are intended
to tell seem incomprehensible or confused,
we leave them for a time, and go away
to the more quiet colorless marble, and find
relief for the eyes and a partial rest for
the brain. The statue generally tells its

[Column 2]
story in more simple fashion than the canvas
or the ceiling.
	The Italian painters have ample room ac-
corded them at the Belvedere, the Venetians
holding the largest place. Tintoretto and
Titian seem like cordial friends as you
meet them just beyond the threshold.
Palma Vecchio's "Madonna" would suffice
one for an entire day's pleasure, if one
were only at liberty to take these wonderful
things in some homoepathic way, instead of
crowding one grand thing upon another,
and then packing the day's experience into
our minds after the manner that we put
all we can into our trunks for transportation.
Rubens holds a large place in this large
gallery. His "Ignatius Loyolo" and the
preaching of St. Francis Xavier are thought
by critics to be among the finest of his
works.
	The Lower Belvedere is a separate build-
ing standing quite a little distance from
the picture gallery. In the lower building
are gathered antiques - the Egyptian antiqui-
ties and the famous Ambras collection. The
treasures found here were originally collected
by Archduke Ferdinand of the Tyrol, and
placed by him in Schloss Ambras, the old
castle on the Mittelgeberge, near Innsbruck,
made memorable as the home of Philippina,
the beautiful daughter of a banker of
Augsburg, whom the Count of Tyrol married
for love, much to the displeasure of the
aristocratic old Emperor.
	The valuable relics of the grand battles
and knights of the days which are very
far gone into the past, were taken to
Vienna in 1856, much to the indignation
of the people of Innsbruck and the Tyrol,
who felt they were the rightful custodians
of these treasures. The equestrian portion
is particularly valuable, and of great inter-
est to the student of history. Some of it
belonged to the Hapsburg family; a part of
it antedates their reign, while many of the
articles are trophies of their prowess in
battle. Fire-arms, sabres and swords are
gathered in one department. Valuable speci-
mens of embroidery on sacerdotal robes fill
quite a space. The old heroes of the past
do not seem so very far away when you
may stretch out your hand and touch their
garments or their weapons. The battle-axe of
Montezuma, and the quiver of Kara Mustaph,
would quicken the blood of the most stolid.
Ancient vases, bronzes, metallic vessels and
curiosities found in the Tyrol, go to make
up the sum of this most interesting and valu-
able collection. Portraits of the notables of
old, including the beautiful Philippina and
the Archduke Ferdinand, adorn the walls.
	Austrians and Germans have no lack of ma-
terial wherewith to stock a museum of weap-
ons. We of a younger country, which as
yet has had no time for avoidable disputes
and battles, are being continually surprised by
these warlike chroniclers of the fighting past
of Europe. We find page after page of his-
tory in simple contemplation of these articles.
The Waffen Museum, one of the finest build-
ings in the city, is a rich combination of the
Moorish and Romanesque styles. The vesti-
bule and staircase are more than ordinarily
fine. This structure is set aside for the im-
perial collection of weapons, a large and in-
teresting assortment of armor and arms be-

[Column 3]
longing to emperors and knights, kings and
counts, whose lives have been in some way
identified with the history of Austria.
	The Imperial Arsenal in the old part of
the city contains a splendid armory. Several
thousand men are constantly employed here.
Many of them are engaged in manufacturing
arms, with which the Austrian soldiers of
to-day hope to make their names as famous
as their ancestors did in the days which are
gone. The walls of the great court of the
armory are festooned with the huge chain
which Solyman the Magnificent caused the
Turks who fought under him to throw across
the Danube at Buda. Among the treasures of
this arsenal may be seen the armor of Sobieski,
and a coat worn by Gustavus Adolphus at the
battle of Lutzen. A standard captured from
Mohammed IV, by Sobieski, during the de-
fence of Vienna, is one of the curiosities.
	Never did a city so stimulate one to active
efforts to secure its sights and shows, and in no
place has the weather been a greater detriment
to the desires of our heart than here. If one
could imbibe through the pores anything but
colds, rheumatism or malaria, here would seem
to be the place for such an accomplishment.
Eyes and ears do not take in enough at a time
of what we find here to satisfy our thirst for
what we know is in this city. The value of
its collections is a constant matter of surprise
to us. Its educational institutions are well
endowed, and number among them a universi-
ty, an academy of fine arts, a polytechnic in-
stitution, a school of astronomy, and a con-
servatory of music. In hospitals, asylums,
and benevolent institutions, few, if any, cities
can outrank this Austrian capital. Its libra-
ries are well filled with valuable books, its
schools are full, and beggars are seldom if ever
seen in its streets. Its population seems cheer-
ful and happy. Its coffee-houses and club
rooms find abundant customers. Its theatres
are never without patronage nor its promenades
without pedestrians, when the weather will
admit of out-of-door exercise. - RUTH RANDOM,
in American Sentry.


UNIVERSITY EDUCATION FOR WOMEN.--
The examiners of the Royal University of
Ireland have recommended the names of nine
women candidates for the first university ex-
amination in arts.  Forty-one ladies passed
the matriculation examination:—A very im-
portant step has been taken recently at Queen’s
College, Belfast, Ireland.  A memorial was-
presented lately by the Belfast Ladies, Institute-
to the President and Council of the Queen’s
College, asking that certain of the advanced
or "honor classes should be opened to those
young ladies who have passed the matri-
culation examination of the Royal University,
pnder such conditions as may seem best to-
them. The following resolution was passed
at the meeting of the Council afterwards.
“That the Council is disposed to sanction the
admission of women to certain classes in the
college, if arrangements of a satisfactory
character can be made, and if it is found
that a sufficient number of women are
desirous of availing themselves of the privi-
lege.” There is little doubt that this change
is due to the altered position of the Queen's
College, which is now connected with ther
Royal University, which admits women, instead
of with the old Queen’s University, which ex-
cluded them.—Ex


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
AND PATRIARCH.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
For years our most charming and popular
singer was Brother John Kay, whose name,
it will be remembered, became almost a house-
hold word. His voice, deep and mellow, need-
ed no accompanaiment to fill our halls, and
the powerful and thrilling effect upon the au-
dience when he sang “The Children of Judah”
or “The Sea, the sea, the open sea,” and others
equally charming and melodious, (as well as
some original songs) was such that once heard
could not easily be forgotten. I shall again
have occasion to speak of him as he was one
of the prominent actors in those scenes, and
also after we became wanderers in search of
homes in this far off wilderness, where we had
cause to believe that we should dwell un-
molested to enjoy the privilege of worshiping
the Almighty after' the dictates of our own
consciences.
I must now revert to other scenes, and gath-
er up some broken threads to my narrative
which have been left to give place to other his-
torical incidents. My acquaintance with
Sarah Ann Whitney, eldest daughter of
Bishop N. K. and Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
whose name is mentioned in one of my father's
letters, I began to make in the Spring of 1842.
Though our parents had long been associated,
and we had known each other since the school-
days of Kirtland, but as she was some four years
older than myself, who had entered my teens
but a few months previous, I had never
thought of becoming a companion to her.
I had grown up very fast and my father
often took me out with him and for this reason
was taken to be older than I was. I really
thought it curious that Sarah Ann should take
such a fancy to me. My first introduction
into her circle was at a party given in honor
of her seventeenth birthday, in March, 1842,
in the Masonic room above Joseph Smith’s
store. The latter her father had charge of,
and his family occupied a small house adjoin-
ing it. This was quite a select party. Among
them were the daughters of Elder Rigdon,
Bishop Higbee’s sons, the Miss Pierces, (Mar-
garet Pierce Young being one of them) and
Rachel, Mary and Mary Ann Ivins, the for-
mer, now Rachel Grant, were cousins, with
some of their brothers and many others too
numerous to mention, were among the guests.
The Prophet spent a little time with them, but
took no part. I believe that I was the young-
est and I know that I was the most bashful, so
much so that I declined nearly every invita.
tion to take part in their various games. If
there had been dancing I might have passed
through with a better grace, but dancing was
not so much approved at that time, at least
was not so commonly practiced among the
Saints. Sarah Ann’s brother Horace, who was
twenty months her senior, made one of the
party but had never dreamed of such a thing
as matrimony with me, whom he only remem-
bered in the earliest school days in Kirtland
as occupying one of the lowest seats. He be-
coming enough advanced, soon left the one
taught in the red schoolhouse on the flat
and attended a higher one on the hill, and
through our moving to Missouri and Illinois
we lost sight of each other. After the party
was over I stopped the rest of the night with
Sarah, and as her room and his were adjoin-
ing, being only separated by a partition, our
talk seemed to disturb him, and he was impo-
lite enough to tell us of it, and request us to
stop and let him go to sleep, which was proof
enough that he had never thought of me only
as the green school girl that I was, or he would
certainly have submitted gracefully (as lovers
always should) to be made a martyr of. No
brother and sister could be more affectionately
devoted to each other than were Horace and
Sarah Ann. He had always been to her like
a guardian. This I heard from her mother
previous to our intimacy, and it made an im-
pression upon my mind as being admirable
and praiseworthy in an elder brother. Soon
after this event he was engaged to accompany
Amasa Lyman and others, as clerk, to the
Southern States, where they went to preach
and transact some business for Joseph, and
after a short absence they returned. He was
a printer by trade, and was employed by Don
Carlos Smith until the death of the latter,
whom he loved as dearly as an own brother.
The next Autumn after his return from the
South the Bishop moved his family into a
house on Parley Street, nearer to us. About
a year after her birthday party she invited my
brother and I to attend another small party
which, to me, was very pleasant and far more
enjoyable than the other, there being present
only a few select friends. The Prophet was 
there during the early part of the evening,
and some peculiar remarks which he made, I
remember, gave food for talk and no little
amount of wit which passed from one to the
other after he had left; and William and I
talked it over after we returned home, of the
enjoyable time and the peculiarities of Joseph.
Soon after this, on the 12th of May, 1843,
Horace left for the East to visit his mother’s
parents, who were then living in North
Canaan Co., Connecticut, and other of his con-
nections in Ohio, remaining away over a year.
He and Joseph Kingsbury were in Kirtland
when they heard of Joseph’s and Hyrum’s
death, and they returned to Nauvoo as quickly,
as possible. It was not till the summer after
he had gone East that I learned of the exist-
ence of the plural order of marriage, and that
the Spring of 1842 had seen his sister Sarah
Ann the wife of Joseph Smith. My father
was the first to introduce it to me; which had a
similar effect to a sudden shock of a small
earthquake. When he found (after the first
outburst of displeasure for supposed injury)
that I received it meekly, he took the first op-
portunity to introduce Sarah Ann to me as
Joseph’s wife. This astonished me beyond
measure; but I could then understand a few
things which had previously been to me a
puzzle, and among the rest, the meaning of his
words at her party. I saw, or could imagine,
in some degree, the great trial that she must
have passed through, and that it had required
a mighty struggle to take a'step of that kind,
and had called for a sacrifice, such as few can
realize but those who first rendered obedience
to this law. It was a strange doctrine, and
very dangerous too, to be introduced at such 
a time, when in the midst of the greatest trou-
ble Joseph had ever encountered. The Mis-
sourians and Illinoisians were ready and deter-
mined to destroy him. They could but take
his life, and that he considered a small thing
when compared with the eternal punishment
which he was doomed to suffer if he did not
teach and obey this principle. No earthly in-
ducement could be held forth to the women
who entered this order. It was to be a life-
sacrifice for the sake of an everlasting glory
and exaltation. Sarah Ann took this step of
her own free will, but had to do it unbeknown
to her brother, which greived her most, and
also her mother, that they could not open their
hearts to him. But Joseph feared to disclose it,
believing that the Higbee boys would embitter
Horace against him, as they had already
caused serious trouble, and for this reason he
favored his going East, which Horace was not
slow to accept. He had had some slight sus-
picions that the stories about Joseph were not
all without foundation, but had never told
them, nor did he know the facts till after his
return to Nauvoo, when Sarah hastened to tell
him all. It was no small stumbling-block to
him when learning of the course which had
been taken towards him, which was hard for
him to overlook. But Joseph had always
treated him with the greatest kindness from 
the time that he came to live in his father’s 
house in Kirtland, in fact they had attended 
the same school and studied Hebrew together, I
and had pitched quoits and played ball togeth-
er many a time there and in Nauvoo, and he
could hold nothing against him now he was
dead. Joseph was noted for his child-like love
and familiarity with children, and he never
seemed to feel that he was losing any of his
honor or dignity in doing so. And if he
heard the cry of a child he would rush out of 
the house to see if it was harmed. Sarah
felt when she took this step that it would be
the means of severing her from the happy cir- :
cle in which she had moved as one of their
guiding stars. She was called proud and
somewhat eccentric; but the influence that she
seemed to hold over one was almost magnetic.
I found her incapable of professing anything
which she did not feel, and that she was a most
pure-minded, conscientious and God-fearing
girl. Our friendship dated from that period,
and we became, as much as is possible, like
“the two halves of one soul.”
Bishop Whitney was not a man that readily
accepted of every doctrine, and would ques-
tion the Prophet very closely, upon principles
if not made clear to his understanding. When
Joseph saw that he was doubtful concerning the
righteousness of this celestial order he told
him to go and enquire of the Lord concerning
it, and he should receive a testimony for himself.
The Bishop, with his wife, who had for years
been called Mother Whitney, retired together 
and unitedly besought the Lord for a testi-
mony whether or not this principle was from
Him; and they ever after bore testimony that
they received a manifestation and that it was
so powerful they could not mistake it. The
Bishop never afterwards doubted, and they
willingly gave to him their daughter, which
was the strongest proof that they could possibly
give of their faith and confidence in him as a
true Prophet of God.
The following verses, written about the time
of the death of the Prophet and the gloom
that shrouded the city, are not published be-
cause of their literary merit, but they indicate
a pathos and warm hearted tenderness, and al-
though simple in language, express the love
and good feeling entertained by the members
of the choir and band foreach other, the
reverence in which they held the Prophet, and
their intense love for the City of Nauvoo.
They will be likely to remind many of the
older Latter-day Saints of the scenes in which
they took an active part.


A SONG FOR THE CHOIR.
How cheering to meet with so many true friends,
Companions in sorrow and joy, without end;
We spend a few moments in happy delight,
But 'tis time to go home, so, my dear friends, good night
Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
We’ll return to our friends and companions at home.
But alas! we have lost Brother Joseph! He’s gone
To rest for a season from sorrow and pain—
He's gone to prepare us (then let us not mourn)
In a mansion of bliss, an eternal sweet home.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
How cheering the thought of our endless sweet home.
Let praises to God In the highest be given,
Let angels above shout His praises in heaven;
Shout, ye Saints on the earth, for the time will
come
When we’ll meet Brother Joseph In an endless
home.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
Hallelujah to God an eternal sweet home.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


O GOD! SAVE THE BAND.

O God! save the Band whose hearts are all one
To sound forth thy praises with music and song—
To sound forth thy praises in marches so grand,
And play the sweet tunes of, God save the Band!

O God! save the Band from affliction and woe.
From sorrow and death, and all of their foes;
In concert to live while on earth they shall stand,
And join in the chorus of, God save the Band!

Let the trumpets sound lond and clari'netts as one,
And the piccolos keep time to the beat of the drum;
Let the trombone’s deep tones echo wild through the
	land
To the spirit of love of, God save the Band!

Let cornopean’s soft notes in unison be heard,
And bugles add strength to the praise of the Lord,
Let the Saints in splendor with colors so grand,
March forth to the tune of, God save the Band!

We ask that the Twelve may regard us in love,
And lead us to play with the Band that’s above,
Where Joseph and Hyrum forever will stand
And join the rich strains of, God save the Band!

O God! save the Band, in full chorus we’ll join,
And pray that our spirits with Thine may combine;
And all that is evil we’ll ever withstand
And pray without ceasing, O God! save the Band!


OH GOD SAVE NAUVOO.
When we pray for all blessings to equally flow,
For the gathering and kingdom of Christ here below,
For the good of all people, the Mormon and Jew,
For a more perfect union we’ll pray without
ceasing—
O God save Nauvoo.
When you pray for old Israel, now scattered afar.
For the nations and kingdoms degraded by war,
For the world in its blindness and wickedness too.
For redemption as promised, then pray without doubt-
ing—
	O God save Nauvoo.
When you pray for your foes, both without and within
For the captive in prison, the exile in sin,
When you enter your closet as Christ told you to,
And ask of the Father, then pray in the Spirit—
	O God save Nauvoo.
To be Continued.


A VENERABLE WOMAN.
PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.
[Continued.]
 It is true of women as well as men that
wo reverence greatness in those who lived in
former ages, while we pass by the virtues and
heroism of those around us without notice.
The past is hallowed, to be sure, and we
do well, to revere the great and good who have
lived and labored in former times, but it is
also right and proper to render honor and
praise where ever it is due to merit; and this the
Latter-day Saints should be able to do in a
way that need not be offensive.  It is good to
feel that one’s labors are appreciated, although
the glory of all efforts made to build  up
Zion belongs to the Lord, and should be given
to Him.
 Sister Presendia has been a woman of great
integrity of character and capable of intense
spiritual force, from her first connection with
the Church, consequently manifestations of
power to her through the gifts of tongues, inter-
pretation of tongues and visions has been quite
remarkable.  These blessings have been
scattered over the interval of time from her
coming to Kirtland up to the present and have
helped her to bear with exemplary patience
and heroic fortitude the many trials, deep and
dark, as well as persecutions through which
she has had to pass in this eventful half cen-
tury, for it is now nearly fifty years since she
first believed in the true Gospel.  It is not
possible, nor would it be wise to dwell or
elaborate upon incidents of this kind; those
we have given are sufficient to show that such
gifts are a part of the religion which we have
embraced, and not a myth.
The Huntingtons removed to Missouri, and
Mr. and Mrs. Buell also went up with the
Saints and settled in Washington township.
Clay Co., me. They were living at that place
when Joseph and the brethren were im-
prisoned in Liberty jail, when Sister Presendia
visited them on two different occasions. Wm.
Huntington, the brother of Presendia, was one
who was with the Prophet in that dreadful
prison.  Sister Presendia gives the following
account of her visits, which have only once
been published in the “Women of Mormon-
dom:” “In the month of February, 1839, my
father, with Heber C. Kimball and Alanson
Ripley, came and stayed over night with us, on
their way to visit the Prophet and brethren
in Liberty jail.  I was invited to go with
them.”
“When we arrived at the jail we found a
heavy guard outside and inside the door.  We
were watched very closely, lest we should leave
tools to help the prisoners escape.”
“I took dinner with the brethren in prison;
they were much pleased to see the faces of
true friends; but I cannot describe my feelings
on seeing that man of God there confined in
such a trying time for the Saints, when his
counsel was so much needed.  And we were
obliged to leave them in that horrid,prison,
surrounded by a wicked mob.”
“While in prison, the brethren were present-
ed. with human flesh to eat.  My brother Wm.
Huntington tasted before the word could be
passed from Joseph to him.  It was the flesh
of a colored man.”
“After my second visit to the prison with
Frederick G. Williams, the prophet addressed
to me the following letter.”
“This letter I have preserved as a precious
memento dearer far than gold. It was pub-
lished for the first time in the “Women of
Mormondom.”
“Liberty Jail, March 15th, 1839.
Dear Sister:
“My heart rejoiced at the friendship you
manifested in requesting to have conversation
with us; but the jailer is a very jealous man,
for fear some one will have tools for us to get
out with He is under the eye of the mob
continually and his life is at stake if he grants
us any privilege.  He will not let us converse
with any one alone.
“O! what a joy it would be for us to to see
our friends.  It would have gladdened my heart
to have had the privilege of coming with you;
but the hand of tyranny is upon us; but thanks
be to God it cannot last always; and He that
sitteth in the heavens will laugh at their
calamity and mock when their fear cometh.
	"We feel, dear sister, that our bondage is
not of long duration.  I trust that I shall have
the chance to give such instructions as have
been communicated to us before long; and as
you wanted some instruction from us and also
to give us some information, and administer
some consolation to us, and to find out what is
best for you to do, I think that many of the
brethren, if they will be pretty still, can stay
in this country until the indignation is over
and passed.  But I think it will be better for
Bro. Buell to leave and go with the rest of
the brethren, if he keeps the faith, and at any
rate, for thus speaketh the Spirit concerning
him.  I want him and you to know that I am
your true friend.
“I was glad to see you.  No tongue can tell
what inexpressible joy it gives a man to see
the face of one who has been a friend, after
having been inclosed in the walls of a prison
for five months.  It seems to me my heart
will always be more tender after this than it
was before.
“My heart bleeds continually when I contem-
plate, the distress of the Church.  O that I
could be with them!  I would not shrink at
toil and hardship to render them comfort and
consolation.  I want the blessing once more to
lift my voice in the midst of the Saints, I
would pour out my soul to God for their
instruction.  It has been the plan of the devil
to hamper and distress me from the beginning,
to keep me from explaining myself to them,
and I never have had the opportunity to give
them the plan that God has revealed to me.
Many have run without being sent, crying,
“Tidings, my Lord,” and have caused injury to
the Church, giving the adversary more power
over them that walk by sight and not by faith.
Our trouble will only give us that knowledge to
understand the mind of the ancients.  For my
part I think I never could have felt as I now
do if I had not suffered the wrongs which I
have suffered.  All things shall work together
for good to them that love God.
“Beloved sister, we see that perilous times
have truly come and the things which we
have so long expected have at last began to
usher in; but when you see the fig tree begin
to put forth its leaves, you may know that the
summer is nigh at hand.
“There will be a short work on the earth; it
has now commenced.  I suppose there will
soon be perplexity all over the earth.  Do not
let our hearts faint when these things come
upon us, for they must come or the word can-
not be fulfilled.  I know that something will
soon take place to stir up this generation to
see what they have been doing, and that their
fathers have inherited lies, and they have, been
led captive by the devil to no profit.  But
they know not what they do.  Do not have
any feeling of enmity towards any son or
daughter of Adam.  I believe I shall be let
out of their hands some way or other, and
shall see good days. We cannot do anything,
only stand still and see the salvation of God.
He must do his own work or it must fall to the
ground.  We must not take it in our hands to
avenge our wrongs. “Vengance is mine, saith
the Lord:  I will repay.” I have no fears; I
shall stand unto death, God being ray helper.
“I wanted to communicate something and I
wrote this.  Write to us if you can.
			&c., 			J. SMITH, JR."
	This letter to Sister Presendia will be read
with great interest by the Saints, and all
people must admire the simplicity of expres-
sion and humility so perfectly in harmony
with the character of a true prophet of God,
and so unlike a false prophet or teacher.  A
prisoner in the hands or at the mercy of a
mob who hungered for the blood of the Saints,
his people that he loved better than his own
life, deprived of his counsel under the most
trying circumstances, persecutions on every
hand, yet how nobly he speaks in his letter,
how grand and lofty the sentiments therein set
forth!
To be Continued


If you wish success in life make persever-
ance your bosom friend, experience your
wise counselor, caution your elder brother.
and hope your guardion.
	A young lawyer lately approached David
Davis with a question as formidable as that
Senator's physique—nothing less than might
he pay attention to a young lady of wealth,
Mr. Davis' ward. The decision was reserved
for a day; when rendered as follows it con-
tained a formidable hint: "I cannot give my con-
sent, not because you are poor and depend-
ent upon your profession, but because you
are in the habit of incurring needless debts,
without knowing or caring how you are to
pay them."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 	-	Editor.
Published semi-monthly. In Salt Late City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Publisher Woman's Exponent,
Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1883.


SWEET IS LIBERTY.
"Sweet to us is Liberty, and Bondage odious."

	How appropriate are these words to the peo-
ple of Utah.  How significant at the present
time.  Every one who has in his veins the
blood of freedom must feel keenly the thraldom
and oppression of the enforcement of the Ed-
munds law as interpreted by the Commision-
ers.  The very men and women whose ances-
tors helped to found this great government
and establish republican institutions, to be de-
prived of the franchise without judge or jury,
or any opportunity of defence whatever; such a
policy pursued by those who profess to be ad-
ministrators of law and justice, is sufficient to
make men feel the utmost indignation in their
hearts and to protest strongly against such in-
justice, and exclaim "free we were born," and
there is no power to subdue the free-born soul,
though they may disfranchise and thus punish
men and women for something unknown and
unsubstantiated.  "Kings themselves hold no
dominion over the free will.”
 The people of Utah have rights that ought
to be respected by the general government,
but how has it been?  What aid has been
given to them in settling the great American
Desert?  This is what has been done, to cry out
against them, to beseech Congress to stop their
proselyting, to hinder them from gathering peo-
ple from other nations, seeking to make it an
international question; to take from them every
local position of trust or emolument, so that
they shall have no voice in the disposal of their
own taxes, or any revenue from their own in-
dustries; to put the men who settled this
country and opened up its agriculture and
manufactures under the feet of these who
would despoil them of their worldly possessions
break down their institutions, and deprive them
of every right that a free people are entitled to
enjoy.
	The clamor has been so great and so general,
that without inquiring into the facts, newspa-
pers will publish and republish the most auda-
cious falsehoods against the "Mormons," and if
any are bold enough in the face of public opinion
to defend their cause and tell the truth, they are
immediately assailed and upbraided as having
joined the "Mormon" Church or been bought
over, etc.  Every scheme and cunning plan has
been resorted to, it would seem, to deprive this
people of liberty of conscience, and yet they are
not conquered, much as their enemies have
have conspired against them; though many of
them were not permitted to vote at the last
election.  And because it happened there were
a few women who could take the registration
oath (bad as it was made) and cast a vote for
the man of the people's choice, these would-be-
friends and protectors of women, great in
their own esteem, and loud in their demonstra-
tions of freedom to womankind, set to work to
petition Congress to annul the woman's suf-
frage act passed by the Legislature of Utah.
What nobility of purpose!  How magnanimous! 
How anxious to protect women they must have
been! They excuse themselves by saying,
"these women vote just as their husbands do!"
Well, what of that, if they vote as they wish to?
It sometimes happens that whole families vote
for one man in Massachusetts and in other
States.  Is that a crime?  Not there! In con-
tradiction of the assertions made that wemen
are compelled to vote as the husband does,
we can positively assert that no man ever
asked us a question of this kind, nor have we
ever heard any lady of our acquaintance say
her husband or any other man ever sought to
influence her vote.  Women have their own
free agency in Utah and are quite as indepen-
dent in their opinions as any women on the
face of the earth.  The officials sent here
by the United States government know this
is true.  Moreover, they know that woman
suffrage has worked no evil whatever, and not
one of them can truthfully make an assertion
to that effect.  Yes, women are influenced
to vote by their own ideas of right and justice.
They want men to fill public offices that they
know to be honorable and upright, and not those
who would take from them every vestige of
liberty.  A woman who goes to the polls and
deposits a ballot, feels her political indepen-
dence and that she is virtually part and parcel
of the great body politic, not through her father
or husband, but in her own vested right.  It is
better to represent yourself than to be repre-
sented by another, is most true in this particu-
lar, and applies with quite as much force to the
ballot as upon any other question.  If anything
will give woman a desire to think for herself
and form opinions of her own, and make her
feel the need of informing herself on subjects
connected with the laws and government of her
country and interested in the general welfare,
it will be the practical exercise of the ballot.
	The mother, it is very generally conceded;
forms most essentially the character of her sons
as well as her daughters, and according to her
superiority of endowments, she imparts strength
and force to their capabilities; the im-
portant responsibilities of the ballot will most
certainly add to her attainments and give tone
and balance to her femininity of character, and
thus will she be able to impart to her offspring
thoss requisites and that higher home education
that will help them to reach a higher standard,
and who knows but through the advancement
of women, and their political emancipation,
the laws may be better adjusted and a broader
plane may be reached for all humanity.  At
any rate the experiment is worth trying.
	So far Senator Edmunds has not succeeded in
debarring the women of Utah of their franchise,
although he and others sought to deprive them
of this inestimable privilege.  One would think
Judge Black's logical and magnificent argument
for Utah ought to have put an end to this ever
recurring quibble, whether "Mormons" should
be tolerated or not, on account of their religious
belief; but although the Judge is a most learn-
ed and able lawyer, yet many people will not
listen even to the soundest argument, because
their prejudice is so great.  They do not com-
prehend liberty for all people of whatever creed
or nation, vouchsafed by the Constitution, nor
that Congress shall make no law abridging re-
ligious liberty.  Judge Black's argument com-
mends itself and will certainly be read with
great interest by the honest and intelligent
who are not blinded by bigotry and a desire to
crush the "Mormons."  Those who voted for
the passage of the Edmund's bill perhaps were
not aware that they were striking a deadly
blow to religious liberty in the United
States, To pursue the policy towards this peo-
ple that the anti-Mormons recommend would
be to change the laws and ordinances of the
local government, and overrule and tread under
foot law and order as maintained heretofore,
once the pride and boast of this beautiful and
quiet city, and arrogate to themselves every
vestige of the power of office and make the peo-
ple of Utah a set of serfs and vassals.
 But there is still some power vested in the
people of Utah, they are not all disfranchised
and they appreciate the meaning of the word
liberty, and they are undoubtedly capable of
maintaining the rights of freemen.  They know
they have the right on their side, and God and
the right are a great majority.  Honor to Judge
Black and all such noble minded men, who
dare stand up boldly and plead the cause of the
weak and down-trodden.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Women’s Conference of this Stake of
Zion will be held in the 14th, Ward in this
City, on Friday and Saturday, 9th and 10th inst.
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. each day.
The Relief Society will convene on Friday and
a full attendance is particularly requested.
On Saturday morning the Primary Conference
will be held probably in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall. Saturday Afternoon will be
the Conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. It is
expected the officers of these several organiza-
tions will interest themselves in circulating
notice of the Conference, that every society
and association may be well represented by
its members. Secretaries should be prompt in
sending in their reports.

	WE have received, by courtesy of the author,
a copy of "The Life of Nephi," recently
issued from the office of the JUVENILE IN-
STRUCTOR. It is the ninth book of the Faith
Promoting series, and is quite as good, if not
the best of them all; it is written in the
peculiarly original style of the author, Bro.
George Q. Cannon. It will give the young
reader most excellent ideas of the character
and life of the great and good prophet Nephi.
His example is one worthy of emulation by
the young of this generation. This book will
be a most important one in the libraries of
the young people. To read such books will
enrich the mind, and strengthen all the
faculties that are calculated to make the
character noble and exalted. Good reading is
one of the delicate luxuries our young people
should indulge in, but they cannot be too
careful in the choice of books; parents can-
not be too particular in selecting reading
matter, there is great danger to the young
in reading as well as in association, and to
allow a child to read everything is to allow
the mind to grow up to weeds of the rankest
character that are likely to choke out all the
beautiful germs that always require care in
their training. "The Life of Nephi" contains
100 pages and is for sale at the office of the
JUVENILE, price 25 cts. It ought to have a
wide circulation, the merits of the book de-
mand it. Such sketches written will be likely
to encourage the reading of the Book of
Mormon which is sadly neglected by many.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints is expected to re-
port semi-annually to the General Confer-
ences in this city, held in April and October, its


complete statistical and financial condition.
In order to make this report properly, it is
necesary to receive particulars of all organiza-
tions of the Relief Society in our own and for-
eign countries. Therefore, when such organiza-
tions exist that are not included in the several
Stakes of Zion here at home (that report
through the Stake Secretary) they should be re-
ported separately in branches to the Secretary
of the Central board, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
Salt Lake City, Utah, Box 785, as soon as prac-
ticable, now and hereafter twice a year, in time
for the general reports. As we are aware there
are many of these branches of the Relief Society
that have never reported at all, we would sug-
gest that in the first report made they give
date of organization and what Elders officiated
in organizing; names of officers and such other
data as relate thereto; that all may be recorded
in perfect order, and in a thorough business-
like manner. Hoping that this request may
meet with a ready response, and ever pray-
ing for those engaged in this great and good
work, we are your sisters in the Gospel,
			ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH, Pres.,
			SARAH M. KIMBALL, Sec.,
	Central Board Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]
		A SERMON ON CANVAS.
	One of the most eloquent sermons we have
ever experienced, and certainly one of the most
marvelous ever preached through the medium
of the painter's art, is on exhibition at the Dore
Gallery, 35, New Bond Street, London. We refer
to the mammoth painting by M. Gustave Dore,
entitled "Christ leaving the Praetorium," al-
ready celebrated in Europe and America, and
pronounced by competent critics to be the  most
wonderful production of palette and brush
which the present age can boast. It was exe
cuted in Paris, fron 1867 to 1872, but as the work
was not uninterrupted, it can scarcely be said
to have occupied that period in painting. As
a matter of fact, the time expended on it was
less than three years. It was in a forward but
unfinished state at the beginning of the Franco-
German war, and during the siege of Paris lay
carefully folded up and hidden away in the
earth, to preserve it from injury by shot and
shell or other impending casualties. At the
close of the bloody and ruinous strife it was
resurrected and brought forth from its fiery bap-
tism and burial, and, as if still further a figure
and type of the Divine character it portrays,
perfected and placed on high to elicit the won-
der and admiration of the world.
	The first, though far from most important
feature which strikes the beholder of this beau-
tiful and sublime specimen of art, is its immen-
sity. The canvas containing it is no less than
twenty feet in height by thirty in width, and
takes up one entire side of the Gallery. The 
figures covering it, of which there is a veritable 
multitude, are life size, and so strikingly life-
like, that at first sight they seem to be actually
moving about upon the canvas, thus investing
the picture with an inexpressible charm while
clothing it in all its fearful reality. The subject
is explained by the title—“Christ leaving the
Praetorium," the artist having chosen for the
theme of his masterpiece that thrilling episode
in the history of our blessed Redeemer, where
He, after being tried and condemned before
Pilate, is descending the steep stairway leading
from the Praetorium or Hall of Judgment on
His way to Golgotha, the scene of the cruci-
fixion.
	The figure of Christ, to use the language of
the writer of an excellent critique on this cele-
brated picture, "is nothing short of an inspira-

[COLUMN 2]
tion." We have never before seen a portrait of
the Savior—and we have seen many styles,
both ancient and modern—which came any 
where near suggesting, in our opinion, a correct
or consistent idea of Him who died that man
might live. All other artists, whose ideals we
have examined, in their over anxiety to make
him appear beautiful, have simply rendered
him effeminate, and in nearly all paintings
descriptive of his Passion, in order to depict the
intensity of his sufferings, have imparted to
the countenance an expression of despair and
pain as undignified as it is ordinary and repul-
sive. The e fe tures, together with the stereo-
typed corons, blazing halo or moonlight back-
ground for the head, as unsightly and unnatural
as the feathered wings given to this day by
Christian limners to their angels and immortals,
have invariably spoiled, for our taste, every
pictorial representation containing them. But
Do e, with the characteristic daring of true
genius, has departed entirely from these tradi-
tional customs and given us in this sublime
creation—the spirit of a God in the body of a
mortal man—something that we can truly feel
approaches the inimitable likeness of One who
was indeed fairer and gentler, but at the same
time mightier and more powerful than all the
sons of men. Even the time-honored scarlet
robe is dispensed with, and in its stead the god-
like form of the noble Sufferer, full of grace, of
gentleness and unassuming dignity, is arrayed
in a garment as white as the purity of Him
who wears it. The head is crowned with thorns,
from every barb of which, buried deeply in the
brow it encircles, trickles a tiny rivulet of blood,
not far enough to disfigure the heavenly beauty
of the face beneath, but enhancing its calm and
patient expression, and imparting to it such a
vivid phase of reality that instinctively our
hands go up to our own foreheads as if to re-
lieve by counter pressure the cruel anguish of
the uncomplaining Martyr whose sublime suf-
fering we behold. The hair and beard of the
Savior are of a sunny auburn, and interweaving
the tresses that fall gracefully upon his shoul-
ders, course streams of deeper scarlet from the
wounded brow above. The eye has a wonder-
ful expression. Full of anguish softened by pa-
tience, and of holy indignation kept down by a 
compassion more divine. There is no weakness
in that look. It is the face of manhood, of
Godhood in distress. No petty anger gleams
in that celestial eye, but from its wondrous
depths the soft rays of pity shed their lustre
like the stars. It is the look of a martyr going
willingly to his grave, the aspect of a King, all-
conscious of the power he could wield, but un-
willing to exercise it for his own preservation or
the punishment of his persecutors. Around
the head plays a delicate halo, so soft and sub-
dued as to be all but unnoticeable, not as if put
there by the painter's hand, but as if emanat-
ing from the face itself, or as if the cloud-
hung skies, already dark with the impending
shadows of Divine displeasure, had rifted 
sufficiently to send forth a single ray of light
on the sorrow-bowed head of the mighty Suffer-
er, and while the dove-like sign of the Holy 
Ghost descended upon him, the voice of the
Eternal Father was again heard whispering:
"This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well 
pleased."
	The Savior, for the moment, is standing
alone, freed by the repellant force of his own
majesty, from the desecrating touch of those
who are thirsting and clamoring for his blood
The broad flight of steps down which He is
slowly wending his way, is besieged on both
sides by the excited populace, frantically eager
to catch a glance at or gloat insultingly over the 
downfall of the despised Nazarene, and only 
restrained from offering violence to his person

[COLUMN 3]
by the protended spears of the Roman soldiery,
engaged in clearing the path towards Calvary.
The balconies and high places on either hand
are also filled with excited faces and swaying
forms, bent forward in attitudes of the in-
tensest interest. At the foot of the stairs are
the huge forms of the malefactors lifting up the
heavy wooden cross which is about to be placed
upon the delicate shoulders of Him who in
that shameful burden bore the sins of a fallen
world. To the left of the picture, a little way
from the bottom of the steps, pressed back by
the spear shafts of the unfeeling soldiers, and
hemmed in by the [------] crowd, appear two
female forms, one of them pale and delicate,
though very beautiful, arrayed in blue and
white, whose sad face, sinking frame, downcast
eyes and sweet and silent expression of sorrow,
touching enough to melt the heart even of a
stone and to fill the eyes of all who behold her
with tears, contrast strangely with the wild
and vehement grief of her companion, who,
throwing up her hands and uttering a despair
ing cry, sinks down upon the ground where
she is in momentary danger of being trodden
under food by the heedless and howling multi-
tude. The first is Mary, the Virgin Mother,
through whose tender soul the prophetic sword
is even now piercing, but who has braved the
agony of the ordeal and dared the danger of
the occasion, to obtain a passing farewell
glimpse of Him who is her soul's idol, the be-
loved Being to whom, but three and thirty years
before, she had given mortal birth. Her com-
panion is Mary Magdalene.
	On all sides gleam the distorted visages of the
rabble, their eyes glistening with hatred and 
their tongues uttering execrations. One can
almost hear the shouts of "Crucify him! Cruci-
fy him!" swelling up from their maddened
throats. Here and there amid the throng may
be picked out faces that suggest for their
owners members of the Apostolic Twelve, sad,
silent and non-committal, the trembling victims
of human hope and fear. More than half way
up the steps, a little in the rear and to the left of
the Savior, stands a group of three persons,
richly appareled in sacerdotal robes, with
haughtiness of mien and malignant triumph
stamped on every feature. In the foremost of 
these we recognize Caiaphas the High Priest,
and in the others, one bent with age and the
other more youthful, his no less cruel and envi-
ous kinsmen and associates-Annas and Alex-
ander.
	But there is one face, in all that motley
throng, upon which it is fearful to gaze.
Second only to that of Christ in power of attrac-
tion, though for a far different reason, and so
hideous of aspect as to send a shudder through
the soul of the spectator, what shall we say,
what can we say of the countenance of Judas,
the accursed! Half hidden by the crowd, yet
plainly conspicuous from the position he holds,
not daring to see or be seen by Him whom his
polluting kiss betrayed, wistful to fly yet power-
less to move, and feeling, notwithstanding his
concealment, that the all-searching eye of the
Master is even now reading the secret thoughts
of his heart, he stands as if riveted to the spot
by the conscious horror of his crime, glaring
gloomily askance from behind the green'sh cowl
which lends additional repulsiveness to his
features, and quailing like a coward at some in-
visible fo[-], endeavoring in vain to quiet the
pangs of conscience which are darting like poi-
soned arrows through his soul. It is indeed a 
fearful sight. The quintessence of horror and
remorse! Perdition personified! Hell in one
human countenance! Awful even to gaze at,
what must it have been to endure! As we
stand spell-bound before that terrible picture of
misery and guilt, our sympathy for the con-


demned Savior is turned into pity for the
wretch who betrayed Him. And well may he
be pitied. No man need suffer hell who looks
and feels as that man does. No wonder the
Son of God could commiserate his murderers,
and invoke the clemency of heaven upon the
ignorant, unthinking rabble who clamored for
his sacrifice. “Father forgive them, for they
know not what they do!" But for Judas the
apostate, the betrayer of his brethren, the shed-
der of innocent blood, the wi ful sinner against
light and knowledge, what remaineth for him?
Alas! nothing, nothing but that “certain fear-
ful looking for of judgment and fiery indigna-
tion” that shall devour the adversary and his
dupes. Go thy way, thou doomed and desolate
soul! Hide thy vi[-]age in the tomb where
sleep forever all hopes of thy redemption.
Thou hast betrayed the innocent blood, thou
hast sold the Lord of life unto death, and writ-
ten in a hand of fire damnation upon every 
lineament of thy existence. Go thy way, thou
scorched and blasted being, but think not to
escape thy visitation, for though thy body turn
to dust, and earth that shall curse thy name
would fain repudiate thy memory, yet thy
spirit shall live on, live on in endless torment,
where the worm that dieth not and the fire
that cannot be quenched shall inflict upon thee
the terrors of that dreadful, but for thee merit-
ed punishment, the end of which no man
knoweth.
 In the dim perspective, near the portals of
the Hall of Judgment, having the statue of
C[-]sar and an in erior view of Jerusalem in the
background, are outlined the forms of Pilate,
the Roman governor, and Herod, the tetrach
of Galilee, who “were made friends together”
that same day, the former, distinguished
through the gathering darkness by his long
red toga, appearing by his attitude and g[-]sture
to disclaim all responsibility for the tragedy
then being enacted—the “judicial murder” of
the sinle[-]s Son of God. There are various
other features, though we have mentioned the
main ones, of this remarkable creation,
which lack of time and limited space pre-
clude from notice, and which, like all the rest,
are only to b[-] appreciated by being seen.
“Christ leaving the Pr[-]torium” is a master-
piece, both of conception and execution, a ser-
mon to whose silent eloquence the dullest ear
could not listen in va[-]n. M. Dor[-] has numer-
ous paintings, all of them excellent, and many
magnificent, but the one we have attempted
to describe is undoubtedly the crowning effort
of his life, eclipsing by its sunlike splendor
the brightest of its rivals, and compelling
them to shine with the subdued radiance of
its [-]atellites.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1
AN OPEN LETTER.

ADDRSSED TO "HOMESPUN" AND ALL THOSE
DEAR SISTERS WHO HAVE SO KINDLY AND
SO SWEETLY SENT IN THEIR NAMES
AGREEABLY TO HER SUGGES-
TION, IN APPRECIATION
OF MY WRITINGS.

MY DEAR SISTERS:
	I hope you have not thought me tardy
and unappreciative in not having ere this
acknowledged the compliment you have all
so kindly and so sweetly paid me. At first
I wanted to give time for the sisters to re-
spond, and then I became very ill through
a severe fall that confined me to the
house for six weeks, and deprived me of
vital energy; but never, no never, did
your kind letters and that beautiful column
of names, become dim on the tablets of

[Column 2]
my heart and brain; but I spent much
time in considering how I could suitably
acknowledge it. At last I have come to
the conclusion, that as it was mooted through
the columns of the EXPONENT that would
be the fittest receptacle for the expression
of my feelings in regard to the sweet
compliments paid to me; and hence for that
purpose I now take pen in hand.
	It was something so entirely unexpected,
and so unique in the design, that for a long
time I stood, as it were, with my finger on my
lips, musing on so rare an event in my hitherto
"sequestered vale of life." My writings will
tell that the thought of what is called fame
is not in my private lexicon. Like the bird
upon the tree, I sing my song, or tell my tale,
and these have often made for me a sunshine
in the shade, and brought to my heart its own
reward; it peoples solitude with beings con-
genial to me, and keeps the heart and brain
from rusting; nay, it polishes both with a
brightness that defies time and age. So you
will see there is considerable self in it after all;
but at last sweet voices break in upon my soli-
tude and words of loving commendations fall
upon mine ear—what do I hear? Listen! I am
told that I have blest—that I have comfort-
ed—that I have elevated and called forth a de-
sire to emulate and do likewise, etcetera.—and
most especially the etcetera! This has caused me
to rejoice, has fanned the dying flame of inspira-
tion and caused me to rise and shake off the
dust that might by illness have gathered on
my brain and the first effort is a few lines to
express my thanks to those who have thrown
over me this genial infllittlee. Again I look
at the host of tributes lying before me and I
read prayers for my health and strength long
to continue, for length of days to continue my
loving work,and then—but no, I must not
repeat more of those sweet words, that I hug
to my heart, for praise from such pure, noble,
generous, unsophisticated spirits, make dia-
monds and rubies and priceless gems ot earth,
appear as dust on the balance to my enrap-
tured, grateful and appreciative soul! I entreat
each dear loving sister to take my words and
apply them especially to herself and in return,
I pray and believe that your sweet prayers
will be heard in the Court of Heaven, and
answered upon my head; and I ask for you, my
sisters, similar blessings upon each one of
those dear names that form a halo of love
around my brow. May we meet, if not on
earth, in the glorious eternities that lie before
us, for I feel there is the tie of love and
congeniality around us, that is not of the earth,
earthy. Again accept my grateful thanks and
more, my rich appreciation of the medal of
honor you have so elegantly presented to me
and believe that living or dying I shall "turn
the leaf to read" your sweet appreciation and
loving words.
	Accept the heart and hand of your apprecia-
tive friend and sister,
				HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 19, 1883.


IN MEMORIAM.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 14, 1883.
Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sarah Haigh,
who departed this life Jan. 29, 1883, aged 56 years.
Whereas an all-wise providence has called from
us by the hand of death, our beloved und respected
sister who was present with us at our last meeting;
therefore
 Resolved That we recognize in the death of our
sister Sarah Haigh the loss of an able, efficient and
worthy teacher and co-laborer in the 4th Ward Re-
lief Society.
 Resolved, That we esteem her past faithful labors
and devotion to duty us worthy the fellowship and
highest respect of he all.
Reaolved, That we condolo and deeply sympathize


with the bereaved family and friends in the loss of a
kind wife, affectionate mother, worthy teacher, and a
good and respected citizen.
Resolved, That these resolutions be Epread upon our
records, and that ft copy be furnished the bereaved
family, also the Woman’s Exponent for publication!
Yours respectfully,
Susan Sperry.
M. E. Taylor, Secretary.
“Dearest Sister, thou hast left us,”
Gone to meet the friends of yore;
Where your kindred and your loved ones
Have preceded you before.
Weep not for your wife, dear Brother,
You will meet her if you’re true
To the cause of truth and virtue,
And your onward course pursue.
And her children all will miss her,
That dear face they loved so well,
And her kindness they’ll remember.
While upon the earth they dwell.
Cecelia Kirk.


R S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
WILLARD CITY PRIMARY.
Proceedings of our last Primary Quarterly
Conference, at Willard, Feb. 10th, 1883.
We had a programme arranged previously,
consisting of songs, recitations and dialogues.
The children, with willing hearts, performed
'the parts assigned them. We held meeting in
the morning, commencing at 10 o’clock by
singing and prayer; and dismissed at 12
o’clock. Some of our little folks reciting
pieces reminded us of the ancient prophecy,
“Out of the mouths of babes shall praises be
uttered unto the Lord.”
We held a party in the afternoon, commenc-
ing at 1 o’clock. Our boys numbered up to
sixty-five, and girls seventy-five, Bishop
George Facer and counselors made the
children a surprise, consisting of plenty of
candy and nuts, which pleased the children
very much. We closed our party at 6 o’clock.
We also held a concert the 17th of
January. The singers were members of the
Primary, and under the direction of Bro.
Lewis D. Edwards, who takes a great delight
in teaching our Primary in the art of singing.
From your co-workers in the Gospel,
Jane Owens, President-
James S. Perry,
David A. Harding,
Secretaries.
TAYLOR, APACHE CO., ARIZONA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
Our Primary held a Fair, Dec. 13th, under
the auspices of the officers of the Association.
The Fair was opened at 10 a.m. by singing
and prayer. There was a general attendance
of the people of Taylor and Snowflake. The
children showed considerable interest in pre-
paring articles for the occasion. There were
two wreaths of wool flowers made by girls of
seven and eleven years old. A nice case and
cross neatly ornamented with wax flowers by
a girl nine years old. One boy seven years
old made and painted a garden rake, two boys
made and painted two baby cradles; their ages
were nine and ten. One boy fourteen years
old made an axe handle, window sash and
broom. There were four pairs of stockings
knit by girls from six to eight years old. One
girl nine years old neatly ornamented a cross
with shells and wool flowers; there was one
wagon neatly made and painted by a boy
twelve years old; a girl twelve years old pieced
and quilted and carded the wool for a quilt,
one girl thirteen years old crocheted a tidy;
There was a great variety of other things;
such as mottoes, comb-cases, ornaments of card
board, Btraw braid, hair and wool wristlets;
crochet and knit lace, four pictures paitned


and framed by a boy thirteen years old, be-
sides many other articles which were very
creditable. There was a great variety of cakes
and pies nicely made by the little girls, and
sold at auction for the benefit of the Associa-
tion. The exercises that were rendered by
the children were worthy of praise. A pleas-
ing feature in the programme was the reading
of the manuscript paper, "Banner of Truth"
edited by a boy thirteen years of age, and it
was very creditable to the children of the As.
sociation. Closed by singing and prayer. Of-
ficers at present are as follows. Emma E.
McCleve, President. Rhoda E. Perkins and
Cornelia Woods, Counselors. Anna Standifird
Sec., Jane Perkins, Treasurer.
					ANNA STANDFIELD,
								Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 151


PRIMARY PARTY AND FAIR.

	On the evening of the 15th of Dec., 1882,
the Primary Association of the 2nd Ward of
Richfield gave their President a delightful
surprise. It was planned entirely by the little
folks, to whom great credit is due for the man-
ner in which it was conducted.
	At the hour appointed every-thing was in
readiness, and a conveyance was sent for the
President and her Counselors, who were great-
ly surprised and pleased.
	After dancing awhile, a bounteous repast
was partaken of, and heartily enjoyed, after
which the President and her Counselors were
each presented with a beautiful shell box by
Bp. Joseph L. Horne, in behalf of the com-
mittee. Dancing was then continued until
12 o'clock, when the company separated, all
feeling amply repaid for their trouble.
	New Year's Day was celebrated by a Fair,
given by the Primary Associations of both
wards, under the management of the Presi-
dents and Counselors of the Associations. It
was held in the Society Hall, doors opened
at 9 o'clock a. m. and closed at 4 o'clock
p.m. A programme was arranged and
songs and recitations were delivered at in-
tervals during the day, by the members of
the Associations. The articles were useful
and ornamental, reflecting great credit on
the little folks, for their industry and in-
genuity. We mention a few: quilts, tidies, em-
broidery, pillow shams and slips, wool and
paper flowers, stockings, a framed picture
of French embroidery, a braided rug, mats
and pin cushions, a straw hat, card board
work and pastry, done by the little girls,
a street car, spinning wheel, roller, nutmeg-
grater, ladders, hay racks, drawings, whips,
halter, nose sack, hammer, a jumping jack,
corn; potatoes and beets, these last made
and raised by the boys.
	CELIA E. BEAN, President,
	MINNIE A. FARNSWORTH, Counselor.
Richfield, Feb. 12th, 1883.


PLEASANT PARTY AT LEHI.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We had a very enjoyable time on the 15th
of Feb., it being the monthly meeting of the
Relief Society. The teachers and members of
the same got up a party in our new meeting
house for President Standring, to welcome her
home; she, with her husband, was called to
St. George to work in the Temple, and they
had been absent five months. She was es-
corted to the Hall by her Counselors, Mrs. M.
P. Thomas and M. J. Powell; arriving there,
what was her surprise to see about seventy-five
of the sisters assembled and the tables set
with the bounties of the earth. When they
were all seated, Bishop T. R. Cutler said he
wished in behalf of the sisters of the Relief


Society to present President Standring with
a black silk dress pattern and trimmings, as
a token of love and respect which they felt
towards her and appreciation of her labors
amongst them. After dinner President Stand-
ring spoke a short time, expressing her sur-
prise and returning thanks for the good will
which had been manifested towards her by the
sisters, also gave a short account of her labors
in the Temple, and how she had enjoyed them.
Bros. Winn, Anderson, Yates, Bishop T. R.
Cutler and Mrs. M. P. Thomas made some ex-
cellent remarks. Meeting was dismissed by
Bro. Anderson, and all went home feeling that
it had indeed been a feast of fat things, both
spiritually and socially, and one that will not
soon be forgotten by those who attended.
	M. A. STANDRING, Secretary, R. S., Lehi.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS.
LETTER TO MRS. H. M. WHITNEY.
			Kirtland, Ohio, Jan. 28th, 1883.
	My dear Helen: *  *  *  It is not likely
you have heard of the great change that
has come to our household. For the first time
“the mystic gate” has opened for one of our
number to enter the unknown realm, and my
dear mother* has passed on ’before us. How
can I tell you of the glorious change? We
had not expected it for months yet; I saw for
some three or four days that she was sicker
than usual.  *  *  I say it was a “glorious”
change! She had been up and we were just lay-
ing her down, and she said, “lay my head this
way,” while the pillows were being arranged
we saw the expression of pain and suffering
and unrest, she had worn for so many years,
changed to one of sweet calmness and repose.
There was simply a cessation of breathing, 
without a gasp or motion. Oh, in that mo-
ment, when I saw her dear life going out!
*  *  How I wish you could have seen here.
She looked more like the mother of long ago
than she had for years; she longed, oh, so 
much, for this release; and we can not wish
her back, for we believe she is “better now,”
as I feel is true of all the countless dead.
It was her 79th birthday and it was Sabbath
evening—the hour of retiring to rest. We
kept her till Thursday.  *  * * She always
expressed a fear of being buried alive. I
have felt as though her death should be pub-
lished in the papers there, as there are so
many scattered through Utah who once knew
her here. I do not know where to address
Adelia and many others. There were three
of her six children here at the burial, but I
was the only child who had the privilege
of witnessing her last moments. Oh, I am so
glad and grateful that I was here! It was a
beautiful death-scene, that would have to be
seen to be realized. But, alas, my dear Helen,
the thought is with me that of her present
condition we may know nothing; I feel the
poverty of the situation, and could wish my-
self as rich in faith as you are. *  *  Will
I ever attain to it?  *  *  You are too kind
and thoughtful of me to send papers so often.
*  *  I  thank you and appreciate your
kindness. Was glad to see you were going to
put in pamphlet form what you know of the
introduction of Polygamy. I would like one
of them. * * Had you heard that the
April Conference of the Re-organized Church
was to be held in the Temple here? They
have commenced to repair and restore it; but
where are those who once thronged its courts?
	Father is past 85, but is very well for one
of his age. Eveline lives in Iowa, thinks of
coming to see us, but her health is very poor.
Her husband is President of the Bank at
Mapleton. Eber is in Florida, Milton in
	*Charlotte E. Bond.

[Column 2]
Michigan, and Myron in Boston.  *  * Did
you know that a son and grandson of Brigham
Young called on us last summer? The grand-
son had just graduated at West Point.  * *
Don't you think Brigham's son looks ever so
much like his father? I wish I could see him
again; I "fell (woman like) in love" with
him. You were with me when mother was
baptised by Brigham Young at the back of 
your house in Mendon. Do you remember it?
How is Bates Nobles? Do you ever see him?
Are you ever coming East? When is your
son Orson coming home? I hope you will
write me when you can and as oft. I am
very poorly much of the time, but yet do a
great deal of work.
				Yours with love,
							M. E. BOND.


A FEW OF MY VIEWS.

	I believe that every kind and charitable act
that is wrought by the spirit and influence of
divine grace, or through love and respect
to the word of God, the same will be recognized
and approbated of God in calls where suffering
humanity required those acts, whether the sup-
plicant be saint or sinner, although I think the
latter has sometimes been vainly snbstituted as
a foundation for objection and excuses for neg-
lect even in circumstances of special need; but
this I consider is no model for us who profess
to be the disciples and followers of Jesus
Christ, for we do not acquire our virtue or
system of practice, precepts and rules through
the wicked influence where there is no founda-
tion; but we have better rules which teach us
to love our enemies, and I believe that gospel
charity, whether it be of words or deeds, being
administered in the spirit of loving kindness,
will, with God's help, result in much good, and
if the effect does not immediately appear, the
administration may, after many days, be
brought to remembrance; but let faith and
works be combined in all our acts of kindness,
that they may be approved of God and attend-
ed with divine blessing; then we shall see the
afflicted rejoice, and if we labor for righteous-
ness sake, our reward is sure. Then finally,
let us strive with all diligence and pray ear-
nestly, that our hearts become sanctified to God,
pure and holy, that all we do may be done
with an eye to His glory, for by our works we
shall be judged. I believe that in this great
and last dispensation of the fullness of times,
there will be much required of the people of
God, both to do and endure, and without the
whole armor of godliness, we shall be found
wanting. I feel for one that I have much to
do and much to learn before I shall be able to
accomplish, altogether, a good purpose in this
point of view, but by the grace of God I do
not feel at all discouraged, for the gospel truly
grows brighter to me, and I am resolved to
press toward the mark of the high calling,
closely adhering to my abiding motto, Faith,
Hope and Perseverance. I believe there is no
opposite power that will be able to stay our
onward progress unto victory, that we may en-
joy an eternal exaltation in the kingdom of our
Father, is my ardent hope and prayer,
					SARAH ANN REEVES.
	Centreville.


THE FASHIONS OF THIS WORLD
WILL PASS AWAY.

	There has been nothing of late said upon
this subject, although the extreme of fashion
is carried out by this people called the Latter-
day Saints; and in my way of thinking, death
is in its path. Mothers in Israel, I will make
an appeal to your reason: Do you not know
that you are sowing the seeds of dissolution in


[Column 1]
your little daughters by making their dresses
too short and narrow to keep them warm, and
exposing them to the cold? Would you rather
follow in the vortex of fashion than have a
healthy, rosy-cheeked child, full of life and
glee? Shall we be ever learning and never be
able to come to a knowledge of the truth?
	Where should the spirit of discernment and
wisdom be found if not in the mothers of Lat-
ter-day Saint children? Why are we blind
and ignorant? And why will we follow in the
world's path to fashion? Do we not compre-
hend truth enough to lead to common sense
practices, and dress our children according to
what is for their good, and what is right? But
no, corsets must be put on our little girls to
teach them to lace their bodies to grow un-
natural. If we expect to have the spirit taber-
nacled in the body, we ought to take a course
to make its house of clay warm and tenantable,
and also comfortable, to prepare it for future
usefulness and longevity; and take a course to
better the condition of the generation in which
we live. Mothers, wives of men who hold the
keys to unlock the mysteries of eternity, why
do we not comprehend the purposes of God
concerning us, that our posterity should grow
up as calves of the stall, perfectly developed,
fit subjects to carry out the great designs of
our Heavenly Father, to bring forth those
noble spirits reserved to hold the holy Priest-
hood. In consideration of these things should
we be carried away by the fashions of a
wicked world? It seems as though every thing
that is made to put on the body is made for
its destruction; shoes have to be made to the
fashion, the heel not set where it should be,
nor wide enough to stand on; the ankle is
twisted around, and sometimes almost dislocat-
ed; then another folly is invented, making
shoe tops so high, and lacing up the feet so
tight there is no chance for circulation or the
air to get to the feet, which is quite necessary
for health; this is Chinese fashion, to bind
up the feet, do we want to be stunted like
them? I will change the old maxim; give the
feet plently of air and keep them dry, and the
head from cold, a cold generally commences
in the head first, and then goes to the lungs.
	Teething children take cold from too much
cold air passing into their ears, causing many
serious complaints. Mothers, put a thin cap
on their heads until their heads are covered
with sufficient hair, and line their bibs with
flannel when they drool; and change often that
their vitals do not get chilled; do not put shoes
on them but socks with soles; by observing
these rules in dress you may save your child
pain and suffering. Dress your little girls
with waists, and let the weight be upon their
shoulders and not on the hips, which is injuri-
ous; dress your bodies for comfort, and to
promote health.
	Let us reason a little on the way we dress
our feet; boots for men, and high shoes for
women are very unhealthy; they confine stag-
nated air and dampness; slippers are best for
the house, with a thick, warm stocking, but as
men and boys have to be in the wet it shrinks
the leather; there should be elastic on the
top of the instep, to give more room to the
foot, and make it easier to pull on and get off.
	And you shoemakers, do, I beseech you,
put an inside sole in boots and shoes to cover
up those persecutors, nails and pegs. In win-
ter they are cold, and in summer, hot and very
uncomfortable to walk on all day. My little
grandson told me to look at his foot as he
held it up, his boot hurt him so bad he had ot
take it off, there was quite a sore place on the
bottom of his foot where a nail had run into
it. He said "it hurt him," I did not wonder
that it did when I felt into his boot, for such
a rough made thing to put on those little
tender feet, made me feel sorry, and I almost
wished that I were a shoemaker. I thought I

[Column 2]
would put some leather between the nails
and the foot, instead of on the top where it
did no good. The highest recommendation
for any trade, is to make an article well for
looks, ease, and comfort. If we support trade,
why not say how things should be made, in-
dependent of fashion?		M. A. M. P.


152	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE FIRST FEMALE NOVELIST.—We hard-
ly read of a single authoress during the
Middle Ages. In those days female educa-
tion was almost entirely neglected, except
in rare instances. If women possessed talent,
they were compelled to hide it. No
female novelist worthy of the name ap-
peared in England until the reign of George
III. The lady who first had the courage
to brave public opinion was Frances Burney,
the friend of Garrick and Dr. Johnson.
Miss Burney remained unmarried until she
was nearly forty years of age. Romance is
then supposed to exercise a less dominant
power, but she, nevertheless, had the impru-
dence to espouse Monsieur d’Arblay, a
French refugee, whose income consisted only
of a precarious annuity of £100. The
marriage however, proved a very happy one.
Macaulay describes Monsieur as an "honorable
and amiable man, with a handsome person,
frank, soldier-like manners, and some taste for
letters." The pair did not suffer from pov-
erty; the wife became the bread winner; and
not very long after her marriage her third
novel, "Camilla," was published, by which
she is said to have realized over 3,000
guineas.—Home Journal.


TRUE MANLINESS.—Every young man con-
siders it high praise to be called a "manly
fellow;" and yet how many false ideas
there are of manliness?
	Physical strength is not the test. Samson
was endowed with tremendous bodily powers.
He was a grand specimen of humanity. See
him rending the lion as he would a kid,
or carrying away the gates of Gaza! But
he was a weak creature after all, unable
to resist the wiles of an artful woman.
	Great intellect is not the test of true
manhood. Some of the most intellectual
men who have ever lived were not manly.
Lord Francis Bacon was a prodigy of in-
tellect. The sciences sat at his feet, extolling
him as their benefactor; yet we see him led
down Tower Hill, a prisoner, for swindling.
	Fast living is not true manliness. Some
men think that to strut, and puff, and
swear is to be manly. To some the es-
sentials of manliness are to "toss off their
glass like a man," "spend money freely
like a man," "smoke like a man," "drive
a fast horse like a man," forgetting that
virtue is true manliness. Temperance,
chastity truthfulness, fortitude, and benevo-
lence are the characteristics and essential,
of manliness.
	To be manly is to be honest, generous,
brave, noble and pure in speech and life.
The highest form of manliness is godliness.
Some one has said, "an honest man is the
noblest work of God," but the man who is
honest toward God and toward his fellow-
man—in short a Christian man—is the
noblest work of God.—John B. Gough


"So you are going to keep a school?” said
a young lady to her maid aunt. “Well, for
my part, sooner than do that I would marry a
widower with nine children.” “I would prefer
that myself,” was  the quiet reply, “but where
is the widower?”


MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
Office and residence, 11th Ward, 7 blocks east
of the Deseret National Bank, and half a
block north, west side of the street.
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.

KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND 'THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Limeys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE !
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN's EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
