VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1882.	NO. 11.


A RESPONSE.

BY HANNA T. KING.

I feel I must answer your beautiful lines
They come like the sunshine in winterly times
They come with a warmth, and a genuine ring,
That is sound—and such ever sweet music doth bring.
You only speak truth, I am all you portray,
And to you I spoke truth in the very same way;
I know you've a gift that no teacher has given
I know 'tis a gift from the Chancery of Heaven—
Oh! prize it! to you it will prove such a boon—
You'd not change for a gold mine—no not very soon;
Nor the wealth of a Rothschild, the Jew of the Kings!
By which you could purchase terrestrial things;
In extasy, No the fond poet exclaims,
No ermine—no di’monds, or jewel-linked chains
Could buy from my brain, nor indeed from my heart,
The jewel I hold of my soul a rich part—
My Lyre! my Lyre, gives oceans of wealth
I lave in its waters, abounding in health!
I drink of its streams fresh from Helicon's fount—
And into the regions of poesy mount
Parnassus I climb—from its glorious hight,
Earth recedes from my vision in mystical flight.
I'm away from the world, and its "Vanity Fair,"
Its tinsel, its emptiness—even its glare!
All these throw no charm o'er my heart or my brain,
On Pegasus mounted, with full scope of rein.
I pass into regions of gorgeous delight,
Where day is eternal, with sunshine all bright;
Is this not a boon no mortal can give?
Is this not a gift for the life we now live?
Yes, yes! 'tis a prism that gilds all we see,
A rainbow that arches the Heavens for me.

And will you not listen? and will you not say,
Friend give me thy hand—I am one in thy lay?
Yes poets are counterpart, twin in their soul,
And they passively bow to the mystic control;
And to Heaven they offer the prayer of the heart—
From Thy Lyre, Thy gift, may we two never part.
	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
THE PLEASURES OF MEMORY.

	Mental Philosophists describe memory as
that form of mental activity in which the
mind's former perceptions and sensations are
represented in thought. The external objects
are no longer present—the original sensations
and perceptions have vanished—but by the
mind's own power are reproduced in thought,
giving as it were, a representation or image of
the original.
	By memory's aid we may revel in the beau-
ties of the past; forgetting many of its shadows,
we see standing out in bold relief only the
bright pictures that were painted in the "sweet
long ago," and hung in the gallery of departed
years. As our mental eye glances down the
vista of years, we see ourselves in the Spring-
time of life and we think we are children
again, gamboling upon the common, playing
"hide-and seek" in the woods, feeding the
ducks, driving the cows, or traversing the
mountain dell, or scaling the hill-side in search
of modest and regal flowers; loving perhaps,
best of all, the fragrant wild-wood roses. One
by one we recall the vicissitudes of our
life, and the fairy haunts of those long lost
hours, are far more fresh and green than those
of the present, for they are mellowed by the
shades of time, the ruggedness is erased, and
only the beautiful remains.
	Memory is the source of some of the purest
pleasures of life. The present, however joyous,

[Column 2]
is fleeting and evanescent. Former hours are
past, apparently lost, but not gone for we live
them over again in memory; they are en-
shrouded in the beautiful sepulcher of the past,
from which we can draw aside the misty veil,
and rest us awhile from the burdens of the
present. Whatever shadows cross the pathway
of to-day; whatever storms assail our barque,
the wounded spirit exhibiting its concentric
power, recoils within its inner chambers, and
there under the mild magic of the reflected
light of other years, is soothed and strengthened
for the battle of life.
	Go view the captive slave who has been
crushed until his high heroic spirit bleeds—
even with him memory at times, "bursts the
twilight of the mind," and her sweet delusions
soothe his sinking soul. The bondsman dreams
of the hours when he was free—again he revels
in the cool breeze and musky evenings of an
Eastern home, and imagines he again "quaffs
the palms rich nectar." Lucile who had
learned the hard sad lessons of sacrifice and
resignation, found comfort in her dreams of the
splendid Orient where her earlier hours had
been spent, and where she had known nothing
of life's bitter teachings.
	In the aged and blind the pleasurers of mem-
ory reach their zenith. The aged matron as
she nods by the hearth, recalls the days of her
girlhood—the dance, the song, the silvery
sleigh-bells, the lively serenades, the old tryst-
ing places, and above all, that day of days when
as a blushing bride she was lead to the marriage
altar. The lonely old veteran looks back to
the time when bright children clustered around
his knee, and he dwells again in the sunshine
of a happy home.

"But not till time has calmed the rugged breast,
Are these fond dreams of happiness confessed
Not till the raging winds forget to rave
Is heaven's sweet smile reflected on the wave."

	Happy is the world blest with the ceaseless
sunshine of memory. By its aid we may
choose our pathway, and traverse again the
most pleasant walks of life. It is the triumph
over despair—the magic ring that connects and
holds fast all the noble records of a well spent
life.									ZOE.


[Column 1]﻿
LETTERS TO THE CONVENTION.

	The following, among a large number of
letters received, were read in convention.

LETTER FROM MRS. E. C. STANTON.

TOULOUSE, France, Sept. 1, 1882.

To the National Woman's Suffrage Association
	in convention assembled:

	DEAR FRIENDS—People never appreciate
the magnitude and importance of any step in
progress at the time it is taken, nor the full
moral worth of those characters who inspire it,
hence it will be in keeping with the whole his-
tory of reform from the beginning of woman's
enfranchisement if in Nebraska it should to
many minds seem puerile and premature, and
its advocates fanatical and unreasonable.
Nevertheless, the proposition speaks for itself.
A constitutional amendment to crown one half
the people of a great state with all their civil
and political rights, is the most vital question
the citizens of Nebraska have ever been called

[Column 2]
on to consider, and the fact cannot be gain-
sayed that some of the purest and ablest women
America can boast are now in the state advo-
cating the measure.
	For the last two months I have been assisting
my son in the compilation of a work soon to
be published in America, under the title of
"Woman in Europe," in which distinguished
women in different nations have each con-
tributed a sketch of the progress made in their
condition in the various counties. One inter-
esting and significant fact, as shown in this
work is that in the very years we began to
agitate the question of equal rights there was
a simultaneous movement by women for various
privileges, industrial, social, educational, civil
and political, throughout the civilized world.
And this without the slightest concert of action
or knowledge of each other's existence, show-
ing that the time had come in the natural evolu-
tion of the species, in the order of human devel-
opment, for woman to assert her rights and de-
mand the recognition of the feminine element
in all the vital interests of life.
	To battle against the palpable fact in philos-
ophy, and the accumulated facts in achievement
that can be seen on all sides in woman's work
for the last forty years, from slavery to equal-
ity, is as vain as to battle against the law of
gravitation.
	We shall as surely reach the goal we pro-
posed when we started, as that the rich prai-
ries of Nebraska will ere long feed and educate
millions of brave men and women, gathering
there from every nation on the globe.
	Every consideration for the improvement of
your home life, for the morality of your towns
and cities, for the elevation of your schools and
colleges and for the loftiest motives of patriot-
ism, should move you, men of Nebraska, to
vote for this amendment. Gutton in his great
work on Heredity says: "We are in crying
want to a greater fund of ability in all stations
in life, for neither the classes of statesmen,
philosophers, artisans nor laborers, are up to
the modern complexity of their several profes-
sions. An extended civilization like ours com-
prises more interests than the ordinary states-
men, or philosophers of our race are capable of
dealing with, and it exacts more intelligent
work than our ordinary artisans and laborers
are capable of performing. Our race is over-
weighted and appears likely to be drudged into
degeneracy by demands that exceed its powers.
If its average ability were raised a grade or
two, our new classes would conduct the complex
affairs of the state at home and abroad as easily
as our best business men now do their own
private trades and professions. The needs of
centralization communication and culture,
call for more brains and mental stamina than
the average of our race possess."
	Does it need a prophet to tell us where to
begin? Does not the physical and intellectual
condition of the women of a nation decide
capacity and power of the men? If we would
give our sons the help and inspiration of
women's thought and interest in the complex
questions of our generation, we must first give
her the power that political responsibility se-
cures. With the ballot in her own right hand,
she would feel a new sense of dignity, and com-
mand among men a respect they have never
felt before. Nebraska now has the opportunity
of making this grand experiement, of securing
justice, liberty, equality for the first time in
the world's history, to woman, and through her


education and enfranchisement, of lifting man
to that higher plane of thought, where he may
be able wisely to meet all the emergencies of
the period in which he is now called on to act.
Let every man in Nebraska now do his duty
that when the sun goes down on the 8th of No-
vember, the glad news may be sent round the
world, that at last one state in the American
Republic has fully accorded the sacred right of
self government to all her citizens, black and
white, men and women. With sincere hope
for this victory.
		Cordially yours,
			ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
“I have not got over the influenza yet. It
has injured my memory, but it is coming back
to me.  * * *  I seem to have favor in the
eyes of the people, and I hope before my
Father in heaven. It is my meat and my
drink to do his will. * * * *  I hope
soon to get through with the business on
hand.”
 From another letter dated “New York, Sept.
3d.” We learned that they reached there on
the 21st, where they had spent nearly two
weeks—Father had been very sick, and was
quite feeble, and had lost much flesh. He said,
“We intend to leave on the morrow, if the
Lord will, for Boston. Our Conference will
be held there on Saturday and Sunday—when
that is over, I shall make my way home as soon
possible. I shall go down through the state to
see our friends and kindred. I suppose this
will please you, my dear wife, but it will be no
pleasure for me to go through that country
without you; for you and my dear children
circumscribe all other things on earth. The
more I see of the world, the less I care for it.
It is now more than a month since I have had
a line from you. I have written once in eight
or ten days since I left you; but you have more
to press your dear body and mind, and I know
it is a task to get along with your work, and to
see to the children—how I would prize it to be
with you to help bear your burthens. I will
come as soon as possible, so keep up good cour-
age. * * * *
 “I received a letter from Wm. Murray since
I came here—said he should be in Buffalo on
the 1st, day of Sept; on his way to Nauvoo—
They desired me to meet them there, for they
had a seat reserved for me; but I expect they
will get there before I do. If so tell William
he may build on that lot by Sister Pitkins, if
he has a mind to and it will all be right."
	Mother received another letter from him,
written at Boston on the 23d, of Sept. He
wrote, “I have received your kind letter writ-
ten on the first of August. We left New York
on the 4th. On the 6th, Elder B. Young and
myself, went to Salem, and on the 18th re-
turned to Boston—held our Conference on the
9th. Eight of the Twelve were present. What
misery there is in this world; I think we are
the best off of any others that I have seen in
my travels, I long to see you and the children.
I hold you precious in the sight of God, but I
can leave you for the Gospel’s sake, for my
soul is bound up in the cause of Christ. I
wish to seek the kingdom of heaven and its
righteousness, for I want all things added to
me here in this world, so that I can be crowned
in the fulness of glory in the Celestial world.
These I know are your feelings, for you do not
wish me to come behind in any thing that will
exalt us in the kingdom of heaven. I feel as
though we should be united in whatever we
may be lead to do. You have been proven and
tested, for you have been through the fire. I
feel that we are one. I know of none who are
more be than Heber and Vilate.

[Column 2]
	"I hope Sarah is feeling well, and that I
shall find you all well in body and in spirit.
I did think that I would go and see your kin-
dred, but I have changed my mind, and shall
soon return to my family and my brethren and
sisters, whom I love with my whole heart.
“I have been blessed in temporal things
since I came here to Boston—have sold a piece
of land; have got some cash for the Nauvoo
House, and a little for the Temple. It is hard
times to do much. The Saints are coming up
themselves and will fetch their money. Elder
George A. Smith and myself intend to leave
here tomorrow for New York, if the Lord will,
on my way home, will have to stop there one
or two days, then a few days in Philadelphia
and Pittsburg, and also in Cincinnatti. I will
now bid you adieu for a little season.”
They arrived home in safety in the latter
part of October, finding us all well. In the
mean time my Uncle William Murray had ar-
rived, with his family at Nauvoo; which was a
great source of joy to both brother and sister,
whose happiness for a time seemed complete.
He was the only one that ever received the
Gospel on either side, and when the welcome
tidings came, that he had listened to the sound
of the Gospel and obeyed it, my mother could
hardly believe it, and was almost overcome
with joy. Like every true Saint, the moment
he received the true Gospel, he could not con-
tent himself to remain with unbelievers. The
people of God and those of the world are in
opposition to each other. Christ has no fellow-
ship with Belial.
How gross is the darkness that covers the
minds of the people who are fighting against
the principles of salvation. No one actuated
by the Spirit of God would do this or speak
against his servants, but would be attended by
the Holy Ghost, which would give them faith,
and reveal to them the power of God unto sal-
vation; but which without faith, is impossible.
We read that “the just shall live by faith,” and
that “faith without works is dead.” We can
understand the things of God only by the Spirit
and power of God. The revelations of Joseph
Smith can never save others, unless they re-
ceive revelation from heaven, of their truth,
and they must seek for it in order to obtain it.
Those who are too careless and slothful to read
or to “search and believe in me, not in man,”
as Jesus said for, “who leans on him leans on a
broken reed,” will be left as many others have
to stumble even at noon-day. The sorrows and
privations and all the persecutions endured by
the Saints of God are light, when compared
with the punishment of a guilty conscience and
this is the punishment that awaits, not only
those who persecute his people, but the ones
who are too indolent to make inquiries for them-
selves, or to forego the momentary and fleeting
pleasures of to-day, in the vain hope of gaining
a little worldly pomp and praise. Here, we
are as strangers in a strange land, and those
who are too proud or obstinate to look up and
read the directions so plainly written upon the
Guide Board, which has been set by a Father’s
loving hand, that his children may not miss
the track and be lost in the darkness; or refuse
to listen to his servants who are crying, “Come
out of her my people, and be not partakers of
her sins, that ye receive not of her plagues,”
because He in his wisdom has chosen the meek
of the earth who will do his bidding, being
poor and unpopular in the world, renounce
them as imposters, persecute and destroy them,
will see their mistake when too late to retrace
their steps and will have to pass through an-
other probation.
			To be Continued.


Ladies, be sure and attend the Mass Meeting
at the Theatre, Saturday evening, Nov. 4, and
don’t forget to vote on Tuesday, Nov. 7, for the
People's Delegate.


HOMESPUN TALKS TO MRS. SCOTT.

MRS. EMILY SCOTT:
	DEAR MADAM:—Although very little of the
wisdom of Phillip is in my humble pen, I want
to gratify myself by joining those "kind
friends" who have written to you through the
EXPONENT.
	Do you know, (I am going to commence
with a confession ) years ago my mental eyes
were just about as weak, and as easily blurred
as you confess yours to be, by these seeming
dark places in Mormonism.
	You allude to the second chapter of Jacob
in the Book of Mormon. How far did you
read before your feet fell into the mnd ? Just
stopped where I did in my first reading, I've
no doubt, before the closing words of the verse,
viz:
	"For if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts, raise
up seed unto me, I will command my people,
otherwise they shall hearken unto these things."
That's just it. Only to raise a righteous and
numerous seed for the fulfilling of his great
latter-day purposes has the Lord God com-
manded plurality of wives.
	Dear lady, your joyous spirits are right and
good to see. But, you must surely know, if
you are so well acquainted with the Scriptures,
that the God of Abraham, of Moses, and of the
Israelites, is a grave Judge dealing out venge-
ance to those,who would destroy his priesthood.
	You cannot quarrel with the great eternal
laws, by which this world is, was and will be.
Christ's passage to his Father's house was one
of cruel suffering.
	To be sure, our faith is a happy one. Shall
I tell you what my faith is to me?
	It is a bright lovely, constant presence.
When I awake, "Oh God," I say "help me to
sew,to sweep, to bake, to clean, to make my fam-
ily cheerful with my words and works; to fill
in and around about, every corner of my little
home with light and peace." When I go to
rest at night God receives my fervent gratitude
for all the joy we have felt.
	But have you not lived long enough to know
sickness, death, wrong, and wickedness are
seeking always to enter our homes, especially
our Mormon homes. What then ? Does not
joyous laughter and the song of birds turn to
pain and quiet woe ? And then it is, our God
gives peace, comfort, and spiritual consolation.
The flowers are not always blooming, the woods
are not always filled with glad melody. But
winter comes with heavy clouds and shrieking
storms. Is your shelter sure ?
	You will pardon me, I am sure if I say to
you frankly, I think you are trying to get the
time honored cart in front of the horse. There
is one thing everyone must do,to know whether
this work is true or false, of God or of man:
Go to God himself and with an earnest child-
like desire for a testimony of its truth. If this
testimony comes, I can not think your eyes
will ever again bedimmed. I asked God that
the testimony of its truth might come to me as
a gentle reasoning voice; That when these
dangerous mud-holes came before me, the light
of clearn reason might shine out, guiding me
safely to the dry land. It came!
	Your faith should not be fastened to texts.
But nailed to every truth, every lovely thought
or word and every happy joyous influence; for
"Mormonism" reaches out and embraces all
these, and in its rays you can bask with delight
as does a child on a bright summer's day.
	You can hardly receive the divine assurance
of the truth of plurality in your soul, although
you might perhaps, see its physiological reason-
ablness, until the preparatory light had flooded
you; and made you full of this Gospel.
	God and your own heart are the only means
by which you can learn the truth of this or any
other religion.
		Yours Sincerely.		HOMESPUN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 83


PATRIOT MOTHERS.

My mother's mother? 'round the hearth
	Gathered her children ten,
Three were fair young daughters,
	Seven were boys and men;
And lovelier than all the rest,
The baby boy upon her breast.

"I'm raising sons for my country."
	Thus answered she with pride,
The guest who smiling viewed
	The groups on either side,
Words filled with meaning, for in her
Martyr and patriot blended were.

Above the wide hearth hung the arms
	By honored grandsires borne,
Upon the great oak table
	The Bible old and worn;
Holding the records of their dead,
And words of God, they daily read.

Upon one side, her name she traced
	Back to that pilgrim band,
Who freedom's altar built,
	on Plymonth's barren sand;
Whence ev'ry creed's free prayer should rise
As mingled incense to the skits.

And on the other—God inspired
	A mighty chief to give
His one child to the faith
	Of Christ, therein to live,
And then in marriage, thus to prove
The Red man's friendship and his love.

Souls of the old world and the new!
	The disciplined, the wild,
Blended, gave to the world
	America's own child,
And an eternal title won
For every daughter, every son.

"Sons for her country." Aye her words
	Prophetic proved to be;
Four sons went forth, and two
	Fell, ere the slaves were free;
Her pride—no less than Spartan brave's—
Though weeping o'er her soliders' graves.

Her own loved country! Yet to-day,
	In Utah's valleys wide,
Her own descendants' claims
	Are (for their faith) denied;
But valid titles won by birth,
Are lasting as our mother earth.

And here are women just as grand,
	As pure, as sweet, and true,
Bearing on in faith a work
	For God and country too,
One to live through life, or die on,
And they'er raising sons for Zion.

Sons for Zion! In that kingdom
	None shall mourn its laws,
Nor the weak and lowly
	Plead in vain their cause;
Then, the mothers' pride will be,
Sons for God and Liberty.

				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHEZON.
S. L. City, Oct. 23d, 1882.


A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
			-----------
		       Continued.
	It is imposible in a sketch of this kind so
briefly written, to bring in all the points one
would like, and make them perfectly clear,
especially in the life of a woman who has in
connection with a large family, and many do-
mestic interests, also occupied public positions
that are rather uncommon for woman, and
would once have been considered incompatible
with domestic felicity. Mrs. Horne has four
sons and six daughters living, of their number
eight are married and have families of their
own; two daughters Mattie and Clara are still
at home; they are both superior girls in many
respects, though differing just enough to make
a wider sphere of usefulness in the home. Miss
Mattie the elder of the two, has a rather peculiar
history for so young a woman. Ever since the
first organization of the Y. L. M. I. A., she has
moved forward as a genuine helper in the work
of mutual improvement and has held several
positions of honor at different times. In June
1879, when a central organization was effected,
consolidating all these Associations, the Pres-
ident of the organization, Mrs. E. S. Taylor
chose Miss Horne for a Counselor, and she
certainly has magnified the office and calling
by diligent and successful labors in the interest
of the young ladies of Zion. She has attended
Conferences in several Stakes of Zion and
spoken before large assemblies, both in the
country towns and in the Conferences held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. There is no
other woman as young as Miss Mattie, who
has taken hold of the work and done so much
public duty, of a religious character; she is a
diligent worker in the Primary Association in
her own Ward and also in the Sunday School,
as well as the Y. L. M. I. A., filling places of
honor and trust.
 When the WOMAN'S EXPONENT was first
published Miss Mattie was the first girl to go
into the printing office and learn the type set-
ting, and as she excels in every pursuit she
undertakes, she has made a complete success of
this useful and suitable employment for girls.
 Miss Clara Horne the youngest of Mrs.
Horne's family is more domestic in her tastes,
and is really the housewife attending not only
to the supervision but the details of household
work, planning and executing systematically.
She is also an accomplished needle-woman and
very gifted spiritually; and an active worker in
the Improvement Associations.
	During the last five years Mrs. Horne has
devoted a large portion of her time, one might
say nearly all, to public service in the interest
of the several organizations, and therefore it is
a great blessing to have daughters so capable
of filling mother’s place in the home. In Pri-
mary meetings and in political conventions
and on committees Mrs. Horne is active and
efficient, so self-possessed that she can speak at
any time in public if called upon, without the
preparation that many women would require.
She was elected a delegate from Salt Lake Co.
to the Territorial Convention held in this City
commencing Oct. 9. And on Thursday even-
ing October 12 being called upou to make a
speech, made her first attempt before a conven-
tion, composed almost entirely of men ( only
one woman delegate besides herself) who were
in the habit of speaking publicly on all sub-
jects. But with her usual determination she
maintained the dignity of her position. We
give a synopsis here, as an item worthy to be
recorded in her history, and it has also a bear-
ing upon the advancement of the women of the
Territory.
		SPEECH OF MRS. HORNE.
	"Mr. President, this is the first time that I
have attempted to address a public assembly of
a political character, therefore you will please
pardon me if I feel a little timidity on this oc-
casion. I believe that women should become
acquainted with political questions as well as
men, because I think they should be intelligent
and acquire knowledge on all subjects that per-
tain to the welfare of the human family; they
are citizens and should learn the duties and
responsibilities of citizens. I am proud and
thankful that we have men in Utah who are so
liberal as to erect a platform high enough and
broad enough for woman to stand upon and
enjoy political privileges, and I do not think
any one is liberal who tries to deprive her of
them.  I am not a native born citizen, but have
been in this country over forty years. I was
driven from my  home with the Saints in Mis-
souri and Illinois. They were driven simply,
because they were Latter-day Saints, and it is
in the same spirit of religious bigotry that at-
tacks are made upon them in other ways at
the present time. Our enemies tell us that we
must not bring religion into our politics. But
I think if we brought more religion into our
politics it would be better for the people; and
if there had been more religion among con-
gressmen and their tenets had been better
cultivated they would not have passed a law
to oppress a religious body of people. I
believe in true liberty for men and women and
do not consider it should be infringed upon by
any one. I think women should be afforded
every opportunity to become intelligent. I am
glad that women are recognized in this con-
vention, and though unjust measures have been
taken to disfranchise many of them, they will
be found on the side of truth and righteousness
and will do all in their power to assist in the
work of freedom. I know the cause in which
we are engaged is right and that in the end it
will come off victorious.”
 Mrs. Horne was one of the Committee ap-
pointed to wait upon the delegate nominated
at the Convention,and inform him of the honor
conferred upon him. She was also chosen a
member of the Territorial Central Committee
of the People's Party.
				To be Continued.


A WORD TO GIRLS.

	All the hope for the dress question, and for
every other that affects the interest, happiness,
and future well being of the sex, lies in the
young women—the good, earnest, conscientious
and thoughtful girls who wish to do their whole
duty, who will do it when they know what it
is, whose feet tread the earth, but whose eyes
are lifted to the stars, hoping for a token of the
work they have to perform. Would that some
angel might appear and show them that hon-
esty, healthfulness, modesty, and suitability in
their dress is the first step in progressive woman-
hood, and that the rest can hardly be taken
without it. It is of little use appealing to older
women in this matter—they are too much en-
grossed, too much in the "swim," care too much
or too little about the subject-to lend themselves
to any determined effort. But the educated, re-
fined girls, who people our high schools and
colleges, who have obtained glimpses of a whole
arena of possibilities closed to their mothers,
and who know that the strength which is spent
in "making over" that which is good, in an-
ious fears regarding the length of sleeves, the
width of skirts, and the size of buttons, cannot
be put into that which will be permanently
healthful and beneficial.
	Wherever there is a community of girls, in
schools, colleges, orelsewhere, they should or-
ganize a Ruskin Society, the special object of
which should be to foster among them some well
defined ideas and sound principles on the sub-
ject of their dress; to discountenance any at-
tempt to revise long skirts for walking pur-
poses; to discharge the obnoxious wire bustle;
to frown down low necks; to get rid of what-
ever is false and artificial; to stimulate the use
of honest fabrics; and to encourage and assist
the development of a true and refined taste.
This is a good work for the bright girls of this
generation to begin upon. Will they do it?
—Jennie June.


A NICE WAY TO COOK CHICKENS.—Cut the
chicken up, and stew until done; make a thick-
ening of cream and flour, adding butter; salt
and pepper to taste; have made and baked a
pair of short cakes—rolled thin; cut in small
squares, and arrange on the dish, pouring
chicken and gravy over while both are hot.
This is much better than chicken pie, and more
simple to make.


84	﻿THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1882.


PLATFORM OF THE PEOPLE'S PARTY.

	The platform approved and adopted by the
Territorial Convention, as a declaration of the
principles of the People’s Party, is,"In our opin-
a very solid and excellent one. We publish it in
full, and advise all women to read and study it
carefully. There is a genuine ring in it, that sa-
vers of true liberty, to man and woman.
	The paragraph on citizenship deserves perhaps
some public expression of views and sentiments
from the women of the Territory. We most
emphatically believe in woman suffrage, and
that all attempts to debar woman from exercis-
ing the franchise are unjust and cruel. More-
over, that denying the suffrage to woman is not
only inconsistent with the institutions of the
country, but places her at a great disadvantage
individually and socially. Whatever robs woman
of endowments to which she might attain,
dwarfs her posterity and consequently deterior-
ates the race of mankind in their onward pro-
gress and advancement. The best education,
now very generally conceded, is a practical edu-
cation, and this will apply to politics as well as
chemistry or any of the sciences.
	The first step towards a political education for
woman is the ballot in her own hands. It is the
opinion of many people that women must first
be educated in the exercise of suffrage beforo
the ballot is given; but why? What education
do boys have, save in exceptional instances, be-
fore they cast their first vote? They hear men
talk politics, and perchance read the newspapers;
so do women hear men talk, and sometimes un-
derstand better than their sons and brothers do;
and they too read the newspapers. But boys
learn more about politics and the ballot when
they begin to exercise the franchise. So will
women.
	The women of this Territory have been re-
ceiving this sort of practical education for twelve
years, and one would naturally think that some
of them had become proficient enough to fill
positions of emolument or trust. Certainly the
women of Utah have been modest and moderate
in their demands for political recognition; but
perhaps a little persistent in asking that the
word male be removed from the statutes of the
Territory, and women thus made eligible to
office. This the “ Liberals” think too much, and
so far the Governor of Utah has refused to put
his signature to a bill-of this kind, though-it
passed both Houses of two successive legisla-
tures.
	This is not all. The “Liberal” Party have
used their utmost liberality to deprive the
women of the Territory of the right of suffrage,
already enjoyed, and in speaking of these attacks,
as “Illiberal and unmanly assaults upon vested
rights and upon justice, equality and the princi-
ple of popular sovereignity,” the People’s Party
have chosen the very mildest language for such
a flagrant act of injustice. The People’s Party
have manifested a desire to give the fulllest lib-
erty to woman, and it is woman’s duty, in our
opinion, to aid by her vote, by her influence,
and by her utmost ability to sustain and main-
tain the vital principles of free government for
“the protection of life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness," and to be able to give an intelligent
and practical interpretation of the word suffrage.
To learn something of the routine es well as the
principles of government. We believe it to be a
woman’s duty to attend local political meetings,
not only, to see how such meetings are conducted,
but to exercise on influence for good in all places
of this kind. Men will be more interested in
attending meetings of this sort if there are
ladies present, and such gatherings will be more
quiet and orderly when women citizens take an
active part in them.
	The principles set forth in the platform below
really recommend themselves to every high-
souled man or woman, and need no comment
whatever.	
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES.
	The People's Party, struggling for supremacy
of constitutional law and the sacred privilege of
local self-government, submit the following dec-
laration of principles:
	First. We believe that the protection of life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness is the object
of frco government, and that the Constitution
of the United States was ordained and estab-
lished to secure the greatest possible liberty to
man, woman and child, consistent with the
public welfare.
	Second. We believe that free government
can only exist where the people governed par
ticlpate in the administration thereof.
	Third. We believe that any party or faction
of a political community that seeks to subvert
the institutions of local self-government, aims a
deadly thrust at the Constitution, and that such
party or inction is unworthy the suffrages of a
free people.
	Fourth. We believe that any official who at-
tempts to stifle the popular voice as expressed
at the ballot box is guilty of treason against the
sovereign people.
	Fifth. We believe that the right to frame
laws suited to the requirements of the Territory
having been vested by Congress in the Legisla-
ture elected by its citizens, to deprive them of
that right by substituting a commission, arbi-
trarily appointed, and thus to disfranchise a
hundred and fifty thousand people, and reduce
them to a condition of serfdom, would be un-
precedented in the history of the naticn—an act
that could not be justified by any actual neces-
sity, and that the attempt by a pretended politi-
cal party to create such a revolution in the gov-
ernment of this Territory is worthy only of
conspirators and political adventures.
	Sixth. We believe in the right of the people
of a Territory as well as a State to test, in the
courts established by the government, the con-
stitutionallly or construction of any enactment,
local or congressional, and express our astonish-
ment at the public declaration of a high federal
official of this Territory and the enunciation by
a so-called political party that the people have
no rights except such as Congress may grant to
them, and that to differ with the Territorial ex-
ecutive about the construction of a statue is
nullification. We utterly repudiate such a
monstrous doctrine as worthy alone of the most
absolute despotism, and claim that the United
States Constitution, in its benign provisions, ex-
tends alike over the States and Territories of the
American Union, and that it is the bounden
duty of the Governor as much as the humblest
citizen to yield obedience to the laws as they are
construed by the courts. We utterly repudiate
the unconstitutional attempt by any executive
to usurp Judicial or legislative functions, and to
hold the American citizen bound by the partial
prejudiced, unfair and illegal construction which
he may see fit to place upon any statute.
	Seventh. Citizenship is the basis of the right
of suffrage. While the elective franchise is a privi-
lege conferred by law, the qualifications for its
exercise grow out of the condition of citizenship,
and as citizenship is not dependent upon sex or
regulated thereby, whatever right of voting origi-
nates in the citizenship of men inheres also in
the citizenship of women. Female citizens,
equally with male citizens, are amenable to the
law, therefore they are entitled to an equal voice
with men in the framing of the law. As all
just powers of government are derived from the
consent of the governed, and that consent is
expressed by the suffrage, and as women as well
as men are made subject to the government of
this country, the denial of the suffrage to women
is inconsistent with the principles which under-
lie our national institutions. The moral and in-
tellectual as well as physical excellence of our
sons and daughters being largely dependent upon
the mothers who bear and train them, the
women of the nation should be endowed with
full political freedom, that, being made familiar
with political rights and principles, they may
be able to instill into the hearts of the rising
generation the spirit of patriotism, the love of
liberty and a reverence for republican institu
tions. For twelve years the women citizens of
Utah have enjoyed the right to vote at all elec-
tions in this Territory and have exercised it
with credit to themselves and to the benefit of
the community, and the People’s Party hereby
denounces the attempts which have been made
to deprive women voters of the right of suffrage,
as illiberal and unmanly assaults upon vested
rights and upon justice, equality and the princi-
ple of popular sovereignity.
	Eight. We believe in an honest, and eco-
nomical administration of government, and
point with pride to the economy and honesty
with which public affair have been administered
by officers elected from the ranks of the People's
Party, and also to the fact that the taxes in Utah
are lighter than any in Other Territory, and the
Territory is out of debt; the counties, with one or
two exceptions, are in the same satisfactory con-
dition. The records fail to furnish any instance
of embezzlement or misappropriation of public
funds by any official of that party. On the
other hand, when, by frauds committed at the
polls, Tooele County was wrested from the
popular control, the taxes of the county were
shamefully misappropriated and embezzled;
county scrip depreciated from par to less than
fifteen conts on the dollar, and even by the
economy and honesty of the People's officials,
who haye resumod control of its affairs, and al-
though its paper is now worth ninety per cent.,
Tooele County is not yet quite out of debt and
has not fully recovered from the evils of "Lib-
eral" rule.
	Ninth. We repudiate and deny the charges
of lawlessness which have been made against
the people of Utah, and as proof that these slan-
ders are without foundation, we point to the
records of the courts, the chief of which are
not in any way in the control of the people, and
which demonstrate the striking fact that the so-
called ‘ Liberal” class, constituting less than
twenty per cent. of the population of the Terri-
tory, furnishes over eighty per cent. of the
criminals.
	Tenth. We further repudiate and deny the
charges that in Utah a church dominates the
state; that priestly control is exercised in any
manner to infringe upon, the freedom of the in-
dividual, either at the polls, in convention, or in
any official capacity; that perjury and falsehood
of any kind is justified, whether for the protec-
tion of persons from the action of law or for any


other purpose whatever; that intolerance is ex-
hibited either for the discouragement of emigra-
tion, the settlement of the public domain or in-
vasion of the rights of any individual; that any
unequal taxation is either encouraged or permit-
ted; that public accounts are not given of the
expenditure of public moneys; that the tenets
of a church are taught in the district schools, or
that the people are influenced to disloyalty or
antagonism to the government of the United
States or any of its representatives.
	Eleventh. We affirm that it is the duty of
every American citizen to render obedience to
the Constitution of the United States and every
law enacted in pursuance thereof.
	Twelfth. We affirm with confidence that the
Territory of Utah, having the requisite popula-
tion and exhibiting all the qualifications neces-
sary to self-government, its people being excep-
tionally honest, thrifty, sober, frugal and peace-
able, is entitled to admission into the Union as a
sovereign State.
	Thirteenth. We pledge ourselves as a party
to the maintenance and defence of constitutional
principles and the inalienable rights of mankind
and proclaim ourselves the friends of true liberty
—civil, political and religious, to all people in
every part of the habitable globe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 85


[Column 1]
VISIT TO BYRON'S GRAVE.

	During Whitsuntide, while at Nottingham at-
tending a District meeting, I seized the oppor-
tunity, so long anticipated, of running down to
Hucknall and Newstead—the former the burial
place and the latter the former residence of Lord
Byron. The first is a quaint little village, very
antique in appearance, reminding one forcibly of
the picturesque representations so often seen in
steel engravings of the typical English village.
It was the forenoon of Whit-Monday when I
alighted from the cars, which touch at the sta-
tion on the outskirts of the village, and walked
up the little rustic lane, over the bridge, and
through a winding street into the main part of
the place. Bands wore playing, flags were fly-
ing, and the peasantry were indulging in a gen-
eral jollification. I was an object of curiosity of
course—a stranger in black always is in such
places—and as I walked up the narrow thorough-
fare toward the little church on the hill—"A
gentle hill, green and of mild declivity," I was
pointed at, joked at, laughed at, etc., until I had
fully run the gauntlet. Arriving at the church,
I was pelted with rice by a good-natured mob of
peasants around the doorway, who evidently
mistook me for one of several bridegrooms of as
many couples that were being married inside
the sacred edifice. Awaiting the completion of
the ceremonies, I entered the building and was
shown to the spot where Byron lies, with his
mother and daughter—his only child, Ada—re-
posing on either side. There is no monument
over the remains. It is simply a vault beneath
the surface of a raised flat at one extremity of
the church. Were it not for the single word
"Byron," in brazen letters upon a marble tablet
let into the floor—accompanied by the dates of
his birth and death—you would never know that
you were walking over the silent dust of one of
the most illustrious of poets. On the wall at
the right are beautiful white marble tablets, ap-
propriately inscribed in commemoration of the
dead poet and his daughter, which you have had
described before in the EXPONENT, by the pen
of Sister Hannah T. King. Above Byron's
tablet is a withered bay wreath, hung there
some years since by Joaquin Miller, the poet (by
courtesy called) of the Sierras! Lying near are
partially withered floral offerings from a number
of noble Lords and Ladies who have visited the
Byronic Mecca at various times.

[Column 2]
	The old church is in a half-ruined condition
externally, but the inside is kept in good repair.
Its general aspect would never suggest to the
mind unconscious of its trust the splendid genius
of the author of Childe Harold's Pilgrimage.
As the Mausoleum of a Gray or a Thompson, or
some other more pastoral poet, it would strike
the beholder as very fitting, but not for the final
resting place of a mind whose playthings were
wine cups, thunder storms and battle fields.
But after all, what difference! Death is no re-
spector of persons. He levels all ranks, mingles
the dust of the basest and the best, and "lays
the shepherd's crook beside the scepter."
	Outside the little church at Hucknall, in close
proximity to the Byron vault, grows a plant,
from which I plucked three leaves, one of which
I enclose; as you are poetical in your tastes, and
an admirer of the Byronic school, it may please
you as a book mark.
	At Newstead, which is a village two stations
beyond Hucknall, I was less fortunate in gratify-
ing my curiosity. It being Monday—a day
when, for what reason only an Englishman
could guess, the Abbey is always closed—I was
disappointed in my desire to visit the venerable
and celebrated pile. I could not even enter the
grounds, and as the Abbey is embosomed deeply
in a wooded vale, was obliged to return to Liver-
pool without even a glance at its walls. On
every other day besides Monday visitors are ad-
mitted by certain numbers at a time, free tickets
of admission being furnished by the proprietor
of the hotel recently built near the station.
	The Abbey is not now owned by any of the
Byron family. It is the property of an indi-
vidual who spends his summers on the continent
and gratifies his aristocratic instincts by leaving
orders behind with his even more officious
steward,	*	*	*	that the Abbey
is to be closed on Mondays. when neither love,
money, nor threats of violence are capable of
effecting an entrance. Let all tourists beware!
They say that those who visit the interior of
the place, among other things, are shown the
celebrated skull drinking cup and a plate out of
which the dead poet, in a fit of passion at being
interrupted in a poetical reverie, seized and bit a
piece, leaving the very marks of his teeth in the
solid earthen ware. The skull goblet is a reality,
and its existence an historical fact, but the mu-
tilated plate I am inclined to believe is a Harriet-
Beecher-Stoweism—in other words a libel on the
poet's memory. I have seen some men—they
were always literary men—irritable enough to
attempt such an act of rashness, but have never
met one whose dental formations, even if porce-
lain in nature, were capable of such surprising
results. There is more danger of the plate leav-
ing its mark upon the teeth than vice versa.
Don't you think so? However, they tell the
story, and society is correspondingly happy in
believing it. By the by, I heard some time ago
that the publication of Lady Byron's letters had
effectually put a quietus upon the H. B. Stowe
allegations so shamefully derogatory to the bad-
enough-as-it-is reputation of the immortal bard.
How much truth there was in it I know not.
Well, this is enough on Byron for the present.
								O. F. W.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE 13th Ward Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A.
were re organized Tuesday evening, Oct. 17, by
Bishop Attwood and his Counselors.

	IN company with Mrs. M. I. Horne, we at—
tended the Conference of the Relief Society and
P. A. of Davis Stake, held at East Bountiful Fri-
day, Oct. 20,Will give some details in our next
issue.


Sisters E. R. S. Smith and Z. D. H. Young
left the city Thursday, Oct. 19, and visited
through Juab Stake; attended Conferences in
Nephi, and held meeting attended in their tour
through the Stake by Prest. Teasdale, Elder L.
A. Bailey and Sister Amelia Goldsbrough.
   We had the pleasure of attending the Confer-
ence of the Primary Association of the 20th
Ward Thursday, Oct 19th, but have not space in
this issue to give items in detail. The 12th
Ward Primary had a Fair on he same day,
which was, we are informal, quite a success in
a small way..
 Ladies, vote for the delegate of the People's
Party, the Hon. John T. Caine, who will repre-
sent all the people of the Territory. Those who
have been permitted toregister will certainly
not forget to go to the polls and cast a ballot on
the first Tuesday in November. No one should
excuse herself from this important  duty on
election day. The vote will undoubtedly be the
heaviest one ever cast in Utah, and women will
be largely represented in it.
  Mrs. S. M. Kimball made quite a political
speech in the 14th Ward Assembly Room Sat-
urday, Oct. 21 She gave her opinion of the
duty of the women of Utah in regard to the
"Declaration of Principles" of the People’s
Party; felt something was due from them as a
response to the sentiments therein expressed
towards woman. Thought women thus privi-
ledged had a responsibility resting upon them
which should be taken into consideration.


LETTER FROM ESCALANTE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	We have now closed our subscription to assist
in emigration, aud thought we would mention
what we had accomplished. Our Primary Asso-
ciation donated $31,25. The Young Ladies, with
the assistance of the Young Man's Association,
donated $30.75; making a total of $62. Much
can be accomplished by perseverance, and it is
right for the young to take an active part to
carry on the work of God. Some little boys
twelve years old worked and earned their dona-
tion, and were proud they could assist to gather
the poor Saints. The Primaries are a great help
to the rising generation; through their agency
the principles of our holy religion will be im-
pressed upon the minds of the children, never
to be erased. Our Associations are in good con-
dition. The Primary Association held a Fair
during the summer, which was very creditable;
also a concert. President Mary A. P. Schow
takes great pains to train their voices to sing
their Primary Hymns.
	I often think it is good to have a medium like
the EXPONENT to exchange ideas and to stimu-
late to good works.		JANE S. COLEMAN.
	September 30, 1882.


OBITUARIES.

	Thurza Hatt, aged 56 years, 5 months, 27 days, died
of cholera morbus; after an illness of four days. She
was the daughter of George and Avies Hitchune, and
wife of John Hatt. Born in Auebury Wiltshire, February
13, 1826; died August 10th 1882. She was the mother of
fourteen children, and grandmother of fifteen. Was
baptized in the year 1848; and emigrated to Utah in
1881. She was a kind mother, and a good wife, and was
respected by all who knew her. She endured much trib-
ulation and suffering, and died as she had lived, in the
full faith of a glorious resurrection.
						JANE MILLER, Pres.
						MARGARET SHARP, Sec'y.
20th Ward, Salt Lake City.


Died: At Holden, Millard Co., Utah, Sept. 2d, 1882.
Sarah Hirst Beecroft, daughter of Gideon and Mary
Wolcott Hirst, and wife of Joseph Beecroft.
Deceased was born August 5th, 1813, In St.Gilesparish
Middesex, London England. Married Joseph Beecroft
Oct 14th 1832. Joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints Oct. 7th, 1843. Came with the Saints
to Des Moines, Iowa, in 1856; there her husband was
taken very sick, and they were compelled to remain un-
til 1859, when they came to the valley.
She was the mother of seven children three of whom
are now living, she has fifteen grandchildren, and six
great grandchildren.
 She died as she had lived a faithful and consistent
Latter-day Saint. She has been an energetic member of
the Relief Society since its organization in this Ward,
and was always on hand to respond to every call that
was made of her. She was a most devoted wife and
mother, and her aged husband greatly mourns her loss. 
							Pauline Larson. 
				------------
  Died: Sept. 18,1882, in Beaver Utah, of consumption. 
Mrs. Parinthia O. T. Oakden. She had been for some
years a widow, and had also buried seven children. One
son 18 years old lives to mourn her loss, also a host of
relatives and friends. During her illness which was lin-
gering and painful, she was often administered to
by the Elders, thus her sufferings alleviated and her
heart comforted. She was patient and fall of faith in
God and the prayers of his people. She fell asleep at
last without a struggle or a groan, and has gone behind
the vail to join her husband and children, to await the
resurrection of the just. Deceased was the daughter of
Daniel and Ruth W. Tyler, and was born June 4,1839,
after the expulsion of the Saints from Mo. and has
shared the persecutions, the joys and sorrows, of the
Saints ever since, never expressing a doubt or fear.
With her husband she received the ordinances and bless-
ings necessary to secure an eternal union of their family
hereafter. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord
henceforth. Yea, saith the spirit that they may rest from
their labors; and their works do follow them.
									COM.--
				  ---------
   DIED: At West Jordan Utah, Sept. 21st, 1882. Sister
Betsy Poulson Malstrom; Born May 23d. 1861. She was
the loved wife of John Malstrom, a faithful and devoted
wife and was the only child of her parents. Was a
member of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. Association,
and was faithful In the discharge of every duty. she
had been married about three years, she had but one
child, and It survived its mother but a few hours and its
body was lain in its mother’s arms for burial.
   Sister Malstrom has been taken from us in the midst
of a life of usefulness and will not soon be forgotten.
We deeply sympathize with her husband, and aged par-
ents in their great sorrow. “May she rest in peace” till
the morning of the resurrection, when she will again
join her loved ones where there will be no more sorrow
nor parting.	 DELILA GARDNER.
 Died: At Koosharem, Plute Co. Oct. 1st, 1882. Char-
lotta Enholm, born Sweeden Dec. 26th 1857. Wife of
John Enholm and only daughter of Gustave and Marie
Brandt.
   She embraced the Gosple in her youth in Sweden, left
her parents, and emigrated to Utah in 1872. She leaves
a husband and two children, the youngest just four weeks 
old, and father, mother, brother and many friends to 
mourn her loss, She was a noble and affectionate sister
and a useful member in the place. She filled the office 
of President of the Primary Association, and Treasurer
for the R.S., and she has faithfully preformed her duties
until our Heavenly father was pleased to call her to a 
higher sphere. May our Heavenly Father comfort the 
husband and parents, and those that mourn her loss. 
She was ill only 12 days, and the sisters of the Relief
Society during her sickness assisted her faithfully. The 
funeral services were well attended; the children of the 
Primary Association followed her to the grave, and 
sang a parting Hymn, as a token of farewell to their be-
loved President who had given them so many good in-
structions. 
MARGRETTE ANDERSEN, Pres. R. S. 
MATHILDA JARGENSEN, Coun., P. A.
					---------
   Died: In Payson, on Sunday morning, Oc. 8, 1882, of
scarletfever, Harry Butler, son of James and Jane But-
ler, aged 10 years.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT,
Whereas, God in his all wise providence, has seen pro-
per to call from our midst, to a higher sphere, one of our 
members who was grealty beloved by us all, for his 
kind and gentle spirit, his faithfulness and diligence in
our society, and many other good qualities which he
possessed, and for the love and respect we have for him 
and for his parents and friends. 
Therefore, be it resolved, that we the members of the
 Primary Association do deeply mourn the loss of on
beloved brother, and we condole with his parents an
friends in their great loss. Yet intermingled with the 
joy of meeting him in a glorious resurrection. And, 
  Be it resolved, that we present a copy of these resolu-
tions to his parents, and publish the same in the WOM-
AN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on record.
HYRUM REESE, 
MATTIE SARGENT>. 
Committee.


86	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	Minutes of the Young Ladies’ Conference,
held in the Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City,
Sept. 23, 1882. Singing. Prayer. Singing.
Minutes of previous Conference read and ap-
proved; also reports. Sister Freeze was pleased
with the reports, but would like to have more
of the country wards represented. Pleased to
hear the testimonies that were borne, for she
believed with Sister Snow, testimony to be the
foundation of spiritual, improvement.
	The following resolutions of respect to the
memory of Counselor Clara Conrad, were read
by Coun. Louie Felt, and were unanimously ad-
opted by the Conference.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT

To the late Counselor Clara Young Conrad:
	Whereas, at the close of a short but beauti-
ful and exemplary life, devoted to the faithful
performance of her duties as wife, mother, friend
and Counselor to the President of the Salt
Lake Stake Association of Young Ladies, and
as a bright and shining star among her sex,
Clara Young Conrad has been removed from
our midst; and,
	Whereas, When such a life is ended, it be-
comes those who have been associated with,
and have enjoyed and profited by her labors,
to give expression to their sense of the great
loss they have sustained. Therefore,
	Resolved, That we the members of this As-
sociation, appreciating her noble and generous
character, her unselfish devotion and ever cheer-
ful willingness to contribute all in her power
to the elevation and redemption of her sex, and
believing that her best eulogy and most lasting
monument will be found in the record of her
life, here add our tribute to her memory, our
acceptance of the value of her example, and
our pride that her name and labors have a place
in the records of our Association, tendering to
her family and friends, our most heartfelt
sympathy in their grief.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be a part
of our minutes, and be placed on record for the
benefit of the present and future generations.
					LOUIE B. FELT.
					ROMANIA B. PRATT,
			Committee on Resolutions.
	Sarah M.Kimball was pleased with the resolu-
tions, and bore testimony to the purity of heart,
nobility of soul, and the exemplary and useful
life of Sister Conrad. Could testify that all
who came into her presence felt the sweet and
peaceful influence of the Spirit of God which
ever accompanied her. Had often heard her
say that the great desire of her heart was that
she might enjoy better health, so she could be
more useful, as that was her constant desire.
Did not feel that the occasion was a sorrowful
one, for Sister Conrad had long been a sufferer;
and when the noble and good pass away, hav-
ing finished the work assigned them in this
probation, there is little cause to mourn.
Urged the Young Ladies to imitate the good
and useful life of Sister Conrad, for her ex-
ample was worthy of imitation. Spoke of the

[Column 2]
comfort and hope the Gospel gave, and the nec-
essity of our living so as to gain the love, re-
spect and confidence of our fellow creatures,
that when we pass away our memory may live
forever in the hearts of our friends.
	Coun. Louie Felt was pleased to meet with
those who were trying to do good and keep the
commandments of God. Was sorrowful to part
with our beloved Sister Conrad, but she had
gone from suffering and all was well with her.
We should strive to follow her example, and
become useful members in the Church and
kingdom of God. Urged the sisters to be more
charitable and united in their feelings, that
they might enjoy a greater portion of the Spirit
of God. Made other instructive and interest-
ing remarks.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith having been out of
the city, had not attended Conference for some
time, was dissapointed to see so few present,
had attended eleven meetings while away and
the houses were filled to overflowing. Gave a
short account of the meetings, how they were
conducted, some holding conjoint meetings
which as a general thing she objected to but
under some circumstances it was perfectly right.
Was anxious our Young Ladies should realize
the responsibilities devolving upon them, hav-
ing a great work to accomplish by their in-
fluence in the society of to-day, the reformatien
they might accomplish in giving aid to those
having acquired injurious habits, setting their
heads on assisting in carrying on the purposes of
God. We are on the verge of a great change,
it is necessary for the young as well as the old
to be preparing for it and have a knowledge of
the Gospel. Seek first the kingdom of God
and all else shall be added, is promised; we
have been reserved to come forth to fulfill a
mission, and every day’s work is necessary for
us to fulfill it. Who needs the spirit and
education more than our young mothers, it
should be their prompter, they should be the
noblest women in the world, being prepared to
meet kings and queens, not on inferior grounds,
but seek inspiration and the spirit of God that
we may represent a pattern of heavenly things.
Felt anxiety for our young sisters, and a desire
to reach after them. It is the tried and faith-
ful that shall inherit all things.
	Sister Snow, of St. George, could say Amen
to the instructions given this afternoon, was
pleased to meet with the Saints, and desired to
be with us in the work of God. If we could
realize the mission our Father has sent us here
to do in assisting to build up his kingdom, we
would have no idle time to spare, but seek
to improve all our talents not being dilatory
in any duty required of us, it is by living for
blessings that we obtain them. Gave some ex-
cellent instructions to the young ladies and
mothers. If we had power to throw our arms
around our young and shield them from evil,
and by our influence draw them unto us, and
try to save souls, and discharge our duty faith-
fully the Lord will help us if our desire is from
the heart, living humbly and faithfully will be
a shield from the trials and persecutions.
Prayed God to unite us together that we may
live acceptable lives.
	President Freeze asked the sisters present to
teach to others the instructions given to-day.
	Many young ladies in our midst if we could
get them so as to have the Spirit of God work
on them, would become useful members, and
desired the sisters to invite all the young
ladies to attend their meetings and it would
reach that class. Had visited several wards
since last Conference; many were in a pros-
perous condition that were not reported. Felt
thankful for Sister Snow’s presence and in-
structions, hoped she would continue to warn
and instruct the young, as long as she had
strength.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction.


[Column 1]
UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 18th Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Societies of Utah County held in
Provo City, Sept. 1st, 1882. Present on the
stand, President Margaret T. Smoot, and Coun-
selors, Secy., &c., and Sister Elmina S. Taylor,
from Salt Lake City. A few brethren of the
Priesthood were also present. Conference
opened by the usual exercises.
	Sister Smoot said, my heart is filled with
gratitude that we are permitted to meet once
more in the house of the Lord. Our reports
are of great importance and magnitude and are
made by the handmaidens of the Lord. The
minutes of our last meeting are good, and
should stimulate us to renewed energy in good
works; let us confide in the Lord, and bid de-
fiance to all who are not of him. It is an oc-
casion of rejoicing with us to-day, for we have
Sister Margaret A. Cluff with us, after an
absence of over three years. And while we
rejoice let us pray for those that are still labor-
ing in the vineyard outside Zion's borders.
Sister Mary John spoke a few words, felt
thankful that Sister Cluff was with us again,
and said she would tell us something of her
mission.
	The several Presidents of the County were
called upon to give verbal reports of the Socie-
ties over which they presided, to which they
responded, speaking in terms of praise of the
unity, and good works of the sisters that
regularly attended their meetings, but all
agreed in speaking of the faithful few whose
familiar faces greeted them at each successive
meeting. Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
Prayer by Sister Elmina Taylor.
	This afternoon session, was taken up by
the Silk Association, in order to give the
sisters, that were obliged to go home on the
afternoon train, an opportunity to see the pro-
gress that was being made in reeling silk, and
also learn the steps that were being taken to-
wards weaving the same. There was quite a
display of reeled silk on exhibition.
	The Relief Society resuming their Con-
ference, Sister E. Taylor spoke at some length
in the interests of the Deseret Hospital, its ob-
jects and aims; giving the sisters instructions
concerning their donations, and on other im-
portant subjects, etc., etc.
	Sister Margaret A. Cluff followed with some
very interesting remarks, concerning her mis-
sion to the Sandwich Islands of over three years.
Spoke of her pleasure at being permitted to
meet again with the Saints, after such a lengthy
absence. Gave an interesting account of her
journey to the Islands, and her reception by
the natives, and others, many of them ac-
quaintances made while on a former mission,
of five years duration. While there she was
appointed to preside over the Relief Societies
in all the Islands, where they were organized.
Her position was an arduous one, traveling
from island to island; and her health never
very good. The people were a good people,
easily governed, and never tired of hearing of
Zion and the people of God. The speaker
could not help feeling attached to them. They
had contributed and sent two hundred dollars
to help build the Salt Lake Temple. Spoke
quite lengthy but, our space will not permit
giving more.
	The choir sang (in honor of the return of
Sister Cluff) the hymn beginning "Midst scenes
of confusion and creature complaints." Bishop
Johnson made a few very appropriate remarks,
followed by Mother Duke and others. Pres.
M. T. Smoot said, our time has been well spent,
but let us not leave any duty undone. I pray
that the Lord may spare our lives to meet again
and again. After singing and prayer, Confer-
ence adjourned for three months. The follow-
ing is our Statistical and Financial reports for
six months:

[Column 2]
	Members, 2091; teachers, 335; meetings held
261; average attendance, 883; church papers
taken, 399; WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 156. Pro-
perty on hand at last report, $7,334. 15; re-
ceipts for six months, $1,018.03; disbursements,
$951.66; to poor, $584.39; Hospital, $39.00; sun-
dry disbursements, $49.95; buildings, $24.75;
missionary, $22.40; books, $6.35; home industries
$52.32; temple $62.00; emigration $112.50. Pro-
perty on hand $7095.24. Cash on hand $305.28.
Wheat on hand 2,623 bushels, 40 lbs,
				CAROLINE DANIELS. Sec'y,

PLEASANT VALLEY.

	Our little branch is progressing in the good
work. A little over a year ago there were no
religious meetings here, and drinking prevailed
extensively. Through the energy of a few
noble minded men, liquor has been almost
banished, and a branch organized which is
presided over by David Williams, a man of
firm principle and great energy. He with his
Counselors are doing all to advance the people.
Many quorums and societies have been organ-
ized, among which is the Relief Society, which
was organized August 6th 1882. President
Williams spoke of the necessity of having a
Relief Society; and said, he would like Sister
S. M. Kimball to give them some instructions
in regard to the organization of one.
	Sister Kimball made some excellent
remarks, giving the object of the Relief
Society. The sisters, suggested Sister Sarah
Williams as President, a motion was made
to that effect and Sister Williams was
unanimously sustained. She chose as her
First Counselor, Sister Lizzie Gillispie.
The choosing of the Second Counselor, was
defered until Sister Williams had time to con-
sider, Sister Tillie Bliss, was chosen as Secre-
tary; and Sister Martha Gillispie as Treasurer.
All were unanimously sustained. At a meet-
ing of the sisters afterwards, Sister Ann Thomas
was chosen as Second Counselor.
	We have held 4 regular meetings and 5 sew-
ing meetings. Have made and quilted one
quilt; and another one is ready to put on the
frames. A good spirit prevails in our meetings
and all are endeavoring to carry out the in-
structions of Sister Kimball.
					TILLIE BLISS, Sec'y.
	Sept. 26, 1882.

PLEASANT VALLEY PRIMARY.

	President David Williams assisted by his
Counselors, organized the children of this
branch into a Primary Association on the 3d,
of Sept. President Williams called upon Sis-
ter Tillie Bliss to give some instructions regard-
ing the object and character of Primary Asso-
ciations; which she did in a very interesting
and able manner. Counselor Robert Gillispie
proposed Sister Tillie Bliss as President of the
Association, who was unanimously sustained.
She chose as her Counselors, Sister Martha
Gillispie and Sister Mary Ann Lewis. Miss
Annie Eden as Treasurer, and Miss Martha
Reese Secretary. All of whom were unami-
mously sustained. President Williams then
made some very excellent remarks to the par-
ents, desiring them to take an interest in the
Association and send their children as he knew
they would be benefited by so doing. Counselor
Robert Gillispie followed urging the necessity
of education our little ones in the principles of
the Gospel. Thought the President had taken
a very wise step in organizing the children.
Thought they had made a very wise selection
in appointing Sister Bliss President, as she had
had considerable experience with children
understanding their different dispositions etc.
					MARTHA REESE, Sec'y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADY SPEAKERS AT OMAHA. 

	Miss Phebe Couzens, a St. Louis lawyer, hav-
ing been favorably spoken of as one of the
Utah Commissioners, perhaps it would not be
amiss to mention her first among the Suffrage
ladies. She may come to Utah yet, we should
certainly be very glad to see her; and we hold 
it would have been eminently proper to have
appointed at least two women on that commis-
sion, as the question is one involving the in-
terest and happiness of many thousands of
women, who would prefer to be represented by a
woman, to the general government. But that
is not considered by those in power; women
must abide the judgment of men in this matter,
in fact we have never yet heard of the Utah
Commissioners hearing directly from any
“Mormon” woman on what is most intensely
her own subject.
	Miss Couzens is tall and slender has dark
hair and eyes, and arched eyebrows a very
pleasant face and most amiable manner. She
is thoroughly in earnest in whatever she un-
dertakes and is one of the few young women
who have taken the platform to speak for
woman suffrage. She has been working in
that interest now ten years, and is not at all
discouraged. She is staying in Nebraska help-
ing in her vigorous way to carry on the cam-
paign, previous to the election there in Novem-
ber, when the people of that state are to vote
on the amendment giving woman political
equality. Miss Couzens has very good taste in
dress, but one never thinks of what she wears,
in conversation with her, or hearing her from
the platform. Two of her lectures are entitled
“Woman and her Country” and “Eve.” She
treats all her subjects in a masterly manner.
Her voice though not loud is clear, her pronun-
ciation distinct, her sentences all well rounded
and effectively enunciated, and her arguments
are strong and forcible. In short the lady is
very lovable as well as intelligent, educated,
interesting and womanly, none more so. She
is free from prejudice against the “Mormons,”
and believes in the rights of women, even
“Mormon” women.
	May Wright Sewall is another young lady,
though, unlike Phebe, has a husband. She has
been finely educated, and is at present princi-
pal of the young ladies’ department of her
husband’s Classical School in Indianapolis
Ind.
	She has a fine commanding presence, though
not tall, and makes an excellent Chairman of
Executive Committee. Her voice is musical
and very rich, and she is a natural orator. Her
command of language is good and she speaks
more eztempore than most of the lady lecturers.
She is a woman who impresses one as being
genuine and whole-souled; and who feels deeply
and strongly, and whose heart is keenly alive
to the sorrows of humanity. One to whom it
would be safe to go for sympathy in the hour
of trouble.
 We might go on enumerating these superior
women, who are leading the great movement
for  universal suffrage but it would take vol-
umes. Therefore we advise those who are de-
sirous of knowing concerning the women of
America, who have been engaged in this strug-
gle for equality of sex in public, to buy “The
History of Woman Suffrage” and they will get
it all. The best speakers were, in addition to
those mentioned, Mrs. E. L. Saxon, of Louis-
iana, Mrs. Eveleen Mason, Mrs. M. M. Bones Miss
Matilda Hindman of Penn. The last men-
tioned was one of the number who battled against
the suffrage boing taken from the women of
Utah, in the Congress of the United States a
few years ago, and is therefore entitled to the
gratitude of the people of this Territory.
Mrs. Clara Bewick Colby, of Beatrice, Neb.,
was Chairman of the local Committee at
Omaha, and had charge of all arrangements.


for the Convention, and through her excellent
and diligent management made it a grand and
positive success. Her duties were arduous and
she discharged them faithfully. Several of the
best speakers are still in the field assisting the-
ladies of Nebraska in carrying the state for
the Suffrage Amendment. Among these Susan
B. Anthony, Phebe Couzens, Matilda M. Hind-
man, Elizabeth Lisle Saxon, Virginia L. Minor,
Madame Clara Neyman, a German lady but
a resident of New York City for some years.
She is one of the brightest and one of the most
pleasing of the speakers, though her speeches
are all written ones, which always detracts a
little from the force and power of the speaker
over the audience. Mrs. Helen M. Gougar
editor of "Our Herald" is the great favorite
with a very large class; she is apt and witty, a
fine figure, and seems capable physically of do-
ing any amount of brain work; yet she is pale
and slender, but there is sometheng in her
manner and in her atmosphere that is exhilar-
ating. She dresses a little more stylish for the
platform than many of the other ladies. Miss
Rachel G. Foster of Philadelphia, Cor. Sec.,
for the N. W. S. A., is quite a remarkable
young lady. She is tall and delicate looking
exquisitily perfect in dress, and genteel in
manner, is a writer of some note, has written
a play or two as well as some other good whole-
some articles, and she is Miss Anthony’s right
hand woman in the present campaign, having
her head quarters at Omaha. Miss Anthony
is so well-known to the public, she needs no
comment here, except to say she looks and
appears as young as she did four years ago
and is doing as much work or even more if it
were possible. Mrs. Elizabeth L. Saxon of
Louisiana, expects to visit Utah as soon as the
election is over in Neb., and those who wish
will have an opportunity of hearing her for
themselves. She is an agreeable and powerful
lecturer and a most able worker in woman's
cause.						E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM SUNSET.

	SUNSET, Apache Co., Arizona,
				October 1st, 1882.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Socity of Sunset, Arizona, was
organized on the 2d of September, 1880, and 
since its organization has been the means of
doing  a great deal of good in helping the
needy, relieving the suffering, and comforting
and consoling the distressed; under the able
management of our esteemed president, Sister
Malinda Porter, who has truly been an exam-
ple to the members by her industry, energy
perserverance, charitable and forbearing dis-
position; we have been very successful in our
labors spiritually and partly temporally; al-
though, as you are no doubt aware, we are
endeavoring to live in the United Order, as a
settlement, and the means we may accumulate
from time to time, goes into the treasury of
the Order.  Our regular meetings which are
held the first Thursday in every month are
well attended, as also our work meetings, where
the sisters work up clothing for those who can-
not make it themselves; and the sisters are
enjoying a goodly portion of the spirit of their
religion.  Our society has teachers who visit
the members at their homes once a month.
	We are located in this far distant land
where, until within the last year, we have been,
comparatively speaking, free from the boasted
civilization of the 19th century, and as yet
through the organization we possess as a United
Order Company, and manner of living, those
who would teach our young folks to blaspheme
and speak lightly of sacred principles, have
found no place among us or introduced the
foolish fashions of the world.  I have lived in 
this place for nearly four years, and during
that time do not remember of having heard an
oath taken by one of our own community.
Strangers who visit us frequently use this foul
and unbecoming language, but they do not
seem to think the place a congenial one for
them, as they make their visits but brief.
	We have taken up with the old fashioned
mode of sending our wool after washing it to 
the carder, and getting it back in the shape of
rolls, which we spin and manufacture into
cloth by hand looms, and have been enabled
to clothe ourselves, husbands and children
partly in homespun. Indeed we have suffi-
cient labor to perform, in assisting our breth-
ren to reclaim the desert, make beautiful the
sterile soil, and make homes in this forsaken
land (I say forsaken, because many have been
here and left for other places. I presume that
not one twentieth of those who have been liv-
ing here remain to-day), to keep us very busy
if properly attended to, so that we would
hardly have time to do justice to the often
talked of subject among our sisters, that of
backbiting.
	We hope through the grace of our Lord and
Savior, to have power in due time to overcome
the weakness of the flesh, that we are so prone
to, and be one with the rest of our sisters of
Zion, in helping to promote the principles of
truth and righteousness in the land, and to
assist our brethren intheir work of the re-
demption of the human family from sin and
degredation.
	We as sisters, are not troubled in this land
with any commissioners or registration officers,
with their pious marriage relation oaths, as
woman's suffrage has not been extended to the
ladies of this Territory.
	Ever desiring that the daughters of Zion
may be firm and valiant in assisting to forward
the purposes of Jehovah, and that the EX-
PONENT may continue to be a faithful mon-
itor, in reminding them of their duties, and
that its publication may be crowned with suc-
cess,
	I am your devoted sister in the cause of
truth, 			EMMA W. NEILSON,
				Secretary.


PRETTY MOTHERS.

	When Lydia Newman's old Quaker uncle
saw that she had fastened her pretty little
Newport ties with poppy-red ribbons, he
frowned, and told her it was not seemly.
But Lydia laughed. "I don't care for them
myself," she said, "but I want my little boy to
remember that his mother wore red bows on
her shoes." Who does not remember the
pretty things that "mother" wore! Her dainty
laces, the pale lilac dresses, the rose tucked un-
der the lace on her breast, seem half divine
when they become but memories to us.
"Mother is "mother" be she gentle or rough,
but what a different ideal we have when we re-
call how proud we were when we brought our
friends home from school and rather surprised
them with her graceful, pretty ways. Her
hair was so soft, her eyes so tender, she talked
so well, and knew how to make a boy feel at
home. It was not necessary to make excuses
for her and say she was so busy. The other
boys themselves praised her, and we felt sorry
for them because we knew how much sweeter
and prettier she was than their mothers could
be. It is wise for a mother to take time to
dress and be fair in her children's eyes; to read
for their sake, to learn to talk well and to live
in to-day. The circle the mother draws around
her is more wholesome for the child than the one
he has to make for himself, and she is respon-
sible for his social surroundings. It is not easy
to be the child's most interesting companion,
to make home his strongest magnet, but the
mothers who have done this have been the
mothers of good men.—Our Continent.


KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 31 W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks. Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms,
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

CLASS IN OBSTETRICS,
BY special request of MRS. E. R. SNOW SMITH,
Dr. ROMANIA B. PRATT
Will commence her class in Obstetrics, November 1st,
1882, in her office over Godbe & Pitts' Drug Store. Lec-
tures, three per week for five months. During the course,
Drs. Anderson and Benedict will each deliver six prac-
tical lectures. Fee for course, $30.00; former stu-
dents, $20.00; books (3), $12.00, Manikin, skeleton, in-
struments and plates for illustration. Please send or-
ders for books early, as they have to be ordered from
the East. Lectures Commence at 3 p. m.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Bating,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
