VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1882.	No. 14.


OUR OWN WE MUST AID.

	Can you call creatures human—
	Who corner a woman
To quiz out her heart, at her husband's expense?
	Compassion and honor,
	Should pour down upon her,
Whose silent fidelity form'd her offense.

	Almost a mother!
	And could not another
Prison be found, than the convict's vile den?
	To banish or send her,
	This harmless offender!
Blush for such doings, all true-hearted men.

	Why turn to past pages,
	Of dark, dismal ages.
When the secrets of conscience, by torture were read!
	When judges and juries,
	Relentless as furies,
Wreak'd their sanctified wrath on the heretic's head.

	Progressive (?) condition,
	The grand (?) inquisition
Looms up, from the past, in this age we call tree.
	Oh! brave (?) generation,
	When incarceration
The fate of unorthodox people must be.

	What right has Jehovah,
	To topple things over.
Or ask folks to walk in His primitive ways?
	To slight the opinion
	Of those in dominion,
Or to set up His throne in republican days?

*		*		*		*		*

	Alas! how depraving,
	This "system enslaving"—
"What a pity," such women in Utah abound—
	Whose self-abnegation,
	So troubles the nation;
To help us they'd grind all our friends to the ground.

	'Tis certain we're humble,
	And ought not to grumble
At those who are lifting us out of the shade;
	While 'tis hard to resist them,
	We can't well assist them;
For, when hunted and hated, our own we must aid.

	The price of a ransom
	Was offered for Samson,
But it took false Delilah to give him away.
	We'll not emulate her,
	'Tis not in our nature;
"These strange" Mormon wives never stoop to betray.

	Success to our sister
	On the heroines list, her
Name is recorded, and long may it shine;
	May blessings attend her,
	And Angels defend her.
And her courage and firmness descend to her line.

	It shall flourish in story
	A permanent glory,
And th' fact shall be sensed and approved by the just—
	That the daughters of Zion,
	Will suffer and die, on
Their faith, ere they'll barter their friends or their trust;

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 30th, 1832.


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS.

	O, the merry, joyous Christmas times! the
laughter, the music of the bells, the songs we
sing, the stories we tell! How sweet to have
one day so free from pain and care, so full of
joy and gladness. 'Tis a time when we would
forget all the past, save such bright scenes as

[Column 2]
may make this day still brighter by smiling
upon us like the pleasant sunbeams.
	How eagerly, longingly we look forward to
the happy day, and how happily on Christmas
eve we mingle together to herald in the dear
and holy day with bright and joyous thoughts.
Some cling around the lighted Christmas tree,
where hang the gifts we have so long antici-
pated, and there they dance and sing for very
glee. Others seek the dance, or some like
amusement, until the silver bells chime out the
hour of midnight, then a whispered "Merry
Christmas," or "Christmas Gift," flits from ear
to ear, joined with gay laughter, joyous music,
and the patter, clatter of the flying feet, all in
time and all in tune, making a most happy
chorus.
	There are various ways of spending Christ-
mas time, but all are gay, all are happy, and
our own way, which ever it may be, is always
best, for at such a time one would scorn the
thought of discontent, envy, or any unpleasant
thoughts, and each one vies with all others in
making his Christmas the merriest.
	How immeasurably sweet on Christmas eve
to gather round the glowing hearth, and listen
to the stories told of the Christmas times of
long ago. And as we listen, it seems as though
the days must have been colder, the snow
whiter, the frost on the window panes glistened
in prettier, brighter forms, the children laughed
louder, the choirs sang sweeter, the maidens
danced prettier, the fires glowed brighter and
the heart beat lighter then than now. Yes,
grandpa, to you these things seem so, but for us
are now the Christmas days of your long ago.
After the stories are told, after the songs are
sung, off to the downy beds the little ones go,
where kind sleep touches the pillow and winds
its mantle round the little souls. Sweet sleep
is there with its hallowed angel—dreams.
	Far out in the clear blue sky the silver moon
stands forth in all her loveliness, and the bright
stars sparkle and glow and see themselves re-
flected in the crystals of the pure white snow.
The scene gleams like some enchanted fairy-
land, and as we gaze into the depths of its
mystic beauty, we ourselves become a part of
the ideal scene. From afar off appears a mag-
nificent chariot, drawn by handsome, glossy
reindeers with graceful horns and flowing
manes gliding as it were in a subdued and
tranquil sea. As it approaches nearer, down
in the recess of this magic chariot sits the ideal
king. His long white beard sweeps the floor;
his face is so full of joy and light celestial that
we fancy he is immortal. Round him are
other beings bright and happy, but not so great
—they are his pages, and they bear in their
arms, burdens cf peace and love. Swiftly they
dash over the mountains, the meadows and
plains, over the treetops and housetops they
come, and now right above us the chariot stops,
and the old and venerable king, with one of
his little messengers, looks down upon our
sleeping faces and whispers "All is well;" then
quickly the messenger lays down his burden,
and empties its contents into the row of stock-
ings, from grandma's homespun, down to little
baby's dainty one. Back to the chariot they
fly, and out again into the frosty air they ride,
to another home where little ones wait as anx-
iously as we for the good Christmas king; then
to another and another, till every little soul is
satisfied.
	The mother carefully, softly glides from

[Column 3]
couch to couch, and fondly kisses each little
dreamer, then sweetly murmurs, "all is well."
Then from the safely locked closet she brings
forth the pretty and precious things each little
heart has wished for, and gently, happily fills
each little stocking by the chimney place,
smilingly thinking of the happy faces, the
beaming smiles, the rippling laughter that will
greet her on the morrow.
	Oh, that Christmas times came oftener! but
stay, would we love them then so much? Do
we not value the diamond more for its rareness
than its brightness? If common, like dust, it
would not seem so bright; and so with Christ-
mas, and so with everything. If every day
were a merry-making, feasting time, we would
tire of it and long for quiet and loneliness, and
never half appreciate our pleasure.
	But the wisdom of a higher Being has sprin-
kled and mingled the diamonds and dust, the
light and darkness, the joy and gladness, in
such a way that all must acknowledge the
happy light of every day and the sorrowed
gloom of every night.
	But if all the year round should, through
misfortune or sorrow, be dark and sad as night,
let Christmas day be the awakening of a beau-
tiful morn, when the clouds turn their silver
lining into your darkened sky and shame the
shadows away, and reflect their delicate beauty
on your hearts, till the hearts reflect back the
light, and brighten the countenance with such
smiles as would rival the sunbeams.
									ANNIE.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following is from a letter written me by
my father in fulfilment of promise:
			"WASHINGTON, June 9, 1844.
	"MY DEAR DAUGHTER—I told you of the
blessings that we have received from our
Father which is in Heaven, so be obedient to
the counsel you have given to you from your
dear father and mother, who seek your welfare
both for time and eternity. There is no one
that feels as we do for you. Prove yourself
approved of God and man, as a true, undeviat-
ing friend through evil report as well as good,
through poverty as well as riches. This has
been the spirit I have endeavored to maintain
since I have been a member in the Church of
Christ. I want my children to be true and
faithful in all things, and never swerve from
the truth in any case. If you should be
tempted, or have feelings in your heart, tell
them to no one but your father and mother;
if you do, you will be betrayed and exposed to
your hurt. Remember, my dear child, what I
tell you, for you will find that I tell you the
truth in Christ and lie not. You are blessed,
but you know it not. You have done that which
will be for your everlasting good for this world
and that which is to come. I will admit there
is not much pleasure in this world. Our cir-
cumstances are such that I see no way for it at
present. Congress will not do anything for us,
no nothing; neither do I care whether they do
or not; but we will tease them all the day long.
They think they have got a great deal of power,
and all of this World is theirs to give or retain.
The devil thought he had all at his command
when he wanted to hire Jesus to worship him,


[Column 1]
He had violated all rights or claims—so has
Congress. We will go where we can find a
home, and worship God in His own way, and
enjoy our rights as free citizens; and this will
not be long. Now, my daughter, I have spok-
en plainly to you, more so than I ever did be-
fore. Be wise, and you shall prosper in all
things, and you shall lack for nothing that is
good. Be true to the covenants that you have
made, keep the compant ef those who are
wise and keep close mouths. Solomon says,
"A wise head keeps a close mouths."	*	*	*
Do not slight your friends, be kind, be merci-
ful, be gentle, be sober, and show yourself ap-
proved of God and of your friends. Be kind
to your dear mother, take burthens off from
her shoulders; be mild and pleasant to all.
This is the way to get the good will even of a
dog, for every spirit will beget its own likeness.
	"Now, Helen, let me tell you one thing that
I want you to do; take one of my large blank
books and commence your life back as far as
you can, and when I write my general history
I can put yours in with it. I want William to
do the same. Do not forget this—then you
can put all the letters that I write you in their
proper places, to be handed down to our chil-
dren for them to read.	*	*	*
	"It will be three weeks to-morrow since I
left my sweet home. O sweet home! it is a
heaven to me.
	"The Capitol stands on an eminence, like
our Temple. This building is a great deal
larger than our Temple will be. The stone of
which it is built is a little whiter color than
that of the Temple. It is surrounded with a
large park, decorated with trees of all kinds
and flowers, with several pools of pure water,
with fish in them. It looks like a paradise in
point of decoration. O that we had such a
place! we will when we build up a sure place.
I want to see onr Prophet here in the chair of
state—then we would come to see him.
	Elder Hyde came here on Saturday, and we
held a meeting yesterday. Elder Wight and
myself preached, and it left a good impression
on their minds. I think we shall leave here
to-morrow for Delaware, and hold a Conference.
If you can get the means, come with your
mother, but do nothing to hinder her coming;
you shall have your chance in turn. Be wise,
and when you get this do not fail to write me
and direct to the city of New York. Be a
good girl; May the Lord bless you and your
dear mother and brethren. As ever your af-
fectionate father,
					HEBER C. KIMBALL.
	A letter commenced by my mother June 9,
(the same day that father wrote the above,)
describes the scenes that were transpiring in
Nauvoo. She says:
	"Nauvoo was never so lonesome since we
lived here as it is now. I went to meeting last
Sunday for the first time since Conference. I
should have turned and come home on foot if
I had not been afraid it would make me sick.
Neither Joseph, Hyrum, nor any of the Twelve
were there, and you may be assured that I was
glad when meeting was over. Brother Joseph
Nobles is very kind to me; knowing that I am
not able to walk, he has invited me to ride with
his folks several times. Yesterday he took his
wife and me down to Hibbard's after cherries.
He took us to see Sarah (my father's wife),
who has been quite sick. I urged her to come
home with me, but she said she would rather
wait till she felt better; I expect her this week.
	"The weather continues cold and wet.
Bishop Whitney called in to-day; said he'd
been talking with Dr. Bernhisel—he thought
the quorum had better meet and pray for the
rain to be stayed, or we would all be sick.
	"June 11th. Nauvoo was a scene of ex-
citement last night. Some hundreds of the
brethren turned out and burned the printing
press of the opposite party. This was done by

[Column 2]
order of the City Council. They had only
published one paper (Nauvoo Expositor) which
is considered a public nuisance. They have
sworn vengeance, and no doubt they will
have it.
							"June 24th.
	"My Dear Husband.—Since I commenced
this letter varied and exciting indeed have
been the scenes in this city. I would have
sent this to you before this time, but I have
been thrown into such confusion I know not
what to write. Nor is this all; the mails do
not come regularly, having been stopped by
high water or the flood of mobocracy which
pervades the country. I have received no let-
ter by mail from you since you left. I know
your anxiety to hear from us must be very
great, as you will no doubt hear of our trouble
by report. Nothing is to be heard of but
mobs collecting on every side. The Laws and
Fosters and most of the dissenting party, with
their families, left here a day or two since. They
are sworn to have Joseph and the City Coun-
cil, or to exterminate us all. Between three
and four thousand brethren have been under
arms here the past week, expecting every day
the mob would come upon us. The brethren
from the country are coming in to aid in the
defense of our city. Brother Joseph sent a
message to the Governor, signifying if he and
his staff would come into the city he would
abide their decision; but instead of the Gover-
nor coming here, he went to Carthage, and
there walked arm in arm with Law and Foster,
until we have reason to fear he has caught
their spirit. He sent thirty men here day be-
fore yesterday to arrest Brother Joseph, with
an abusive letter, saying, if thirty men cannot
do the business thousands can, ordering the
brethren who had been ordered out to defend
the city against the mob to deliver up their
arms to their men and then disperse. Yester-
day morning (although it was Sunday) was a
time of great excitement. Joseph had fled
and left word for the brethren to hang on to
their arms and defend themselves as best they
could. Some were dreadfully tried in their
faith to think Joseph should leave them in the
hour of danger. Hundreds have left the city,
most of the merchants on the hill have left.
I have not felt frightened, neither has my
heart sunk within me till yesterday, when I
heard Joseph had sent word back for his family
to follow him, and Brother Whitney's family
were packing up, not knowing but they would
have to go, as he is one of the City Council.
For a while I felt sad enough, but did not let
anybody know it, neither did I shed any tears.
I felt a confidence in the Lord that He would
preserve us from the ravages of our enemies.
We expected them here to-day by the thou-
sands, but before night yesterday things put on
a different aspect—Joseph returned and gave
himself up for trial. He sent a messenger to
Carthage to tell the Governor he would meet
him and his staff at the big mound at eight
o'clock this morning, with all that the writ de-
manded. They have just passed here to meet
the Governor for that purpose. My heart said,
Lord, bless those dear men and preserve them
from those that thirst for their blood. What
will be their fate the Lord only knows, but I
trust He'll spare them. The Governor wrote
that if they did not give themselves up, our city
was suspended upon so many kegs of powder,
and it needed only one spark to touch them off.
If you were here you would be sure to be in
their midst, which would increase my anxiety.
	"Now, I must tell you the fluctuation of my
mind about going to meet you. Brother
Adams told me a week ago that he, having
been detained so long here, had concluded to
take his wife with him; said if Helen and I
would go with them he would agree to take us
to you; he had no money, but he was ac-
quainted with the captains of the different

[Column 3]
boats, and could go to Cincinnatti without
money—there he could get what he wanted.
He calculated then to be here last Friday and
stay till to-morrow, when we were to start on
the Ospry. I saw no prospect of going unless
I took up with his ofier. I asked counsel of
Bishop Whitney and others; they all advised
me to go, so I went to making ready with all
possible speed. But it was only three days be-
fore I heard they were going to write for all
the Twelve to come immediately home: I saw
Joseph passing by, and went out and asked
him if it was so. He said, yes; there was a
prospect of trouble, and said you were wanted
here, and you would want to be here. He also
said you had promised to return immediately
and fetch him some money. I felt so disap-
pointed that I could not help shedding a few
tears over it. Brother Willard Richards soon
came along and told me to cheer up, that he
did not apprehend any danger; said, "hold on
a few days, we shall not write quite yet at any
rate." So I took courage again, only to meet
another disappointment. He called Friday
and told me he had just dispatched a messen-
ger with letters to all the Twelve to come im-
mediately and fetch all the force with them
that they could raise. This messenger was to
take the first boat and go to St. Louis before
he mailed them, as it is of no use to mail them
here. I knew nothing to the contrary till
Saturday evening, when Brother Adams told
me that all was counteracted and they had con-
cluded not to send for you, and said—"Perhaps
we shall go yet." That is the last that I've seen
of him. He preached here yesterday and
started for home last evening. I understand
he has been appointed for another mission. So
I see no prospect of going East at present.	*	*
I can only say, may the Lord God bless and
preserve us all to meet again. I believe He
will. The children all send love and good
wishes to their dear father. Justin Johnson
will take this over the river and mail it for me,
so I will bid you farewell.
						VILATE KIMBALL."
To be Continued.


106	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Miss Emma Worthington of El Paso, Cala.
has been appointed a notary public.

	Mrs. Emily J. Fifield has been nominated by
the Boston Democrats for School Committee.

	A National Society for the advocacy of
Woman Suffrage has been established in Paris.

	All the doors that lead inward to the secret
place of the Most High are doors outward—
out of self, out of smallness, out of wrong.—
George MacDonald.

	Old age is the night of life, as night is the
old age of the day. Still, night is full of
magnificence; and for many it is more brilliant
than the day.—Mme. Swetchine.

	Kind words produce their own image in 
men's souls, and a beautiful image it is. They
soothe and comfort the hearer. They shame
him out of his unkind feelings. We have not
yet begun to use them in such abundance as
they ought to be used.—Pascal.

	THE BEAUTIFUL.—Whatever is beautiful is
refining. Whether in nature or in art, the
presence of the beautiful softens and purifies.
But let no young lady fall into the blunder
of supposing that only that which is expensive
can ever be beautiful. It is labor, care, skill,
an artistic eye, and a refined taste that beauti-
fy. Whether in home or in dress, in speech or
in manners, money is not the main thing which
provides the beautiful. The dowdy apparel of
many a slattern has cost more money by far
than the neat and beautiful garb of her indi-
gent but orderly neighbor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 107


THE APPROACH OF WINTER.

	The flower has closed,
	As God proposed;
The wind blows o'er the heather,
	Its little seeds
	Beneath the weeds
To shield them from the weather.

	The birds of spring
	Have taken wing,
And flown with heaven's guidance;
	Each coming dove,
	Emblem of love,
Has left with sweet reliance.

	But as these go,
	The pure, white snow,
In wond'rous crystals falling,
	Covers the ground
	For miles around,
A sheet about us drawing.

	The rich man's slave,
	And peasant's grave,
Lie 'neath its modest mantle:
	Its loving care
	We all will share,
And learn from its example.

	Blossoms of spring
	In autumn bring
Food for us through cold weather;
	Each season throws
	Sweet as it goes,
Each one and all together.

	Think not, nor grieve,
	When th' roses leave;
Winter will bring you sadness;
	'Tis nature's sleep,
	To rest and keep
Her charms for future gladness.

	Each season's joy
	We can employ
To make our pathway brighter;
	Nearing the end,
	Their blessings blend
To make life's burdens lighter.
				STEPHE S. BONBRIGHT


[Column 1]
THE BELLEVUE TRAINING SCHOOL
FOR NURSES.

	Under the title of "A New Profession for
Women," the Century for November has an
excellent article on the "Bellevue training
School for Nurses." As the paper is too
lengthy for our space, and loses much force
without the illustrations, we compile a few
facts of interest to our readers:
	Bellevue Hospital of New York needed a
reform in its system of nursing. This truth,
brought to the attention of the "Local Visit-
ing Committee of New York State Charities'
Aid Association, a committee composed of six-
ty members, chiefly ladies of high social posi-
tion and intelligence," resulted in the convic-
tion "that no improvement could be hoped for
in the management of the hospital until a com-
plete reform of the nursing should be effected,
and, inspired by the example and success of
similar work in England by Florence Night-
ingale, the founder of the modern system of
nursing, they set themselves to this task with
resolution, tact and intelligence." The obsta-
cles were many, but the "managers were only
thereby the more firmly convinced of the ne-
cessity of patient and persistent effort." "The
first step was to learn how to organize the
school in the best way, and for this end Dr. W.
Gill Wylie, of New York, volunteered to go to
Europe, at his own expense, to study the for-
eign systems. Upon his return, he brought a
cordial letter from Miss Nightingale, in which
she set forth the principles upon which the
management of the school has been based."
	"Voluntary subscriptions were called for and
made to the amount of $23,000, and a house
was rented near the hospital, in which the

[Column 2]
nurses should lodge and board." "At first, but
six pupils were obtained." The applicants
were required to have: "Good education, strong
constitution, freedom from physical defects,
including those of sight and hearing, and un-
exceptionable references. The course of train-
ing consists in dressing wounds, applying fo-
mentations, bathing and care of helpless pa-
tients, making beds, and managing positions.
Then follow the preparation and application of
bandages, making rollers and linings of splints.
The nurse must also learn how to prepare,
cook and serve delicacies for the invalid. In-
struction is given in the best practical meth-
ods of supplying fresh air, and of warming
and ventilating the sick-room. In order to re-
main through the two years' course and obtain
a diploma, still more is required, viz.: Exem-
plary deportment, patience, industry and obe-
dience."
	"The Nurses' Home," the headquarters of
the school, a large and handsome building,was
erected for the purpose and given to the school
by Mrs. W. H. Osborne." "Besides studying
from text books and attending a systematic
course of lectures, the pupils are occupied in
the care of the patients in the hospital."
	"The nurses at the Bellevue school may be
divided into two classes: those who study the
art of nursing with a view to gaining a liveli-
hood or supporting their families, and those
who look forward to a life of usefulness among
the poor sick. All are lodged and boarded
free of charge during the two years' course."
"During the nine years of its existence, 149
pupils have received diplomas, 78 of whom
are now practicing in New York City."
	Graduates have been called to be superin-
tendents of many institutions, and the demand
for trained nurses in private families is now
greater than the supply.
	There is no computing the good done by
these noble women who devised this scheme,
nor the good now being accomplished by the
scores of trained nurses and teachers this
school has sent out. They are the allies of the
physician, and none the less important. As
prepared for earning their living, they com-
mand good wages. As devoting their lives to
the care of the poor, no missionary to foreign
lands finds his labor more needed, or blessed of
the Master.—Gleaner, in Woman at Work.


DUTIES OF SAINTS.

	Those who enter into the waters of baptism
in this day, take upon themselves covenants
and obligations, enter upon duties whose mag-
nitude is appalling when viewed by mortal
eyes alone, and from an earthly standpoint. In
taking upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ
we verily and truly enter His service, enlist in
His cause, and our obligations are binding
even unto the death. But in this conflict we
depend not on the sword; famine, pestilence
and destruction are not the results of the war-
fare of the followers of Christ. The armor to
be borne in His cause is Truth, with the host of
emissaries of which are Faith, Charity, In-
tegrity, Patience, Humility, etc., weapons that
can only be obtained by pure lives and honest
hearts, and to keep them and be able to use
them rightly, requires constant diligence and
watchfulness, with mighty prayer for strength
and wisdom. Jesus came to redeem the world
from the Fall, to atone for the sins of
mankind, and open the way for their return
back to the Father, and to establish on earth
the principles of the Gospel; yet, according to
His own words, "the foxes have holes, the birds
of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath
not where to lay His head;" so that His king-
dom had not then come.
	After His crucifixion, His followers carried
on the work He had begun, establishing


churches in various lands. and striving to per-
fect the Saints in the principles of Truth, in
the face of fearful persecution and opposition,
and their labors were great and their efforts
noble to preserve on earth the Gospel of their
Master. But its doctrines and ordinances were
changed and perverted by men, until the true
plan of salvation was lost on earth, and confu-
sion, doubt and uncertainty have reigned for
many hundred years.
	Now again the Father and the Son have
spoken, the word has gone forth for the fulfill-
ment of all prophecy that has been uttered
concerning this world. Not only is the true
Church to be established, but God's Kingdom
is to be built up and sustained, for it is no
more to be thrown down, nor taken from the
earth.
	The Gospel has to be preached to every na-
tion, kindred, tongue and people, and His
children to be gathered from whithersoever
they have been scattered. Think of it,Saints!
and ask yourselves if you have any time to
waste in folly and things that amount to
nought.
	The veterans who commenced this great
work of the latter days have labored nobly
and faithfully, but they are passing away from
earth, one by one, to rest for a season, and the
vacancies must be filled—the work must not
slacken nor cease, until it is completed, and
the Kingdom ready for its King, the Saints
gathered, perfected and prepared to meet Him.
										H.


HOW TO SPOIL YOUR CHILDREN.—Make
them'as much afraid of you as possible on all
occasions.
	Fly into a violent passion with them several
times a day.
	Whip them soundly if they break some
trifle by accident.
	If they smash it purposely, do not pretend
you see it.	
	Don't be foolish enough to enter into their
childish sports.
	When they ask for information, tell them to
shut up their mouths.
	Never take the least notice of their little
childish sorrows.
	Give them to understand that it is pretty to
say pert things.
	Always take their part against teachers,
governesses, etc.
	Try to forget as much as possible that you
were ever young yourself.
	When they amuse theemselves torturing ani-
mals, look on and laugh.
	Always tell them to hit back when annoyed
by neighboring children.
	Tell them all the lies you like, and half kill
them if they tell you one.
	When they tell you they won't do a thing,
laugh at it and let it go.
	When they fall and hurt themselves, scold
them for their awkwardness.
	Give them expensive trifles to play with, and
raise Cain if they break one.
	Dress them in such style that they will be
afraid to play for fear of spoiling their clothes.
	Make religion such a long-faced, poky thing
that they'll hate the name of it as long as they
live.
	Tell them it is a sin to be dishonest, but if
they bring you back too much change from the
grocer's, keep it, and tell them to say nothing
about it.
	Threaten to tell their father and get them,
punched for every blessed thing they do, so
that by degrees they will come to the conclu-
sion that a father is some sort of a whipping
machine.
	If you feel a little hand trying to nestle in
yours, or a little arm trying to twine itself
around your neck, give a growl and snarl but
something about wanting to be let alone.


108	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY.	DECEMBER 15, 1882.


CHRISTMAS IS COMING.

	ONE of the most satisfactory days in all the
year is Christmas, when everybody tries to bless
everybody else, and especially the poor or un-
fortunate, and to bring smiles and happiness in-
to every heart and home. A fitting tribute to
the memory of the blessed Redeemer is to do
some of the works He spent his life in doing;
blessing mankind, ministering to the suffering,
alleviating sorrow; promoting peace and follow-
ing his perfect example. Carrying out for one
day in the year at least the precept "Do unto others
as ye would they should do to you." And in
this way are treasures laid up in heaven; which
is another precept of the same great Teacher.
Many little children think of Christmas only as
a gala day, on which they are to have every-
thing that is good to eat (and lots of things that
are not good for them) and everything done for
their pleasure; and very often forget to do any
one good thing for any other person. Little
children should be taught that on that day par-
ticularly it is proper,and indeed a duty to minister
in some way to those who are not so highly
favored as themselves. To make some little
sacrifice for another's good. To divide something
with another child, or aged person. A very pro-
per thing to teach children to do is that of help-
ing to bring sunshine into the life of those who
have lived on into "the sere and yellow leaf,"
and need the warmth of young lives to quicken
their pulses temporarily. If more attention
was given to this matter it would be a source of
great happiness to the aged. Many of them
have not grandchildren of their own crowding
around their homes to wait upon and caress
them, and they need tenderness and loving care
for are they not feeble and weak, and many
years and much trial has made them weary.
	Encourage the children to show them favor as
well as respect, and see that some tangible kind-
ness is bestowed by the young and beautiful.
One of the most elevating traits of human char-
acter is the reverence for age; above all chil-
dren in the world the children of Zion should be
instructed in this pleasant duty. The associa-
tion of little children is specially delightful to
people far advanced in years, not to weary them
with noise and confusion, but a little gaiety and
mirthfulness is like an elixir to their drooping
spirits. Christmas is the very time to perform
noble deeds, and mingled with festivity and
song and the bounties of earth, will be the hap-
py feeling that comes from blessing others.
Keeping Christmas is a grand custom, and one
which should be continued, but it ought not to be
a strain upon the family for weeks before hand
to contrive how to economize sufficiently to
make expensive presents. This in the present
day seems to be carried to the extreme. Moder-
ation in all things is wiser than excess, and hap-
piness is not heightened so much by extrava-
gant luxuries and presents, as in that which pro-


motes peace and contentment. Solomon says,
"A contented mind is a continual feast." Peace
and good will were the tidings brought when
Christ was born, and these to all mankind. On
Christmas day reach out the olive branch, bury
all old grievances and feuds and begin anew,
ready to make a better record for another year.
	A merry Christmas and a happy one to alI
our friends, in every iand and clime, at home
and abroad, the Exponent bear the message
over land and sea, and into many sunny homes.


UTAH'S DELEGATE.

[From the Congressional Record, Dec. 5.]

	"The petition of the undersigned respectfully
shows: that he is the delegate elected for the
Territory of Utah for the Forty-eighth Con-
gress.

	"That at the last session of the present Con-
gress the seat of Delegate for said Territory to
the Forty-seventh Congress was declared vacant,
and the people of said Territory are now unrep-
resented.

	Prior to the election held on the first Monday
in November, 1882, the Governor of said Terri-
tory was requested to call an election, to elect a
Delegate for said Territory for the unexpired
term of the Forty-seventh Congress, but refused
on the ground that he had no power in that re-
spect.

	A like request was made to the commissioners
of elections for said Territory appointed by the
President of the United States, under what is
known as the Edmunds bill, and they refused
on the same ground.

	At the election held November 7,1882, to elect
a Delegate to the Forty-eighth Congress, your
petitioner received 15,490 votes for the office of
Delegate for the unexpired term of the Forty-
seventh Congress, and to fill the vacancy exist-
ing in said office.

	The commissioners of elections for said Terri-
tory, as will appear from a copy of their instruc-
tions annexed, refused to canvass or allow said
notes to be officially canvassed or an official re-
turn thereof made, on the ground that their
power did not extend to that subject.

	The number of votes so cast and the fact that
the voting for Delegate to fill that vacancy was
quite general throughout the Territory, will ap-
pear from the affidavits of precinct judges of
elections, and a summary thereof hereto an-
nexed.

	Inasmuch as the people of said Territory are
entitled to representation in your honorable
body, and under the construction of the law by
the governor and commissioners there seems to
be no way provided for calling such an election,
your petitioner submits that the voluntary and
general expression of the will of the people
through the ballot-box is the best and only ob-
tainable manner of filling said vacancy, and re-
quests that he may be declared entitled to a seat
as Delegate for said Territory for the unexpired
term of the Forty-seventh Congress."

	Washington. 13.—Members of ihe House elec-
tions committee, who have examined the me-
morial presented to Congress against the seating
of Caine, the delegate elected from Utah to suc-
ceed Cannon, say that it involves a nice legal
question, and one which will excite almost end-
less discussion when the matter comes before the
House. The election was held without any pre-
vious proclamation by the Governor of the Ter-
ritory, and the question involved is as to the
right of the people of the Territory to hold an
election under such circumstances.


DESERT HOSPITAL.

	This institution, which was established July
15, 1882, is now supplying a long-felt need of the
people, and is all that it claims to be, a home for
the sick and injured. It is centrally and pleas-
antly located, with plenty of fresh air and a
good water supply. The set of surgical and
gynceological instruments is a complete one, the
best that could be obtained, while a pharmaceu-
tical department connected with the hospital
furnishes the necessary drug supply.
	The head nurse is a woman of skill and ex-
perience, having served five years in two of the
largest hospitals in Stockholm. We also have
an efficient night nurse, who has served in one
of the same hospitals two years and a half.
These nurses speak the English as well as their
native language.

	The visiting surgeons' hours are between 11
o'clock a. m. and 1 o'clock p. m. Those wishing
to consult with Dr. W. F. Anderson should visit
th Hospital during the above hours.
	The average monthly attendance of patients
since the organization of the hospital has been
from twelve to twenty. Since November 1st
the medical rates have been reduced. In spe-
cially complicated cases additionol charges are
made. Specially low rates can be made with
Bishops for indigent parties residing in their
Wards, by consulting with Dr. Mattie Paul
Hughes, the house surgeon.
	The wards are substantially and comfortably
furnished with iron bedsteads and other suitable
conveniences, and the hospital will now accom
modate from thirty to thirty-five patients.
					E. R. S. SMITH, President.
					E. B. WELLS, Secretary.
				In behalf of the executive board.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A SPECIAL Conference palled by the Presi-
dency of this Stake of Zion was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall Tuesday and Wednesday,
Dec. 12 and 13, meetings commencing at 10
o'clock a. m. and 2 and 7 p. m. each day. Much
excellent instruction has been given, especially
to the Priesthood and to Bishops and those who
preside in the several Wards, prest. John Tay-
lor, Prest. Joseph F. Smith, Prest A. M. Can-
non, Counselor D. H. Wells and other leading
men have addressed the people. Most of the
Bishops made verbal reports of their respective
Wards.

	TO-DAY the Relief Society Conference of this
Stake of Zion, will be held in the Council House
in this city.

	THE ladies' "Unity Club" are busy preparing
for their entertainment which will be held soon,
although the date of the event has been changed
to January. It will consist of tableaux, music
and recitations, by members of the Club. Miss
Ada Dwyer, the talented elocutionist, will ap-
pear in the "role" Miss Priscilla Jennings, Miss
Agnes Olsen and Miss Louie Wells will sing;
Mrs. Cummings (Della Clawson), a great favor-
ite of the Salt Lake Theatre lovers, will take
part in the programme, and others, well known
as talented young ladies. As the entertainment
is known to be for a charitable purpose, we trust
it will receive the patronage which will make
it a financial success as we feel sure, from the ex-
ecutive ability of the committee of arrange-
ments, it certainly will be in point of merit.

	THE city presents quite a festive appearance
in anticipation of Christmas, and each shop
seems to vie with the neigboring ones in en-
ticing Santa Claus to purchase from their stock,
Christmas trees are coming in daily and already


some are being decorated for the little people.
Shop windows are making a fine display of staple
products for the joy and comfort of man, as well
as toys and all manner of gift articles for the
little people. The milliners’ shops have the
prettiest feathers and ribbons, the most elegant
bonnets and hats for ladies and children.

	SAVAGE'S Art Gallery has a large show win-
dow devoted entirely to dolls of all sizes and
kinds and prices, and there are also many other
handsome articles that are useful as well as or-
namental, too numerous to mention. Pictures
of every conceivable variety suitable for the
cottage or the palatial mansion. Toilet goods of
choice kinds and good quality, stationery in
abundance, and an excellent assortment of
books, writing desks, work boxes, plaques and
materials for painting of all kinds.

	THE book store of Mr. James Dwyer presents
a very fine appearance. It is almost impossible
to mention any article in his line of goods that
the store is not supplied with, of the best quali-
ty too. His illustrated books of poems, bound
in the newest style and of expensive material,
are elegant, and fit to adorn any drawing room
and interest and entertain the most fastidious
people. Single books and sets of books and his-
tories of all countries, the best books by the best
authors, can all be purchased at Dwyer’s. Work
boxes and writing desks, reticules and satchels,
money purses, and diaries, and in fact every-
thing of this kind that can be purchased in the
large cities. He keeps the largest assortment of
toys in the city. School books and stationery
add to his immense stock of holiday goods.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 109


IMPROMPTU.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	You asked me to write something for the Ex-
ponent, but I laconically said "I pass"—yet my
mind seems full, "pressed down, and running
over" with a heterogeneous mass—something re-
sembling that which we behold in the kalaide-
scope, needing a hand to turn it to that focus
that produces form and order, and hence beauty;
but an inertia, or will power, is wanting, or
something, I hardly know what name to give it,
to produce a palpable and beautiful figure, and
so I declined to write. But sitting alone with
my own thoughts this evening, and thinking
upon the refusal I had given you (not unkindly,
but simply, honestly), my mind ran out upon
the conviction of what a mysterious, marvelous
construction the human mind is! I can say
with Sterne, in his abrupt but beautiful way, "I
know that I have a soul! nor can any writer,
however metaphysical or ingenious he may be,
convince me to the contrary." Most true! there
is the voice of my spirit, with whom I hold an
eternal communion—yes, we two beings hold
marvelous spiritual intercourse! the spirit takes
the Rostrum, the earthly the Auditorium.
Hours pass, days and years have passed, but the
interviewing never "breaks up," except in sleep,
and even in the land of dreams it sometimes goes
on. It speaks in whisperings, not heard by the
natural ear, and in a language not of letters, and
of syllables, but as an intuition, a something
heard and comprehended without articulation or
palpable demonstration; in this way my mind is
at the present time full, but it needs to be SIM-
MERED down into a tangible form,and this process
takes away much that is beautiful.
	We poets know well that our most glorious
visions will not live again, even upon the most
gifted lyre, but some have the faculty to make
tangible much more than others; but it will re-
quire the harp of the Seraph to improvise the
heart songs and aspirations of the Saints of God!
This spirit of mine, whose Father is God, whis-


pers much to me that my understanding does
not grasp; it sheds a revivifying, elevating in-
fluence around and about me, but I cannot re-
duce it to a language, even for my own ear. But
at moments a valve seems opened, and through
it a lightning flash is emitted, an idea escapes,
and eagerly and lovingly I endeavor to enrobe it
in language, even for my own ear. But
at moments a valve seems opened, and through
it a lightning flash is emitted, an idea escapes,
and eagerly and lovingly I endeavor to enrobe it
in language suitable, but oh! how unworthy of
it! Well I know this capability must be for the
grand future, the great beyond; but all this gives
an assurance of the infinite nature which at
present, for the want of a more appropriate
name, we call human. As I write, my mind
seems to open upon the infinitude of the mighti-
ness of this immortal mind, which has been
often laid open to the world, and millions have
bent before the grand display, and been elevated
and invigorated by the same; and the whole
earth itself has been enlightened as with the
electric light of heaven, for it was all an emana-
tion from the eternal fountain, and an echo of
that breathing voice that said, "Let there be
light!" And these glorious minds, in their
transit over this earth, have left a train of light,
like the flashing meteor, leaving the eye as it
were dazzled with their lustre.
	Who dares to say mind and spirit die and are
extinct? Rather say their immortality began
on earth and gave ample assurance that it is
"eternal in the heavens."
	Good night, dear. May choirs of angels sing
you to your rest.
				Your friend,
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 11.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

	I feel it my painful duty to announce through
the Exponent the departure of my dear and only
sister, Elizabeth P. Bentley, from this vale of
tears to a holier sphere. Her pure and gentle
spirit left its earthly tabernacle on the morning
of December 6, at 5 o’clock. The funeral took
place yesterday at 12 m. The stores and busi-
ness houses were closed and the Temple hands
were released at that hour so that all could at-
tend,she having been one of their number. Her
remains were borne to the Tabernacle by her
three sons, two sons-in-law and a grandson.
	Our family were sorely stricken with grief,
but the brethren, those men of God, Prest.
McAllister, Bishops, Bro. J. G. Bleak, and
others, poured in the balm of consolation. Af-
ter singing hymn on 144th page, "Weep not,"
Bro. Bleak offerred a very touching prayer.
Bishop Cannon then arose and stated, after ask-
ing the aid of the Spirit, that he had known
Sister Bentley as long as he could remember,
and that when her husband was sent on a mis
sion in the fall of 1860, and was absent four
years, leaving her in adverse circumstances with
a family of little children, she labored faithfully
in keeping school for their support, and never
faltered, although in delicate health. She was
a woman of integrity and worthy of emulation.
	Counselor Eyring made a few remarks. Said
he was unable to give satisfaction to his feelings,
but felt to endorse what had been said by Bro.
Cannon. Made some further remarks and spoke
of the good qualities of our departed sister, and
exhorted the Saints to diligence.
	Bro. Gates then arose, and said: We had come
together as a band of Brothers and Sisters to
bid farewell to Sister Bentley, and pay our last
respects to the dead. Spoke of the principles of
the Gospel. Said our departed Sister would be
long remembered by her many friends in this
place.
	Bro. McArthur had known Sister Bentley for
the last twenty years, and was acquainted with
her good works, and that she would come forth
in the morning of the first resurrection.

[Column 2]
	Prest. McAllister made the closing remarks.
In speaking of the departed one, said he wished
to speak of her virtues. He knew her before
she came here. She was honored at the first
calling of ordinance workers to officiate in the
St. George Temple by Prest. B. Young, who
called her with others to labor for the living and
the dead. She had ever been ready to come and
to go in the faithful discharge of her duties in
the Relief Societies in this Stake of Zion and
otherwise. Her example had been most ex-
emplary. She had been faithful and had re-
ceived the promise, benefit and blessing of every
ordinance which God has revealed for the salva-
tion and exaltation of the righteous. Said he
had talked to her and knew her feelings in rela-
tion to Celestial marriage by her own testimony
to him; he knew she accepted it in her feelings.
Then quoted an address given to the Church by
Joseph Smith, the Prophet, dated Nauvoo, Sept.
6, 1842, of glorious provisions made in the Gos-
pel of Christ for the salvation and exaltation of
the dead. Exhorted the Saints to emulate the
virtues of the deceased. Prayed that the Lord
might comfort the hearts of the bereaved hus-
band and kindred.
	Singing, "God of all consolation take"—
	Benediction by Bro H. W. Platt.
	We then proceeded to the graveyard, where
the mortal remains were deposited by the side of
seven of her grandchildren who had gone be-
fore. A dedicatory prayer was offered at the in-
terment, by Bro, J. G. Bleak. By request of
Bro. Bentley, Bishop Cannon returned thanks
to the brethren and sisters for their kindness to
himself and family.		M. A. P. HYDE.


FOREIGN LETTER.
				___
	CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand,
					November 1, 1882.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	At a Conference of the Australasian mission
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints held at Christchurch, on October 22d, a
Relief Society report was presented and a unan-
imous wish expressed that a copy thereof be for-
warded for publication in the EXPONENT.
	Permit me to add, I have met with several
numbers of the EXPONENT in this far off land,
and always note with pleasure the good results
in those who read its truthful pages.
	Wishing you continued success in your efforts
In the defence of religious liberty for all people
of either sex, I remain, respectfully, your co-
laborer in the good cause.
				WILLIAM M. BROMLEY,
		President of the Australasian Mission..


OBITUARIES.

	Died at Salt Lake City, in the Deseret Hospital,
November 2d, 1882, of dropsy and heart disease, Maria
Wilkinson Horton, wife of John Horton, of Rockport,
Summit Co. Aged 52 years and 3 months, was buried
at Rockport, Summit Co., her home. She was the
mother of eleven children, seven of whom are left with
her husband and many relatives and friends to mourn
her loss. She was born in South Lincolnshire, England;
was baptized February 18th, 1856, by Lorenza D. Rudd,
at Hull, Yorkshire, England; came to Utah in 1861 in
Captain Joseph Rawlins company; settled in Summit
Co., where she joined the Rockport Relief Society at its
organization, in March, 1873, filling the office of teacher,
which she honorably held the rest of her life. She was
much beloved by all who knew her, and died in hope of
a glorious resurrection. Her good deeds will live though
she has passed from our sight. Well may it be said of
her, "Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord."
	Weep not for me, my children dear,
		For grief it is in vain;
	Christ is our hope, we need not fear,
		We all shall meet again.
			ANN BRYANT, Prest.
			SARAH STAKER, Sec.


[Column 1]
	Margaret Morris Mathews, wife of Hopkin Mathews
of Providence, was born on the 26th of August, 1821, in
the town of Pontycats, Caermarthanshire, South Wales.
April 3d, 1844, she became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the first female in the
valley of Aberdare, Glanmorganshire, which principles
sustained her in life, and made her hopeful in death. She
emigrated in the year 1856 with her husband and five
little children; crossed the sea in the "Escurling;" over
the plains in Edward Buuker's handcart company; made
her home in Ogden City, in the spring of 1859, she
moved to Providence, in Cache Valley, with her husband
and family, being one of the first settlers in this place.
Whether we regard Sister Mathews as a wife, a mother,
a friend or a Latter-day Saint, we shall find her promi-
nent among her sex. As a wife, she was the helpmate
and couselor of her husband in sickness, poverty and
distress. Her advice was never disregarded, for it ema-
nated from a mind wise and thoughtful to a high degree.
As a mother, she was kind and solicitous to a fault; few
women have been so blessed in their children; she was
the mother of thirteen children, four sons and nine
daughters, and grandmother to thirty-one children, all
of whom gathered about her bed in her last sickness;
only three out of her family of children have gone be-
fore her. As a friend, she will be forever remembered by
those who have experienced her sympathy and kindness;
she had words of hope for the downcast, elevation for
the afflicted, and a benevolent heart that was always
seeking out objects of charity; her memory will live
long in Providence; she was, indeed, its mother. As a
Latter-day Saint, Sister Mathews was a shining exam-
ple of meekness, simplicity and virtue. In all of her
hours of trial, sickness and poverty, and she had many
such during the early years of her life, she was sustained
by an unfaltering trust that illuminated her spirit, even
in death ever ready to do good day and night, and al-
ways willing to be useful. It could be said of her as
was said of one of old, she touched nothing that she did
not adorn. The 4th of November, she was at Logan, in
Conference, when she was struck with paralysis in her
right side; she was taken home by Brother Mathews; her
family gathered around, also many of the sisters and
brethren to administer to her wants. She was quick and
sensitive to the very last. Twenty minutes to 11 o'clock
p.m., Nov. 14th, she breathed her last. She was Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Providence, which position
she held for nearly thirteen years, and which duty she
performed faithful and true. The corpse was carried to
the meetinghouse by her sons, grandsons and sons-in-
law; next, the relatives, and then the teachers of the
Relief Society, two and two. The speakers on this occa-
sion were Frederic Theurer, Wm. Smith, John F. Maddi-
son, Chas. B. Robbin and W. W. Low. They gave some
very instructive counsel on the occasion, and urged the
people to follow the example of the departed. From
the services to the cemetery followed thirty-one vehicles,
and she was iaid to rest from the toils and care of this
life, and indeed she rests for the first time in twenty-two
years of my acquaintance with her. "Peace to her
ashes."						EMILY MADDISON.

	DIED in Harrisville, Weber Co., Utah, October 5, 1882,
at 1.10 a. m., of small-pox, Lucy Ann, wife of Richard
D. Brown, Jr., aged 32 years and 10 months, leaving a
husband, four children, and a host of relatives and
friends to mourn her loss. The youngest child being
less than two years old. Sister Lucy was the daughter
of the present President of the Relief Society of Slater-
ville, Mother Field, and was born in the Church, at
Bloomington, Iowa, Nov. 30th, 1849, her father dying
three weeks prior to her birth, leaving the care of raising
a large family upon the mother; who brought them to
the Valley, and settled in Slaterville, Weber Co., thirty
years ago. Deceased was baptized a member of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight
years old, and in her maiden days taught school in
Slaterville. She was married to R. D. Brown, in the En-
dowment House, Salt Lake City, December 5th, 1870,
residing in Harrisville since that time. She was a social
friend, an affectionate daughter, a worthy mother and
loving wife. None knew her but to respect her, and her
departure is widely felt. She was a member and senior
teacher in the Ladies' Bible Class in our Sunday School,
and has been a member and acting Secretary of the
Relief Society since the first organization in the ward.
She passed off in peace in an apparent slumber, without
a struggle; she was buried on their own place the same
morning, the only mourners to follow her to her last
resting-place were her husband, her children, and a
number of her relatives standing a distance off, thus

[Column 2]
showing their regards to the respected dead. Elder Wm.
England, of Plain City, taking charge of the interment.
She was buried in full temple clothing. Brother England
remarked that she was being rather roughly laid away,
but she would arise in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion full of honor, as effulgent as the sun at noonday.
			MRS. MELISSA A. SHURTLIFF, Prest.
			MISS ANNIE E. SHURTLIFF, Sec.
[Utah papers please copy.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R S., Y. L. M. I. AAND PRIMARY
	REPORTS.
MESA CITY.
	A brief report of the quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society, which was held at Mesa,
Sept. 30, commencing at 10 a.m.
	Present on the stand: The officers of the
Mesa and Jonesville Relief Societies; also
President MacDonald and some others of the
brethren; President Phelps presiding.
	Meeting opened in the usual manner with
singing and prayer. After which the minutes
of the previous June Conference were read and
accepted.
	President Phelps requested Bro. MacDonald
to address the meeting. He excused himself
for the present, wishing to hear from the sis-
ters first, after which he would respond. The
following sisters arose and made encouring re-
marks and bore faithful testimonies: Susan-
nah Brady, Lizzie MacDonald, Biggs, Hibbard,
Jones, Savage, Harper, Longmore, Steele,
Elizabeth MacDonald, Fanny MacDonald,
and Hannah Peterson.
	President Phelps felt indignant when she
read in the papers of the course our enemies
were taking to bring trouble upon our people
in Utah, but said our trust is in God. All we
have to fear is ourselves; let us be faithful to
our duties and all will be right.
	Bro. David Savage then made some very en-
couraging and instructive remarks.
	President MacDonald gave some very good
instructions. The principles we have embraced
are dear to our hearts, and it is the duty of
mothers to instil these principles into the
minds of their children, that they may escape
the evil influences that are striving to over-
throw the work of God on the earth. Pray for
each other, be charitable and kind, overlook-
ing each other’s failings, and let us live above
the evil influence that surrounds us.
	Singing and benediction. Conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon meeting. Usual opening-exer-
cises.
	Bro. David  Savage occupied a portion of
the afternoon in a very interesting manner; re-
ferred to some of the prophecies of Isaiah;
thought that a great many of them were about
to be fulfilled. Said the first steps towards
apostacy consisted in finding fault with the
Priesthood. Said, sisters, if you see your hus-
bands giving way to this spirit, it is your duty
to rebuke them; avoid a fault-finding and
slanderous spirit, for it leads to great evil;
teach your children faith in God. Referred to
the great faith of the army of Helaman, who
were taught the principle of faith by their
mothers, that not one of them were slain in the
great battle with the Lamanites. Closed by
praying that the spirit and power of Elijah’s
God might rest upon the sisters.
	President MacDonald occupied the remain-
der of the afternoon in a very instructive dis-
course, on the many and varions duties per-
taining to our society. Spoke of the import-
ance of making covenants, and when we raise
our hands to sustain a person in any office in
the Church, said there is a power goes with it
more than we have any idea of. Visit the sis-
ters who are not with you, and encourage
them to come to meeting. Let the young sis-
ters join with you until they can be organized
in a society of their own. Spoke of the beau-
ties of union and co-operation, when carried
out to the fullest extent. Said some of the
prophecies were about to be fulfilled concern-
ing the test that was to come to this people,
when we have got to show our true colors and
show who and what we are, whether for God
or not. Exhorted us to seek the spirit of rev-
elation and use wisdom in all our acts. Said
some were poor in clothing, but rich in faith,
while others were rich in clothing but poor in
faith. Felt to invoke the blessing of God upon
all those who were striving to perform the du-
ties of their calling.
	It was moved and seconded that Sister Eliz-
abeth G. MacDonald be appointed to preside
over the Relief Societies in this district; car-
ried unanimously. The officers of the several
societies were also unanimously sustained by
the Conference.
	After some business was transacted, the
Conference adjourned sine die.
	Singing. Benediction.
		Sabah M. Pomeboy,
			Secretary pro tem,
[line break]
ORANGEVILLE, EMEBY COUNTY.
Dear Sister.—I am pleased to inform you
that we have a Relief Society here in the
Orangeville Ward, organized August 27th,
1882. Caroline Curtis, president; Sarah Ann
Fullmer and Ellen Robertson, counselors; Jo-
anna P. Curtis, secretary; Elizabeth Reid,
treasurer, and all the necessary officers be-
longing to the society. We are feeling well in
the good work, and hope to improve. We
pray for the welfare of Zion and all our sisters
in this glorious cause.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
				JOANNA P. CURTIS,
						Secretary.
				____
			NEW ZEALAND.
	Report of the Canterbury, New Zealand,
Relief Society of the Church-of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.
	The Relief Society was organized at Christ-
church, on the 26th of December, 1879, by
Elders Shreeve and P. J. Nordstrand; Sister
James set apart president and Sisters Larsen
and Doak first and second counselors. In
consequence of the President gathering home
to Zion, the society was reorganized, and now
consists of officers as follows: Johanna Larsen,
President; Olina Nordstrand first and Emma
Rogers second counselors; Louisa Porter, sec-
retary; Louise Rogers, treasurer. Total num-
ber of members, 13. The sisters here live in
a very scattered condition, and consequently
the attendance is not as regular as could be
desired, though tolerably good considering the
many disadvantages they have to contend
with. The meetings are held on the last Mon-
day of each month. Up to Sept. 5, 1881, the
meetings were held on the first Monday of the
month, but the change was made to suit the
convenience of one of the sisters who lives 18
miles from the place of holding meeting, who
could not otherwise attend.
	The sisters are united and attend to their
duties; they meet and encourage each other,
and advise for the best; each breathe a kind,
charitable feeling and manifest a desire to as-
sist in rolling on the work of God.
	There is a society fund, to which the mem-
bers contribute as their circumstances will al-
low; this enables us to assist those who are in
need of pecuniary aid.
	We desire to emulate our sisters at home in
their labors of love, and ask them to remember
us in their meetings and give us their faith and
prayers.
	The contributions to the society to date
amount to [english pound]2 5s., of this amount [english pound]1 13s. has
been appropriated to aid missionaries and the


needy in our midst, leaving a balance on hand
of 12s.
	We desire to express our appreciation of the
instructions given by the brethren who have
visited our meetings. Their timely counsels
and explanation of our duties has made plain
the road which leads to eternal bliss, and ena-
bled us at times by the eye of faith to obtain
a glimpse of woman's lot in the great plan of
salvation.
	THE EXPONENT has also assisted us greatly
in our studies, its welcome pages being always
replete with good instruction and wise sugges-
tions. We do cheerfully recommend it to all
and invite a careful perusal of its pages.
		LOUISA PORTER, Secretary.
		JOHANNA LARSEN, President.
	Christchurch, Oct. 22, 1882.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ARE WIVES SUPPORTED?

	Among the amusing paragraphs lately cir-
culated in the variety column of newspapers is
one which contains a deeper lesson than they
can ordinarily boast of. "A husband adver-
tised in the Sheffield Daily Telegraph, England,
that he, Thomas A—, would no longer be
answerable for the debts incurred by his wife.
The wife retorted: 'This is to certify that I,
Elizabeth A—, am able to pay my own
debts, now that I have got shut of Tommy.'"
	This retort is a very pointed comment upon
the theory that has prevailed up to the present
day, namely, that the husband was the bread-
winner and stay of the household, and that the
subordinate members, including the wife and
children were supported by him; unprofitable
members of the community, consumers in-
stead of producers. To what degree is this
true, and to how great an extent are the wives
of all the great working classes, who form the
bone and sinew of English life, supported by
their husbands?
	The passing of the Married Women's Pro-
perty Act, which has so gloriously disting-
uished the Parliamentary session of this year,
has been the means of securing property to
the amount of many millions into the hands of
women, hitherto unjustly deprived of its con-
trol. The previous Act of 1870, now included
in the larger Act, had proclaimed the right of
a married woman to the wages which she had
earned by her own labor. No one doubts, the
justice of these two measures, or if a few speci-
mens of that nearly extinct species, the believ-
ers in the divine right of husbands, still exist,
they are dying away, and the next generation
will know them no more. But between the
women who possess inherited property, and the
women who, from the improvidence or incapa-
city of their husbands, are obliged to leave
their homes to earn wages for the support of
the family, there is the still larger class who
find occupation for their fullest energies in the
home itself, in cooking, scouring, making and
mending their husbands' and children's clothes,
and bearing, nursing, and sometimes teaching
the children. The question arises: Are these
women supported? Are they only consumers,
or a most important section of the producers
of the country's wealth? Do they do anything
to earn their own living, and, if so, how can it
be secured to them?
	A young man and woman agree to marry,
and they bring into the joint partnership, not
real or personal property, inherited or acquired,
but their heads and hands only. The man's
head and hands are occupied out of doors; he
is the visible wage-earner; he works ten or
twelve hours and brings home enough, if he
does not spend it at the public-house, to buy
necessaries for the family. Perhaps by extra
industry on his part, or extra good manage-
ment on hers, he saves and puts by money.
She, on her part, has kept a decent and com-

[Column 2]

fortable home for him, has laid out his earn-
ings for their mutual benefit, and has borne
and brought up their family of children, and,
as any one who has been in like circumstances
will acknowledge, has worked not only through
the day of twelve hours, but half the night
also. She has labored in her own vocation as
hard as he has; she has economised, contrived,
schemed, saved, giving the whole of her time
and brains to the common stock, and he has
done no more. And yet the ordinary theory is
that this woman is supported all her life, and
the law, even this law, which is incomparably
juster and more generous than any that has
hitherto been known in England, and which
we have no thought of undervaluing, gives her
no joint right to the income of the family; she
has only the right, which her husband recipro-
cally enjoys, of receiving a pauper's mainten-
ance from him.
	In many cases the unpaid partner of the do-
mestic firm does more than the household
work, though this seems a fair day's measure
for any individual's brain or hands. If they
keep a little shop, she looks after it; if a farm,
she makes the butter, fattens the fowls, or feeds
the calves. To quote again from the wisdom
of the newspaper corners: "A Western man
having lost his wife, a sympathizing friend re-
marked upon his woe-begone appearance.
'Well, I guess you would look thin, too," was
the melancholy rejoinder, 'if you had to get up
before daylight, make the fires, draw water,
split wood, and feed the cattle before breakfast.
I tell you what it is, if I don't get sombody
to fill poor, dear, sainted Maria's place, I
shall be resting by her side before many
weeks.'"
	It is notorious that in the agricultural
States of the Union, where labor is dear, the
farmers' wives take an extensive share in the 
farming operations, besides the house work.
We heard a few weeks ago of one of these
"supported" wives in Kentucky, who, after get-
ting breakfast for her husband and four chil-
dren, picked 135 pounds of cotton before
noon, came home and prepared the family din-
ner, returned to the field and picked 115
more pounds of cotton, and reached the house
again in time to cook supper. This instance
might be repeated a thousand times in Indi-
ana, Iowa, Kansas, etc. Hard as the farmer's
life is, that of the farmer's wife is confessedly
much harder. Besides her own work, she often
takes part in every agricultural operation car-
ried on at the farm. She is frequently killed
by the drudgery, and the statistics of the in-
sane asylums show that a majority of the fe-
male patients come from this overworked class,
and yet these women are "supported" and can-
not claim one shilling as their own out of the
family earnings.
	This seems to us incompatible with common
sense and common justice. During recent
years a good deal of attention has been directed
towards the injurious practice of women con-
tinuing their work in factories or workshops
after they are married. It is contended, and
with much truth, that the husband's wages are
calculated on a scale sufficient to support the
family, and that the physical and moral inter-
ests of the household will suffer if she gives her
time and strength to work which takes her
from home. There is much to be said from
this view, but there is this great difference to
the woman. She goes not only from one kind
of work to another, but from paid work to un-
paid work; from being a self-supporting laborer
she becomes "supported."
	If we could suppose, for the sake of argu-
ment, that all the married women in England
neglected or refused to fulfil their home du-
ties, as wives, mothers and mistresses of the
household, so that hired help must be engaged,
the wealthy man would be forced to supply the
place of his wife by a housekeeper and a gov-

[Column 3]

erness, the poor man to engage the insufficient
help of a charwoman to be cook, nurse, scrub-
ber, mender of clothes, etc., all in one. In
each case, wages must be paid, and the aggre-
gate sum of these wages would probably ex-
ceed not only all the earnings now gained by
married women away from their homes, but
even the earnings of the unmarried. The la-
bor of the household can only be performed
free of cost when it is performed by the wife.
Every one remembers Wilkie Collins' resume
of the question in the "Moonstone." The stew-
ard, whose cottage has been kept clean by a
working woman, marries her, and says:
	"I had another reason likewise of my own
discovering. Selina, being a single woman,
made me pay so much a week for her board
and services. Selina, being my wife, couldn't
charge for her board, and was bound to give
me her services for nothing. That was the
point of view I looked at it from. Economy—
with a dash of love. I put it to my mistress as
in duty bound, just as I had put it to myself.
'I have been turning Selina Goby over in my
mind!' I said, 'and I think, my lady, it will be
cheaper to marry her than to keep her!'"
	No one will deny that while Selina was
earning wages as housekeeper, she was a pro-
ductive member of the community; it is only
when she assumes the additional duties and re-
sponsibilities of a wife, that she becomes sup-
ported, and ceases to have a claim to remuner-
ation. Is there no method by which this in-
justice may be removed? Selina's case is of
frequent occurrence. The lady who has been
governess or school teacher, or post office clerk,
the working woman who has been a shop-hand
or domestic servant, the numerous class of
mill girls and female operatives, give up, when
they marry, a certain means of livelihood,
which, even if it has done no more than pro-
vide them with bare necessaries, was lawfully
their own, and they should have a legal claim
to some equivalent.
	As we have endeavored to point out, the
value of the work they do would be recognized
at once had it to be paid for. Some well-in-
tentioned but over-zealous reformers have sug-
gested that wives and mothers should receive
regular wages from the husbands for the work
they do. This, to our thinking, is manifestly
absurd and impossible. The work of caring
for her family, whether recognized as work or
not, is the duty which she has undertaken to
do when she married. She is morally bound
to perform it, as much as the husband is mor-
ally bound to provide her with the means of
doing it. The sacred duties of wife and mother
are such as can be measured by no debtor or
creditor account. She and her husband have
entered into a partnership, in which each con-
tributes his or her best for the good of the
firm; there can be no question of hire.
	We think, however, the law might recog-
nize the equality of the partnership more than
it does. The right of a widow to inherit after
her husband ought to be more carefully guard-
ed. If he die intestate, and there are uo chil-
dren, she should have the same right to be his
sole heir as he has to be hers. Her claim to
remain as a widow in her married home ought
to be established by law, not resting as it now
does upon family agreements, or the forbear-
ance of the eldest son. It should be impossi-
ble for a man to will the whole of his property
away from his wife. In some cases, as in the
transfer of real property, her signature should
be requisite to the document as well as his, as
is already the law in some countries; and
among the large wage-earning class, the em-
ployer should be bound to pay over to the
woman a proportion of the husband's earnings,
if it can be proved that he does not bring
home sufficient for the family support.
	Above all, the false theory that a married
woman is a hanger on, a supported member of


the commonwealth, as little children are, would
be abandoned, and the money she spends on
herself would be considered as lawfully
"earned" by herself as if it had been paid in-
to her hands by an employer who was not of
her own household.
	A few words from a thoughtful article on
"Treasurers," by Colonel Higginson, in the
Womans Journal are to the point here:
	"We are constantly told that the life-work
of a wife is as arduous and absorbing as that
of her husband. We are told that if she does
her whole duty to her family, she can have no
time to study metaphysics, or to put a slip of
paper into a ballot-box. I think it was the
conservative, Dr. Edward H. Clark, who de-
clared that the duties of the mother of a fam-
ily required as much toil of brain and body
as those of the captain of a ship. Grant it
all; grant that she work as hard as her hus-
band does. If so, the inference is irresistible
that she earns her share of the family income.
The fact that he receives the money and pays
the bills makes him the treasurer of the fami-
ly, that is all, aud he has no more right than
any other treasurer to take airs upon himself
and talk nonsense. When he pays ont money
to her, it is not as a gift, but as earnings.	*
*	*	'This was a present to me from my
wife,' said a rich man, showing an ornament.
'Bought with your money?' said a friend jo-
cosely. 'No,' he said, 'out of her own hard
earnings. She keeps house for this man of
your acquaintance.'"—Englishwoman's Review.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


﻿MEN AND WOMEN.
	“In every time and every nation the hearth
of home is in the care of the women. And if
ever a nation shall deserve to present to the
world a new and higher phase of home life, it
must be that people in which woman is treated
with the highest regard and true chivalry—
where she is permitted to become all that na-
ture intended her to be. We believe in Eu-
rope that this people is to be found in the
United States of America.”—So says Miss
Bremer.
	As far as exemption from the hard work of
“subduing the earth,” (which God has ex-
pressly laid on men) the women of America
are freed from all oppressive toils; and their
homes are made more comfortable and pleasant
than those of any other women. There is not
now, nor has there ever been, a nation where
the men were so careful to provide for their
families, and devoted such thought and skill
for domestic appliances intended to lighten the
tasks of women; and the love and liberality
of fathers and husbands are apparent in the
comforts and luxuries of home life, and in the
personal appearance of their wives and daugh-
ters. All this is well done; but is not some-
thing more needed before that shining phase
of home-life within our Republic should as-
sume, can be fully displayed?
	Greatness is most perfect when it acts with
the least reference to self; power is most effi-
cient when moving the will through the heart.
Let us American ladies cultivate the virtues,
the knowledge, the accomplishments, which will
influence, imbue and aid men to do the work
of the world to the glory of God; then the
woman will truly shine forth .as “the glory of
the man.”
	I would allude to the precepts of Christ as
the foundation rules of conduct and character,
when we seek to refine and dignify human na-
ture. And now, when the year has come full
circle, and we are at its close, this Gospel eti-
quette of love and duty comes before us as the
perfect pattern of that home life and social
improvement which the men and women of
America are, as we all hope, destined “to pre-
sent to the world.”


The real worth and glory of American in-
stitutions can never be understood nor appre-
ciated until we, as a people, teach, by our ex-
ample that Jesus Christ, in making men "free,"
subjected them to His truth.
							MRS. HALE.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	Thinking is the talking of the soul with it-
self.—Plato.

	Character is higher than intellect. A great
soul will be strong to live as well as strong to
think.—Emerson.

	Miss Jennie-Turner has been appointed no-
tary public, in New York, by Governor Cor-
nell. This is the first instance of the appoint-
ment of a woman in that State.

	Miss Lydia Becker was re-elected for the
fifth time to the Manchester (Eng.) School
Board. She was second on a poll counting
27,368 votes.

	Florence Nightingale, who may be called
the originator of trained nursing, says, "There
is no such thing as amateur art, there is no
such thing as amateur nursing."

	Lady Brassey, whose yachting experiences
have been told so charmingly, is to have a
yacht built at Cowes, which will be modelled
after a viking's ship now in the Christiana
Museum.

	Miss Mathilde Blind's "George Eliot" will
give for the first time a faithful account of
George Eliot's early life, and many details of
her unknown literary labor, with much new
and interesting correspondence,

	The summer house of Elizabeth Stuart
Phelps is on a point of the sea-shore a little
east of Gloucester. She lives there with her
companion and her pet dog during the warm
weather, as remote as possible from noise.

	Things which never could have made a man
happy develop a power to make him strong.
Strength and not happiness, or rather only that
happiness which comes by strength, is the end
of human living. And with that test and
standard the best order and beauty reappear.
—Phillips Brooks.

	Miss Rachel G. Foster, the efficient Secre-
tary of the N. W. S. A., has returned to her
home in Philadelphia. Miss Foster has won
hosts of friends during her sojourn in the
West, and is conceded to be a "graceful, lovely
young lady," notwithstanding the great execu-
tive ability displayed in her public work.
Would there were more such young women as
Miss Foster in the world.

	In a little red cottage on the shore of a
lake called the Bowl, near Lenox, Mass.,
Hawthorne wrote "The House of Seven Ga-
bles." Mr. J. T. Fields used to tell of carry-
ing out to him there one hundred dollars in ad-
vance of work, but after accepting, Haw-
thorne's sensitiveness found the obligation
irksome, and he handed it back. "Take it,
Fields," said he, "the house isn't big enough
to hold it."

	The New York Court of Appeals reversed
a decision of the Supreme Court which held
that a woman may have action against her hus-
band for beating her. It had before been the
recognized rule that a married woman might
sue any man for assault and battery except
her husband, but that to give her the right to
appeal to the courts against his brutality would
be "contrary to the policy of the law, and des-
tructive of that conjugal union and tranquility
which it had always been the object of the

[Column 2]
law to guard and protect." The Supreme
court of New York in general term refused to
hold to this inhuman and obsolete principle of
the old common law, but now the New York
Court of Appeals has overruled this humane
decision. We hope Vermont will adopt Sena-
tor Ide's bill, and release women from the old
feudal law of slavery to the husband.—Ex.


KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper's.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc. Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.

Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
☞ Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

A LARGE STOCK
Of HOME MADE TRANKS for sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS.

DAVID JAMES
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER LN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

