Vol. V., No. 5, Twentieth Ward Institute.


DIVINITY OF THE BIBLE.

	A short time ago I was asked by a lady if
I really believed the Bible to be a divinely in-
spired book, and not merely the writings and
wisdom of men alone. I was somewhat sur-
prised at the question coming from the source
it did, for though I had heard men ridicule and
mock the idea of its being of sacred origin it
was the first time I had ever heard it doubted
by a woman. To me it bears on its pages the
seal of its divinity, is its own strong witness,
and viewed in connection with the signs of the
times as they are transpiring daily before our
eyes, it seems to me there is no possible room
for doubt, that the blindest of the blind might
see if they would, but there are none so blind and
hopeless as those who will not look, who reso-
lutely close their eyes for fear they might per-
chance see and have to believe.
	In thinking on this subject events recorded
in the Bible, scenes therein portrayed pass be-
fore me as a grand panorama, and for me to
doubt would be unpardonable sacrilege. The
account of the creation, the council of Gods,
their decision and the accomplishment of their
designs and labors goes far beyond anything
man, by his wisdom alone, has ever produced.
Although somewhat changed and marred by
the handling of uninspired men, there is enough
of the beauty and perfection of the design, of
the plan of salvation, and a wisdom so far
superior to anything we can fiud in man, that
we must look beyond him for its origin, and
the light of the spirit of its great Author will
enable us to read and understand aright, to
partially see its magnificence, but all its glory
is beyond the conception of mortal sight.
	The leading down into Egypt of Joseph and
his father's house, the building up from them
of a great nation, their bondage, deliverance,
and travels in the wilderness is marvelous
work and a wonder, beyond the powers of man
to even imitate. The book of Psalms, Proverbs,
etc., bear too plainly on their pages the stamp
of inspiration to be doubted by any honest
heart, and when we turn to the Revelations
therein contained, to the prophecies of the
Prophets, and see how they have been and are
being fulfilled the blindness of the world is a
marvel, and seemingly their ignorance unpar-
donable, because willful and unnecessary; but
"they love darkness rather than light, be-
cause their deeds are evil." And when we
turn to the record of Jesus, his teachings and
works on earth, his crucifixion and resurre


tion, words fail. Well might Josephus doubt
"if it were lawful to call him a man." Take
that one great sermon on the Mount, plain,
simple, yet containing more in a few sentences
than volumes of the writings of the most
learned of men, principles that if lived up to
would enable us to become saints of God in
deed; but I fear that a life time of earnest
study and endeavor will not be enough to en-
able us to reach the standard of perfection
pointed out by Jesus to his followers that day
on the Mount.					HOPE.


130	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
AND PATRIARCH.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	There seemed an overruling providence in
the Apostles being away at the time of the
martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum, for the
time had come for them to seal their testimony
with their blood. If the Twelve had been
there they would never have permitted them
to recross the river into Illinois, much less to
be given up, as they were, quietly and without
a struggle into the hands of a bloodthirsty
mob. The news of their death fell like a
thunderbolt upon the Saints and sped like wild-
fire throughout the land, and a terrible fear
took possession of the people. Believing that
the "Mormons" would seek revenge, many of
them fled from the county.
	President Brigham Young and Orson Pratt
were at Salem, N. H., when the rumor first
met them. They went to Peterboro, where
they heard it confirmed by a letter from
Nauvoo, written by a Mr. Powers, giving par-
ticulars of their assassination. They started im-
mediately for Boston to meet my father and
Wilford Woodruff, who had also heard the
dreadful news. A council was then held
relative to their return to Nauvoo. They felt
that the Saints were as sheep without a shep-
herd. Brigham and father waited there one
week for Apostle Lyman Wight. As soon as
he arrived they started for home. Brothers
Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt and Wilford Wood-
ruff joining them at Albany. They arrived at
Nauvoo on the 6th day of August, 1844.
	As is well known, Sidney Rigdon, who had
shirked his duties and moved with his family
to Pittsburg some time previous to Joseph’s
death, took advantage of the absence of the
majority of the Twelve, to hasten to Nauvoo
to lay claim to the guardianship of the
Church, claiming to have had a vision from
the Lord concerning them, which he related
at his first appearance before a congregation
of the Saints, saying that he was the identical
man whom the Prophets had sung about,
wrote about, and rejoiced over in every pre-
ceding generation, etc.
	Elder Parley P. Pratt remarked, "I am the
identical man the Prophets never sung nor
wrote a word about." I was one of the listen-
ers, and I think that very few of the Saints
felt that Sidney Rigdon, who had deserted his
post when Joseph stood most in need of him,
was "the man whom the Lord had called" for
a shepherd to lead His sheep, in this the sad-
dest and darkest hour of their experience.
	A day was appointed by Marks, the pres-
ident of the stake, for a special conference to
choose a guardian. Bros. Willard Richards,
Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor and George
A. Smith were opposed to this hasty step, and
the former counseled the Saints not to be in
a hurry, but to wait till the Twelve Apostles
returned, and "ask wisdom of God." Elder
Rigdon evaded these men, as if unwilling to
come in contact with them, until he was forced
to meet them in council. He was a very ex-
citable man, and upon this occasion he paced
the room as he gave utterance to the

[Column 2]
following: "Gentlemen, you are used up;
gentlemen, you are divided, the anti-Mor-
mons have got you; the brethren are voting
every way, some for James, some for Deming,
some for Coulson, and some for Bedill. The
anti-Mormons have got you; you can’t stay in
the country; every thing is in confusion; you
can do nothing. You lack a great leader; you
want a head; and unless you unite upon that
head, you’re blown to the four winds." The
anti-Mormons will carry the election;, a guar-
dian must be appointed."
	There was no division among the brethren,
as Bro. George A. Smith there assured them,
and that Elder Rigdon was entirely mistaken,
saying, "the election would be unanimous, and
the friends of law and order will be elected
by a thousand majority. There is no occasion
to be alarmed. Brother Rigdon is inspiring
fears there are no grounds for."
	The second day after the Apostle’s return
to Nauvoo, President Brigham Young called a
special conference, to give Elder Rigdon the
opportunity to lay his claims before the Church.
Meetings were then held in a grove some
little distance east of the Temple, where a
great multitude gathered together; for this day
—was to decide who was to "lead Israel,"
Sidney Rigdon, or the Twelve Apostles. That
was a day never to be forgotten. I was
among the number that was obliged to stand,
it being impossible for half of the congrega-
tion to be seated. Mr. Hatch, a young lawyer,
whom I had formed acquaintance with at our
theatre the Spring previous, stood by me.
We had been on pleasant terms, but lately he
had turned Rigdonite, and frequently, during
that long harangue, he spoke in defence and
praise of the speaker, and tried to convince
me that he was the right man to lead the
Church. He very quickly learned my feel-
ings, and how offensive he had made himself.
My father was seated there with Brigham
and the rest of the Apostles, and I became
very indignant, and quite a war of words en-
sued, neither of us (of course) yielding the
point. N long after this he married one of
Rigdon’s daughters, which proved to be the only
loadstone that attracted him in that direction.
	At 2 p. m. the congregation again con-
vened to hear President Brigham Young.
He asked them the following questions in be-
half of the Twelve and the people:	*	*	*
"Inasmuch as our Prophet and Patriarch are
taken from our midst, do you want some one
to guard, to guide, and lead you through this
world into the kingdom of God, or not? All
who want some person to be a guardian, or a
prophet, a spokesman, or something, else, sig-
nify it by raising the right hand." (No votes.)
He said, "If any man thinks he has influence
among this people, to lead away a party, let
him try it, and he will find out that there is
power with the Apostles, which will carry them
off victorious through all the world, and
build up and defend the Church and kingdom
of God.	*	*	*	*	Brother Rigdon has
come 1,600 miles to tell you what he wants
to do for you. If the people want Brother
Rigdon to lead them, they may have him, but
I say unto you, the Twelve have the keys of
the kingdom of God in all the world."
	"The Twelve are pointed out by the finger
of God. Here is Brigham, have his knees
ever faltered? Have his lips ever quivered?
Here is Heber and the rest of the Twelve; an
independent body, who have the keys of the
Priesthood, the keys of the kingdom of God
to deliver to all the world. This is true, so
help me God! They stand next to Joseph,
and are as the first presidency of the Church.
I do not know whether my enemies will take
my life or not, and I do not care, for I want
to be with the man I love."	*	*	*	*
	"Brother Joseph, the prophet, has laid the
foundation of a great work and we will build

[Column 3]
upon it.	*	*	There is an Almighty foundation
laid, and we can build a kingdom such as there
never was in the world; we can build a kingdom
faster than Satan can kill the Saints off."
	I merely copy these few paragraphs to show
whether the keys of the kingdom were held
by the Twelve Apostles or by Sidney Rigdon.
The latter, sorely feeling his discomfiture, re-
turned immediately to Pittsburg; and the
work that he accomplished is a matter of
history, but unworthy of further notice here.
	It was thought by anti-Mormons that with
Joseph Smith’s death "Mormonism" would
cease to have a being. Those apostates said,
"Their damnation is sealed; their die is cast;
their doom is fixed." But Brigham said:
"There is an Almighty foundation laid, and
*	*	we can build a kingdom faster than
Satan can kill the Saints off." We are able to
testify that his words have not failed—no one
can deny their fulfilment. Our enemies were
blinded and did not see that "the blood of the
Prophet was the seed of the Church;" nor that
their predictions were so soon to be answered
upon their own heads instead of upon those
of the Saints, who that day recognized in
Brigham Young the voice of the true shepherd.
	For proofs that retribution has been meted
out to many who had a hand in our persecu-
tions, and the shedding of innocent blood
which cried to heaven for vengance, we refer
to a chapter of testimonies which, long since,
were given by the guilty, and have been lately
published in a little book entitled, "The Mar-
tyrs, by Lyman O. Littlefield; showing also
how "the sins of the fathers are visited upon
the children. These things are terrible to re-
flect upon, and how awful to think that it
should be so, adding to their own sufferings,
which they were doomed to endure here, be-
sides the terrible punishment hereafter.
	I can bear witness, with hundreds of others
who stood that day under the sound of Brig-
ham’s voice, of the wonderful and startling
effect that it had upon us. If Joseph had
risen from the dead and stood before them,
it could hardly have made a deeper or more
lasting impression. It was the very voice of
Joseph himself. This was repeatedly spoken
of by the Latter-day Saints. And surely
it was a most powerful and convincing tes-
timony to them that he was the man, instead
of Sidney Rigdon, that was destined to be-
come the "great leader," and upon whose
shoulders the mantle of Joseph had fallen.
	I will here mention a little circumstance to
show that there was still a warm place in the
heart of Prest. Brigham Young towards Elder
Rigdon. It is now more than twenty years
since his two eldest sons, Sidney and Wickliffe,
came out West in search of gold, the latter hop-
ing also to find health, which he lost while
studying law, and had been for some time a
sufferer from dyspepsia. Being old school-
mates, my husband invited them to share our
hospitality while they staid. They accom-
panied him to the office to see President B.
Young, who gave them a kindly welcome, and
the first opportunity that presented itself of
speaking alone to my husband, he said:
"Horace, you give those boys a home with you,
and you shall lose nothing by it." Horace in-
formed him that he had already done so.
Everything that laid in our power was done to
make them feel comfortable and at home.
Wickliffe remained here through the summer,
and Sidney stopped with us whenever he came
in from the mines. Wickliffe was more re-
ligiously inclined than the other, and he ex-
pressed himself to Mother Whitney and to
Sister E. R. Snow, that he would give all that
he had if he could know of the truth of "Mor-
monism." He wrote after returning home and
and expressed his appreciation of the hospital-
ity that they met with, while wanderers in this
far off land.				(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 131


﻿IF IT BE TRUE.

If it be true, and who shall dare deny
The universal voice of prophecy?
If it be true, that just beyond the river,
Which we call death, the soul shall live forever
In a fair country bathed in morning light.
If we are soon to range that realm of bliss,
Should my proud soul be wedded into this?

If it be true that we are children all
Of one kind Father, at whose gracious call
We come to livo in peace with one another,
That every child of sorrow is my brother—
If it be true that virtue has no guise,
Nor gold the power to purchase paradise.
If the dear Father loves the weak and poor,
Nor turns aside from any humble doer,
If he would seek his children’s happiness,
Why in my labor should I venture less?

If soon beneath the very turf I tread
This mortal form shall slumber with the dead,
And, resting on its cold and crumbling pillow,
Shall no more feel the toss of passion's billow;
If head and hand no more have power to move,
To thoughts of mercy or to deeds of love,
Should I this lingering moment consecrate
To thoughts unkind or deeds of scorn or hate?
If it be true—and this I surely know,
That I shall reap the very kind I sow,
That I must stand alone—not for another,
And answer for myself—not for my brother;
Then should I waste my life in fruitless care,
For what another’s conscience has to bear,
Save, if I may, to bear some humble part,
To lift the burden from an aching heart?
					—Buffalo Sunday Courier.


[Column 1]
A VENERABLE WOMAN.

PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

	The youth of Sister Presendia was passed
in comparative seclusion, in the quiet country
town where she was born. The advantages of
education enjoyed at that early period were
few, and in remote districts such as Watertown,
the people were only taught to read, write and
spell and a little arithmetic and geography.
This was considered quite sufficient, especially
for girls. Presendia Huntington had a mind
deep enough to have grappled with the most
abstruse studies, but such was not the order of
the day when she was young, therefore she was
compelled to submit to the existing conditions
of the times, while her whole soul thirsted af-
ter knowledge and intelligence. Girls were
taught housewifery in all its details and de-
partments. They were also taught to spin and
weave, to knit and sew. The amusements
were mostly dancing and riding on horseback.
Everything was very primitive and simple and
done in the most economical manner. In those
days the habits of life were such as promoted
health, activity and full physical development.
Sister Presendia merged from childhood into a
very large well-proportioned and handsome
young woman. In mind she was inclined to
be spiritual and reverential, though not pro-
nounced, as to a declaration of her religious
sentiments. She became acquainted with
Norman Buell, a young man of considerable
ability and enterprise, and after a formal
courtship subsequently married him at the age
of seventeen. The first years of the married
life of Mr. and Mrs. Buell were passed in
Mansville, New York. Mr. Buell was a manu-
facturer, and his business was so different to
anything his wife had been accustomed to in
her own home on a farm, that she was inclined
to be unhappy on account of it, though in a
worldly point of view they were well off.
There first child was born in Mansville, Dec.
12, 1828, and was called George. Shortly af-
ter, on account of Mrs. Buell's predilections in
favor of farm life, her husband sold his ma-

[Column 2]
chinery and business and returned to his
father's in Redmond, Jefferson Co., N. Y.
The estate of Mr. Buell's father being settled
soon after, he received his portion and bought
a hundred acres of land in an adjoining coun-
ty township of Pinbury, Lewis Co. There he
built a nice comfortable house and a commo-
dious barn, set out an orchard of valuable
fruit trees, and stocked his farm well with
cattle and sheep. There was also a maple
orchard on the farm, so they manufactured
their own molasses and sugar as well as some
to sell. They kept geese too, and as Mrs.
Buell was a farmer's daughter and accustomed
to all the details of farm life, she soon had her
house well supplied with downy feather beds.
They raised flax too, and Mrs. Buell worked
up for domestic use large quantities of both
wool and flax. Her husband made a loom in
which she did the weaving, so you can readily
understand her hands were never idle; and in
the language of the Scripture it might be said
of her, "she layeth her hands to the spindle
and her hands hold the distaff;" "she maketh
fine linen and selleth it," and so on. Here
upon the farm in the new bouse her second
son was born, Dec. 25, 1831. The young
couple cleared seventy acres of the new land
and made a splendid farm. They made up
their minds to acquire wealth by dint of hard
labor, industry and perseverance. They were
united in the endeavor to make their home
comfortable and pleasant, and the young wife
performed her part well, assisting her husband
as much as possible. Sister Presendia says, "I
primed all the sash for our house, made the
putty, set the glass and painted the whole
house inside and as far outside as I could
reach, Mr. Buell finishing where I could not
reach." In the fall of 1833, she repainted the
parlor floor; her little boy Silas run in while
the paint was still wet and left the prints of his
little feet; she had good cause to remember
this circumstance, and it imprinted itself firm-
ly upon her heart after, for on the 13th of
November a terrible accident occurred by
which the little one lost his life. The mother
had been boiling down cider in a very large
brass kettle, and this having been removed to
another room, the little boy went in and acci-
dentally fell so that he was burned and died
thirteen hours after the injury. Sister Presen-
dia says, "no one but a mother can realize the
sorrow of an accidental death." This was the
end of happiness at the farm. The mother's
health gradually failed; she was unable to ful-
fill the daily duties devolving upon her, and
it was considered advisable to get the counsel
of some physician. Mr. Buell was going from
home on business to Adams village, and it was
decided to take Mrs. B. with him to see a doc-
tor. Mrs. B. was so ill that they could not re-
turn home, and at the house of Dr. Baggs, at
Lorain, on the return route, she was obliged to
remain. Here she was so low that her father
and mother were sent for. Mrs. B. was con-
fined with a son, who died the same day it was
born, March 8, 1834; it was named Thomas
Dymick. Her parents, as was previously
stated, were strict Presbyterians, believing much
in the efficacy of prayer. She says, "when my
father left me he said, in a feeling and tender
manner, 'may the Son of Righteousness arise
with healing in his wings,' and I felt he never
expected to see me again." However, through
good nursing and medical treatment she was
restored to health, but she did not wish to re-
turn to the farm, there were too many sad re-
collections connected with it. Mr. Buell sold
his farm and rented a woolen factory in Lorain,
resuming his favorite employment.
	About this time, Sister Presendia says, the
ministers of the different denominations in that
vicinity tried to persuade them to unite with
the church, each one presenting his particular
views, desirous to have them receive and be-

[Column 3]
lieve as he did. But Mr. and Mrs. Buell be-
lieved they were all wrong, and stood aloof
from all. About the same time a rumor
reached them of a "golden Bible" being found
in the "Hill Cumorah" in their own native
State. They looked upon it as another re-
ligious speculation, for they had seen much
deception and wickedness among professors of
religion, and therefore took very little notice
of the report.
	In the summer of 1835, while residing in
Lorain, Sister Presendia says, "my mother
came to visit me and brought the 'Word of
Wisdom' in writing, it had not yet been print-
ed, and she gave me the first intelligence of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and the record taken
from the Hill Cumorah. I felt it was true,
and thought I would keep the Word of Wis-
dom and obtain the blessings promised."

[To be continued.]


WHICH IS MOST VALUABLE.

	I am sadly conscious that thousands of
mothers are so over burdened that the actual
demands of life, from day to day, consume all
their time and strength. But "of two evils
choose the least;" and which would you call
the least, an unpolished stove, or an untaught
boy? Dirty windows, or a child whose confi-
dence you have failed to gain? Cobwebs in
the corner, or a son over whose soul a crust
has formed so strong that you despair of melt-
ing it with your hot tears and your fervent
prayers?
	I have seen a woman who was absolutely
ignorant of her children’s habit of thought,
who never felt that she could spare a half
hour to read or talk with them—I have seen
this woman spend ten minutes in ironing a
a sheet—there were six in the washing—one
hour in fluting the ruffles and arranging the
puffs of her little girl’s "sweet white suit;"
thirty minutes in polishing tins which were
already bright and clean; forty minutes in
frosting and decorating a cake for tea, because
"company" was expected.
	When that mother—a good orthodox Chris-
tian—shall appear before the Great White
Throne, to be judged for "the deeds done in
the body," and to give in her report of the
Master’s treasures placed in her care—there
will be questions and answers like these:
	"Where are the boys and girls I gave thee?"
	"Lord, I was busy in keeping my house
clean and in order, and my children wandered
away!"
	"Where wert thou while thy sons and thy
daughters were learning lessons of dishonesty,
malice, and impurity?"
	"Lord, I was polishing furniture and ruffling
dresses, and making beautiful rugs!"
	"What hast thou to show for thy life-work?"
	"The tidiest house, Lord, and the best
starching and ironing in all our neighborhood!"
	Oh! these children! these children! The
restless, eager boys and girls whom we love
more than our own lives! Shall we devote
our time and strength to that which perisheth,
while the rich garden of our child’s soul lies
neglected, with foul weeds choking out all
worthy and beautiful growths? Shall we ex-
alt the incidentals of life to the rank of a
purpose, to the shutting out of that work
whose results reach beyond the stars?
	Fleeting oh! mother, are the days of child-
hood; and speckless windows, snowy linen,
the consciousness that everything about the
house is faultlessly bright and clean, will be
poor comfort in that day wherein we shall dis-
cover that our boy’s feet have chosen the path
that shall' take him out of the way to all
eternity.—Marriet M. Morris in Woman’s
Journal.


132	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	*	*	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.

	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	FEBRUARY 1, 1883.


[Column 1]
UTAH'S CLAIMS TO STATEHOOD.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON STATISTICS,
APPOINTED AT THE CONSTITU-
TIONAL CONVENTION.

	The Declaration of Independence, which
enunciates some of the fundamental principles
of popular government, specifies liberty as one
of the inalienable rights of man. This undoubt-
edly includes, if it does not directly refer to,
political liberty. Governments are instituted to
secure this as well as other rights, and the just
powers of governments are derived from the
consent of the governed. Under the system of
territorial governments—which does not appear
to have been contemplated in the Constitution
of the United States, an instrument framed in
accordance with the spirit of the Declaration of
Independence, political liberty in its true sense
is not secured and cannot be enjoyed. The peo-
ple are governed without their consent. They
have no voice in the selection of the executive
judicial or administrative officers sent to man-
age their affairs, nor in the election of the na-
tional officers who appoint them. Laws are
framed for their obedience, in the enactment of
which they take no part, proper congressional
representation being denied them, their one
Delegate having no vote in the National Legis-
lature. And their own local enactments are
subject to arbitrary annulment or repeal.
	According to the same instrument which de-
fines human rights and points out the way by
which they should be secured, it is the right of
the people when the government under which
they exist does not answer the purpose for
which it was designed, to institute a new gov-
ernment; and not only to alter but abolish it
when it becomes destructive of those ends. The
change from a Territory to a State government
is therefore a rightful alteration, if in the forma-
tion of the State the principles of equal freedom
and popular government are established and
maintained.
	Utah has additional reasons for a change of
government to those which have justified other
Territories in throwing off the yoke which
weighed them down and asserting and acquir-
ing political liberty. Besides the ordinary disad-
vantages already named, she is so much in bon-
dage as to be placed under a "one man power"
of the most irksome character. The Governor
appointed by authority over which the people
have no control or influence, has the power of
absolute veto, by which the legislative acts of
their own elected representatives can be ren-
dered void at will; and against such autocratic
dominion there is no remedy. This is despotism
pure and simple. The citizens of Utah are thus
not freemen but vassals. The colonial bondage
against which the fathers rebelled was liberty
compared to this imperailism. No people im-
bued with a republican spirit would endure it

[Column 2]
any longer than they are compelled to. It is
their inalienable right to cast it off as soon as
they gain the needful strength.
	But the citizens of Utah have never contem-
plated rebellion against the authority of the
United States, however arbitrarily the power of
that Government may have been exercised.
They revere the Constitution, they owe and ac-
knowledge allegiance to the Federal Union, and
have always been anxious to occupy that posi-
tion connected therewith to which a free peo-
ple are entitled. They have therefore repeated-
ly sought admission into the Union as a State.
Having failed heretofore, they are now making
another application. The propriety and right-
fulness of this course must certainly be con-
ceded by all resonable minds.
	The power to admit new States into the Fed-
eral Union rests with the Congress of United
States. The only general constitutional rule to
govern such admission is that a republican form
of government shall be provided for and secured
to the new State. But other things are usually
required, the right to demand which is not dis-
puted, such as a sufficient population to bear the
burden of a State government; an area of terri-
tory large enough for growth and expansion;
property of sufficient value to yield a reasonable
revenue; the material elements necessary to the
support of a growing commonwealth; intelli-
gence adequate to self-government; due regard
for republican principles, by which liberty shall
be extended within the limits of wholesome
law to all classes, parties and creeds without dis-
tinction. Utah possesses all the qualifications
which may be reasonably demanded and which
have ever been required of any other commun-
ity seeking the rights and privileges of a free
State.
	The population of this Territory, according to
the census of 1880, was 14,963, of whom 99,969
are native born. With the natural increase and
the influx by immigration, the present popula-
tion may be safely placed at 160,000. The census
of 1870 gave Utah a population of 86,786. The
increase from 1870 to 1880 was 65 per cent., or
5,315 per cent. per annum. At the same ratio
Utah by June 1882 will have a population of
167,301. This is considerably above the figure
ever required heretofore as a condition to State-
hood.
	The land area of the Territory is 84,970 square
miles, its water area 2,780 miles. It stretches
325 miles north and south and 300 miles
east and west, and over 10,000,000 acres of
the public domain therein have been surveyed.
Wherever a stream of water flows down from
the mountain heights, settlements have been
farmed, which grow in numbers and wealth as
larger areas are brought under cultivation
through the increase of the water supply, the
volume of which enlarges remarkably, and as
various industries in addition to agriculture are
established. There are at least 350,000 acres of
land under fence, and the grain crop is not less
than 3,000,000 bushels per annum. The foot-
hills and benches afford ample grazing grounds
for stock, herds of cattle and bands of horses
fatten upon them for home use and extensive
export, and sheep raising has assumed large
proportions, the present number being in the
neighborhood of three quarters of a million,
shearing annually about 2,700,000 pounds of
wool. Factories are established for the manu-
facture of yarn, cloth, blankets, shawls, etc.,
in various parts of the Territory, and over a mil-
lion and a half pounds of wool is exported. All
kinds of fruit grown in the States flourish in
Utah and are of superior quality, dried apricots,
peaches, apples, plums and small fruit being
among her most profitable exports.
	According to the census of 1880, Utah had

[Column 3]
1,966 manufacturing establishments, employing
3,221 persons, with invested capital to the
amount of $2,839,463, producing goods to the
value of $4,217,434. These have materially in-
creased during the past two years, and it is safe
to put the manufactures of Utah at $6,000,000
per annum. This is exclusive of smelting and
reduction works. The principle manufactures
are flour, meal, cheese, salt, molasses, leather,
boots and shoes, harness, saddles, woolen goods,
hosiery, lumber, sash, doors, mouldings, brick,
lime, charcoal, machinery, furniture, paper,
soap, glue, candles, earthenware, brooms,
brushes, hats, basketware, candy, crackers,
matches, etc. There are several foundries and
machine shops, many saw mills, planing mills,
etc.
	The principal mineral products of Utah are
gold, silver, lead, copper, iron, coal, sulphur,
antimony, mica, rock salt, arsenic, alum, cinna-
bar, colbalt, bismuth, gypsum, marble, granite,
sandstone, limestone, slate, ochres, mineral wax,
kaolin, clays of various kinds, etc. The bullion
product of the year 1882, as gleaned from the
annual report of Wells, Fargo & Co., is as fol-
lows: Gold, 9,039 ounces; silver, 5,435,444
ounces; copper, 605,880 pounds; refined lead,
8,213,798 pounds; unrefined lead, 52,349,850
pounds. The total value of these products,
computing the gold and silver at mint valuation
and the other metals at their seaboard value, is
$10,312,902.
	Since the opening of her mines Utah has pro-
duced over $60,000,000 in the "precious" metals.
New mines are constantly being discovered and
many of the old ones are both permanent and
profitable. The stability which statehood would
give to the institutuions of Utah would impart
confidence to investors, and capital would flow
in by which the still hidden treasures of the
hills could be unlocked and brought forth to
enrich the State and benefit the nation.
	Among the undeveloped resources of the
Territory are the iron deposits, which exist in
many localities and are declared by noted ex-
perts to be unexcelled in intrinsic value by any
in the world. The ores are magnetite and he-
matite, and yield from 50 to 65 per cent. of iron
and both in quality and quantity the deposits
are remarkable. In close proximity are valuable
and extensive deposits of coal, also of limestone,
which will render the manufacture of iron easy
and cheap, when larger capital imparts vitality
to labor and a solid political basis is laid to give
stability to important enterprises. Coal fields
of vast extent are being opened in other parts of
the Territory. There is salt enough to pickle
the world, sulphur enough to suffocate it, coal
enough to cremate it. There is lead, iron, mica,
antimony, and other minerals enough to supply
the country for centuries, and the capabilities of
this important section of the public domain are
only just conmencing to be understood.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]


ONE WOMAN'S OPINION.

	Another attempt is being made in the Con-
gress of the United States to disfranchise the
women of Utah. The Woman's Convention
recently held in Washington, passed resolutions
denouncing these attempts and have been be-
fore the House proclaiming against it as an evil
display of power. While these and thousands
of other noble women throughout the land, and
hundreds of liberal minded men are laboring in
the interest of securing the franchise to all
women, here are a few narrow-minded politi-
cians trying to deprive a handful of women,
away in the far west, of that privilege which
they had exercised already twelve years, and no
one has ever been able to say, the least evil re-


[Column 1]
﻿sult had followed. These liberal minded per-
sons who are so anxious to better the condition
of the women of Utah, and who made such
boasts of what they would do for them, during
the late campaign, when electioneering for Dale-
gate to Congress, are now urging the lawmakers
of the nation to annul the act of the Utah Leg-
islature confering upon women the right to vote.
It is plain as possible that it is a little game of
subtraction they are trying to play, and at the
expense of women; they have scarcely the
courage yet to say, take the ballot from men
because they believe in a certain religion, but
women are "weak creatures," and it will be an
easy matter to make Congress believe women
ought not to have the privilege of voting, and
that will take away from the People's Party a
few thousand votes weakening their ranks a
little, and equalizing the two parties somewhat.
	Plural marriage does not enter into the ques-
tion at all, for no woman on whom a suspicion
has fallen of entering into such relations, is
allowed to vote under the Edmunds law as in-
terpreted by the Commissioners. Consequently
that settles that matter decidedly. It is not
because they vote for men to hold office who
have more than one wife, for such men cannot
hold any office, well why is it? Simply because
they want to obtain a balance of power, by
working away at the rule of subtraction. They
would take away every right and privilege that
the men and women enjoy who settled this
desert land without the least conscientious
scruple Mormon women are entitled to some
privileges for the part they took in opening up
this new country. Many of them drove cattle
over the plains, yoking and unyoking the team
themselves, cooked for their children, made
their own fires, etc., while the husband and
father was in the United States service. This
people, driven from their homes in Nauvoo, and
compelled to go out into the wilderness, and
afterwards called upon to furnish five-hundred
able-bodied men to go to Mexico, a most un-
common request, yet cheerfully complied with;
undergoing numberless privations and hard-
ships, in which women bore their share uncom-
plainingly, have had comparative peace and
prosperity for a number of years here in the
mountain fastnesses.
	The toil and labor consequent upon such long
and tedious journeyings, and the many difficul-
ties and trials which are incidental to pioneer
life have been shared by the mothers and
daughters equally with the fathers and sons.
Realizing this fact and having the utmost con-
fidenee in the integrity and capacity of women
for the public good, the Legislature of Utah
gave woman the suffrage. Believing it
would be for the best interests of all, and that
woman's intelligence would thus be brought in-
to exercise for the benefit of all. Again and
again have the liberal party sought to wrest the
ballot from the women of this Territory, but
their repeated attempts have each time signally
failed. No doubt this last will be as futile as the
others. It is strange considering how anxious
the liberal party were, previous to the last elec-
tion, to obtain the votes of "Mormon" women
that they should so soon seek to deprive them
of the ballot. Had they cast their votes for the
"Liberal" candidate he might have proved him-
self more "Liberal." Alas for the frailty of the
liberal party, who promised so much for woman
in her "down-trodden condition," and now seek
to deprive her of that which gives her political
independence and prestige. What a pity it is
to be sure that all the democratic candidates
who have been beaten by republican votes can-
not appeal to Congress to disfranchise republi-
cans! It would be quite as just, as for the lib-
erals to cheat the women of Utah out of their

[Column 2]
political privileges; but possession is nine points
of the law, the old adage saith, and the women
of Utah have the suffrage and it will be a hard
matter to persuade Congress that any particular
benefit to the Territory can be derived by the
annuling of the act which granted woman the
right to vote, when even those Governors, who
have been most opposed to woman suffrage on
general principles could see no evil result arising
from its exercise in this Territory.
	However, if the liberal party push women to
the wall in the political struggle as they seem
determined to do, they will not achieve the ob-
ject of their ambition, and will most assuredly
get the ill will of all women everywhere who
are demanding political recognition. In these
mountain vales there are hosts of young men,
as well as old, who are by every right of birth
and intelligence entitled to citizenship, who will
uphold the Constitution of the United States
and stand by the flag even under difficulties, and
they will always out vote such men as are now
trying to get Congress to take from the women
of Utah that privilege which they hold most
sacred; and have exercised for twelve years con-
tinuously with the most satisfactory results to
all parties concerned, except a few dissatisfied
office seekers, who are striving to build them-
selves up at the expense of the territorial treas-
ury, and not by the will of the whole people,
but the desire to rule by right of might, taking
advantage of the prejudices of the people
against the "Mormons," and resorting to all
sorts of trickery to carry on the campaign. But
this move to disfranchise women is in keep-
ing with the entire proceedings of the "liberals,"
and is only one more outrage perpetrated in the
interest of a few who desire to arrogate to them-
selves the control of this little portion of terri-
tory, and to oppress the rightful owners of the
soil and the pioneers of the desert, who have
done the hard work of searching out settlements
have built the roads and bridges, made peace
with the red man and destroyed the wild
beasts and reptiles, until it was easy for others
to come here and acquire wealth and position.
The fortitude and endurance of the early set-
tlers of these valleys is deserving the recollec-
tion and gratitude of posterity. Those who par-
ticipated in the hardships and endured the pri-
vations incident to settling this country, know
well how to appreciate the blessings of prosper-
ity that have followed their untiring exertions;
and are certainly the best guardians of their
own freedom and the public welfare, and will not
surrender the fort for any political whim or in-
trigue, not while they have God and right on
their side.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 133


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SISTERS PRESENDIA L. KIMBALL and Zina
D. H. Young attended the Conference of the
Relief Societies of Davis Stake, held at Centre-
ville, Friday, January 19th. Mrs. Nancy A.
Clark, presiding.

	IN the notice of the death of Sister Artemisia
Snow published Dec. 1, issue of our paper, a ty-
pographical error occurs, which we feel it a duty
to correct. The mistake is in her age. Sister
Snow was born in 1819, and not in 1810, as be-
fore published.

	WE have received, by courtesy of friends in
Washington, several copies of the "Evening
Critic" and "Washington Post," containing full
accounts of the N. W. S. A. Convention recent-
ly held in that city, and the resolutions adopted
during its session, from which we expect to
make some selections for our next paper, as they
came too late for this issue.

	THE entertainment in the Twentieth Ward


Schoolhouse on Thursday evening, January 25,
was, we understand, a most enjoyable affair.
The Institute finished, on that day, the first de-
cade. Speeches were made, songs, recitations
and brief lectures given; some sweet music was
rendered and a manuscript paper, "The Index,"
was read. After the exercises the guests par-
took of refreshments and the whole was followed
with dancing. The house was crowded, invita-
tions having been given to many outside the
Ward. We acknowledge with pleasure the in-
vitation extended to us, but were not able to at-
tend on account of a previous engagement.

	ON Friday, January 19th, the first annual
meeting of the Seventh Ward Primary Associa-
tion, of this city, was held in the Ward Meeting
House, Mrs. Minnie H. James, presiding. Bishop
Thorne and Counselor McLachlan were pres-
ent, Mrs. M. A. Needham, President of the
Relief Society, and other members of the Ward.
The annual report and treasurer's report were
read by the secretary, which showed the Asso-
ciation to be in a prosperous condition. The in-
crease in numbers during the year had been 41;
decrease, 14. The exercises were excellently
well rendered, and the selections were in good
taste. The first was a song by Miss Minnie
Funk; next, "Nearer my God to Thee," by six
little girls; recitiation, Master Samuel Andrews;
dialogue by seven little girls, about a bonnet;
recitation by Master Leo Foster; dialogue by
three little boys and one girl, on smoking; song,
Miss Mary Alice Woodbury; recitation, Miss
Lizzie James; organ solo by Miss Alice Lambert
finished the programme. During the year past,
one of the Counselors, Mrs. Jane James, had
been removed by death, and the Primary has
increased in numbers so that it was thought ad-
visable to appoint two more Counselors to assist
the President in her labor of love. Two Sisters
had been selected and Sister Eliza R. S. Smith
officiated in the nominating and Mrs. Maggie W.
Young and Mrs. Louie Woodbury were unani-
mously sustained as Counselors to aid Sisters
James and Broadbent in the work in which they
have been so efficiently laboring the past year.
Brief addresses were made by Sisters Eliza R. S.
Smith, Louie Felt, Ellen C. Clawson, and E. B.
Wells. Bishop Thorne made a few remarks ex-
pressing his pleasure, and Counselor McLach-
lan pronounced the benediction. This Primary
is one of the best conducted we have ever
visited.


A HAPPY EVENT.

	A very pleasant party was given in the Lion
House parlor on Thursday evening, January
25th, in honor of Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith and
Zina D. H. Young. Sister Eliza, as she is af-
fectionately entitled, was seventy-nine on Sun-
day, January 21, and Sister Zina, whose name is
also a household word, was sixty-two on Wednes-
day, January 31st. The committee arranged to
make the party a conjoint affair as the ladies
have been so closely associated in their labors
among the people, and also in family relation-
ships. There were about eighty persons as-
sembled and all seemed to enjoy themselves in
conversation with each other and congratula-
tions of the honored ladies were in order. One
of the committee read some letters from friends
who were unavoidably absent, and a poem which
had been written for the occasion by Augusta
Joyce Crocheron.
	Mrs. Zina Y. Williams, in a most graceful
manner, in behalf of the ladies, presented Sister
Eliza with a handsome silk cloak, accompanied
by a pretty little speech in which she included
the remarks made when the woman of Sa-
maria poured the precious ointment upon the


head of the Savior, and the people remonstrated
saying, this ointment might have been sold and
the money given to the poor, but Jesus reproved
them, and said, "the poor ye have always with
you, but me ye have not always"—Zina said,
"the poor we have always, but Sister Eliza we
may not have always." Dr. Romania B. Pratt
next presented, with a few brief and well chosen
words, a writing desk and gold pen to Sister
Zina, in behalf of the ladies. Refreshments
were then served to all and conversation again
became general. About eight o'clock the com-
mittee called upon Elder F. D. Richards to
speak; he was followed by President Taylor who
in the course of his remarks, related a conversa-
tion he had just had with a member of the
British Parliament in regard to Utah. The
other speakers were Counselor D. H. Wells,
Bishop L. W. Hardy, Sisters Eliza R. and Zina
D., Sister Jane S. Richards, of Ogden, Sisters
Presendia L. Kimball and M. Isabella Horne.
Elder George Goddard sang, "Who's on the
Lord's side," and Elder C. W. Penrose dismissed
with prayer. The sentiments of those who
spoke were in accordance with the spirit of love
and good feeling engendered by the pure prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and the congratulations
were sincere and fervent. Long may these
mothers in Israel live to do good and minister to
the daughters of Zion.


134	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with deep regret and feelings of sorrow that we
record the death of one of our most esteemed sisters,
Mary Katerina Barker, who departed this life on Janu-
ary 6th, 1883, at her home in Mound's Fort, near Ogden,
after a long and painful sickness, caused by an inward
tumor.
	The deceased was the daughter of John D. and Pauline
Malan, and was born in the valley of Luzerna, Province
of Pinerolo, Piedmont, Italy, July 10th, 1829. She was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, in her native town, in 1853, by George D. Kea-
ton. In 1855, she left her native land, crossed the Alps,
and from Liverpool set sail for America on the "Juven-
ta," with seven hundred Saints on board; landed in Phil-
adelphia, May 5th, travelled by way of Pittsburg and
Atchison, arrived at Mormon Grove on the 25th of May,
and on October 28th of the same year arrived at Salt
Lake City, whence she immediately removed to Ogden,
where she has since resided. She was the wife of James
Barker, who died last June.
	Shortly before reaching Mormon Grove, cholera broke
out among the traveling Saints. Hundreds fell by the
way. Young and old alike yielded to its remorseless
grasp. Sister Barker, with heroic fortitude, like an an-
gel of mercy, ministered to the sick and the dying,
and cared for the dead, while she comforted those that
mourned. In fulfilment of a promise pronounced upon
their heads, at Liverpool, by Apostle F. D. Richards, not
one of the family of which the deceased was a member
was attacked with the disease.
	Sister Barker was treasurer of the Mound Fort Relief
Society from 1874 to the time of her demise. Her house
was ever open for meetings and other duties of the So-
ciety. She was an earnest and indefatigable laborer in
the cause of woman; and has, since its first issue, sub-
scribed for the EXPONENT, the reading of which gave
her much pleasure and comfort during her sickness.
	Diligent and faithful in all her duties, kind and ben-
evolent to the poor, charitable to the erring, meek and
humble in spirit, exemplary in all the relations of life,
with an unfaltering faith in God and her religion, she
was beloved by all who knew her, and died in hope of a
glorious resurrection, to inherit eternal life in the man-
sions of the just.
	She leaves a family of two boys and four girls, and a
large circle of relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
					ANNIE TAYLOR, Prest. R. S.
					ANNIE D. TAYLOR, Secretary.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.

BEAR LAKE.

	The Ninth Semi-Annual Conference of the

[Column 2]
Relief Societies of Bear Lake Stake was held
on Saturday and Sunday, January 13th and
14th, 1883, commencing Saturday, 10 a. m.
Sister Julia Lindsay, presiding.
	Singing. Prayer by President William
Budge. Singing.
	Minutes of last conference read by the sec-
retary, and approved. The different societies
were represented as follows: Paris, 1st Ward,.
by Counselor H. Rich; Paris, 2nd Ward, by
Prest. M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Prest. Carleson;
Montpelier, Prest. P. Hogenson; Bennington,
Prest. VanOrman; Bloomington, Prest. Green-
halgh; St. Charles, Prest. Jacobs; Fish Haven,
Prest. F. Howell; Liberty, George Town, Soda
Springs, Garden City, Meadowville, Lake Town
Randolph, Woodruff, and Saleratus Creek,
were not represented. A number of subjects
were treated upon by the different presidents,
and among the most important ones were those
of storing grain, building temples, and assisting
the Deseret Hospital. The reports were very
encouraging and showed that much good was
being done by the sisters.
	President Lindsay felt pleased with the re-
marks of the sisters. Alluded to the remarks
of President Carleson, who said she never called
upon the association for anything but that
she received it, and thought if we all could say
that we would soon become perfect.
	We should economize our time and spend it
in a way that will help others as well as our-
selves. Exhorted the sisters to attend their
meetings regularly that they might get the
spirit of the times, for they could not get it
without. We should not stay away because we
are afraid we will have to speak, we must
make a beginning, commence at the foot of
the ladder as it were, and ascend.
	As the Logan Temple was nearly completed,
would like to send what means could be brought
together to be donated to the Deseret Hospital.
	Showed the necessity of storing grain and of
building granaries so that it could be taken
care of. We are called upon by our Heavenly
Father to renew our energies, let us all try to
do so to the best of our abilities.
	Counselor Maria Rich felt to rejoice in the
things the Lord had blessed us with. Had been
quite ill for the past year, but had prayed
earnestly for health and her desires had been
granted. Spoke of some of her experience in
the early settlement of this country and of the
many trials she had passed through, but knew
that the Lord would help those who tried to do
good. We should speak cheering words to our
sisters, comfort the distressed and do the will of
our Heavenly Father and keep his command-
ments.
	Counselor E. Collings felt thankful that
we could meet together in peace and worship
the Lord according to the dictates of our con-
sciences. He had blessed us exceedingly since
we had been here. Compare our condition
with what it was a few years ago and then ask
ourselves if we ought not to comply with the re-
quirements of our Heavenly Father? I think we
should, but some of us are neglectful of our du-
ties. If we have done anything wrong we
must repent now and serve God more faithfully
in the future.
	The afternoon was occupied by the Y. L. M.
I. A.
	Sunday, 10 a. m. Sister J. P. Lindsay pre-
siding. Singing. Prayer by Bishop Price.
Singing.
	President M. Innis then represented Paris,
1st Ward, she not being present on Saturday
morning.
	Counselor E. Collings encouraged the sisters
to attend the meetings. We must watch our-
selves and reform in all our evil ways. There
is plenty of room for improvement, and there is
no time for us to look at the imperfections
of others. It is not pleasing in he sight of
our Heavenly Father that we spend so much

[Column 3]
time in dress when we can use it to so much
better advantage.
	The statistical and financial report and the
reports from the diffrent societies were then
read by the secretary.
	Prest. Lindsay was pleased to see so many at
meeting, and glad to see that the brethren had
confidence in their labors, and knew that they
had by their attendance at the meetings, and
by their encouraging remarks. It was right to
have written as well as verbal reports at our con-
ferences, and hoped the people would exercise a
little patience.
	We believe in revelation and should feel
thankful that the Lord has condescended to
speak to us at this time and in such a kindly
manner.
	Had felt somewhat uneasy on account of the
pride that was creeping in among the Latter-day
Saints, and said we must be wise in the way we
use our time and spend it to the glory of God.
We should not let our minds be taken up so
much with the things of this world. The
Lord looks at the heart, not at the clothes. We
must get rid of classification and distinction
and lay up treasures for the next world.
Don't send your means to the States for
cheap literature and give it to our children to
read. We must have the Spirit of the Lord
in our hearts at all times, and be very watch-
ful, as it takes but very little to grieve that
Spirit. Alluded to the revelation that had
lately been given to President Taylor and ex-
horted the sisters to assist their husbands to set
their families in order, as they could do much
in that direction. We should be determined
by the help of our Heavenly Father to do bet-
ter this year than we have ever done before.
	Keep your small children in the house in
the evening where you can look after them and
see that your daughters keep good company.
	Advised the young ladies to attend their
meetings, gain all the instructions they could
that they might be able to train their children
in an acceptable way before God.
	President Budge made a few remarks about
sustaining the officers of the Relief Societies,
and said it wss the privilege of any who did
not feel willing to sustain them with their faith
and prayers to make their objections.
	The Stake Presidency, secretaries and treas-
urers and presidents and counselors of the var-
ious associations were then sustained by the
vote of the people.
	President Budge trusted that the faith and
prayers of the Saints would be exercised in his
behalf, that what he might say might be bene-
ficial to all. Had been pleased and edified by
the remarks of the sisters, they were calcu-
lated to make us think, and to be profitable to
us after we leave this assembly. Alluded to
the remarks of Sister Lindsay about partak-
ing of the influences of the Gentiles. The
Lord said "Come out of her (Babylon), O my
people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and
that ye receive not of her plagues." What
benefit would our gathering be if we brought
with us the spirit and habits of the Gentiles?
Evils exist among us and it is necessary that
they should be corrected. We should give
our thoughts to better things, the instructions
we receive will strengthen us in our endeavors.
We say we thank God for these instructions
and for Apostles and Prophets, and should we
not be prepared to receive their words. Let
us endeavor to turn aside from all that is
not right, and serve God more closely in the
future. I believe that this feeling exists
among the people. Some of us indulge in the
use of tobacco, strong drink, tea and coffee,
and we ought to leave off these habits, as God
says they are not good. Besides the immediate
evils that directly effect us, as the results of
such practices, we become slaves to our appe-
tites. This is not right, Latter-day Saints
should be free in every respect to serve God.


We must be free, and a man who drinks is not
free but is enslaved by that power. Spoke of
the influence cheap literature had upon the
mind. We want to live by the light, power
and knowledge of God. His work will grow
and increase until it fills the whole world.
There is no prospect for the wicked, or hope
of them ever being able to overcome this work.
Singing. Benediction by Prest. James H.
Hart.
 The afternoon was occupied by the Primary
Associations.
 Statistical and Financial Report of the
Relief Societies of the Bear Lake Stake of
Zion, for the six months ending December 31,
1882.
 Statistical:	Teachers,	133;	members, 481;
total offlcers and members, 637; meetings held,
94; average attendance, 236; Church papers,
198; WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 35.
Financial: On hand at date of last report,
cash, $88.75;  property, $646.81; wheat, 342
bushels, 55 pounds. Receipts: Cash, $286.94;
property, $68.89; wheat, 24 bushels, 55 pounds.
Dispursements: To the needy, cash, $43.48;
property, $31,94; to the Temple, cash, $281.57;
property, $13.15. To home industries, cash,
$54.55; property, $6,82; to books, cash, $4.50;
missionary, cash, $13.00; building, cash, $21.65;
property, $4.00.
 On hand: Cash, $161,70; property, $1257,70;
wheat, 759 bushels, 3 pounds.
ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Secretary.
JULIA BUDGE, Assistant Secretary, R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACTS.

FROM MRS. SARAH JOSEPHA HALE’S RECORD
OF ILLUSTRIOUS WOMEN. PUBLISHED, 1853.
	Victoria, Queen of England, was crowned
oix the 28th of June, 1838. From that time
onward, there has been no diminution in her
zeal; every duty devolving on her, every form
prescribed, every custom held important in the
old and cumbrous British government she has
performed, observed, and cherished. She has
been the model of female royalty. But this
is a trifling matter, compared with the salutary
influence her high principles, refined taste, and
graceful propriety of manners have wielded over
those who give tone to fashionable society in
England. Vice and folly retire abashed from
her presence.
      Great Britain is governed by laws, but the
ruler is not amenable to the laws. Hence
the importance that the sovereign should show
obedience to the laws of God, from which the
morality of all Christian codes is educed.
With wickedness on the throne, pollution in
the palace, infidelity at the head of the church,
how can the nation increase in piety, virtue
and goodness? The great blessing of a female
reign is in its purity of court morals and its
decorum of manners. These strengthen the
religious elements of human nature and give
soul the supremacy over sense.
	This example of strict virtue on the British
throne was imperatively needed; hence the
great blessing conferred by the reign of
Victoria, who is, in her private life a model
for her people. (Just here, in a footnote, Mrs.
Hale says: “Queens have excelled kings in ad-
ministration of civil government, not from
superior powers of reason, but from a clearer
moral sense. Isabella I, was the greatest
and noblest ruler who has governed Spain be-
cause she faithfully sought to do right.
Theresa Maria, with a very limited education,
was the wisest and best ruler who has held
sway over the Germanic Empire, because she
labored for the good of those she governed,
not for her own personal indulgences. Eliza-
beth was the most able ruler of men and the
most watchful for the welfare of her subjects
who had ever filled the British throne, because
she governed as the mother, not as the op-
pressor of her people. Compare the glories
and  prosperity of her reign with that which
preceded and that which followed. No won-
der the British people rejoice when the sceptre
passes into the hands of a woman,”)
	Now to return to her description of Victoria:
She finds time for all she wishes to do, and the
means from her allowed income. She is never
in debt. She is liberal in her charities, and,
from her own private purse has pensioned
many deserving persons, including many
literary ladies  of England.
	Compare Victoria’s character and conduct
since she came to the throne with the best
sovereign of her royal line. The Georges I
and II were hardly above the brutes; we would
not bring this excellent queen into comparison
with such men. Nor with George IV, the
profligate sensualist, who disgraced the title of
“gentleman;” nor with William IV.
	But we will take him who has been vaunted
as the good king, George III. He was narrow
minded, cruel and selfish. It is notorious that
he delighted in signing death warrants, and
never would grant a pardon to the condemned
unless driven by the greatest importunities.
Victoria pardons even against the remon-
strances of her advisers; and so painful to her
is the signature of her name to the death
penalty that she has been relieved from the
duty, though the delight of the pardoning
power she holds firmly.
	Of the manner in which their respective sen-
timents of honor and honesty contrast, the
following, from the pen of an English gentle-
man, will, testify: “Frederick, Prince of Wales,
father of George III, died considerably in debt,
of which his son, such as he was, never paid a
farthing. So much for George III, as a son;
let us look at him as a father. No sooner was
George, Prince of Wales, (afterwards George
IV) born, than his father laid hands on the
Duchy of Cornwall and all other property
to which his son was entitled, appropriated
the rents and profits thereof to his own use,
and never accounted to the latter for any part
of them whatever (as he was bound to do on
hiss son’s coming of age), but sent the son to
Parliament for the payment of his debts!”
	How different the conduct of Victoria!
With an income of not more than half the
amount of that possessed by her grandfather,
George III, her almost first act on coming to
the throne was to pay her father’s (the Duke
of Kent’s) debts out of her own privy purse;
and on the birth of her son, (the Prince of
Wales) she had his Duchy and other property
put into the hands of responsible commission-
ers to be protected and made the most of for
him till he was of age. It is impossible to
study carefully the manifestations of character
in the sexes, without seeing on every side
proofs of the superior moral endowments of
the female. Woman is the conservator of
truth and purity; the first teacher and best
example of the Christian virtues. When
God, by whom "kings reign,” exalts woman to
the government of a great kingdom, we are
led to believe it is for the purpose of promot-
-ing the best interests of virtue, religion, and
social happiness. There was never a time when
moral power might be so effectively and glorious-
ly employed as at the present.  The emtire phsy-
ical force is crumbling into ruins. It is fitting
that, the reign of feeling and intellect, of in-
dustry and peace, should be ushered in by
woman!
[Copied for the EXPONENT by E. S. D.]


The universities of Norway are now open to
women, and any Norwegian girl may strive for
the highest degrees that her country has to
offer as a reward for scholarship.


SCHOOL-ROOM CROWDING.

DIRECTOR BROWN'S DREAM.

	At the close of a March day, Dr. Toby was
returning from his round of visits. His pa-
tients that day were mostly children. Scarlet
fever, measles, diphtheria, ophthalmia in var-
ious forms, had taxed his skill and touched
his sympathies. His way lay past Brown's,
and he determined to call. He hoped to hear
Brown's lively comments on the events of the
day, and so succeed in driving away the re-
collections of the scenes of suffering he had
witnessed—scenes doubly distressing to him
because he believed them to be in a great
measure preventable.
	Contrary to expectation, he found Brown
taciturn, sober, blue. He rallied him on his
gloominess, when Brown exclaimed: "Now,
doctor, I know you'll laugh, and tell me to
avoid late suppers; but the fact is, I have had
a dream, and cannot shake off the impression
it has made. It has set me thinking," and
Brown thrust his hands in his pockets, dropped
his chin upon his chest and gazed steadily at
the fire in the grate.
	"It wants an hour to dinner, and I have no
engagement, so let me hear the wonderful
dream," said the doctor.
	Brown seized the poker, stirred the fire un-
til it glowed, and thus began:
	"It seemed that I stood before the gates of
the Golden City and knocked for admission.
A voice cried out, 'Who's there?' 'Brown,'
said I. 'Too indefinite and the form of St.
Peter appeared above the gate with a large
book in his hand, in which he seemed to
search. 'Occupation?' he asked. 'Merchant,'
I replied. 'Brown—merchant,' said the good
saint, running his finger down the page; 'Not
here;' and he seemed about to close the book.
'School trustee,' I added, in a hesitating tone.
He turned again to the book. Running his
finger down the page, he said, 'Brown, trustee
of P.S. No. 505.' 'That's it,' said I, sudden-
ly brightening up, for if my name was there,
I thought I had only to walk to the cashier's
desk and draw my dividend. 'Well! what
good have you done down there?' said the
saint, nodding in the direction of the world.
This dampened my ardor. I remembered that
I had received, on one occasion, three votes for
deacon of onr church; that I was a director in
a horse railroad; that I put my name on to all
subscription papers presented; but none of
these seemed to suit the atmosphere of the
country in which I was, and so I ventured to
say that I had a school-house built in my
ward.
	"The good saint, who had been gazing in-
tently upon a group of children playing on the
sunny bank, suddenly turned to me and said :
'What kind of one ?' I wished that I had had
with me some of the plans we have in our
board. They look so fine upon paper, and so
much like a rope-walk, or tenement house,
when put into brick and mortar. I described
P. S. No. 505 to the best of my ability.
'Nothing like it in these parts,' said he; 'how
many do you put in a school?' 'That depends,'
said I. 'Depends on what?' said he, in a tone
of voice that made my knees tremble. 'Upon
how many want to come,' I replied. 'What
do you do when the rooms are full?' he then
asked. 'Make additional ones out of the play
rooms,' I answered. 'Where do the children
then play?' he inquired, in a tone I did'nt like;
but I plucked up courage and answered, 'They
don't come to school to play but to learn.' I
said this all the bolder because it wasn't
original with me.
	" 'When these are full, what do you do then?'
he asked, in a tone that indicated that he
thought he had me cornered. 'Put them in
wardrobes, and under the stairs,' I said quite


[Column 1]
﻿readily. ‘What then?’ said he, with a stern-
ness that made me wish I hadn’t been quite so
fluent with my answers. ‘Put them in church
basements;' and I emphasized the word church,
hoping to turn his thoughts from school houses,
that are used five days in the week, to churches
that are used but one day in the week. But I
didn’t succeed. ‘What then?’ said he, impa-
tiently. ‘We promote and fill up again.’ The
good saint made a gesture of despair. ‘What
kind of teachers do you give these little ones,
crowded into dark basements, huddled into
wardrobes, stifled under stairways? Good
ones, I hope; those with judgment and exper-
ience, and full of love for them.’
	“I was sorry that he touched on this subject,
for I thought he would pardon my sins in the
school-houses, as I was but one out of many;
but in the matter of teachers I feared that I
had not so much to plead in excuse, so I an-
swered: 'Your reverence, when I go to Boston
and am asked this question, I say yes; but as
your city doesn’t lie in that latitude, I might
as well confess that I do no such thing. I put
in young girls sixteen years of age, who can’t
define judgment, much less possess it; with no
experience; pupils themselves yesterday, teach-
ers to-day, with the destinies of eighty or a
hundred little children in their hands; heads
so filled with balls, parties, and novels, that
there is little room for love of children—these
are they to whom I commit the children in
dark basements, crowded wardrobes, and stifled
closets!” and, doctor, I dared not look the
good saint in the face, but stood with bowed
head before him. Presently he said, ‘Look!’
I looked, and beheld a great multitude of
children whom no man could number, sporting
on the plains of the Golden City. ‘There are
they whom scarlet fever, diphtheria, pneumonia,
have taken from your ill-ventilated, fever-
breeding school-rooms, under the charge of
children themselves. Think of how many
desolated homes, blighted hopes, those children
represent. There was a crash, the golden gate
vanished, and in letters of fire I read these
words: ‘Inasmuch as ye did it not unto the
the least of these, ye did it not unto me.’
	There was silence for some moments, broken
at last by the doctor, who said: “You have
seen the children released from their bodily
sufferings; I to-day have seen them writhing
under their pains. Ill-ventilated and over-
crowded school-rooms are the remote causes of
a large amount of this suffering. Both public
and private schools are equally guilty. We [--]
wonder at the stupidity of our fathers, who
provided seats without backs for their children,
but gave them plenty of fresh air and of room.
Posterity will condemn us, who provide com-
fortable seats, and deprive our children of air
and of room. Your plan of putting six or
eight children on a bench, so closely seated
that they can hardly move, is horrible. Itch,
lice, and sore eyes travel along the whole line.”
	“No such children are allowed in my school,”
said Brown.
	“Nothing but a minute daily examination
can determine that,” continued the doctor.
	“And have your young and inexperienced
teachers, who, with a fatal blindness, are
placed over them, the time, tact, and judgment
to make this examination?” Brown did not
reply, and the doctor went on. “As a citizen
of this commonwealth, each child has a right
to his individuality; to a separate and distinct
seat, to at.least six square feet of space, over
which he is master and for which he is respon-
sible. Citizens of a republic can be made in
no other way. All this abominable arrange-
ment of settees, galleries and extra seats, must
be relegated to the dark ages.”
“Doctor, you are crazy. On this plan P. S.
505, with its two thousand pupils, would be-
come a one horse affair of about five hundred,”
said Brown; "and from being chairman of the

[Column 2]
first school in the city, I should come down to
the level of Jones, who is chairman of a little
primary in the suburbs. I never would con-
sent to that. A Frenchman, in my presence,
boasted of his famous schools, with a beggarly
two or three hundred. When I told him mine
had over two thousand, you should have seen
him open his eyes. Think of the cost. Four
schools to do the work of P. S. No. 505.
	“Not all the work, Brown,” replied the doc-
tor; “they couldn’t fill the cemetery so fast.
There is money for jails, almshouses, and pri-
sons, when over crowded—why not for schools?”
	“We don’t get half of the money now for
which we ask,” objected Brown.
	“If the class is full, refuse them,” answered
the doctor; “refuse them in justice to those
already there, in justice to themselves.”
	“But is not a half a loaf better than no
bread?” queried Brown.
	“Not if the half offered contain the seeds of
ill-health and premature decay,” said the doc-
tor.
	Brown said nothing, and the doctor con-
tinued: “Medical men have written volumes
upon the evils of over-crowding the schools.
Again and again have they demonstrated the
least space a child should have; the lasting
evils of foul-air, the eye-destroying power of
ill-arranged barracks are continually repeated.
We cannot hold our own with the schools of
other nations, unless there be great improve-
ment, both in their physical and mental con-
ditions. The editors did not go through the
great Exposition with their eyer shut. With
our wonderful physical and mechanical pros-
perity our schools have not been keeping pace.
In the next ten years the press will hold every
school trustee to a strict account of his steward-
ship. Brown take a step in advance to better
the physical condition of P. S. No. 505. Re-
duce your grammar classes to forty pupils,
your primary classes to fifty, give each pupil
a separate desk, put over him a man or a
woman for a teacher, not a girl who still ought
to be in the academic class or normal school;
and then, when you approach, in reality, the
gate of the Golden City, no pupil of P. S. No.
505 will be there to accuse you of crowding
him out of life.”
 “Toby, there’s my hand; I’ll do it!” said
Brown; and the good doctor went home with
the happy consciousnes that the resolve meant
life and wealth to many a child, for Brown
was a man of his word.
 Gentlemen of the Education Boards in the
cities of our fair land, will you not follow
Brown’s example?—Sanitarian.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE DELEGATE.

	Hon. John T. Caine, Delegate from Utah,
took his seat in the House of Representatives,
Jan. 17, 1883, for the unexpired term of the
Forty-seventh Congress. Following are the
particulars as published in the Congressional
Record of the 18th January:

	Mr. Pettibone.—"Mr. Speaker: I rise to
make a privileged motion. I am authorized
by the Committee on Elections to report to the
House in the matter of the application of Mr.
John T. Caine to be admitted to a seat for the
unexpired term of the present Congress as a
Delegate from the Territory of Utah, that the
committee, having had the same under consid-
eration, have unanimously adopted the resolu-
tion with which their report concludes, and
which resolution I ask the Clerk to read."
	The Speaker.—"The resolution will be read."
	The Clerk read as follows:
	Resolved, That John T. Caine was duly elect-
ed as a Delegate to Congress from the Terri-
tory of Utah for the unexpired term of the
Forty-seventh Congress, and is entitled to the
seat as such Delegate.


The Speaker.—“The question is upon agree-
ing to the resolution.”
	The resolution was agreed to.
	Mr. Pettibone.—“If there is no objection, I
now ask consent that Mr. Caine be sworn in.”
There was no objection.
Mr. Caine, then appearing before the bar of
the House, was duly qualified, taking the oath
prescribed by Section 1756 of the Revised
Statutes.


KNITTING FACTORY,
On 1st W. St., Bet. 2d and 3d W. Next Door South of W. H. Hooper’s.
Men's Socks, Ladies' and Childrens' Stockings, Infants
Knitted Shirts and Shoes, Ladies' and Children's Hoods,
etc.  Family Knitting done on Reasonable Terms.
CAROLINE C. RALEIGH,
19th WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
MRS. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D,
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th. and 6th. East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.
Telephonic Communication between Office and Residence
AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent’s Clothing and . ’
Carpets, Ladies’ and Children’s Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSAS WANTED
			S. P. TEASDEL.
Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d
and 4th East Streets.
Special Study has been given to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS,
Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, Brown Yarns, Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linsoys,	Cassimers,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brushes, Etc., Etc.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
---HAVE---
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STOHE. Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
Spring and Summer Goods.
DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
H. DENWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND BET AIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
PRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPERS
-AND-
BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77, & 79, First South Street
SALT LAKE CITY


[handwritten] Pratt

WOMEN'S ﻿EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

