VOL. 11.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1882. 			NO. 6.


OUR GOD IS GREAT, AND NATURE IS
			HIS PROPHET.
Nature! glorious nature! ’tis of thee I love to sing,
And thy stupendous “changes,” how lovingly I ring;”
Well might the unenlightened, but the still adoring soul
Before thy Godly presence, bow down without control,
The child of God thou truly art, his image thou dost bear,
His handmaid, his beloved one! on earth, his chosen heir;
In all thy footprints, God is seen, and in thy beauteous
	hand,
And in thy smile, and fostering care, as witness thou
	dost stand
Of Him, the great Creator of all the eye beholds,
And all the starry worlds above, that the firmament
	unfolds.
Creator of all human-kind, in whom He doth declare
His image, both in form, and mind, eternally is there.
Oh! glorious nature! thou hast been a loving nurse to me
And ever fed, and filled my soul with glowing extacy!
In soft, low whisp’rings thou hast taught my craving
	soul to learn
The Alpha and Omega of a language that doth burn
Into the heart and brain of those, who with an ear attent,
Wait, ever listening to catch the message daily sent;
Its ministering aids are those that wait on nature’s call
It may come in the cataract, or in the cascade fall,
It may be written on the vault of Heaven’s ethereal blue
It may come in the starry night, when worlds appear
	to view;
It may come in the Summer rain, or in the zephyr breeze,
It may come in the running streams, or the language of
	the trees;
It may be in the flowers, the poets, nature names
For mirth, and galas, and alas! for solemn requiem
	claims;
In the oceans’ roar, or on the land, or in the ambient air,
Voices are heard by listening ears, yes, voices everywhere
The artillery of Heaven, ’tis grand to sit and hear,
With holy awe, and holy charm, but not one pang of
	fear!
It seems the voice of God to us, but not in lettered word
As when on some important deed the cannon’s voice is
	heard.
Yes! nature is a Bible—of beauty, love and dread,
An open book, upon whose leaves our Father can be
	read;
His God-like presence broods around, his voice too, we
	can hear,
From which in Eden’s garden Adam "hid himself" for
	fear!
May we so live that every day our hearts are joyful
	made,
And walk the earth and hear his voice, yet never feel
	afraid;
For oh! so much of love is seen, so much of care dis
	play’d
For all the denizens of earth, how can we be afraid?
The Druids worshiped ln their groves, in one of nature’s
	Fanes
A temple reared to nature’s God, without man’s aid or
	pains.
And even in this “polish’d age” methinks ’tis sweet to
	stand
Upon the silent mountain top with upraised eye and
	hand,
And feel there’s naught dividing us from Heaven’s eter-
	nal blue,
But only that ethereal veil that hides Him from our
	view.
Oh earth! I love thee, as a child loves home, and all
	that’s there!
My mother earth! thou art to me, the fairest of the fair.
And when within the sacred Book, we see thy future,
	grand,
It causes both the heart and brain to joyfully expand;
And realize how well content we’ll be with such a home,
All purified, and glorified, where God and Christ will
	come,

And visit with the ransom’d Saints, and with the Kings
	and Priests;
Whom they, the righteous, have redeemed from death,
	and sin released.
When all creation will pass thro’ a new immortal birth
The holy book says newness, both to Heaven and to
	earth,
Then NATURE, empress of the earth, all glorified shall be
And never more within her hand the dreadful rod we’ll
	see;
But in her sweetest, holiest moods, with aspect all be-
	nign,
She’ll wield her sceptre but in love, to weld and to
	combine;
No jarring elements will then,discordant wound the ear,
But “peace on earth, good will to man” be nature’s
	chanticle er.
August 4th.					HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
LETTER ON PLURAL MARRIAGE.

Miss Esther M. Parker, Greenville, Penn.
	Dear Cousin: Although I so recently
answered your last letter, I trust you will
grant me pardon for thus unceremoniously ad-
dressing you again, but as I only merely
touched upon the course our enemies are pur-
suing against us as a people, I wish to give
you a few of my views on the subject, not as a
retort to the many vile and libelous slanders so
widely circulated about us, but to tell you
truths as I know them. When I see men,
who are, or should be, placed by the voice of
the people at the head of the government, so
far lose sight of their duties as guardians of
the constitutional laws of this great Republic,
as to enact special legislation to deprive a por-
tion of her children (no matter how few) of
the inalienable right to worship God accord-
ing to the dictates of their own consciences
and then seek to rob them of the greatest
boon given to man to protect him in his liberty
as a responsible being, the right of franchise,
I cannot hold my peace. This right was be-
queathed to us by our forefathers who suffered
untold privation, fought, bled and many of
them died for their country's cause, while our
foremothers labored in poverty and distress at
home, bearing the deep mental anguish of
heart that none but true, patriotic wives and
mothers could bear, it kindles the fire of old '76
in my blood, which I am ever proud and happy
to say runs through my veins as uncontamin-
ated, as when in the veins of my veteran father,
who bore arms in the war of 1812. He ever
taught his children that the spirit of our
glorious constitution was heaven-born; and that
God inspired Columbus to the discovery of
this continent, and had reserved this land for
the express purpose that our Pilgrim fathers
and mothers might find an asylum from perse-
cution; but what a fearful digression from the
standard of justice and right that a Washing-
ton and his compeers so devotedly erected,
when clergymen, politicians, and the press all
claim, that they now are taking action against
us because we believe and practice polygamy.
	Now my dear cousin this is not true, al-
though they fain would make it appear so to
the nations abroad, and thus deceive many
otherwise well-meaning people of our own
nation, for well do I remember the time in
the year 1833 when my father and
brothers were hunted day and night by our
enemies, and only saved their lives by conceal-
ment, while my mother with a large family of
little children in connection with many others

[Column 2]
in like condition, was driven into the wilds of
the frontiers by a mob whose faces were paint-
ed as black as Ethiopians—and this at the
point of the bayonet, from Jackson Co., Miss-
ouri, barefooted through the crusted snow cut-
ting our feet until our path was a trail of blood
and however much we may deplore the fact
this mob was led and urged on by a divine,who
a few Sabbaths before had professed to be a
follower of the meek and lowly Jesus. Was
this because of our belief in polygamy? No,
truly no: for the principle of plural marriage
was not then known or even heard of in our
Church. Why then did they become so in-
furiated against us? I know no other reason
than that the angel, which John the revelator,
saw flying in the midst of heaven, having the
everlasting Gospel to preach to them that dwell
on the earth, had come and fulfilled that mis-
sion by appearing to Joseph Smith, the great
modern prophet, and giving him authority to
preach the Gospel as did Jesus and his Apostles
when on the earth; and it come so opposite to
their preconcerted creeds, that they sought to
destroy it, by persecuting the Church of God.
And that same spirit that caused them to do
so then, is now most assuredly urging them on
to deeds of great wrongs.
	As you are aware by my former letter to
you that I am a firm believer in and do sustain
the principle of plural marriage—the celestial
law or higher order of marriage, which not
only unites husbands and wives for time but
for all eternity, which last clause is the crown-
ing point for all. I will explain more fully, if
possible, my reason for so doing, and being a
firm believer in the Bible, I will take that as
my guide. I find by searching its pages where
God said to Abraham the father of the faith-
ful, (in whose bosom all good Christians are
praying to repose) "I will bless them that bless
thee and curse them that curse thee, and in
thee shall all families of the earth be blessed;"
Now this we understand is the promise pertain-
ing to Christ the Redeemer, who should come
and be crucified to atone for the sins of the
world, that as many as would hearken to his
word, might be brought back into the presence
of God; also in Galatians, "Now to Abraham
and to his seed were the promises made," and
He saith not unto seeds as of many, but as of
one, and of thy seed which is Jesus Christ,
and all who read the Bible know that Abraham
had more than one wife. Again I find the
same promise made of Christ that he should
come through the seed of Jacob; a man hav-
ing four wives, and of these plural wives came
the twelve patriarchs, whose names John the
revelator tells us are to be written on the
twelve gates of the holy city, even the new
Jerusalem. In Kings I read that David was
a man after God's own heart, and through his
loins a chosen seed should be raised up even
Jesus Christ the Redeemer. The Apostle Paul
in his day tells the people how the Lord said,
I have found the son of Jesse a man after
mine own heart which shall fulfill all my will,
of this man's seed hath God, according to
promise, raised unto Israel a Savior, Jesus.
Isaiah confirms the same by telling us, in
that day there shall be a root of Jesse which
shall stand as an ensign for the people, to it
shall the Gentiles seek and his rest shall be
glorious. Now I learn from the Bible that
Jesse, the father of David, was the son of Ruth
the plural wife of Boaz and that David his
son had many wives, yet in nothing did he dis-


[Column 1]
please the Lord only in the case of Uriah and
his wife. In Revelations it says one of the
Elders said unto me "weep not behold the lion
of the tribe of Judah hath prevailed to open
the book and loose the seven seals thereof. I
am Alpha and Omega the beginning and the
end; the first and the last. Again he says "I
am the root and the offspring of David the
bright and morning star, which makes it very
plain to my understanding that God had great
respect for those who believed and practised
plural marriage, and indeed preferred that
lineage for his holy son Jesus to come through,
and as he is the root of David, who was a man
after God's own heart, it becomes a most pos-
itive proof to me that Jesus Christ, is the
chief-corner stone and author of this principle;
therefore understanding and believing the
Bible as I do, reason and my own conscience
forces me not only to adopt the principle of
plural marriage in my faith, but I must prac-
tise the same. I also read in John, Chapter 8,
where our blessed Savior says, "if ye were
Abraham's children you would do the works
of Abraham." In Luke he says, there shall
be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you
shall see Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and all
the prophets in the kingdom of God, and ye
yourselves cast out. But this is not all, as I
have previously told you by letter. God has
commanded us through Joseph Smith, our
martyred prophet, that we must obey this law,
as did his ancient servants and handmaidens
that we may become one with him, or where
He dwells we cannot come. For us as a people
to ignore or set aside this principle would be
to incur the displeasure of an offended God.
I know those who are calling for special legis-
lation against us, say plural marriage is de-
generating and debasing, but I refer you to
where Jesus said to his disciples, "verily I say
unto you that ye which have followed me in
the regeneration, when the Son of man shall
sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit
upon the twelve thrones judging the twelve
tribes of Israel: Now let me ask what is this
regeneration he speaks of? Is it the mode of
doing away with the patriarchial order of
marrying more wives than one? No, that
cannot be for Jesus says himself, that a house
divided against itself cannot stand. And he
would thereby destroy himself for He was
born of that peculiar lineage; and all mankind
would thus be left without a Redeemer, and
therefore lose their salvation, then of necessity
in order to follow him in the regeneration and
become one with him we must be adopted into
the same lineage, and to the works of Abraham
and those to whom the promise of Christ was
given.
	The anti-polygamists say there are no true
homes where polygamy is practised. What a
strange contradiction in sinful man, praying
Congress to enact laws to tear our family ties
asunder, thereby casting hundreds of faithful,
virtuous wives and their children on a cold un-
feeling world, branding them with disgrace
and illegitimate birth, and at the same time
praying God that when they die he will take
them to Abraham's bosom,—Abraham who
was in every sense of the word a practical
polygamist. "O, consistency thou art a jewel"
It is also asserted by our enemies in Utah that
we are an oppressed people, by priestly domin-
ance and power; and that the women of Utah
are ignorant and down trodden, living in a
state of slavery and serfdom to their husbands
and the priesthood. This, dear cousin, is,
believe me, all false, and those who declare it
know in their hearts it is not true. There may
be homes that are not happy ones, and some
women who are tyrannized over by their hus-
bands. Let me ask you are there not similar
instances in other denominations, both in our
own country and abroad? If not we most
heartily congratulate them. But if there is

[Column 2]
such a condition of affairs near their own fire-
sides we would advise them to give heed to the
words of Jesus; "Pluck the beam out of thine
own eye that thou mayest see clearly to take
the mote out of thy brother's eye (or sister's as
the case may be.) It is also claimed by our
oppressors that the right of franchise for the
women of Utah is monopolized for partisan
purposes. This is also untrue. I have cast
my vote at every election in the proper place
and at the proper time ever since the privilege
was granted in 1870, and I can truthfully de-
clare I have never been instructed in regard to
my choice of candidate, neither have others of
our Church. I have read histories of the
nations from the first period of man's existance
on the earth, to the present time and I fail to
find anywhere on the pages of history, in any
age of the world where women have stood on a
higher plane or broader basis of liberty and
virtue than do the women of Utah, religiously,
socially and politically.
	With the deepest regard for the rights of
humanity, I subscribe myself as ever,
			Your sincere friend,
					NANCY ARETE CLARK.
Farmington, Utah
	Feb, 19, 1882.


42 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER TO A FRIEND.

ON THE DEATH OF A BELOVED BROTHER.

	Dear MOURNING FRIEND—I have just re-
ceived the letter that tells me of your loss; and
of your sorrow for the same; and at once, I sit
down to say whatever a sympathizing heart
may dictate, and make palpable on this paper,
that though far away you may realize that I
am near, and desire to offer a few words of con-
dolence that may soften your grief on the
removal of your dear brother from this stage
of action; he had been a great sufferer, and
there was no hope of a restoration to health,
and vigor; then we may rest assured he was
taken in love; "He is not dead but sleepeth."
Will you put on mourning apparel, and black
scarf for him, who is now covered with a glori-
ous attire of joy and gladness, who is adorned
with raiments as white as the unsunned
snow? I know by my own experience, that
Nature is imperative in her demands in such
sad moments, and she has a just right to her
dues, and when these are paid, revelation steps
in, and pointing up to the glorious mansions to
which he has attained, gently but forcibly bids
the eye to cease its weeping, the heart to quiet
its agonized throbbing; to dwell upon the love
that has released a suffering being, to place it
in joy and peace ineffable! it unfolds the vision
of our mind, and we see our beloved released,
from a suffering body, and emerging into a
higher life; renewed, invigorated with every
faculty expanded and increased in a ratio,
that our finite understandings cannot compute.
He is reunited with all the loved ones gone
before him. Above all, your mother! your
beloved, and most venerated mother—one you
all so richly appreciated, imagine their reun-
ion, both glorified and immortal beings, and
finding himself in a place where God is most
especially present. Though it may be, not yet
admitted into the immediate presence of the
great "I AM" but he, and all that blessed
throng have received a fulness, according to
their capability of receiving and enjoying, and
are in a state of eternal progression, happiness
and love. Longfellow beautifully says—and
he often puts a volume in a sentance.

"There is no death! what seems so is transition,
	"This life of mortal breath
Is but a suburb of the life elysian,
	"Whose portal we call death!"

	His poems all breathe of an inspired spirit

[Column 2]
teeming with intuition! and ever practical and
healthy; but it takes a poet to discern all the
blessed influences they contain. They are in
truth,

"Songs that have power to quiet
	The restless pile of care,
And come like a benediction
	That follows after prayer;"

Shall I say more? Words sound vain in scenes
of deep affliction, silence then seems eloquent.
We conquer best when we fight the battle of
life alone. We like David, when going to
fight Goliah have our own armor, another's does
not fit us.
	Our heart says in deep sorrow to the
choice and valued friend, don't speak, but
grasp my hand, with the grip of love and truth,
and strength will be infused by the sacred
touch of heaven-born friendship. Would I
were near to comfort you, but by the penning
of this letter you will see that my spirit was
with you in your grief; and who shall dare to
deny that by some propelling power—the dem-
onstration of which at this time we are very
ignorant of, and at best "see through a glass
darkly," who shall say that the spiritual breath-
ings of a sympathetic spirit, is not conveyed
instantly to its kindred, and congenial co-
spirit? and throws over it a soothing, com-
forting, enlightening influence in the hour of
trial, and gloom. When we have before our
eyes, what the mind of man, by the inspiration
of the Almighty has accomplished in this our
day, when by aid of steam, and wire, and
electricity, knowledge, has almost become
omniscient, and we can make known our wants
and wishes, thousands of miles distant, not only
on the surface of the land, but side by side
with the gulph stream of the mighty oceans;
the wire conveys the wishes, and demands the
sympathizing sentence, the telling of which
carries balm to many a broken heart, or car-
ries the secret affairs of nations to its expecting
ally. Can we then have the least possible
doubt that the Telegraphs of the eternal worlds
are not millions of times more efficient than
our terrestrial apparatus? Though beautiful,
and admirable they are but as the toys of
children to the accomplished mechanic! me-
thinks that the glorious operatives of the
empyreum smile with delighted aproval, when
they behold the attempts of the children of
earth, to make this terrestrial globe a worthy
footstool for the Creator and fashioner of the
same. By the whisperings of the spirit of
truth, much is made known to the listening
car of the truth seeker.
	My friend, in this your hour of darkness
and trial, may the light and truth of heaven
dawn upon your mind. I shall not apologize
for leading you a few steps into the paths of
science, by which the Christian can draw
analogy that opens the illumined volume of
eternity, and enables him, or her, to rise above
all terrestrial things, which are merely "suburbs
of the life elysian."
	I here lay aside the letter and would as a
postscript, now we are on the subject of death,
remark upon the many great ones of the world
and also some of our own venerated ones
among whom death has, within a few short
years made such havoc; the last two or three
years have been notable for the death of not-
able ones; and in the last few months Carlyle
Emerson, Longfellow and George Eliot, have
as if by consent passed away. I must make a
few of my sentiments palpable regarding these
"honored dead," but now I feel my Editor will
say Quantum Sufficit.
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, July 24th, 1882.


Justice is on the side of woman suffrage.—
William H. Seward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PLEA FOR OUR KINDRED.

When the prison doors were open,
	And the Savior entered there
They beheld the joyous token
	Who had long lain in despair, 

Oh, what pity filled his bosom!
	How his heart yearned to redeem!
They who scoffed the Prophet Noah
	Perished in the world's great stream.
How their elder brother loved them!
	There he went from off the cross
Bearing love and mercy with him,
	Anxious to repair their loss.

Faith, repentance and baptism,
	He proclaimed to every one
Simple though the message given
	He the same himself had done. 
	*	*	*	*	*
Though we're robed in gilt and purple
	Silk and scarlet deck our form
Will it cause our God to love us,
	While our kindred are forlorn?
Witing for the rising temples
	That our substance should adorn.
Salt Lake City, July 24th, 1882.
								M.L.M.


A ﻿REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
Continued.
Mrs. Horne has ever been an active worker
in beneyolent directions for the public good.
She was a member of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo, and there gained some knowledge,
through the teachings of the prophet Joseph,
concerning the mission of woman in this dispen-
sation,therefore when President Brigham Young
effected a reorganization of the Relief Society-
in the several wards of Salt Lake City she was
well prepared to take hold of the work under-
standing. In the first organization of the
fourteenth ward in this city, in the Spring of
1857, Mrs. Horne was set apart as a Counselor
to the President of the Relief Society, Mrs.
Phoebe Woodruff.  In this capacity she lab-
ored diligently and faithfully until the time of
the move South, when the Society was no lon-
ger able to operate as an organized body.  On
the 15th of October 1857, another babe, a
little girl, was added to the happy household,
making the eighth daughter.  Of these boys
and girls now grown to manhood and woman-
hood we shall have more to say towards the
close of this brief history.
 In April, 1858, President Young notified
Mrs. Horne to prepare to go South as far as
Parowan—Mr. Horne had been previously
called to go in to Southern Utah to assist in
developing the cotton interests in Dixie.  This
was at the time of the vacating of the city
when Johnston’s army had been sent to sub-
due the “Mormons.”’ Think of the many
families who left the homes they had labored
so hard to make in this new and desolate land;
and how many women with little ones around
them were obliged to go out from homes, taking
only the bare necessaries of household comforts,
and take once more to the tents and wagons
for shelter!  Mrs. Horne had a family of ten
children and only two boys old enough to ren-
der much assistance.  The children were not
very well supplied with clothing for a journey
of that kind, and one of the twin daughters
was just recovering from a severe atack of in-
flamation of the lungs; but nothing daunted
Mrs. Horne was mistress of the situation, and
set to work in earnest, making the necessary
preparations for the journey.  This sacrifice of
home under such peculiarly trying circum-
stances was one of the severest trials (Mrs.
Horne says) of her life. 
	The distance was two hundred and fifty miles,
and everything was in readiness  start by
the first of May.  She bade adieu to her pleas-
ant home with a cheerful heart, relying upon
God for protection for herself and children,
knowing not whether she should ever see her
home again.  This heroic mother took her
babe six months old in her arms and drove in
a light wagon the entire distance.  She had
her four youngest children in the same con-
veyance, the eldest of them but four years old.
What will surprise our readers, especially those
outside of the “Mormon” Church, was that
she took her husband’s other family in the
same wagon with herself.  One can form some
idea of the elevation of character necessary to
rise above every feeling of selfishness under
such circumstances as these were.  It took
some time to reach Parowan in this way, stop-
ping to rest the teams and make calculations
to camp where there was feed for the horses
and cattle, and the family reached their destin-
ation about the first of June, among strangers
and homeless; but Mrs. Horne soon made friends,
Br. Edward Dalton and family were most kind
in allowing her the freedom of their house to
cook and eat; which was a great accomodation
in a time like that, and soon after her husband
came up from the Dixie country to visit them
and built two small board rooms for them.
Meantime Mrs. Horne earned enough by tak-
ing in sewing to make her little flock of child-
ren comfortable.  It may he wondered how in a
time of such scarcity, she could supply cloth-
ing for her family by taking in sewing.  Some
Saints had just arrived in Parowan from San
Bernardino, loaded with goods, and in need of
help to make up clothing, and Mrs Horne glad-
ly availed herself of this opportunity.  Her
eldest son, the only one old enough to
render much assistance, returned to Salt Lake
and was detained to assist in putting in late
crops, so she was obliged to do without his help.
In September, word reached the Saints who
had gone South that difficulties had been so
far adjusted that all who wished might return
home.  She received the news gladly, and
sold what she could of the household fur-
niture she had gathered around her, and en-
gaged a man to help load up, and to drive one
of her teams.  Mrs. Horne arranged every-
thing in the best possible manner, bade good-
bye to her kind friends in Parowan and joy-
fully started for home about the middle of Sep-
tember.  She drove one of the teams with her
babe in her arms, as she had on the former
journey, the man drove the other and the
children took turns in driving the cows. Mrs.
home is be thoroughly efficient a business
woman, that she knows when others fulfill their
responsibilities as they ought, and she soon
ascertained that the man’s services she had en-
gaged were of little value—in fact she felt
she would have been better off without him.
The journey home was tedious and hard and
when she arrived in Payson the man she had
employed decided to remain there, so her
own little boys drove the team and the girls
drove the cows.  They got along very well
until they reached American Fork, when the
wind started blowing furiously and beat direct-
ly in their faces, during the forepart of the
day, making it almost impossible to travel.  In
the afternoon the wind went down and rain
fell heavily.  Night overtook them at Little
Cotton Wood, and it was impossible to proceed
any further in the storm so this courageous
mother with only her little children and teams
encamped for the night by the side of the
road.  They could not light a fire it was so
wet and the little folks were hungry, sleepy
and uncomfortable.  Mrs. home says: “I hope
I shall never have to pass another such a night.
Our wagons leaked and the rain wet every-
thing in them.  I guarded my children the
best I could during the night, and emptied
dish after dish of rain water which I caught.
But as every difficulty has an end so had this
one.” At daylight they started on their
journey and arrived in Salt Lake City in time
to partake of breakfast in their old home; re-
turning heartfelt thanks to the Father for his
protecting care upon the journey and their
safe return.  Mrs. Horne took such a severe
cold in the storm that she suffered from neu-
ralgia in the face for the next three months.
She had a hard struggle to get along with her
family and all the domestic work after her
return, as she was constantly in pain and with-
out any help, but she managed to live and
take care of her little ones; though the burden
must have been a very heavy one.  She had
however the assistance of her son Henry whom
she found in Salt Lake on duty when she re-
turned home.  Late in the fall of that year
Mr. Horne returned from his Southern mission.
Perhaps some idea may be gathered from the
foregoing, of the fortitude and faith of “Mor-
mon” women under trying circumstances—
and while their husbands and often their sons
are engaged in public duties in the Kingdom,
in various fields of labor or upon missions
abroad, preaching the Gospel to the nations of
the earth.  Who can read the foregoing and
not feel that Mrs. Horne’s mission, though of
a home nature, was not as important a one in
every sense of the, word, requiring not only
great moral courage and business tact, but
great faith and trust in Him, who rides upon 
the storm and tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb.
To be Continued.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The torture of a bad conscience is the he o
a living soul.—Calvin.

	No way has been found for making heroism
easy, even for the scholar. Labor, iron labor,
is for him. The world was created as an audi-
ence for him; the atoms of which it is made
are opportunities.—Emerson.

	FLOWERS.—Much of the poetry of life
springs from flowers! How delicate a pleasure
it is to twine the orange blossom or japonica for
the bride, to arrange a bouquet for the invalid,
or to throw simple flowers in [-]ip of child-
hood!

	FALSE DIGNITY.—True dignity does not
scorn amusement. The man or woman who
thinks innocent pastime foolish, has yet a les-
son in good sound common sense to learn.
Playfulness is by no means inconsistent with
dignity and self-respect, Punch once said:
“Men and women have died of dignity;” he
meant false dignity.

	PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.—Boccaccio was
thirty-five years old when he commenced his
studies in polite literature. Yet he became
one of the three great masters of the Tuscan
dialect, Dante and Petrarch being the other
two. There are many among us ten years
younger than Boccaccio, who are dying of en-
nui and regret that they are not educated to a
taste for literature, supposing that they are too
old.

	No advanced thought, no mystical philoso-
phy, no glittering abstractions, no swelling
phrases about freedom, not even science with
its marvelous inventions and discoveries, can
help us much in sustaining this republic; still
less can godless theories of creation, or any in-
fidel attempts to rule out the Redeemer from
His rightful supremacy in our hearts, afford
any hope of security. That way lies despair.
—R. C. Winthrop.


44 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	AUGUST 15, 1882.


[Column 1]	
	THE POLITICAL SITUATION.

	The present condition of political affairs in
Utah is certainly peculiar.  The Utah Commis-
sioners appointed by the President of the United
States, in accordance with the provisions of the
Edmund's bill, were too slow in coming her to
regulate the August election of the current year,
and consequently some of those who are so
anxious about the people of this little Territory,
felt something must be done.  They were not
willing to let well enough alone, when all was
peace and quiet, and allow the men who had
filled the several offices creditably and efficient-
ly continue until an election could be held ac-
cording to the provisions already made by the
statutes of Utah, and so communicated with
Congress upon the subject and stirred that hon-
orable body up to do something before the ad-
journment.  Pursuant to the request of the
Judges who, of course, were supposed to know
the real needs of Utah, Congress invested the
Governor of the Territory with power, to ap-
point men, to fill such offices, as would be, as
they considered, made vacant, by failure to
hold the August election.  However in limiting
the tenure of office, of men so appointed, to
eight months; it appears a great mistake has
been made, by those who should be thoroughly
acquainted with the laws of election in this
Territory, as no provision is made for any other
regular election except in August, save the
election for delegate to Congress in November.
Without elaborating upon the matter of the
term of these appointees of Governor Murray,
one may perhaps be permitted to give an opin-
ion concerning the authority invested in Gov.
Murray to act in this most important, on might
say vital matter.  This supremacy given to one
man over one hundred and fifty thousand people,
is utterly at variance with all the true principles
of a free government.  A free Republic, accord-
ing to the definitions given by the greatest
statesmen that America could ever boast, is a
government "by the people for the people."
Gov. Murray may be considerate and act with
great wisdom and prudence, but what does he
know of the people, their needs and wishes over
whom he has been authorized to exercise such
wonderful power.  The Governor has a splendid
opportunity now to manifest that nobility of
character that men in high positions should pos-
sess, or at least cultivate, in order to gain the
love and admiration of the people; although he
may esteem the regard of this people, their
prayers and blessings of little value, yet they
might be a richer mine of genuine wealth than
all he will ever receive from the public treasury
of the nation.
	It would be well for those who are so exercised
over Utah affairs to stop and consider, before
they enter the lists in a political campaign
against the people who wrested these desert
lands from barrenness and made them teem with
plenty for man and beast.

			[Column 2]
	There is no person unless the spirit of pro-
phecy was given him can tell what will be the
result of this adverse legislation being put in
operation here in this Territory.  It is too serious
a subject to make light of, and those who have
labored so diligently and continuously in making
Utah habitable and desirable, who have endured
hardships no tongue can tell, in settling the
waste places, need the wisdom of heaven to
help them in this emergency, that they speak
no evil, that they do nothing to bring them un-
der the condemnation of the Almighty.  "God
moves in a mysterious way his wonders to per-
form," and no doubt it is all in the great pro-
gramme, only we have not been permitted to
see what was to be done; until the time came
for this scene to be enacted.  However it is well
known to the L. D. Saints thaht God's hand is
over his people and He will protect those who
trust in Him and abide in his laws.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE were gratified to see as a motto for the
"Utah Journal," a new publication just issued
in Logan, these words, "The highest possible
liberty to man and woman." This promises
well, and we have no doubt the paper will be an
efficient help in all the various directions for the
benefit and elevation of all who peruse its
pages.
	The programme was exceedingly well ren-
dered, and the best of order was kept although
the meeting was long and the day was unusually
warm. It is gratifying to see the great improve-
ment that is being made through these Associa-
tions. Our visit to Pleasant Grove will be en-
graved upon the mind, in consequence of the
representation made by the children.
	ON July 18, ult. Sister E. R. S. Snow and E.
C. Clawson attended the annual meeting or
Conference of the Primary Associations of West
Jordan. The Association is under the presidency
of Mrs. Eliza Bird. There were about two hun-
dred children present, and the exercises were
very well rendered, reflecting great credit upon
all those who have the care of these little ones
as well as the children themselves. Following
is the programme: Select reading by Daniel
Wright; recitation, Emma J. Merrit; Song,
Annie and Mary Naylor; Essay, Solon Richard-
son; Articles of Faith in concert, 'Sarah A. And-
erson, Sarah J. Anderson, Rosetta Bennet,
Emily Egbert and Carrie Gardner; dailogue'
Isacc Wardle and Neil Anderson; Essay, Re-
becca Goff; Questions and Answers on the Res-
toration of the Gospel by, Archibald Haun, Jos
eph Goff, Albert Smith, James, Mary and
Francis Goff; Dialogue, Naomi Goff and Rhoda
A. Turner; recitation, David Haun.

	ON Monday July 31, a special meeting of
the Primary Association was held in the 21st
Ward meeting house, Mrs Mary Davis presiding.
Bishop Burt and other brethren of the Ward
were present. A number of lady visitors were
present by invitation, and addressed the child-
ren, after they had finished their exercises.
The children kept very good order. The singing
and reciting was all well done, and spoke well
for those engaged in the entertainment. Inter-
esting remarks were made by Mrs. Zina D. H-
Young, Ellen C. Clawson, Emmeline B. Wells,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Romania B. Pratt, and
Louie Felt.

	UNION Ward Relief Society held its annual
meeting on Thursday August 8, in the Ward
house, Mrs. Elizabeth Richards presiding,
Bishop Phillips and Counselor Terry, also
other brethren were present. Visitors from
Salt Lake Sisters M. I. Horne, H. M. Whitney

[Column 2]
and E. B. Wells. The annual report was read
by the Secretary, showing what had been done
during the past year, which was very creditable
indeed. The business seems to be conducted in
the most economical and and thorough manner.
After the sisters had finished speaking, Bishop
Phillips made a few remarks, upon several sub-
jects of interest, also alluded to Job and his suf-
ferings, and compared his condition to that of any
who think themselves sorely aggrieved and af-
flicted nowadays. All seemed to feel well and
enjoy a good spirit.

	THE first regular monthly meeting of the
board of directors of the Deseret Hospital, was
held in the reception room of the building on
Monday, August 7, at eleven a. m. Considerable
business was transacted, and arrangements
made for systematic work. Already eleven cases
have been registered there besides some out
door patients. The preliminary work of inaug-
urating this institution has been more arduous
than the general public are likely to have im-
agined. The earnestness and determination of
the ladies is most admirable. Great credit is
due to the several committees, who have so ably
performed their portion of work, especially the
canvassing committee, whose duties are of a
very delicate nature. There is still a great deal
to be accomplished, and more remains,for it is a
stupendous undertaking for women without
means of their own, and depending upon the
liberality of the people, and the several organiza-
tions. It is hoped that all Latter-day Saints will
feel to sustain the movement, it is certainly a
laudable enterprise, and one that will require
patience, diligence, an abundance of faith and a
large amount of money to make it permanently
successful.

	THE annual meeting of the Relief Society of
Pleasant Grove, was held on the 3rd of August,
in the meeting house of that place. There were
present by invitation, Sisters E. R. S. Smith,
Zina D. H. Young, and E. B. Wells, from Salt
Lake City. Sisters M. T. Smoot and M. Johns
from Provo, Ann D. Bringhurst from Springville,
Rebecca Standring and Sister Coleman from
Lehi, Mary Hindley, Ellen D. Clark and Sister
Greenwood from American Fork; besides some
others from the adjacent towns. The Primary
Association with their President and Counselors
were at the depot when the sisters arrived, and
greeted them with some of their "beautiful
songs," rendered in the very best manner, their
fresh young voices ringing out in the open air
sweet, rich, clear and full of melody. Just be-
yond were some of the Juvenile martial band,
in their stylish uniform, with their instruments
playing their very best music to welcome the
sisters. The meeting at ten a. m. was conducted
by Mrs. E. Brown, President R. S. of that place.
The sisters who spoke presented in a forcible
and earnest manner the subject of the Deseret
Hospital; they also touched briefly but explicitly
upon many other subjects and alluded to the
signs of the times.
	In the afternoon the Primary convened num-
bering about 150 children. Mrs. Harriet C.
West presiding, assisted by her Counselors.


OUR HOSPITAL.
Yes, at last we are so blest as to have a Home for
our afflicted, and for the sick poor, wherein they
will be attended by kind, and efficient physicians,
and nurses who will carefully watch over, and
attend to their respective cases.  It has been in-
augurated cheifly by the sisters, they mooted
the sub ject a long  time and means, and much
consulation, with efficient minds to carry it
out and accomplish something satisfactory.- It


[Column 1]
is a greater work, than the general public have
any idea of, and nothing but brave hearts, clear
heads, and enduring perseverance could have
brought it, even into its present incipient state,
for, as yet, it is indeed only an embryo, but
there are visibly the germs of perfection in it,
and an energetic spirit, one of love and charity,
and heartfelt benevolence has attended its in-
augurators.  The dedication of the house and all
its departments, which took place July 17th,
1882, was, in every way, impressive and anim-
ating.  President Taylor, though suffering un-
der a heavy domestic bereavement, presided,
and spoke as he ever does, with wisdom and
kindness, giving to the institution, and to all
connected with it, his full approval, faith, and
cordial support.  President Joseph F. Smith fol-
lowed in the same kind spirit; and all the
speeches were to the point, and showed every
heart beat with one pulsation, regarding the
work on hand.
	The sisters nominated to officiate in the Hos-
pital were blest, and dedicated to their respective
offices; President Taylor through all assisting,
and officiating.  Mayor Jennings spoke kindly,
and wisely and endorsed his address with--as he
called it, "a small donation," which on opening
was found to be a cheque for five hundred dol-
lars. 
	The smile and approbation of our God is upon
that institution, and will be, we trust, upon all
who officiate in it.  In all earthly undertakings
men and women are, God's delegates, and dis-
pensers, and I feel in this affair, our people will
make this a noble demonstration.  Let us all,
as far as we are able, follow the example of
Mayor Jennings, even the "Widow's mite,"  will
be an addition to the PILE, and let such not
shrink from laying down the humble coin, feel-
ing ashamed that it is so small, beside the the noble
donations of the rich, let us remember the words
of our Savior and the plaudit He bestowed on
"the poor widow" when putting in her “mite”
which was a current coin of that day and age.
The Scotch have a proverb "Many a nickle
makes a mickly" and if the mighty masses that
compose the church of Jesus Christ of Latter
days, give but even a small donation, it will
make a noble pile.
	There is no doubt that it will be, that it must
be a grand success, for God's blessing must be on
an undertaking that is for comforting and for
the healing of the sick poor of his people; and
the prayers and blessings of the sick in that
house will be a mighty Holocaust not offered in
vain.
	My mind is drawn by the subject in a retro-
spective manner to the magnificient Hospital
of my native town--the old University town of
Cambfidge, England; it was a Hospital for a 
Prince.  It was originally founded and endowed
by a gentleman of the name of Addenbrooke; 
and it bears his name for[e]ver.
	Addenbrooke's Hospital, SUPPORTED by VOL-
LUNTARY CONTRIBUTION.  These words are in-
scribed in collosal letters on the upper part of the
building.  It has the appearance of a college, a
broad carriage road extends past the whole build-
ing and continues around a lovely lawn, to noble
iron gates opening on  the street; a clear
beautiful stream of water about six feet wide
and robably three deep, fed by the river Cam
ruus all round the grounds and from which the
house is supplied.  Commencement week which
is a grand time with the University, and of
couse a great influx of visitors, the Hospital is
thrown open for the inspection of the public,
and the promenade is one of the events of the
week.  The building is large and spacious, and
so perfectly clean and beautiful that until you
are shown into the wards, it seems like visiting
the mansion of a nobleman.  I have often heard
the patients speak of the kind and efficient treat-
ment they receive there, with love and gratitude.
All the regulations are stringent and methodi-
cal and are observed imperatively or there could
not be the exquisite order, every where visible.
When Prince Albert was made Chancellor of
the University and the Queen accompanied him
to Cambridge, they made a handsome present-
ation to the Hospital--as their first act.  All
notable visitors do the same.  I do not remem-
ber ever earing a call upon the public to increase
the funds.  Such noble institutions are an honor
to any country, and speak trumpet-tongued of
the spirit, and of the religion of the people
where they exist I feel proud that we, poor
people as we comparatively are, and young in
years as a church, that we too have a home for
our sick and afflicted; may our united prayers
daily ascend as a people for the support and
prosperity of the same, and may we ever bear
in mind that faith without works is dead; and
that the gold and the silver is blest only when it
is laid out directly or indirectly to benefit the
sick and the poor, and to do good in the kingdom
of God. 					HANNAH T. KING


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LETTER OF INSTRUCTION.
TO THE Y. L. M. I. A. LOGAN.
Dear SISTERS:Not being able to visit you
we take this method of communicating with
you. Our great anxiety is to do all the good we
can to aid you in conducting your Association;
that it may prove most successful and interest-
ing to all its members. To do this hold your
meetings regularly, and promptly at the hour
appointed. Whispering, talking, laughing, or
criticising, with a view to make light of the
things we hold sacred, are contrary to the good
order of well regulated meetings for the worship
of God, and should be studiously avoided.
Correct minutes of all your meetings, the
purport of what is said and done, and the names
of the members should be kept and recorded in
a suitable book. A full and complete statistical
and financial report should be furnished the
presidency of the Stake quarterly, giving as
nearly as you can the condition of your associa-
tion, number of meetings held, members in
attendance, number of essays read, number of
chapters read in Bible, Book of Mormon, and
other church works.	
 Invite all the young ladies also young married
ladies to join you—we would like all to take part
in the exercises, and endeavor to make them as
instructive and as interesting as possible.
 We would suggest that a portion of the time
in each meeting be devoted to bearing a testi-
mony of the knowledge you have of the Gospel,
and of the great blessings we enjoy as a people.
Encourage all to be chaste, virtuous, truthful
and humble, and to avoid the very appearance
of evil.
 Observe the counsel of President Taylor in
reference to dancing, and refrain from round
dancing to excess.
Encourage intellectual entertainment, read
good books, and seek unto God for wisdom to
guide you in all you do. Wo bless you in so
doing.
Your Sisters in the Gospel.
(Signed) Harriet A. Preston, Pres.
Kinnie B. Cane.
Ida Ione Cook.
Counselors.


WEST BOUNTIFUL WARD.
Our Society is not a large one in point of num-
bers, but all of the sisters feel well in the work,
and are striving to do good. We have had to
contend with disadvantages, in having no per-
manent place for our meetings, but now the


estry in our new meeting house is completed,
and in the future our meetings will be held
there. We are united in our labors, and feel to
work for the interest of the kingdom of God, and
for the improvement of each other. On the 25th
of July, the sisters of our Society met at the
home of our loved President, Mrs. Susan Grant,
on the anniversary of her 50th birthday, to show
our esteem for her, our appreciation of her labors
as the President of our Society. We presented
her on that occasion with a clock, with the
wish expressed that "even as it may keep good
time for you, may you be enabled to keep good
time with the work of God, until you shall be 
called from time into eternity." Sister Susan re
sponded by thanking the sisters for their kind
ness and congratulations. She was also the re
cipient of some beautiful presents from her own
loved ones. A poem composed for the occasion
by Lucy Darke Muir, appreciative of the friend
ship the sisters felt for Mrs. Grant, was a pleasing
 feature of the entertainment. We were joined
by the brethren at supper. After which we
spent the evening in songs, music, recitations
and speeches. We had a most enjoyable time,
one long to be remembered; and at a pretty late
hour we repaired to our homes, fully satisfied
with our associations of the day. Wishing suc
cess to your valuable paper, and for all our So
cieties, I am yours in the covenant.
			LUCY D. MUIR, Sec'y.


﻿SALEM PRIMARY.
				     -----
	The Primary Association of this place was
organized November 20th, 1879, by Sister Eliza
R. Snow Smith, with one hundred and nine
members present; Sarah D. Curtis, President;
Joanna Hanks and Jarmela Taylor, Counselors;
Joanna Hanks, Secretary; Lucy A. Taylor,
Assistant Secretary, and Marrilla Gardner,
Treasurer; in the place of Joanna Hanks, Laura
L. Jones has been since chosen to act as Coun-
selor.
	The Association was doing well when the
President moved to Arizona in the Spring of
1880, since that time our progress has been slow;
but with the good counsel of those over us we
hope to continue to teach and instruct the young
to the best of our ability.
	On June 21st, we received a visit from our
Stake President and Counselors of the Y. L. M.
I. and P. Associations.	*	*	*    The Primary
Association was then reorganized by Sister Zina
Y. Williams assisted by her Counselors, under
the direction of  Bishop C. D. Evans, with the
following officers: Laura L. Jones, President;
Jarmela Taylor and Caroline B. Lapper, Coun-
selors; Lucy A. Taylor, Secretary, and Gunnil
Hening, Treasurer.
	During the meeting a great many encourage-
ing and instructive remarks were made by the
sisters, each one having something new and in-
teresting to relate to the children.  Bishop C.
D. Evans made a few timely and interesting re-
marks; expressing his thanks to our Provo sisters
for their kind attendance, in which we all feel
to join.  Singing, Benediction.
		Laura L. Jones, President.
		Lucy A. Taylor, Secretary.


﻿SISTERS VISIT TO MORGAN.
				-----
	The R.S. Y.L.M.I.A of Morgan Stake
was held Saturday and Sunday, July 29 and 30.
Mrs. Lydia Rich presiding.  Counselor Samuel
Francis and other brethren were present, Pres.
Smith attended part of the time, also Sisters E.
R. S. Smith and E. S. Taylor, from Salt Lake
City. The reports were good from the Relief
Society; and the young ladies’ reports were very
creditable indeed.  The meetings were very


well attended and an excellent spirit prevailed
throughout. On Monday morning at 11 a. m.
the Primary Conference and Fair was held
Although the Fair had been opened first on
Saturday afternoon. There were about 300
children present. The house was beautifully
decorated for the occasion, with flowers and
evergreens, under the direction of Sister Rawle
and Brother Welch, and hung with mottoes of a
great variety, the work of the children, two of
them were by some little girls "God bless Sister
Snow, God bless our Primary," and other in-
teresting and happy reminders. There were
excellent specimens of fine needle work by girls
who were quite young; one pair of tucked
drawers made by Georgina Smith, five years
old. A quilt made and quilted by Mountain
Green Primary, very neatly done. Quilt by
South Morgan Primary. Knitted stockings,
very good stocking yarn spun by a girl 13 years
old. Master E. Crouch 14 years old had modeled
a very pretty little violin and some models of
animals of wood. Also a fine display of veg-
etables. Master J. Stewart, a pair of man's
 slippers stitched by hand. Master Joseph Welch
13 years, penmanship very neatly executed.
Lions, dogs, birds, and other things fashioned of
clay by the Geery boys of Round Valley, from
9 to 14 years old. Handsome pillow lace by
Sarah Ayers 15 years old. Then there were little
rollers, toy tables, wheelbarrows clothes-horses
by the boys were quite numerous, and indeed a
variety of wood-work. Some very neatly ex-
ecuted by Octavo Ursenbach. Then there were
pies, cakes, and bread of a great variety. A
serenade by the brass band of Morgan, was one
of the pleasing features of the visit of Sisters
Eliza R. S. Smith and Elmina S. Taylor, to
Morgan City.


______________________________________________________________________________

﻿
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
______________________________________________________________________________


OBITUARY.

DIED, July 24th 1882, in Salt Lake City, of
ovarian tumor,, Jane Todd, of West Weber
Weber Co. Sister Todd was born in South
Church, Durham, England, emigrated to Utah
Oct. 23rd 1881.  She was well known to the
Elders who were on missions in the work of
England, and always made them welcome to
her table and her home.  As a Latter-day Saint
she endeavored to live in obedience to all the
principles revealed for the guidance of the Saints.
Her health had long been delicate, and when
the nature of her disease was known, and an
operation was made for her relief determined on,
she expressed her entire submission to the will
of the Lord, whatever the result might be. On
July 20th 1882, at her own request the operation
was performed by Dr. S.B. Young, assisted by
Drs. Anderson and Ferguson, in presence of Dr.
J. M. Benedict and other physicians. She bore
the operation well, but forty-eight hours after
septicaemic symptoms manifested themselves,
and in spite of the assiduous care and skill of
her medical attendants, she died July 24th.
The next day her remains were deposited in Salt
Lake Cemetery, to await the morning of the
first resurrection. An aged mother and two
daughters mourn her departure, as well as many
friends by whom she was highly respected.
							COM.


[Column 1]
	R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
	  	   		REPORTS
			MILL CREEK WARD
	A report of the reorganization and proceed-
ings of the Relief Society of Mill Creek. Our
Association was reorganized August 14th 1877,
under the direction of Bishop Reuben Miller
and his Counselors. With the following named
officers: Mrs. Rhoda A. Miller, President
[Column 2]
Elisabeth Hill and Ann Lemon, Counselors;
Sarah A. Snedaker, Secretary; Miss Nellie
Spencer Asst. Secretary; Mrs. Araminta North,
Treasurer; Melinda H. Butterworth Asst.
Treasurer.
	Some time ago Sarah A. Snedaker, resigned
her office on account of leaving the Ward,
Nellie Spencer was chosen Secretary.  Since
that time we have received donations in cash
to the amount of $415.05; property, $128.45;
labor, $16.15.  Disbursements, to P.A. Fund,
cash $26.00; Salt Lake Temple, $21.50; Logan
Temple, $100.00; poor in cash, $160.00; and
in property $85.11; remaining in Treasury
$107.55; property, $43.34. We have stored
for Zion, wheat to the amount of 497, bu.
18 lbs.
	I am happy to report our Society to be in a
thriving condition. All seem to take a lively
interest.  Our President has not been able to at-
tend much during the last few years on account
of poor health, though afflicted and suffering
much of the time, she lies on her bed preaching
the Gospel and her good influence is felt in the
meetings, and her great and one object is the
Church and kingdom of God. We feel to be
co-workers with you in doing all we can in
regard to sustaining and upholding those that
are placed over us; for we realize that the
time is coming when we will have to see after
the things of God and not after the folly and
fashions of the world; sustain our own people
in preference to the outside element. We
must become united for where there is unity
there is strength and if every there was a time
that strength was needed it is now, to withhold
the opposing power that has been allowed to
rise up among us.
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel.
			RHODA A. MILLER, PRES.
			NELLIE SPENCER, Sec'y.

	MILL CREEK WARD, JULY 13th, 1882.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DEAR FRIEND--The Primary Association
of Mill Creek convened in Conference at the
Ward Meeting House, Friday June 23, at the
hours of ten a.m. and two p.m. respectively.
President Ellen C. Clawson presiding. There
were over two hundred children present.
After the usual opening exercises, the reports
of the four Primary Association were read.
The exercises of the day consisted of songs
recitations, dialogues, questions &c., which
were well rendered. On account of the resig-
nation of the Secretary and Treasurer of the
Primary Association of the second district,
Sisters Agnes Merrill and Mary Smuel, were
selected to fill the vacancies.  Also spoke of
beans as a good thing to store up.  The Presi-
dent of each association expressed their pleas-
ure in having the sisters meet with us, and
listening to the many good instructions they
gave the children.
	Brother Lemmon and Plant, spoke encour-
agingly to the children and expressed their
pleasure in listening to the exercises.  Al-
together the children had a time long to be
remembered.
			MARGERY ANN NORTH. Sec.
			BEAR LAKE.
	Minutes of the meetings of the 8th Semi-An-
nual Conference of the Relief Society of Bear
Lake Stake of Zion, held in St. Charles meeting 
[Column 3]
house, July 15th and 16th 1882.  Saturday
morning 10 a.m. Meeting called to order by
Pres. J. P. Lindsay.  After the usual opening
exercises, roll called for R. S Stake officers
and presidents of the branch R. S. Statistical and
Financial reports from fifteen societies were
read. Minutes of previous Conference were
read and accepted. Verbal reports by the
Presidents of the branches of Relief Society, as
follows: St Charles, Pres. Mary Jacobs, Bloom;
ington, Pres. Sarah Greenhalgh; Paris 1st
Ward, Counselor E. Collins; 2nd Ward.  Pres.
M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Pres. M. Carlson.
Liberty, Montpelier and Bennington, not re-
ported.  Georgetown, by Pres. Lewis.  Fish
Haven Pres. Frances Howell; Garden City, A.
E. Cook; Soda Springs, Meadowville, Lake
Town, Randolph Woodruff, Saleratus Creek, not
reported, and Dingle Dell, by Pres. J. Sparks.
	The societies that were represented are all
in a flourishing condition. Counselor E. Collins
expressed her gratitude to her heavenly Father
for his goodness in permitting the people to
meet in Conference, under such favorable cir-
cumstances.  Said those who neglect attend-
ing their meetings will lose the Spirit of God;
and their minds will become darkened.  We
should do nothing to cause our Father in
heaven to withdraw his Spirit from us, let us
strive to keep all the covenants we have made,
and be humble before God at all times.  The
time is nigh at hand when the judgment of the
Almighty will be poured out upon all nations,
and the Saints will have some of these to con-
tend with; therefore let us strive earnestly for
faith to overcome. Advised parents to reason
and talk with their children in kindness, by so
doing they will gain an influence over them;
teach them to pray to God, and look to Him
in sickness, and He will hear and answer their
prayers. We should attend our meetings;
seek first the kingdom of God and all needful
things will be added. Treat the teachers
kindly when they visit you, and listen atten-
tively to what they may have to say. Sister
Sarah Holmes felt to respond when called up-
on, said it is a great privilege to meet together,
and talk of the things of God, try to overcome
the timidity which naturally oppresses us
when we rise to speak, we should study, read
and improve our minds, for we cannot be
saved in ignorance. Pray and teach your
children to pray in the family circle; they
will become accustomed to it, and will respond
whenever called upon in meeting or elsewhere.
Try to overcome evil, and do that which is
right. If the sisters felt as interested as they
should do there would be more of them present
on this occasion. We ought to be alive to our
duties. There is a great work to be done, and
the time is short in which to do it. Meeting
adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing, Benedic-
tion.
	2 p. m. Y, L. M. I. Association occupied
the afternoon. Sunday 16th at 10 a. m. Meet-
ing called to order by President Lindsay, choir
sang. Prayer. Singing. Pres. Lindsay said
we were all like children, striving to learn the
best methods of attending to our business.
Was glad to see so much liberality mani-
fested by the sisters, as there had been
in regard to the building the Temple. We
should all be anxious to have that build.
ing completed. Spoke of the necessity of
assisting to emigrate the poor from the old
countries.  Said we should cherish a spirit of
humility and attend to our prayers, both
publicly and privately. We ought to attend
our meetings and get spiritual food, for we are
as much in need of that as we are of tem-
poral food. Spoke of the great responsibility
resting upon mothers, in training their children
in the fear of God; said we should encourage
them to go to their Primary meetings. Gave
some valuable instructions on the subject of
plural marriage, and said we should take a


[Column 1]
course that would gain the confidence of all
with whom we may be associated. Encouraged
the sisters to patronize our Church publications,
especially the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Spoke
of storing grain, said the judgments would
commence at the house of the Lord, and we
should prepare ourselves to meet coming
events. Asked God to bless all the organiza-
tions of the Church and kingdom of our
Lord.
	Bishop J. A. Hunt said he felt well while
listening to the instructions given by Sister
Lindsay, and knew they were directed by the
Spirit of God. We are called upon to build
temples and send of our means to assist in
gathering the poor from the nations of the
earth, we should ask ourselves the question,
what have we done in responding to the calls
made upon us from time to time? We should
be liberal in doing good with the means which
God has blessed us with. Donate freely to
help build temples, gather the poor, and be
foremost in all that is good. We are apt to
be forgetful of these little things, and our
minds need stirring up often by those ap-
pointed to instruct us. Referred to the Bible
presented by the Relief Society, to the people
of St Charles for the meeting house, returned
thanks of himself and the people to President
Jacobs and Relief Society for their kindness.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing.
Benediction, F. McCann.
	2 p. m. Sacrament administered. Afternoon
occupied by the Primary Associations. Conf
ference adjourned until the 13th and 14th, of
January 1883.
				E. PUGMIRE Sec'y
				JULIS BUDGE, Asst. Sec'y.

	Statistical and Financial Report of the Re-
lief Society of Bear Lake Stake for the six
months ending June 30th 1882. Statistical,
teachers, 126; members, 451; total officers and
members, 575; meetings held, 129; average at-
tendance, 217; church papers taken, 164; WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, 34. Statistical, on hand
at date of last report, cash, $66.62 cts., pro-
perty 628.16; wheat, 635 bus. 22 lbs; Receipts,
cash, $220.23; property, 161.28. Disburse-
ments to needy, cash, 11.70; property, 13.76;
emigration, 47.25; temple cash, 131.00; pro-
perty, 25.90; home industries, cash, 14,87;
property, 27.55; books, cash, $10.00; mis-
sionary, 1.00; building property, 10.24. On
hand, cash, $145.75; property, 875.70; wheat,
635, bu. 22 lb.

	Semi-Annual Conference of Primary As
sociations of Bear Lake Stake, held at St
Charles, July 16th, 1882. Counselor Elizabeth
Pugmire presiding. After the usual opening
exercises, the minutes of the previous Confer-
ence were read and approved, after which the
financial report was read as follows. cash
recieved, $41.20; property, 9.45; total, 50.65;
Disbursements, cash, $21.44; temple, 14.80;
charitable purposes, 11,60; on hand cash 10.04;
property, 9,45; total, $67.33.
	Verbal reports were given by the several
presidents of the Associations. Coun. E. Pug-
mire addressed the congregation, and was fol-
lowed by Bishop Henry Lewis, Brother George
Osmond, Sister Holmes, Brother Thomas Mc-
Cann and Pres. J. Lindsay, all expressing a
pleasure in witnessing the advancement of the
children, and the diligence with which the
officers had labored. A good spirit prevailed
during Conference which was adjourned until
January 16th 1883.
				ANNIE LAKER, Pres.
				SUSANNA BOOTH, Sec'y

PANGUITCH.

	The eighth Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of the Panguitch Stake of Zion
was held at Panguitch, Friday June 16th 1882.

[Column 2]
Prest. Barbara Myers presiding. Present on
the occasion were Apostles F. M. Lyman, John
Henry Smith, Stake Prest. James Henrie M.
M. Steele, J. W. Crosby Jr. of the presidency
of the stake, also Bishops and other visiting
brethren from different wards. After the
usual opening exercises Prest. Myers made a
few appropriate remarks and invoked the
blessing of the Lord upon the Conference.
The minutes of the last Conference were read
and approved. Local and general authorities
were sustained. Verbal reports of each Re-
lief Society in the stake were given, showing
the Societies in good condition.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman said he was much
pleased with the way the business was done,
said there was a great deal of missionary labor
 for the sisters, we need some assistance and en-
couragement in all that we do. The mothers
as a rule have the care of the children in their
early training, and great responsibility rests
upon the mother; they have the training of
their faith, should weigh well what they say,
should live so the spirit of the Lord would be
our constant companion, Prest. Myers made
some very appropriate remarks. Conference
adjourned for three months. Singing, Bene-
diction by J. W. Crosby Jr.
				SARAH P. CROSBY, Secy.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY FAIR.

Notes taken of the Primary Fair, held in
the 1st. Ward July 20, 1882.
According to arrangements the children of
the Primary Association with a few invited
guests, met at the school house on Thursday
July 20th, at 10 o’clock; after singing by the
children, Elder A. M. Musser opened the
fair with prayer,singing again by the children,
when Brother Musser made a few remarks;
after which he declared the fair opened.
The fair consisted of over one hundred art-
icles, all made by the members of the Associa-
tion; most of them are very young and deserve
great credit for the interest taken ns well as
the varieties of work.
The little boys, I think, deserve special
mention, their miniature wheel-barrows and
garden tools, and other articles, all showing
industry worthy of so good a cause. The girls
did their part in flowers, and different kinds of
fancy work, not forgetting the more substantial
hand sewing and cookery. The fair remained
open until Friday noon, when a sumptuous re-
past having been prepared, the members of the.
Primary Association, under the supervision of
Sister Mary W. Musser, with a few invited
guests, sat down to the feast. The children
present numbered about 60, all healthy and
happy.
After dinner was over, the people began to
gather together for meeting, which opened at
2 o’clock. After the usual exercises of singing
and prayer, we had a short programme by the
children consisting of songs, dialogues, and
recitations. Sister Ellen Clawson addressed
the audience, expressed herself as being well
pleased with every thing, encouraging the
President in her endeavors to interest the child-
ren, as well as the great pains and trouble she
had taken in decorating and making things so
attractive; exhorted the mothers to come to
meeting. and take more interest in having the
children attend, that they may continue in the
good path and increase in good works, made
other excellent remarks. Sister B. W. Smith
spoke of the improvement made by the child-
ren.
In the meantime a little surprise had been
arranged in the shape of a beautiful ring. for
our worthy President, Sister Alice M. B.
Fletcher. Sister Annie Musser came to the
stand and made an approprate little speech in
behalf of the mothers of the children. The
ring was then given to her by a little girl, very
much to the surprise of the lady who stepped
forward and expressed her gratitude, with the
kind appreciation of those interested, and for
the little token of remembrance which showed 
she had not labored in vain. Her feelings
would not allow her to say much.
After some further arrangements the ex-
ercises were adjourned till evening and meet-
ing was dismissed.
At the appointed time for the party, the
house was filled with the happiest band of
children it has been our lot to witness, some of
their parents were present also, most of the
time was spent in dancing. But the main fea-
ture of the evening was a grand march by the
children around a car in the center of the
room, decorated with the stars and stripes, and
the following mottoes, ‘Liberty, E Pluribua
Unum, and In God we trust,” in gilt letters.
The car contained five little children represent-
ing a miniature goddess of liberty, maids of
honor, and pages, each holding the flag of our
country in their hands. The children were
all dressed in uniform, the girls with blue
sashes, and the boys with red, the latter also
wore paper caps trimmed with gilt and bright
colors, making quite an imposing appearence.
Dancing was kept up until 11 o’clock, the
children expressed themselves as never having
so good a time before, which no one doubted,
that was present. Thus ended the happy two
days.	A. M. B. FLETCHER, Pres.
		M. W. MUSSER, Coun.
		JULIA YOUNG, Sec’y.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following is a short sketch of the rise of
the young gentlemen and ladies Relief Society
in Nauvoo which was printed in the Times and
Seasons in the year 1843, and the reading of it
will doubtless bring to many a friend of yore
pleasing reminiscences of the days when we
were young.
	"One evening in the latter part of January
last, a few young people having assembled at
the house of Elder H. C. Kimball; the follies
of youth and the temptations to which they
are exposed generally, but more especially in
our city, became the topic of conversation.
The company were lamenting the loose style
of the morals, the frivolous manner in which
they spent their time, and their too frequent
attendance at balls, parties, etc., when Elder
Kimball proposed that an appointment should
be given out expressly for the young ladies
and gentlemen, and he would give them such
instruction and advice as the spirit of the Lord
might suggest to him; which, if followed,
would doubtless lead to a reformation in the
conduct of his young friends. This proposition
was received with delight, and acted upon with
alacrity.
	"An appointment having been given out, a
number of the young people assembled at the
house of Elder Billings, when Elder Kimball
addressed them for some time upon the duties
of children to their parents, to society and to
their God; exhorting them to lay aside their
vanity, lightmindedness, pride and frivolity;
and endeavor to show themselves worthy of
the religion which they had embraced; advis-
ing them to shun evil company, (for by an in-
dividual's company is his character estimated,)
and to be obedient to their parents, for this
was the first commandment with promise.
	"This address was so well received by the
assembled congregation that it was voted, al-
most by acclamation, that a similar meeting
should be held on the ensuing week. An ap-
pointment was accordingly circulated for the
next Wednesday evening at Brother Lorin


Farr’s schoolhouse, as Elder Billings house
was too small to contain the assemblage.
"On the appointed evening, the room was
filled to overflowing. Elder Kimball addressed
the crowded, but silent and attentive con-
gregation, for the space of an hour; in that
plain, simple an affectionate manner which
goes directly to the heart, and which is so
natural to the speaker. He first explained the
duty which  youth owed to themselves, and
the manner in which they might obtain honor
and respect, viz; by applying their minds with
determined perseverence to all the studies com-
monly deemed necessary to fit them for active
life and polish them for society, and not only
to these but also to the study of Scripture,
the book of Mormon, the book of Doctrine
and Covenants, and the most theological work
of their most talented elders. By pursuing
this course, said he, "you will be enabled to
give a reason for the hope and the joy which
exists within you, you will always be prepared
to explain the doctrine in which you believe,
you will ever be ready to prove and defend
your religion, you will be well received in
company and will be esteemed by all wise and
good men. We who have borne the heat and
burden of the day will soon go the way of all
the earth and give place to you my young
brethren. You will soon come upon the stage
of action, and be called upon to carry the
glad tidings of the new and everlasting coven-
ant to the remotest parts of the earth, and
proclaim the news of gospel grace to a lost and
ruined world. Strive, therefore, to show your-
selves worthy of your calling: be dutiful,be hum-
ble, be faithful, be obedient and acquit your-
selves like men, and men of God." He con-
cluded his interesting discourse with a general
exhortation to keep all of the commandments
of God, to associate with none but the wise
and virtuous, and lastly to keep themselves
pure and unspotted from the world. This dis-
course, like the preceeding one, was received
with delight by all the hearers.
"Brother Farr then made a few short but
pertinent remarks, when a vote was taken
whether the meetings should be continued,
which ffa carried unanimously in the affirm-
ative.
"This room being also too small, the next ap-
pointment was made for the meeting to be
held at the house of President Joseph Smith.
"Notwithstanding the inclemency of the
weather the house was completely filled at an
early hour, and numbers were obliged to de-
part for want of room. The assembly were,
as usual, addressed by Elder Kimball, who, in
a solemn and impressive manner, warned the
young people against the evils to which they
were exposed, and the temptations to which
they were peculiarly subject; not only from
their youth and inexperience, but also from
their sanguine and excitable temperament.
He exhorted them to be guided by the voice of
reason and judgment, and pay strict attention
to the advice and commands of their parents,
who being of maturer years and a longer ex-
perience, are much better calculated to guide
the pathway of youth, than they themselves.
He warned them against giving heed to their
passions, which, he said, would lead them into
many snares and difficulties. He advised
them never to be too forward in company, for
"a wise head keeps a silent tongue;" to be con-
descending to their inferiors, kind and concili-
ating to their equals, and deferential, not
slavish, to their superiors. He warned them
against frequenting balls and such places,
which, he said, would generally lead to many
evil practices, and draw away the mind from
more innocent amusements,and from their duty
to their parents. He said "he had not now,
nor ever had, any objections to having young
people meet together in social parties, or in-
dulging in any rational amusement; but, he
strongly opposed carrying it to extremes, as it
generally was." He concluded this address
by exhorting them to give heed to his advice,
for it was according to holy scriptures,and "to
live by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God." The house being still too
small, the next was appointed at the lodge-
room over President Smith's store. At the
appointed time this large room was filled to
overflowing, and the great numbers which
assembled testified to the increasing interest in
which these meeting were held by theyouth
of the city. Again Elder Kimball addressed
them and gave them such advice as would be
useful to them at the present time and also in
their future lives.
To be Continued.


48 WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LADY STUDENTS AT CAMBRIDGE.

	It may be of interest to our readers to know
something of the life that is led by the students
at Girton. The plan is to have all the meals
in the dining hall; breakfast is supplied from
8 to 9, lunch from 12 to 3, and dinner, which
is, of course, a general meal, at 6. Tea is sent
to the students' own rooms; about 4 o'clock the
cheerful rattling of tea-cups is heard in the
corridors, and announces the arrival of the
servant with a large trayful of cups. These
trays are taken round to all the students' rooms
and also to the lecture-rooms, where the com-
bination of tea and study forms a peculiar
feature of the Girton lectures. Four o'clock
is an important hour at Girton, and one that
is not willingly missed by students. Those who
are absent from their rooms for a short time
generally leave a notice on their doors asking
for a cup of tea; and another notice that may
frequently be observed when walking along
the corridors is, "Please see to my fire." "En
gaged" is also put up by busy students who
are anxious not to be disturbed. The morning
hours are, of course, the best working hours;
from 9 to 1 is the usual working time; 1 being
the favorite hour for lunch. Nearly all the
lectures at Girton are given in the afternoon,
and the hours between 2 and 6 are generally
divided between lectures and tennis or walks.
But most students have some completely free
afternoons, which thay can devote to expedi-
tions into Cambridge or long country walks.
Lectures in Cambridge are given in the morn-
ing, and to these the natural science and his-
tory students go. Most mathematical and
classical lectures are given at Girton. None
o'clock in the evening is the time which public
opinion fixes as the right moment to leave off
work. Of course this is not always possible,
but as a rule it is the sociable hour and the
time for tea parties. Trays with materials
for tea, coffee or cocoa are sent round to the
rooms, and as every one has a kettle of her
own, tea can be taken at any time, and this is
generally a social meal, which two or three
friends, partake of together, enjoying the
luxury of leisure after work. Once a week a
practice is held by members of the choral so-
ciety, who usually give a concert at the end of
the term, to whlch friends are invited. There
is also a debating society, and an institution
peculiar to Girton, a ladies' fire brigade,
"womanned" by the students, in Cambridge
parlance. This was first thought of when
some small fire engines were presented to the
college; and some of the students, after receiv-
ing due and formal instruction, taught the
many details of pumping, passing buckets,
carrying in mysterious knots, etc., to the rest.
The institution continues to flourish and to
hold weekly practices.—London Society.


[Column 1]
	"To discriminate against woman is a denial
of right."—Governor John D. Long, of
Massachusetts.

[Column 2]
Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT, M.D.
OFFICE IN GODBE, PITTS & CO'S BUILDING.
Office hours from 10 a. m. to 6 p.m. Residence, Twelfth
Ward, 2d South Street, bet. 5th and 6th East.
Special Attention given to Diseases of the
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT,
OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRUICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obein the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office on Main Street, over Hardy Bros., Store.

Special Study has been given to Surgery, Diseases
of Women, and Diseases of the
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds, 		Brushes, Etc., Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

