VOL. 11.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1883.	No. 24.


﻿LUCY SMITH.

The Prophets mother! On her breast
	The sacred infant slept,
From infancy to youth, her love
	Its faithful watchcare kept;
And from his lips—a gentle child's—
	Whose easliest words she taught,
Her ear and heart with joy received
	The wondrous truths he brought.

Unfaltering, when men amazed
	Their chosen master proved,
Through persecutions, aye, till death—
	Her love, her faith, unmoved.
Whose rapture like the mothers own
	That through all suff'ring smiled!
Whose woe like hers? who would have died
	For him, her Prophet child!

Prophet and Patriarch, her sons.
	Before the mother's eyes
Did visions of the gauntlet path
	And martyrdom, arise?
Or, answering prophetic fears,
	Did heaven in mercy bend
With strength and balm, and promise sure
	To lead her to the end?

Of women, it was she who first
	Received baptismal birth,
When from the throne of God, his work
	Was brought again to earth—
The life that here was one with them,
	Linked still with theirs will shine
With ransomed souls eternally,
	In courts and spheres divine.

Within the heart of ev'ry Saint
	Forever be endeared
The tender face, the noble life,
	The mother heaven revered.
Long hath she slept in silence sweet,
	And now her rest is won,
Awake her name, that younger Saints
	Forget not this dear one.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
April 12th 1883.


[Column 1]

OUR FRANCHISE.

	If the Legislature of the Territory of Utah
had the right to grant the franchise to the
women of the Territory, (and they having vio-
lated no law of the Constitution of the United
States) by what right, political or otherwise,
shall Senator Edmunds, or any other man, say
it shall be taken away? He says it is because
they vote as a unit, "because they vote as they
are compelled by their husbands." I ask, why
he should complain, if we, as the "poor women"
of Utah, choose to vote for men whom we
have proven to be men of God; because 
vote for men who have proven themselves to
be honorable and just, who conceive it to be
their duty to maintain the principles of true
liberty, to promote the welfare of their con-
stituents; and because we claim the right of
Americans, to vote according to our own con-
victions of right; we claim the right to vote
for freedom of thought and speech, and to wor-
ship God according to those convictions; we, as
a community, claim the right to vote for men
that are God-fearing, that will perpetuate the 
principles of virtue, of holiness, of honesty, of
integrity, and good will to all men, that will 
implant in the minds of the community at
large that it is by unity we stand; it is by
unity that any enterprise (whether political,
social, or moral) will become a success. The

[Column 2]

whole world is striving for a unity of action;
the Democrats are striving with all their might
for a unity of action in the interests
of their party; and who shall say, if they suc-
ceed they shall be dispossessed of the right of
the ballot? The Republicans are exerting all
their powers for the same object; and shall
they also lose their right to vote, if by chance
they should become united? Every society
seeks the unity of its members as a necessity
to its success; and shall all such be debarred
the rights of freedom, or is it because we are
women, the weaker sex, that man, proud
man, exalted to a little brief authority, seeks to
deprive us, the "poor women" of Utah, of our
rights? Because what, forsooth? Because we
are one with our husbands in the maintenance
of the principles of freedom, do they think
that we, as the honorable wives of honorable
men, having had the franchise for so long a
time, (with a secret ballot) would not, ere this,
have thrown off the yoke if we were in bond-
age? If (as Senator Edmunds says) we were
living under the influence of a Mormon hier-
archy, such as he represents, we could at any
moment have thrown it off and voted against
our brethren. How did our commissioners
find out the minds of the "women of Utah?"
How could they judge of the sentiments of the
people, when they never traveled through the
Territory to find out the true feelings of the
people? They, like others, have been satisfied
to draw their own conclusions from a few of 
our enemies, or those who have been excluded
from good society, hence they are not capable of
judging.
	Senator Edmunds is as much in the dark as
are our commissioners, with regard to the
feelings, impulses, and sentiments of the women
of Utah, and I can say that I have enjoyed
the right of franchise for twelve years, and
have never failed to exercise that privilege,
(until it was taken from me) and I was not at
any time compelled to vote, only as I felt, in
my own mind, was right. Living under the
law of the Lord, it was to my interest to work
for the good of the people that were living
under the divine inspiration of God, our hea-
venly Father. The Almighty has condescend-
ed to reveal His Gospel to men on the earth in
this the last dispensation, and has instructed
His servants in this our day in all the ordi-
nances that He did the Ancient Saints; and
among other principles, He has revealed the
holy order of marriage, or a plurality of
wives, and I am proud to say that the Lord
has blessed me with the privilege of living in
the same. I honor all who practically honor
this principle, as it is only those who love this
law that will be found among the noble and 
exalted, and will reign forever a kingdom of
kings unto the Most High, as we find by read-
ing the Scriptures, that holy men of God whom
our Father loved, were men who lived in the
practice of plural marriage or were descendants
from those who lived in it. We find that
Abraham, Jacob, Solomon and David were
all favored of God, and were not reproved for
their many wives, but the Lord sanctioned the
practice, and blessed those who lived in that
holy order. By reading in Genesis xvi and
xvii Chapters we find how the angels of the
Lord appeared unto Hagar and blessed her,
and promised that she should become the
mother of a "great nation," also after that,
Abraham married Keturah, Genesis xxv
Chapter and 11 verse, yet he was the "father

[Column 3]

of the faithful and the friend of God." Also
the Lord blessed Jacob with his own voice,
and he had more wives than one. And Leah,
Rachel, Bilhah and Zilpha became the
mothers of the Twelve tribes of Israel.
	And was not David a man after God's own
heart? Jehoida, the Lord's High Priest, took
two wives for Joab, the king of Judah, who
redeemed Israel from idolatry. (Chronicles
xxiv, 3.) Solomon had many wives, and was
blessed of the Lord, until he ran after idola-
trous women; also Hosea was commanded to
take a second wife, and in fact, if we study
the Bible, we will find abundant evidence, to
convince a candid mind, that God not only
sanctioned the institution of the Patriarchal
order, but that he commanded his servants in
many instances to obey that law; therefore I
say as before, that it is an honor to belong to
such an institution, and how much higher is
that pure principle than such associations as
those existing in the world, where a man only
acknowledges one wife, but where many,
women are prostituted by the lusts of men who
look with horror over the snow-capped moun-
tains to the happy women of Utah and pity
their forlorn condition, while all around them,
on every street, in every corner you find hordes
of women who were once blooming in inno-
cence, the fairest of their sex, sunken to the
lowest grade of degradation. While the hus-
band (whom the confiding young wife has
trusted her life, her happiness and her all, in
his keeping) is secretly decoying to his treach-
erous heart some unsuspecting one, whom he
can, after having gratified his unhallowed pas-
sion, send forth into a cold-hearted world, un-
protected by the name of wife, or by the friend
who had betrayed her, a prey to the sting of
remorse and shame, to die, perchance, un-
cared for. When men think that these things
will escape the eye of an Almighty God they
are mistaken. I tell you the judgments of the
Almighty will fall on the nations of the earth
and sweep such wickedness from the face there-
of; we say to all who pity the women of Utah,
look at home, and cleanse the nation from the
stench of corruption that is sapping away the
foundations of virtue and happiness from the
land; and close up the places and dens of in-
famy in your own states, and then you can
look to your neighbors. The Lord, ere long,
will come out of his hiding and destroy those
that have rejected the Prophets and persecuted
his Saints, and those that have shed the blood
of the innocent and sought to deprive them of
their rights, they will be as stubble in the
time of God's judgment. We put our trust in
the Lord, knowing that we will be judged ac-
cording to our works (whether they be good or
bad) with a righteous judgment, and inasmuch
as we live faithful to our works (whether they be good or
bad) with a righteous judgment, and inasmuch
as we live faithful to our integrity and our
God, we fear not to trust ourselves in His
hands.
	 The wicked and ungodly we leave in the
hands of our Heavenly Father, knowing that
He will deal with them according to their de-
merits.	SARAH A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., April 9th, 1883.


It is much safer to obey than to govern.
Who is so wise that he can fully know all
things? Be not, therefore, to confident in
thine own opinion, but be willing to bear the
judgment of others.—Thomas d Kempis.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SCENES IN NAUVOO, AND INCIDENTS
	FROM H. C. KIMBALL'S JOURNAL.

		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The first meeting held in the Temple at
Nauvoo was on Sunday, October 5th, 1845.
I was present with the choir on this occasion,
also at Conference the three following days.
The choir and orchestra occupied a gallery at
the west end, opposite the stand.  The follow-
ing items I take from my father's journal:
"Meeting opened at five minutes to eleven by
President B. Young as a form of dedication
prayer.  Great joy and gratitude was felt by
the Saints to realize this blessing which they
had so long looked for.  There were five thou-
sand persons seated comfortable. Elder John
Taylor preached respecting our moving to the
west.  Some few companies were called out
preparatory to organizing for removal.  In the
afternoon the four companies were addressed
by President B. Young."
	"Monday, 6th.  Our General Conference as-
sembled in the Temple for the first time; much
business was done.  The Twelve met in coun-
cil and for prayer, morning and evening, to
our Heavenly Father to stay the wrath of our
enemies, and to overthrow all their designs,
which He has done thus far, and we thank His
holy name.  Tuesday, 7th.  In the morning
the Twelve met for prayer in the usual place.
Conference met in the Temple.  I preached in
the morning, together with Amasa Lyman.
In the afternoon, when the Conference was as-
sembled, Major Warren came in with his posse
of troops and surrounded our cannon, suppos-
ing it was a mob, President Young dismissed
the conference and told the brethren to go
home, and let every man be prepared.  War-
ren commenced to search one or two houses--
they then went back to Carthage."
	"Wednesday, 8th.		*	*	Conference
met--much business was transacted.  Presi-
dent Young spoke upon the thieves who were
in the place, and Mother Smith spoke at some
length.	* 	*	This day was the close of
the conference.  All things went off in union,
not a dissenting voice in the congregation, and
a perfect union exhibited by the Saints to re-
move from the country the coming Spring.
All these things transpire in answer to the
prayers of the Saints, who meet together con-
stantly after the Holy Order; and the glory be
to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy
Ghost for His blessings upon Israel."
	"Thursday, 9th.  In the morning I, with
my brethren, met for prayer and then met in
the Temple to counsel them on going east, etc.,
to sell property, and much business present-
ed.	*	*	*	In the evening the
usual company met for prayer; the following
things were prayed for--the prosperity of the
Elders in the United States, and the brethren
on the South Pacific Islands, and the brethren
in the West among the red men of the forest,
that our enemies may be frustrated in all
their designs, that confusion and disorder and
treachery might enter into their ranks, that
the sick of His people might be healed, union
preserved, and that all of His servants may be
saved from their enemies, that they should
not have power to serve their vexatious writs,
that the Temple and font may be finished, and
dedicated and consecrated to the most high
God, that His servants and handmaids may
obtain their ordinances and sealing powers of
the Priesthood, and the way be opened for His
Saints to go to the west, etc." 
	On the 12th he mentions twenty-five cap-
tains being appointed, and all the companies
to number nine called out.  Next day he with
President Young, met for counsel with two
Lamanites, Joseph Herring (Shawnna tribe)
and Lewis Dana (Oneida nation).  He says,
"We ordained Joseph Herring an Elder, Lewis
Dana having previously been ordained.  We
had much conversation with them and received
much counsel from them as to the traits of
character of the red men.  	*	*	J. B. 
Backenstoss and several others came to my
house in the evening, and several tunes were
played on the piano by Sister Pitchforth."  I
remember this incident, and the lady whom
my father mentions was my music teacher--
her name I could hardly remember and was
pleased to see it mentioned in his journal.
	She had a little, delicate frame and was in-
experienced, like thousands who have emigra-
ted from the cities of the old country to the
western frontiers, more especially those who
have cast their lot with the Latter-day Saints.
But she, though in poverty with her children,
was never sad-- her countenance always wore
the same pleasant smile.  She was happy in
the knowledge that she had gained a key that
would open the door to the true riches that can
not perish.  She early sank under the many
hardships and privations which befell the lat-
ter-day pilgrims while journeying westward,
but members of her family are still living in
Utah who honorably represent her name. I
also remember the following incidents, copied
from father's journal: 
	"Tuesday, 14th.  Mary Gont was sealed to
Lewis Dana, a Lamanite, by B. Young, being
the first Lamanite having a wife sealed to him
under the New and Everlasting Covenant for
time and all eternity, she being a white
woman."  Her husband was civilized, and had
been an Elder about four years--he being the
first Lamanite ever ordained an Elder in the
Church of Latter-day Saints.
	Wednesday morning, the 15th, father  re-
ceived a letter from Sheriff Backenstos, re-
questing  an interview.  "At two o'clock," he
says, "I met J. B. Backenstos at his room in
the Mansion.	*	*	He then and there
gave me his mind and views concerning the
religion we professed to believe, he firmly and
positively believed it to be the truth, and he in-
tended to embrace it by going forward in the
waters of baptism soon, and he would go with
us the whole extent to the expense of his life
and all he possessed."
	"Saturday, 18th.  	*	*	Much rumor of
war. 	*	*	Elder Hyde returned home
from the east and brought five thousand yards
of topsail Russia duck."  This was for tents
and wagon covers.  "Sunday, 19th," he wrote,
"Met at the Temple in company with the
Twelve.  Elder Hyde preached.  At four in
the afternoon and Twelve met their company
to organize them in the following manner by
placing captains over fifties and tens, and each
captain organizing his own company." On the
20th, he says, "General Arlington Bennett
came into our city--had an interview with
him at Dr. Richard's.  	*	*	I solicited
him to meet us at John Taylor's in council this
evening.  He met according to agreement--
continued with us till ten o'clock."  Next day
a posse of the Governor's troops came into the
city, but did not interfere with any one and
soon left.
	He wrote on the 23rd, "The Governor's posse,
consisting of thirteen men, came into the city
to take Bogus Press, and searched Brother
Woodworth's house (one of our near neigh-
bors) and then left the city, 	*	*	On the
24th one of the Governor's troops was shot by
Brother Bigelow in self-defense (not mortally).
Report says that General Arlington Bennett
was hissed out of Carthage yesterday.	*	*
At this time matters look dark--our enemies
are much enraged.	*	*	*	Wherein
we have asked the Lord He has answered us in
every instance; I therefore feel to praise and
exalt His holy name for the blessings and fa-
fors to His people Israel."
[Column 3]
	On the 28th, he says, "J. B. Backenstos
came to Brother Goddard's (as we were then
concealed) saying to us that Major Warren
wished to have an interview with the Twelve.
Accordingly at three p.m. Brother Brigham
and myself met the following at Dr. Richard's:
Major Warren, Captains Turner and Morgan.
During our interview John Taylor, George A.
Smith, A. Lyman, also J. Backenstos were
present.  Major Warren wished to know
whether we were willing that writs should be
served on the citizens of this place.  President
Young told him we were perfectly willing so
far as he and brethren were concerned, as he
and his brethren did not hold any official office
in the city or county.  That we only governed
the matters pertaining to the Church.  This
seemed to calm his apprehensions.  They left
us at five p.m. with pretty good feelings."
	Father wrote, "Wednesday, 29th.  We spent
part of the day at Brother Rockwood's.  Many
of the brethren came in for counsel. Joseph
Herring (the Lamanite) was one, about going
home west to his tribe.	*	*	This night
I returned home as the posse had left with
their writs.  Thursday, 30th.  Bishop Miller
and Brother Burdell returned from Spring-
field, whither they had been to visit the Gov-
ernor."
	Saturday, November 2nd, he speaks of El-
der Hyde preaching upon the subject of trust-
ing in God.  "Elder Taylor followed and gave
an excellent exhortation much in the same
strain.  I also spoke and counselled the Saints
to pay their tithing, etc.  In the afternoon I
met the first emigration company and came
to a partial organization, and gave much coun-
sel and instruction on our intended removal."
	At this time President Young was sick and
unable to attend to business.  On the 7th
father mentions a large raft of pine lumber,
which came down the river, and he says, "On
the 10th Brigham Young, Bishop Miller and
I borrowed six hundred dollars and paid
Brother Russell, as he had bought one hundred
thousand feet of pine boards.  This will finish
the Temple."
	On the 11th he says, "The young people had
a dance at the Mansion--J. B. Backenstos
and myself took supper with them by the re-
quest of Benjamin Johnson--from thence I re-
turned home."
	I remember this occasion as a very pleasant
one, and the mention of it reminds me of an in-
cident connected with it.  My father was quite
a favorite with the sheriff, and I being there
with him he requested the privilege of taking
me to supper.  He also invited me to dance,
and being the guest he was invited to lead out
at the opening of the ball.  During the dance,
at each rest of "the light fantastic toe,"  I was
entertained with the rehearsal of what he
seemed to view as a wonderful night dream, or
vision he called it, and gave me his interpreta-
tion of it.  But I was rather young and gay,
and could scarcely appreciate or view it in the
same light  that he did--especially as coming
from that quarter; besides, being in the midst
of delightful quadrille, that with the thril-
ling music of the band was far more to my
taste, and much more exhilarating, than was
the subject upon which he seemed determined
to dwell.  Sheriff Backenstoss was a friend
(no doubt) raised up by the Lord to favor His
people at that critical time.  His resolutions,
which he expressed to my father, even if they
were made in good faith, were spoken too
loudly, as he did not hold long to them.  I be-
lieve that Satan is ever present to take down
notes, and he soon learns our weak points; we
should therefore put a double guard upon our
lips, and when we vow we ought to say, The
Lord helping me, or as said an ancient Apos-
tle, "If the Lord wills we should live, and do
this or that."
			To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 187


LOVE'S BIRTH.

It had lain for years, like a frozen thing,
	In my soul's remotest deep. 
I drifted through life with a careless heart,
	Nor dreamed of the force alseep.

*		*		*		*		*		*

The storm was flown, and o'er the scene
	The moon's soft impulse glowed,
Casting o'er beach and shadowed hill
	It's silvered wreath untold.

The grassy path was smooth, was fair,
	That led us to the strands—
With restless arms the sea leaped up
	And smote the quivering sands.

A gentle touch—my wrap was laid
	Around me soft and warm;
And standing thus, your arm was staid
	Around my quiet form.

Oh! something stirs within my heart—
	Full, palpitating life.
Swift quickening throbs my every pulse
	With expectation rife.

You raise my lips to yours—my soul
	With passion throes is torn—
But with the lingering caress
	Behold! my love is born.


BLESSINGS.

A LOVING TRIBUTE FROM LULA.

Blessings! Blessings! This we repeat:
From thy silver crowned head to the soles of thy feet,
On thy head, which hath weathered the storms and the
	heat,
With the prophets of God in their exiled retreat;
Thine eyes which have turned not from hardships and
	toil,
To view thy lost treasures, thine enemies spoil,
Thy cheeks which have glowed with the spirit of light,
From Him in whose blood are thy garments washed
	white:
Thy lips which have valiantly heralded truth,
In the scorners proud face, since the days of thy youth;
Thy neck, which hath bent not in servitude mean,
To the foes of thy God, howe'er threat'ning the scene.
Thy arms and thy shoulders, thy lungs and thy heart,
Thy body entire—yes, every part,
Be blessed and renewed, and strengthened to-day,
And with thee continue these blessings alway,
To bless thee, our sister, our mother, and friend,
Our voices and hearts here in harmony blend;
And thousands besides, whom thy goodness hath blest,
Will never forget thee, and sure is thy rest.
'Mong the jewels which Jesus will "make up" and claim
We shall see thy dear face, we shall read thy loved
	name.
Now, for all that thy soul can desire we pray,
With "many bright happy returns of the day,"
	September 7th, 1882.


ADDRESSED. 

TO, SISTER BATHESHEBA W. SMITH ON HER
BIRTHDAY, MAY 3RD, 1883.

	Blessings be upon thee my sister, on this
the return of thy natal day; may blessings of
every kind be multiplied upon thee from this
day henceforth. Blessings be upon thee for
thy labors of love, adminstered to thy sisters in
holy places! Blessings be upon thee for thy
faithfulness in all the walks of life; like every
true Saint of God thou hast had sore trials,
but hast borne them meekly, and with calm en-
durance; thy spirit has bent as the willow to the
stream, and the spirit of our God has brooded
over thee, and He has sent His angels to watch
over thee, and to comfort and sustain thee;
thou hast realized their presence by the intui-
tion of thine own spirit, and the whisperings of
the Eternal! Thou hast been blest with the
friendship of the servants of God, and of thy
sisters, handmaids of the same. And to-day
we see thee standing like one of the handmaids


of old—erect, healthy, and with a countenance
bright and smiling with the reflex of the spirit
of thy Father—God! Long dear Sister may
you so stand, to bless and instruct your sisters
by your sweet words and, more—by your exam-
ple. 
	I need not say God bless you, for you bear
the impress of  His blessing on your person
and your habitation. Till you pass behind  the 
veil may you retain the same, is the prayer of 
your Sister,
	HANNAH T. KING.
	May 3rd, 1883, 17th Ward.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S VOICE.

	As a Relief Society, the sisters here are try-
ing to do as well as they can in our scattered
condition.   We meet once a month and are
united in doing good, so far as it lies in our
power.   We have a Primary Association, and
the children take an interest in coming together.
They meet once in two weeks. We endeavor to
teach them the principles of the Gospel; I have
had a great experience in this Church. I heard
the Gospel in the State of New York, when ten
years old, the first sermon that was preached my
father and mother believed, and went forward
into the waters of baptism, January, 1832. The
next month, February, myself and sister were
baptized.   We gathered with the Saints in
Kirtland, and shared in their persecutions.   I
had the privilege of hearing the Prophet
Joseph speak almost every Sunday.  I was pres-
ent at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple,
when the power of God was manifested to such
a great degree.   The hymn composed for the
occasion "The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing,"  was indeed most appropriate, and I
thought I never heard anything so impressive,
and indeed that hymn always carries with it a
wonderful power whenever it is sung in the
congregation of the Saints. In the Temple the
gifet of toungs and prophecy was very power-
fully poured out.  It was a time of rejoicing.
I knew Brother Joseph to be a prophet of God,
when I think upon the trying scenes he had to
pass through in Ohio, Missouri and Nauvoo,
and at last to be slain by the hands of his ene-
mies, it causes many reflections and brings
back vividly many memories of the past.   I
was at the meeting when Sidney Rigdon
called on the Saints to choose a guardian, and
announced himself as the man for the position,
and when Brigham Young came on to the
stand and spoke, I thought the Prophet Joseph
had been resurrected, and I arose to my feet
and looked, I could scarcely believe it was
Brigham Young, he looked and spoke so much
like Joseph Smith.  I had no doubt then
who was the right man to lead the Church;
I knew Brigham Young was the right man.
I feel thankful the Lord has not forsaken or
forgotton his people at the present time, but
has given revelation through President Taylor.
If we will humble ourselves and honor the
preisthood, God will honor us, and we will
receive blessings at his hands. I know the Lord
will bless us if we keep his commandments.
	My dear sisters, if there are any of you
that do not believe in plural marriage, go with
an honest heart, and ask the Lord to make
known to you his mind and will concerning
this principle. I was once as unbelieving as any
one, and sometimes spoke against the principle,
though I knew the Prophet Joseph had more
wives.   I said if I could know it was a true
principle I would not speak evil of it, and I
do know my own heart condemned me when-
ever I spoke against it.  The next September,
after the Prophet Joseph was killed, I was very
sick, and I asked the Lord one night to show
me if I should live or die.  That night a 
heavenly messenger came and talked with me,
and this holy being told me I should live, and if I

[Column 2]
had faith enough I should be well in the morn-
ing.  This messenger informed me that the prin-
ciple of celestial marriage was a true principle;
and many things were told me for my consola-
tion.  From that time I ever had a doubt
about the truth of that principle, for I knew I
had conversed with a heavenly messenger, and
that he had told me the truth, for I was healed
by the power of God.  I arose in the morning
well, and went about my work, and I had been
very ill for three weeks, not expected to live.
I always felt thankful that the Lord had shown
me the truth of that holy principle.  We as
Latter-day Saints have great reason to rejoice
that we live in this day, when light has been
revealed from heaven to redeem mankind.
Wishing the EXPONENT every success, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel
	MARIAH PULSIPHER BURGESS.
	Thurber, Piute Co., March 12th 1883.


A JOYFUL TIME

	In honor and respect to Sister Elizabeth
P. Williams, a noble and much beloved mother
in Israel, and the respected President of the
Relief Society in St. John's, a party was
given by the sisters of the Relief Society, 
March 15th 1883; on that day she was sixty-
three years old.  About thirty persons as-
sembled at her residence, a bountiful dinner
was prepared, and all enjoyed themselves.  
After dinner the time was well spent in sing-
ing, dancing, etc..  Sister Williams was pre-
sented with a nice rocking chair, and other
nice presents were made.  Later in the even-
ing supper was prepared, and several brethren
joined the sisters at the table, and afterwards
the evening was pleasantly spent; songs by
Bro. Hill, Bro. J. James, Sister Jane An-
thony and Lewis Lewis; then singing by all
in the room.  Speech from President Lewis
in praise of Sister Williams.  The President
of the Relief Society expressed herself grate-
ful for the honor and good feelings.  All
were happy and comforted, and it was an oc-
casion never to be forgoten.  
	ANNA J. JOSEPHSON, 
	Secretary.


The first annual meeting of the Deseret
Hospital Association was held May 12 in the
Council House in this City. Report of the past
year's labors was presented which will be pub-
lished next issue.

	"THE WOLF AND THE LION."—Philadel-
phia, Pa., April 27th, 1883. A new phrase was
used in the convention to-day by one of two la-
dies from St Louis,who, in behalf of the branch
leagues of which they are members, presented
the one $850 and the other $500 to the Na-
tional League. Said the latter: "The ladies
propose to keep the wolf from the door while
the men are keeping away the lion." This clev-
erly turned phrase caught the fancy of the con-
vention at once, and the applause was deafening
as she took her seat. The spectacle of ladies'
sitting as members of a convention is a novel
one, but is rather pleasing. The delegates of
the gentle sex have taken a great interest in
the proceedings, though, except in voting they
have borne no active part. Those who have
spoken have acquitted themselves like veter-
ans, and, altogether, the success attending the
admission on equal terms of women as dele-
gates is a strong argument for their side of the
female suffrage question. They have been
treated with great respect, and even with ten-
der regard, by the other members of the con-
vention, and no doubt the proceedings have
been more orderly and decorous than they
would have been had they not been conducted
under the eyes of the ladies on the platform at
all the sessions.				Boston Herald.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, * * Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 15, 1883.


[Column 1]

WOMEN SELF-SUPPORTING

	Step by step women are advancing in indus-
trial pursuits, and becoming more helpful in
the great battle of life, the struggle for a tempor-
al existance, termed in common parlance, "get-
ting a living." Even women of refinement and
possessed of superior attainments do not feel
quite satisfied to be dependent altogether upon
the exertions of the "men folks," of the house-
hold, but intelligent cultivated women step out
into avenues of employment and actually earn
money of their own. It is true that woman is
the homekeeper as well as the housekeeper, and
that her hands must beautify and adorn, and
her sweet face and quiet, gentle ways make
home the most delightful place in the world to
its inmates by performing all the duties inci-
dental to such a position, and whenever it is
possible, it seems only consistent that she should
be relieved of all pecuniary cares, but it fre-
quently happens that the wheels of life's lumber-
ing coach get clogged, and impediments often
lie in the pathway of prosperity, and if the wife,
the help meet can assist in removing any of
these obstructions, so much the better and easier
are they overcome. And there are instances
where heavier burdens fall on delicate, sensi-
tive, shrinking women, and find them totally
unprepared to lift up any burden; for imsfortune
comes to rich as well as poor, and not unfrequent-
ly women are left to work out the problem of
bread and butter, or depend upon the charity of
friends.
	How difficult for those who have never been
educated in the school of self-reliance, never
been disciplined in any regular habits of busi-
ness, perchance, not trained in methods of econ-
omy in performing labor. On such women
heavy indeed fall the burdens of self-support.
	The best way to better the condition of wo-
men in these respects is to make industrial oc-
cupations for women popular, and to elevate
labor, In order to do this, much must be done
by means of the press and the platform. It is
the opinion of many well-meaning people, and
those of good judgment too, that the ballot is to
be the great lever towards lifting women
into the higher and broader atmosphere of inde-
pendence, but granting that even, women need
the advantage of public expression through
newspapers and organizations of their own,
whereby they mutually educate and benefit
each other, to accomplish the necessary good.
There is no better method of communication
between people engaged in any public enterprise
than that of a newspaper, and until women
talk to each other freely in this way and ex-
press their views and feelings, no great, tangi-
ble change will take place in the advancement of

[Column 2]

the masses of women. And it must be a paper,
too, that will reach the hearts of the people.
Why should not women represent their own in-
terests in public print as well as in other direc-
tions, especially those who have the exercise of
the ballot? The Latter-day Saint women have
many good reasons for sustaining a paper of
their own. The several women's organizttions
that exist wherever the Latter-day Saints have
settled throughout the Rocky Mountain region,
and also in different parts of the United States
and in other countries, the British Isles, Scandi-
navia and the Swiss and German mission, the
Hawaiian Islands, New Zealand and Australia.
These require the medium of a newspaper to give
information and instruction on all matters per-
taining to the work in all its various details.  
The EXPONENT has now completed its eleventh
volume. The next number commences a new
volume and should real'y make a new era in its
circulation. It is said to be a good missionary
paper and a great benefit to the Elders of the
Church who are out in their fields of labor pro-
claiming the Gospel. We are in hopes that it
will be somewhat improved in appearance at
the commencement of the new volume.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"One Day in Utah" is the title of a little book
written by a French nobleman who recently
visited America, Vicomte d' Haussonville. It
has been translated into English by Leo Haef-
fell, of the Ogden Herald. It is a very neat lit-
tle pamphlet, and is a good work to send abroad.
The author has given in his own way what he
saw and heard, and his impressions in regard to
Utah and the "Mormons." The spirit of the
book is fair and genuine, which is always in fa-
vor of the truth. We congratulate Mr. Haef-
fel on his part of the work which has certainly
been well done.
	WE have on sale at this office "Bible Ques-
tions and Answers, by E. R. S. Smith," also
Primary Speakers, Numbers 1 and 2, each 25 cts.
per copy. The "Correspondence of Palestine
Tourists," and Poems of E. R. Snow—volume
1 and 2. These books are so cheap that every
home should have them on the table. We
have, also, cards for the Primary Association,
and the officers should take pains to see the As-
sociations supplied with them. The Alphabet
in Rhyme and Question cards, Numbers 1, 2
and 3—all one cent each. The Word of Wis-
dom, ten cents apiece.
	ASENATH A. ADAMS and Emma Green have
opened a Ladies Art Bazar on Kimball Block,
where they will be pleased to see customers
They will keep a great variety of ladies fancy
goods. They have the most improved methods
of stamping, including the indelible, which can
be used on the finest goods. They keep a full
stock of crewels, foreign and domestic, and Ger-
man wool for fancy embroidery, all the late
novelties in designs for needle work, all the new
and aesthetic colors in plushes and fancy goods.
The most elegant and magnificent flowers for
decorating—lilies, poppies, roses etc., call and ex-
amine their new goods; the ladies will be sure to
find something to please them in this handsome
line of fancy work and light goods. The ladies
have added to their establishment kid glove
cleaning, which is quite an item in this line. If
you want to see beautiful, fancy and ornamental
work, call at the Ladies Art Bazar, on Kimball
Block.
	ON Friday morning, September 27th, Sisters
Eliza R. S. Smith and Elizabeth Howard left
this city to attend the Conference of the Ladies
Associations at Morgan. On Saturday the Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Morgan Stake


was held in the new Stake House. The meet-
ings were excellent in every respect, and there
was a large attendance. Sunday afternoon the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Assoca-
tion held their conference, the assembly being
very large indeed. On Monday the Conference
of the Primary Associations was assembled
with another full house, the children showing
to good advantage the training they had re-
ceived. The Y. L. M. I. A. also held a fair on
Monday, which was very creditable to all par-
ties connected therewith. Sister Eliza R. S.
Smith spoke at each of these meetings, and al-
though at her time of life many ladies would
only sit in a corner and knit, she was buoyant
in spirit, her voice clear and strong, and her
teachings rich in wisdom and understanding.
Sister Smith is indeed a wonderful woman.
Few indeed at her age could travel from place to
place and speak two and three, and sometimes
four times in one day as she does.


THE UNITY CLUB. 

	The Deseret Hospital gladly acknowledge
another liberal contribution from the Unity
Club of $200, the proceeds of the entertainment
given in the Salt Lake Theatre, Monday even-
ing, April 5th, after all the expenses were set-
tled. The Unity Club have certainly given
positive proof of their financial ability, as well
as talent and tact in pleasing the public and
giving full value for money received. It is
usual in entertainments or fairs for the benefit
of charitable institutions to charge extra for ad-
mission, and at fairs to ask fabulous prices for
articles on sale.
	This has not been the case with the Unity
Club, the public in every instance have been
pleased, and have only paid the usual prices.
Bishop H. B. Clawson has worked faithfully to
assist the ladies in these matters. An associa-
tion which has only been six months organized
to be able to donate $700 made by their own
exertions, is something exceptional indeed.
	The Y. L., Y. M. M. I. and Primary Associa-
tions of Spanish Fork, combined forces and
talent and gave a concert recently, and made a
donation of part of the proceeds ($15.00) to the
Deseret Hospital. They were ably assisted in
the management of the affair by Brother Wil-
liam Jones of that place, a man noted for his
musical ability.


ANNUAL REUNION.

	THE yearly meeting of the Y. L. Association
of the First Ward, was held on April 25th, 1883,
A number of the leading Sisters were present,
Sisters E. R. S. Smith, M. I. Horne, M. Y.
Dougal, Margaret P. Young, M. A. Freeze.
	A dinner was prepared for them by the offi-
cers and members of the Association at Prest.
Sarah Graham's. Bishop Joseph Warburton
being present; it was a very pleasant time, all
seemed to enjoy themselves. After dinner all
went to the meeting house. where many more
were waiting. President Sarah Graham presi-
ded over the meeting. Some excellent instruc-
tions were given to the young and old, which
will never be forgotten. Counselor A. Steel
made a few good remarks, the Bishop closed
with some good counsel to all—an excellent
spirit prevailed.		LOTTIE E. ARGUST,
								Secretary.


FORGIVENESS.

	There is no virtue in the human heart which
so adorns the lips and character of an individual
as forgiveness. For proof of this, look at the
example of the Savior, who, while suffering on


the cross at the hands of his enemies, cried out
in his anguish of soul, "Father, forgive them,
they know not what they do." Shall man; cre-
ated but little lower than the angels, follow the
example of Him in whom there was "no guile,"
or shall he debase himself by failing to do so?
	So apt are we to stray from the path of duty
that we find ourselves often called upon to for-
give the faults of those who do us an injury,
and unless we forgive hatred will reign triumph-
ant in our hearts. But if we forgive those who
offend us we obey the injunctions of Christ, and
contribute to the enjoyment of the offender,
and advance our own happiness and hopes of
forgiveness.
	If slander is hurled to crush our hope we
should remember "to err is human," and freely
forgive the offender. The man with a revenge-
ful spirit is in a perpetual storm, he is his own
tormentor, and his guilt, of course, is his pun-
ishment; whether he is at home or abroad, in
company or alone, it still engrosses his thoughts,
and as Providence has ordained that whosoever
meditates against the peace of another shall
even in the design lose his own.
	My advice would be to banish all spiteful and
revengeful thoughts, for a spirit of revenge is the
very spirit of the devil. Let him whose soul is
darkened with malice walk through a field clad
with verdure and flowers, and nothing will
appear beautiful to him, but on the other hand
to the person whose heart is full of forgiveness
every thing appears beautiful. Hoping we will
all cultivate a spirit of forgiveness and charity
towards one another, I remain, etc,
	M. A. WELCH.
South Morgan.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 189﻿


YOUNG LADIES AND MATRIMONY.

	I sometimes think some of our young girls
do not fully understand the important step they
are taking when they give their hand to be
joined in wedlock. The best women have an in-
stinctive wish to marry a man superior to them-
selves, which I think, is as it should be, for a
woman that marries a man inferior to herself,
wrongs herself, her family, and her whole life,
for he will most likely drag her to his level. In
the first place, one should marry for love; res-
pect is very well, and that we should have and
hold, bui it does not answer in place of affection.
	Girls, do not marry a man that is naturally
cruel, if he will wantonly torture a poor dumb
cat or dog, fly from him as you would from a
snake. If his nature delights in torture he will
not spare his wife and children. Do not marry
a fop; there is in such a character nothing that
commands respect. Look with disdain on what
are called fast young men, those who frequent
the saloon to satisfy an unnatural thirst for fire
water, and those filled with conceit, who talk
large and use either vulgar phrases or oaths.
Those who wear dashing finery and look with
disdain on others who toil in some honest occu-
pation.
	It is folly for young women to think they can
reclaim the ones they love. I say to young
maidens, be warned in time; can you reclaim
those who have not the power to reclaim them-
selves? I say not often. Beware, for oft the
deepest rascal wears the finest clothes and has
the smoothest tongue. Before you begin to
scold me for this impious thing, first look
around and see if it is not true. Young ladies,
as life is precious to you, and since you value it
highly, take no chances; better than marry a
young man whom you know to drink a little
now and then, (for his friends sake) wait a
while longer. 
	To think of regaining a young man from in-
temperance is simply folly to him; your efforts


to keep him from the cup would be like dam-
ming up a river with a feather, like stopping a
hurricane with a tin whistle. There are many
things I would like to mention, but space will
not permit. In our next paper, perhaps, I will
give my opinion on what kind of a young man
a good girl should marry.
	MARTHA HEINER. 
The EVENING STAR, South Morgan.


TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

TO OUR SISTER ARMEDA.

The following expression of affectionate regard was
presented to Mrs. Armeda Snow Young on her departure
on a mission to the Sandwich Islands with her husband. 

	We, the officers and members of the Y. L. M.
I. Association of the Third Ward of Brigham 
City, feel to tender our thanks and appreciation
of your interest in our behalf, and we do ac-
knowledge that we have enjoyed your efforts in
doing good in our midst, therefore we ask you
to accept this ring as a small token of "true
friendship."
	We present it to you because we LOVE you,
and wish you to remember, when you are in a
far distant land, that, no matter what comes,
there are still "true friends at home."
	May you go out into the world as a messenger
of "peace," that wherever you go that heavenly
influence will secure for you a band of true
friends We ask our Father to bless Sister Ar-
meda and guide her barge through the voyage
of this life; may your heart always be full of
"Faith, Hope and Charity," that you ever shall
keep in sight the bright "Beacon light of
Truth."
	We bid you "Farewell" for a short season; and
when you return, we pray, may not one link be
broken in the chain of friendship, but more so,
do we sincerely hope, that we may ALL prove
worthy to meet in the "grand reunion" in
Father's Home, where we shall meet those
"Loved ones who have gone before."


TESTIMONIAL TO BISHOP CRANE.

	"Honor to whom honor is due." The good
people of Herriman celebrated the 52nd birth-
day of their Bishop, James Crane, in a very
suitable manner, expressive of the high appre-
ciation in which he is held; the people of his
ward feel that he is indeed a father and a friend.
He has labored faithfully to lead the young peo-
ple of his ward in the ways of the Lord, that
they may attain to honor. An excellent ad-
dress was prepared for the occasion, by Sister
Jane Bowen and was read at the party. The
sisters of the ward contributed the means and
presented the Bishop with a nice gold watch
and chain, which he received with happiness
and gratitude. The party was held in the
schoolhouse and about two hundred and fifty
people sat down to a sumptuous dinner. Sister
Bowen also composed a poem that was read and
highly appreciated. There were several
speeches made, and much good feeling ex-
pressed, calculated to happify and encourage the
Bishop. The evening was occupied in dancing
and social enjoyment.


DIED.

	Little Heber Kimball, son of Orson F. and
Zina S. Whitney, died in Provo, April 20th,
1883, from measels. He was born June 3rd, 1882,
and though his sojourn on earth was short, the
little one was entwined around the hearts of all
who knew him, and was a source of much com-
fort to his mother, having been born after th


departure of her husband, who is still fulfilling a
mission in Europe.
	"A lovely bud, so soft so fair,
		Called hence by earthly doom
	Just sent to show, how sweet a flower
		In Paradise would bloom."

	Died, in this city, April 2nd, 1883, of consumption,
Caroline Iverson, beloved wife of Soren Iverson, born
October 4th 1836. A pure spirit has left us, one well
prepared to dwell in a holier sphere, where she now
shines among the jewels of that glorious court on high.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	We the sisters of the Relief Society of the Second
Ward, Salt Lake City, unanimously adopt the following
Resolutions:
	Whereas, it has pleased an alwise Providence to call
from our midst by the hand of death, our beloved sister
and friend, Therefore,
	Resolved, that we do recognize in the death of our
Sister Caroline Iverson, the loss of an able, efficient and
faithful member of our Society.
	Resolved, that we esteem her past faithful labors and
devotion to duty as worthy the fellowship and emula-
tion of us all. 
	Resolved, that we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved husband, children, relatives and
friends, in the loss of a loving wife, affectionate mother
and a true friend.
	Resolved, that these Resolutions be spread upon the
records of the Relief Society of the Second Ward, and
that a copy of them be sent to the bereaved husband,
also that a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
					SARAH WHEELER, President.
					SARAH MCGREGAR, Secretary.


IN MEMORIAM

	Sister Cynthia Durfee died at her home in Beaver
Dams, Box Elder Co., Utah, February the 20th, 1883,
aged seventy three years, two months and twenty days.
Deceased was born in the State of Vermont, and was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, in the year 1830, and has passed through a great
many trying scenes in the Church, but she has ever been
true and faithful to the Gospel, never doubting its truth.
She was the wife of Francillo Durfee, one of the Mor-
mon Battalion. Long may her good example live in the
hearts of her children and friends.
	Resolutions of respect on the death of Sister Cynthia
Durfee, adopted at a meeting of the Relief Society of
Beaver Dams, held March 1st, 1883.
	Whereas, God in his wisdom has seen fit to call from
our midst our much loved and worthy teacher, and, 
	Whereas, her labors in our Association have been
faithfully performed, we feel that some proper recogni-
tion of her virtues be recognized among us, therefore
be it,
	Resolved, that we as members of the Relief Society
do deeply mourn the loss of so valuable and faithful a
co-laborer.
	Resolved, that we condole with each other in this be-
reavement, and tender this token of respect and love to
her relatives and friends in this affliction.
	Resolved, that we present a copy of these resolutions
to her relatives, and have the same published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and keep a copy of the same on
our record.	SARAH A. DURFEE,
			President Relief Society.
Collinston, Utah.


DESERET HOSPITAL, May 12th, 1883.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I wish to express my sincere and heartfelt
gratitude to my numerous friends for their
kind attention and sympathy manifested
towards me during my sojourn in the Deseret
Hospital, where I have been made very com-
fortable.
	I feel, in my heart, to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in the affliction which has over-
taken me, and am assured it will result in a
blessing, for I have learned by a long expe-
rience under the "New and Everlasting Cove-
nant" that all things are overruled for good to
those who love God. I know it is good to
serve the Lord, and I desire to devote my life
to His service. Nor do I forget my dear rela-
tives and friends in St. George, where the acci-


dent took place, after which I remained there
four weeks at the residence of my brother in-
law, Mr. R. Bently. Friends were on hand to
render what aid and comfort they could. The
hope was entertained that it was only a sprain
and would take time to regain strength. By
a surgical examination it proves to be a bro-
ken bone which will require an apparatus (sent
for to New York) to wear to strengthen the
limb and hold it in position to enable me to walk.
	I expect to remain at the Hospital until the
article named shall arrive, which will be, prob-
ably, two weeks longer. In the hope of again
being permitted to be among my friends, the
Saints of God.
			Respectfully,
						M. A. P. HYDE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PROVO, UTAH CO.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake of Zion, held in
the Provo meeting house, March 2nd, 1883.
On the stand, President Margaret T. Smoot,
Counselor Mary John, Zina D. H. Young and
several of the brethren. Conference opened
with the usual exercises of singing and prayer, 
reading of minutes and reports, etc. Presi-
dents of the various societies gave verbal re-
ports, and also bore their testimonies to the
truth of the latter-day work.
	President M. T. Smoot said, "I feel happy
to meet with you again. I wish to hear from
all the Presidents of this Stake. Sister Zina
is with us to-day, and she belongs to us when
she is here. My heart is filled with blessings
for you; your reports express the diligence and
good works you have accomplished, and I pray
that we may all continue faithful." Bishop
Tanner said it was a satisfaction to hear the
sisters speak; in the pathway of duty there was
safety; exhorted parents to be diligent with
their families in training them aright, for the
future of their lives depended in a great mea-
sure upon the parents. Exhorted all to be
humble and prayerful; spoke of the duties of
the members of the Relief Societies, and said
we can lay the foundation for our children to
build upon. May God help us to have His
holy spirit. After singing and benediction, 
conference adjourned till two p.m. Meeting
opened with singing and prayer. President
Smoot spoke a few words expressive of her
thankfulness for the interest the brethren and
sisters took in her behalf; felt to wish to live to
do all the good she could. Sister Zina D. H.
Young said, "If Sister Smoot should lay off
this mortal coil it would only be to rest tem-
porally and work for us behind the veil; our
loved ones love us after they leave us just
as much better as they are better; when our
friends leave us they are only a little ahead of
us." Spoke of the spirit of unity and love, of
prayer, of faith and obedience to all the com-
mands of God. Counseled mothers to send
their children to the Primaries. Spoke of the
principle of celestial marriage, and counseled
the sisters never to oppose it, but ask God for a 
testimony for themselves. Bore her testimony
to the holy feeling prevalent in the Temple at
St. George, of the purity, the beauty, the com-
fort there. The Spirit of the Lord was with us
throughout the whole conference to a great de-
gree. Sister Sarah Roberts, of Goshen, spoke
in the gift of tongues, and Sister Young gave
the interpretation. * * * Sister John
spoke of her feelings in the Temple at St.
George; advised the sisters to attend to the
work for the dead. Spoke of her belief in
celestial marriage and prayed that all might
understand it; prayed God to bless Sister
Smoot, that her life might be prolonged to do
much good. After singing, and benediction by 

[Column 2]

Bishop Johnson; conference adjourned for
three months.	CAROLINE DANIELS,
	Secretary.

SNAKE RIVER. 

	CEDAR, BUTTE, March 30th, 1883. 
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	After reading the WOMAN'S EXPONENT I 
feel impressed to write a few lines to put in it.
I think it a very excellent paper, one which
every mother should have in her house, for her
daughters and herself to read. It is a great
help to me, as I am President of the Y. L. M.
I. A., and think it ought to be patronized by
our sisters, as it has been printed for their 
benefit.
	On the 21st of December we were organ-
ized by President J. R. Pool, with the follow-
ing officers: Serreta Pool, President; Mary and
Annie Stephens, Counselors, Susie Pool Secre-
tary; Emily Pool, Assistant Secretary; Chris-
tena Pool, Treasurer. We have about twenty-
five members enrolled; though our numbers are
small we are striving to prepare ourselves to 
become useful members in the kingdom of
God. We realize that we have a great work
to perform, and unless we are diligent we can-
not expect to gain the reward, which our
Father has promised to his faithful children.
Our meetings are very interesting, and we are
all doing our part to help them along, mean-
while remembering, practice makes perfect. I
think it is a good thing we can have these
meetings, they are a great benefit to the young;
and should we not be thankful that we have
such Sisters as Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D. 
H. Young, and other sisters who travel from
place to place organizing the sisters? I think we
ought. I hope they may live a good many
years yet, and have health and strength, and I 
hope we may sometimes have them visit us up
here in our far away homes.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, and the
success of the EXPONENT, I remain your sister
in the Gospel, SERRETA POOL,
	President. 

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I can say our Primary and Y. L. Association
in this stake of Zion are prospering. Myself 
in company with several of the Stake officers
of Primary and Y. L., also of the R. S., visited
Mona by invitation, February 17th. Met with
the Primary, at Sister Elinor Somervilles at
one p.m. Besides sisters, there were several of
the brethren present, also President Paxman. 
	Singing. Prayer by Bro. McConlie. Sing-
ing. The exercises of the children were well
rendered follwed by addresses by Sisters H. 
Grover, A. Goldsbrough, M. Pitchforth and E. 
Somerville, Brothers L. A. Baily, Hawes, 
Pixton and President Paxman. Apostle Teas-
dale and wife came in, he spoke a few minutes
of blessings to the children. The meeting was
then given over to the Young Ladies and ad-
dressed by Elder Teasdale upon our duties as
an Improvement Association, said we should
strive to become good housekeepers, and that
life is just what we make it.
	President Paxman said, There are many du-
ties binding upon man, so also upon woman. 
We are the children of God, we should strive
to know our duties. Be careful not to grieve
the Holy Spirit, for there is no happiness in
wrong doing. After dismissing we adjourned
to Bro. Newtons to celebrate the sixty-seventh
birthday of President Eliza Somerville, who
was led in by her first Counselor, where her
friends had preceeded her, she having received
no intimation was genuinely surprised. She
was first presented with a handsomely framed
picture of Apostle Teasdale by himself. Sec-
cond by a splendid picture of Sister E. R. S.
Smith, from the Mona Relief Society with an
appropriate speech by her first Counselor Eli

[Column 3]

nor Somerville, also several small presents
from individual friends, followed by a most
bountiful repast. The evening was spent pleas-
antly in singing and appropriate speeches from
nearly everyone present, numbering fifty per-
sons.	H. GROVER,
	Acting Secretary. 

Y. L., M. I. A. OF GOSHEN, 
DEAR EDITOR:
	I write you a few items in regard to our as-
sociation. It has been seven years since the
young ladies of this place were organized.
Ever since that time this association has been
growing in interest, as well as in numbers, un-
til it has reached nearly every young lady in
the place; and its influence is felt by all.
	Hattie J. Higginson, who has been president
ever since the organization, has resigned, and
the following persons were sustained as officers, 
and set apart by Bishop Price and counselors.
Mary Ann Gardner, President; Persis Roberts
and Rohda Gourley, Counselors; Lucy P. Tay-
lor Secretary; S. J. Poulson, Treasurer; A. M.
Litchfield, Millicent Jameson, Rachel Edwards,
Emma Morgans and Mamie Price, Assistant
Secretaries.
	Adopted by the association.
	Resolutions of respect to our beloved presi-
dent, Hattie J. Higginson, and her first Coun-
selor, Christina Higginson, on their departure
to Idaho.
	We the members of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
feel to regret the departure of our president
and counselor, whom we love so dearly. It is
now seven years since we were first organized,
and we can truly say we have never had occa-
sion for a jar during this time. While we were
weak together we were led along step by step
by their good example and able teachings.
	Whereas, they are going to help build up
the waste places in Zion, may their labors
prove as beneficial to the youth with whom
they will associate as they have been to us, only
in a wider sphere. And may they find as many
loving and sincere friends as those they leave
behind. May their wise counsel and kindness
sink deep into our hearts to be a guide to us
through future life.
	Whereas, they have embraced the law of
celestial marriage they have faithfully per-
formed their duties in that regard, and their
lives in that order are truly worthy of imita-
tion. We deeply regret the loss of such an
estimable President and Counselor; but hope
our loss will be their gain. We trust we may 
be able to find those who will be able to fill
their places as honorably as they have done.
We will ever pray for their success and happi-
ness.	LUCY P. TAYLOR,
	Secretary.
Goshen, U. T. April 12th, 1883.

EMERY STAKE.
	Report of the organization of the Relief So-
cieties and Primary Associations of Emery
Stake of Zion.
	Relief Society of Castle Dale Ward, organ-
ized August 24th, 1882, under the direction
of the President of the Stake, assisted by Presi-
dent Anna M. Larsen and Counselor Joana
Childs. Anna M. Larsen, President; Hannah
Seely and Harriet Wilcox; Counselors; Lucinda 
Jeffs, Secretary; Violet Wilcox, Assistant Sec-
retary; Ellen Miller, Treasurer; Caroline Lar-
sen, head teacher; and six visiting teachers;
Officers, thirteen; Members, twenty-five.
	Primary Association of Castle Dale Ward,
organized January 6th, 1883. Stena Olsen, 
President; Caroline Larsen and Annena M.
Justisen, Counselors; Sarah Seely, Secretary;
Franklin P. Larsen, Assistant Secretary; Mens
Petersen, Treasurer; Officers, six; Members,
twenty-nine.
	Relief Society of Orangeville Ward, organ-
ized August 29th, 1882, Caroline Curtis, Presi-


dent; Sarah A. Fulmer and Ellen Robertsen,
Counselors; Joanna P. Curtis, Secretary; Eliza-
beth Reid, Treasurer; Officers, twelve; Mem-
bers, thirty-seven.
	Primary Association of Moab Ward, organ-
ized February 21st, 1883, by President C. G.
Larsen and Council. Betsy Burnham, Presi-
dent; Laura Taylor and Sarah A. Stewart,
Counselors; Eunice Pritchett, Secretary;
George F. Burnham, Assistant Secretary; Ro-
sanna, Stewart, Treasurer; Officers, six; Mem-
bers, fifty two.
	Primary Association of Huntington Ward,
organized November 25th, 1882, by President
Anna M. Larsen. Margaret Crandall, Presi-
dent; Emma Leonard and Laura Neilson,
Counselors; John F. Wakefield, Secretary;
Hannah Johnson, Assistant Secretary; Susan
J. Wakefield, Treasurer; Officers, six; Mem-
bers, seventy-three.
	President C. G. Larsen and Counselors, also
the Bishops and Counselors of their respective
wards, were present at most of the organiza-
tions, and blessed and set apart the officers.
			ANNA M. LARSEN, President.
			ANNA E. SEELY, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 191


SANDWICH ISLANDS.

LAIE, SANDWICH ISLANDS.
DEAR EDITOR:
I take the liberty of writing a few lines to
you at the present time for the purpose of giv-
ing you a brief account of the condition and
labors of the Relief Societies which are now
organized on the different islands.
There are five on this island (Oahu), four
on Hawaii, three on Kauai, and two on Maui,
making fourteen in all. Reports were read
from all at our Conference, with the exception
of two; the verbal reports given by the Presi-
dents who were present and also from the El-
ders who have been traveling and laboring
among them for the past six months, are very
encouraging indeed.	
I send you the minutes of our Conference,
tsken by the secretary, a native sister, and
translated into English by President Partridge;
the report may not be correct in every respect,
as the secretaries are all inexperienced in
things of this kind, but they are willing to be
taught, and anxious to be instructed in all
their duties, that they may understand what is
required of them; they are energetic in their
labors, and very liberal in donating; they have
a very pleasant way of assisting each other;
when they wish to perform some work and
have not the means to do so, they invite the
other Societies to assist them.
The Society at Laie is intending to build a
house for the accommodation of the poor who
have not comfortable homes, and have called
upon the other societies to assist in raising the
necessary means, and have now on hand the
sum of $149, and promise of more as soon as
there is an opportunity to send it. Great
efforts are being made by the Elders to per-
suade the people to forsake their evil ways.
					S. L. PARTRIDGE.

 The Presidents and members of the Relief
Societies of the Hawaiian Islands assembled in
the Meeting House, Mrs. S. L. Partridge, with
her Counselors, presiding. The Secretary read
the reports of the different Societies organized
on the islands. The Presidents reported the
condition of the Societies. Their faithfulness
was manifest, and also their zeal in assisting
the poor and those who are weak, and the or-
phan children in the Church. The societies
are gathering a sum of money for the purpose
of building a house at Laie to accommodate
the poor in the Church of Jesus Christ on the
Hawaiian Islands.
The President said, she was pleased to meet
with the Relief Societies, “we have heard, the
reports, which show your faithfulness in this
work. The Society here at Laie is very active
at all times in assisting the poor, and so it is,
no doubt, with all the societies. May the
Lord bless you all. Amen.” 
The names of the officers of the general
organization are as follows: Mrs. S. L. Part-
ridge, President; S. G. Anderson, L. Kaaha-
nui and Nalia, Counselors; and L. K. Lahaole,
Secretary.
 The officers of all the Societies were sus-
tained. President Edward Partridge said,
Let all who hear these words arouse them-
selves; this is right. Your President is pleased
with your report, which she designs to con-
dense and send to the Rocky Mountains, that
it may be published in the woman’s paper
there. The President of this branch Society
desired my permission to commence the erec-
tion of a house for the afflicted and destitute,
and the societies have responded quickly to let-
ters sent them, with money to assist. There-
fore, we will build a house according to our
means, and let us be awake to this work.
Never give way to the temptations of the devil.
It is the desire of the President to visit the
different islands to learn the condition of the
societies. Meeting was dismissed by prayer by
Elder Rhead.	L. K, LAHAOLE,
				  Secretary.
 Statistical and financial report of the several
branches of the Relief Society on the Hawaii-
an Islands for the year ending April 5th, 1883.
Number of members, October 6th, 1882, 250;
Died, 12; Removed, 21; Members added, 26;
Number of members, April 5th, 1883, 249.
On hand, October 5th, 1882, $297.17; Receipts
during the six months, $212.82; Amount dis-
bursed for poor, $93.50; For other purposes,
$112.20 On hand at date, $304.29. Names
of officers, Mrs. S. L. Partridge, President; J.
G. Anderson, L. Kaahanui and Nalia, Coun-
selors; L. R. Lahaole, Secretary. 
Laie, Oahu, April 5th, 1883.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

			ST. JOHNS, February 14th, 1883.
EDITORY EXPONENT:
	I thought perhaps a short piece from St.
Johns might be read with interest by some of
your numerous readers; many of whom, we the
inhabitants of St. Johns, have been associated
with for years.  We often think of the good
meetings, Sunday School Unions and Primary
jubilees we used to attend in the large Taber-
nacle and Assembly Hall, at Salt Lake City.
And still when we think of those times of re-
joicing that are past, our hearts fill with joy,
and we seem again to hear the sweet voices of
thousands of children singing praises to God.
We, to some extent, are deprived of the bless-
ings and privileges which we used to enjoy
while living in Utah.  We do not have the
privilege of beholding the faces of those noble
women of Zion, and of hearing the soul en-
lightening instructions, which ever fall from
their lips, like drops of dew from heaven at
eve, on drooping flowers, which have stood all
day in the hot summer sun.  We do not have
the privilege of seeing them, and hearing their
voices now, but we hope ere long that they will
visit us in this far off country of Arizona,
which God has decreed should be built up and
inhabited by the Saints in these the latter days;
for this purpose we have been called upon to
leave our comfortable homes, friends and rela-
tives, and come to dwell in the wilds of Ari-
zona, among the red men and Mexicans. Do
we think our lot is hard?  No, we are young
and strong, fit subjects to undergo the trials
and hardships of building up a new country. 
We are the sons and daughters of those noble
men and women, who were driven from their
homes in Nauvoo and Illinois by the hands of

[Column 2]
the mob compelled to cross the Mississippi river
in the dead of Winter, while the cold merci-
less winds pierced their half clad bodies
through and through; after crossing the dreary
plains, they arrived at Salt Lake Valley, free
from mob violence, but not free from the pangs
of hunger and privations.  Many of them
died, tired and worn out with hardship; those
who survived were preserved by the hand  of
the Lord, for the purpose of establishing Zion
in  the Rocky Mountains.  We are their sons
and daughters, we have often heard them speak
of these trials and hardships; we have their his-
tories before us, and knowing of these things
we would be ashamed to shrink from filling our
mission, which is to redeem the land, and build
up cities in this (as we sometimes hear people
say,) "God forsaken country."  It may seem
"God forsaken" to the wicked, but to the right-
eous it does not seem so.  We as Latter-day
Saints, when we are living our religion, do
know that the Spirit of God is poured out up-
on us when we meet together in our several as-
sociations.  We are living in the midst of a de-
graded and wicked people, who have many
vices and evils, which are calculated to lead
astray our children; our worthy Bishop is using
every precaution, against those evils, that lies
in his power.  We mothers feel thankful that
our children have had the privilege of being
organized in the capacity of a Primary Associa-
tion, which association is in a thriving condi-
tion; its organization was effected January 14th,
1882, with Sister Hannah Romney, President;
July Bingham and Margery Riggs, Counselors;
Olive C. Moffet, Secretary; Sanford H. Bing-
ham Treasurer.  On account of Sister Romney
being called away for a season, a change was
made; Sister July Bingham, President; Margery 
Riggs and Augusta Gibbons, Counselors; the
other officers remaining as they were.  Our 
quarterly reports have been promptly handed
in to the stake secretary at the end of each 
quarter.  
	The children all take a lively interest; we
have a class of boys and girls, who practice
taking minutes at each meeting, their minutes
are frequently read and criticised.  As we live
too far away to meet wiht other associations
in conference, we get up some amusement for
our association at the end of each quarter.  On
last Christmas morning children were seen in
ever direction, flocking toward the Assembly
Hall, where a christmas tree had been pre-
pared, loaded with candies, apples and toys ov
every description.  After all were quietly seat-
ed, Bishop D. R. Udall offered prayer; Master
Lorenzo Gibbons and Sanford H. Bingham, 
each gave a recitation, suitable for the occasion;
the candies and toys were distributed in order, 
and the little folks returned to their homes re-
joicing.  
	Hoping you will find space for this article
in your valuable paper, we remain your sisters
in the Gospel of Christ. 
				JULY A. BINGHAM, 
			President Primary Association, 
				OLIVE C. MOFFIT, 
							Secretary.


LAKE CONSTANCE.
	LUCERNE, Oct. 12th, 1882.
	The night train may be a convenient medi-
um for transportation. It is rarely enjoyable
in this land, yet it has its own peculiar ele-
ments for interesting the stranger. Of course
the train is made up of many compartment
cars. These are of several grades—first,
second, and third. The numbers are marked
on the outside of the doors, but the different
grades of cars are not all together. They are
assorted up and down the line without refer-
ence to any known rule. After one gets used
to the lack of arrangement it does not seem to


[Column 1]
make any vital difference so long as there is
daylight to assist one in determining one’s
whereabouts, but after dark your mathematics
and patience may be put to the test.
	There is no system for checking baggage, as
in our own land. Very little goes under any
circumstances, without extra charge. You
pay for the transportation and have the care of
looking after it yourself. The officials never
show any great alacrity in assisting your
efforts. If the time is short in making a change
of cars you may lose the train before what you
have can be found and examined. The conse-
quence of this is a deal of hand luggage. Ten
persons sitting in a single compartment may
count up from ten to thirty packages. A dim
light glimmers down from a little lamp up
above, which dispenses half its benefactions to
the next compartment. Suddenly you may be
whisked into a gloomy depot, your guards an-
nouncing that you are to “have your luggage
examined, and change cars.” Then there are
sighs, possibly groans, from the sleepers, after
that, “hurrying in hot haste.” Portmanteaus,
bags, bundles, umbrellas, walking sticks,
wraps and passengers, become a confused mass
of animation.
	If you have reached a frontier station the
custom house officers are on duty; if it is sim-
ply for a new departure, you may move on.
The guards shout, you try this section, and
then that. Every one is full, or numbered
differently from your ticket. At last you spy
a snug corner, get your things adjsuted to
your mind, to find yourself in a “damen” car,
where your gentlemen friends are not admitted,
or in a compartment where smoking is not
prohibited. One calamity is as bad as the
other. We have been in a car where the pro-
hibition not being hung up, five or six of our
fellow travelers were making ready to smoke
to any extent regardless of the discomfort of
the ladies present and the fact that the win-
dows were closed. You always get out of the
tangle some way even at the last moment. If
you speak in silvery tones to the guard, it gen-
erally facilitates matters, and you will be very
likely to find yourself in a compartment that
is appropriated by none but our own party.
The door does not open to others as easily as it
might, and you settle yourself comfortably
in the cushions and find you have plenty of
sleeping room. If it is cool, the guards run
queer looking footstools in, which experience
teaches you contain hot water.
	A lunch is one of the essentials for such
nocturnal rides. Hot coffee can generally be
obtained along the route. We usually take
our tourist’s cup into the restaurants, lest it
prove too hot to drink on the spot. Finding
our own place on our return to the train sets
us up very much in our own estimation.
	When we know the clocks in Munich have
long before rung out the hour of twelve,  we
seem to rouse from dreaming or from thinking,
we hardly know which, but we have a vision,
before our mental eye at least, in which a
maiden and “a strong white charger which fed
from her hand,” go rushing through our mind.
Before the morning breaks fairly on our sight
we see Lake Constance:

Girt round with ragged mountains,
The fair Lake Constance lies,
In her blue heart reflected
Shine back the starry skies,
And watching each white cloudlet
Float silently and slow,
You'd think a piece of Heaven
Lies on our earth below.

	We are no longer sleepy. We are nearing
Bregenz and are straining our eyes in the
morning twilight to find where 

Her battlements and towers
From  their rocky steep,
Have cast their trembling shadows
For ages on the deep;

[Column 2]
Mountain and lake and valley
A sacred legend know,
Of how the town was saved one night,
Three hundred years ago.

	The mountain of St. Gall, and Appenzell
with its snowy peaks, are the setting in which
we find the quaint old city framed. The hills
which lie closely around it are thickly covered
with rich verdure. The snow-dad Sentis in
the distance lends an extra charm to the pic-
ture. It is easy to comprehend here on the
spot how the true heart of the native daughter
of this soil was stirred to its noble deed of
daring when she saw the house of her child-
hood menaced by strangers.
	As the morning brightened, we reached Lin-
dau, as curious in its appearance as anything
we have seen. It lies on an island several
hundred feet from the shore, and is connected
with the mainland by an embankment and
bridge. Tiberius is said to have founded a
fort on this island and maintained a fleet on
the lake. The old tower near the bridge seems
to offer its testimony to that effect.
	A boat of fair proportions was lying at the
pier waiting the coming passengers. A half-
hour’s delay gave us quite a good look at that
odd place. Everything was old and every-
thing was clean. The houses stood with
quaint gables endwise towards the street.
These gables were notched on their outer edge
like the teeth of a saw. A huge marble lion
keeps guard over the little harbor, while a
handsome lighthouse does duty as grandly for
the little place as though the navy of a nation
was dependent on its fidelity for safety. The
place is small. The lion and the lighthouse
are large. We rather enjoyed the air of im-
portance they put on. A hot breakfast on the
little steamer took nothing from our enjoyment
of the trip.
	We find nearly all of these Swiss lakes larg-
er than we expected. This one is forty-two
miles long by eight in width. It is not hem-
med in by high mountains, but commands
many beautiful views of their snowy tops in
the distance. The banks are green and swell
upward toward the bills beyond with many a
picturesque hamlet or town resting among the
verdure. There is a sense of repose over the
whole which is most refreshing to the sight-seer
from the Southern cities.
	As the banks of this lake belong to five dif-
ferent governments, we find some civil looking
custom house officers waiting for us at Roman-
shorn. The scrutiny is not of a severe order.
Before the dinner hour we are at Lucerne, glad
to find ourselves again within its walls, though
it be only to gather up our belongings, find
the rest of pur party who were to meet us
there, and then start on.
—Ex. 	RUTH RANDOM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


In the New York Senate Chamber at
Albany hangs the oldest portrait of Columbus.
It was presented by Mrs.  Maria Farmer, a
granddaughter of Jacob Leslie, governor of
New York in 1689, and bears date 1592.


[Column 1]
A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc, Etc.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSRY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
☞ We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
WW. JENNINGS, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

[Image of store]
HENRY DINWOODEY.

FURNITURE
WALL PAPER,
CARPETS,
FEATHERS, LINOLIUM, LACE CURTAINS, LAMBREQUINS
AND WINDOW CORNICES.
1238 to 1244 FIRST SOUTH STREET,
SALT LAKE CITY.

F Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods,
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
☞ CALL AND EXAMINE. ☜

