[Vol42 | May 1955 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Poem | Title: 320 Herbs for Modern Cookery — Chives Elizabeth Williamson]
Modern Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT-CO.

WOULD YOU LIKE A TOUR TO EUROPE That would include the dedication of The Temple At Berne, Switzerland? For complete details write or phone— VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 4-2017 The Historic Train Will leave Salt Lake City August 5th and will include The Pageant At The Hill Cumorah We give the most for the least!

Good Housekeeping Homes COOK BOOK Westinghouse COOK BOOK BETTY FURNESS Ideal as Shower or Wedding Gifts 1. BETTY CROCKER'S GOOD AND EASY COOK BOOK Prepare delightful meals easily and quickly with this compact and handy cook book by Betty Crocker. It contains 1000 timesaving recipes that are really delicious. This book is wonderfully arranged, offers so many helpful hints, and is unbelievably priced at only $1.00 2. GOOD HOUSEKEEPING COOK BOOK This excellent cook book contains: over 3000 recipes, including 1000 new ones; enlarged chapters on pressure cookery, home freezing, quantity cookery, leftovers, quick-and-easy dishes to prepare, foreign dishes, barbecues, treats for children, chafingdishes; popular step-by-step ''Susan'' recipes; and directions all the way from intelligent buying to attractive serving. $3.95 3. BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS NEW COOK BOOK You'll find a rich storehouse of information on cooking in this outstanding cook book that's durably bound in loose-leaf form and indexed to perfection. It contains thousands of delicious recipes, calorie charts on all foods, oven charts, modern ideas on table settings and entertainments, and countless aids never included before in any cook book. $3.95 4. THE BETTY FURNESS WESTINGHOUSE COOK BOOK This new kind of basic cook book gives crystal-clear directions, defines cooking terms, explains cooking measurements, and offers many other hints that develop confidence in the kitchen. Besides thousands of unusual recipes, this book Includes a special feature, 'Tricks and Treats,'' which shows how to transform old favorites into new delights, and gives helpful short-cuts. $3.50 LB DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah

Fifty Beneficial Years — Back in 1905, the year Beneficial was founded, a young dental surgeon discovered novocaine. It is one of several local anaesthetics that make today's visit to the dentist a much more tolerable experience than it was fifty years ago..-- just one of many dental profession advances. OF 1905 - 1955 as 2 lake aT The past half century has brought many advances in insurance benefits, too. Beneficial's new "Planned Futures" program is an excellent example. Ask your Beneficial agent about the benefits of this program for your family. No obligation, of course.