EDITORIAL


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager JEANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah


Vol. XI MAY, 1924. No. 5
Mothers
A year ago in the Mother's edition of the Magazine, we talked of the Pioneer mother, of the Little Girl mother of France, and of the Modern Mother. This year we are going to speak of a group of women who have longed for motherhood, but whose. Hopes are, as yet, unfulfilled. We shall include in this editorial a poem written by a young woman whose husband was taken from her, through death, only a few weeks after their marriage. We are personally acquainted with her and know that she reveres her husband's memory, and holds him always in her heart of hearts. Nothing that we can say will tell the story of her disappointment as vividly as she tells it herself in her poem called My Dream Baby, which we include as part of this editorial:
O little babe, dream-baby of my heart, I've loved you, little one, so long. I saw you first when joy reigned in my soul; My husband-boy and I in fondest love Were planning for the future that should be, When, on a rosy ray from out our dreams, We saw you, babe, and claimed you for our own. But scarce the dream appeared till all was gone, And in the cruel loss you were forgot. Alone in anguish, all alone and crushed? I could not see you then, nor light, nor hope.
EDITORIAL 229
So months passed by unsunned by love or smile, And then one night I saw you in my dream. I knew you, baby, with your hair like gold, I knew your dear blue eyes so like my Love's, And in the lonely night, I held you close And felt your baby fingers on my cheek. I woke. You were not there?but, little babe, I see you yet and love you, want you near. I am a wife, though all alone I wait, And in my
breast there beats a mother-heart, And you, fair smiling one, are my dream-baby; You yet will be my own, somewhere, sometime. ?Bertha Roberts.