Mothers' Day By Florence Pyne Billings
It is mother's day tomorrow, And I'm thinking dear of thee; Though thy voice is hushed in slumber, And your face no more I see.
Yet in memory I can see you, Just as in the days of yore; When with eager childish footsteps, I would meet you at the door.
You would share my little troubles, And would join the joyous bliss, Of the little child that waited, For that mother's love and kiss.
Many years have passed, dear mother, Since I left my girlhood home; And God above has blessed me, With a family of my own.
And the love that I bestow them, Brings each day more clear to me, My duty as thy daughter I can ne'er pay back to thee;
For of all the golden treasures, None can pay thy tender care, God could not always be with me, So he placed a mother there.
And we feel it such a pleasure, In the lovely month of May; Just to meet and wear carnations And to call it Mother's Day.
For the world has many heroes, Some are old and some are young, But just praises to the mother In this world will ne'er be sung.
And as years roll by in number, I will ever love thy name, Though you sleep in silent slumber, From the earth of care and pain.
And I hope in the near future, We will choose some flower rare; That will represent our fathers, For both did do their share.
Though it's all so true to Mother, Would she like to be alone In all the praises given her? For both did make our home.
Let's unite the day together With carnations white and red, For all of those who bless us here, Or sleep among the dead.
MOTHER
I need the inspiration Of the gentle words she spoke; I need her faith to guide me And to light my vagrant way; The many prayers she offered, I need them every day; And how I long to live again Those morning days of life, So sweet with hours of gladness, So dewed with pearls of joy.
But alas, they all have vanished And I dream of them in vain, But memory brings them back to me, And all I know of her Comes back in sweetest vision On this dear Mothers' Day!
SUMMER SCHOOL FOR HALF A CENTURY
THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Has had one ideal? "To train Citizens and Teachers for the most complete Service and the highest type of Leadership."
Three complete Demonstration Schools in which problems may be worked out will be organized this summer.
THE 1924 SUMMER QUARTER BEGINS JUNE 9: THE SECOND TERM JULY 21 AT ASPEN GROVE
Faculty Members and Lecturers: Dr. David Snedden, Columbia. Dr. Walter R. Smith, Kansas. Dr. Merritt Y. Hughes, California. Dr. H. B. Wilson, Supt. of School, Berkeley, Cal. Dr. Horace Secrist, Northwestern. Dr. Raymond R. Frandsen, California. Dr. Adam S. Bennion, Supt. Church Schools. Dr. Henry C. Cowles, Chicago. Dr. T. W. Galloway, New York. Prof. W. A. McKeever, Lawrence, Kansas. Mrs. Dorothy Nyswander, California. Many Major Profs. of B. Y. U. And Others.
Write for Particulars.
Summer's Cool at Y Summer School.