Whom and Where Will You Marry? F1Ray L. Christiansen Assistant to the Council of the Twelve President, Salt Lake Temple wholesome couple, who after their marriage had come into the Church as converts, came recently with their family of young children to the temple to receive their endowments and_ to be sealed as a familv. 'They had come from a distant city. The husband made it known that his wife was suffering from a disease which ls considered incurable. It was a real struggle for her to gather sufficient strength for the temple services. But when she and her husband kneeled at the altar and were there sealed as husband and wife forever, a smile of deep satisfaction came over her beautiful countenance. Then when her young children, dressed in white, were conducted into the sealing room, she wept with joy. After the children had been sealed to their parents and the family were promised that if they were faithful, they should come forth in the resurrection as a family, she said quietly to them, "It doesn't matter now. We'll be together again and forever. It doesn't matter now!" Well, no doubt it didn't matter nearly so much as it would have if that family had not had the wisdom to act and not procrastinate; to take hold of their blessings while they were obtainable. The assurance that there would be a grand family reunion, even though some members of the family were taken by death, Page 644 gave that father and mother, as well as their children, the courage and the fortitude to meet the hazards of life., To be together forever with those you love most! What a blessing! What comfort! What anticipation! Sealing of families for time and eternity is one of the greatest blessings that ever was conferred upon the human family. Yet it is a principle which has always existed with God. If in this life only we have the hope of association with our companions and with our children, the purpose of rearing families would be comparatively meaningless. We are living not merely for the moment, but for eternity. Our temples, those costly structures which have been built in the past and which will continue to be built, are prepared primarily as sanctuaries wherein ordinances and powers may be given to make possible the perpetuity of home and family — wherein husband and wife and children may be bound in an everlasting union transcending the limitations of this mortal life. What a meaning this principle gives to marriage; to the home and to the family! 'To preserve the family relationship here and hereafter is, perhaps, the most important purpose of life, and of the gospel. That such relationships and associations hereafter should be possible is consistent WHOM AND WHERE WILL YOU MARRY? With reason. All righteous parents, all righteous people have a natural, inborn desire to associate forever with those they love. But it is consistent, also, to believe that we must conform to the laws and to the conditions that make such associations possible. God is a God of order; a God of law and not of confusion. For all who will have a blessing at my