Self-Reliance
DOROTHY CANFIELD FISHER
By Lais V. Hales.
Many mothers shut up in their various homes are doing their unprepared best for their children. Some of them have read books on child psychology. But they are inexperienced, having had no practice in the art of child raising. Too many of them are entirely occupied with the material care of their children and their home. They are hurried and distracted by innumerable details of their occupation. They do not have time to put into practice the sound principles that in theory they know very well. It is for such mothers, at such moments when child psychology is most needed, that Dorothy Canfield Fisher wrote, and re-issued fifteen years later in 1929, her sane, kind, helpful book, Self-Reliance.
The Self-Reliant Child
Modern discoveries in psychology indicate that self-reliance in children is most important. For the child who has not the soul of a parasite it is neither happy, natural, nor congenial to spend long and impressionable years dependent on others. Their self-reliance is bound up with their self-respect. "Many of the disagreeable doings of children, from bragging and bullying to teasing and cringing, from "showing off" to morbid shyness, are found to be their despairing, inexpert attempts to escape from inferiority to equality."
The cultivation of self-reliance is necessary in order that the child may meet life standing alone; in order that he may escape from the "modern dragon of the inferiority complex."
Mrs. Fisher realizes the vast amount of work and time required on the part of parents to help the child toward self-reliance. But nothing, she feels, is more worth while than an honest effort to improve the relations of parents and children. After once taking on the responsibility of children there is no going back. Regret is vain. Parents have burned their bridges behind them. The best program for them is to "do the best they can, and every day to make that best a little better."
The Finest Work
Parents should feel that there is nothing comparable to "the job of bringing up children, for interest, for unexpectedness, for sanity and laughter, and health and joy." A study of child psychology lessens the dangers of being a child. When a mother finds that authors do not agree on problems relating to children, let her summon to her aid her firm independent common sense. Much that Mrs. Fisher writes about, thoughtful parents know, but it is often a good thing to have them set down in a book, for "we are apt to forget in the bewilderment and fatigue and even disheartment which at times inevitably confuses a parent's mind."
The whole trend of American life seems to be away from the old, plainly visible, individual responsibility. The conveniences of modern
SELF-RELIANCE
life our children unthinkingly accept, thus falling into habits of inertia and moral flabbiness?habits that kill self-reliance and initiative.
Teach Self-Reliance
Self-reliance can be taught in early childhood. When your four-year-old is confronted with an obstacle, do not encourage him to come to you for help. Let him solve it himself with your guidance. The healthy infant is straining every nerve to "do for himself." No child is naturally passive." A little boy who at two does not ask to be lifted up on a sofa, but goes and gets a little stool to climb up and down, has set his feet on the path which leads surely and certainly to self-reliance.
As soon after five as possible the child should have some work of the household to do himself. This should be definite, regular work, light, quickly accomplished, and closely related to his own life. Do not pounce spasmodically on him to "run errands" etc. For he likes to feel that when he has done his day's work, his time is for the most part his own. Respect his little dignity, but by all means give him responsibility.
A six-year-old can sew on buttons, complete his toilet, decide which clothes he will wear, care for his play-room, consult the thermometer as a gauge as to the necessity for wraps, etc. Show him the relationship of these tasks to his life and he will work willingly. Steep his early life in an atmosphere colored with energetic, purposeful action. Surround him with raw materials that continually tempt him to do things for himself. "Children should spend as little of their precious youth as possible hankering after ready-made possessions, and as much time as possible creating for
157
themselves the things they desire." Give the child games, sleds, roller-skates, modeling clay, a carpenter's bench, crayons, tools?things either to create with or to use as means to learn dexterity.
Take Trips With Children
Every one of us to some degree is a Robinson Crusoe. The parents should go Robinson Crusoeing together. "Family hikes" branch out many new interests and influences, leading toward the habit of self-reliance and the goodly habit of comradeship between parent and child. A boy whose family "has always been his gang" needs and will seek no other."
Children will have social life whether we like it or not, and the "best we can do is to try to color their social life with wholesomeness, spontaneity, and true light-heartedness, rather than with vanity, competition, self-seeking and egotism." Train them not to depend for their social life on the cumbrous social machinery but to create it themselves. Let their parties be as spontaneous as possible with the children doing the work and arranging. Helplessness and lack of resource and initiative in the matter of pleasant social intercourses are likely to be punished by more or less complete isolation, which makes an adult most unhappy, to say nothing of a child.
Teach Them How To Spend
Children should be taught financial self-reliance and responsibility. Money-spending is quite as important as money-getting. Let them in on the discussion as to the apportioning of the family income. Take them occasionally on well-regulated buying trips. As the child grows older, and has absorbed the family
158
atmosphere of systematic and well-proportioned expenditures, he can be trusted with an allowance of his own. Knowing from such experience that buying is one of the vital processes in modern life, he will never fall into the slip-shod method of hand-to-mouth buying.
Mrs. Fisher feels that allowances large or small will do no good unless the child has before him a daily example for forethought in expenditure. The key to the situation is the budget system. With it, no matter how rigid the economy needs, there are harmony and responsibility. Continued experience with real cash and its exasperating way of vanishing into dentists' bills, etc., is a great inculcator of reasonableness in the matter of money. The one thing to be avoided is the practice of doling out irregular additions to the child's
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
allowances, under pressure from the child.
These and many other important issues in the home are discussed by Mrs. Fisher in Self-Reliance. The latter part of the book is devoted to the relationship between the schools and the parents of the children within the schools. Mrs. Fisher is always sane and helpful. Her decisions are wise, thoughtful, practical. Self-Reliance offers explicit help to all members of the family and can well occupy a prominent place on the shelf of reference books in the home; it is a companion volume to The Charm Of A Well Mannered Home, which we discussed last month. Parents who read these books will realize the stupidity of that oft repeated parental wail? "I can't do anything with my children."
[Advertisement for Utah Power & Light Co.]
The Quest
By Bertha A. Kleinman
The happiness for which your life is quest Is neither here, nor there, nor east, nor west; You cannot find it all the world around, For happiness is never to be found; Who finds himself and his capacity Beneath the false conventionality Of self to Self?to him it shall befall? The reach, the flight, the substance of it all. Who finds his place amid the surge and press, That other lives their fullness shall express, Has found it all, the entity, the best? Lo! Happiness has then encrowned his quest.