[Vol10 | January 1923 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial, Serving in a Humble Sphere]
EDITORIAL 39 dramatic act, to serve humanity in some prosaic way, does not always receive the enthusiastic response that a stirring challenge receives. But, by the continuous performance of certain commonplace acts, humanity is served just as truly as by. One dramatic self-sacrificing incident. Anyone who earnestly endeavors to better the conditions of a community, and who is sincerely solicitous of the welfare of his fellow-man, is as deserving of the plaudits of the world as is the hero of a battle. Both give their lives in the service of God and his children. There are opportunities to render humble service in almost any walk of life. There are, among us, certain unpretentious characters who, in their commonplace activities, are real benefactors of humanity. There is the doctor who, without thought of material recompense, can be relied upon to answer the call of the suffering, even though it means a long, difficult trip in the dead of night. There is the cooperative business man who has a real concern for the health, living conditions, and welfare of his employees. There is the school man who devotes his years in searching for truth, and in teaching the youth of his time, often scorning more lucrative positions. There is the lawyer who devotes his time to the administration of justice, and who is willing to renounce a remunerative case, in order to defend the cause of the exploited and oppressed. A beautiful type of service is rendered by fathers and mothers who have an infinite capacity to subordinate self and to work for the advancement of their families. In our Church there are hundreds of active members who give hours of willing, efficient, volunteer service, in conducting the work of the various organizations. There is the missionary who sacrifices personal desires and plans to serve in the cause of righteousness. There is the bishop whose time and energy are whole-heartedly given to the members of his ward, in guiding and directing both their spiritual and temporal affairs. There. Is the ward Relief Society president, who stands ever ready to assist her bishop in caring for the sick, visiting the distressed, and planning for the welfare of the community.  The giving of such service, undramatic, prosaic, and even irksome, often requires a braver heart and a more courageous spirit than does the service required in -a crisis. It is often a temptation to abandon the constant, unrecognized toil in the sphere of the commonplace, for the more alluring. Worldly activities. But he who is in earnest in his desire to serve humanity seeks to develop a stalwart spirit, a dauntless courage, and a strong faith, so that he may continue faithfully in his humble and unhonored labors.. At the beginning of the new year when we review the
