[Vol10 | January 1923 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: Benjamin Franklin]

LESSON III Literature (Third Week in March) BENJAMIN FRANKLIN Benjamin Franklin lived in both the Colonial and Revolutionary periods of our history. While Jonathan Edwards, the noted Puritan divine, was writing and preaching seven-part sermons, Franklin was composing brief, pithy proverbs that would catch -his reader's eye and fasten themselves upon his reader's mind. Franklin's spirit was very ? different from that of Edwards BENJAMIN FRANKLIN the visions he caught, and the ideas he was interested in broadcasting and promoting, were the very opposite of those that appealed to Edwards. True to the traditions of the Puritans, the great preacher had kept the eyes of the people riveted on God, heaven, and spiritual entities; while Franklin, only three years younger, caught a glimpse of the vast possibilities of life in the material world and urged the development of natural resources. In other words, Franklin's philosophy of life asked, "Why not have a bit of heaven here on earth?" Mr. Payne has condensed the main facts of Franklin's early life in such admirable fashion that we include his paragraph without alteration: "The facts of Franklin's life are well known. The eleventh and youngest son of a soap boiler and tallow candler, he was born in Boston, January 17, 1706. He was sent to school during parts of two years and then apprenticed to the printer's trade under his eldest brother, owner of one of the earliest American newspapers, The New England Courant. Franklin had little formal education, but he was a close student and a careful, tireless reader; and naturally in his trade of printer he soon acquired a good, practical English education. He wrote some brief essays in imitation of Addison's Spectator papers, a volume of which he found in his father's library. During the night he slipped them under the door of his brother's printing shop, and 
 was pleased to find that his 'compositions were deemed wortiy of publication, and that they attracted considerable favorable comment when they appeared in print. "Dissatisfied with the treatment he was receiving at the hands of his brother, Franklin, having been accidentally freed from the bonds of his apprenticeship by a legal ruse of his brother's, ran' away when he was seventeen years old, passed through New York, and landed in Philadelphia, where he found employment in his trade. Everyone knows the story of his ludicrous entry into Philadelphia, as it is-described in the Autobiography. Franklin seems to take keen delight in telling how he walked down Market Street, his pockets stuffed with his extra shirt and stockings, a big puffy roll under each arm, while he was eating a third roll, thus provoking, by his comical appearance, the laughter of Miss Deborah Read, the young woman who afterward became his wife." This is the record of his early life; his later attainments will be brought out as we examine his many and varied activities. He died in 1790 at the ripe age of 84. Franklin was in all probability the most versatile man of the Eighteenth century, consequently he is not unfrequently styled, printer, inventor, statesman, scientist, patriot, philosopher, philanthropist, and writer. He is styled printer because while in England he succeeded in making a study of the most advanced methods of printing practiced by the English. Returning to Philadelphia after a sojourn of eighteen months he bought the Pennsylvania Gazette, and began a publishing business on his own account. He is known as an inventor because he invented the Franklin stove, well known in his day; also the lightning rod. He is classed among scientists because of the knowledge he gave to the world concerning electricity. For his investigations in this field he was held in great esteem, both at home and abroad. Particularly did the European nations value this contribution, and for this reason bestowed upon him many honors of marked distinction. He is revered as a statesman and a patriot because he is the. Only man born in America whose signature is attached to the Declaration of Independence, the Treaty of Alliance with France, the Treaty of Peace with England, and the Constitution of the United States. For eighteen years he did service for the Colonists in England, and for several years as the representative of the new government at the French court he was sought and admired as few Americans have ever been sought and, admired in Europe. Any tourist visiting France today may know something of. the esteem in which the French hold him, for despite all the upheavals that have taken place in Paris there is still a street that bears his name, and in the beautiful palace at Versailles his statue is yet to be found. When he returned from France he was chosen governor of the state of Pennsylvania and later elected to the Constitutional Convention of 1787. In James Madison's Journal of the Constitutional Convention, we find the following note relative to Franklin's signing the Declaration of Independence. ''Doctor Franklin looking towards the president's chair, at the back of which a rising sun happened to be painted, observed to a few members near him that painters had found it difficult to distinguish in their art a rising from a setting sun. 'I have,' said he, often and often, in the course of the session, and the vicissitudes of my hopes and fears as to its issue, looked at that behind the president without being able to tell whether it was rising or setting, but now at length I have the happiness to know that it is a rising and not a setting sun." He is accepted as a philosopher because of the proverbs of his Almanacs. He has been charged with being too practical and too materialistic in his philosophy; however that may be, his philosophy certainly acted as a balance for the philosophy of Edwards among the Puritans, and Woolman among the Quakers. He was and still is held in regard as a philanthropist because he would not take out patents on his inventions, preferring to give them to the public without restrictions. What we value particularly at the present time is that he founded the Philadelphia Library and the Academy which finally evolved into the University of Pennsylvania. He also founded the popular magazine known as the Saturday Evening Post. Closely allied to his philanthropic work was his work for civic betterment. As a result of his activities the streets of Philadelphia were paved, a police department and a fire department established, and a state militia organized. Franklin is held in repute as a man of letters because of his contributions to American literature. Mr. Page has aptly said, "Although Franklin continued to write under his own as well as under various assumed names, and on a variety of subjects, big and little, it was not until the appearance of his Almanac that he became something of an influence in the colony." Franklin's own account has never been equalled by any who have attempted to tell the tale, consequently we insert for our readers his own story: "In 1732 I first published my almanac under the name of Richard Saunders; it was continued by me about twenty-five years and commonly called, Poor Richard's Almanac. I endeavored 
 to make it both entertaining and useful, and it accordingly caine to be in such demand that I reaped considerable profit from it, vending annually near ten thousand. And observing that it was generally read, scarce any neighborhood in the province being without it, I considered it as a proper vehicle for conveying instruction among the common people, who bought scarcely any other books. I therefore filled all the little spaces that occurred between the remarkable days in the calendar with proverbial sentences, chiefly such as inculcated industry and frugality as the means of procuring wealth, and thereby securing virtue; it being more difficult for a man in want to act always honestly as, (to use here one of these proverbs) 'it is hard for an empty sack to stand upright.' " These maxims were not original, they incorporate the wisdom of the ages; but the phraseology, the thing that carried them over, was Franklin's own. We include a group of them in the lesson, knowing that many of them will be familiar. 1. Be ashamed to catch yourself idle. 2. Drive thy business, let not that drive thee. 3. Light strokes fell great oaks. 4, Three removes are as bad as a fire. 5. He that by the plow would thrive, himself must either hold or drive. 6. Ata great pennyworth, pause awhile. 7. Plow deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep. 8. A plowman on his legs is higher than a gentleman on his knees. 9. If you would know the value of money, go and try to borrow some; for he who goes a borrowing goes a sorrowing. 10. Creditors are a superstitious sect, great observers of set days and times. We conclude with Page's comment on the Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin, which to our mind is well deserved. "Franklin's own story of his life to 1757 is one of the greatest biographies of the world. Written in the form of a letter to his son, for the latter and his descendants only, and with no thought of publication, it has found a secure place among the world's classics. It is a simple, straightforward account of the author's rise by his own efforts from 'poverty and obscurity to a state of affluence and some degree of celebrity in the world.' PROBLEMS AND QUESTIONS 1. What four great state documents had Franklin the distinction of signing? 2. The almanacs contain many proverbs not given in lesson, such as, "A stitch in time saves nine." Let each member of the class collect and give as many as she can. It might be a good thing to feature in some way the woman who collects the largest number of Franklin's maxims. 3. Select from those collected a group that you think would tend to make people prosperous and thrifty. 4, Select a group that you think would stimulate industry. 5. What were the things Franklin did to improve living conditions in the city of Philadelphia? 6. When Franklin was at work among' the English printers they called him the "Water American." How does this instance go to prove that Franklin's habits of life were ahead of his time? 7. In the majority of our communities it will perhaps not be difficult to obtain a copy of Franklin's Autobiography. Where it can be obtained, read the account of Franklin's entrance into the City of Philadelphia; where it cannot be obtained, review what the lesson says. REFERENCES Cambridge History of American Literature. Readings from American Literature, Calhoun and MacAlarney. Library of American Literature, Stedman Hutchinson, Vol. III contains 24 selections. Some chapters especially recommended from the almanacs: The Way to Wealth or Poor Richard Improved. Autobiography abstracts: Part I, Chapter I. Franklin's Early Interest in Books. Part I, Chapter II. Seeking His Fortune.