[Vol10 | January 1923 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes From the Field
Amy Brown Lyman
Northern States Mission.
A reorganization of the Peru branch Relief Society, of the Northern Indiana conference, was effected recently. The former officers were given a hearty vote of thanks for their faithful work in the Relief Society. The new officers are: Frieda Schmidt, president; Louise B. Rentzel and Martha E. Rentzel, counselors; Lucy Schmidt, secretary-treasurer; Virginia Crim,
PERU BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
organist; Mattie Crim, class leader. A picture of this Society is printed herewith.
At one of the meetings a special program was given at which a teachers' demonstration was given, which portrayed the effect of earnest and prayerful teaching. The motto of this organization is: "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." James 1:27.
Mt. Ogden Stake.
The new Mt. Ogden stake Relief Society is fully organized with thirteen stake board members. The six wards are completely organized and are officered by capable and energetic wo-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 33
men. Since the organization of the stake in May there has been an increase of 51 members in the stake. For the summer work, a special study was made of the Pearl of Great Price. Patriarch Thomas A. Shreeve gave three lectures to some of the wards which had arranged to meet jointly. Two social outings have been held during the summer in connection with the Weber stake. Two teachers' conventions have been held in cooperation with the priesthood. The ward teachers and the Relief Society visiting teachers met together and the Relief Society board members and ward presidents assisted the priesthood in carrying out the program.
Through the courtesy of Mrs. Bertha J. Eccles, a member of the board, it has been possible to arrange a sewing headquarters which has been given the name of the Commissary. Mrs. Eccles arranged for the Relief Society to use a three-room modern apartment for this work. At the opening, a service was held at which the president of the stake, Robert R. Burton, and his counselors, were in attendance.
Snowflake Stake.
Very successful ward conferences have been held in the Snowflake stake. Special instructions were given, and the value and need of regular lesson work was emphasized. A Magazine subscription campaign has been conducted with a resulting increase in the number of subscribers.
Logan Stake.
On October 22, 1922, the Logan stake Relief Society was reorganized. The following officers were released: Ellen L. Barber, president; Ida Quinney, first counselor; Ollie L. Bjorkman, second counselor; Mary W. Smith, secretary. The outgoing officers were praised for their splendid service, and a vote of thanks was extended to them. Mrs. Barber has been president of the Relief Society of the Logan stake since its organization, and prior to that time she was a member of the Relief Society board of the Cache stake. The officers selected and sustained are: Bessie G. Ballard, president; Ida Quinney, first counselor; Bernice L. Christensen, second counselor; Pearl C. Sloan, secretary.
Weber Stake.
The members of the Weber stake Relief Society entertained the aged men and women at the County Infirmary, at Roy, on Tuesday afternoon, October 31. President Aggie H. Stevens presided and the various board members assisted her in making the occasion a pleasant one. Those who were confined to their


beds were visited in their rooms, and the others gathered in the chapel where a pleasing program was rendered. The community singing, at which old favorite melodies were featured, was especially appreciated by the elderly men and women. The county commissioners arranged for automobiles for the Relief Society women and they expressed appreciation for the visit.
34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE