[Vol10 | January 1923 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Nurse Aids Course]

Relief Society Nurse Aids' Course
Emma A. Empey
For the benefit of those who are interested in the Nurse Aids' Course at the L. D. S. Hospital, it has been decided to give in the Magazine some definite information regarding the course itself and the requirements for those who desire to take up the work.
It will be remembered that on September 1, 1920, the General Board of the Relief Society, through the courtesy of the General Authorities of the Church, inaugurated a class for the training of Nurse Aids, in connection with the L. D. S. Hospital, the course to cover a period of one year?eleven months in the Hospital and one month to be given in charity nursing in the home ward. The plan was the culmination of the efforts of

the General Board to bring about a cooperative arrangement with the L. D. S. Hospital, whereby the Relief Society students might receive training in the Hospital. It was realized that this would be an innovation in hospital procedure, but it was felt that great good would be accomplished by the arrangement without any real sacrifice of standards by the L. D. S. Hospital.
While this was a new experiment and the students were in the beginning compelled to meet with the prejudice of doctors and nurses, it is gratifying to all concerned that the class has been a success and seems now to be firmly established; also that much of the prejudice has been overcome.
Twenty students are allowed by the Hospital yearly for this course; this number being all that can be accommodated. The first class, which entered the Hospital in 1920, was graduated a year later. The second class was graduated in 1922, and at the present time there are seventeen students in the Hospital, some of whom will complete their course in the near future.
The students who have entered the Hospital for this course have been a credit to the ward Relief Societies which recommended them and to the Relief Society as a whole. They have, in the main, been well qualified for the work and have made a good record. It has been a great disappointment, however, that a number of those who have entered training have not been physically able to take the course. As a result some of the students have had to receive medical and surgical treatment at the Hospital, at expense and inconvenience to the individuals themselves, and to the training school; while others after a few weeks in training have had to give up the work altogether and return home.
While it is true that all students upon entering are required to present a certificate of health, experience has proved that the health examinations have not been as thorough as they should be. To give up the work after having entered the Hospital means a great disappointment to the student as well as an unnecessary expenditure of money for uniforms and other needed clothing, railroad fare, books, etc. It is, therefore, advised and urged that the physical examination be a thorough one. If the examination reveals ailments which need treatment they should be remedied before a certificate is given.
Requirements and Instructions Relief Society Nurse Aids' Course:
Length of Course: One year?eleven months at L. D. S. Hospital, and one month in home ward.
Time of Entrance: Applicants may enter in two groups as follows: August?10 students; January?10 students.
Age of Acceptance: 18 to 35 years.
Education Requirements: At least an eighth grade education or the equivalent thereof.
Tuition: There is no tuition charge for the course; the only requirement is thirty days' charity nursing at the end of the course.
Uniforms: All students will be required to wear uniforms while on duty; the uniform to consist of a waist and skirt of gray and white gingham, a large white apron and bib, and collar. Plain, comfortable shoes with rubber heels are also required.
Books and Nurse Equipment: Each girl will be expected to buy her own books and equipment. The cost of these will be approximately as follows: 1 thermometer, $1.00; 1 hypodermic syringe, $1.75; 1 pair scissors, $1.75; 1 watch, $3.20; books, $12.
Allowances: Each student in the Nurse Aids' Course is given an allowance of $5 per month to meet incidental expenses.
Application: Regular application forms should be used by those desiring to take the course. These may be had by writing the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, No. 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Application should be accompanied by a recommendation of character from her Relief Society ward president, and a certificate of health from a physician. If the applicant is accepted full instructions, together with samples of goods for uniforms, will be mailed.
List of Clothing and Equipment Required for Students Entering L. D. S. Hospital for Nurse Aids' Course
4 uniforms; 12 aprons; 12 bibs; 6 Betsy collars; 1 kimono; 3 nightgowns; 3 suits underwear; 4 pairs cotton stockings; 2 pairs shoes?black or white; books; equipment; 1 thermometer; 1 hypodermic syringe; 1 pair scissors; 1 watch.
Other Clothing Suggested
1 suit suitable for spring and fall wear; 2 blouses; 1 winter coat; hat and gloves; 1 dress, suitable for best wear; 2 petticoats (sateen or gingham?both will wash).
All students should be possessed of the above clothing upon entering the Hospital. The books and equipment, however, should not be purchased until after entrance, with the exception of a watch. In addition to the clothing and articles listed, students will require from $25 to $50 during the eleven months for upkeep of this clothing, etc., and other incidentals. The student also receives an allowance of $5 a month from the Hospital.
Uniforms
Waist and Skirt Dress Material: Use gray and white striped gingham (sam-

ple may be secured from General Office). This material may be obtained from Cohn Dry Goods Company. Five yards required for each dress. Shrink well before cutting.
Dress Pattern: Ladies' Home Journal Pattern No. 1596 is recommended?price 30c. This may be obtained from Cohn Dry Goods Company, 222 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Skirt and waist should be made separate.
Skirt: Four gore, slightly gathered all the way around with two inch waist-band and placket at left side of front gore. Length: six inches from floor with a three-inch hem. Place pocket 6x7 inches, finished, on right hand of skirt.
Waist: Plain shirt waist same as pattern, except that the sleeve should be elbow length, finished with a two inch band with stripes running around, and neck should be V shaped to fit collar. There should be no pocket on waist.
Aprons Material: Use 72-inch Indian Head sheeting. This may be purchased from Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City, at 70c a yard. Shrink before cutting.
Pattern: Apron requires 1 width of goods. It should have three gores as shown in diagram. Front gore 1 yd. wide, side gores 1/4 yd. each. Join raw edges to front gore with French or felled seam. Gather into 2-inch band which extends one inch beyond gathers on both sides, and button in middle of back. Apron to have 3-inch hem and must come even with bottom of skirt. Ordinary buttons and buttonholes may be used, but an adjustable pearl button, size 1/2 in., for uniforms and aprons is preferable to the sewed on button. When this is used tiny eyelets should be worked with buttonhole stitch to receive loop of button which is fastened in.
[DIAGRAM showing 3/4 apron appears in original]
Bibs Material: Same as that used for apron. Bib should be separate from apron. Pattern may be had at General Office. Straps should cross and fasten with buttons to band of apron, two inches from middle of back. (Twenty yards of 72-inch Indian Head sheeting will make twelve aprons and twelve bibs.)
Other Items
Collars: Betsy stiff collars, price 35c, may be purchased from Keith-O'Brien Dry Goods Company, State and Broadway, Salt Lake City.
Kimono: To be made of washable material. Figured cotton crepe is good.
Shoes: Black or white. Must have rubber heels. (Special attention should be given to shoes?see that they are comfortable?good broad soles and medium heel). At least two pairs are required for general duty so that same pair is not worn two days successively.
Jewelry: No jewelry is allowed to be worn while nurses are on duty except a watch which is worn under the bib or on the wrist.
For further information write to General Secretary.
QUALITY VS. QUANTITY LIVING
Dr. R. Norman Foster, for fifty years a physician in Chicago, died in California at the age of 90. Ten years ago he gave his formula for reaching old age. Dr. Foster's life was evidently both pleasant to himself and profitable to others. In too many instances the purpose of life seems to be entirely how long one may live, not how much. In the best sense, however, life should be measured not by how long but how well we live. Dr. Foster's rules of correct living are all based upon moderation, and, as they allowed him quality as well as quantity of life, may be worth repeating:
Do not eat too much. Do not work too hard. Do not work too little?better to work for nothing than be idle. Do work for the common good; all other is destructive. Take just what sleep experience proves right. Use recreation, not for its own sake, but for new vigor. Do not always be in a hurry. Dress first for comfort; then for style. Avoid worry; it enfeebles mind and body.