Downstairs Store ACI Nleed a Tranquil Hour Wanda G. Nielson I need a while beside a mountain stream— No moment—but a long and tranquil hour, Time to see the cliff with crannied flower, The spruce and aspen, and the sun's pure beam; Till mountain, sky, and water make a balanced whole, And the picture has etched itself into my soul. I need to watch the eager, plunging fall; The churn of foam and water deep below; The dashing against rocks, the quiet pools; the flow, Full-bodied, swift, along the gray cliff's wall; Till leaping, pausing, gliding, is one dramatic whole, And the rhythm has rolled itself into my soul. I need to hear the thunder in the roar Of falls, the laughter of ripples thinly flowing, The bass-viol undertones of volume growing, And the soft lap-lapping along the mossy shore; Till the booming, babbling, gurgling, makes one symphonic whole, And the music has sung itself into my soul. I need a tranquil hour in which to see A mountain stream, and find serenity. The Cover: Stela "E"' Quirigua (an Ancient Mayan City), Guatemala, Central America. Such monuments at Quirigua are supposed to be time markers. 'These monoliths are sculptured on two sides with human figures, and the other two sides are covered with columns of hieroglyphics recording time. Photograph courtesy United Fruit Company — Compania Agricola de Guatemala Submitted by Gladys K. Wagner Frontispiece Photograph: The Grand Teton, Wyoming, Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar I was so impressed with the article "Words to Live By," in the February issue, by Josie B. Bay. I was feeling very depressed the day I read the article, and it made me understand a lot of things, and it enlightened my mind so very much. It seems that each article I read solves a problem for me, so truly I can say that receiving a copy of the Magazine is a blessing for me, and I am so _ thankful that I have the opportunity to receive such a Magazine. Also, thanks for the article "How We Conduct the Family Hour in Our Home" by Helen S. Gardner (March 1956). I have never held Family Hour in our home yet, but now that my baby is a year old, I want to begin, so that he will grow up to know what it is and also to get me in practice so that we will never forget to have it. —Mrs. LaVoyce Evans Hooks, 'Texas I so much enjoy reading the letters, lovely poems, and stories in The Relief Society Magazine. Thanks always to my daughter-in-law Mrs. Alene Summers for sending me the subscription. Her kindness has been greatly appreciated. —Mrs. L. C. Summers Klamath Falls, Oregon I am not a member of the Church, but have received so much comfort, encouragement, and enjoyment from The Relief Society Magazine that I want to be sure of receiving all copies. Please renew my subscription. —Sarah A. Foster Washington, Illinois Just a few words of thanks for The Relief Society Magazine. I really enjoy reading it and learn so much from it. I neglect my work when I get my copy the first of each month till I have read it. I am eighty-three years young. —Elizabeth Clendennen San Angelo, Texas Page 348 The Relief Society Magazine has been a great stimulant for so many women in their interest to learn and work for this great plan of salvation. 'Through faithful diligence and growing strength, we are combined with two other groups, and by keeping in complete harmony with the Priesthood, we have been able to build a new chapel at Naturita, Colorado. We all hope the circulation of the Magazine will continue to grow and reach more homes, enabling more people to learn and enjoy its true purpose. —Mrs. Delta N. Williams Uravan, Colorado We are pleased to know that the sisters in the mission are taking a greater interest in the Magazine and hope that there will be a still greater number who will subscribe during the coming year. It was worth the price of the Magazine to read the article "Children in the Scriptures" by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. In the December 1955 issue. —Nora C. Duncan President South African Mission Relief Society I read The Relief Society Magazine thoroughly. It has enlarged and strengthened my testimony to a large degree. 'The study of this inspirational little Magazine has made me seek to study the gospel in many fields. May God bless you in your work. —Elene Wiltbank Whetten Colonia Juarez Chih., Mexico I thoroughly enjoy my Relief Society Magazine and am impatient each month for its arrival. I especially enjoy the poetry. Besides my art work, poetry is to me like beautiful music. The effect it has on my inner being is one of the necessities of my life. —Adell R. Palmer South Jordan, Utah

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spatford 

Vol. 43 JUNE 1956 No. 6 
Contents 
SPECIAL FEATURES "A Thing of Beauty'' — Restoration of the Heber C. Kimball Home MEA INGUNF OO c-cccensscceseseosocensecencsceacsecesensnnensnareucccauenentastorensesessuseeesacossoerensvccresceresChristine H. Robinson 350 The Central American Mission 22.0.2 cccccceccsececceeceecesecceeoeesetueeececeseceseneeseceneeececeeesseneePreston R. Nibley 362 Our Homes and the Flag 2.2.2 cieecceccesceeeceneccnsececccenecececeeseesseesseeesceetececessnsneeeceeesBlanche B. Stoddard 364 Appreciation for the Singing Mothers.00 ccecscsecessceseenceeeneeecoceeseecesessecesseeeeenecseneceecesDavid O. McKay 366 Virtue Is Its Own Reward ooieii. Eceicccccessecscecceceecceceescecseeeseseceseceneeaceceseuscecessesseaevensnsssnsesnecsnsensesessnsensesessneseeeecensesene 377 Diamonds and People oon. N. CeieccceiceececccessceseneceneeceeeeeesecenceeeesceeceececaecccsenoeeeaseneensaseeeeeeaesseececnseeneesCelia Luce 376 Cliff Homes of the Ancients 22 ceeececeeeceeceeeeeeeeee aNell Murbarger 384 The Testimony Plant 22 cece ceeceececcceceeenccecenceneeeesencensessnaassetanneccssensnseneeeseceeessNancy M. Armstrong 414 FICTION Heart's Bounty — Chapter 1 ooiiececccccccceccceeeceeccceececeeeceececesseececeneceesesencasnceeeeeeneeeecsDeone R. Sutherland 367 When Mother's Reputation Was at Stake ooo eececccee cee cceecseeteeneneeneereeeeesNedra Stone Nickell 381 There Is Still Time — Chapter 5 (Conclusion) -2 2. CccccceeceeeeeeeeceneeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesMargery S. Stewart 391 GENERAL FEATURES Ferrer Car Petr co. Cc nn. Acecsencecenneocscesnocsenensecuceneeecsecoes nonce snensencnseaccouescescccccceseanreuarcorscseccsenasneseeecesuesansannesnsensesness 348 RMN LCOS FIO nna ccccccncececcecvecconsnccesseneneecnnnasesececcecauseneneaseeecenssnossnnsnacssacsusnecunuescecseasennnesuaeecseenereneses SO 372 Woman's Sphere oon. EceeeecenceccecenncenececensneeeeosenacenseuseesnscestecnenceceusceeceesesseteceerscaseneneceneesRamona W. Cannon 373 Editorial: The 126th Annual Church Conference 00 eee ceeecceeceeceeeeeeeeeee eeeMarianne C. Sharp 374 Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings 20.0 2 2cccccccccccecccececceeeceeeeecececceseceeseeeececeeessesececeesensersceserasenneses 376 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 2 cceeeceeeceeeeeeneesMargaret C. Pickering 398 FEATURES FOR THE HOME | Recipes From Central Americat oo.. O cioceecctcececccecscececcencececcceeesececceceenceescceeseessnneceeeeneeesGladys K. Wagner 378 Make Children's Clothes Economically and Professionally 20..00.2. CeccccecssceeseoesIvie Huish Jones 387 Emily Chadwick Zaugg Makes Many Quilts oo.. Eecceccccecceceececeesecceeeceeceeseescesecsenecesesseocsnenscctscanaesassnenennnees397 Early American Hooked Rug DeSign o0 eceecceecesceceeseecceceeoeeecesceeeceeeeeseseceeneeceeeesElizabeth Williamson 415 LESSON DEPARTMENT — PREVIEWS FOR 1956-57 Theology — Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon 0 0.00 Leland H. Monson 403 Visiting Teacher Messages — Book of Mormon Gems of Truth oo Leone O. Jacobs 405 Work Meeting — Food Preparation and Service 22 eecccceceecceceeeeeeseeneseeeeoveeeseesRhea H. Gardner 407 Literature — Shakespeare in Our Lives ooo cceececceeccscenceneeeseseeceeeceeeeeeseceeeceeeseeesBriant S. Jacobs 408 Music for Lessons on Shakespeare ooo. Eeeiecccecccsseeeeeeeeeenseeeceeeceseeeeeeesseeeseesnsssseceeeeesceeecesereene 410 Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life 22.0000 etcteeeeeeceeeeeeeeneeeeeeJohn Farr Larson 410 Notes on the Authors of the Lessons oo cceeccssesesccesceecsesesenecseecceeeeecesesececesensnsveseesessecenseescesssseneensececes 412 POETRY I Need a Tranquil Hour — Frontispiece oo ce cecceceeccececeeeceececencessccenvereseeecereeesWanda G. Nielson 347 The Rod, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 361; Dream Mirage, by Grace Wilson, 371; My Faith in God, by Alice Lyman Welling, 380; Long-Lost Friends, by Maude Rubin, 380; My Garden, by Catherine E. Berry, 386; Mortar for the Miles, by Verla R. Hull, 390; On a Sleepless Summer Night, by Beulah Huish Sadleir, 390; To a Friend, by Marvel Crookston, 397; The Manti Temple, by Gertrude yi ae 402; Sleeping Love, by Gertrude Kovan, 413; An Orchard, by Christie Lund Coles, page. 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

"A Thing of Beauty"' Restoration of the Heber C. Kimball Home in Nauvoo Christine H. Robinson Member, General Board of Relief Society A thing of beauty is a joy forever; Its loveliness increases; it will never Pass into nothingness; but will keep A bower quiet for us, and a sleep Full of sweet dreams. HESE immortal words, penned by John Keats in 1817, might well have been written about the once beautiful and prosperous city of Nauvoo. Even though time and decay have had a ravishing effect upon the life of this historic community, still, "it will never pass into nothingness; but will keep a bower quiet for us, and a sleep full of sweet dreams." The history and character of nations and individuals are revealed primarily in three ways. We learn about them through historical writings, through traditions and customs, and through the material things which they leave to their posterity. Among these material things are the homes in which they lived. Throughout the ages the home and its furnishings provide a key to a people's way of life, and to the degree of civilization attained. The home, probably more than anything else that an individual builds, sets forth in concrete form his basic ideals, character, and personality. In the recorded history of our early pioneer leaders, we read that they were a fearless people, possessed with the faith and courage of the prophets of old. We read that Page 350 they were a sensitive people of refinement and good taste who sought after cultural things and the happy life, believing in the principle that, "Man is that he might have joy." In building their homes in Nauvoo, these stalwart pioneers revealed that they possessed these characteristics. Although most of their beautiful homes have long since been destroyed, yet, from the few that still remain, we can see bountiful evidence of their faith, courage, refinement, and good taste. THE Heber C. Kimball home, one of the few pioneer residences which today still stand in Nauvoo, is a remarkable example of how the builder puts the stamp of his character and personality in the thing he builds. 'This beautiful home is a testimony and a monument to the courage, industry, and enterprise of this great Latter-day Saint leader. The Heber C. Kimball home ls probably one of the few homes ever built into which an individual poured loving care and skill while knowing that he would have the privilege of living in it for only a short time. It is recorded that when this great leader first entered Nauvoo—or Commerce as it was "A THING OF BEAUTY" then called—he made this prophetic remark: "It is a very pretty place but not a long abiding home of the saints." Notwithstanding this conviction, Heber C. Kimball immediately applied his great skill and power to help build the small village of Commerce into the beautiful city of Nauvoo it was soon to become. After finding shelter for his family, he purchased five acres of dense woodland and in one day cut sufficient logs to build his family a small, temporary home. He moved his family into this home in late August 1839. Almost immediately thereafter, on the 18th of September, accompanied by his good friend Brigham Young, he left for his second mission to England. After almost two years in the mission field he returned home to Nauvoo. In a letter to the editor of the Millennial Star, Brother Kimball wrote: We landed in Nauvoo on the ist of July.... When we got in sight of Nauvoo we were surprised to see what improvements had been made since we left home. There were not more than thirty buildings in the city when we left about two years ago, but at this time there are twelve hundred, and hundreds of others are in progress which will be finished soon. You will recollect that when we built our houses in the woods there was not a house within a mile of us. Now the place, wild as it was at that time, is converted into a thickly populated village.... The whole country for many miles is cultivated with corn, wheat, potatoes, and all kinds of produce; it looks as though the blessings of God rested upon the crops of this region, and it is noticed by the inhabitants that come from other parts of the country, or counties around this place. The blessings of God rest on_ this people..,, There is every effort made 351 to complete the House of the Lord; they devote every tenth day for that purpose. It is going to be very magnificent.... Our enemies began to threaten us, for you know they cannot bear to see us prosper. T was at this time, soon after his return from his second British mission, that Heber C. Kimball started the construction of his impressive home which, in that day, surely would have been judged magnificent. In due course the home was completed and now bears a stone tablet upon which is inscribed, "H. C. K. — 1845." The home is situated on a gentle slope about one-half mile from the Mississippi River and approximately the same distance from the temple site. It is built on a corner plot and, as was typical of the residences in that day, is bordered on two sides with a white picket fence. Among the few remaining residences still standing in Nauvoo, there is no such thing as a typical Nauvoo house. Each structure has its own individuality and personality. Yet, each of the important homes expresses the existing architectural style of the day — namely Modified Georgian, or Federal, as it is often called. The Heber C. Kimball home, although it has its own unique style, is a fine example of Modified Georgian architecture. It, like many of the homes in Nauvoo, is constructed of mellow, tawny red bricks which were made locally in Nauvoo's oven kilns. In planning its architecture, Brother Kimball must have been inspired by the beautiful homes he had _ recently seen in England. The woodwork details inside of the house, over the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 nee OF HE KEE AS Courtesy Dr. J. LeRoy Kimball enue? Game AN EARLY PICTURE OF THE HEBER C. KIMBALL HOME doors and windows, are similar to those used in England during the Regency period — a period which coincided with the Modified Georgian and Federal period in America. On the other hand, the mantle over the fireplace and the irregularly sized floor boards in the Kimball home, are typical Early American in style. Unlike many of the other Nauvoo houses still standing which were rectangular in design, the Kimball home, as shown in the illustration, was built in two parts. The larger or main part of the house is constructed with one great end wall, handsomely windowed and double chimneyed. Stretching across the entire front of this main part is a beautifully proportioned white framed porch with an upstairs balcony. 'This architectural treatment, apparently not used on any other houses in Nauvoo, was then popular in the South, particularly in New Orleans, which Heber C. Kimball had visited. The left wing, or smaller section of the house is slightly recessed with a small white frame portico over the door. Dentil molding, so popular in Georgian architecture, is used as a brick cornice on the house. These dentils are also used as decorative molding on the frame portico. All the windows in the house are framed with louvered green shutters. Early pictures of the house might give the impression that the windows are shutterless. Careful inspection, of these pictures, however, reveals that the shutters were closed and locked for protection — thus preserving much of the old "A THING OF BEAUTY" original glass in the windows. The entire architectural structure of the home is one of asymmetrical beauty and simplicity of line. The main entrance of the house is through an arched doorway opening into a narrow hall which divides the two main structural sections. This main hall stretches the entire depth of the house to a handsome back door, topped with a smallpaned glass transom. On the night, near the front of this hall, is a narrow, steep stairway leading to the floor above. 'There are six rooms downstairs, including a small room and pantry. The second floor has a_ corresponding number of rooms with two additional attic rooms in the main section of the house. Additional details of the interior of the house are described later in this article. Distributed by Kron Pharmacy, Nauvoo, Illinois THE HEBER C. KIMBALL HOME IN LATER YEARS 353 Heber C. Kimball — The Man Heber C. Kimball was born on June 14, 1801, at Sheldon, Vermont, just ten miles from the shores of beautiful Lake Champlain. He was the fourth child in a family of seven. When he was ten years of age the family moved to West Bloomfield, New York, where his father engaged in farming, blacksmithing, and building. In this latter occupation, Heber's father built an academy, two commercial buildings, and several private houses. It is apparent that while his father was engaged in this occupation young Heber learned, early in life, much about the building trade. As a young man of nineteen, Heber moved in with his older brother Charles, who owned and operated a pottery business in Mendon, New York. Heber soon became skilled Decay has set in, many shutters are missing, as well as most of the front fence; the roof is sagging, and the porch over the east entrance has been changed. 354 at molding pottery and, at twentyone, purchased his brother's business, in which he greatly prospered for the next ten years. It was when Heber was twentyone years of age that he first met Vilate Murray. She was a refined, intelligent girl of seventeen, who lived in the neighboring town of Victor, New York. One day, while riding on horseback through this small village, Heber became thirsty. Stopping by a house where a gentleman was at work in the garden, he asked for a drink of water. The gentleman called to his youngest daughter Vilate, and asked her to bring a glass of water to the young man. Heber was impressed with the pretty, modest, and courteous young woman and lingered over his glass of water. In fact, he was so impressed that a few days later he stopped by for another drink. 'This time the father started to draw the water from the well, at which young Heber blushingly admitted that he had hoped to be served by Vilate. When Vilate brought the water, she did so amid the teasing, smiles, and taunts of her brothers and sisters. More visits followed and the two were married November 7, 1822. Vilate, like many other strongcharactered women who accepted Mormonism, was a loyal and loving helpmate to her husband, supporting and aiding him in all his worthy endeavors. She was also a generous and public-spirited woman who joined with other sisters of the Church in knitting and spinning material to clothe the men who worked on the Kirtland Temple RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 and, later, on the temple in Nauvoo. In each community in which She lived, Vilate sought out the poor and timid, and brought them sustenance for their bodies and comfort to their souls. She was ever "disposed to do good and meet every obligation that devolved upon her." Certainly with her artistic and refined temperament, Vilate must have exercised a remarkable influence upon the life of her husband and, undoubtedly, employed her talents and tastes in helping to plan and furnish the Kimball homes. While living in Mendon, Heber became acquainted with a young carpenter and cabinet maker by the name of Brigham Young. He found in this new acquaintance, who was also a native of Vermont, a man of kindred interests, background, and ideals. 'These two soon became fast friends. 'Thus started a cherished friendship and close association which lasted for the next forty-three years. Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball learned about the gospel at approximately the same time. With deep sincerity, they accepted its principles and were baptized and confirmed members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in April 1832 — just one day apart. When Brigham Young's first wife passed away, the Kimballs took his two small daughters into their home and cared for them. The two families moved to Kirtland, Ohio, at the same time, where Brigham Young, "being a carpenter, joiner, as well as a painter and glazier," built the Kimball home in this new community. "A THING OF BEAUTY" One of the significant characteristics of Brother Kimball, as_revealed in his journals, is that he was a home builder. As he moved from one community to another, one of his first acts was to purchase land, build a home, and "situate himself to live comfortably." 'This he did in Mendon, Kirtland, Nauvoo, and Salt Lake City. Brother Kimball loved his home and his family. He possessed an artistic temperament, was sociable, sensitive, and refined in his tastes. He was an earnest and humble man blessed with that rare combination of great dignity and a rich sense of humor. He was a man of courage and an indefatigable worker. He possessed a sublime faith in his Creator and in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the certain destiny of the restored Church. The Nauvoo home of Heber C. Kimball reflects all of these characteristics. Built at a time when the saints were already being harassed by the mobs, this stately home not only exemplifies refinement and good taste, but also, courage, faith, and determination in the face of great adversity. 'Through it we see the character of this man and his spiritual and temporal stability. Nauvoo — The City Nauvoo was no ordinary city. This city was not like those on the eastern seaboard of the United States, where buildings of different types, styles, and ages had all grown up in a_ heterogeneous fashion. Neither did Nauvoo resemble any of the frontier communities of the 355 day, with their small humble buildings all huddled protectively together. Nauvoo was a planned city. It was a city which grew in seven short years from a half-dozen nondescript structures, to a magnificent community almost twice the size of the then sprawling city of Chicago. In 1842, The Times and Seasons described the city as follows: For three or four miles up the river and about the same distance back in the country, Nauvoo presents a city of gardens, ornamented with dwellings of those who have made a covenant by sacrifice, and are guided by revelation. It will be no more than probably correct, if we allow the city to contain between 700 and 800 houses, with a population of 14 or 15,000 people. Many of the houses recently built are of brick... Displaying that skill, economy and industry which have always characterized intelligent minds and laudable intentions. We can, therefore, of a truth declare, that within the same length of time, and with the same amount of means, no society on the face of the globe has a better right to the claim of improvement by their own' industry, or have offered to their surrounding neighbors a plainer pattern of mechanical skill, domestic economy, practical temperance, every-day virtue, and eternal religion, than the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Two steam mills have been put in operation this season, and many other buildings for mechanical labor.... While the Temple of God and the Nauvoo House, which when finished, will hardly be surpassed in the western world, are rising up as monuments of the enterprise, industry and reverence of the commandments of God. Contrast this picture of thriving Nauvoo with the unhealthful section of swamp land, mostly covered with trees and brush, which was the 356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 THE HEBER C. KIMBALL HOME AS IT STANDS TODAY (With much of the restoration work completed. The plaque on the tree designates the Heber C. Kimball home.) old village of Commerce. This was the place Joseph Smith selected where the saints could build a city away from the wrath and _ persecutions of those who would thwart the establishment of his divinely inspired latter-day work. It was here the saints had purchased a large tract of land and had decided to call the new city, which would be built there, Nauvoo, a word of Hebrew origin which means, "a beautiful place." When the first few saints moved into the area they were poor in worldly goods, but rich in faith and courage. These attributes, coupled with thrift, industry, and the rich blessings of the Lord, soon brought them prosperity. Converts, not only from the eastern parts of the United States, but also from Canada and Great Britain, flocked into the rapidly growing city. Many of these new converts were skilled artisans who brought to the community the cultural ideas and the practical knowhow so essential to a developing pioneer community. The abilities and characteristics of these devoted immigrants an- "A THING OF BEAUTY" swer the oft-repeated questions of how in Nauvoo so much could have been done so well in so little time. By 1843 there were in Nauvoo many skilled and capable craftsmen. 'There were carpenters and cabinet makers, masons and _ brick layers, tinsmiths and iron workers, silk and cotton weavers, as well as many other artisans, professional people, and common laborers. It was this combination of training and skills, coupled with industry and the ardent faith of new-found religious convictions, that built Nauvoo and made it almost overnight into one of the most remarkable cities of all time. All the results of this industry, all this prosperity, all this accomplishment, however, were not long to endure. Heber C. Kimball's prophetic prediction that Nauvoo would be "not a long abiding home of the Saints," was soon to be fulfilled. The Prophet Joseph Smith's murder at the hands of the mob in Carthage, in June 1844, was soon followed by violent threats against the people of the city of Nauvoo. Late in 1845 the mobs demanded that Nauvoo be vacated by the following spring. 'The people's courage and skill now must be turned in a different direction. 'Their faith and determination led them to follow their Prophet's instruction to complete their beautiful temple, while, at the same time, they worked feverishly to build and accumulate the necessary wagons and equipment for their western exodus. Those were heartbreaking days. The only material things they could carry with them were what could be 357 packed into the few wagons at their disposal. As an indication of the kind of home furnishings they were forced to leave behind, a reporter, writing in the Carthage Republican, said: Scattered about were numerous adjuncts of refined and comfortable living, elegant furniture, paintings, here and there a piano or a harp, finely upholstered sofas and chairs, and many tasteful and convenient things which well-to-do persons would surround themselves with in wellordered homes (Nauvoo the Beautiful, by E. Cecil McGavin, page 232). Many of the attractive homes they sold to their enemies for small sums of money. Others were merely locked up and left to be sold later for taxes by the State of Illinois. No records have been discovered to indicate what happened to the Heber C. Kimball home during the years between 1846 and 1854. Deeds, however, have been found which reveal that during the nearly one hundred years since 1854, the house changed hands many times. Each new owner made certain changes in the house in accordance with his own ideas and way of life. At one time, because of neglect and deterioration, the house was about to be torn down but, because of its pleasing lines and because of its "certain something,' it was preserved. In 1954 this historical residence, rich in tradition, found its way back into the family which built and hallowed it with love and sacrifice. On the sixth day of March at 10:55 AM., Dr. J. LeRoy Kimball, a greatgrandson of Heber C. And Vilate Kimball, purchased the home from Mrs. Katherine E.. Jones, who had 358 — A ROOM IN THE KIMBALL HOME (Before the restoration. Note the broken plaster and exposed brick. ) owned the property for twenty years. Dr. Kimball had one objective when he made this purchase. He had a burning desire to preserve the home and to restore it as nearly as possible to its original charm and beauty. The Restoration The responsibility of restoring an old home is a fascinating and exhilarating challenge. It also involves hard work, requiring countless hours of concentrated study and research. There is only one way that a work of restoration should be done — that is to do it right. There are no magic short cuts. To restore a home does not mean merely to repair it and make it livable. More is involved than just putting on a new roof, replastering broken walls, and adding a new coat of paint. Much more is required than simply refurnishing the house with any "old" furniture or new RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 modern pieces that may happen to be readily available. The restoration of a home means to return it, as nearly as possible, to its original form and condition. It means also to redecorate and refurnish it as closely as possible to the way it was decorated and furnished by its original builders and inhabitants. To accomplish this, one must first learn what the house was like when it was built. Due to subsequent alterations and changes, this is not always easy. 'The personality and living habits of the original owners must be determined as accurately as possible. The living habits of the community also must be studied and a knowledge obtained of the architecture and furnishings characteristic of the decorating period during which the house was constructed and furnished. Gathering this information ls involved and laborious. It requires the examination of old deeds, documents, letters, and journals. It necessitates the study of old pictures and photographs, and the reading of histories of the individual and the times in which he lived. Finally, it requires a thorough understanding of architectural and decorating periods. Armed with this knowledge and information, one is then ready to start work on the actual restoration —most often a long and painstaking task. In restoring the Heber C. Kimball home we have dedicated ourselves to rediscover and retain all of its early charm and appeal. We want to make the home as authentic as possible but, at the same time, "A THING OF BEAUTY" 359 Hal Rumel ANTIQUE FURNISHINGS TO BE PLACED IN THE KIMBALL HOME These furnishings are to be placed in the Kimball home, although not in the grouping illustrated above. The picture on the wall at the right is of Heber C. Kimball. The chairs are Windsor, popular in America about 1740-1850. 'These particular chairs are English. 'The Victorian lamp stood for many years in an old Nauvoo home. The footstool was used by Heber C. Kimball in his Salt Lake City home. 360 not a home designed merely for display or as a museum piece, but rather as one which was once lived in and loved. In restoring the outside of the house it was necessary to find a supply of old bricks which could be used to replace those which had fallen out of the walls or which were in bad condition. Much of the brick dentil molding, too, was missing, and this had to be replaced with brick of the same size, color, and vintage. To accomplish this, old brick was obtained from another old house in Nauvoo which was being torn down. The front porch needed repair and had to be restored to its original design as depicted in early photographs. 'The portico over the east entrance was completely missing, as were the back porch and the front picket fence. All of these have been rebuilt as nearly like the originals as possible. The entire west end of the building sagged badly and needed to be shored up with heavy beams anchored to the inside of the basement foundation. The roof was completely replaced. Shutters, missing from several windows, were replaced and matched exactly with those which had been preserved. Most of the windowpanes, due to the protective shutters, were still in good condition. Broken panes, however, were replaced with old glass garnered from other old buildings in Nauvoo. NTERIOR restoration presented some interesting problems. No photographs or accurate descriptions of the interior were available. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Consequently, we were forced to rely on what was left of the original woodwork and upon a study of the interior designs of the day. For example, many of the old homes of that period were equipped with inside as well as outside shutters. After stripping off some of the old paint, and after careful examination of the window frames, we concluded that the Kimball home certainly must have had inside shutters. We also reasoned that these shutters probably would not have been destroyed. Consequently, we conducted a thorough search of the entire premises and were rewarded with the discovery of the missing shutters hidden in a recess under the attic eaves. The discovery of a buried treasure could not have been more exciting. These shutters fit perfectly the four windows of the two front rooms and, much to our surprise, they were made of glass, rather than wood, which was more common at the time. These old glass shutters were still in a perfect state of preservation, with the exception of one broken pane. The attic search also yielded two original paneled doors which had been removed and discarded. The unique old cupboard on the side of the fireplace had been modemized. 'This now has been testored to its original state. Floors in most of the rooms were in bad condition. 'These have been repaired, using old, irregular size floor boards taken from an old barn. In the process of redecorating, a century of old paint, as well as many accumulated layers of wallpaper have had to be removed. 'These are being replaced with paint and wall- "A THING OF BEAUTY" paper of a color and design characteristic of the decorating of the period. The problem of finding the right furniture and furnishings for the Kimball home is complicated and challenging. Many pieces of furniture actually used in the Kimball home in Salt Lake City are available. Some of these will be placed in the Nauvoo home, primarily to illustrate his and his family's taste and also for sentimental reasons. However, the real furniture problem consists in finding old pieces which likely would have been in the Nauvoo home in 1845. 'This has led us to a nation-wide search which has discovered such items in Nauvoo, St. Louis, New Orleans, New York, California, and Salt Lake City. As a matter of fact, one or two special items connected with Brother Kimball's missionary activities have been brought from England. Although the restoration of the Heber C. Kimball Nauvoo home ls not completed and will yet take con- 361 siderable time, the project has been and is a most fascinating and rewarding experience. The work of the restoration has led us into a richer understanding of the lives and ideals of our stalwart pioneers. It has reacquainted us with the faith, courage, and sactifices so embedded into the creative period of our Church and has persuaded us that these virtues and this heritage have not been lost. They become the stepping stones to a greater effort and adventure and have become the foundation upon which our current great blessings in these mountain valleys have been built. Our study of the Heber C. Kimball home of Nauvoo reimpresses us with the fact that "a thing of beauty is a joy forever,' and as Keats continues: Nor do we merely feel these essences For one short hour. That whether there be shine, or gloom o'ercast, They always must be with us, or we die. She Rod Dorothy J]. Roberts Who can guess how kind the rod Wielded in the hand of God; Who can measure, yet, the grace He writes upon each questing face? Who can know? All those who trust And rise up, stricken, from the dust; Who give their lives in darkest hour Back into his tender power, Courtesy Nacional de Turismo, Ciudad de Guatemala Submitted by Gladys K. Wagner LAKE ATITLAN AND VOLCANO "SANTIAGO," GUATEMALA She Central American Tlission Preston R. Nibley N the summer of 1942, John Forres O'Donnal, a member of the Church, who was employed by the United States Government, was sent to Honduras, and later to Guatemala, to assist in establishing experimental rubber plantations in those countries. Four years later, in September 1946, President Arwell Pierce of the Mexican Mission, accompanied by his wife, made a tour of Central America, for the purpose of investigating the possibilities of missionary work in that region. He made a report of his trip to the First Presidency, and in the summer of 1947, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama were added to the Mexican Mission. In August 1947, President Pierce, accompanied by four missionaries, journeyed to Guatemala. These elders were Seth G. Mattice, Earl E. Hansen, Robert B. Miller, and David D. Lingard. On the morning of Page 362 THE CENTRAL AMERICAN MISSION | 363 September 7th, the four elders, with President Pierce and Elder O'Donnal, climbed to the summit of a hill overlooking Guatemala City, and President Pierce dedicated the city and its environs to the preaching of the gospel and the establishment of the Church organizations. Missionary work was begun immediately and has continued to the present time. The first baptism was performed when Brother O'Donnal baptized his wife and small daughter on November 13, 1948. A separate mission, the Central American, was formed in October 1952 and Gordon M. Romney was installed as president. The new mission comprised the countries of Guatemala, Honduras, British Honduras, E] Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, the Republic of Panama, and the Panama Canal Zone. President Romney presided until October 1955, when he was succeeded by Edgar L. Wagner, who presides at the present time. On January 1, 1956, there were 854 members of the Church in the Central American Mission, located in twenty-three branches. Fourteen Relief Society branches were reported, with 185 members. Gladys K. Wagner presides over the Central American Mission Relief Society. Courtesy Pablo Sittler, Foto Europa, Guatemala Submitted by Gladys K. Wagner TEMPLOS MAYA DE ZACULEHU (MAYAN TEMPLES OF ZACULEHU) GUATEMALA (Reconstructed ) Our Homes and the Flag Blanche B. Stoddard Member, General Board of Relief Society F all the people in the United () States, Latter-day Saints should love and revere the flag. In no other nation in the world could the gospel have been restored. We say our Constitution. Was God-given—good men _ were raised up to form it. 'The Prophet said it is a glorious standard founded in the wisdom of God. He called it a heavenly banner. "It is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 147). The Constitution of the United States is the supreme human law of conduct and of government for its citizens from birth till death. Relief Society mothers know the value and beauty of the Constitution. The Flag is its symbol; therefore, it should mean more to them than ever before, after having studied our social science lessons of the past three years. 'leaching proper reverence and respect for the Flag to our children will be a real application of those lessons into our lives and homes. Do we own Flags in our homes to display on appropriate occasions? What are some of these occasions? They include New Year's Day, Lincoln's and Washington's birthdays, Mother's Day, Memorial Day, Flag Day, Independence Day, LaPage 364 bor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, and other local or national public or historical occasions of a military, civil, or religious nature. It seems to me that years ago we saw the Flag displayed often, and now it is displayed seldom, and then receives only casual attention. We are accused, as Americans, of knowing very little about our Flag, and of being very careless in observance of the laws of respect due it. During street parades, thousands fail to stand at attention and salute their Flag as it passes by. When the Flag flashes on our television or movie screens, few pay attention. When the Flag is passing, those walking should halt; or, if sitting, they should stand, men with hats placed over their hearts, women with right hands over their hearts, until the Flag has passed. This salute should be rendered for every American Flag that passes. The "Stars and Stripes," or "Old Glory" as we know it today, was first adopted June 14, 1777, by order of the Continental Congress. Legend has it that Betsy Ross was a patriotic Philadelphian seamstress and a friend of George Washington. He, with others appointed to a committee by Congress, visited her in June 1776, requesting her to make a Flag. George Washington sketched a rough design, and with bits of red and white and blue cloth which she had in her little shop, she followed OUR HOMES AND THE FLAG his directions. The Flag she so diligently cut and stitched was accepted by Congress. To Americans, there is no other Flag as beautiful as the "Stars and Stripes." My husband spent four years on a mission to South Africa during World War I. He had experienced many homesick hours for his native land. On the way home, while anchored in the harbor of Port Said, halfway around the world, he saw for the first time in those four years, the "Stars and Stripes" flying over one of our warships. He said that never before nor since, has he experienced such a thrill of pride and joy. The same "Stars and Stripes," flying over Fort McHenry in September 1814, inspired Francis Scott Key to write the immortal words of "The Star-Spangled Banner," which, by an Act of Congress, was designated as our National Anthem in 1931. 'The Flag is a fitting symbol of all that Washington meant it to represent—the Flag of a free people who have never been defeated in war—a Flag under which men from every clime can be shielded against oppression and be given the opportunity to succeed in any honest endeavor. THE real name of our Flag is "The Flag of the United States of America." Under this Flag, government by the people first grew. Many brave men struggled for liberty and laid the groundwork that made such a Flag possible. This is the Scouters' definition of the Flag: "Blue represents justice, like the eternal blue of the star-filled heaven; White is for purity, cleanness of purpose of word or deed; and Red is the red life-blood of 365 brave men and women, ready to live or die worthily for their country." Flag Day, as it is now observed on June 14, was instituted by B. J. Cigrand, a schoolteacher of Fredonia, Wisconsin. He, with his pupils, on June 14, 1885, held the first recorded celebration of the Flag's birthday. But more important than the past history of our Flag or how it was born, is the way we show our respect for it today. Does it mean as much to us now as it did to Americans in 1777? Is it a part of our homes and our lives? Let us think seriously, proudly, and reverently of what our Flag does mean to us. "Old Glory" is not a piece of material but a symbol —not a symbol of a royal family, a dictator, nor of a special class or race. It is a symbol of freedom and opportunity to every man, woman, and child in America, and to oppressed people all over the world. These lines are part of the enduring bronze inscription on the base of the Statue of Liberty: Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore, Send these, the homeless, tempest tossed, to me: I lift my lamp beside the golden door. —Emma Lazarus Repeat often the "Pledge" to our Flag: I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands; one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. SN'T this "Pledge," written originally by Francis Bellamy, October 21, 1892, and since modified a 366 little, a good pledge for every American? The national Flag represents the living country and is itself considered as a living thing. 'Therefore, a Flag Code has been established. Your Boy Scout sons know it and are taught to observe it; but if they see no respect in the home nor among their elders for this emblem, their Scout training regarding it will not avail them much. Mothers of America, what can we do to engender reverence for this Flag? I am sure there are many things. First of all, own one in your family, teach its history and its symbolism, and display it at every appropriate opportunity. Discuss it often in the Family Hour. Enumerate the blessings of living under it—blessings of the right to worship in one's own way; the right to free speech and press; the right to vote; the right to protection; the right of trial by jury; the right of habeas corpus; the right to "privacy in our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 homes"; the right to own private property; the right to go into business and competition to make an honest living... So many privileges denied to a majority of the peoples of the world. In the family group, study the Flag Code and_ the "don'ts" in handling and displaying the Flag. Children should not play with it, nor should they decorate their bicycles and cars with it; instead, they should use red, white, and blue bunting. Old, worn-out Flags should be destroyed and not desecrated. There is much to teach regarding it. Your Boy Scout son would be thrilled and proud to teach his family regarding the Flag, and thus it would become more sacred to him. | Let Latter-day Saint mothers in other nations likewise teach their children to honor the respective flags of their countries, and let every mother in the United States fly "Our Flag" on this Flag Day, June 14, 1956. ~_ Appreciation for the Singing Mlothers &xpressed by President David ©. MeKay (At the closing session of the 126th General Conference of the Church) E have said "thank you" to the members of the Choirs, but let me mention them again.... We appreciate what they did our Singing Mothers. I cannot mention the name "mother" without being overcome with emotion. 'Those mothers who furnished that singing were the mothers of 1600 children! Even their title, "Singing Mothers," tells a story of sacrifice, a story of love, a story of home. No wonder they could sing the songs of Zion so inspirationally under the masterful leadership of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen. Heart's Bounty CHAPTER 1 Deone R. Sutherland NNIE stood by the wagon and A itorse saying a last goodbye to her mother and_ brothers and their little mountain cabin. Her father strapped her box in the back of the wagon. "You hold up your head, Annie Gniftith,"' her mother said. "You don't have to go, if you don't want to. But a mountain's no place for a girl to get higher education, and Brother and Sister Williams' offer to have you taught right along with their daughter Marie, until your father's mission is over, cutting stone for the temple, is a wonderful opportunity, and an answer to our prayers." "T know." Annie lifted her eyes to the mountains where the brush was turning orange and _ brown through all the heavy green. "The Griffiths owned property in the old country, and don't you forget it, Annie. And we own property here, too. In another three or four years, when the temple's finished, we'll be back on our own farm, and you'll be home again, a young lady." Her eyes turned to her husband, who tightened a rope and felt the tautness of it. "You be careful, Mister Griffith." "There's no need to be saying that," smiled Annie's father, as he took his wife in his arms, and then kissed each of the wriggling boys. "Here now," he said sternly, "you kiss your sister Annie. She'll be all grown, with her hair up and everything, likely, before you have her home to live again." They grudgingly let Annie peck their cheeks. "Fourteen now, she is," said her mother, sighing. She smoothed Annie's hair with her long fingers, and then turned her to the wagon. Annie climbed up on the seat. "You're a pretty girl, Annie," her father said, climbing in beside her. "But don't you go giving yourself airs, ever." "T won't, Papa." She kissed his cheek and threw kisses to her mother and the boys while a bird sang wildly overhead. Her father started the team and the grind of the wheels shut out most other sounds on the long, hard trip to Salt Lake. The first night they slept in the back of the wagon. Annie watched the stars through the trees, while trying to feel out the homesickness she knew was couched somewhere, like not quite daring to touch a sore tooth with your tongue. Her father reached over and put his hand across her eyes. She soon went to sleep. The next night they stopped at a friend's house in a tiny, mudspattered village. She and her father made their beds on the floor. She was too exhausted more than to glance at the log and sod ceiling before she fell asleep. On the fourth day they drove inPage 367 368 Annie houses and the to the city of Salt Lake. Stared at the big stores. 'There were so many of them! Her father had to ask directions twice about the Williams' house. | "Is it there, Papa?"' Annie stared at the big stone house with the iron fence running around the yard. "It has some kind of little tower, even, Father." "Some kind of foolishness, at any rate. The Williams are wonderful people for all that." He climbed heavily down from the wagon. Annie stepped out on the carriage block and saw a lace curtain move at one of the windows. She turned and stared at the wagon. "Tll take you in before I start loosening your box." NNIE followed her _— father " through the iron gate up the path to the house. He swung the knocker once and the door opened almost immediately. "Ts it the Griffiths?" A_ tall, brown-haired woman smiled at them. "I'm Mrs. Williams' sister. She'll be down immediately. I've already told her you've come, Brother Griffith. Annie dear, this ls my niece Marie. You're going to share Marie's room as well as her studies. You'll be great playmates, I'm sure. Oh, yes, I'm Aunt Agnes Foster." "Thank you, Sister Foster." Mr. Griffith followed her into the parlor and sat on the only wooden chair in the room. "I'm too dusty to be sitting on satin and embroidery like that," he said. Annie hung back by the door. Marie whirled around on a piano stool and tapped a key, while her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 yellow curls swung forward over her shoulder. "Marie, dear," her aunt reproved her. "Ah, a piano." Annie's father's eyes lit up. "Now, we're a people who love music. Annie sings like a nightingale. You'll love a rarity like that, Annie." Marie and Sister Foster looked at Annie. Annie felt the blood rush to her face. Sister Williams came in the door. "Have they been teasing you already, Annie dear?" She put an arm around Annie's shoulder. "I'm not very well." She shook hands with Annie's father. "I spend more time than I should having to rest." "T hope Annie'll be something of a help and not too much of a both- > Cl "Oh, yes, yes, we'll love having a sister for Marie. Marie's always lonely. Well, you can all clean up and rest before dinner. Brother Williams will be so interested in a full report—in hearing about everything. You planned to _ start back?" "In the morning." Mr. Griffith started to the door. "T'll bring in Annie's box; then there's lots I've to do this day. I've a long list of supplies to buy. I can rest enough later tonight." "Well, anyway, Marie can take Annie up and help her unpack and show her everything." Sister Wéilliams waved the girls to the stairway. "Haven't you ever seen a mirror before?" asked Marie. She put her head down beside Annie's, and they stared at their reflections. "Not one so big." Annie plaited HEART'S BOUNTY her hair slowly while Marie watched. "T like curls better, though I daresay your hair is very becoming." Marie smiled at her quickly. "You do have the loveliest eyes. Whoever heard of blue eyes with hair that black?" "T have my mother's eyes," said Annie proudly. "I think your curls are just beautiful. My hair would never go like that." "Well, you could loosen it at the sides like this, so it could curl just a little. Isn't that better?" Marie leaned back and looked critically at Annie. "We'd better hurry," Annie said. "We won't be any help at all, if we don't." "Don't worry,' laughed Marie. "You're still too new. They won't make us do too much yet awhile." But the girls hurried downstairs through the dining room, the kitchen, and the pantry. 'They were soon put to work. Y the time Annie finished eating dinner she could hardly keep her eyes open, though she tried to keep them fastened on her father as long as possible. It couldn't be true that this was the last meal with him for a good many months, perhaps a year. Already the mere thought of her mother and brothers tightened her throat and brought tears stinging to her eyes. She was more exhausted than she realized from the long wagon trip. Sister Williams stood up after a short visit in the parlor. "I really think we should get the girls to bed early tonight. Annie's had such a long trip, she can hardly stay awake." Annie kissed her father goodnight 369 after they had family prayers. He patted her shoulder with his rough hand and assured her he'd wake her in the morning before he started out. She was to wait to say goodbye then, and she was not to think of a thing tonight but sleep. Marie went grumbling up the stairs with Annie, protesting that she wasn't a bit sleepy. Annie washed and changed into her nightgown by candlelight. 'The feather tick enveloped her at once, and she was asleep in the warm softness before she'd even had a chance to remark on how lovely the moonlight was through their tall, narrow bedroom window. Annie awoke with a terrible feeling of not knowing for a moment where she was. 'Then her father's face came close to her ear. "Wake up, Annie, and dress. I must be off, and you may come downstairs and say goodbye. The wagon's loaded, honey. Are you awake?" There was no need for the question, for Annie's eyes were like two saucers. She slid out of bed, and was into her dress in no time at all. Buttoning her shoes took forever, it seemed to Annie, because her hands had begun to tremble a little, and her fingers seemed all thumbs. Now that she was up and awake, she could hear voices downstairs. She pulled back the lace curtain at the window. Yes, her father's wagon was loaded and ready. 'They were hitching the team up now. Brother Williams tightened the ropes holding the supplies on the wagon. She didn't know the other young man helping lfer father. Her father was tall, but that boy seemed almost taller. 370 Annie had no time to comb her hair and rebraid it. She wet her fingers and pushed at the sides. She was ashamed to do that; certainly her mother would hardly be proud of that. But she had no more time, she thought desperately. 'They should have awakened her earlier. She could have helped load the wagon, and she would have had more time to be with her father. She ran down the stairs and tugged at the front door. Sister Walliams called to her, and she had to go back for a shawl Sister Williams was holding. He'd be gone before she even got outside, she thought in anguish. "It's an unkindness to keep you, Annie, but I don't want you to catch your death before you've been with us a day." Sister Williams smiled at her while Annie made her pounding heart subside. 'Then Sister Williams pointed to the door, and Annie flew out to her father. 'The horses were standing hitched to the wagon, ready to go. "Have you had breakfast, Father?" Annie cried. ER father turned and picked her up in his arms. "You can be sure I have,'' he said kindly. "Now, no tears and no fretting. 'This is a kind of mission you're going on, little girl. Here's an opportunity for you to learn a great many things, to be a help to the Williams family. The Gniffiths will be most proud to have a school mistress in the family. Your mother's taught you all she can, and we know what a smart child you are already, and that you'll take to your books with no RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 trouble. Keep the things we've taught you fast in your head and heart, and live by your head and heart. Say your prayers and you'll have nothing but sunshine in your days. 'There's no kinder people than the Willams', my big girl." Annie blinked back the tears and promised her father to do her best. Her father went back and shook Brother and Sister Williams' hands. "Annie, Annie, I've forgotten all my manners. 'This young man who has helped me so well with the wagon is Brother Parker Josephson, who lives just next door. See, you're getting acquainted with new friends already." The man greeted her, but Annie had no eyes for anyone except her father. 'Though her chin trembled, Annie held fast to her smile until her father had gee-upped the horses. The wagon rumbled down the street. Annie watched it until it turned off from sight. "Oh, Papa," she cried and moved away from Sister Williams' arms as if to run after the vanished wagon. Parker Josephson caught her. He wiped away the tears, talking in soothing tones about how soon her father would have to come in for supplies again. Annie stiffened in embarrassment. Parker let her go, leading her back to the Willams' front door. "We're going to be the best of friends because Marie and I are good friends. I've dried more tears for Marie than you just shed many times. She cries at the drop of a hat, or, at least, every time she falls down or skins her nose or." Annie smiled a little. She HEART'S BOUNTY couldn't imagine dainty, perfect Marie skinning her nose. Parker smoothed her hair. "I won't tell a soul you forgot to comb your hair, if you march right upstairs and wash your face and comb and brush all that beautiful black hair properly." "T will," Annie promised. Sister Williams held the door open. Marie ran out onto the porch, her hair a golden tangle. "Don't go, Parker, stay and play with us." "At this time in the morning?" Parker laughed. "Got to be off to work." He waved goodbye again to the girls. Annie and Marie went upstairs together. "I'm sorry I didn't wake up in time to say goodbye to your father, Annie. You should have poked me." "That's all might," Annie said. "T didn't wake up too early myself." "Isn't Parker the nicest person you've ever met?" Marie bounced on her bed. "Yes, except for our families, of course." Annie began to brush her hair. 371 "Well, I meant except for them." Marie fluffed her hair. "I'm going to marry Parker when I grow up. He says I can. I don't care how many years older he is." Sister Williams paused at their door. "Marie, is that a good example to set for Annie? Do your hair and start the beds, dear, and hurry downstairs. Your breakfast is late now." "When do we have lessons?" Annie whispered to Marie on the way down. "You'll see all too soon. We have to work and work and study and study. We hardly ever get to play." Annie decided Marie didn't look too overworked. She would wait and judge for herself. 'Then she promised herself, I will be happy here. She would please her father and mother, and she would work very hard. "Well," said Brother Williams kindly, "Annie, you've a smile for us already, I see. 'That's a good beginning." (To be continued) —_— Dream Mirage Grace Barker Wilson I woke last night and thought I heard the wind Blow through the tops of pine trees on the hill I used to climb when I was young. A thinned Far cry of hoot owls brought remembered chill Along my spine. Soft twitter of the wrens That nested near my window in the eaves, Seemed reassuring. As I lay there tense, I smelled the damp of rain on orchard leaves. So real it seemed I pulled the curtain back. White moonlight flooded all the desert land; On wide horizons shadows hovered black; No tree, no hill, no bird, just wind and sand. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NATIONS" ADDRESS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF CENTERVILLE (UTAH): I think language will fail me, but still enough can be said to encourage the sisters in their noble work. In the language of scripture, to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, to nurse and administer to the sick embraces the highest point of the moral law that can be expected of humanity; the fact of which, is so well acknowledged by all sects, all creeds, and all people whether Christian or barbarian... And woman has done her work so well that it really appears to be one of the greatest essentials of human happiness... No wonder that the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to organize the Relief Society, as he saw how much more good could be done in a united capacity —John Wayman UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB: We do not limit our membership, one of the primary objects of our organization being to encourage young writers and cultivate all their literary possibilities.... Although many of the results would not perhaps shine with Shakespearean brilliancy yet we have listened to many choice thoughts that would otherwise never have had birth.... Our subjects for consideration and discussion have been historical, biographical, scientific, poetical, and political... —Dr. Ellis R. Shipp JUNE O, how we long to climb those hills, And quaff from out the sparkling rills, The honeyed nectar of our youth; For there it flows in limpid streams, Of which our fancy only dreams, Springing from wells of living truth —E. B. W. THE WORLD IN COMMOTION: Looking at the events transpiring around the world today, one must necessarily feel that with all the boasted knowledge of this century of civilization, the hidden paths of wisdom are obscure, and only found by a few, who look upward for light and search after eternal truth, as the prophets of old, and who were despised and scoffed at, but whose words were revered by later generations, and if one would profit by such lessons he must beseech the Lord in all humility for guidance —Fditorial GRANDMOTHERS: I hope you will all agree with the little girl who said she thought grandmothers were "a good plan." It ought to be so, for one generation is lifted on the shoulders of the one that goes before it. I have felt lifted up and inspired by the good deeds of my ancestors. —Julia Ward Howe ARMENIAN WOMEN: The Armenian women as a tule are fine looking with intelligent faces and womanly bearing... As they increase in years their intelligence and good looks become more manifest. —Phoebe C. Young Page 372 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, took part on two panels at the National Association of Practical Nurse Education meetings, in Chicago in May, and attended meetings of the American Mothers Committee, Inc., of which she is a board member, in New York City. UELLA ADAMS DALTON, Parowan, Utah, has been selected as Utah's Mother of the Year. Mrs. Dalton, mother of nine children, has been a teacher, missionary, seamstress, writer, actress, and housewife. Mrs. Estella Brown Harmon, Afton, Wyoming, also a Latter-day Saint, and mother of eleven children, was awarded this distinction by her State. Mrs. Dalton and Mrs. Harmon will attend the meeting of the "Mothers" in New York City, where the American Mother of the Year will be selected. ARGARET TRUMAN, gifted daughter of former President Harry S. Truman and Elizabeth Wallace 'Truman, was married in April at Independence, Missouri, to Clifton E. Daniel, Jr., a New York newspaper man, formerly of Zebulon, North Carolina. Mrs. Daniel expects to continue with her career, but will not let it interfere with her husband's. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ANTHA RAMA RAU, distinguished Indian novelist, daughter of Sir Benegal Rama Rau, former Ambassador to Washington, has written a new novel Remember the House, which "does much to make the hybrid faces of India plainer to the Western eye." GRACE KELLEY, American actress, became Princess of Monaco in April rites celebrated with European pageantry and festivities. Her husband, Prince Rainier III, is one of the few remaining hereditary rulers, and his gem-like principality on the Mediterranean is considered one of the world's loveliest vacation resorts. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Cynthia L. McClellan Bailey, Salt Lake City, one hundred; Mrs. Unity Knowles Chappell, Nephi, Utah, ninety-nine; Mrs. Catherine Melissa Hulet Dalley, Joseph, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Mrs. Elizabeth J. Day, Hunter, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Elnora Sorensen Hammond, Moreland, Idaho, ninety-three; Mrs. Elizabeth Mohr Felix, Logan, Utah, ninetyone; Mrs. Josephine Dickerson West, Pleasant Grove, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Charlotte Fawcett Beard, Henefer, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Minnie Hill Miller, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Emma _ Stembridge Staker, Marion, Utah, ninety. Page 373 C-—> EDITORIAL c~92 VOL. 43 JUNE 1956 NO. 6 She 126th Annual Church Conference HE 126th Annual Conference of the Church convened in Salt Lake City on April 6-8, 1956. It was a period of refreshment to tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints who heard the proceedings by radio and saw them by television originating with KSL and KSL-TV. The fifth session, the Priesthood meeting, had an attendance, made possible through closed circuits, of over 30,000 bearers of the Priesthood in western states and Hawaii. 'The coverage of conference proceedings increases materially each six months. President David O. McKay, beloved prophet who was marking his fiftieth year in service since becoming an apostle, presided and conducted all seven sessions of the conference. All members of the General Authorities were present and participated, except for Elder Ezra Taft Benson whose duties as Secretary of Agriculture kept him at Washington, D. C. President Joseph Fielding Smith delivered the Church of the Air Address over CBS on the "Significance of the Atonement." After stating some outstanding accomplishments of the Church since the October 1955 conference, President McKay urged and counseled the saints: I feel constrained... At this opening session to make an appeal for more stability, more harmony and happiness in home life. To the young people of the Church, particularly, I should like to say first that Page 3/74 a happy home begins not at the marriage altar, but during the brilliant, fiery days of youth. The first contributing factor to a happy home is the sublime virtue of loyalty, one of the noblest attributes of the human soul.... It means fidelity to parents Next to loyalty to parents, I should like to urge loyalty to self. Keep true to the best, and never let an hour of indulgence scar your life for eternity Next under that heading of loyalty, I urge LOYALTY TO YOUR FUTURE COMPANION Next to loyalty as contributive to a hapy home, I should like to urge CONTINUED COURTSHIP, and apply this to grown people. 'Too many couples have come to the altar of marriage looking upon the marriage ceremony as the end of courtship instead of the beginning of an eternal courtship. The next contributing factor to your happy marriage I would name is SELFCONTROL Marriage offers an opportunity to share in the love and care of children, and that is the true purpose of marriage.. In conclusion, for the proper solution of the great problems of marriage we may turn with safety to Jesus, our Guide. He declared, as I read in the beginning, that marriage is ordained of God and that only under the most exceptional conditions should it be set aside It will not dissolve when sealed by the authority of the Holy Priesthood throughout all eternity. The marriage ceremony, when thus sealed, produces happiness and joy unsurpassed by an other experience in the world RESIDENT Stephen L_ Richards "in the spirit of the brotherhood and the love which the gospel of our Lord inspires," declared: Repentance was always, and is, a part EDITORIAL of the law and the Gospel plan, and the mercy which the Savior brought is essential to the doctrine of repentance and to the administration of the laws of God. The fine balance between the two is preserved for us in the great principle that mercy shall not rob justice (Alma 42:25), nor justice mercy Every single commandment, stern as it may appear to some, is in reality an avenue to the glorious realm of peace and happiness. But repentance is an outstanding principle of mercy and love and kindness, attesting the concern and love of the Father for his children, for in the final analysis, he gave his Beloved Son, not alone to redeem us from the effect of transgressions which lay heavy upon the whole race of men, but also to give to us the inexpressibly glorious opportunity of repenting of our own individual transgressions, so that we might again come back into his presence clean and forgiven, through the precious gift of repentance Just as repentance is a divine principle, so is forgiveness.... If we were more liberal in our forgiveness, we would be more encouraging to repentance. Someone has said that the supreme charity of the world is in obedience to the divine injunction, "Judge not." Let no brother or sister in the whole family of God feel that he or she has gone beyond the point where error and sin may be left behind and true repentance enlighten the soul with hope and fariliy. 2. What the world needs is a repentant world, and you may be assured there is no enduring happiness in anything but goodness. PRESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr. "with deep humility," addressed himself to the saints: It is a trite expression that we live in an age of materialism, a materialism which has enthroned worldly things and in a materialism that has cast a shadow even over our spirituality. As I see it, one of the great reasons for this is the shadow which we have cast over Jesus as the Christ... They deny to him that he was and is the Christ. 375 Of all of the innumerable testimonies regarding his personality, [I should like to call your attention only to two or three. The first is the great prayer which he offered on the mght before his crucifixion. "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou has sent." And the testimony of Peter before the Sanhedrin, when challenged as to the name by which he had performed the miracle at the Gate Beautiful of the Temple, he replied: "by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth... For there is none other name under heaven' given among men, whereby we must be saved" (Acts 4:10-12) And that testimony embodied in that great declaration of the Father himself to Moses, because it is the epitome, the summary of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." His Gospel can be lived, can be enjoyed by the poorest of us, the poorest of us may enjoy the blessings of the Gospel, the blessings of the Priesthood which accompany it. We need neither worldly position nor wealth in order to enjoy all that he has to give. His is the salvation and exaltation, if we follow him, of all of us. There is nothing requiring more than a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and all that flows therefrom It is a glorious privilege to live in a day when the gospel has been trestored and the saints are permitted, twice a year, to gather and hear the word of the Lord to them. Of all people on the face of the earth most blessed are those who know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord, and that President McKay is the prophet chosen by the Lord for this day. This knowledge is available to all who would seek it and brings the blessings of heaven. —M. C. S. Votes. TO THE FIELD Oununer Worl Meetings T is the desire of the general board that a work meeting be held each month, as heretofore, during the summer period, June through September 1956. Diamonds and People Celia Luce I held a diamond in the sunlight. It sent sparkles of rainbow hues in every direction. It took ordinary sunlight and reflected it back in a thousand beams of beauty. I know people who are like diamonds. They take ordinary life and give to it a sparkle of beauty. They do more than just what is expected, and are always finding ways to make life glow with happiness for those around them. 'They add color and sparkle to everyday life, changing it from a drab existence to a glorious adventure. Many of us are like a mirror, instead of a diamond. We give back to the world just what is expected of us, mirroring back what the world insists on. We too seldom add the sparkle of thoughtfulness. We could reflect back the golden shine of the glowing sun, if we chose. But that is too much trouble. We do well what is expected of us, but no more. Some of us are like a black cloth. It absorbs most of the light and gives back very little to the world. It is selfish. It is no coincidence that black is the color of trouble, grief, and death. May God help us all to find the diamond sparkle. Page 376 'Virtue: is its own Reward VIRTUE is its own reward There is more to marriage than music and moonlight; there is trust and sharing. And being loved and deserving to be. There is companionship through years of growing up and growing old together. And to each partner in an honest marriage there will come a time when nothing will be more inet than personal purity. And it will not be just at some passing hour — but day after day, year after year — as long as you look at your loved ones — as long as you can feel, in reality or in memory, the small hand of a son or daughter as it closes around your finger. You — each of you — should take no less to marriage than personal purity. You have a right to expect it of the companion you choose — you have a sacred obligation to keep it and to offer it in return. The rewards of virtuous living are rich and enduring, but the price of sin runs high. The reward of virtue is a quiet conscience — the right to answer every question without reservation — the right to look everv man squarely in the eye, and every boy and girl and woman also — without an accusing conscience. It is the right to pass on to your children and your children's children a clean record, a clean heritage, a good name. You cannot cheat. You cannot avoid consequences. So be virtuous. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF untae fs its own ineward Bnd 'tedse ae its rewarde: Peace of mind is Jove af loved ones: ngme Be 1 ae seo. The confidence of family § pa The strength of personal purity The trust 'of your children The sense of purpose in life here An assurance of everlasting life with these you love $ of peace _ ard limitless progress herealter i AML this is yours far ' keeping the commandments Be true ta your friends, your family your Father in Heaven in other words - Be Honest With Yourself Commencing with this inspiring message to its young men and young women, the Church takes a significant step forward in its crusade to teach and encourage high moral and ethical conduct among its members. The key to this new series of inspirational sermonettes is largely one of "self interest" in the true sense. Its central theme is "Be Honest with Yourself." When our young people — and those who are not so young — learn the age-old lesson that virtue, like honesty, temperance, and clean, healthful, happy living are right because they are good for the individual and for society, the world will be a better place. Page 377 RECIPES FROM CENTRAL AMERICA 379 2 Onions, chopped 2 Ibs. Pork cut into 1-inch Cubes 3 cloves 8arlic minced 1 Ib. Beef cut mto 1-inch Cubes 4 tbsp. Chopped Parsley 2 02. Ham cut into small Cubes 3 Corander Seeds 1 tomato chopped 1 bay leaf 3 potatoes, Peeled and Cubed 3 tbsp. Lemon or lime juice 1% c. Cubed Squash or Pumpkin 1 tbsp. Salt 2 green bananas, sliced ¥, Inch thick 1 tbsp. Pepper 1 Spanish-sty Je 'ausage (Cherizo ) Ejorrs ENVUEL 105 EN JUEVo (String Beans with Egg) Ibs. Fresh string beans ~ C888 separated 1% tsp. Salt at for d GALLo EN Cuca (Rooster in "Chicha"') 1 large Tooster, cut for frying 2 pleces garlic 2 Ibs, chopped pe tomatoes 6 tbsp. Fat 4 onions, chopped "2 tsp, black Pepper "2 Ib. Dried Prunes salt to taste Ingredients for making "Chicha" 1 ¢. Brown sugar } C. Warm water 1 C. Vinegar "2 tsp. Dry yeast To Prepare "chicha," mix vinegar and Water with brown Sugar and yeast in glass or similar Container and allow to stand at room temperature for 4 to 6 hours, lS Teady, fry in frying Pan the picces of rooster in fat till brown: then place Meat with fat in Pressure Cooker, Add tomatocs, onions, 8atlic, salt. And Pepper, and cook mM open Pressure cooker for 15 minutes, stirring Constantly, Ad the chicha," close the Pressure cooker and cook at 15 pounds Pressure for 5 380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Cuapin RICE 2 ¢. Rice' | 4 c. Hot water 2 ripe tomatoes, cut in pieces 1 carrot, cut in strips 1 onion, cut in pieces 1 pimiento chili, chopped 2 pieces garlic % C. Raw peas 3 heaping tbsp. Pork lard ¥% c. Raw string beans, cut 2 tsp. Salt Fry rice in lard with tomatoes, onion, and garlic for 10 minutes; add other vegetables and fry additional 5 minutes, stirring to keep from burning. To this add the hot water and mix together with salt. Cover and leave cooking on low flame for 30 minutes. Do not remove lid or stir until done. When cooked, fluff by gently turning rice with spatula. Serve with "Gallo en Chicha." The rice can be prepared without carrots, peas, string beans, and pimiento chili, for serving with fried beans or other foods. (These last two recipes "Gallo en Chicha" and "Chapin Rice" were submitted by Sister Carmen O'Donnal of Mazatenango, Guatemala. ) ~—<-- My Faith in God Alice Lyman Welling I know he lives who knows me best, And how in eagerness I try To bear my share of bitterness Without complaint, or tear or sigh. My faith in God makes gray skies blue; It lifts the clouds above my head And bids them move, that rays of light Reveal a faith, alive, not dead. So with this gift so precious, rare, May I not fail with service pure, But minister to souls who faint That my salvation will be sure. Long-Lost Friends Maude Rubin With house all neat, no garden to tend— Fresh cookies baked, dressed-up, I mend But I sew alone till that day's end— Without one friend. Next day I decide to plant some roses. When I'm wet and muddy from leaky hoses, Freckled and sunburned (at least, my nose is! ) Here come my friends! When Nother s Reputation Was at Stake Nedra Stone Nickell Y mother was loved by all who knew her as a good neighbor. Forty or fifty years ago, in a pioneering community, this title was not easily achieved. It meant being on hand at times of birth, sickness, death, accident, and distress with whatever quality of soul and skill the occasion demanded. It meant giving of one's time and substance freely, neither of which was plentiful. Mother was a dark, slight, quick woman, with no wasted motion. Without conveniences, she was an excellent cook and _ housekeeper, tended a profitable garden, raised chickens and turkeys, was a "'greenthumber"' with shrubs and flowers, canned, preserved, and_ pickled, made cheese, soap, quilts, and rag rugs, sewed and darned, and cared for her husband and four children— all of which was a part of her being a good neighbor, for she shared the results of her labor, even father and us, when the situation required us. To Mother, the most prized possessions were a good name and a generous heart. 'These ideals were drilled into her children throughout the years. Honesty, dependability, virtue—prerequisite to a good name —were not so hard to assimilate, with her and Father's constant example, but the generous heart proved sometimes quite a problem, and not one of us ever reached Mother's status in this respect. "Give the best that you have, even all that you have, if another needs it more than you," was the motto by which she lived. When a neighbor's cow died, leaving the children without milk, they were presented with the very best cow we owned. I remember thinking, Now, why couldn't it have been old Dolly, the one who gives me so much trouble when I herd them on the hills, or old Nell, whom Father hates to milk because she's a little short on the action end, as he says. But, no, that would never have suited Mother. It had to be the best. Then there were the times when I was called upon to share my store of dolls and other playthings with some less fortunate child. Mother's method of presenting a case was always convincing, which enabled me to give some things quite freely, but that best was one I never could surmount in my childhood. Saturday was Mother's big baking day. Generous quantities of edibles were prepared to tide us over Sunday, so that we could all go to Church and still serve a bounteous meal to the playmates and friends of various ages whom we invited home to dinner through the years. About a mile and a half from our homestead an old Danish widower, named Dan Olsen, lived with his young son. Coincidently or arranged, every Saturday he journeyPage 38] 382 ed to town to replenish his supplies. On his return he always dropped in. I watched eagerly for his one-horse buckboard to appear, for he never failed to bring me a nickel sack of candy, in those days a just reward for any childish effort. When ready to leave, he was heavily laden with warm, fresh bread, and pie, cake, cookies, or whatever was the order of the day. When his son, who was then twelve years old, broke his leg, Mother insisted on bringing the boy to our already overcrowded home to nurse him until it healed. He was given the best bed in the house, where he lay for a month. I remember hearing Mother and Father up with him night after night soothing his pain. It was three months before he was able to return to his father. About two years following this incident, Mr. Olsen — suddeu! Y stopped coming to our home. Candy hungry, each Saturday I watched anxiously for his buckboard, but each Saturday he passed by with his head turned the other way. Of course, Mother was very upset. The second time this happened she called to him as he passed, but he never stopped or seemed to hear her. Then she began inquiring of the neighbors, if they knew the reason for his strange behavior. 'The report was that he had stopped speaking to everyone. He just didn't like people anymore and repulsed all attempts at friendliness. Soon after this we learned that he had named his cows after the women of the community. Naturally, we children managed to see the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 one he called "Cora," after Mother. She was red with vicious-looking horns and a stubby tail. Father thought this was a good joke and gently kidded Mother about it. We youngsters saw some humor in the situation, also, but we didn't dare say anything because to Mother it wasn't funny — it just did something to her good name, and when the subject was mentioned, a tear or two would sometimes fall. However, her generous heart was undaunted. Every week, through the spring, summer, and fall of my seventh year, laden with food, I trudged the mile and a half to Mr. Olsen's home. T times, the food arrived in a somewhat doubtful state. Being a farmer's daughter and a child of nature, I found much to allure me from a quick delivery. 'here were flowers to pick on the hillside, birds' nests to search for in the sagebrush, and a pleasant time could be spent sitting with bare feet in the dust of the road, sniffing the various, glorious smells of the countryside — the damp, sweet odor of earth and new green shoots of willows along the ditchbank,. The wafted perfume of lilac and plum blossoms, the tantalizing scent of new-mown hay. Then, too, I was reluctant to reach my destination; among the children of the community there was the rumor that the old man was. Crazy and might do us harm — and I was just plain scared. Eventually, however, it had to be done, so I would timidly approach the house, set the food on the porch, call Mr. Olsen's name until WHEN MOTHER'S REPUTATION WAS AT STAKE 383 he came to the door, then run as fast as I could until I was out of breath. He was a small, quick man, with reddish unruly hair and a generous moustache of the same hue, and I always pictured him pursuing me with these flowing in the wind, but I hadn't the courage to look back to alleviate my fears. LATE het fall word came to us that Mr. Olsen was ill. Mother's indignation melted at once, and she ordered my brother to hitch the horse to the buggy. "I must go to him, even if he doesn't like me," she said, busily. Tying on a clean apron and gathering her supplies, while giving my sister instructions for taking charge at home. "I can't leave an old man alone with only a boy to care for him; it just isn't neighborly." So, laden with home remedies and more food, she and I set forth. When we reached our desiination, Mother's steps were firm and resolute as she marched without hesitance to the door. Mune were timid and dragging, as I followed behind, my arms holding, with reluctance, a home-pressed cheese and a dressed stewing hen. We found Mr. Olsen ill with a bad cold. He was too sick to object to Mother's ministrations, which she assumed at once, making him clean and comfortable and applying the remedies of pioneer life. While he slept and the chicken cooked, she cleaned the house — with some help from me, ironed shirts, and then sat down to sew on needed buttons. Mr. Olsen awakened in the late afternoon, feeling much better. He looked at Mother strangely for a few minutes, while a tear slid slowly down his roughened face and nestled in his graying moustache. "You are a good, kind woman," he said. "T am a mean and foolish old man. I quit for speaking to my neighbors because they are too good to me and I do nutting in return.. That is not the vay to show I am grateful. I vas so wrong. I vill do better." — Mother smiled at him. "You were a foolish one," she said, as she arranged the tempting tray of food before him. "Don't you know it makes us happy to help you?" She hesitated, at a loss for words. "But, tell me " Her face flushed a little, "How could you call a cow Cora?" The old man grinned and said nothing for a moment, while his moustache moved rhythmically up and down. "Oh, those cows!" he chuckled. "May, she is the bossy vun, alvays throwing her head and chasing the others. Dottie, she is the so stubborn, selfish vun — she holds up her milk; half of the time she only gives me half of her milk. But that Cora." A fond light crept into his eyes, "She is the good and generous vun. All that she has is mine." I glanced up at Mother. She wore her "all's right with the world" expression. Her good name was intact. She and the cow were kindred spirits. Apparent, also, was a decided twinkle in her eye, which was a probable indication that she could now laugh with Father over this one. I, too, was feeling happy, with visions of little sacks of candy again. Cliff Flomes of the Ancients Nell Murbarger ANISHED civilizations and \) ruined cities of the Old World undoubtedly represent the ne plus ultra of archeological significance, but nowhere in the world are there known cliff dwellings of larger extent, or more elaborately constructed, than those found in our own Western United States. Preeminent among those cliffside dwellings are the ancient apartment houses now preserved in Mesa Verde National Park, in southwestern Colorado. Discovered to science in 1888 and granted national park status fifty years ago, the seventh to be established among our twenty-eight national parks, Mesa Verde has since played host to hundreds of thousands of persons who have gazed upon her fine, old ruins in amazement, and have carried away with them a greater realization of America's antiquity than they had ever before known. On this well-forested tableland, nearly a mile and a half above sea level, and 2000 feet above the surrounding Mancos Valley, men were living possibly as long ago as the beginning of the Christian era! As long as 1200 years ago, these Mesa Verde dwellers were tilling fields of corn, squash, and beans; were fashioning handsome baskets and decorated pottery, and weaving fine cotton cloth. And _ nearly 1,000 years ago, these same ancient dwellers began construction of the inPage 384 credible series of stone-masonry apartment houses of which the largest and finest was magnificent Cliff Palace, 300 feet in length, with 202 dwelling rooms situated on eight floor levels, plus twenty-three kivas, or ceremonial chambers! In addition to unknown numbers of these great cliff cities, which were built inside open-faced caves in the nearly sheer walls of the canyons, the ancient inhabitants of Mesa Verde had built plateau villages, as well. No one knows how many ruins of both types are situated within the park boundaries, but the number of major cliff ruins has been loosely estimated between 300 and 400; and as each of these ruins formerly sheltered from a few to several hundred Indian inhabitants, the aggregate population of the area must have been considerable. After the ancient Mesa Verdens had resided in their pit houses on the plateau, and in their great cave palaces for 1,000 years or more, evil days fell upon their colony. 'The year 1276, or near that time, according to archeological calculations, saw the beginning of a twenty -fouryear drought cycle. With not enough rain falling to maintain life in their fields, to supply drinking water to wild game, or to develop the nutritious kernels in pine seeds and acorns, hunger came to stalk the land; and as springs and other water sources disappeared, the people of Mesa Verde began CLIFF HOMES OF THE ANCIENTS Nell Murbarger CLIFF PALACE RUIN, MESA VERDE NATIONAL PARK, COLORADO drifting away to' the Rio Grande Valley and the highlands of present day New Mexico and Arizona. By av. 1300, Mesa Verde is believed to have been completely deserted by her people. Without hands to maintain them, the great cliff palaces fell eventually into partial ruin; and between the last footfall of the departing Indians, and the first white discoverers of the canyonside cities, there passed nearly six centuries when the only living beings to occupy these rooms are believed to have been the furred and feathered creatures of the wild. PoDar finds Mesa Verde's great apartment houses in a state of picturesque ruin, but with a major portion of their walls still standing. No admirer of antiquity can fail to be impressed by the architectural handwork of these ancient builders who flourished so many generations ago. 'That many of these stone masonty walls—laid without mortar, perhaps more than four centuries before the discovery of America by Columbus — are still as straight and true as if laid by modern stonemasons, speaks well for the intelligence and native ability of the men. In addition to the several outstanding cliff ruins open daily throughout the summer season to ranger-escorted visitors, many other interesting ruins are visible from two rim drives, which may be 386 travelled either in one's own automobile, or in hotel-operated conveyances available at nominal cost. The park's admission fee of one dollar covers use of all park roads, free camping or picnicking privileges in a large, pine-shaded campground with wood, water, and other conveniences; and free admittance to both park museums. 'These include a museum of natural history, and an archeological and _ ethnological museum featuring dioramas and exhibits which provide the most important single aid to understanding the human pre-history of the region. Visitors to the park will find it to their advantage to spend some time in the latter museum, both before visiting the ruins and again afterward. To auto travelers, Mesa Verde is readily accessible over paved highways from every part of the country — the recommended routes from Salt Lake City and vicinity being US. 50 and U. S. 160; and from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Denver and the East, U. S. 50 and 160, or over U. S. 85-87 and 160. The side road to the park leaves US. 160 about midway between Cortez and Mancos, Colorado, from which point park headquarters lie nineteen miles distant, at an elevation of 6,965 feet. From the highest point in the park (8,575 feet) it is possible to view 14,000 square miles of the famous "Four Corners Country." Visitors not desiring to camp, will find motel cabins and housekeeping tents available for rent during the summer season (generally from about May isth to November ist.) During this same period park facilities include stores selling general supplies and souvenirs, a restaurant, gasoline station, and stables where riding horses may be rented. Inquiries concerning rates, reservations, and other information, should be addressed to Mesa Verde Company, Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado. My Garden Catherine E. Berry My garden wears upon its face The bloom of poppies, Queen Anne's lace To frame its locks of iris blue, And zinnias of every hue To star its flowered Sunday gown, With marigolds to make a crown. And Canterbury bells will ring Whenever winds of twilight sing, Pale moonflowers open in the night When four-o'clocks have closed up tight; And when the dawn has tinged the skies My garden opens rosebud eyes. Make Childrens Clothes Economically and Professionally Ivie Huish Jones NOWING exactly how much material to buy to make a certain article of clothing is an art worthy of cultivation. Planning ahead, and taking into consideration some of the fundamental principles of proper cutting technique, is a means of helping to keep within the family clothing budget. Manufacturers know that their profit lies in careful cutting to fit the pattern to the goods instead of the goods to the pattern, thus producing little or no waste. From the president of a large manufacturing company, I learned, at an early age, one of the most valuable lessons of my life on cutting garments. Opening a room filled with scraps, he fairly shouted: "Here is my profit. If you can cut the garments I want without all this waste, the job is yours." Designing patterns so that the scraps from one piece fit exactly onto another, is the secret. When yardage is limited, even in home sewing, accurate cutting ls lmperative. If the garment is to be reproduced several times, as is usually the case with Relief Society sewing, make the pattern of heavy paper or light-weight cardboard and make the pattern exact. Guessing at the size or allowing too much material for the seams, then fitting later, is wasteful of both time and material. Estimate Needed Yardage Taking advantage of sales, remnants, and samples can prove real economy or it can be a wasteful expenditure of clothing money. We find many widths of material today. It is well to determine how much material to buy of the different widths. Most commercial patterns give these estimates, but they may be based on less accurate cutting. Using the corner of a table as a starting point, or a bed if the table is too small, measure the width of the material to be purchased and place one yardstick down at that width. Then place the second yardstick down, marking half the width of the material, pretending that the material is folded double. Whenever possible it is well to cut all pieces double as this prevents such calamaties as cutting both sleeves for one arm or both pants fronts for one leg. Now adjust the pattern in that space and then measure the length to buy of the different widths of material. If the pattern requires one yard and four inches, why buy a yard and threefourths? Combining Short Length Materials The patterns shown here were used by Relief Society sisters for materials purchased on one of those "take it or leave it" sales. 'There were six hundred samples of good quality rayon and cotton gabardine, forty-five inches wide and eighteen inches long, in every color of the rainbow. 'These were folded crosswise, simplifying the cutting. No two were exactly alike in both texPage 387 388 ture and shade, but this only added interest, for it made necessary the combining of colors which often adds attractiveness, especially to children's clothing. Combinations of rich gray with blues, soft tans with browns, pink hues with rose or red, or the many different shades of green, were pleasing. Cutting the boy's shorts out of eighteen inches of material was interesting, for it was like balancing a budget. 'There was just so much cloth, no more, no less. 'The one half yard made a pair of shorts up to sizes six to eight. With fortyfive-inch material, one could choose between three different styles: shorts with a bib and suspenders; TWO-PIECE SUIT The model is Robert E. Jensen four years old RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 shorts with set-in pockets and a belt; or shorts with trimmings to match a loose sport coat. For marking around the pattern onto the cloth, leftover pieces of soap may be used in place of tailor's chalk. After marking around the pattern carefully, pin each piece of the pattern on the material to prevent the material from slipping while cutting and also to keep the different pieces together. Cut carefully on the marks. Tailoring Making men's and boys' clothes is an easy task and satisfactory, too, if the technique of good tailoring ls adhered to. Every seamstress knows something about tailoring so the entire process need not be given here. A few short-cuts, however, might prove helpful. In general, the real secret of good tailoring is: accurate cutting; straight sewing; handling and turning as little as possible; and pressing as you sew. There is nothing complicated about making a pair of boy's shorts and they may be given a tailored look even when using cotton materials. Have the fronts plain or pleated, never gathered, and have pressed in creases. Sew and press each leg separately and you will be pleased with your tailoring job. By all means fell the side seams of washable materials. Press after each operation, using light-weight brown paper, such as thin paper sacks or paper bags from the cleaners. Place the paper over the part to be pressed, and then moisten the paper with a wet sponge. Be sure that the iron is not too hot. Sew up the legs on the machine, and hem MAKE CHILDREN'S CLOTHES ECONOMICALLY 389 FOLD OF MATERIAL SELVAGE \ 1 ' PLACE FOR BUTTONHOLES AND BUTTONS OR SNAPS BACK OF COAT: SIZE 6 {! BACK OF TROUSERS ' PATCH SIZE 6 \ & MATERIAL —— < H — ' fe) \ s) ' Fk FRONT OF COAT ' ' < SIZE 6 I: Fs) t ' | ' v j! § i ie \ FRONT OF TROUSERS in y i SIZE 6 | a 5 < fas ' ol ote POCKET SLEEVE Fr) SSGk a < aes L SELVAGE FOLO OF MATERIAL the bottom by hand, using the lock hemming stitch which is so desirable for children's clothes because it does not unravel. For convenience and effectiveness in giving the final pressing, use two small magazines about the size of The Relief Society Magazine. Leave one magazine flat and roll the other, covering each with brown wrapping paper. Inside seams of sleeves and legs should be pressed over the rolled up magazine while the flat one should be inserted into the leg while the hem is being pressed. This presses the upper side without wrinkling the under side or leaving the marks of the hem. Men and boys could use this idea to advantage when pressing the cuffs on their trousers. Before sewing the two legs together, give them the final pressing touch. Placing the under leg seam exact with the side seam, makes the creases fall into position and look like father's trousers. Press well, using the dampened paper. Sew the two legs together and flat fell. Also keep that tailored look by giving special attention to the waistband or waist hem. Turn the hem at the top of the shorts one inch and pin or baste. Stitch on the top edge, not onefourth inch away but on the edge. Cut a piece of one-half inch cotton tape, not bias—or a straight strip of material, two inches longer than from crease to crease in the front of the shorts. Attach to this tape sufficient good quality elastic, onehalf inch wide, to make a circle to fit the child's waist. Pin the tape carefully on the under side of the hem between the creases, being sure to place the middle of the tape at the center seam. On the sewing machine, stitch the tape or straight piece material down firmly to the under side of the hem only. This keeps the waistline straight 390 across the front. Now turn under the hem one-fourth inch, beginning across the front. Keep the elastic well up into position. On the sewing machine turn under the hem over the elastic a little way at a time. Push the gathers as it seems necessary, always doing so when the presser bar is down firmly and when the needle is in the goods. With a little practice a professional job will result. No stitching will show on right side of shorts. Remember collars are much easier to attach before the side seams are sewed up. Proceed with the coat or jacket as you would in making a man's RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 shirt, shoulder seams first, then attach the collar and add front facings. Sew in the sleeves and flat fell if the material is to be washed. The coat part fits up onto the sleeve instead of the sleeve onto the coat. Fold the fronts together evenly and mark the position of the pockets, then sew them into place while the garment is open. Press well before sewing up the side seams, and there will be little pressing necessary when the coat is finished. Buy the right amount of material, cut carefully, stitch straight, and press well, and tailoring will be a joy. Mortar for the Miles Verla R. Hull Silence may be golden, But never seems to be When no dear friend across the miles Takes time to write to me. So I have the post-card habit, For letters, digest form. Now gainful waiting-moments Can keep my friendships warm! On a Sleepless Summer Night Beulah Huish Sadleir You have deigned to show me love As new as each awaited moon Upon its rising date. The white rose blooming by the door Breathes life through every silvered pore. The dampened grass is therapy to Soul and feet—and While there is no sleep—the thought Of you dispels such loneliness As might be here. There Is Still Time CHAPTER 5 (CONCLUSION) Margery S. Stewart HE girl obeyed meekly. She T lay still while Elizabeth adjusted the straps, but when they waited for the elevator she lifted her eyes. 'They were blue and clear, like a child's, and full of pain and fear. "If my mother were only here or someone. I don't want to lose my baby." Elizabeth was swept with pity. She took the girl's hand, held it tightly in her own. She smoothed the hair back from the girl's forehead. "Listen, my child, and don't be afraid. 'This doesn't mean you wont have your baby next time. Sometimes these things happen. But next time will be different. Just keep remembering that." The girl clutched her hand. "Bill and I want a baby more than anything else in the world. We were so happy." "You just pray as hard as you can, and I'll pray with you and everything will be all right. I promise you." The girl sighed, relaxed. "You sound just like my mother. That's what she would say." Elizabeth took her upstairs, remembered at the last moment to pull the mask over her face, forgot to leave the chart at the desk, but remembered the operating room. Gentle nurses took the girl, wiped away her tears, murmured encouragement. 'The girl looked back to Elizabeth. "Thank you. I feel strong now. I'm not afraid." Elizabeth went back to the chart. She reached for the chalk and crossed out the name of Mrs. Malouf. Mrs. Malouf, too, was alone. She was a large, silent woman. But on the elevator she opened her eyes. "Hold a thought for me," she said. "T will," Elizabeth said firmly. "T certainly will." She watched the elevator doors open before her. She pulled up her mask. 'This is a little job, she thought, not very important, but I'm so glad... So very glad I have it. 'To walk even a little way with someone in need is happiness deeper than I have ever known. It was three o'clock before she knew it. The nurse who had helped her with the uniform came to her. "You'll come tomorrow?" Elizabeth nodded. "Thank goodness! 'Tired?" "A little. I can rest when I go home." The nurse smiled. "You'll get used to the job, it will take a few days." "IT wonder how you do it," Elizabeth said, "it's bitter hard work, and such responsibility." The nurse took off her cap and shook out her light brown curls. "Wouldn't trade my job for the plushiest career in town." Page 39] 392 T' was good to hurry home, to close the big front door behind her, and relax in Matilda's bustling concern. "Here's iced raspberry punch I've been saving for you and some chiffon cake I made special. Was it hard?" Elizabeth shook her head. "No. It was good. Matilda, you can't imagine how really brave people are. How did Grandma Anderson make out?" "My land! You never heard such singings and hummings and bustling about... Happy as a mother bird with new nestlings, she was." Elizabeth sighed with relief. "I'm glad. It's all going to work out fine. Know something, Matilda?" '"No'm." "Everybody needs a big job to do, Matilda, work to stretch his mind and muscles. It's good that way." Matilda cleared away the glass and plate. "And you need a nice little rest before the youngsters git here, and besides, you ain't forgettin' the dinner party tonight?" Elizabeth jumped to her feet. "Completely forgotten it. I better run upstairs and dab some cream on my face. 'The dinner is at Mrs. Jones' and you know how beautiful she is." Matilda's smile was brief and white. "Mis' Jones is one gorgeous creature, and I ain't exaggeratin'!" She rolled her eyes. "That red hair and those green eyes and that figure!" "Will you please send the youngsters upstairs when they come in?" she called to Matilda. Elaine was first. She came in slowly, with the shining look around RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 her dark eyes that Elizabeth had come to associate with: A. An unexpected compliment; B. A special date; C. The consumption of a large indigestible mound of French fried potatoes and catchup. "You'll never guess!" She came to light upon the bed. "You're in love?" "Hate boys." "You ate three bars on the way home from school?" "Mother, be serious! 'They've asked me to give a dramatic reading at Mutual next week." Elizabeth sat up. "A what?" Elaine nodded. "Just as I thought. No one around here cares what I do or want... Or dream about. No one has even noticed that I've spent hours... Simply hours in the garage, practicing." "Practicing what?" "My reading. I'm going to give "The Interlude.' It's terribly sad, about a girl who is bidding her lover farewell... He's going to war, you know." Apprehension seized Elizabeth. From her own youth she conjured up memories of miserable moments brought on by her own lack of humor. "Darling, don't you think it would be best to... Sort of break it in gently... I mean, start out with something light and gay." Her voice trailed away, muffled by Elaine's accusing glare. She stood up, floated disdainfully to the door. "I might have known I could expect nothing... Simply nothing from my family. No one around here..." she looked over Elizabeth's head, "understands art, or anything, really."" She went out, closing the door firmly behind her. THERE IS STILL TIME Elizabeth's listening ear followed her footsteps down the back stairs, through the kitchen pause slam of the refrigerator door... Pause. 'That meant the last of the cake and a second glass of milk. The screen door slammed and the garage door screeched open. Elizabeth sank back on her pillows. Every man to his own idea, and every child to its own learning. She fell fast asleep. GHE was awakened by Brent. He sat beside her and rumpled her hair. "Hey, beautiful! How's the nurse?" She opened her eyes. "Hi, Brent! Is it late?" "Six. When are we due at Karen's?" "Seven. 'Twins home?" "Yup. In the back yard with Mother. She's teaching them how to braid a lasso." He got up. "Tl get in and out of the shower. Maybe it will give me a boost." "Tired?" He passed a hand wearily over his face. "Beat. It makes me so mad when [ can't push a thing through the way I want it... Past all the people who stand in the way." She swung out of bed. Thing special?" "The job. Lost out on two bids. Some new people. They are cutting their own throats just to get in, and cutting mine, too, incidentally." She went to him, put her arms around him. "T wish I could help." He turned away. "No one can help. A man is strictly on his own in this racket." "But he isn't." "Any- 393 He rumpled her hair. "Yes, yes I know... I should believe in the ultimate reward. Well, I'll go take that shower." "Brent." "Yes?" She took a deep breath. "I'd give anything I possess to give you what I'm discovering. 'That's just how beautiful and comforting it is." His mouth straightened, stubbornly. "Better be getting out your most lavish, darling. Karen is probably going to be loaded for bear." AREN'S dinner party was a beautiful affair. Elizabeth looked down the long white cloth, with its sparkling silver and softly flaring candles. Karen was in smokegray chiffon and pearls. She was laughing at something her guest on the right had said. © "Now I'm the type that doesn't lean," Karen was saying, "I simply can't imagine a situation that could shrivel me. I think people should learn a complete independence." "But we must lean on something, someone, greater than ourselves. We need the Lord, at least I do." The guest was Doctor Neiland, a scientist. Karen tilted her chin defiantly. "That's for the weak." "I do not consider myself exactly weak," the scientist said dryly, "nor any number of my friends." Karen laughed. "How very serious we are becoming. I will not have people serious around me. There's nothing to be solemn about... It's roses, roses all the way." She flashed her lovely, appealing smile on all her guests, "Let's go to the living room. I've a new song I want to sing for you," 394 She rose and led the way, her gray chiffon swished softly about her, the. Net stole floated back from her shoulders. Elizabeth felt a trifle heavy and dull next to such electric charm. She found herself a chair and looked around for Brent. He was in close conversation with a group of men. Their faces were grave and closed. Karen came over to her. "Accompany me. You know the song." Elizabeth complied. She looked through the music, lifted her eyes to Karen, awaiting her signal. Suddenly Karen laughed and darted away. She returned in a moment, a silver candelabrum in her hand. She placed it on the piano to everyone's amusement and bowed to Elizabeth. Elizabeth laughed. It was all so gay and light and fun, a typical Karen evening. She swept into the music, and Karen began to sing. It must have been, Elizabeth decided later, quite a few moments before anyone noticed the fire. It happened so suddenly. Was it Karen, or someone else? Karen ran about, flames from the candle circling madly through the flimsy stole, the fragile dress, her hair. If she had only stood still, not run away from them. But she did, crying and dodging away from the arms that would smother the fire, until Brent caught her and forced her to the rug and wrapped his jacket around her, beating out the flames with his bare hands. Elizabeth found herself kneeling beside Karen, sobbing.... Karen covered her burned face with her burned hands. "Tt's gone!" she cried, "it's gone!" Over and over again. A a: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Brent's hands were not badly burned. He would not go to the hospital, insisted Elizabeth could take care of them, and she followed the doctor's instructions. Brent's thick blonde brows drew together. "Why did she keep saying, 'I'ts gone'?" "I don't know. Do you suppose she meant her looks?" Elizabeth caught his shoulders. "She won't be scarred! Not Karen!" BLIZABETH went to the hospital half an hour early. She found her way to Karen's room. It was dark. A nurse rose up from beside Karen's bed. "How is she?" Karen whimpered under heavy bandages. "It's gone! Oh, Elizabeth what shall I do? What shall I do? There's nothing for me at all, if I don't have any beauty." "Nonsense." Elizabeth sat beside her. "In the first place, we're not sure your beauty is gone; in the second place, we'll love you just the same." Karen turned her head from side to side on the pillow. "No," she said, "you won't love me. When I was a child and fearfully ugly, no one loved me at all. But one day I started being pretty, and then it all began... The friends, the fun, my marriage... Everything began when I was pretty. My whole life is built on it." Later, talking to Doctor Neal, Elizabeth felt better. 'There would be plastic surgery, and time, and perhaps, even scars, but not a hopeless disfigurement. Doctor Neal shook his head. "But what good is it, if she's going to the THERE IS STILL TIME stay in that room of her life all the time?" "What do you mean?" He said, ""Vhere are so many rooms of happiness in the house of our life. It's pathetic to me to see people cling to one room, even though it's being demolished, affords no shelter, because they don't believe enough to open the door to another room and take a_ look around." Elizabeth went back to Karen. "He says it's going to be all nght." Karen turned away. "He's just saying that." Elizabeth went closer. "You've got to believe. Think of the suffering you'll save yourself, if you'll only believe." "T can't believe,' Karen cried from her bleak abyss. "I never could believe. I can't just start now." "You've got to stop thinking about yourself. You can't imagine how much you are needed in the world. Right in this hospital there are a dozen places " She fell silent, for the door of Karen's anguish, she had no key.? BLIZABETH stopped at the temple grounds on her way home. She had grown into the habit of stopping here frequently. As the building progressed, the feeling around it changed. Not so much of peace, Elizabeth thought, but a feeling of readiness for the future. Elizabeth looked at the high, beautiful walls of the temple, breathtaking in their height and purity of line. I am like the house, she thought, something of me that was of the world is being broken and taken 395 away. And in its place could stand, if only I were willing to live for it, the spiritual house. The thought filled her with such humility and longing she could scarcely bear the pain of it. "A temple not made with hands." They were putting in the steps. She went to stand beside them, seeing in her mind's eye the generations of young men and women who would climb these stairs to their marriage vows, of the children who would come to be baptized for their dead fathers, the older men and women coming to do the work for their dead. Oh, let me be a part of it, she prayed... No matter how small, no matter how humble... Let my whole family be a part of it. Let Brent and me come here Elizabeth turned toward home. It was good to drive into her own driveway, to look at her own lawn and flowers. She stopped short on the threshold. Brent was home at three thirty in the afternoon, an unprecedented occurrence. She looked at her watch to make sure. "Darling, you're not feeling well?" Brent did not lift his head. "I feel all right,' his voice was flat, dead. She went to him, knelt beside him, cradled his head on her shoulder. "What's wrong, Brent? 'Too much work?" He pushed away from her with heavy, slow movements. "It's gone," he said. Alarmed, she shook him. "What are you talking about?" "My construction outfit. I've just lost it." She sat very still on her heels. I 396 should have known. Flashes from the past months rose before her eyes. Brent's frantic absorption in his business, his increasing irritability. "It isn't that bad. We still have the house." He laughed shortly. "For about a month. It's mortgaged to the hilt and with no business to pay for it. I thought I'd get that Lander's bid, today. Bid as low as I dared. Lost it, and that's that." I should be prostrate with fear and worry about tomorrow, she thought. But I'm not. I feel sure, so very sure that everything will come out all right, that this is going to be taken care of. She put her hand on his arm. "You started from nothing once before." He pushed her hand away. "That was twenty years ago. I'm old and I'm tired." He held out his hands, palms up. "I haven't the price to get started." BoLIZABETH spread out her skirts with long, gentle fingers. "But if you had a job, and I had a job, and we worked and saved, we would soon have enough to build another house, and then two houses, just like we did before." He looked at her questioningly, "But what of the children? What of Elaine? What of our friends?" The swift memory of Maria brushed coldly upon her. She pushed it away with strong insistence. "There are friends and friends. If we lose these, we'll find some others. If we lose these, we never really had their friendship at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 all, so, consequently, we haven't lost a thing." "But the money? We've lost all that money." She stood up and walked about the room. "Money can't buy Karen her beauty again, nor the belief and unselfishness to go on without it. Money won't buy us the courage were going to need. You'll have to start looking for a higher place than the bank, Brent." Brent rose up, too, and came to her and took her in his arms. "A higher place... Where you've been going for months and months? Elizabeth, you are a tower." She held him close. "I'm not strong, Brent. But I know where strength is, all kinds of strength." He held his cheek against hers. "Pve watched you for a long time... Watched you grow, watched the children change from selfish, screaming youngsters to nice, decent kids. Is it as simple as going to Church?" She took a deep breath. "If you're humble and pray and do everything you can until you know. I am learning and so can you. And there is no joy to compare with it." Brent dropped his arms. He went over to stand before the window. "You can see the temple from here, ever notice?" Elizabeth went to stand beside him. "Tt isn't finished yet there's still time." Brent turned to her. What?" gentle. She smiled and moved within the shelter of his arms. "Time for us to help build it, my darling." "We'll do that," Brent promised huskily. "Time for His voice was curiously &mily Chadwick Laugg Takes Many Quilts MILY Chadwick Zaugg, West Point, Utah, has made many quilts in many designs and in a great variety of colors and patterns. Appliqued quilts, pieced quilts, designs in intricate quilting patterns, quilts in basket design, star quilts, modified star designs, tulip quilts, diamond patterns, and many others have been made by the busy fingers of this devoted mother. She has made quilts of small scraps and large scraps, used clothing, and new materials — quilts for many people and for many homes, for gifts to members of her family and for Relief Society bazaars. Mrs. Zaugg, now eighty-five years old, is the mother of twelve living children. She has fifty-nine grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. As a young mother of six children she carried the responsibility of the family, while her husband served on a twoyear mission. While living in LeGrande, Oregon, Mrs. Zaugg helped to operate a family dairy, churning three gallons of cream at a time and molding the butter into twopound "pats." She read The Relief Society Magazine while turning the churn. She was president of Relief Society in the Mountain Glenn Ward in Oregon for seventeen years, and during that time her thirteenth child was born. Three years later her husband was called on another mission — this time to Switzerland and Germany. In 1935 the family moved to West Point, Utah. Sister Zaugg became a visiting teacher and is still faithful in this capacity. In 1948, she became the Relief Society work meeting leader and has had charge of the quilt-making projects. Jo a Friend Marvel Crookston A friend once sent some daffodils To make my sick room gay. Now spring can never pass again But glad thoughts wing her way. Page 397 From The Field ms Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Barbara D. Howell SAN JOSE STAKE (CALIFORNIA), SAN JOSE FIRST WARD FORMER PRESIDENTS HONORED AT MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS BANQUET Front row, seated, left to right: Della A. Walton; Sophia J. Harmon; Frances W. Whght. Back row, standing, left to right: Ethel M. Beckstrand; Marjorie T. Jenks; Elizabeth R. Thomassen; Eva C. Taylor; Pauline C. Pace; Lucille R. Taylor; Ethelyn D. States, present President. Barbara D. Howell, President, San Jose Stake Relief Society, reports that former presidents of San Jose First Ward Relief Society and also the eldest sisters in the ward were honored guests at the banquet. 'The theme for the evening was ""The Very Young and Young at Heart." One hundred seventy-six attended. A most unique program was presented by both the young and the old. Yesteryear fashions of five eras were modeled by mothers and daughters. "Since the San Jose Ward was organized from the California Mission in 1935, five wards and a dependent Spanish branch have grown out of the San Jose First Ward. There are now eighty-two Relief Society members in the San Jose First Ward, and 450 members in San Jose Stake." Page 398 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 399 Photograph submitted by Genevieve L. Anderson EAST LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), MISSION PARK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS MAKE MULTI-COLORED HOOKED RUG FOR RELIEF SOCIETY ROOM Left to right: Grace Laidlaw, President; Carma Clark, Counselor and designer of tug; Fairie Sessions, Counselor. Genevieve L. Anderson, President, East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports this interesting and worthwhile project: " "Tis a rug of many colors, like Joseph's coat of old. Loving hearts and hands have made it, through hours of work untold." "These lines from a poem composed by Joanne C. Duncan, and dedicated to Counselor Fairie Sessions, very well describe the multi-colored hooked rug lovingly and patiently made by Relief Society members. The exquisitely hooked piece, which was two years in the making, consists of forty-four sections and will cover an area fifteen by thirty feet. It was hooked by over sixty women for the Relief Society room in the new chapel, for which ground was broken in 1954. In January of that year, Sister Sessions proposed that the organization hook a rug for the Relief Society room in the new chapel. Unanimous approval of her suggestion gave impetus to the project. A talented designer, Carma Clark suggested a pattern that would be effective, yet not too difficult. Thirty colors were used, and each section consists of fifty-four squares, each five and one half inches square. Special mention should be made regarding the devoted efforts of two sisters, each over seventy years of age, who donated far more than their share of work hours: Josie Alleman and Amanda Bassett. 'The present officers of Mission Park Ward Relief Society are: Grace Laidlaw, President; Sarah Anderson, First Counselor; Fairie Sessions, Second Counselor; Juanita Foley, Secretary-T'reascr 400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Photograph submitted by Zella C. Christensen SOUTH SANPETE STAKE (UTAH), EPHRAIM NORTH, SOUTH, AND WEST WARDS HONOR FORMER PRESIDENTS AT ANNIVERSARY DINNER, March 13, 1956 Zella C. Christensen, President, South Sanpete Stake Relief Society, reports an unusually successful anniversary dinner: ""At this anniversary party, all the women who have ever served as presidents of the three Ephraim wards were honored. All of the former presidents who attended were presented a beautiful carnation as a token of our love and appreciation for their fine service. Present presidents of the three wards are: North Ward — Marcel Poulsen South Ward — Dorothy Braithwaite West Ward — Vonda Christensen "Stake board members in attendance were: Zella C. Christensen, Agnes Anderson, Gladys Dean, Algia Nielson, Orpha Edwards, and Dora Olsen. In all, two hundred and fifty women were in attendance." Photograph submitted by Elnora T. Loveland WEST BOISE STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT EASTER MESSAGE "I AM THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD," March 30, 1956 In front, left to right: Wendell Jensen, pianist; Marguerite Ward, First Counselor; Elnora 'I, Loveland, President; LaRue Campbell, director and chorister; Geneva I, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 401 Peterson, Second Counselor; Josephine Anderson, social science class leader; June Garrett, Magazine representative; 'Uhelda Bills, Secretary; Erma Waite, work meeting leader; Genevieve Passy, visiting teacher message leader; Fern Laney, literature class leader; Jane Naylor, organist (seated). Seated, at the right of the organ: George G. Gore as Peter; Bishop Marion J. Callister as Judas; Sonia Peterson as a young maiden, seated in front of Judas; N. Keith Larsen as a Roman guard; Lois Rasmussen as Mary Magdalene. Second row, standing fourth from the left: soloist Paul L. Ward. The following numbers, portraying the mission of Jesus, his crucifixion, and his resurrection, were presented by the Singing Mothers, assisted by a mixed chorus and soloists: "Christ the Lord Is Risen Again"; "Christ Went Up Into the Hills"; "The Lord Is Risen"; "I Think When I Read That Sweet Story of Old"; "Were You There?"; "The Legend of the Garden"; "The Resurrection"; "The Easter Story'; "Words of the Master''; "Peace I Leave With You." Photograph submitted by Belva J. Petersen EAST OGDEN STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY RECEIVES GIFT OF BOUND VOLUMES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AND A BOOKCASE FOR KEEPING THEM Left to right: Karene Straw, Magazine representative, East Ogden Stake Relief vache Dr. Edward I. Rich; Belva J. Petersen, President, East Ogden Stake Relief ociety. Sister Petersen reports the deep appreciation felt for this generous gift: "The East Ogden Stake Relief Society was presented with the bound volumes of The Reliet Society Magazine (1914 to and including 1955) and a bookcase to keep them in. They were given to us by Dr. Edward I. Rich, in behalf of his wife, Almira Cozzens Rich, who died January 6, 1954. Sister Rich was a devoted Relief Society worker, serving as the first Relief Society president in Mount Ogden Stake, which position she held for fourteen years (1922-1936). Previous to this calling, she served as ward secretary in the Ogden Fifth Ward, and as counselor to the Weber Stake Relief Society president, Aggie Stevens." 402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Photograph submitted by Effie F. Meeks FLORIDA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Front row, seated, left to right: Josie DeLoache; Willard DePrater; Mary Studebaker; Susan Warren; Renie Tompkins; Nancy Brazzeal, First Counselor; Effie F. Meeks, President; Blannie Jackson, Second Counselor; Doris Smithson; Gladys Kelly; Allie Mae Avery; Phyllis Ladd. Second row, standing, left to right: Mamie Stalling; Elois Hand; Rosa Lee Brooks; Alice Brimhall; Johnnie L. Johnson; Cassie Bowles; Algie Sauls; Edith S. Box; Mary C. Duran; Margaret Lee; Mary Jorden; Lucille Whitehead; Alzada Chace; Ruth Boone; Ruby Copeland; Mildred Smith, organist. Back row, standing, left to right: Carrie Rudd; Erma Phelps; Laura DeMerrot; Dulcie Bryan; Thelma Dickey; Lera Harris; Estele Henderson; Mattie Mobley; Annie Jordan; Thelma Sutton; Ruth White; Helen B. Shields; Ramona Demery; Rose Melvin; Jewel Hill; Trixie Davis. Sister Meeks reports that this occasion was the first time the Florida Stake Singing Mothers have presented the music for quarterly conference since the stake was organized. -— ee She Mlanti Semple Gertrude Beck On the side of a hill, in the heart of the West, Stands a temple erected to God; It gleams in pure white... A glorious sight, And is ruled by the straight, tempered rod. May loved ones find peace in its foundations of truth, May all brothers and sisters alike Work together, and search for an almighty strength, To guide them by day and by night. — LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Preview of Lessons for 1956-57 Elder Leland H. Monson HE theology lessons for this year bring to a conclusion our sixyear course of study of the Characters and Teachings of 'The Book of Mormon. During this course we have studied the lives of these remarkable prophets and have become acquainted with their faith, courage, and devotion in living and teaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. These lessons have culminated in the memorable account of the birth, crucifixion, and resurrection of the Savior and his ministry as an immortal Being here on this continent. The first two lessons for this year —beginning with 3 Nephi, chapter 15—continue the account of the ministry of Christ among the Nephite people and reveal the great compassion Jesus had for those who manifested such abiding faith in him. 'These lessons establish the fact that strict adherence to the Gospel Plan is necessary for eternal life and show that peace and happiness come both to individuals and nations who obey the Lord's commandments. The lessons also describe the great fall of the Nephite nation and show how continued wickedness _ destroys a people when they do not repent. 'These lessons also emphasize the fact that 'The Book of Mormon was written to the Gentiles, the Jews, and the Lamanites of the last days. 'They show that to the Gentiles would be given the privilege of unveiling the land of America after it had been kept hidden from the nations of the world for centuries. 'They point out that a great and marvelous work would be accomplished by the Gentiles in the last days. The Jews, the record tells us, would be a hated and despised people, but that the gospel would come to them, that many would begin to believe in Christ, and that they would be restored to the land of their inheritance. 'The Page 403 404 Lord also held out to the Lamanites some great promises for the last days. Mormon and Moroni directed part of their instructions to these Lamanites. Moroni urged presentday Lamanites to:. Be baptized in the name of Jesus, and lay hold upon the gospel of Christ, which shall be set before you, not only in this record but also in the record which shall come unto the Gentiles from the Jews, which record shall come from the Gentiles unto you (Mormon 7:8). It is hoped by the author that every Relief Society member will recognize that the primary purpose of The Book of Mormon is to reaffirm and re-establish in the minds of men that Jesus Christ is divine. It is further hoped that every Relief Society sister will be persuaded that firm testimonies of the divinity of Christ and rich personal blessings come to those who, diligently and with a prayerful heart, study The Book of Mormon. The acceptance of The Book of Mormon as having been written and translated under the inspiration of the Lord will strengthen this testimony. 'That when this course has been completed, members of the Relief Society will have gained this priceless testimony, is the sincere hope of the author of these lessons and the general board of Relief Society. The lessons for the coming and final year have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 41—Jesus Instructs the Nephites (3 Nephi, chapters 15-21) Objective: To show the great compassion of Jesus toward the Nephites RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 who manifested such great faith in him, and his love for children. Lesson 42—Christ's Ministry Continued (3 Nephi, chapters 22-30) Objective: To show that strict adherence to the Gospel Plan is necessary for eternal life. Lesson 43—The Nephites and Lamanites Become a United People (Fourth Nephi) Objective: To show that peace and happiness come to individuals and nations through living the gospel of Christ in unity. Lesson 44—The Fall of the Nephite Nation as Recorded by Mormon (the Book of Mormon, chapters 1-7; Moroni, chapters 7-9) Objective: To show how continued wickedness destroys a nation when it does not repent. Lesson 45—Moroni Explains Principles and Ordinances of the Gospel (the Book of Mormon, chapters 8 and g; the Book of Ether, chapters 5 and 12:5-41; the Book of Moroni, chapters 1-7, and chapter 10) Objective: To show "... If the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief" (Moroni 10:24). Lesson 46—Prophecies Concerning the Jews, Gentiles, and Lamanites in the Latter Days Objective: To show that the prophecies made by Book of Mormon prophets are being fulfilled. LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 47—A Review of Outstanding Characters of The Book of Mormon Objective: To show through a study of the lives of the characters of The Book of Mormon that true greatness is found in a love of God and service to one's fellow men. 405 Lesson 48—"A New Witness for Christ" Objective: To show that firm testimonies of the divinity of Christ and rich blessings come to those who study The Book of Mormon with a prayerful heart and practice its teachings in their lives. (Uisiting Seacher ITlessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Preview of Lessons for 1956-57 Leone O. Jacobs HE visiting teacher messages for the coming season (1956-57) will conclude the six-year' series "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth." Messages for this year, as in previous years, are selceted from the same material as outlined in the theology course, thus correlating the two. 'These gems of truth not only portray the character of their authors, but also set forth the eternal, unchangeable principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Book of Mormon prophets were indeed inspired by the Lord as shown by their prophecies and teachings. Messages of scripture dealing with important virtues and principles of the gospel will be discussed, and their practical application brought to our attention. 'The general subjects are: on revelation— the words of Mormon in Third Nephi; prayer—the words of the Savior to the multitude as given in Third Nephi; charity—the words of Mormon in the Book of Moroni; sustaining authority—the words of Mormon found in Third Nephi; love of God—found in Fourth Nephi, during the period of peace which followed the visit of the Sayior to the Nephites; laboring diligently—instruction of Mormon to his son, Morom; faith—Mormon's teaching as found in the Book of Moroni; and, last, the promise concerning a testimony of The Book of Mormon as given by Moroni in his farewell exhortation. This promise will insure a testimony of the truthfulness of The Book of Mormon as an added witness of the divinity of the Savior, to anyone who meets the requirements stated therein. Inasmuch as these messages are brief and have universal appeal, they are suitable for presentation in all homes. It is again recommended that visiting teachers memorize the quotations. The quotations and their obyjectives are as follows: Lesson 41. "Yea, Wo Unto Him That Shall Deny the Revelations of 406 the Lord, and That Shall Say the Lord No Longer Worketh by Revelation " (3 Nephi 29:6). Objective: To show that faith in continuous revelation is essential to a testimony of the truth of the gospel. Lesson 42. "Pray in Your Families Unto the Father, Always in My Name, That Your Wives and Your Children May Be Blessed" (3 Nephi 18:21). Objective: To point out the blessings that come from family prayer. Lesson 43. "But Charity Is the Pure Love of Christ, and It Endureth Forever; and Whoso Is Found Possessed of It at the Last Day, It Shall Be Well With Him" (Moroni 7:47). Objective: To stress the great importance of developing charity. Lesson 44. "And Wo Be Unto Him That Will Not Hearken Unto the Words of Jesus, and Also to Them Whom He Hath Chosen and Sent Among Them; For Whoso Receiveth Not the Words of Jesus and the Words of Those Whom He Hath Sent Receiveth Not Him; and Therefore He will Not Receive Them at the Last Day" (3 Nephi 29:34). Objective: To point out that hearkening to the words of Jesus and to the words of those whom he has chosen to lead the Church are required of Latter-day Saints. Lesson 45. "And It Came to Pass That There Was No Contention in the Land, Because of the Love of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 God Which Did Dwell in the Hearts of the People" (4 Nephi 1) Objective: To give encouragement for eliminating contention through having the love of God in our hearts. Lesson 46. "And Now, My Beloved Son, Notwithstanding Their |the Nephites'] Hardness, Let Us Labor Diligently; For If We Should Cease to Labor, We Should Be Brought Under Condemnation; For We Have a Labor to Perform Whilst in This Tabernacle of Clay, That We May Conquer the Enemy of All Righteousness, and Rest Our Souls in the Kingdom of God" (Moroni 9:6). Objective: To remind us that we as individuals must never cease laboring to bring souls to Chuist. Lesson 47. "And What Is It That Ye Shall Hope For? Behold I Say Unto You That Ye Shall Have Hope Through the Atonement of Christ and the Power of His Resurrection, to Be Raised Unto Life Eternal, and This Because of Your Faith in Him According to the Promise" (Moroni 7:41). Objective: To show that faith in Jesus Christ is the key to eternal life. Lesson 48. "And When Ye Shall Receive These Things, I Would Exhort You That Ye Would Ask God, the Eternal Father, in the Name of Christ, If These Things Are Not True; and If Ye Shall Ask With a Sincere Heart, With Real Intent, Having Faith in Christ, He Will Manifest the Truth of It Unto You by the Power of the Holy Ghost" (Moroni 10:4). Objective: To point out that Moroni's promise is certain of fulfillment if prescribed conditions are met. Work ITleeting— Food Preparation and Service Preview of Lessons for 1956-57 Rhea H. Gardner 'HIS is the second year of the course of study on "Food Preparation and Service." Too often in our day, women look beyond the walls of their homes for opportunities and experiences that offer challenge and contribute toward cultural growth. The fact is that the world's greatest laboratories for such experiences are our homes. Our homes are gold mines of opportunities, but the mining is not successfully done without effort. It requires planning and an earnest and continuous search. The important thing is that each wife and mother approach her task with a feeling of pride in her work as a maker of homes and a builder of characters, and that she allow nothing to blind her vision nor discourage her efforts. One of the richest shafts in this gold mine is in the area of meal preparation and service. If the mining is carefully and thoroughly done, the rewards are incalculable. The physical health of family members is kept at its best, and ties between mother and children are strengthened through their united relationships in the family kitchens. Since the best foods may be served at a nominal cost, the choosing, preparing, and serving food becomes a real art, satisfying the creative urge that is within us all and turning would-be boredom into deep satisfactions. Because food preparation is a daily activity, it can be a source of great, creative joy. Everyday duties, when done with competence as well as with love and devotion, enrich us spiritually; spiritual satisfaction is the finest fruit of all endeavor. 'The same experience results in boredom when we fail to develop skills that assure us success and a growing love for our work. The objective of these lessons is to teach the basic rules for success in choosing, preparing, and serving food, so that the experience of food preparation will become a real art and furnish recreation as well. What activity does more to re-create one's enthusiasm and love for life than to prepare and serve a delicious food that lifts the spirits and gives comfort and peace to the ravenous appetites of growing children? The full objective of these lessons will be reached only if each presentation includes a discussion on how each individual food fits into the entire meal picture. The fact that foods are good is not enough; they must also be good with the other foods with which they are served. Titles for the 1956-1957 course of lessons are as follows: Lunches and Sandwiches Casseroles and Leftovers Party Refreshments Breads Cheese Dishes Desserts Beverages Summary Pao a Ae a Page 407 408 It is recommended that the demonstration method of teaching be used as much as possible in the presentation of these lessons. 'The printed or spoken word is made alive and is more likely to become effective in the lives of those who read or hear it, if, in addition, it is demonstrated. As the solidity of our homes is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 being tested, and youth is confronted with forces that are in opposition to principles taught within the home, every effort must be made to hold the family together. Delicious foods, prepared by the co-operative effort of family members and served attractively in an atmosphere of peace and love, will do much to keep the family united and working for common ideals. OLiterature—Shakespeate in Our Lives Preview of Lessons for 1956-57 Elder Briant S. Jacobs HETHER we will or no, Shakespeare is always with us. Few of us are even mildly aware of the many actual words he places daily in our mouths; fewer still have taken the time to trace these daily phrases back to the plays themselves. And scarcely any of us have ever said aloud one word of thanks or appreciation to this greatest writer in English literature for the warming, cheering, enlarging contributions he makes constantly to our lives. The purposes of our study of Shakespeare are to understand more fully: (1) how near we are to Shakespeare in our daily lives; (2) how much our awareness of the human and natural worlds about us is quickened through reading him; and (3) how deeply indebted we are to him for his words of universal truth. Realizing full well that the high qualities of respect and love can never be forced nor dictated, our supreme objective is to understand Shakespeare more fully that we might enjoy him; respect and love then follow inevitably. Controversy over Origins or influences is not our major concern; nor are we interested in analyzing him as do scholars or critics. We are interested in finding within his lines those qualities which have made him immortal; we do want to become intimate friends with his characters and to feel at home in his stage settings. 'Then his words which we hear constantly ringing about us will gather richer meanings. 'Then his high poetry will sing more strongly within us, and lift us, sadden us, baffle and tease us, just as does life itself when most truly, keenly seen. 'Then in his speaking more intimately to us we shall realize in simple awe why his works have only increased in use and vitality throughout the centuries. More fittingly than of any other writer it might be said of Shakespeare that he is "all things to all men." His world of literary truth LESSON DEPARTMENT is adorned with the delights of the imagination, with poetry, music, beauty, fantasy, suffering, terror, wisdom, compassion. It is his people who come more fully alive on the page than do our neighbors and business associates in so-called "real" life. With him leading us and putting words and visions before our inner eye, we shall plumb depths of wisdom and human insight elsewhere and heretofore unknown to us. And best of all, gradually we shall come to realize that the unifying force of all his plays — Shakespeare himself — has seen life as truly as he has seen it fully. He never cudgels us into accepting any prejudiced, partial view of life as the whole and only one; he never preaches nor poses. Instead, he seems to say, "Here is a version of truth, of life as it has come to me. Consider it as you will; reject or accept it if you must; yield up to it your enjoyment and sympathy if you can." Our text is G. B. Harrison's Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948, $6. It will be used for the entire course. It is imperative that each class leader have a text, one which is competently edited, with full footnotes at the bottom of each page. Lesson titles and objectives for the first year follow: Lesson 1. Why Shakespeare? Objective: To understand the reasons for Shakespeare's greatness and appreciate his contribution to our lives. Lesson 2. Shakespeare's World Objective: To present the customs, 409 beliefs, and conflicts of Shakespeare's life and world, which were ready to be given harmony and artistic form by his emerging genius. Lesson 3. Shakespeare's Poetic Power Objective: To feel more profoundly the peculiar power and mystery of Shakespeare's poetry that we might read his works with enlarged understanding and hearts. Lesson 4. The Moral Shakespeare Objective: To show that in his plays the artist Shakespeare reveals himself as a typical Elizabethan who, among many other values, knew and loved the Bible and its moral teachings; therefore he defined Truth truly. Lesson 5. The Merchant of Venice Objective: To learn more fully that the two-edged sword of mercy cuts those who do not extend mercy, just as it cuts those to whom mercy is not extended. Lesson 6. Romeo and Juliet Objective: To witness the great beauty of the poetic expression and dramatic skill of Shakespeare in depicting the love of Romeo and Juliet. Lesson 7. A Midsummer Night's Dream Objective: To show that in A Midsummer Night's Dream, Shakespeare touches our lives through fantasy and poetry; through qualities we all approve, such as love, delight, joy, and humor. Lesson 8. Julius Caesar Objective: To realize that idealistic men of good will may destroy themselves in bold but imprudent attempts to destroy the evils they feel exist. Music for Lessons on Shakespeare Any of Shakespeare's works that are set to music could be used for any lesson, but the following are listed under the most appropriate one. LESSONS 1, 2, 3, AND 4: "A Sea Dirge'"' (solo) The Tempest— Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c Two Shakespeare Songs (solos) "Shall I Compare Thee to a Summer's Day?" (Sonnet); "Full Fathom Five" (A Sea Dirge) The Tempest—Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c "It Was a Lover and His Lass" (solo) As You Like It—G. Schirmer Co., Inc. Oc "Who Is Sylvia?" (solo) Two Gentlemen of Verona—G. Schirmer Co., Inc. Oc "Shall I Compare Thee?" (solo) Sonnet XVIII—G. Schirmer and Co., Inc. Oc "Blow, Blow, Thou Wintery Wind" (duet) As You Like It—Theodore Presser Co. 20¢ "It Was a Lover and His Lass' (trio) As You Like It—Oliver Ditson, Co. 22¢ "Under the Greenwood Tree' (fourpart mixed voices) As You Like It— H. J. Fitzsimmons Co. 20c "Sweet and Twenty" (solo) Twelfth Night—Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c "Hark, Hark, the Lark" (trio) Cymbeline—Theodore Presser Co. 20¢ "Who Is Sylvia?'"' (two-part chorus) Two Gentlemen of Verona—G. Schirmer Co. 20¢ Lesson 5. Merchant of Venice "Tell Me Where Is Fancy Bred'' (solo) —Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c Lesson 6. Romeo and Juliet "Come, Black-Browed Night" (four-part chorus )—G. Schirmer Inc. 22¢ Lesson 7. Midsummer Nights Dream "I Know a Bank" (duet or chorus)— G. Schirmer Inc. 20c Lesson 8. Julius Caesar "Orpheus Song'"' (solo)—-Chappell and Company. 60c If your local dealer is unable to supply these numbers, they may be ordered from the following stores: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Daynes Music Company, 15 East First South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Glen Brothers Music Company, 74 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Preview of the Lessons for 1956-57 Elder John Farr Larson Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. In the short space of twenty years, he has brought forth the Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God, and has been the means of publishing it on two continents; has sent the fulness of the everlasting gospel, which it contained, to the four quarters of the earth; has brought forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit of the children of men; gathered many thousands of the Latter-day Saints, founded a great city, and left a fame and name that cannot be slain. He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord's anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and his words with his own blood; and so has his brother Hyrum. In life they were not divided, and in death they were not separated! (D. & C. 135:3). Page 410 LESSON DEPARTMENT HE foregoing excerpt from modern Latter-day scriptures offers a complete and concise summary of the Prophet Joseph Smith's place in the history of the world. It describes vividly the broad scope of his accomplishments within an unbelievably short time. It awakens in every Latter-day Saint a new appreciation for the life of this great leader. One cannot review his service to mankind without concluding that he was inspired of the Lord and divinely called to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times. All Latter-day Saints are desirous of becoming more familiar with the "wise... Instructions for the benefit of the children of men" uttered by the Prophet. He spoke with wisdom on almost every conceivable subject, and most of what he said was far in advance of the thinking of his day. Some of the Prophet's teachings were directed to God's children everywhere, some to members of the Church only, while still others were spoken to specific groups within the Church. Of special. Interest to members of the Relief Society are his instructions delivered and recorded at the early meetings of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, which was established by the Prophet Joseph Smith in March 1842. Sarah M. Kimball reported the Prophet as saying, ""The Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized" (Relief Society Magazine, March 19109, page 129). The Prophet Joseph's exalted concept of women's status elevated them to a new level. His instruc- 411 tions established a conduct pattern for Latter-day Saint women which they have been taught to follow ever since, perhaps not always being aware of the original source of these instructions. His suggested procedures in serving others and in perfecting ourselves are as applicable today as when they were spoken, and coincide with "new'' ideas advanced by the modern experts. Latter-day Saint women are better wives and mothers by living in accordance with the teachings given them by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Their family life patterns become greatly strengthened. In speaking to the Relief Society on May 26, 1842, the Prophet advised the sisters of Relief Society, "If I were not in your midst to aid and counsel you, the devil would overcome you" (D. H. C. V, page 21). The social science lessons for the coming year are based upon the Prophet Joseph Smith's teachings to Latter-day Saint women. 'They are offered in the hope that through their consideration Relief Society members everywhere will increase in testimony regarding the Prophet's mission, and in a desire to improve the effectiveness of their great organization by heeding his timely counsel. 'These 1956-57 lessons are the first year of a course of study designed to strengthen the family, and to consider its problems, position, and blessings in our modern culture. Lesson titles and objectives for the year are as follows: Lesson 1—Joseph Smith's_ Early Home Life Objective: To show the influence of the Prophet's early family life upon 412 his teachings to the Latter-day Saint women. Lesson 2—A New Day For Women Objective: To show that the organization of the Relief Society marked the beginning of a new era for women Lesson 3—The Key Is Turned Objective: To show significant steps in the organization of the Relief Society and the opportunities for service found in its objectives. Lesson 4—Women and the PriestHood Objectives: To show the role and responsibilities of Latter-day Saint women in connection with the Priesthood. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Lesson s—'"Unto the Least of These Objective: To show that salvation is the ultimate aim in all service to the needy. Lesson 6—"'Search Your Hearts" Objective: To illustrate the process of perfection and the necessity of eliminating those traits of character which retard our quest for perfection. Lesson 7—'"Be Ye Therefore Perfect" Objective: 'To suggest the importance of acquiring desirable qualities and to show the blessings in store for those who love the Lord. Totes on the elven of the a HIS year only one writer not previously represented among the authors of the lessons, is introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine. John Farr Larson, author of the social science lessons, "Latter-day Saint Family Life,' was born in Taylor, Weber County, Utah, a son of Patriarch James A. Larson and Olive Farr Larson. He is a graduate of Weber College and the University of Utah School of Law, and is a practicing attorney in Salt Lake City at the present time. He is a member of the Utah State Bar Association and is currently serving as chairman of the Family Law Section of that organization. He has been admitted to practice law before the Supreme Court of Utah, the United States Court of Military Appeals, and the United States Supreme Court. In 1938 Elder Larson became affiliated with the Utah State Juvenile Court System and since 1944 he has been Director of the Bureau of Services for Children, Utah State Department of Public Welfare. (This Bureau has administrative supervision of Juvenile Courts, Child Welfare Services in County Departments of Public Welfare, the licensing of Child Placing Agencies and Day Care Centers, and the investigation of adoption petitions for District Courts. ) He is a former President of the Utah Conference of Social Work, the Utah Child Guidance Association, Board of Directors of Salt Lake Community Chest, and is currently a member of the Editorial Advisory Board and_ Professional Council of the National Probation and Parole Association. In 1950 he served as Chairman, Utah Committee, Mid-Century White House Conference on Children and Youth. Elder Larson served in the Eastern States Mission from May 1936 until LESSON DEPARTMENT 413 June 1935. He has always been active in the Church. For many IS d V]], ZT years he served in Scouting and othacre "sic ~7or er MIA positions in the Ogden Fighth Ward. He is a former SunwD Gi, y Ram Pa day School superintendent of West Ensign and Canyoncrest Wards, | | ~~ Ashford's Piano Voluntaries—. Vols. 1 and 2 oooea. $1.25 member of the Highland Stake Sun- ' lB d a. Ee) ie Celestial Echoes 000000 022200---.- 1.00 day School Board and superintend- | | ~~ oo |; re 95 ency, and for three years a counselor | | Chapel Mesingsy 85 in the bishopric of Canyoncrest | | Chappell's Sacred Song Ward. At present he is a member FROG ecm ence cneenes erst omnan 1.25 of the Monument Park Stake High | | --- Concert Transcriptions of C 1 Favorite Hymns 000000002 200.-.. 1.00 emer; ia Church Pianist—Vols. 1, 2, 3.. Ea. 1.25 He married Ann Clayson In the ~ Famous Sacred Songs oe 1.25 Salt Lake Temple In June BOZO: ji More Concert Transcriptions of They are the parents of two sons Favorite Hymns - -.---seeeeeeum and three daughters a. Peery's Piano Voluntaries 1.25 bi hical sketch be IM = Piano Voluntaries --.. 1.00 For biographical sketches of the | | ~~ Sabbath Day Music 1.25 authors of the other lessons, see the | | Sacred Music For Piano Solo 1.50 following references in The Relief | | Sacred Piano Solos se-- 1.00 Society Magazine: ae Sacred Melodies With Variations 22 eee eeeeeeeeeee 1.25 Elder Leland H. Monson, (ilyeio51, | ieee. Sacred Piano Transcriptions 1.00 pase 47a =i mséds«COQE Sunday Piano Music (Boston) 1.25 Leone Openshaw Jacobs, July 1951, | | ------ Sunday Piano Music (Presser) 1.00 pees 47300 Oe SS mC Tranquil Hours 0000 0.-.---- 1.50 Rhea Hurst Gardner, June 1952, page 418. Music Sent on Approval Flder Briant S. Jacobs, July 1949, Use this advertisement as your order blank page 471. Nae ee:: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY:: 15 E. Ist South -: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. S/. [] On Approval [] Charge eeping oe [] Money Enclosed NOM ooo eeccccceeecsscseecenmmeeceserenceesncccesseecee Gertrude Kovan Address ooo cccccccccecceccceccsesesencsecncecseceseeccence Night has fallen on the lake— Spy /<eartate Silver iced, it gleams. | Errore Magic moonbeams softly trace Across forgotten dreams Of other nights when you and I | Daynes Miac Stood entranced by love, Not noting how the silence fell So quickly from above..15 E. Ist South 2260 WastnttOn BOD. CaDe 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO @" 2260 WASHINGTON BLVD, OGDEN HISTORIC TRAIN Write for information about the HISTORIC TRAIN that will include the great PAGEANT AT THE HILL CUMORAH. HAWAII Plan on going to Hawaii this Fall. We sail on November 9, 1956, from Los Angeles, California. For Complete Details, Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 GUS CSG eG eeeGece A nl ©, Cc ha t d Christie Lund Coles An orchard is the loveliest place In April decked in fairy lace; In summer, hung with crimson fruit, A place to hide, a place to loot; A spot to lie and see the sky, And watch cloud-images pass by, To dream as small birds chirp and sing An orchard is the loveliest thing. Page 414 She Sestimon y Plant Nancy M. Armstrong Wt all know that a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ is a living, growing thing. All living things need nourishment. When we have a particularly beautiful or rare plant in our gardens we give it extra care. We see that it has sunlight and water, cultivation and plant food. In the garden of life, what is more beautiful than a testimony of the gospel? It is indeed entitled to the choicest spot; to the best care and finest nourishment we can provide for it. A testimony draws its nourishment from activity in the work of the Lord, and in keeping his commandments. John Keats expressed the idea that "A thing of beauty is a joy forever." Surely this is true of a testimony. It is a source of joy to the one who possesses it, and a thing of beauty to all who come im contact with it. When a testimony is in full flowering, it bears many lovely blossoms of good deeds. The more bouquets one gives away to others, the more abundantly the testimony blooms. Like othe: growing things, a testimony can lie dormant for a period of time, but, if it receives no nourishment, it may wither away. Our first obligation is to see that our own testimonies are receiving all the sunlight and nourishment they need to keep them in full flowering. Our next duty ls to feel the responsibility to reach out to some fine sister whose testimony is lying dormant and help her bring it into bloom, so that her garden of life will be rich with the perfume "peace of mind"; the fragrance of every true testimony. &arly American Flooked Rug Design Elizabeth Williamson AY old quilt pattern [Early American] may be used in a hooked rug design. The use of two colors is effective, such as: navy blue on white, or the reverse, using white on navy blue background. Any color combination may be used to harmonize with the room decoration. The stronger the contrast the more striking the effect of the pattern. It's awaiting You & AES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles __..0 eesaD 150 to 300 miles _ 0.0000000 39 300 to 600 miles — 00 0. 45 600 to 1000 miles 0 254 1000 to 1400 miles — 000000000ce.64 1400 to 1800 miles 000 76 Over 1800 miles 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] fe) 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah ORDER NOW YOUR MUSIC FOR THE SINGING MOTHERS FOR SPECIAL EVENING SERVICE November 4th Teach Me, O Lord—S. S. A. By Hamblen __..20c each Plus Postage "Our Service Counts"' GLEN-BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah Page 415 1956 University of Utal, SUMMER SCHOOL Special Features June 11-July 20—Special Program for High School Graduates Techniques in study habits; help in choosing a vocation; instruction in use of slide rule; classes in Reading, Mathematics, English, French, German, and Spanish. June 18-July 27—Youth Program Swimming, tennis, team games, archery, etc.; arts and cratts; fun music; speech and dramatics; typing and driver education; language program: French, Spanish, and German (3 age groups—upper Elementary grades, Junior High, and High School). June 11-22—Writers' Conference June 17-23—Utah School of Alcohol Studies July 16-August 3—Workshop in Modern Methods of Clothing Construction July 23-August 10—Vocal Workshop August 6-10—Workshop in Personnel and Guidance August 6-24—Workshop on Creative Design in Millinery and Costume Accessories August 12-24—Group Development Laboratory August 13-24—Workshop: Modern Procedures in the Teaching of Reading MORE THAN TEN WORKSHOPS IN EDUCATION Ask for circulars and a catalog Dean of the Summer School 109 Annex UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Salt Lake City, Utah Page 416 Relief Society Courses of Study 1956-1957 THEOLOGY COURSE OF STUDY: 1. THE BOOK OF MORMON-—Library Edition (Regularly $2.00). — Sr$.98 "12¢ Postage LITERATURE COURSE OF STUDY: SHAKESPEARE IN OUR LIVES Textbook: 2. SHAKESPEARE'S MAJOR PLAYS AND THE SONNETS— G. B. Harrison: 2.2202 ececcec ce ceeeeseeceececeecnneneasonccececceseccens$6.00 15c Postage SOCIAL SCIENCE COURSE OF STUDY: LATTER-DAY SAINT FAMILY LIFE Reference Books: 3. JOSEPH SMITH, By his Mother Lucy Mack Smith $3.00 4. DOCUMENTARY HISTORY OF THE CHURCH (a) Volume TV oon cec cece eeecceeeeeeeeeceeeceee 1.25 (b) Voburme Vion ocec ccc vee cee ennteceeeeeeeee$1.25 15¢ Postage for Each Individual Volume The following other volumes of the Documentary History of the Church are also available: HisTORY 5. Complete set of seven volumes 0.0 0.---- $10.95 'ie (a) Volume I $3.00 (c) Volume Hl $1.25 " (b) Volume II $1.00 (d) Volume VI $1.25 CHUR': (e) Volume VII $3.00 Plus 65¢ postage for set; 15c postage for each individual volume DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account for the following amount re for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 4 (a) (b) 5 (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) 4 Eas South Temple Salt take City. Utah eo IDA FP-10-209-46925 DEC 56 When theyre counting on you The look of trust and faith in the children's eyes MEET YOUR.. M FRIENDLY has nothing to do with the printed words in the book. BENEFICIAL LIFE It's the faith and trust that most children have in their sure you're getting the of your family, its financial needs, and the amount bets you do. He has your Beneficial Building, Dept. RF gue AGENT;. On. OSONe When did you last parents—and it means big responsibilities for you. Check your life insurYour Beneficial Life Insurance helps you meet these ance policies to make responsibilities wisely and well. You can tailor your most for your money 5. ' and the best for you? Beneficial Life Planned Futures program to the size This is a job your Beneficial man can you can afford to pay. The training and experience to help you ee e round out your insur-.. You can count on Beneficial Li ife INSuUrance 22° seme may be That's what we mean We ee ee ee nen eee So cee -7 Seine today for helpful folder on py hes ae i BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Planned Futures. No. Obligation, of ceanian Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me a copy of your free booklet, '/Planned Futures." /s your " Susuunee Lifefasuranes Company B Street RED uu.. Ceceneececenecceeecceeeesreeeseeceserees:,. 
