12 The Gift Supreme By Hugh B. Brown Yuletide is a season of gifts. We remember our friends and those whom we love and we try to express the love in some measure by giving presents. In appraising the value of any present we give or receive, we take into acocunt the motive which prompts it, its value to the one who receives it and the cost to the giver. Does love inspire the giver, does he give of himself? What sacrifice does the giving entail? Also, its value may vary according to the situation or condition of the recipient. Obviously if he is hungry or naked and we give him food or clothing or if he is in prison and we visit him and bring succor and release, the value of our gift to him can not be measured in terms of money. His need determines the value. Imagine yourself under sentence of death with no right of appeal, no hope of a pardon, unable to do anything to save yourself; doomed in the darkness to await the execution, desiring without hope. Imagine, too, that all whom you love are sentenced to a like fate and together you sit in dreadful longing, helpless, hopeless, and forlorn. What would an Opportunity to escape from such a fate mean to you? Suppose the judge had an only son who was able and willing to purchase your freedom with his life. The judge, his father, can give or refuse this costly gift, the life of his son. Would not such a gift make all things of a material value appear insignificant? Would not you and your descendants celebrate with proper observance such relief and redemption? BECAUSE of the transgression of Adam, all men are sentenced to a two-fold death; death of the body, and spiritual death?separation from God through sin. Men were doomed to await the night of death with no hope of a morning to follow that night. The tomb was a blind alley and death a dread monster. Death which separates man from all he has learned to love; wealth, fond association, friendship. | When it beckons, husband and wife must part; children and parents are separated. How universal and how sad. It comes to childhood, to youth, and to old age, but whenever it comes it is a terror to the human heart. There is the dread of the unknown and into it we all must go. Life is so short and so disappointing even to the most fruitful of lives, and until 766 Christ came, life was hopeless, death permanent. In addition to the sentence of mortality and physical death which resulted from the fall of Adam, sin and spiritual death came into the world. As physical death is a result of the separation of the spirit from the body, so spiritual death results from the withdrawing of the spirit of God from man. "Wherefore, it came to pass that the devil tempted Adam, and he partook of the forbidden fruit and transgressed the commandment, wherein he became subject to the will of the devil, because he yielded unto temptation. Wherefore, I, the Lord God, caused that he should be cast out from the Garden of Eden, from my presence, because of his transgression, wherein he became spiritually dead, which is the first death, even that same death which is the last death, which is spiritual, which shall be pronounced upon the wicked when I shall say: depart, ye cursed." (D. & C. 29: 40, 41.) On the subject of spiritual life and spiritual death, Elder B. H. Roberts has written: "Spiritual life, being union with, relation to and participation in all the higher and better things: the good, the true, the beautiful, the pure, the refined, the noble, the courageous, the unselfish, the merciful; united with perfect justice, knowledge, wisdom, power, intelligence. To be identified with and to participate in these moral and spiritual qualities and the life of it, is and must be God, and to so deport oneself that he is thrown out of harmony with all this, separated. From it, means separation from him who is the life of all this volume of higher and better things, this body of soul qualities, this ocean of righteousness?to be separated from it, I say, is death indeed! Yes, spiritual death; death as real as any physical RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE death can be. For what would consciousness amount to if it were only a consciousness of evil that had befallen it?" IN THIS situation then, man was helpless. There was no price that he could pay which would redeem him from the fall. The judge, in this case, God, had a son who could satisfy the demands of justice, redeem men from the fall and open the gate to immortality. Our Father made this priceless gift; our Savior paid the debt. "Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: _the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed." (Isa. 53:4, 5) "The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord." "For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive." The full benefit of the atonement, however, comes to us only upon condition of our obedience to the Gospel plan. We must accept this plan and comply with its ordinances by "performing the symbols which stand for its reality." We must repent of sin, return from it, sin no more, and when we have fully repented and complied with that other requirement of the Gospel, namely. Water baptism, immersion of the entire body, representing death, burial, and the resurrection, when we have done these things and have been confirmed by those having authority and have received the gift of the Holy Ghost, we are in the way to become recipients of all the blessings of the atonement of Jesus Christ and to have that continuous fellowship with him which shall be the reward of THE GIFT SUPREME the faithful. Obedience is as necessary as the plan itself. Obedience is evidence of acceptance, and no plan, however perfect, is fully effective unless accepted and worked. But while it is necessary that we accept and obey the Gospel, it is a free gift to all men, beneficial in part without regard to their own action, and in full by obedience to the laws upon which its blessings are predicated. WHAT then of the value or importance of this gift of God? this Gospel plan, including the atonement of Christ. "What does it mean, this salvation! It means to be put in the way of eternal progression; to be associated with the church of the First Born, both on earth and in heaven; to be associated with angels and archangels as companions and guides; increasing in knowledge and wisdom with the passing years. Having triumphed over death, physical and spiritual, there is no more fear of death, or estoppage in the path of progress. With good men for associates and God for leader and guide, men may go on and up the shining heights of God's great highway, until they make themselves masters of the surrounding universe in the midst of which they live. Light and intelligence and love will be aglow in their hearts then. All the beautiful relationships that were 767 formed in earth-life will be re-established there; husband and wife, children and parents, kindred and friends, knitted together in kinship and brotherhood; all this will abound; touching the life of that brotherhood which binds God's moral and spiritual universe together through the union of all the great Intelligences governing _ therein. Those who participate in this Gospel, in this salvation, will be members of such brotherhood, going on in spiritual, moral, and_ intellectual progress without limitation!'' (Roberts.) Without the atonement of Christ, man would have remained in darkness, not only without a hope of resurrection from the dead but doomed to suffer that spiritual death which comes through sin. His poSition, then, was desperate, was hopeless, and without a redeemer he was lost. But the Gospel plan, the gift supreme, inspired by the love of God?involving a supreme sacrifice on the part of the giver brings life everlasting, eternal joy and endless progress to all who accept its benefits. "Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to be a propitiation for our sins." (Jno. 4:10.) "Thanks be to God for Hts unspeakable gift.' (II Cor. 9:15.)