Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? CHRISTMAS CANDLES TAKE TIME To Live By Lella Marler Hoggan "My feet may tread the lowlands, But I-I scale the heights, And view the ways of destiny By Heaven's gleaming lights ?Grace Ingles Frost. ARE we getting all of the sweetness and joy and development, all of the soul growth and real worthwhile happiness out of life & that we desire? Are we reaching out for higher revelations of truth, for "life more abundant"? Or, are we so occupied with the hurries and worries of every day, the transient changing activities that clutter the path of progress, that we have little time for contemplation of the eternal values of life?, How much of our time do we waste brooding over lost yesterdays, and day-dreaming of the glamorous tomorrows that will never materialize? How many days do we live fully, joyously? Days so complete in their fruition that they bring to the heart silent prayers of gratitude? Many of us find our hands so filled with the occupations of livelihood that we fail to make time for life itself. We become so engrossed in |surrounding ourselves with comforts and conveniences that we lose the art of living. We are not so different SS er n6 Ss from the little girl who called to her playmate, ?Nancy, we've been all this time getting ready to play, and now our mothers are calling us before we even get started." If life's values were price tagged we would lament our slender purses, but the rarer gifts, the eternal treasures being free for the taking, we hesitate to accept them ?With Pan," by Grace Ingles Frost. 790. We are often very reluctant in surrendering physical comfort for spiritual development. From day to day we permit ourselves to be hurried along with the throng. Our own high purposes are shelved in order that we may fill our time with the changing fads and fancies of the day, the instabilities that are here but an hour and are then forgotten. "Just over the next little hill," we assure ourselves, "there will be a quiet path leading into solitude and meditation, where we shall sit down and mark out the pattern of our dreams." But the pause in the onrush of life never comes, unless we are brave enough to step out of line and take it. It requires time and courage, work and faith to make dreams come true. But those who cherish a dream and who are ready to make their lives a devotion to its fulfillment, shall find strength sufficient unto their needs. "Heaven stoops under our roof" more often that we realize. Our eyes are so dimmed with the shadows of materialism that we fail to recognize Divinity in the burning bush. God's manna is spread all along life's way, but we must gather our portion while the day is young. If we wait until the shadows lengthen it will be too late. The most precious gifts of life will elude us unless we make preparation to receive them and then retain them by a wise and proper use. "For most of us," says Gove Hambidge, "the path to the stars lies through simple and immediate things."
LET us take time for the little priceless joys of every day that will make life richer and sweeter. Why not begin this very morning, no doubt or fear.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
doing some of the lovely things that we have waited all through the years to do? Let us put by our first coin, today, towards the purchase of that beautiful picture that will give us inspiration every time we look at it; that piece of handiwork, that will give play to our creative ability; the inspired book, that will satisfy our heart's longing; the sheet of music, that will be a singing melody to our soul. Let us find time for a moving picture of rare beauty or bubbling mirth, now and then. Let us make a place on our program for the lovely lessons that are prepared for our inspiration and spiritual growth. Is there not an odd hour now and then, that can be spent with some relative or friend who is shut in and lonely? There are numberless joyous adventures, beautiful soul-stirring experiences that may be had for the taking, if we will find time for them. It requires time for companionship with our children, for the games and songs and picture books that sweeten the life of the small child. It takes time for comradeship with our fellows, for communion with our God. Bulwer Lytton said: "There is no unbelief. 'Whoever plants a seed beneath the sod And waits to see it push away the clod Trusts in God." Man has an upward reaching for communion with the divine, a deep desire for fundamental truths, an instinctive yearning for the beautiful. Should we not satisfy these demands of the soul? It takes time to enjoy the beauties of nature, to read the lovely books that enrich life, to build up an inner spiritual strength, a susceptibility to divine guidance, a faith that knows It takes time to
"Take Time To Live," by Gove Hambidge, McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York.
LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY
live. Of course it does. But what is life, after all, if it fails to yield us joy and peace and satisfaction? God meant our lives to be radiant, beautiful, glorious. Did not He declare, "Man is that he might have joy"?
THE gift of all gifts that is most to be desired, is the everlasting Gospel of the Master. "It is the power of God unto salvation." When we walk in the darkness of despondency it is a light to our feet. In the midst of turmoil and confusion it calms our fears. When we are deep in sorrow it comforts and heals our breaking hearts. In the hour of defeat, it gives us wings for new flight. Surely nothing else in life is so precious, so entirely worth cherishing. And yet we become so absorbed with the trivial demands of every day, that we sometimes forget. Even when we are making preparations for that holy day, the anniversary of His birth, we are beset by many cares. Our festive red candles send out Christmas cheer to the guest and the stranger alike. But do we take time to watch the soft light of a lone white taper, the light that breathes
791
a spirit of prayer, of solemn gratitude for His supreme sacrifice for all men? His gospel is the scintillating candle of truth whose rays will light our feet into paths of peace. Are we too busy to take time for the glorious blessings it holds? Are we too hurried to kneel in prayer, to look up at the stars in the silent night? Surely, on this day of days, we should take time for these blessed joys. This excerpt from Grace Noll Crowell's beautiful poem, "Leisure," is a challenge to each of us in our hurried preparations for His natal day:
"I shall have leisure?I shall go out alone From my roof and my door, I shall not miss the silver silence of stars As I have before, And Oh; perhaps if I stand there very still And very long, I shall hear what the clamor of living has kept from me: The angel's song!"
"Leisure," by Grace Noll Crowell, Published in Good Housekeeping Magazine, New York City. Special arrangement has been made with the authors and publishers, for the use of the excerpts in this article.