Notes from the Field Julia A. F, Lund?General Secretary
MOTHERS AND BABIES OF PRESCOTT BRANCH, CALIFORNIA MISSION
California Mission
THAT young mothers throughout the Church are coming to realize the great value of Relief Society, and what it offers to them, is evidenced by the report from the California Mission. The above picture is that of the mothers and the babies. There are thirty-one babies included in the picture, twenty-two more, all under four years of age, belong to the group. To quote the report from the mission: "We have a wonderful Society of young mothers. There are still a few in our branch who have not yet joined us, but we think they will soon be numbered in our organization. We are very proud of our young Relief Society mothers and babies. We older sisters appreciate them so much. They are excellent workers and have the enthusiasm of youth, which is so inspirational to all of us." The Relief Society is conducting a splendid educational program, the influence of which will be very extensive.
Brazilian Mission
FROM far away Brazil we have an example of the great force for cooperative effort which is to be found in our Relief Society organization. Quoting from a letter from Sister Mary Howells, President of the Mission Relief Societies, we have the following: "Among the families in Joinville Branch Relief Society, a very fine piece of work was accomplished. The people have very few of the necessary household medicines and articles so valuable in family use. Through the cooperation of one of the large supply houses in Sao Paulo, a great quantity of irregular end materials were made available at a very low price. The material was sent to the Joinville Branch, where the Relief Society diligently made small boxes out of
 
FIRST AID KITS PREPARED BY JOINVILLE BRANCH, BRAZILIAN MISSION
pasteboard, and filled little tins with healing salve, and small bottles with antiseptics and greatly needed medicines. In this way First Aid kits were prepared and donated by the Relief Society to those who needed them. The Relief Society Teachers distributed these among the poor families, and by this means gained many friends and investigators. Acts of this kind do much to allay prejudice among the people. The snapshot was taken while the sisters were at work, and shows the kits when they were completed. We are endeavoring to organize more societies in other parts of our mission, and we feel that our work is progressing."
Swedish Mission
THE Relief Societies of Sweden held their first mission-wide conference in Stockholm in June of this year. It was well planned and showed the efficient leadership of a
CONFERENCE PAGEANT, STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Mission Board composed of local members. The reports of representatives from all parts of Sweden showed that good work is being done in the branches, and that where possible, the activities and the lessons as outlined are being followed. There was one public meeting wherein the ideals of the Relief Society were well presented to a large audience. Three Relief Society songs, which had been translated into Swedish by one of our sisters, were sung at the meeting. Perhaps the outstanding event was the pageant, "Back to the Scriptures." This, too, had been translated, and was presented under the direction of a local sister. The picture is of that particular pageant. Visiting members were guests at a dinner, and the following day toured the city, visiting many of the educational centers, and they were particularly interested in that of the cooperatives. The conference was
799
undoubtedly a great inspiration for another year's successful work.
French Mission
SISTER HANNAH URSENBACH writes: "Although it is only the beginning of the season, many of the Sisters have expressed their gratitude for our program, and we are looking forward to a very successful Relief Society year. During the Summer some of our branches have had a vacation, others have reviewed the lessons, while still others have taken up the study of the Bible. We have held Daughters' Day socials, and the picture below is one of such groups which was held in Liege. Most gratifying results have followed the efforts made in this direction. Our branch conferences will be held during the months of October and November, and we are sure these will do much toward arousing interest in our work.
DAUGHTERS' DAY, LIEGE, BELGIUM
800
Ensign Stake
THE following instructive note is furnished by Radie O. Hyde, President of Ensign Stake Relief Society. The social side, as well as the economic and educational angle of our program, is well developed: "At the Ensign Stake Union Meeting a demonstration of our bread-making project outlined by the General Board was conducted by Sister Vilate Blaney, Stake Work Supervisor, and Ward Supervisors. The bread-makers wore crisp starched cottons. The demonstration began at nine o'clock, beginning with washing of hands and proceeded as though none of those present had ever made bread. All equipment and ingredients necessary for making raised rolls and loaves of whole wheat and white bread were provided. Because we learn more by doing things than by watching things being done, the Ward Supervisors made the bread under the direction of the Stake Supervisor. During the time the bread was rising, recipes for variations of raised breads were copied, such as raisin bread, ice box rolls, London Hot Cross Buns, and cakes. Before the two o'clock meeting our rolls and loaves were baked and exhibited. A luncheon was served at 12:30 using rolls we had made. The afternoon lesson dealt with health and nutritional values of various breads. The Supervisors of the Ensign Stake are repeating this demonstration in their Wards on the November work day. Since bread is such an important food, this project will be invaluable."
Chicago Stake
ALTHOUGH Chicago is one of our very new stakes, it is certainly beginning its history under
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
most favorable auspices. The President writes: "We feel very happy and much encouraged in our stake work. Distance here is a problem as in some of our other Stakes, however, at our Union Meeting in October, we had practically a full presidency from each of the eight Wards. The Ward Conferences were scheduled for October and November. The object of this was to acquaint the members of the ward or branch with the work done in Relief Society, and to show every mother the opportunity Relief Society offers. A plan and suggestions for the conference were sent to each Ward from the Stake Board. The following is a very brief summary of the material outlined.
"Work and Business Department: Home-making?Real home-making, not just housekeeping, is a stepping stone toward a more abundant life, a key to a full and happy life; it is the foundation of harmony and happiness in the home. A smoothly run home makes for more harmonious living, and paves the way toward more unity and understanding in the hearts and minds of the individual members of the family. Therefore, we should see a real need for studying home-making and profiting by every suggestion and thought that may be given. The following were then suggested as assignments for five minute talks: A well-planned home?budgeting effort, time and income; Economic Problems ? bread-making, sewing, laundering, gardening; Leisure time; Greater solidarity in family life; Consumer's Problems. Suggestions were given for the Social Service, Theology, Literary, Teacher Topic, and Visiting Teacher Departments, as well as for the Relief Society Magazine.

 
THE GENERAL BOARD
Jennie B, Knight Nettie D, Bradford Emma A. Empey Marcia K. Howells Annie Wells Cannon Emeline Y. Nebeker Lalene H. Hart Mary Connelly Kimball Cora L. Bennion Janet M. Thompson Amy Whipple Evans Donna Durrant Sorensen Rosannah C, Irvine Vivian R. McConkie Ida P. Beal Leda T. Jensen Belle S. Spafford Beatrice F. Stevens
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: Editor........................Mary Connelly Kimball Manager......................Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager............Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXIV DECEMBER, 1937 No.