HEARTSONG Gertrude Perry Stanton If I might choose the richest gift That Providence could impart, *Twould not be beauty, wealth nor fame,? Just the boon of a singing heart. For life and love are harsh sometimes, And stinging tears will start,? But with courage I will lift my head And carry a song in my heart. . Life Eyam By Mary Ek Knowles HE silent men tenderly laid | their burdens on the bed, and heads bared filed out of the room. At the door the last man paused and spoke, his voice gruffly kind. 'Time is short, Sister Smith. We fear the mob." The door closed and Lucy Mack Smith was alone with her dead. For a moment she remained standing at the side of the bed, her eyes wide, her fingers pressed tightly against her mouth as if to hold back the screams that threatened to burst from her lips. Then with a dry sob she fell to her knees, her arms outstretched across the lifeless forms of her two sons. For this she had carried her sons tenderly within the walls of her body; for this she had gone down into the valley of the shadow of death that they might have life; for this, that on a sultry summer night she might stand in a dimly-lit, shuttered room and look down upon the bodies of her sons, murdered at the hands of a mob! Where now was the power and the glory! Where now the flame of faith, burning like a fire on the mountain top! Her sons were dead! She raised her head, her eyes tenderly caressing the dear lines of the faces, and her heart was a wounded thing, torn and bleeding in her breast. Joseph and Hyrum. Tall, splendid men, foully struck down in the prime of their lives. And why, why! Where was the justice... Men, now... But she had held them as babes in her arms, helpless and_ infinitely dear; on bended knees, with outstretched arms she had guided their first faltering steps; she had felt their chubby, warm hands trustingly in her own.... She too was dead. Her body lived, but her heart, her soul had died. How could she bear this thing. She was but human! She gave way to loud, passionate weeping, and the nervous shuffle of feet sounded in the next room. She checked her sobs. She must be quiet. Even now the mob might be near, eager to descend like vultures and tear the lifeless forms limb from limb. Those men in the next room knew, they had reason to be afraid. With their own eyes they had seen a crowd of men turn suddenly from humans into animals, blood-thirsty and insane; with their own ears they had heard the voice of the mob grow from a rippling murmur to a maddened roar! They had seen Hyrum and _ the Prophet murdered in cold blood. They had rescued the bodies during that brief respite when the mob, appalled by the enormity of the crime they had committed, fled, as though in fleeing the scene of the crime they could forget what they had done. Those men in the next room knew. And she had known. That silver cord between mothers and their children, was it ever severed? In the dead of the night the sharp report of a shot had awakened her, and her first thought had been of Hyrum and Joseph. In the hours that followed she had attempted to reassure herself. "They are in jail, but they are safe. Justice will be shown them. The false charges will be dropped and they will be freed." But there had been no answering echo in her heart. She had known they were dead.