Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson 6 CHRIST AND THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION ~ Helpful References In the Bible: Isaiah 25:8; 26:19; Ezekiel 37:1- 13; Hosea 13:14; Matthew 16:21; 20:17-19; 22:23-32; 27:52, 53; 28:1-18; Luke 24:30-46; John 5: 21, 25-29; 11:23-26; 20:11-29; 21:1-14; Acts 23:6-8; 24:14, 15; 26:6-8; 22, 23; I Corinthians 15: 3, 12-23, 29, 35-55; Revelation 20:5, 6, 12-14. In the Book of Mormon: 2 Nephi 10:25; Mosiah 15:20-25; 16:6-11; Alma 11:42-45; 40; Helaman 14:15-17, 25; 3 Nephi 11:1-17; 23:7-12. In the Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 29:13, 26; 42:45; 45:54; 63: 17, 18, 51, 52; 76:15-17, 39, 50, 64, 65, 85; 88:14, 16, 27, 28, 97- 99, 101; 128:12; 130:18; 132:7, 19. Smith, The Way To Perfection: Chapters 41, 42, 43, 45. Smith, Gospel Doctrine: pp. 547-601. Talmage, Jesus the Christ: Chapters 37, 38, 39. Talmage, Articles of Faith: Chapter 21. 1. The Prophets Understood the Doctrine of the Resurrection?Centuries before the coming of Christ the Prophets understood the doctrine of the resurrection. They looked forward to His coming and knew that He should be put to death. But they had a perfect assurance that He would have power in Himself to burst the bands of death, and thus bring about the resurrection of those who did not have power in themselves to arise. It is recorded of Enoch as follows: "And the Lord said unto Enoch: Look, and he looked and beheld the Son of Man lifted up on the cross, after the manner of men; and he heard a loud voice; and the heavens were veiled; and all the creations of God mourned; and the earth groaned; and the rocks were rent; and the saints arose, and were crowned at the right hand of the Son of Man, with crowns of glory." (Moses 7:55, 56) Isaiah testifies plainly of the resurrection. "Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead." (Isaiah 26:19) The prophecy of Ezekiel concerning the valley of dry bones (37:1-13) is a plain allusion to the doctrine of the resurrection. There are those who hold that the doctrine of the resurrection arose relatively late among the Hebrew people. The Book of Mormon makes it reasonably certain such doctrine is not true. The Nephite prophets who lived prior to Christ's coming spoke plainly of his resurrection and of the redemption He was to consummate. Thus Lehi, speaking of the Messiah, said, '""Who layeth down his life according to the flesh, and taketh it again by the power of the Spirit, that he may bring to pass the resurrection of the dead, being the first that should rise." (2 Nephi 2:8) The Brass Plates were undoubtedly a valuable source of information to the Nephites respecting LESSON DEPARTMENT the doctrine of the resurrection. In these plates were embodied the teachings of the prophets of Israel prior to 600 B. C., concerning the mission of Christ. The Book of Mormon quotes from the Brass Plates the prophecies of three men not mentioned in our present Old Testament. These prophets were Neum, Zenock, and Zenos. All three predicted Christ's last sufferings, and some of them the great destruction to take place at His crucifixion. (1 Nephi 19:10-16; 3 Nephi 10:14-16) While it is true they are not quoted specifically concerning the resurrection, there can be little doubt that they did actually predict it. (Read carefully Jacob 6:1, 8, 9; 4:4-6) 2. The Savior Predicted His Resurrection.?During His ministry the Savior made numerous allusions to His forthcoming resurrection. Matthew records that "From that time forth began Jesus to shew unto his disciples, how that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day." (16:21) Jesus said to Martha after the death of Lazarus, "I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live." (John 11:25) Matthew still further states, "And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said unto them, The Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men: and 'they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised again. And they were exceeding sorry." (17:22, 23) These statements and many others show how well the Christ knew what his mission was to be. Only by conquering death and thus making it possible for all men to again receive their bodies, and that in an immortal state, could He make it possible for mankind to progress eternally and to have joy in that progression. 807 3. Christ's Allusions to His Resurrection Not at First Understood. ?lIt is interesting to note that the disciples of Christ did not fully understand His references to His early death and resurrection. While He was with them in the ministry, they seemed incapable of grasping the full significance of His statements. His leadership and wisdom, His unusual spirituality and personality, coupled with His relative youth, doubtless combined to distract the attention of the disciples away from the possibility of His early death and resurrection. Those of us in the Church can understand how this could be. Weare perfectly sure that the prophet Joseph Smith realized for some time prior to his death that he would have to be sacrificed in order to seal his testimony. The apostles and lay members of the Church evidently did not fully realize this. Hence the death of the Prophet was a great shock to the Church at large. In the Gospel of Mark it is recorded, "And as they came down from the mountain, he charged them that they should tell no man what things they had seen, till the Son of man were risen from the dead. And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning one with another what the rising from the dead should mean." (9:9, 10) In verses 31 and 32 of the sane chapter we read, "For he taught his disciples, and said unto them, The Son of man is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him; and after that he is killed, he shall rise the third day. But they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him." Other testimony to the same effect is shown in the case of the doubting Thomas (John 20:27-29; see also Luke 18:31-34; John 2:19-22; Matthew 28:16-18). 4. What Happened After Christ's Resurrection??The resurrection of the Savior must have been a glorious 808 event to the spirits of righteous men who had laid down their bodies in death prior to the time of His birth. They had waited long for the restoration of their bodies. What a joyful union it must have meant to them! Many were permitted to visit people on the earth. "And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose, and came out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many." (Matthew 27: 52, 53). The Christ while visiting the Nephites after His resurrection said, "How be it that ye have not written this thing, that many saints did arise and appear unto many and did minister unto them? And it came to pass that Nephi remembered that this thing had not been written. And it cdme to pass that Jesus commanded that it should be written; therefore it was written according as he commanded." (3 Nephi 23:11-13) Shortly after the Savior's resurrection He appeared numerous times to His Apostles and doubtless personally directed their course in the building up of the Church. The testimony of so many witnesses is indeed impressive. Added to the New Testament testimony is that of the Book of Mormon. The most glorious descriptions in all literature of the resurrected Christ are to be found in 3 Nephi. Not only did Christ appear to the Nephites, but so far as we can tell He also appeared to the lost tribes of Israel. "And verily, verily, I say unto you that I have other sheep, which are not of this land, neither of the land of Jerusalem, neither in any parts of that land round about whither I have been to minister.... But I have received a commandment of the Father that I shall go unto them, and that they shall hear my voice, and shall be numbered among my sheep." (3 Nephi 16:1, 3) Some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE day we can expect to read their record of His appearance to them. (2 Nephi 29:13) 5. The Resurrection Is the Great Christian Hope?The hope of a glorious resurrection is perhaps uppermost in the minds of most believers in Christ. The living of a full rich life here and now can hardly help but implant in man the desire to carry on at a higher level hereafter. In the words of Paul, "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable." (1 Corinthians 15:19) Questions 1. What is meant by the first resurrection? Explain Alma 40:16; see also Mosiah 15:20. 2. What is meant by the second resurrection? 3. Can you think of the names of any individuals who were resurrected some time after Christ's resurrection? 4. How many witnesses can you cite to the actuality of the resurrection? Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit. 1. State how a knowledge of the actuality of the resurrection can contribute to right living. 2. Read 1 Corinthians 15:53, 55 and compare Mosiah 16:7, 8; Alma 22:14. Account for the similarities in language of the two records. Hint: Read Isaiah 25:8 and Hosea 13:14. 3. Point out the contributions of the Doctrine and Covenants to our knowledge of the resurrection. 4. Show what sources of knowledge we have of the intermediate state of the soul, between death and the resurrection. LESSON DEPARTMENT 809 Teacher's Topic Lesson 6 Humitity or Jesus "Whosoever shall not receive the Kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein."?Luke 18:17 "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls."'?Matthew 11:28-29. HEN Jesus said he was meek and lowly of heart he did not mean that he had a low estimate of his powers for on other occasions he said, "I am the light of the world," "I am the way, the truth and the life," "No man knoweth the Father but the Son." It is generally accepted that by humility Jesus meant teachableness, docility, willingness to learn. Also willingness to serve, freedom from arrogance, vanity and ambition. Jesus did not stand on the dignity of his position but came down and mingled withall classes that he might understand and serve them. He exhibited no condescension, he never patronized. On one occasion Jesus took a little one and placed him in the midst and said, "whoever shall humble himself as a little child the same shall be great in the kingdom of heaven." In what way is a little child humble? First of all he is teachable. He is all eagerness and willingness to learn. His mind is always open for truth. In this respect he is humble. Also a little child is free from vanity. He will play in contentment with the most lowly companion. He knows nothing of social ambition. He makes no arbitrary distinctions in people but has the power to a great degree to make the true estimate of character and to base his approval or disapproval on real worth. His mother, no matter how lowly her position, is as great to him as a queen of a nation, so simple and beautiful is the heart of a child. Jesus could do nothing with the Pharisees because they possessed no humility. They were not teachable, they knew everything, they were ambitious and self-seeking, they were vain and boastful of their goodness and their superiority to others. On another occasion Jesus said, "Whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant. For even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many." There are so many instances in the New Testament of the way Jesus humbly served those with whom he was associated, showing what true humility is. He was always giving up his rights, refusing to use his power. He had many opportunities to wreak vengeance on his enemies but he did not. His humility was a form of strength. Paul says that Jesus "made himself of no reputation and became obedient unto death even the death on the cross. And therefore hath God highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that he is Lord indeed." Discussion Give incidents from the New Testament showing the humility of Jesus. What are the character traits of a little child which show the humility of which Jesus spoke? What are the rewards of the "meek and lowly in heart?"  Literature Lesson 6 THE ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE IT may be somewhat of a surprise for many of our readers to find this book listed among biographies. However, the writer has felt that The Old Playhouse, called by Henry Miller "The Cathedral in the Desert," has a personality, is a personality. Around it clung?around its memory still cling?some of the fondest recollections of cultural moments in the upward climb towards culture of an earnest and seeking people. The Old Playhouse was a temple builded to the arts in a day when life was somewhat rough and uncouth. Hundreds of people who had left comfortable homes in communities of culture, found within its walls food for their hungering souls. George D. Pyper, author of this book and the last manager of the Old Playhouse, was born the very year in which excavation for the building began. Those who believe in the guidance of the stars might easily hold the fact to be momentous that a theatre sprang up on his exact birthplace, the stage of what is now the Victory Theatre, Salt Lake City, being located where his cradle once stood. Among his earliest recollections were those of the old Salt Lake Theatre. Always he dreamed of some day being connected with the majestic building and what it stood for. Early in his career Superintendent George D. Pyper connected himself with musical organizations. Possessing a sweet, lyric tenor voice, he became first tenor of a quartette which was in great demand. He also played leading roles in various operas presented in the Old Playhouse. But the joy of his life came when he was asked to become the manager of the theatre which he had adored all through his young manhood. For approximately thirty years George D. Pyper was manager of the Playhouse and brought to Salt Lake City the finest road attractions to be found in the United States. Some of the greatest actors and actresses that ever graced the American stage played behind the footlights of the beloved theatre. On October 20, 1928, the farewell entertainment was held in the old building whose doom had been sealed and whose beloved stage and walls and roof and proscenium would soon be no more. Fortunately for all of us, George D. Pyper, who loved, the theatre with an abiding love, has given us "The Romance of an Old Playhouse." This book we are to study in our next four lessons, including this one. "One day more than thirty years ago," said George D. Pyper in his foreword, "Heber J. Grant, then owning a controlling interest in the Salt Lake Theatre, now President of