Study Sociology? By Harold T. Christensen Y THE statement, "It is not good that the man should be alone,' the Lord intended to illustrate the natural relationship between man and woman existing in marriage according to plan. It has, however, even wider application than this. Groups of men may be companions to each other as well as may groups of women. Furthermore, mixed groups contain the element of companionship even where the marriage relation does not exist. Life as we know it is essentially group life. Living entirely alone is extremely rare in society, and where it does occur it is accompanied by a shrivelling of personality, and the individual so isolated develops characteristics which are odd, infantile, and sometimes savage. You and I were given birth by others. We grow and develop with the help of others, and we can be made happy only through the association and companionship of those around us. The abundant life is group life, and I repeat, "It is not good for man to be alone." But even though this group phenomenon makes possible the happiness of man it certainly does not ensure or guarantee such happiness. Sometimes the interactions of human beings one with another are unbalanced, lop-sided, or disharmonious; while sometimes they result in the supreme joy which God intended. Too often the associations of men with each other result in sensuous satisfactions or even discomfort and sorrow. Hence the need for understanding the nature of group relationships, that social frictions might be eliminated and social harmony established. Sociology is intended to meet this need. The science of sociology may be defined, as that science which deals with the behavior of men in groups, and is specifically concerned with person to person contacts, with person to group contacts, and with group to group contacts. Sociology is distinct from economics, which is the study of the production, distribution and consumption of wealth; it is distinct from political science, which is concerned with the structure and function of government; and it is distinct from others of social sciences which, like these mentioned, are each concerned with only one phase of the entire field of social interaction. Sociology, being the science of group behavior, draws material from every corner of human culture. WHY Study Sociology? Of what value is an understanding of the nature of the human relationships? The world today is almost lost in an avalanche of social turmoil?wars and revolutions, poverty and famine, political corruption, crime, suicide, all bearing mute evidence of a ruptured humanity. "Man is that he might have joy," and yet social relationships have become so perverted and corrupted that the happiness which might have been, scarcely exists. Witness the fact that from fifteen to twenty thousand individuals in the United States every year wilfully take their own lives, and the suicide rates throughout the world are on the increase. I am sure that if these individuals understood the spiritual possibilities in the Church, and the harmony possible 772 in social relationships, their fingers would hesitate at the trigger, because then they would know that life, after all, is worth living. All is not well with the world today, and sociology can be one means to the end of setting it right and establishing happiness. HAT the importance of social study might be further emphasized, it will be well to consider briefly a few of the major contemporary social problems existing in the world today. These will certainly not represent all of the maladjustments rampant in society, but they will at least suggest the nature and extent of contemporary social disorganization, and disorganization must be understood before reorganization can commence. Let us consider, then, the following in the order given: 1. Family Problems. 2. Economic Insecurity. 3. Ill Health. 4. Crime. 5. War. HE family has been considered the most basic of all social institutions, and rightly so I think, for it is the group that first gives man membership and initiates him into the complexities of social life. The early family formed the hub of social existence. In it birth, marriage. Death and all of the vital events of life, took place. In it children were educated for the moral and social problems of the day. In the early family religion found a center, as likewise did economic life, recreation and government. But as society has moved onward, untold numbers of new social groups have come into existence, and in doing so have come into competition with the family. As a result the family has been robbed of many of these original social functions and is left today stripped, weak, and tottering. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Any organization is justified in existence by the functions it performs, and when it ceases to function it ceases to exist. What has happened in regards to the family? At the present time education has largely gone out of the home; government is almost entirely in the hands of the State; recreation has been turned over to commercial agencies; economic life, which was formerly on the family basis has now been placed almost entirely on an individual basis; religion, with the possible exception of the ideal "Mormon" family, has passed from the protecting care of the family; and soon. With the birthrate decreasing rapidly, as it is today, it even looks as though the reproductive function of the family is also passing away; in fact, many authorities in sociology agree that about the only leg left for the family to stand on is the affectional bond existing between husband and wife, and some even claim that this affectional function is also going from the home. Genuine affection is being supplanted by a shallow sentimentalism known as romance. Real love, which consists, I am sure, of intellectual companionship and spiritual harmony, as well as physical and emotional attraction, is being replaced by a croon song, "live happily ever after' sort of thing, which is warping the judgment of our young people, making them feel that there is nothing serious to marriage, no thought, no preparation, no sacrifice, making our young people feel that eternal happiness is assured them if only the "one and only" is captured?and too often the capturing process consists of displaying physical charms and intellectual emptiness. Love is being robbed of its intellectual and spiritual qualities, and what is left can only result in failure. Authorities in discussing this problem refer to it frequently WHY STUDY SOCIOLOGY? As the ''romantic fallacy." Now the romantic fallacy is not a fallacy in the existence of romance and affection, for certainly every marriage should have this tender element to lubricate the social relationships if nothing else. The romantic fallacy, however, consists of the existence of romance in a disproportionate amount, the existence of romance, in the absence of some of the more fundamental functions of the family such as reproduction, economics, education and so on. What is needed ls a deflation of romance, and an inflation of some of the more substantial elements entering into love and marriage. The family today is in a sorry plight. The 1930 census revealed that there was one divorce for every six marriages in the United States, and the divorce rate was still on the increase. This means that at the present time we have about one divorce for every five or five and a half marriages in this country. Certainly the divorce rate is not that high among the Latter-day Saints. But the divorce rate, on the other hand, is higher among other groups. Add to this the many thousands of desertions which take place each year throughout the United States, and to this the many hundreds of thousands of couples who are living together even though their relationship is incompatible, being held together only by the expense and stigma of divorce, and you get some idea of the heartaches and sorrows which exists in the very type of group relationship that should produce the greatest happiness possible for man to obtain. So you can see that a great deal yet needs to be done. What is being done? We have certain private and governmental agencies that are interested in the problem. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we are 773 facing the problem, I think, to a degree, but even here there is yet much work ahead of us. The idea of Temple marriage certainly can and does help, because in Temple marriage we dignify and spiritualize and strengthen this bond that is so often treated lightly by the world. But even so, the conditions in our own Latter-day Saint communities are not the best. While the divorce rate is lower than that of the Nation, still a divorce rate exists, and the same can be said of desertion and of incompatibility. Family problems stare us in the face as challenges to be met. I have only touched upon a few angles of family maladjustment, but these few perhaps will suggest the tasks which lie before us in the realm of courtship, marriage and the family. The young people of today need the help and cooperation of their parents, of their teachers, and of their religious leaders. The young people of today need more than vague warnings and emotional condemnations to keep them straight. They need sympathetic understanding and enlightened counseling, and both of these can come from a study of sociology. HE second problem is that of economic insecurity. The world has progressed in a phenomenal way during the last two or three hundred years, economically, mechanically and industrially. The standard of 'living has been doubled and trebled; ?the radio, the talking picture, the telephone, the airplane, the electric light, and thousands of other inventions have given us comforts and luxuries which even kings dared not dream about not so long ago. Yet in spite of all this material advancement the world remains economically ill. Social relationships have not kept up with industrial progress, and 774 the gap between the two has created disturbances which are serious ? challenges to you and to me. In spite of the fact that the standard of living has been greatly raised, thousands of people are suffering for want of the ordinary necessities of life, shivering from cold in the winter, going hungry all the year round, suffering from malnutrition, deprived of medical attention, and so on. Even though the wealth of the world has greatly increased, it has not been put to the most profitable use. Wealth has certainly not been distributed on an equal basis. At the present time in the United States about 1% of the people own over half of the wealth, whereas 90% of the people own only about 10% of the wealth. Poverty is very extensive, reliable estimates placing from 10% to 30% of the population in this class. Unemployment runs into the millions. Estimates vary on the exact amount, but why should anyone in a country like this be deprived of the right to work in support of himself and his loved ones! Someone has said, "It is a mad world, which finds men povertystricken in the midst of plenty, nations starving when there is too much food." Economic security is a crying need in the world today. What are we doing about it? The Federal Government is spending millions of dollars each year in relief work and in social security programs, programs which are reaching our own local - communities. Private agencies everywhere are doing what they can to make their contributions. The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been very helpful along these lines. The Church has recently attracted worldwide attention by announcing and putting into operation a security program that hopes to give work to all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the able-bodied within the Church, and direct relief to those who are incapacitated, but the goal most certainly has not been reached as yet. Much work is before us, and this is a challenge to the Relief Society and to the Church. Why study Sociology?that this one more threat to social happiness might be eliminated. THE third problem that I would bring to your attention is that of physical mental ill health. As in the field of economics, so also in the field of health, phenomenal advancements have been made during recent years; advancements in diet, sanitation, medical care, and surgery. But in spite of all this, the world today is literally sick. Do you realize that on the average every person in the United States loses from about five to ten days work each year on account of illness, and do you realize that approximately 2% of the entire population is bed-ridden at any one time? This is in addition to the many hundreds of thousands of persons who are chronically ill, though not bed-ridden, and whose efhiicency is thereby seriously reduced. It is true that the average length of life has been increased from somewhere between thirty or forty years to about fifty-seven years for men and sixty years for women. But this increase has come about largely through the great inroads made upon the death rate of mothers at child birth, the death rate of infants under one year of age, and the general death rates from infectious and contagious diseases. Decreases in the death rate have largely been in the younger age groups of the population. Figures show that the death-rate of those past the age of forty-five has actually been on the increase. Figures also show that in spite of the great advancement made on contagious diseases, which affect WHY STUDY SOCIOLOGY? Persons of young ages chiefly, the death rate from ailments such as cancer, heart disease, etc., which affect the middle aged and the old, has actually been on the increase, indicating that gains made in one way may be lost in another. This fact, along with the increase in accident rate, especially from automobile traffic, indicates that the time may not be far distant when the average length of life, instead of increasing further, will actually decrease. I am not decrying the progress which has been made, only emphasizing that there is much yet to be done. In the field of inental health we likewise have our problems. Approximately 1 per cent of the population of this nation must be regarded as feeble-minded, and from 5 per cent to 10 per cent of the population become mentally ill, to use the popular term "insane," sometime during life according to statistical estimates, and furthermore insanity is on the increase. It seems that the rapid tempo of modern life, together with its growing complexity, contribute to the increase of insanity. These figures and facts also present a challenge to the Church and to the Relief Society. What is being done in the Church? The Latter-day Saint Church has always been noted for its healthful way of living. The Word of Wisdom, like the Social Security Plan, has attracted world-wide attention. It has made Latter-day Saints distinctive, and its results have been good. The death-rate is not so high in the Church, nor is the rate of sickness, but in spite of this there is altogether too much of both. The Relief Society has played its part from the beginning?visiting the sick, providing for the needy, ete. These are no small contributions, but in spite of them all the world is still literally sick. Add all these indices 775 of health together-?disease, physical breakdown, accidents, feeble-mindedness, insanity and so on?and you will wonder who is left healthy and free. The physical and mental wellbeing of society is not in good shape. HE fourth problem to be reviewed briefly is that of crime. Government is organized in society for the protection of life and property. Laws are set up to govern people, to see that individuals, institutions, and groups do not infringe upon the rights of other individuals, institutions and groups. But when governments become weak and corrupt these controls have little or no effect and crime flourishes as a consequence. Now to say that crime in the United States is due to a weak and corrupt government, would certainly be wrong, but to say that the extent of crime in this country is due to weak and corrupt politicians, who have wormed their way into government circles, would not be wrong. Too often in our society, certainly not always but too often, politicians and the criminals are in partnership. As long as there are such conditions, I am convinced that American democracy will exist in name only. For the preservation of freedom and liberty which are essential to democracy, we must stamp out political corruption and crime. There is a bit of irony in the fact that this very nation which has championed the course of democracy now has the reputation of being the most crime-ridden nation in the world. Figures show that one per- _ son out of every hundred in the United States has been convicted of crime, and five persons out of every hundred have been arrested at one time or another. Figures show that we have over 150,000 inmates housed in the Federal and State Penitentiaries of the land. Add to this number the hundreds of thousands in 776 local jails, the hundreds of thousands on probation and parole, and the untold numbers who are never caught, and you have some idea of the extent of crime in this country. Furthermore crime is on the increase. Where is it all going to end? No one can tell. We know what we would like, we know what the conditions are, and the fate of the Nation remains in our hands. I refer, of course, to all citizens of the United States. Latter-day Saints have always been noted for their emphasis upon law observance, and this emphasis has had its results. The crime rates in our local communities are not as high on the average as in most communities. But Iam sure that if you will observe the crime records in our own communities, you will nevertheless be startled; they are not at all flattering. Political corruption needs to be stamped out; indifference to laws and government needs to be corrected; crime detection needs to be improved; and studies on the cause of crime and the treatment of the criminal need to be expanded. All of these are tasks which lie before the student of contemporary social problems, and this is another reason why members of the Relief Society should study sociology. HE fifth problem I would like to consider in order to illustrate the importance of social study and social work, is the problem of War, a problem which in our present setting may seem a little distant and far away but a problem which nevertheless is just as serious, just as demanding of our attention, perhaps more so, than any of these other four problems discussed. The problem of War is most serious because it involves life itself, the very heart of civilization. In personal disorganization, suicide and insanity are the end products; in family disorganization RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE divorce ana desertion are the most serious evidences of maladjustment; while in community disorganization war and revolution are the final extremes to which the disorganization may run. We may think that as society moves on, and man lives longer in social groups, he would learn to get along with others better and hence war and the possibility of war would decrease as society becomes older. This is a logical deduction, but such is not the case in fact. Studies reveal that the last quarter of a century or so has been the most bloody part century of any century recorded in history. This is true from the standpoints of the size of armies, of war expenditures, and of war casualties. We talk of peace, but the peace machinery of the world has been largely broken down. The tast World war, in round numbers, cost humanity about forty million lives either directly or indirectly, and about four hundred billion dollars. These lives have not been redeemed through social advancement, and the borrowed money has never been repaid, perhaps never will be. The end is not yet. Only yesterday we read of the war in Ethiopia, and revolutions in various parts of the world. Today the war in Spain is only overshadowed by the terrible atrocities taking place in China. The feelings of the nations of the world are on edge; no one knows when they may break into flame. To you and me, located here in the heart of the Rocky Mountains, perhaps war is further removed than it is to some others. But many of you in this audience will remember the loss of loved ones in the last Wortd War, and remembering this you will realize that the possibilitiy for the future is not too bright. - The world was not made safe for democracy in the last World war. It is scarcely safe for anything at WHY STUDY SOCIOLOGY? the present time, and it will never be made safe by war. The only way that peace can be established is by mending the torn fibres of social relationships in such a way that love will take the place of hate and cooperation will supplant the ugly conflict of war and revolution. Call this Utopia, perfectionalism, millennium or what you like, but it must come before social life can produce the supreme joy and contentment which lie intrinsically within it. The task is a large one but it is not impossible, and therein lies our hope. THESE five major social problems which have been the "meat" of our discussion this afternoon? family maladjustment, economic insecurity, ill health, crime, and war? are by no means the only problems with which society has to deal. Furthermore, my discussion of them has been altogether too brief and general; but regardless, I am sure that some of the symptoms of a sick humanity have at least been illustrated. Allis not well with the world, neither at home nor abroad, and you and I cannot afford to be indifferent. There is important work to be done. Society will not be reorganized in a day, nor by the Relief Society alone, nor certainly not by this talk, but all helps. NOT many centuries ago our pilgrim fathers were fighting for life and freedom upon the frontiers of a new continent. Fewer than one hundred years have passed away since our own grandparents rallied to the leadership of Brigham Young and braved the dangers of an 777 unconquered expanse of territory to make one of the greatest treks known in history. Pioneers, all of them, struggling to push the frontiers of their day into the distant horizons of the morrow, and they succeeded very well; you and I are now enjoying innumerable conveniences and comforts made possible only by the courage of these who have gone before. But these frontiers of our forefathers, instead of vanishing, have only shifted to new fields. Land for colonization is almost gone, it is true, but the social fields of today are just beginning to be opened up. They are rough and are full of rocks and weeds; they need to be conquered and cultivated. The tasks which lie before you and me, though different in their nature, are just as important and just as challenging as those of our fathers. There are religious groups in the world which make the mistake of attacking these social problems from an emotionalized spiritual point of view only. There are other groups, non-religious in nature, which make an equal mistake in attacking the problems from a cold intellectual point of view alone. We need both approaches. Inspiration should be supported by information; spirituality should always accompany intellectuality. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and the National Woman's Relief Society are both richly endowed with all of the elements necessary in the solution of our great problems. Sisters of the Relief Society, may we accept the challenges which lie on the social frontiers of life, and may we lift the horizons of today to new heights. Three Wise Girls By Lillian McQuarrie WILLIE sang from the bathroom, "I don't want to make ? hist-o-ry," and Esther, in the dining room, tittered. The bathroom door slammed suddenly with such violence the three little girls jumped. "What did he do that for?" Ruth, the youngest, wanted to know, her blond curls bobbing. Mother rushed in from the back porch where she was sweeping snow. It was a week before Christmas and the snow was deep. "What was that?' eyes were startled. "Willie's mad at something!" Janette's thin, dark little face clouded. "We don't know what." A young man appeared in the suddenly opened doorway. Onehalf of his face was covered with lather. Willie was twenty-one, and Mother's youngest brother. "Your innocent children," he announced with fine sarcasm, "are up to their tricks?watching me and snickering." Esther's eyebrows shot up. Esther was the oldest-?almost thirteen. "Mother," she said, "we weren't even looking at Willie. We were clearing the dishes." "I wish you weren't so sensitive lately, Will," Mother said. "I'm sure the girls would leave you alone if you didn't get so upset every time they make a move." Mother went outside again, and Willie closed the bathroom door. "What's the matter with him?" Ruth asked in a loud whisper. Her brown "Sh!" Janette said. "He's in love." She looked up at her older sister for confirmation. "Isn't he, Esther?" The tawny-haired Esther nodded. Little ten-year-old Ruth spread her hands and hunched her shoulders with delight. But she knew better than to make a sound. Willie was always having outbursts lately. She couldn't understand why he had stopped playing with them, or picking them up and roughing them when they ran to meet him after work. But she had a feeling it was connected with Fay Hughes, nineteen, who lived next door. Summer before last Fay had moved in and Willie used to slip over and talk to her on her front porch in the evening. Soon they were going driving in his old car. But now, somehow, Willie wasn't a bit himself. After Willie left for the office, Mother said, "Girls, I want you to be careful of Willie's feelings." There was sympathy in her kind, brown eyes, but a twinkle, too. "Unhappy people are likely to be cross. Or maybe we should say 'people who are cross are unhappy.' " Esther said, "What's Willie unhappy about, Mother? Honestly, we didn't do a thing to him. He was singing that old song about 'I don't want to make history, I just want to make love,' and I laughed. That's all." "That's enough," Mother said, rather crisply. The girls had an uncomfortable feeling, as Mother went upstairs, that they were guilty of something. But they did not know what it was. "I think I know why Willie's unhappy," dark little Janette said, brightening. 'Did you hear him talking to Daddy this morning? He didn't know whether to buy Fay THREE WISE GIRLS a diamond for Christmas, or himself a new car. What does he want to give Fay a diamond for, Esther?" "So they can get engaged," Esther said. "When you want to marry someone you give them a diamond ring and then you're engaged." The blond youngest child listened, wide-eyed, but made no comment. WO days later Willie drove home in a shiny new car. The girls heard him say to Daddy at dinner, "Well, Larry, I guess the diamond's out." "Too bad, old man," Daddy said. "But you're young, and there are dozens of Fays in the world." Willie laughed, but the girls listening knew that it wasn't a happy laugh. When Esther came up to bed she was quiet for a long time. At last she said, "Willie had a quarrel with Fay yesterday." "A quarrel!" straight in bed. "Like we used to have when we were young?" Ruth asked, incredulous. "Yes," Esther said, "and I have a grand idea. Let's put our money together and buy a gift for Fay? from Willie!" "But we won't have any left over for Moth?" Janette began. Esther interrupted. "I saw just the thing downtown yesterday. A real honest-to-goodness Mexican diamond for only four dollars and fifty cents." "My goodness!" Janette "Four dollars and fifty cents!" Ruth's eyes were as big as saucers. "A real Mexican diamond?" Janette said, "And will we have to tell Mother and Daddy we haven't bought anything for them?" "Well," Esther said. 'Willie is closer to Mother than we are because he's her brother. So if we make Janette sat up said. 779 Willie happy Mother will be happy, and if she is, Daddy will be. See? So it's a sort of present for everybody." "Well, I want to see the Mexican diamond first, before we buy it," Janette said, cautiously. But her caution was swept away and she and Ruth fell in love with the diamond instantly when they saw it glittering in its velvet nest in the showcase. Ruth clapped her hands in ecstasy. Esther said, "See? Wouldn't Fay be beautiful in that? With her blue eyes looking at it, and the diamond sparkling on her white hand?" "Oh, it's?grand-elegrant?" Ruth cried. "Maybe she'll let us try it on." But Janette did not want to be rushed into anything. "That's a lot of money for a diamond, after the way we've borrowed ahead on our 'lowances, and we still lack a quarter. Now a box of candy, maybe. Let's just buy Fay a box of candy and get engaged that way." "Sh?" Esther said, nudging Janette. '"You have to have a ring. And anyway, it's for Willie, silly." Y Christmas Eve the three girls had almost despaired. They had borrowed to the limit of their allowances, and had even touched Willie for fifty cents, which he let them have, absently. They succeeded in getting the final quarter from father which he let them have only by sign-? ing a receipt for it. He looked at them thoughtfully. "However," he said, "it's in stamps." They did not hear him chuckling over it with mother, later, nor explaining that he believed in creating little special problems. Esther was disappointed. "I wonder if the man will take stamps." "It's too late to wonder," Janette cried. "Get your coats. Mother 780 promised we could go downtown alone." "And it's nearly dark!' Ruth added, her eyes round. At the jewelry store the man smiled. "Yes, it's still here. Do you want it wrapped as a gift?" "Yes," Esther said. "And could you engrave a name on it?" "What name do you want?" the man asked. "To Fay from Willie,' Esther said, thoughtfully. They waited, looking at each other breathlessly, saying nothing. Soon the man came back. As he wrapped the box he said, "There will be an extra charge of ten cents for the engraving." Esther slumped dramatically. "We haven't got that much," she said. "Only four dollars and fifty cents. And twenty-five cents is in stamps." There was a long pause, as the man put seals on the little box. "Oh," he said, at last, "that'll be all right. Here's a card to write the name on." He handed them the box. 'Merry Christmas to you," he smiled. They sighed with relief when they got outside, and began to run. They ran almost all the way home. But even before they opened the door they heard sounds of trouble. Willie was turning the radio on so loud it was deafening. And then he was turning it off again. It had to be Willie. It couldn't be Mother or Father. The three girls took off their wraps, and Ruth danced up and down. "Here, Daddy," Esther said. "Put this gift on the tip-top of the tree.'' "Who's it for?" Esther took up a pen from the desk and wrote "Fay" on the card. But Father looked at the package and then at Willie. He shook his head. "Too bad," he said. "Wild horses RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE couldn't drag Fay into this house." Ruth said, "Daddy, Willie will bring her. Won't you, Willie?" "Say?-" Willie began with scorn. And then, "Willie! Willie, Willie, Willie is all I hear! Why can't you call me Bill or something? Will-ee!"' He ran up the stairs, turning at the landing, "You kids make me tired!" They heard his door slam behind him. HREE little faces looked blank, and then horrified. Janette dropped into a chair and Esther slumped to the Chesterfield. Ruth just stood, looking at the empty tree Mother and Daddy would trim after they were in bed. Mother said, "What's up? It can't be that bad, surely?" And Daddy laughed. "You little women have been so wrapped up in giving that you haven't given a thought to what you're going to get!" He sounded mysterious, but it didn't help any. Ruth climbed up on his lap and began sobbing, too disappointed to say anything. "Hop into bed," Daddy said, after a while. ?Bedtime comes early on Christmas Eve." But sleep would not come. They could hear faintly the voices of Mother and Daddy, and the crackle of paper. They heard Mother say, after a while, "Here, Larry. Christmas Eve is the time to open packages. Merry Christmas, dear." Esther leaped out of bed. "I know what we'll do. We'll take that present over to Fay right now!" She ran to the head of the stairs. "Mother!" she called. "Mother, please, would you mind handing me that present? The one for Fay?" Mother did not ask questions. She only smiled. But Esther was trembling for fear she would say some- THREE WISE GIRLS thing. When she came back to the bedroom she was smiling. "Get your clothes on. We're going over to Fay's." They dressed, breathlessly, and tiptoed down the back stairs. The gate between the two houses stood ajar, and they were careful not io touch it because of the squeak in it. Mr. Hughes answered the docr. "Well, well, well!" he cried. "Three wise men come to visit us on Christmas Eve! No, three wise women, as I live!" "Sh!" Esther said, her finger on her lips. She glanced back toward the darkened kitchen of her own home. "Oh, Mr. Hughes," Janette said, "is Fay home?" "I should think she is," the man boomed. "Crying her heart out on Christmas Eve!" They followed him into the sitting room. Fay was lying on her face, one arm under her, but sne sat up when they came in. The Christmas tree stood by the radiator, heavily laden, and strung with icicles. "You have company, Fay," Mr. Hughes said. Mrs. Hughes was wrapping packages at the table. Fay leaped to her feet. Her eyes, the girls thought, were more blue and beautiful than ever, even though she had been crying, and they had never seen her golden hair so lovely. It was out of order and not primly tucked behind her ears in smooth waves tonight. "Mother says," Esther began, "that Christmas Eve is the time to open presents. So we've brought one over to you." Fay's eyes filled with tears again. "Who's?who's it from?" Her voice was hushed, and she looked scared. "Look and see!" Ruth cried. Fay's slender fingers trembled as 781 she opened it, and when she saw the ring box she sat down. At the sight of the glittering gem she cried, "Oh! Oh!" She slipped the ring on her finger. "Look inside of it!" Ruth said. Fay inspected the ring, reading slowly. ''It's?it's from??Willie!" Mrs. Hughes said, "Have some candy, youngsters. Is Willie home?" "Oh, Mother!" Fay protested. "No, thank you, Mrs. Hughes," Esther said. "Yes, Willie's home!" Tears were in her voice. She clutched her sister's hands. '"Well, she said, "we've got to be going." They were out the front door and half-way up the front walk of their own home before Janette caught her breath. 'What did you drag us away for, Esther? I wanted to see what she'd do." "We had to get out of there before we told her we bought it!" Esther said. "Oh, I'm all mixed up myself!" Ruth began to cry. "This is the worst Christmas?' But. Esther opened the door. Willie was sitting with Mother and Father, in his new robe. They were all eating popcorn. "Well!" Mother exclaimed. "We've been over to Fay's,'"' Janette burst out. "We took her the ring ourselves!" "What ring?" Willie sprang up, excited. "What ring? Tell me, quick!" "An engagement ring," Ruth said. "A real Mexican diamond!" Willie collapsed into a chair. "Now wouldn't you just know it!" He ran his fingers through his hair and glared at the children. He was breathing hard. "She'll think I sent them! She'll think I bought an old, cheap ring!" "It's not?ch?cheap!" Janette cried, biting her lip. But the tears came, anyway. The phone rang. "If that's for 782 me," Willie shouted to Mother as she moved toward the phone, "I'm not in. Oh, I'll have to drown myself!' But he beat Mother to the phone and lifted the receiver. They all watched his face, and after the first "Hello" it changed unbelievably. His voice softened, and he smiled. "Yes," he said, at last, "I'll be right over." He whirled and ran up the stairs, and Esther turned to Mother. "We had both of their names put in the ring so?so they would be engaged!" Mother and Daddy laughed. Willie came down the stairs three RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at a time. He had almost reached the hall when he stopped. "Hey!" he called, and there was such gladness in his voice the girls ran to him. "'Listen,'' he said, bending down and whispering, "Don't tell your mother and dad, but here's a little present for the swellest nieces a guy ever had!'' And when he closed the door behind him there were three one dollar bills clutched in three little hands. "Oh!" Ruth crowed, grand-elegant!" "And he looked happy!" Janette said, giggling. "Like he ought to?he's engaged," Esther said.