Music Department
FRANZ SCHUBERT By Ida Peterson Beal
BIOGRAPHIES of great people are interesting, fascinating and supply entertaining reading for our leisure time. In the realm of music we have such men as Bach, Handel, Hayden, Mozart, and Beethoven. Their works are of the highest rank. "Their ability was of that 'all-round' completeness which enabled them to be pre-eminent in every form of musical art." Their characters and personal dispositions made it quite possible for them to develop their abilities. With Schubert it is different. In him we have "genius showing itself of surpassing power in certain departments of music, and in other departments more or less deficient." "Great and splendid as Schubert's musical achievement was, there is no doubt it would have been far greater and more splendid had he had the good fortune to have possessed a more sturdy and determined character, a greater capacity for taking pains, greater tact, discretion and resolution in dealing with those difficulties which more or less are the common lot of all men. While, therefore, Schubert is one of the most brilliant stars in the whole firmament of musical achievement, he is nevertheless not a star of the first magnitude."
FRANZ SCHUBERT was born in a suburb of Vienna, January 31, 1797. His father was a schoolmaster. He had a large family, and Franz was the fourth of the five surviving children of a family of fourteen. The father married a second time and there were five other children. The father was poor, as his obligations were many. He was a musician and several of the children, including Franz, were also musical. Biographers say that Franz's musical ability was extraordinary, quite as exceptional as that of Mozart or Mendelssohn. He possessed a very fine voice, and at eleven years of age he was made a chorister in the choir of the Emperor. This gave him the privilege of being admitted to a school called the "Stadtconvict." At this school his education went forward and was almost the only advantage, social or educational, that Schubert ever had. Most of his time he devoted to music and here he did only those things he could do without effort. His progress in music was enough to astonish everyone. "He has learned everything?God has been his teacher" was the opinion of his teachers of the "Stadtconvict." He received most of his instruction from Salieri, the conductor of the imperial chapel. The boy's greatest interest lay in musical composition. Schubert remained at the "Stadtconvict" five years, and it is surprising to know how much he accomplished in this short period. There were songs, choruses, a cantata, a symphony, several overtures, several quartets, and many instrumental pieces to his credit. "His songs poured from him with all the unconsciousness of effort that a nightingale or lark or linnet may be supposed to feel."
WHEN Schubert was twenty years old he bade adieu to his father's home and went to live with his friend, Schober. Schubert was not very prepossessing in appearance. He was short, and stooped a little, and had short curly hair and a puffy face, bushy eyebrows
804
and a stumpy nose. He was pale but not delicate. His daily work was begun in the forenoon and continued without intermission till dinner time. The rest of the day was spent with his friends, going on excursions, or visiting the inn. When he was taken to the homes of the great, he was reserved and shy. To applause he was very indifferent. He lived until he was thirty-one years of age, yet in this short period his works were manifold. Six hundred songs that now exist, besides many that were lost, symphonies, quartets, sonatas, and other forms of instrumental music are but a few of his accomplishments.
IN HIS lyric composition this spontaneity of effort seems to have been exercised without controlling judgment or attempt at choice and selection of any sort. Anything lyrical that came to hand, even if it were lyrical only in form, was quite sufficient to set his marvelous gift of song in flow." Goethe, Schiller and Mayrhofer provided him with the lyrics of many of his songs. Shakespeare and the Bible gave him themes for his beautiful songs. Goethe's The Erl King "deserves special mention, for it is exceedingly characteristic." "In an hour the melody had been conceived and put into musical form. Its inimitable accompaniment had been arranged and completed." "Such was the birth of the song that is perhaps Schubert's masterpiece.' Again one must not fail to mention the Serenade, "the most delicate dream of passion and tenderness that the heart of man ever conceived." "Hark, Hark, the Lark' and "Who Is Sylvia?" two songs whose words are Shakespeare's, are considered perfect types of songs. It is said they were written on the back of a tavern bill of fare only a few mo-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ments after "the composer had seen the words for the first time." No doubt it was the beauty of the words of the 23rd Psalm that were Schubert's inspiration in giving to the world this beautiful sacred song, "The Lord Is My Shepherd, I Shall Not Want." A friend chided Schubert because he failed to take pains with his compositions. He answered, "I can see no use in such drudgery." He was averse to "painstaking labour of any sort."
WE marvel at his ability to produce so many beautiful compositions. His songs are essentially "songs of sentiment?of sadness, of longing, of regret, of clinging fondness." His songs that should have brought him a princely revenue, brought him almost nothing. He seemed to lack the ability to make himself known. His friends were no better off than he. For a time he was music master in the family of Count Johann Esterhazy. Here he might have remained for a lifetime, but he fell in love with the Count's youngest daughter, Caroline, a child of eleven years of age. This situation made his position in this household very uncomfortable, so he resigned. It was his only love and was hopeless and unrequited. It seems that Schubert had no skill in managing his own affairs. He had no business instinct. "He bargained away the rights of his music for mere trifles." His friends were greatly disturbed. They sought positions at court for him, and elsewhere, but were unsuccessful. His own lack of ambition was against him, so he held no other post than with Count Esterhazy that brought him any remuneration. "Poverty, therefore, was Schubert's portion all through life. There MUSIC DEPARTMENT is no doubt, too, but that poverty? absolute poverty?hastened, if it did not entirely bring about, his untimely end. When he died, November 19, 1828, it was found that his total possessions, including his clothes and his books, were of the value of sixtythree florins, or about ten dollars." SCHUBERT had always been a great admirer of Beethoven?he worshiped him at a distance. They met but once and as far as Schubert was concerned, it proved a disappointment. Schubert's one great desire was to be buried by the side of the great Beethoven. In 1828 death came to this gifted man in his thirtyfirst year. These two great musicians 805 lie side by side as Schubert had desired. "Though Schubert never knew the happiness of love, he has sung of it with the purest ideal feeling. Though his life was clouded with sadness, he has given to the world immortal pictures in tones of the tenderest, loveliest, and truest aspirations of the heart. Though he died wretchedly poor in this world's goods, he bequeathed to the world a rich legacy?the outpouring of a beautiful soul's musical wealth. The wastes of sorrow which stretch across his life were made beautiful with exquisite flowers of song, whose perfume will never be lost, and whose beauty will never fade."