Charity By Margaret E. Shrewsbury RUE Charity does not "donate". It does not "give". It knows no patronage nor sense of superiority. True Charity loves actively. It shares. It feels the troubles, the cold, hunger, pain, despair of those it seeks to bless. Poverty or constant trouble beats one almost senseless. It dulls the brain, slows the body, but it cannot always conquer sensitivity. It cannot always deaden self-respect, real manhood and womanhood.: We offer our cast-off garments, clean, no doubt, but out of style, perhaps torn or mended and patched, and we feel we have shown "charity". Should our cast-offs be repulsed, we'd be shocked and irritated. We'd say, "Well, if they're so poor, they should be glad to have anything given to them!" How little we understand. It isn't the hole in the garment, or the patched and mended place, it isn't the warmed-over food that is frowned upon, no... Not these... It is the patronage with which the gift was offered that caused the implusive rebuff! Ah! How the poor hate Charity. Yet are we commanded to have Charity. Listen to the words of Paul to the Corinthians. Study them and compare his Charity with Charity as the world today knows it. "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of Angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. "And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. "And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. "Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself; is not puffed up. "Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil;; "Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth. "Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things; "Charity never faileth...." WE HAVE many plans for curing present-day inequality. "Share the Wealth", "Old Age Pension", "Communism", '"'Radicalism", many "Isms", but the one great plan of "Charity", of "Love of God" and "Love of Man"... Of Sharing, of Understanding, is not advocated. "Love the Lord thy God with all thy might, mind and heart, and love thy neighbor as thyself." In that simple sentence, the best and greatest Man who ever lived, gave us the solution for all our ills. "But I love God and my neighbor! I obey the ten commandments. I give food to the beggars who come to the door". You say, and I say. Of course! But think beneath it all. What more is meant? Some live the letter, some live the spirit, but alas, few of us live it whole-heartedly and without reservation. "It is one thing to give to those we know and love. To give to strangers what we do not want or need, of food or of clothing, but the most precious gift of all, understanding, few of us can spare the time to give! And Understanding behind our material gifts is Charity at its best! To love the Lord, our God, with alt our might, mind and heart, we must foreswear all evil, all appearance of evil, every word, thought and action that is unclean, unfine, 834 that will hurt or detract from beauty and truth. O LOVE our fellow-man, we must dig down to bed-rock. We must understand him, his needs, dreams, hopes, fears, weakness. Cease to find fault with superficial things, hunt beneath the surface for the cause of his actions, words or looks that irritate us. Cease to hunt for snubs, and forget those obvious ones we do not imagine. In fact, we must display the qualities of Charity as Paul defined it. "Almost impossible for human nature as human nature is today," you say. Yet, Christ lived it. He advocated it, and until we do live it ourselves, there can be no unity. WERE I as rich as Croesus, I would have a difficult time sharing with my poorer relatives and friends. Why? Because they would not understand my true motives. They would drift away. A few would accept my bounty, demanding a share, but they'd say, "Oh, she can afford it", not realizing they had anything that I might need. They might or might not envy me, but they'd no longer share with me their thoughts and companionship. They would feel constrained in my presence, because of my finer apparel, and the fact that they could not return my gifts with ones as good. I know this, because it is my own reaction toward those of my friends who are better off than I. But were they to have Charity, to understand me, they would sense the loneliness, the longing for sweet, fine companionship, my desire to be loved for myself. They would know that I wanted only to share my wealth with them, not condescendingly, but humbly because I could RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gain no pleasure from it except through sharing it with them,... Understanding all this, they would return gift for gift, in the simple, loving thoughts and little kindnesses no one is ever too poor to offer. And were I, on my part, to understand their attitude, I would strife harder to make them understand me. To show my love and humility. We would both then realize that my wealth was not mine alone, but their's and God's, and had been given into my custody to dispense with to the best of my ability. But few of us understand all this, and we are miserable in our poverty or our wealth. We cannot or will not, share what we do have, wholeheartedly. IT IS a human need to share. To enjoy a beautiful sunset, we must show it to someone else, hear their exclamations. To enjoy music, we must have one to listen while we make it, or to make it for us. Love begets love, kindness meets kindness. "Give love and love to your life will flow A strength in your uttermost need, Have faith, and a score of hearts will show Their faith in your word and deed. "Give truth and your gift will be paid in kind And honor will honor meet And a smile that is sweet will surely find A smile that is just as sweet. "For life is the mirror of King and slave 'Tis just what we are and do! Then give to the world the best you have And the best will come back to you." ?Madeline S. Bridges. SHARE not your possessions alone, but share your mind, your heart, your time with God and man. Share humility and faith, begrudging nothing. Then will come peace and unity. Love will sway us, and God will reign supreme. Spond this Winton Profitably A small investment of time NOW will yield rich returns throughout your life. Our short, intensive courses will qualify you to meet the demands of modern business employers. Gregg Shorthand Stenotypy Typewriting Machine Calculation Bookkeeping Walton Accounting Business English Personality Development Penmanship Business Law Etc. Your welfare is given first consideration here?and our excellent plant, modern equipment, and thoroughly competent faculty assure you every opportunity to make this winter count! The demand for young men is particularly strong now. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Please send me full information about the L. D. S. Business College. Names Address: 2... You send at CHRISTMAS TIME is a strand in the bonds that unite you to your friends and loved ones. Do not fail to make your selection from our ample stock?NOW. Call or write THE