12
Editorials
Peace
GLORY to God in the highest and on earth peace, good will toward men." Thus was the birth of the Savior heralded to the world by the angels nearly two thousand years ago.
Peace, a state of quiet, calm, order and security, a state of harmony between persons and nations. Millions of sincere people the world over are striving for the consummation of this ideal. But all too many seek for a peace which leaves them with material advantage, with their own selfish interests protected. They seek for peace disregarding the precepts of the "Prince of Peace." As with individuals so with nations. The greed and selfishness of powerful nations stand a blockade to that ideal state. "The Golden Rule serves as a guiding principle in the associations of men and nations only in a limited way. At a round-table discussion held in London in 1931 the great leader of India sought to introduce such an idea when he said, 'I have dreamed of a co-partnership existing between our two great empires, (India and England) by which they shall be held together, not by the force of arms but by the silken cord of love.' Governments, unfortunately, do not work along these lines. They meet to plan peace with armed forces behind them. Peace based upon the theory that "might makes right" can at best be but an armistice.
ONLY to the extent that men come to Christ's way may peace be attained. For a nation to be at peace its people must be at peace one with another. To have peace one with another each person must be at peace with himself. One enjoys peace with self only through the constant searching for truth and devotion to the teachings of the Master whose birthday we again commemorate. Men of God have attained peace in the midst of a world torn with greed, strife and turmoil. The Rev.
802
Dr. Prentis gave, unsolicited, a short time before President Lorenzo Snow's death, the following, "I saw him in a business office, where great affairs, were transacted, where grave responsibilities are born, and where serious troubles come. * * * I was startled to see the holiest face but one I had ever been privileged to look upon. His face was a power of peace, his presence a benediction of peace." Peace, one of God's greatest bless-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ings, comes from within. It is within the grasp of every Latter-day Saint but it demands as its price eternal vigilance and constant righteous effort. "Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again I say, Rejoice. "And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus." (Philippians, Chap. 4:4-7.)