LIFE ETERNAL NOW to bid goodby to her sons! Hyrum! From childhood he had been passionately loyal to Joseph. And his loyalty had meant his death. Joseph! Was ever there so sweet a child... Joseph as a lad... In patched and torn trousers, and ragged shirt, his brown hair sticking through the holes in his battered hat. His quiet, serious laughter like glints of sunshine on a still, deep pool. Always he had been a meditative lad, content to sit for hours by the window, his young chin cupped in his hands, his eyes gazing off into space, his mind wondering about great things. There had been about Joseph, even from the first, that spirit which set him apart from his brothers and sisters. That clear April day when he had come to her and told her of his vision in the grove. Strange, holy words to fall from the lips of a boy. Yet there had been no blasphemy, no note of levity in his tone. Impossible to believe what he said, yet, looking into his clear eyes she had known that he spoke the truth, that indeed he had talked with God, and her being had thrilled at the knowledge. And this was the end! These lifeless, quiet forms, the saddened, stunned men in the next room. So much her son had accomplished, her son, Joseph, standing head and shoulders above the crowd, his manner and appearance a kingly one. Without schooling, without learning, he had founded a new religion, a University, planned and built a city, sent missionaries to every part of the globe. He deserved a better end than this. Where, Oh God, was justice! The minutes were fleeing fast. They pressed in upon her, ruthless, smothering. She muffled her sobs against the bedclothes and her tears flowed anew. Pitifully, frantically, 709 her mind searched for some one thing, some one thought that would give her comfort in her hour of need. But she could find nothing. Again and again she returned to her bereavement, and her grief became a two-edged sword turning in her heart. It became a torture too painful to be borne in silence and she cried aloud, "Help me, God! Help me to understand. Give me, Oh I pray Thee, strength in my hour of need." As she prayed, the pain left her body, her mind became as a clear, quiet, stream flowing forward in the stillness. The thought came to her, "I am not the first. I am not the first mother to mourn on bended knee at the side of her son. Elizabeth, mother of John the Baptist. She had her tray. Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ. With agonized heart she watched Him die. She had her cross." Then came the thought like a bright blade of steel flashing in the sun. "God chose them to be the mothers of His chosen ones. And He chose me." Elizabeth and Mary. They had known sorrow deeper than tears. Their sons had died. Martyrs, too. Dead? Christ dead? Every Christmas did not Christianity celebrate the birthday of a living Christ? Would He die as long as love, mercy and faith were in the hearts of men? Had not the ages woven love for Him into the very fiber and being of man, made of each truth He taught a precious jewel sparkling in the sun? Christ would never die! Was Joseph dead? The mortal remains, yes. The body would return to the dust from whence it came. But the spirit, the Word of Truth! Through Christ they were eternal. In that moment Lucy saw into the future, saw Joseph's followers, led by the spirit of God, trekking off across the plains to a place where 770 they could worship in peace. She saw a city built in the tops of the Rocky Mountains, and Joseph's followers growing from thousands to millions, spreading the Faith to every corner of the globe! UCY rose to her feet, her hands clasped before her. Joseph Smith, the Prophet, would never die. Like Jesus Christ, his memory, his Word of Truth, were eternal! Head held high, with queenly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE grace she walked across the room, opened the door, said, "You may take them now." Her voice was calm. Her face radiant. THE End NOTE The incidents recounted in the story "Life Eternal" are neither authentic nor recorded, but fiction, based upon a supposition of what might have happened following the martyrdom.