Notes to the Field
SPECIAL attention is called to the material in lesson enrichment to be found in the Relief Society Magazine. In the November, 1937, issue, Class Leaders in Theology, Teacher Topic and Literature will find great help in the excellent articles published under these departments. The Social Service material appears in the article "Why Study Sociology," in this issue of the Magazine.
Theology Department
A MOST excellent point of contact to use for the lesson on the Resurrection this month would be to exhibit the picture "The Two Disciples Running to the Tomb," by Burnand. Some of you will remember it from the Scriptural Art Exhibit at our recent conference. This picture may be procured from your libraries or from Rudolf Lesch, 225 Fifth Avenue, New York, for a very nominal charge. Peter and John have depicted on their faces almost the gamut of human emotions, and it is brought forcibly to our attention that here was a new event and a strange one in the history of the human race, for Christ was indeed the "First fruits of the resurrection" and "If one dead body has been raised to life, unnumbered millions may also be revived." A lesson, to be a fine lesson, should have a practical application, and it would be very fitting for the class leaders in this lesson to utilize the opportunity for planting in each heart the necessity for faith and in stimulating the women with hope anew and comfort. This will not be a difficult thing to do as most of our lives have been affected more or less by the death of loved ones. We should sincerely urge the women to
live in the light of the Spirit of God, so that every one of them might have burning within the belief in the resurrection; for the Spirit of the Lord can instruct them that they can know for themselves. All of us are born with powers, but not with knowledge, and many of us are not satisfied to abide in the little garden of the surely known, and so we should live rightly and pray for the spiritual gift of faith, which will widen our perspective and give new meaning to life's experiences.
Additional References: "Mormon Doctrine," by Charles W. Penrose, procurable from missionaries, as it is a tract. Doctrine and Covenants 93:33.
Work and Business Department
Since launching our project for the Work and Business Department, we find many women showing great interest in the making of bread as well as its uses. All left-over pieces or crusts should be dried, then put through the food chopper or crushed with the rolling pin, and the crumbs stored in a container. It is then ready to be used in various ways, such as bread puddings, Brown Betty pudding, dressing for fowl or different kinds of meat, a fine addition to meat or salmon loaf, Mixed with a little flour it can be used to dip croquettes of various kinds, fish, steak, etc., before frying. Slices of stale bread may be cut into small squares, buttered, toasted and served with soup, instead of crackers.
Social Service Department
"Neither wealth, nor pride, nor past achievement can save a nation whose peace time patriotism is not registered in a decent and wholesome
796
respect for law and order. The first duty of popular self-government is individual self-control." This Government has always found, and always will find its defense and its strength in the purity and loftiness of character of its private citizens. For the teaching of self-control, and the building of character, we look to the homes. Read "Let There Be Peace," Relief Society Magazine, March, 1935, page 176. Also from "The Greatest Art," Relief Society Magazine, February, 1937, page 83, beginning "Children learn self-control," etc.
IN presenting the Social Service lesson, "The Paying of Our Public Bills," class leaders may be interested in the following information:
STATE OF UTAH TAX COLLECTIONS, 1936
Property Tax............$15,688,722.00* Individual Income Tax........498,918.95 Corporation Franchise Tax....508,035.06 Sales Tax...............2,966,866.29 Gasoline Tax............2,899,010.77 Cigarette Tax...........284,493.48 Oleomargarine Tax........37,634.15
*The property tax figure is the amount assessed in the taxable year 1936. All other items represent the actual amount collected in the fiscal year ending June 30, 1936. The 1930 population of the State was 507,847.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Beer Tax...............104,999.25 Inheritance Tax.........195,362.93 Insurance Tax...........298,090.94 Public Utilities Fees....59,994.14 Motor Vehicle Fees.....1,257,437.54
TOTAL................$24,799,615.50
ATTENTION LITERARY DEPARTMENT
The following are recommended as supplementary books for this department:
1, RED MOTHER by Frank B. Linderman, John Day Co., N. Y. This is the life history of a great medicine woman.
2 MEMORIES OF MY CHILDHOOD by Selma Lagerlof, Doubleday Doran and Co., N. Y. This book will be interesting to those who would like to know something of other people. It is written by one of the leading contemporary Scandinavian authors.
3. MY GARDEN OF MEMORIES by Kate D. Wiggin, Houghton Mifflin Co. This is a delightful story of the early life of Mrs. Wiggin.
4, AUDUBON by Constance Rourke, Harcourt Co. This book will be found particularly interesting to those who like birds.
5. LITTLE KNOWN WOMEN OF THE BIBLE by Eveleen Harrison, The Round Table Press. This book will appeal to many of the organizations.
SOLVE your shopping worries. Get your Christmas presents at Mormon Handicraft Shop, where a large variety of articles will make choosing easy.