Last Minute Christmas Gift Suggestions By Leda T. Jensen
CHRISTMAS is almost here. Have you made or purchased all those gifts you want to give to those you love? Or have your good intentions to make or buy early this year gone awry as in the past, and are you trying to decide what to give and how to find time to make or purchase these gifts along with the other manifold duties that crowd themselves into every day of this busy season of the year? To forestall those Christmas gift jitters that recur every December a few suggestions might help to solve that oft-perplexing question of what to give. We want our gifts to be just as lovely and appropriate as we are capable of choosing. A gift will be greatly treasured if it conveys a feeling of having been carefully chosen for just the individual to whom it is given. When one wishes something especially nice in this machine age of mass production, one considers those things made by hand. If a handmade article is beautifully done, there is a sentimental as well as an intrinsic value over the machine made article. "Let's make our gifts" is an appealing invitation to the woman who has been taught the value of developing her hands to be skillful and useful. "Let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands," are the words of the Lord recorded in the Doc. And Cov. 42:40.
EVERY girl should be taught to use a sewing needle, knitting needles, and a crochet hook for numberless are the beautiful things decorative and useful that can be made for herself or for others throughout her life. There is no more interesting place to begin than in the making of Christmas gifts. While one listens to the radio or chats with friends hands need not be idle, and surprising is the number of lovely articles that may result from the use of a moment's time here or there which might otherwise be wasted. Loving thoughts go into those gifts we make, and to know we have given of our time and talents make them doubly welcome to the receiver, especially if she understands the problems involved.
APRONS are always appropriate for the friend who frequently entertains, for mother who needs must slip into the kitchen often on Sundays or holidays, or for sister who is attracted to colorful, gay, new designs. Aprons of organdie, swiss or other sheer, crisp fabrics trimmed with ric-rac or tape in varying color combinations are always dainty and harmonious; gay peasant aprons of unusual style and combinations of plain colors with stripes, plaids, checks or floral designs; or more commodious, but attractive aprons for the kitchen made of good material, which will last, are all timely apron suggestions.
IS your friend contemplating marriage in the near future? Add a pair of hand-embroidered pillow slips, a boudoir pillow, a braided mat or rug for the bathroom or bedroom, a hand pounded Utah copper or silver vase or tray, or a colorful pieced quilt to her growing trousseau.
794
COULD the baby of the family use a knitted or crocheted hood or bonnet, a fleecy soft white or pink hand-made shawl, a new dress with tiny embroidered rose buds and delicate crocheted edgings, or a warm, soft jacket?
THAT little niece, three to five years old, loves to look at herself in the mirror when she wears a new, gay colored print dress. When it is well made by hand, of fine quality materials, it will retain its gay colors to delight her for a long time after the holiday season is over. All feminine hearts respond to the accent that a well chosen flower lends to a costume. Delicate colors and fabrics combine for the evening gown, deeper shades in satin, velvet or chenille for the afternoon frock, or durable crocheted flowers for the coat or suit ensemble.
A LUNCHEON set, a handkerchief or guest towel embroidered or otherwise decorated with sego lilies or seagulls might bring back fond memories to an out-of-the-state friend who visited with you in Utah last summer, especially if you acquainted her with the early history of your state.
A HAND-PAINTED china vase to hold the floral centerpiece, hand-painted bon-bon dishes, cream pitcher and sugar sets, or nut cups, would add that unusual touch to the luncheon table of the aunt who so graciously entertained for you during that merry round of prenuptial parties.
MAYBE the lovely handmade doilies, dresser scarfs, living room table covers, pillows, etc, are
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
wearing out after sister has used them for five or six years since her marriage. Why not replace them with some new ones?
IS there a corner in brother's room that would look brighter and have more meaning if a small water color sketch of Utah Lake, Mount Timpanogos, or an etching of the Seagull Monument were hung there?
FATHER or the boy friend would appreciate a handmade tie and pocket handkerchief that match to add to those articles of personal adornment of which one never has too many.
KNITTING and fancy-work bags are always acceptable to the person who carries her hand work with her wherever she goes, so she may add a few stitches when time and circumstances will permit.
LOVELY handmade quilts and bedspreads do something to a bedroom that those fashioned by machine can never do. Luxurious, downy quilts of shimmering fabrics with embroidered or appliqued seagulls and sego lilies for decoration would be priceless for a mother or a daughter who lives out of the state, but whose heart is in Utah deeply rooted in the pioneer traditions of her native state.
ON the upper floor of the Bureau of Information on the Temple block you may find all the suggestions listed above. These beautiful gifts have been made by the women of Mormondom. Simple yet appropriate gifts exquisitely made by hand and attractively wrapped bring joy to the recipient and express the true spirit of Christmas giving.