[Vol7 | February 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Current Topics | Title: On the Watch Tower]

Oh TheWatchJower© James H. Anderson. Eastern Europe is yet without peace, and the rest of the world cannot boast of an excess of the -desirable article, industrial oi otherwise. • Capt. Ross Smith, an Australian aviator, reached Australia on December 10, on an 11,500-mile airplane trip on which he left England November 12. Food statisticians in Great Britain, analyzing world conditions, announce that a great scarcity of food is due for 1920 and 1921. They have good basis for \heir conclusions. Indians in the United States have increased more than 50,000 in numbers during the past four years. Is the significance ofthis trend on the part of the "remnant of Jacob" apparent to our Society? Over 68,000 girls ran away from home in the United States during 1919. Is the fault with the home, or with the school, or society outside of home life? Emma Goldmann, a Russian by birth but naturalized in America, who has been preaching anarchism in this country for more than thirty years, was deported to Russia on December 21. Emmeline Pankhurst, noted English suffragette, was in Salt Lake City on December 6, and recorded a protest against industrial strikes. She says women have as many rights as men, and inquires what would happen if housewives went on strike for an eight-hour day. Many others than women are in sympathy with Mrs. Pankhurst's views on that question. The "right to strike" in this country has grown into an alleged right to prevent other people from working, as exemplified by labor strikes in Utah and elsewhere during the closing months' of 1919. Fashion journals in the United States announce that society women are having butterflies or mice painted on their arms, backs, breasts, knees and thighs. Comment is offensive. Earthquakes occurred during the month of December in Alaska, Hawaii, Mexico and California. During the same period the weather was exceptionally severe all along the Pacific coast of North America. United States courts made an order on November 8 for the great coal strike to cease, but the order was not obeyed. The strike ended on December 15, after President Wilson assented to naming a commission to fix wages. Georges Carpentier, the champion French pugilist, who is a single man, was being urged, in December, by certain eugenists, to get married, for obvious reasons. Some people forget that brute power is not the prime requisite for parenthood. Jews still are being killed off in large numbers in Russia. With these massacres going on, Palestine soon may be large enough to accommodate all of the house of Judah that remain in Europe. Ireland is yet seething with rebellion. On December 18, an effort was made to assassinate the lord lieutenant. Lord French, who commanded the British armies in France and Belgium during the early years of the war. Cardinal Amette, Catholic archbishop of Paris, forbids women who are immodestly dressed entering the churches under his control. Possibly he figures that under the "rule of contrary" the women will dress decently to get into the forbidden precincts, and thus improve church attendance. Indians of different tribes and classes were the first settlers of New York State, is the announcement of State Archeologist Arthur Parker of New York, based on the A. H. Dewey archeological collection in the State museum there. His classification of time accords with the Book of Mormon distinctions in their order — Jaredites, Nephites, and the later Lamanites, but he does not use the same names. Italy gets Fiume after all, and even more than she asked at first, notwithstanding the opposition of the American delegates at the Paris peace conference which has caused so much trouble. Paris, France, is described by reputable authorities as being "the loveliest, wickedest, crudest place in the world for young girls visiting there." And this is "bleeding France," for which country much sympathy has been expended. Gen. Felipe Angeles, a fullblood Indian of learning and ability, was executed in Mexico on November 26, for opposing the Carranza government. A few days later, Francisco Villa executed nearly 600 Carranza soldiers as an act of vengeance. Miss Anne Scott, aged 35, of New York, has been elected president of the Bantam Ball Bearing company, a million dollar corporation. She says that she is now "too busy for matrimony"— and too rich for other than a money-lover. Miss Florence King, president of the American National Women's Association of Commerce, and a lawyer, says that in the present age "women must lead men." Mrs. Stuyvesant Fish, New York society matron, cynically inquires, "Where to?" ' Decency in dancing is being urged up
on the young people by the Church social advisory board. Where is the responsibility for deficiency in training that requires this admittedly needed advice? Can the fathers and mothers say? Victor Berger, socialist, convicted of syndicalism, and expelled from Congress therefor, was re-elected to Congress from Wisconsin on December 19. Such straws of public sentiment indicate coming trouble in the United States Central West. "The end of the world" named in Scripture often is interpreted as meaning the destruction of the earth — hence many fake predictions;  may not the true application of the term be the destruction of the wicked as a necessary prelude to a reign of righteousness? A German savant who is familiar with conditions in Europe figures that within a few years Russia, under Bolshevist doctrines, will be the most powerful force in Europe and will even menace America. His forecast is not without good foundation, in the present trend of society. MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS