[Vol7 | February 1920 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS 57 earth in a mysterious or mythical way, and in the same way he will in due time return. Near the close of the poem we have one who, in dream, supposes that Arthur has come back, and he hears the people shout "Arthur has come again, * * * with all good things, and war shall be no more." In an earlier passage in the poem we find these lines, "The old order changeth, yielding place to new, and God fulfills himself in many ways. Lest one good custom should corrupt the world." The first Locksley Hall goes further than to look to a time when war shall be no more, it looks forward to a time when the disputes of nations shall be settled in a World Parliament. Few lines of Tennyson are as the lines beginning: "For I dipt into the future, far as human eye could see, Saw the Vision of the World, and all the wonder that would be: Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic sails. Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly bales;  Heard the heavens fill with shouting, and there rain'd a ghastly dew From the nations' airy navies grapping in the central blue;  For along the world-wide whisper of the South-wind rushing warm, With the standards of the people plunging through the thunder-storm. Till the war-drum throbb'd no longer, and the battle-flags In the were furl'd of man, the Federation of the world. Parliaments There the common sense of most shall hold a fretful realm in awe. And the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in universal law." When the war broke out and the aeroplane was employed for war purposes, the memory of the British people naturally reverted to 1911 when an article appeared in a British magazine, from the pen of the well known English novelist, H. G. Wells, stating that in the event of another war the aeroplane would undoubtedly play a very important part. As early as 1842, the poet Tennyson had such a conception which he has embodied in immortal verse. In perhaps the most exquisite New Year's poem that ever English author breathed, we have these lines looking forward to the time when war shall be no more. And we, who know that the gospel of Christ will bring peace to the nations are uplifted by the poetic vision therein contained. 
 In as much as this lesson will come as the New Year lesson, and in as much as section 106 of "In Memoriam" is so prophetic of much that is occurring at this very hour, we shall include the entire section: "Ring out wild bells, to the wild sky, The flying cloud, the frosty light: The year is dying in the night;  Ring out wild bells and let him die. Ring out the old, ring in the new. Ring, happy bells, across the snow: The year is going, let him go;  Ring out the false, ring in the true. Ring out the grief that saps the mind For those that here we see no more;  Ring out the feud of rich and poor. Ring in redress to all mankind. Ring out the slowly dying cause. And ancient forms of party strife;  Ring in the nobler modes of life With sweeter manners, purer laws. Ring out the want, the care, the sin, The faithless coldness of the times;  Ring out, ring out, my mournful rhymes. But ring the fuller minstrel in. Ring out false pride in place and blood. The civic slander and the spite;  Ring in the love of truth and right. Ring in the common love of good. Ring out old shapes of foul disease;  Ring out the narrowing lust of gold;  Ring out the thousand wars of old. Ring in the thousand years of peace. Ring in the valiant man and free. The larger heart, the kindlier hand;  Ring out the darkness of the land. Ring in the Christ that is to be." QUESTIONS. All students should read "Morte d'Arthur." 1. Have some one in the class tell the story of the "Morte d'Arthur." 2. What does it mean when we translate it from the French? 3. What do we mean by a legendary king? 4. Have someone read the passage on prayer, found in "Morte d'Arthur," to the class. 
 5. Do you believe that more things are wrought by prayer than the world dreams of, if so, why? 6. Give an example from recent events in the world's history, "that the old order changeth giving place to new." 7. Find three stanzas in the first "Locksley Hall," indicating that the aeroplane would some day play its part in air battle. 8. How many years earlier than the H. G. Wells mag zine article on aeroplanes in war did the first Locksley Hall appear? 9. Have a few stanzas read from "Locksley Hall," and a few from "In Memoriam," to the class. Note the difference in the rhythm. The music. 10. Do you think it requires literary talent to write poems with such wonderful musical effect? 11. Find a stanza in "In Memoriam" that you think touches the labor problem. LESSON IV. Social Service Fourth Week in February. HEALTH. (Malnutrition.) Meaning of the Term. The term, malnutrition, means simply bad, or wrong nutrition;  and is usually applied to a condition of health, resulting from a diet consisting either of wrong kinds of foods, or of insufficient quantities of right kinds of foods. It exists, of course, in various degrees, and is often detectable only by nutritional experts. How the Condition is Detected. In very young children, or infants, one of the first signs of malnutrition is fretfulness, earning for the child the epithet, "cross baby." Physicians agree that babies have naturally good dispositions, and the fretful baby is not a well baby. In a surprisingly large number of cases the trouble is merely lack of nourishing food in a quantity sufficient to keep the child feeling comfortable. Another early symptom is a "standing still," or an arrested development in weight, followed by actual loss in weight. The skin becomes pale or "pasty" looking, the eyes lusterless, the hair dry and harsh to the touch. The child has low vitality, and falls an easy prey to diseases, especially those diseases common among children: measles, whooping cough, etc. If the condition is 
 not corrected it results in a "stunted" body and slow brain development often in deformity and actual disease. In old children the symptoms are similar to those already outlined. Underweight for any particular age is the surest indicator and is considered by many physicians to be sufficient indication of malnutrition. Paleness, or an otherwise bad complexion;  flabby, under-developed muscles;  physical and mental sluggishness;  uncertain temper; — all point to a faulty nutrition. How the Condition is Brought About. In the case of the breast-fed child the condition of undernourishment is caused by the mother's milk being either insufficient in quantity, or lacking in one or more of the elements necessary to normal growth. In many instances inquiring mothers have been astonished to find, even with the superficial examination they themselves could make, that their babies' food was wholly inadequate to sustain life long, to say nothing of producing growth. With the artificially fed child the trouble is often caused by giving the baby foods entirely beyond its power to handle. The child's digestive tract develops slowly as does the rest of its body, and it is just as absurd to give it food suitable only for older children and adults as it would be to try to fit their clothing to its little body, and far more dangerous to health. .Often, too, the trouble results from an exclusive diet of some one prepared food. Analysis as well as experience in use of such foods prove them inadequate to the average child's needs. In older children malnutrition is brought about by practically the same causes;  to repeat for the purpose of emphasis, insufficient quantities of the right kinds of foods, such as eggs, cereals, and milk;  or the wrong kinds of food, such as too much sweet, highly seasoned foods, and too much meat. Under the latter head we may include foods, which in themselves are difficult of digestion, such as green corn for small children, uncooked bananas, nuts, unless well masticated;  a diet of foods lacking in necessary food elements, such as an entire diet of starchy foods, or a diet not including vegetables and fruit;  or one consisting of one or two kinds of food only, such as sweets and desserts, and leaving out wholesome foods;  and those which have been made indigestible by poor cooking, particularly greasy foods and over-cooked meat and eggs. Bad eating habits such as irregularity of meals, omitting breakfast, eating between meals, incomplete mastication — in short, anything interfering with normal digestion and assimilation of food will contribute to conditions of bad nourishment. It is quite proper to include here the keeping of late hours, with GUIDE LESSONS 61 resulting loss of sleep and rest;  since it is a well known fact that digestion is seriously affected by low body tone. Forms of Malnutrition. It will be understood, of course, that the term malnutrition, is not of absolutely fixed meaning as various degrees of wrong nourishment are recognized, ranging from small abnormalities to actual disease such as marasmus, rachitis, scorbutus, etc. In making physical examination of school children in New York City there has been adopted a system of grading on the basis of condition of nourishment. By this system children are divided roughly into four grades;  the first including those considered very well nourished;  the second, those considered fair or normal;  the third, those requiring nutritional supervision;  the fourth, those requiring medical attention. The first and second grades require no special attention, but every effort is being made to bring grade three up to normal, and grade four as near to normal as may be possible. In Utah communities the commonest form of malnutrition falls in grade three — the form which may be remedied by careful supervision;  however, anemia, one of the nutritional diseases, is by no means unknown. In the cities of the east, particularly in the foreign quarters such diseases as marasmus, rachitis and scorbutus are very common. Distribution. Naturally, one associates the idea of malnutrition with the child whose parents are unable to procure for it enough wholesome food, but ignorance and indifference are as great enemies to right nutrition as is poverty, and perhaps harder to vanquish, so we find various degrees of malnutrition existing among all classes of children. Any child whose diet is not intelligently supervised is in grave danger of becoming a victim of bad nourishment. A short time ago a professor in one of our large universities found his fourteen-year-old son falling behind in his school work;  listless, indolent, and irritable around home. An expert was called in;  the diagnosis, malnutrition, was a distinct shock to the parents whose table was always set with plenty of wholesome food. Doubtless the mother was one of those foohshly fond parents who says, "I won't make my children eat what they don't like," disregarding the fact that one's likes and dislikes are often the result of wrong training from the beginning or of entire lack of the right kind of supervision, and may have no relation whatever to what the body actually needs. It is variously estimated by reputable physicians that from 10 per cent to 25 per cent of the children of the United States suffer from some form of malnutrition. 
 Cure. Unfortunately not all cases are completely curable;  as, for example, those resulting in bone deformities which are more or less permanent;  but most of those coming in grade three in New York's system of grading can be successfully treated. Naturally the first step is a careful survey of the child's method of living — diet, habits of eating, sleeping, resting, etc., in order to find the underlying causes of the condition. Medical help, and perhaps the assistance of an expert dietician may be necessary for this part of the work, but the intelligent, ambitious mother can do most if not all of the work of regeneration. If she is without knowledge of the right methods in the beginning there is no reason for her long remaining so. To those removed from the larger centers there is available a great store of printed information, not the least important of which is contained in government bulletins, which are referred to in this magazine. QUESTIONS. 1. What does the term "malnutrition" mean to you? 2. By what signs would you recognize a poorly nourished baby? A school boy or girl suffering from malnutrition? 3. Mention some common causes of under-nourishment among babies. 4. Who, in your opinion, is most to blame for malnutrition among children? Justify your opinion. 5. A mother boasts that her wide-awake baby never goes to bed until the family does even if it is midnight. What do you think of the situation? What will be the probable effect on the child? 6. basis on the Discuss New York condition. of nutritional City's system of grading children 7. What forms of malnutrition have you come in contact with? 8. In what types of homes would you expect to find under-nourished children? 9. What proportion of children in the United States are estimated to be suffering from faculty nutrition? 10. How does this estimate agree with your observation in your own community? 11. Discuss the preliminary steps in the treatment of ordinary malnutrition. 12. What agencies in your community can train mothers to cope with problems of nutrition? 13. How can you obtain government publications on food subjects?