The Social Worker in the Unemployment Emergency
By Annie D. Palmer
AMONG the most strenuously employed people in the world today is the Social Worker. If she is in a rural community where shacks and shanties have long ago passed into the sub-standard classification, she may now find several families huddled together in one of the shacks or shanties. She looks on appalled but helpless. She realizes that the air is foul, that sleeping quarters are too close for decency, that warm baths and clean linens are an almost forgotten luxury. She sees the probable break in health, the possible lowering of moral standards, the certain lagging of educational and spiritual interests. Her relief board will supply food, perhaps some used clothing, in some instances shoes. They expect her to distribute these supplies where most needed and to report back that no one in their community has been neglected. Having done this she has finished her task.
Miss Morris is a Social Worker in an urban community. Her experiences are all those of the rural worker and more—many, many more. The office where Miss Morris works is crowded from the time its doors are opened until they are closed for the night. Often after that she visits well-known clients who anxiously wait for an opportunity to discuss a new situation with the worker who knows and understands and helps them. Some of these are so keenly appreciative that they accept with willing fortitude a necessary budget cut or other equally difficult adjustment. Others of them are in such close touch with the public pulse and so selfish in their demands that they clamor for a share in every benefit. Often they know a public project before it is officially projected. Miss Morris must keep her head clear and her heart sympathetic none-the-less. No wonder she goes to bed too tired to sleep, and in her dreams tries to find a solution to the conditions growing daily more intricate.
Every Social Worker must adapt herself to the needs of the hour. While humanity cries for bread she must give emergency orders and even reorders after only a hurried office interview or a volunteer's visit to the home. In the hurry of this winter's office intake, practically all rules have been suspended, and most methods subjected to undesirable modification. Everyone is giving hours of overtime in a determined effort to keep pace with the increasingly heavy load.
They who come to the Relief Agency now are so different! Whereas formerly they were weak or sick or unfortunate, now many of them are strong and determined and defiant. There are young men clean looking, perfectly built, well dressed, demanding that their dependents shall not suffer; and there are sturdy men of middle age who weep because of rents unpaid and credit houses threatening. Youth is fraught with hope. To young men Miss Morris can give a food order and the friendly assurance that of course folks will be fed, that the sun of prosperity will surely shine again, and that the ugly threats never could be carried into effect. And one of the young men answers affably as he goes away: "I'm going to bring my wife up here. I want you to talk to her."
What of the older man whose lost job will probably never be replaced? To draw from the bank his small savings may mean certain dependency in old age. A pension, perhaps, that is a mere pittance, or a public institution. This man's present need may also be met in a small way; but what of his future? Miss Morris contemplates it with aching heart as she contemplates so many of the exigencies of the time.
The problems of both these men are deserving of the best skill of our profession. So, too, are the problems of the woman whose husband literally threw her out into the street and of the widower whose family management is menacing. Miss Morris hopes some time to get back to these worthy cases. What will have happened ere she does?
A prominent speaker in National Conference defended the position thus: "We are proud of the teamwork among relief-giving agencies which makes bread-lines and soup-kitchens almost unknown and wins for us the respect and confidence of the community and even of hard-headed city officials. But we are not blind to the cost of it all. We know that many tragedies have been passed over lightly because they were of the spirit rather than of health or of hunger, that both we as a family society, and the community will suffer from this neglect for years to come. We know that many cases have been 'closed for loss of contact' which should have been followed up, and these have often been the most hopeful ones, just because they did not dog our footsteps. We know that many an 'incidental service' should have been taken under care. Dare we choose intensive casework for the few if it means bread-lines and soup-kitchens for the many?"
Miss Morris is studying her community problems as never before. As never before she sees the big heart of the public respond to the appeal for help; and she is confident that the great majority of those now being fed will again bear their own burdens. They will be helped through the present crisis without losing their innate strength or weakening of their high ideals. But in the midst of it all she is brought face to face with graver situations, some of which "we have always with us." As never before she sees how poverty reacts on character and discontent grows out of necessity. Always there have been some children not properly clothed for school nor properly nourished for learning. Miss Morris has observed a few such families into the second and third generation. Often she reasons with herself in this wise: "How can these children amount to anything? The father grumbles, growls and swears. In between he dozes and smokes. He is not cleaned up on Sundays nor holidays. He doesn't read. He isn't interested in their lessons. He isn't—. Oh, how can he be interested? He is unemployed, under-employed, under-paid. His family is large and always hungry. He must constantly choose between a shirt for one of the youngsters and a sack of tobacco. If only he could buy enough shirts to go round! But he can't; so he decides on the tobacco. His teeth ache and he cannot care for them. His eyes are bleary and he is unable to afford glasses. His food is poor and irregular. Home is cold, crowded, and cheerless. His wife doesn't love him. How can she? Look at the shack in which she lives. No rugs, no comfort, no beauty; no magazines, books nor music; no cement outside nor paint inside. Tired, sick, discouraged, her head aches from worry and her heart aches from disappointment. Is love expressed under such conditions? What to such is the meaning of 'Home, sweet home'? Do we wonder that children stray and family ties are broken?"
It is this type of family that disturbs the slumber of Miss Morris. To them this year, 1931, is no worse than the most prosperous years of the past. Perhaps it is better in that the public pulse is quickened. But what this family needs is not more places to go for free necessities. It is more opportunity for legitimate employment, it is better pay for honest toil. With that to offer, Miss Morris might help the woman to keep house better, to dress the children more fit, to prepare more palatable meals. And that would make considerable difference in the situation. If the children could buy an apple instead of begging or sneaking it; if the woman might go to a show and get a thought to take the place of nagging; if the man could feel that he was somebody, that he had a place among folks, then perhaps he and the woman might be able to think in straight lines instead of vicious circles.
The relationship of poverty to sin is well summed up by Annie Marion McClean. She says: "Poverty is not synonymous with sin and crime; but vice and crime breed where human hopes are at their lowest ebb; and this is most frequently among those who have lost ground in the economic struggle."
How many of these breeding places will be left in the wake of this cataclysm? It is the hope of Miss Morris and all her profession that neighbors, friends, and relatives, as well as social workers professional and volunteer, shall see to it that courage goes out with their largess; and that the will to do for self shall not be crushed by want. By the spirit with which we bring men through a crisis must we measure the success of our job.
By My Fruits
By Bertha A. Kleinman
What shall it count that my ancestral tree Was planted back a thousand years B. C. That sires of mine were proud nobility— 'Tis fruits—not roots—shall speak at last for me!
What shall it count how deep the roots are graved, Or yet how high the topmost branch has waved, That storm and stress the weathered boughs have braved— 'Tis by my fruits my dynasty is saved.
What shall it count the ages it has grown, What of the land and clime where it was sown, This shall it count—my fruits shall make it known Who buds with Truth the branch that is my own!