We often think of men who are great in business as more or less cold toward the members of their own family. President Nibley, however, had as one of his outstanding characteristics, love, devotion, and generosity both as husband and father. His affection for his family was exceeded only by his faith and his devotion to Divine Providence. To his wives and children he was generous perhaps to a fault. All that he had and all that he enjoyed he wanted them also to have and enjoy. He was never happier than when surrounded by the members of his family. Making these happy gave him delight. He had his most enjoyable recreation at his family reunions. When surrounded by those dear to him by family ties he would relax and indulge in humor, in pleasantries, in fun-making to the great satisfaction of the members of his household. The humor, the wit, the repartee of his children on these happy occasions aroused pride and pleasure in his heart. On all such occasions it was also expected that the talented father would bring forth cheer, joy and admiration, not only with his keen native wit and spontaneous Scotch humor but with recitals of poetry, with stories of romance and with family and Church reminiscences.
And while these reunions were frequent Charles W. Nibley never let such an occasion go by without expressing to the members of his family his love for his Church, his devotion to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. He endeavored to impress upon the members of his household that a testimony of the Gospel, of the divinity of the message of the Prophet Joseph Smith is the greatest gift of God to man.
For their father, his children, every one, had genuine admiration. By them his greatness and ability were recognized and admired.
In large degree, the unselfishness, sympathy and generosity of this good man were enjoyed also by his friends. From them he received respect, admiration and affection because to them he was ever faithful, true, logical, and dependable. His devotion to a friend was unchanged and unchangeable. In his actions and conclusions he was guided by exalted and clear-cut standards, principles, and ideals. Vacillation to him was unknown. His explanation of the reason why a favor could not be granted and his expression of regret were so effective as to make disappointment easy to bear. His own feelings were so sensitive, were so fine, and his imagination so keen, that he could understand what disappointment and suffering meant to others. He spoke no unkind words. He seldom if ever showed a feeling of anger. His great heart was sad if others were sad.
The unusual powers of this man were the gift of God. He was born with a marvelous intellect. No other evidence of this is needed than that as a barefoot boy he studied, read, learned, loved, and understood Shakespeare as few college graduates understand the writings of this great literary genius.
His life on earth is finished. When will come again such another? I shall never forget the picture of his casket as it rested in the beautiful home of one of his daughters just before the lid was closed the last time. He has two living wives, and seventeen living sons and daughters, fifty-one grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. The two wives, all but one of his children, their married companions and many of the grandchildren were standing by to take a last look at that face which nearly always wore a smile, at those lips whose practice through eighty-two years of life was to speak words of wisdom, cheer and affection. As I looked at that great group standing about that open casket the words uppermost in my mind were: "A King." In eighty-two years he created a fortune, a family, a kingdom of his own. As I gazed with admiration I thought to myself, these descendants can have as their guiding star, as their ideal, no more exalted example than the life, the labor, the faithfulness, the honor, the sobriety, the nobility of their distinguished ancestor, Charles W. Nibley.
This family is a rich reward for that honest-hearted, religious man and wife who, away back in Scotland, recognized the voice of the Good Shepherd in the words which were uttered by humble missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. These fine Scotch folk were baptized almost immediately after hearing the Gospel. They devoted themselves for years to acquiring means enough to bring them to New Jersey. There they toiled on until they had saved sufficient to bring them to Utah. Their burdens were heavy, their responsibilities great, but greatest of all is their reward.