Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year, foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Will you be ready when he is? Investigate this N E MV mission HOTATOR Ms PILAINT I nemecuamcmaie Plan makes your savings systematic and Latter-day Saint families have been sure. It gives you these advantages: advised repeatedly to build a missionary fund for their children. Yet, despite e Reminds you to save regularly. ® Guarantees that the money will be good intentions — many of us save the available when the call comes — if the "put'ntake" method — we put some plan is fulfilled. In; take some out, and end up © Has paid-up options in case the plan about where we started. Can't be continued. © Provides flexibility to suit your income and needs. Call your Beneficial Life man about this plan — soon e If Dad should not live to complete the. Plan we pay premium automatically. Or mail the coupon below. @ Pays Mission funds either in monthly allotment checks or as a lump sum. COCO OCC eH eee eee oer eer ererecrerereresecererececececescecrococoo®s BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Beneficial Life Building — Salt Lake City, Utah LC] "i ti vines la more about your new "Mission: a FIC TAL LIFE Srsurance (a & Company NAME.... Dg QMO 05 c6noM obsooo naoancaaceusacee Virgil H. Smith, Pres. St) Lake City, Utah StreetorRFD oe ei pOocDeOmGODDD DONA Now over 600 Million dollars of Life Insurance in force. CITY STATE.. ZIPCODE Wa taxa. Wer a ¥