[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Feast Upon the Words of Christ" by Leone O. Jacobs]
LAURIE Nichols, small and slender, with auburn hair and eyes, and feeling every one of her thirty years, climbed into the seat beside David. Well, one era of her life was closing, another beginning, she supposed. Only she felt too tired, too numb to care.

She glanced at David. The angle of his jaw looked worried, the strong jut of his chin, anxious.

"I'm more sorry than I can tell, Miss Nichols. I'd have liked so much for you to stay on. Bobby loves you so."

Laurie's lips trembled, but she tried to speak lightly. "Bobby will soon forget. That is one advantage of being four years old, Mr. Kirby."

David pushed the key in slowly, turned it, and waited for the engine's response. "Well, feel free to come see him at any time. He'll be so glad..."

"Oh, no," Laurie interrupted. "I'm sure a clean break will prove better." She smiled. "No opening of old wounds, you know."

"Well, perhaps," David grudged as the car jerked and picked up speed. "At any rate, do rest a bit. Your work must have been confining. And it's been a long time."

"Yes," Laurie conceded, then stopped abruptly. She mustn't break down entirely. David hated scenes. But the time hadn't seemed long. It didn't when you loved your work.

He looked at her anxiously, then both lapsed into an awkward silence.

Finally she said, "Here's Corwin Street, the third house on the right. And thanks."

He pulled up to the curb, followed her with her bags, and placed them on the porch.

"Goodbye, Miss Nichols. And if I can help you at any time. References, you know," he added awkwardly.

"Thanks. I'll let you know," Laurie replied as she accepted his warm handshake and watched his tall, sturdy figure down the walk. Then she picked up her bags, opened the door, and went in.

"Hi, Emily," she called. "I'm back. That is, if you want me."

Emily, an older, heavier Laurie, spoke from the stair-top. "Come on up, Sis. I'm getting your room ready." She led the way. "See, new wallpaper, curtains, and all. Maybe you'll stay now?"

Laurie smiled vaguely. "I don't know, Emily." She took off her hat and threw it on the bed while she sank down on the dressing table stool. She turned suddenly. "Why on earth haven't you any children, Emily?" she asked. "Then I could mother them and love them, but never lose them."

"Why haven't you married and had a houseful of your own?"

"The sixty-four dollar question. You answer that," Laurie replied.

"All right, I will. You're a children's nurse. You shut yourself up with somebody else's kids. You never go anywhere or do anything except with a child hanging to your

posite of Paul, and all the more attractive because of that.

He was in insurance and real estate, he told her as they flashed along the highway toward Kingston. He had a small office downtown and was making out quite well.

"And it's about time," he added. "I'm thirty-three, plus." He turned in his seat. "Now, I've told my life story. What about you? Do you live with your sister?"

"Yes, for now." Then, disregarding Emily's caution, "I'm between jobs. I'm a children's nurse." She saw a surprised look on the face he turned again to her.

"You are? You take care of sick children?"

"Well, sometimes. Perhaps, governess would be the old-fashioned word for it. I take care of children who need it, whatever the reason."

He was silent for a moment. Then, "You know, that explains it. I thought you seemed sort of serious-minded." He grinned. "You