[Vol10 | July 1923 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Palace of Peace Annie D. Palmer]

The Palace of Peace Annie D. Palmer In the beautiful palace of peace lived Constance the princess, with her queen mother, A\phrodel. And Constance was beau= tiful?so beautiful that women and maidens shaded their eyes with their hands and looked for her long before they saw her in the paths where she was wont to walk with Aphrodel. And when she drew near their faces grew radiant with the joy of beholding her; and so all the women of the valley grew comely because of her presence. Now Jehu was a peasant lad whose mother gathered rags from the back yards and attics and closets of all the people of the country side. And Jehu wandered by the river banks in search of ducks and squirrels, as care-free as the very wild things which he sought. For if sometimes he went without food from need, he learned to shoot with truer aim, and so provide for his necessity. But at night he held his mether's hand while she talked of God's wondrous love and prayed for his continued care. One day Jehu followed a big, gray squirrel to the very wall that enclosed the palace park. The squ'rrel scarcely paused, but found a branch that lay against the wall and ran over it into all the luxuriance of the royal garden. Jehu took little more time than did the squirrel, for he had scaled stone walls before, and there was good footing on the same branch the squirrel had used. "Oh!" exclaimed a little maid, the most beautiful maid he had ever seen. "Oho!" answered Jehu, not knowing just what he ought to say in reply. "Are you a goblin?" asked the maid laughing. "Well, if I were the meanest goblin in the wood you'd be safe enough," Jehu answered joining in the laugh, "I never heard of a goblin hurting a fairy." "Did you think I was a fairy? Why, I am the Princess Constance, and I must go back to the palace now, before an awful goblin gobbles me up." "You're just as mistaken as I was. I am no goblin at all, but only the ragged lad Jehu. And the next time I come I hope you'll know the difference between honest rags and wicked gobblin.", "Perhaps you could teach me.' "I could teach you a lot of things you will never know about the birds and flowers outside your garden wall, and about people who might feel better for a look at you.' "Maybe I'll let you teach me some time," said the princess, 
 not displeased with the simple honesty of the lad. "Now you must get back over the wall quickly. I hear the gardener com- 9 ing. "The next afternoon Constance wandered again to the far end of the Palace Park, hoping that by some chance the boy would again climb the wall. She had waited for some time and at last decided that she would herself climb to the top of the wall and look over. There was a pile of loose stones on her side, so she got to the top with little difficulty. Meanwhile Jehu had been vainly trying to find a squirrel that would lead him over the wall, that he might have a reasonable excuse for going. Finding no squirrel that would go in that direction, he resolved to just look over anyway and see if the fairy were there. "Oh!" exclaimed the princess when she reached a point where she could look over, and lifting her head came face to face with the ruddy countenance of Jehu. "Oho!" the lad rejoined. "Where are you going, Fairy," "Only to the top of this wall, Goblin. I wanted to look over." They climbed to the top of the wall and sat there a long time chatting in the most innocent: child fashion about the beautiful flowers and plants that were inside the garden and the wonderful birds and animals that were without; and neither felt embarrassed because of the wide difference in their station, or knew the extent of the gulf man had fixed between peasant poverty and affluent rank. "Princess Constance, come down and away!" Jehu looked in the direction of the voice and saw a very dignified woman coming straight in the direction of the wall. He could tell by her manner that she had authority over the princess and also that she was very angry. He slid down on the outside of the wall quickly and stopped to listen.. "My child!" the woman's voice was firm and decided. "I must put closer watch around you. Why will you encourage visitors so disreputable and unfit?" "Mother, dear, he is a nice boy. I like?" "He is not fit for you to talk to, and you must not do it again. The gentlemen of our court have boys whose manner is more to our liking."' In lower tones she added: "You know, dear, I promised your father that no youth should ever associate with you who was not such a youth as your father loved. I must help you to grow to be the woman the best of men will admire." "But, mother?": Jehu knew the girl was pleading his cause, but they moved away, and he heard no more. The lad sat long in the shade of the old stone wall and dreamed. In and out, and out and in, wild fancies frolicked through his brain; but one resolution had come THE PALACE OF PEACE 337 in so many times that at last it found lodgment in a strongly fortified corner of his gray matter and would not be ousted. It was the determination to make himself fit. Just how to proceed in the transformation that was to render him a fit associate for a princess, he did not know; but he firmly believed it to be within his power, and with the resolve everlastingly fixed in his mind he arose and started homeward. At the cross-road that led from the courtyard gate, he met a well dressed man who strolled leisurely as if to enjoy to the fullest measure the warmth of the afternoon sun. Evidently he was just from the palace. No doubt he was entirely fit to converse with even the noble queen herself. Summoning all his courage the boy hurried his steps and came up beside the well dressed man. "If you please, sir?" he began timidly. "What!" the man turned on hin so fiercely that Jehu nearly lost his head. Had he known that at that very moment the man carried in his pocket a few thousand dollars worth of stolen jewels, he would not have been surprised at the fierceness. "I beg your pardon, sir," said Jehu, wondering if the fierceness belonged to the fitness. ''But you look so smooth and?" He hesitated for lack of courage. "Yes, yes," said the man quite amiably, now that he saw it was no detective that had come up with him, "go on." "And so fine looking," continued the lad, 'that 1 thought you might tell me how to become fit to go to the palace?and?to talk with the princess." The man laughed heartily and answered: 'Why, certainly, my boy, I can tell you that in two words. Get money. Yes, boy, get money, and then get more money; aud when you have got money enough, you will be fit for any place on earth." That sounded very reasonable to Jehu, for he had often thought before, that things would be vastly different for him if he had money. He talked it over with his mother that night?the fact that he must get money, not the reason for it; and together they decided that he should go to the mines of Goldburg and try to get on with a Mr. Lawson who once held Jehu's father in high regard. 'There are few really big men in the money world who may not be persuaded to give a boy a chance when once they are convinced of his earnestness of purpose. Jehu was so desperately in earnest that the earnestness showed plainer than any other trait or training. So Mr. Lawson readily took him on and gave him a good shift. Jehu worked as few boys ever worked. As a result he soon made himself indispensable to Mr. Lawson, and commanded an ever increasing salary as the months and years went by. And ever 
 MAGAZINE he carried in his heart the image of the beautiful princess, and always amid the hum and buzz of busy machinery he heard the words of the gentleman of the highway: "Yes, boy, get money, and then get more money; and when you have got money enough, you will be fit for any place on earth." He took very little rest in those days, and spent almost nothing for pleasure. Once each month he sent a few dollars to his mother, who still continued to gather rags, and so looked upon his paltry gifts as wonderfully great. The rest of his earnings he deposited safely where after a time the dividends were far greater than his earnings. So the business went on until a day when Mr. Lawson took him into partnership. It now occurred to Jehu that he would leave his interests for a time in the hands of trusty agents and betake himself to the Court of Peace, to see if perchance he might now gain admission to the palace. As his carriage rolled gayly into the adjoining village he saw his mother carrying on her head a large bundle of rags, such as he had carried for her many times in days long past. Ordering the carriage to stop he gave the old woman a coin and asked, "Have you fo son, my good woman? That you carry such heavy burdens?" "Indeed, I have a son," she answered proudly, "but he is a great man in the city of Goldburg, and sends me money every month. How could he stay here to carry burdens for me? When he can he will send enough to keep me. Then I shall carry burdens no more." Some years ago this remark would have hurt his conscience immensely but it hurt only a little now. He had been so engrossed in the getting of wealth that his conscience was not keenly awake. Hastening on he soon came to the hotel, where were Hans Otterstrom and his wife, Mar'e, and his daughter Metta who was now quite spinsterly, and several younger Otterstroms whom he remembered quite well in spite of the years that were gone. They all stared at him in his splendid clothes and grand carriage, as if he were the king of Holland that had come to stay a fortnight with them; and they gave him the best room in the house with an air of humility that showed well how they regarded him. He was rather glad to be unknown thus far, feeling sure, however, that the Princess Constance would know and welcome him. The next day he donned his costliest apparel, and as he drew near the palace, gave gifts of gold that it might be noised about how great a personage approached. Then he sent to the queen a costly gift of gems, and at the gates awaited her invitation to enter. He waited long, so long that his hope died; but at last a courtier came, returning the gift of gems, but bidding him enter and be at ease. THE PALACE OF PEACE 339 Within the, sacred recesses of a private chamber had Aphrodel and Constance held council while he waited. "A man of wealth, my daughter, is without the gates. He sends me precious gems of rare beauty and great price. But Eli reports that he does not even know the name of our Master, that he is an alien?perhaps an enemy." "Then what were all his wealth, most gracious mother? If he be not first an honest man and next a Christian, why should we seek to know him? Return his gift, I pray you, and let him go his way." "My daughter the princess, has indeed learned wisdom iu the experiences of the past. The gift shall surely be returned. But lest we shall deal too harshly, let us welcome the stranger for a time, that mayhap he may learn to know the name we love and so gain that to which his gems may never be compared." "My mother queen is wise and good,' answered the princess, "so let it be." A For two weeks Jehu had the freedom of the palace. For two weeks he mingled with the lords and ladies of the court; but in all that time he was not able to get a word in private with the princess. He saw her to be sure, and revelled in her beauty, a beauty beyond his fondest dreams; but in the feastings, the outings, the ? games, she sought always the companionship of her mother or some other matronly woman of the court. So, though he was treated with the kindest consideration and though he knew they were not ignorant of the vastness of his wealth, it became clear to him that he was not yet considered fit. On the last evening of his stay at the palace he sought out the most popular of the courtiers and asked in confidence what other thing than gold was necessary to a favored life at court. "You must get fame, my dear fellow, fame!" replied the courtier slapping him on the shoulder. "Fame?how?" asked Jehu in astonishment. "There are many ways," answered his advisor. "Me? I have fought in many battles. I wear scars that I got when we took this country from the infidel. Then there is Count Tavoskey. He was with the great exploring expedition and, well, 1 don't know; and Baron Van Vogenen, ne has made books and so?and so." "I see. A fellow must do some deed that is all his own? that is different from the others." "Exactly." With a heavy heart Jehu went forth next morning. He did not even try to speak with the princess nor with her mother. He simply left his message of appreciation with Count Tavoskey, and went out to face the task of winning fame. Had he gone to his mother, it may be?but he had well nigh forgotten his mother, so great had been his greed for gold. 
 The winning of fame seemed a much harder task to the man than the getting of wealth had seemed to the boy, but he was none the less determined. Many nights he lay thinking about it until the day was nearly dawning. So many ways were suggested, and in all he seemed so unlikely to win success. There was war, as the courtier had said; and exploring; and there was music and medicine and art?if one could only reach the top in any one. And there was law. He stopped there. The field seemed to widen into wonderful possibilities. Yes, it must be law. While his partnership with Mr. Lawson was netting him vast returns, Jehu went to college and studied law. The habits of thrift and industry he had acquired in early manhood stood him in good stead now, and he applied himself with his old time zeal to his study. It was not enough for him that he was able to pass his examinations, not enough that he kept ahead of his classes. He must absolutely know all there was to learn of the lessons as he went along. If he must get fame in order to accomplish his desires, the sooner he gained fame the better. He took his degree in an incredibly short time, and set up for practice in a city a hundred miles from the Palace of Peace. "Twill practice law without price,' he said, "then surely some case will come to me that will give me fame." So he heard men's difficulties and settled their disputes, and showed much wisdom in the decisions and judgments he rendered. And people came from far and near to the court where judgments were given without price; and it began to be noised abroad that Jehu was the greatest lawyer in all the land. It happened now that Aphrodel had sought advice from seven lords regarding matters of importance to her realm; and each, afraid his judgment would displease her highness the queen, had acknowledged himself unable to decide. So Queen Aphrodel sent a messenger to Jehu and summoned him to hear her at the palace. With eager haste and joyous hope he went in answer to her summons. With quiet dignity he listened to her argument?then answered straightway from the wisdom of his learning. The queen was satisfied and offered gold. But Jehu said: "Why should I accept from your most gracious Highness that which never yet I have taken from your subjects? It is sufficient that the queen is pleased." "Take then my grateful thanks," said Aphrodel, "and the thanks of the Princess Constance. But stay. My daughter shall herself express her pleasure." The great man bowed low in obeisance as the queen departed. Joy quickened the beating of his heart until it was almost audible. At last he was to hold converse with Constance, the one woman in all the world he adored. She, the object of all his years of THE PALACE OF PEACE 341 toil, of all his years of study, of all his: years of striving! She was to express pleasure in his success. The courtier had told him right. Fame was, indeed, the magic word to captiva'e the heart of woman. The princess entered the apartment. As she paused an instant in the doorway it seemed to Jehu that never since the world was made had so enchanting a creature been seen by mortal man. His heart fairly bounded in his breast, and he was riveted to the spot where he stood as if he were turned to stone. Then she came forward and smilingly extended the tips of her fingers. He took them coldly?it was impossible to do otherwise?and lifted them to his lips. The princess gave no sign of recognition, no indication of desired friendship. The words she uttered could have been spoken to any other man who had done her mother a service. "You have helped my mother, the queen, to solve some difficult problems," she said. "I am very grateful to you. These court matters weigh heavily on mother's mind and cause her many sleepless nights." "Tt shall be my greatest pleasure to serve her," answered Jehu. "The knowledge I have gained concerning the affairs of state, is best used when it is of value to her majesty." "We shall remember," replied Constance. "Your name is known both far and near. Whatever your ambition may be it will in no way suffer from the assistance you have given us." There was something in the toss of her head that told Jehu the interview was ended. A slight gesture of her hand brought an attendant from the open doorway. She had scarcely ceased to speak when he entered. "Orland," she continued, "see that the Honorable Jehu is given the kindest consideration, for as long time as he desires to remain in our palace. Introduce him to our minister of state, show him the library, the garden, and what ever else may interest him." Orland saluted, turned on his heel, and led the way from her presence followed by the lawyer and statesman, who would have given his fortune to continue the interview for another hour. Twelve days he remained at the castle, and was sought and flattered by lords and ladies of many provinces. And daily he saw the princess and worshiped her from afar; but not once could he converse with her alone. "T am still unfit!' he said to himself sadly. "Respectable I seem, indeed, to have become, but I am still unfit?still unfit." Sorrowing he passed the portals of the palace to go out again to seek some unknown goal. Wealth had failed to win ihe princess and fame had failed. What venture should he try next? While he pondered he came up with an old man leaning on a staff. As he was about to pass, the old man touched him on the arm. 
 "Whither goest thou?" he asked. "To my work," answered Jehu. "Hast heard the good tidings?" "Indeed, no," replied the great man, beginning to show interest. "Come and sit with me on the green bank, and I will tell it thee." The old man's eyes sparkled with intelligence and his countenance was alight with joy. Jehu was atiracted by the earnestness of his manner and sat down as he was bidden. 'Tactfully, beautifully, and intelligently, the humble minister of Christ explained to him the gospel which is, indeed, good tidings to all people. The great man listened with an interest he had never felt before. What to him was wealth or fame, the pleasure of life or the beauties of. Earth, if in the pursuit of them he should lose his own soul? It became clear to him that he was pursuing a phantom, and he resolved as he sat with God's servant by the wayside, that he would forsake the phantom and henceforth seek the Kingdom of God. Within the week Jehu received baptism at the hands of the disciple of Christ. He had been duly warned that Satan would seek to lead him astray, to destroy him; but he never could. Have imagined the fierceness of the conflict. It was as if all the hosts of hell arrayed themselves against him. The struggle against his own weakness was appalling. The opposition from his friends was a constant sorrow. The mockery and ridicule of men whose opinions he had valued galled him. And the terrible array of false accusations that confronted him was almost overpowering. But constantly he went to God in prayer, and always he found there comfort and strength for the battle. Gradually his law practice fell away. His fame was overshadowed by another, who was not encumbered by the name of Christian. His vast possessions seemed to take wings and vanish; for men ceased to transact business with one who had ceased to be worldly; and besides he had given large sums to his church. When he thought about the princess now, it was the thought of one dead to him. His only wish for her was that she might know the joy of the message he had heard. He sent more money to his mother now, and a day in June, when earth was in her lovliest garb, set out on foot to visit her in the village near the Palace of Peace. The old woman had gone out as usual that morning gathering her bundle of rags for the habits of a lifetime are not broken without considerable cause. As she proceeded homeward, staggering under the heavy burden, she was met by a young peasant woman who offered assistance and carried the load home on her strong and shapely shoulders. When they reached the humble cottage the old dame, out of gratitude, invited the young THE PALACE OF PEACE 343 woman in te have a cup of tea. The offer was accepted eagerly and soon the feeble old crone and the comely young woman were chatting and laughing merrily over their cups. A loud knock at the door made them look up at once. The old crone was at once clasped in the embrace of her son who had introduced himself with the one word, "Mother." The young woman said simply: "T am Evelyn Grace. I came with your mother to carry a burden that was too heavy for her." "She is doing Christ's bidding, Jehu, in ministering to one of the least of these. She has not told me she is a Christian, but I know?yes, I know!" "Yes," answered the young woman, "I have truly taken upon me the name of Christ, and have for a long time been trying to be worthy to bear the name. I, too, am one of the least." A cup of tea was soon set for Jehu, with some brown bread and but'er added, and together the new friends talked and rejoiced in the gospel of love and peace. The stn had set and twilight was deepening over the valley, when the young woman arose to take her departure. She declined Jehu's offer to accompany her, but promised to come to the co'tage again on the morrow to hold further converse regarding the Christian faith, and to bring a choice book she had been reading. Acquaintances quickly ripen into friendship under conditions such as these, and before a week had passed, the man had asked the maid, and she had consented to become his wife. His happiness knew no bounds. This young woman seemed so much more beautiful than the princess had ever been; for besides being so exquisitely fair of face, she had a soul so pure and true it made her whole countenance to beam with light. Daily she came to the cottage. Always she went away when the shadows of night began to fall. When she was gone Jehu would sit and dream of her goodness and her beauty, and the most satisfying thing of all, that she loved a being so humble as himself. Often it semed to him that she was wonderfully like the princess except that Evelyn's wavy coils of hair were black and those of the princess were golden. Within a fortnight they were to be wed. The woman had expressed a strange fancy for having. The ceremony take place in a beautiful nook in the woods, where her mother and his, should be the sole witnesses of the solemn compact, which a minister friend of hers would solemnize. It seemed somewhat strange to Jehu but it was a simple request. Why should she not have her way? It was a perfect afternoon in early summer. Jehu had hired a carriage and brought his mother from the cottage. They met 
 Evelyn as had been arranged, under the big oak tree near the village inn. Her dress was simple, in fact no one seeing her would notice her dress at all; for her face was wreathed in such a halo of happiness and joy that to see her was to be held entranced. By her side was the minister leaning on his cane?the same minister who had stopped Jehu by the way and taught him the gospel of Christ. When greetings were over these two took seats in the carriage and the woman directed the way they were to go. It may be that as they came upon the familiar nook by the old stone wall, the man gave a passing thought to the fairy he had met there once upon a time; but there were no regrets. An elderly woman in plain attire awaited them, and gree'ed all warmly as they alighted from the carriage. The cermony was very short, but it contained every element of a truly Christian marriage; and when Jehu kissed the lips of the queenly bride, he felt as if heaven had opened, and from its portals one of the fairest of the angels had come to be his own. The little party now entered the carriage, Evelyn taking her place by the side of her husband. "To the place,' said she in decisive tones, and wondering the man obeyed. Within the gates, all was grandeur and gayety and rejoicing. The elderly woman in the carriage received homage and gave commands. Lords and ladies thronged about and greeted the newly wedded pair. The bride hurried to an inner room followed closely by the most astonished husband that was ever wed. Leaving him for a few brief moments, she re'urned clad in the raiment of the court of Aphrodel. Jehu arose as she entered, and stood riveted to the Spot with wonder and admiration. "My husband," the woman said in her most gracious manner, "you must pardon my deception. It has long been my custom to go among our subjects in this bit of disguise." As she spoke she laid aside the coils of raven hair and disclosed the braids of gold?'but our marriage vows are taken. You could not undo them if you would. I am your wife Constance. Let us henceforth abide in the Palace of Peace." "My princess," answered Jehu, "you cannot know. I am poor! I have lost my possessions! My power, my influence are gone." The princess stayed him by a gesture. "But you have found that," she said, ''beside which all else is nought. It is the boon for which my father prayed! It is the price for which my love was held! It is the greatest gift of God to man!