(Continued from page 33) roof of our dwelling was covered deeper with earth than the adjoining ones, consequently did not leak as soon, and some of my neighbors huddled in for shelter. One evening as several were sitting socially conversing in my room, the water commenced dripping in one place and then in another, and so on; they dodged it for a while, but it increased so rapidly, they concluded to return to their own wet houses.
After they left, Sally wrapped herself in her buffalo robe on the floor, and I spread my umbrella over my head and shoulders as I ensconced myself in bed, the lower part being unhitched dry, wet enough before morning.
During the night, despite all discomfiture, I laughed involuntarily while alone in the darkness of the night I lay reflecting on the ludicrous scene. The earth overhead being fully saturated, after it commenced to drip, the storm was much worse inside than out, and as the water coursed through the willows and pattered on the floor, waked the stones from the earth above, and they went clink, clink, while the numerous mice which the storm had driven in for shelter, ran squealing back and forth?the Indian girl asleep on the floor, altogether made the situation rather romantic.
A little now about the Indian girl. The same Indian who brought her, had, a short time previous, brought an Indian boy whom they offered for sale, saying they would kill him at sun-down if not purchased. Our people did not credit their threat, but when too late for remedy, learned that it was promptly executed, which prompted some of my neighbors to purchase Sally (whose Indian name was Pitash) when brought in and offered for sale with the same threat; and was placed in charge of L. C. Young. Under our mutual care and cultivation, she very soon became disgusted with her native habits?became neat and tasteful in dress, and delicate in appetite, although at first she crammed herself like a dog. When she had sufficiently learned to communicate her ideas to our language, she informed us that she was of the Pibandy tribe?that her father died ?her mother married again?her step-father was cruel to her and sold her to those of whom she was a captive. She proved to be a good, virtuous woman, and died beloved by all who knew her.
(To be continued)
SUMMER PRIMARY MERITS SUPPORT
THE Primary Association is continuing regular meetings during the summer months. Five specific activity bulletins have been distributed as follows: (1) art and crafts; (2) nature and wood lore; (3) games and plays; (4) drama and literature; (5) music. Local organizations will select from this list the activity which they wish to feature. Home cooking and sewing projects will be conducted for girls, and victory gardening and carpentry will be included for boys. The program based on any of these activities should be very attractive to children of Primary age. The Primary is to be complimented upon much leisure time, and may be encouraged to have good attendance during the season when they are out of school and have so much leisure time, and especially will this be so in war time when their services may be needed at Primary. 
 ?JUNE 1944
Mark E. Petersen Named Apostle (Continued from page 299) Mormonism, a speaker much in demand by Church congregations everywhere. Elder Petersen's short career to date has been one of continuous Church service. He filled a mission to Eastern Canada from 1920 to 1922. He has served successively since as a member of the Liberty Stake high council and stake presidency, and the Highland Stake high council and Sugar House stake presidency. He has had long activity with the Genealogical Society, first as a member of the convention staff, and, since 1934, as a director of the society. He is also a former member of the Deseret Sunday School Union General Board. The new apostle brings to his high calling another unusual talent ?an ability in writing. He has achieved in this field, the hard way, beginning as a reporter on the editorial staff of The Deseret News in 1924. His abilities were soon recognized, and Elder Petersen received continuous advancement, becoming news editor, city editor, managing editor, and then general manager of this official Church publication, a position which he now holds. As his scope of influence now widens in pursuit of his added responsibilities, Elder Petersen will draw to him many new friends and associates. They will learn to know and appreciate him for his friendliness and his courtliness as well as his leadership. His pleasing personality added to his unwavering testimony, his loyalty and devotion to duty, and inherent abilities give promise of great achievements by this new junior member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.