[Vol7 | February 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson]

Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson. (Continued) I found the shepherd lying on the ground at the foot of a large and steep ledge of rocks. As I appeared in view, he looked up at me and through his pain, he still smiled. Then a look of fear came into his eyes and he stared at me with his big brown eyes. He was a boy, a big, handsome boy. A mass of neat brown hair lay in deep contrast against the pallor of his cheek. I unslung my burdens from my shoulder and went up to him. Seeing the fear in his face, I spoke to him, telling him not to be afraid. My voice and face must have assured him of my friendliness, for he put his hands on his leg and uttered some strange words. Seeing that I could not understand him, he pointed up to the cliff, and then again to his leg;  and then I understood. He had fallen down the rocks and broken his leg. Oh, how my heart went out to that boy! I loved him from that moment even as I love him yet. At the sight of him lying there suffering, yet looking up into my strange face with a sad, trusting smile, something came back into my heart, something came back into my life, something of boyhood's life and joys, and oh, I was so glad! A little lamb came limping up to his master, but at sight of me, it stopped and gave its piteous cries. The boy looked as it, then at me, and then up again at the rocks. I once more understood. It was while rescuing the lamb from a dangerous position that he had met with the accident. I placed my blanket under the boy's head and then looked at the injured limb. I was unable to do much in such an emergency, but I placed the bones as nearly in position as I could, and then using small willow stems for splints, wound around it strips of cloth. Then the only thing to be done was to get him to other help. We tried to talk to each other, but that was useless. r Though he was a big boy, I lifted him on to my back and carried him down towards the sheep. The lamb limped along by our side. The boy pointed the way which I was to take, and it was not long before we came in sight of a small house, built of stones and covered with a turf roof. I carried him in and placed him on a bed in a corner of the room. 
 His leg must have pained him cruelly, but he was very patient and considerate. I was somewhat faint from the exertion, and when he saw it he pointed to a cupboard-shaped piece of furniture in another corner of the room. I went to it, and on opening a door, found plenty of food. There was bread, cheese, meat, and some other articles quite strange to me, and a jar of milk. I brought some of the food to the low table by the bed and offered it to the boy. He motioned me back to the cupboard and I soon had knives and dishes. Some of the dishes were of metal, and some of light earthenware. The sick boy broke some bread and cut a large piece of meat, placing them where I was to eat. Then he poured out a bowl of milk for me and motioned me to partake. He began mincing a little himself, and I then fell to with a right good appetite. The bread was of rye and barley, and it tasted delicious — and the milk! It was nectar to my lips. I could see that the boy was worrying about his sheep. The sun was getting around again to the north, which in any other part of the earth meant that night and darkness would be coming on. I went out and with very little trouble drove the sheep in close to the hut, where they soon lay down and became quiet. When my companion learned this, he thanked me with a clasp of his hand. I sat there by his couch, he holding my hand and I looking into his face, trying to understand his strange language. I brushed back the hair from his forehead. My touch could not have been more reverential had it been the fair face of a girl. The boy was tired, and slept between the times of greatest pain;  and I also must have dozed a little. I realized that I must find assistance. I managed to make him understand this, and also that if he could give me some kind of a note to his friends, it would greatly help me. I did not know whether he could write or not, but he soon convinced me of that. By his direction I found his writing material which consisted of some small pieces of thin, prepared skin, an instrument resembling a steel pen, and a bottle of black ink. On one of these sheets, he soon had something written, which to me was just as foreign as his speech. He pointed out to me the direction which I should take, and with a cheery smile and wave of the hand I left him and proceeded rapidly on my way. (To be continued.)