[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: ADDRESS TO GENERAL ASSEMBLY D. R. | Author: EMMELINE B. WELLS]

ADDRESS TO GENERAL ASSEMBLY D. R.
Madame President General and Ladies:
	It is almost impossible for one of an emo-
tional temperament to express in words
what the heart prompts on an occasion like
this. We are proud to honor the heroes of
today who fought at Santiago and stormed
San Juan—but our souls are large enough
not only to lay trophies at the feet of the
brave men of the present, but to remember
those that set them the example of main-
taining liberty and establishing indepen-
dence: the brave men who fought with the
immortal Washington, and made it possible
for the generations after them to enjoy the
fruits of their great victories; the seed they
planted, not only in the soil of America,
but in the hearts of their countrymen, their
children and children’s children.
	To perpetuate their valiant deeds in
bronze and marble is eminently proper and
fitting, a noble duty and a grand achieve-
ment; but we who live today can do even
more; we can help maintain the principles
for which the Revolutionary fathers bled
and died. It is more noble, more patriotic,
to live for a sublime principle, to attain an
exalted standard of excellence, worthy the
highest aspirations of the human heart,
than to build shrines to the memory of
Saints or heroes.
	When one is mindful of the fact that here
assembled are hundreds of the daughters of
heroes and heroines of the Revolution, and
looking backward retrospectively imagine

[Column 2]
the hosts on “the other side” whom these
represent here, recounting their heroism,
their deeds of valor, does it not thrill
every fibre of one’s being with the ardor of
that patriotism with which they who have
passed away were inspired? Shall we not
be zealous in this good cause, and see to it
that as far as it is in our power, our children
and the generations yet unborn shall per-
petuate the memory of the men who suf-
fered for liberty—that some of our contem-
poraries hold so lightly and make no effort
to <honor> their names.
	I fear the children of the present age are
taught more of the heroes of Greece and
Rome than of those of their own native
land. Our poets sing of the troubadours
and crusaders, and extol their deeds of
valor and of adventure, and neglect their
own forefathers, whose thrice precious in-
heritance of freedom they possess and for
which many of them render no fitting
tribute.
	Cannot some of our great American
writers be inspired to give us more songs of
America, such as shall thrill the masses of
the people with exalted ideas of true liberty?
	If we would maintain in our beloved
country the principles of justice and up-
rightness, then we must ourselves be living
exponents of these exalted ideals and attain-
ments, that the children may partake and
be imbued with the same spirit, that when
we go hence, those who follow after may
continue the good work that has already
made such marked progress in the last few
years, the Society of the Daughters of the
Revolution.
	All honor to the noble women who
founded it; whose hearts have assuredly
been turned to the fathers by a portion of
that spirit, spoken of in the Scriptures in the
last verse of the last chapter of the Old
Testament.
	And, in conclusion, my dear fellow-
laborers, above all “Let us love one
another.”
			EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	New York City, April 24, 1900.


