GENEALOGY. 23 Next to motherhood ideals, there is nothing more essential for mothers to impress upon their daughters than the necessity of understanding the art of sewing. Integrity, independence, thrift, and comeliness are taught in this art. The following rules should be observed: Sit in an upright position. Make your stitches even. Use a thimble. Never bite your thread. Keep clean hands. Never pin your sewing to your knee. "What is worth doing, is worth doing well." If the above rules will not appeal to the "new" rich, many of the "old" rich have become so by following out these principles. Genealogy. As our readers will discover, our genealogical lessons this year will be given simply in the form of outlines. We are fortunate in having an excellent lesson book as a foundation for the information to be taken up. Therefore, in this Department, we design not so much to give information in regard to the study of genealogy, as to make it a means of interchange between genealogical committees, in the various stakes and wards of the Relief Society, and to print from time to time reports of the work accomplished in the different branches of the Society. There are several stakes in which splendid work has been done, in following out the genealogical outlines given in last year's guide; but when the matter was discussed at the October conference, even these stakes decided that it. would be a profitable thing to begin our lessons all over again, going more slowly, and taking them up more in detail. This is the plan, therefore, that will be followed. We invite inquiries concerning methods of presentation of work, pertaining to lessons or genealogy in general or particular: also, we would be pleased to receive individual questions which will be printed in this Department, and individual answers will be given, when possible. We invite the co-operation of everyone interested in genealogy throughout the Relief Society of the' Church. BOND FAMILY. Does any one know William Bond, who came to Utah in 1855 or 1856? Any of his family who may be living would confer a favor and receive most valuable genealogical help by writing to, T. Edward Bond, 501 Market Street, San Francisco, California.