Notes from the Field. Salt Lake Stake Relief Society. The first organized stake of Zion in this intermountain region was the Salt Lake stake. The first Stake Board of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society was organized in 1877. There were then 46 branches scattered throughout the city and the county. That splendid pioneer mother, M. Isabella Home, was at that time made president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, and this position she held for nearly thirty years. Out of Salt Lake City and County have been organized seven stakes, each with its separate officers and distinct religious autonomy. In April, 1904, Mrs. Clarisssa S. Williams was chosen President of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society which position she held until Sept. 26, 1908, when she was released in order to give more time to the work of the General Board of which she was Treasurer. Her counselor. Mrs. Harriet B. Harker, was then made President of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, which position she holds to the present time. Shortly after she went into office, Mrs. Williams instituted weekly meetings, as it was considered impossible to accomplish everything desired, in the monthly or semi-monthly meetings. Studies have been outlined and printed, and great activity along all lines has constantly marked the work of this great, original stake. Three years ago, under the direction of the priesthood, special meetings were called and missionaries appointed to visit every woman in the stake. This accomplished a great deal of good. Since the General Board have issued outlines, this stake has chosen committees of three to take charge of the genealogical study, and of the mother's work. Monthly meetings are held in the famous old Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall. This is a united Board, and a spirit of cheerful activity permeates every branch of their work. Ogden Stake. Out of the many stakes which have been organized in the past five years, the Ogden stake is, perhaps, one of the most active. It was organized on the 19th of July, 1908. the Ogden stake being an of shoot from Weber stake. There are ten wards in the stake, and the stake and ward officers hold weekly stake board meetings in connection with the presidency of the stake, and the 
 expected of him. Instead, he drew courage from the abstraction of the traveler to rise and again slide into the congested mass of human beings who were crowding in and out of the great city gates, prodded and harried as most of them were by the city guards with sharp swords and long javelins in their hands. Just as the full rays of the revealed sun beat glowingly upon the double leaves of the ponderous gates, now opening wide, a dusty horseman, the outrider of a large party of approaching horsemen, raised his hand in a token or sign of some kind, and instantly the gates swung back swiftly upon their bronze posts built into the thirty-foot walls surrounding the city of Ur. "The horseman is the horseman of the Prince of Ur, the sign is the sign of kingly authority, and the party must contain either the prince himself, or his father, the Petesi. In either case it behooves me to wait," mused the irascible traveler, whose slender form and brilliant face seemed equally as accustomed to smiles as to frowns. The sky is bluer when seen through occasional clouds. Up from the plains of the distant north, came a rapid cavalcade of shepherd soldiers, whose broad scimitars and white turbans, with wide flowing veils of snowy whiteness, had a look of simple strength and vigor that contrasted well with the panoplied warriors of the Assyrian soldiery near the gateway. "Make way for the Prince," shouted the sentries, and the crowds, already pressed within and without with stifling haste, screamed as they fled from the strokes of sword or stave; but at least, the path was cleared for the oncoming party. "The Prince of Ur, by all that awaits me in life" said the traveler. But he made no move to join or to intercept the long cavalcade now trotting under the long, high gateway. All of the shepherd host were tall, all were lithe and sinewy, all were very alert and haughty in their supreme bodily control. But he that sat upright on his snow-white charger, nearly at the head of the party, yet surrounded by a dozen eager guards, who scanned the multitude and swept the very heavens with their challenging eyes of midnight glow, needed no guard to protect his majestic presence from defilement, nor soldiers to add to his gracious dignity. For that very unfathomable reason, he was the human magnet that drew all service to meet his own ends, and he attracted abject obedience with his simple, quiet presence. "Twenty years is a long time," again mused the merchant, speaking his thought aloud. "Longer than love, and more destructive than doubt," answered a voice at his elbow. The merchant turned quickly. "Fools and brawlers interrupt the meditations of the wise!" The traveler gazed keenly into the other olive-skinned face now turned quietly towards him. "Open thine eyes, Javanu, and sharpen thy wits.