[Vol29 | March 1942 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Annie Wells Cannon]
Cannon S the centennial of Relief SoA ciety approaches, I am looking backward recalling faces and figures of the iia women leadEMMA HALE SMITH General President of Relief Society 1842-44 ers of the organization.
Hundreds of them I have known, but outstanding among them are the "elect" women designated president.
Truly grateful am I that I have intimately known them all, with one exception?Emma Hale Smith.
Acquaintance with these women has been a rare experience that has enriched my life immeasurably. When I was a young girl, a choice group of "the leading sisters" occasionally met in a social way in the homes ofeach other.
They would relate incidents and experiences of the early days in the Church, bear their testimonies and sing praises to PAGE 166 the Lord. Why I was permitted to be present on these occasions I know not, save that in later years I might testify of the things I learned.
There were present women from Nauvoo, some of them charter members of the Relief Society.
They often spoke of "Sister Emma," and from them I have in mind a picture of her like an etching. MMA HALE SMITH was a tall, raceful, dark-eyed woman with an oval face and an abundance of dark hair. She was high-spirited and animated. The early years of her married life brought many disappointments and sorrows which she met with courage.
When at long last she had seeming security in her Nauvoo home, she was gracious in hospitality, generous, and sympathetic. | Under her leadership the Relief Society was well launched and started on its way to advancement.
Again came persecution, her tragic widowhood, and the exodus from Illinois in which she elected not to join. To others fell the task to carry on. BLIZA ROXEY SNOW was held > by the women of the Church as an ne She was a distinct Hebraic type, refined, intellectual, and sublimely spiritual. Her presence demanded attention and respect, a silent, undemonstrative admiration. She had dark, piercing eyes, dark hair which she wore smoothly parted under a cap of black lace and velvet rib- RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENTS bon. Her attire was always neat and of somber colors, and she was most precise in speech and manner. The picture seems austere, but she was ELIZA R. SNOW General President of Relief Society 1866-87 teally very human, and her greatest desire was the welfare and advancement of the women of the Church, to whom her word was law.
Only twice do I remember when her counsel went unheeded.
Once was in the days of retrenchment and reform when she designed a uniform called "The Deseret Costume," advising its adoption. The older sisters were not enthusiastic, and the younger ones rebelled.
After all, she was just about one hundred years ahead of the times, for the slacks and blouses worn today are very similar in style.
Another occasion was on one of her birthdays when her friends gave her a long, black silk cape with a crimson velvet lining. She insisted that it be changed for one with a less brilliant lining, but they put it around her and seated her like a queen; she 167 laughingly yielded to their persuasions. She had a rather ascetic life, officiating daily in the House of the Lord, writing prose and poetry, ZINA D. H. YOUNG General President of Relief Society 1888-1901 studying and reading, and communing in prayer?a worthy example to Latter-day Saint women. ZINA D. HUNTINGTON YOUNG, known throughout the Church as "Dear Aunt Zina," was greatly loved for her broad charity?charity in accordance with the admonition of Paul. To her, Relief Society owes its watchword, "Charity Never Faileth." It is sweet to recall her kindly ways, her motherly solicitude, her beautiful madonna-like face, her soft voice and serene dignity. She was a good neighbor and an unfailing friend. She had an understanding heart, and those who heeded her wise counsel did not make mistakes. I recall many circumstances which were tragic enough to cause anger or 168 despair in those concerned, when Aunt Zina would grasp the situation in her calm, placid manner and create a peaceful atmosphere; her influence was like oil on the troubled waters. Her gifts were many.' She was an eloquent speaker; she could stir one to tears or wonder when she related stories of her experiences. She had the gift of tongues and the interpretation thereof. On the occasions referred to when the sisters met in their home socials, I have heard Elizabeth Ann Whitney sing in this gift and Aunt Zina give the interpretation; both were aged women whose voices generally were not good, but on these occasions their voices were like the voices of young women, and the words of blessing were in beautiful verse. ATHSHEBA W. SMITH was a queenly woman, large of stature and of commanding presence. She was the last survivor of that choice group of eighteen charter members of Relief Society, and she often testified of the Prophet Joseph's teaching on the blessed occasion of the organization of the Society. One of Aunt Bathsheba's characteristics was a sympathetic understanding of young people. She had had a romantic gitlhood and even in her eighties still enjoyed reading an oldfashioned love story. I recall with a'smile an occasion when she visited one of our Retrenchment meetings.
Some of the sisters were advising the girls "not to follow the wicked fashions of the world, and to discard their frills and furbelows."
Some of the girls spoke and promised to cut the ruffles from their skirts. Then Aunt Bathsheba stood up in all her dignity and said, "I was married at  eighteen, and my husband, Brother George A. Smith, said to me, 'Don't think you are an old lady because you are married, and that you have BATHSHEBA W. SMITH General President of Relief Society 1901-10 to give up your girlish ways.
Carry your starch bag in your reticule to keep the shine off your face, and be as beautiful as you can." (These were the days before make-up.) I believe there were not many discarded ruffles, and the girls all loved her. MMELINE B. WOODWARD WELLS was delicately exquisite in face and figure, keen of mind, refined, intelligent, loyal, and tender; yet with it all she was the most courageous and valiant woman I have ever known. For nearly forty years she was secretary of the Relief Society, during which time her life was like a golden thread weaving together the activities, struggles and achievements of the Society into a beautiful tapestry. The Exponent, the wheat, the silk, the Deseret Hos- - RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENTS pital, the Woman's Store, these and the lives of the Latter-day Saint women, all were her concern. She loved the society of children and EMMELINE B. WELLS General President of Relief Society 1910-21 'young people, and her beautiful testimony of her first meeting with the Prophet Joseph Smith and the scene in the Grove when the mantle of the Prophet fell upon Brigham Young has been borne to thousands from the pulpit and by the fireside. She had passed her eightieth birthday when she was called by President Joseph F'.
Smith to the general presidency of the Relief Society, which office she held for eleven years. She was the last of that Nauvoo group, a silver link in the chain binding the old and the new. LARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS was the first of Utah's native daughters chosen for this office of General President of Relief Society,. An office which she graced with unusual poise and efficiency. As a young girl she was a bright, 169 industrious student and a_ leader among her playmates. At an early age she evidenced the qualities necessary for her later activities. She, CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS General President of Relief Society 1921-28 like a number of other young girls, was called into the Relief Society by President Brigham Young to learn to braid straw that we might be able to make our own hats.
Clarissa was one who accomplished that end, most of us never did, but we all admired her dexterity immensely.
When visitors came to our school in the Social Hall, we knew she would be the one called to show off the progress of our work. She could melt us to tears with her rendition of "The Bridge of Sighs" or "The Snow, The Snow, The Beautiful Snow." All these things were a preparation for success in her later years. She was a pleasing speaker, having a clear voice, and she was wise in her counsel and advice to the sisters. Her home life was charming. It was always delightful to visit there, for she was a gracious and 170 hospitable hostess. In Relief Society work she had a wonderful background, having held every position LOUISE Y. ROBISON General President of Relief Society 1928-39 from ward teacher to General President. OUISE YATES ROBISON presided for eleven years with queenly grace and dignity. She too came up from the ranks, having worked in the Church auxiliaries from childhdod. In her young married life she was active in ward and stake Relief Society work, so she came to her position as General President well qualified to carry on. It is a notable fact that in all the hundred years of the organization there has ever been marked advancement, never any retrogression. Sister Robison is tall and graceful with a beautiful, animated countenance.
Courteous in manner, she wins admiration whereever she appears. She is extremely neat in appearance and in her work? her loveliness will be remembered when in her Red Cross costume she  superintended the work in the gauze rooms; and she is lovely when in her white apparel she officiates among
AMY BROWN LYMAN
General President of Relief Society 1940? the sisters in the temple. She is held in loving admiration by all her coworkers throughout the Church. MY BROWN LYMAN is a beautiful woman with a charming personality. She possesses many gifts, not the least of which is that of making friends. She has a brilliant mind and is an expert in those things which she engages to attain. Had she chosen her own career as a young girl, one would have thought she would have chosen it along dramatic or artistic lines, but fate directed otherwise and led her into the field of social work, where she fitted perfectly into the Relief Society pattern. In an entertaining way she keeps large audiences or smaller groups in rapt attention while she relates experiences, de-.
Scribes adventures, or gives instruc- (Continued on page 221)