May W. Bond Note: Reports were not received from Juab, Oahu, and San Luis Stakes Message From She Presiding Bishopric (Continued from page 159) The Relief Society has endeavored throughout the century of its existence to educate its members in the correct principles of welfare work, emphasizing the importance of a type of assistance which never demoralizes the individual because of a literal overgenerous supply of necessities, but which, rather, encourages the individual to maintain a degree of self-respect, and which helps in such a way as not to cause him undue humiliation or a feeling of futility. This great mothers' organization advocates: First, to put into every man's heart a sense of his own supreme worth in the sight of God. Respect for the individual and for his personality is a fundamental principle in the art of helping, and, far more important than all, Relief Society teachings aim to maintain the morale of an individual so that he will not lose his independence and allow others to do for him what he can do for himself. Second, any normal individual may require temporary assistance, but to keep him in a state of dependence when he could maintain himself is a crime against the individual as well as the society which supports him. It robs society of the kind of people who make a society self-sustaining. Such help causes the individual to sell his birthright for a mess of pottage. If all relief agencies, be they of a religious or governmental nature, would but follow these two fundamentals in social welfare work, there would be little need of concern for the destiny of our great nation, the element of demoralization would disappear, and men would again become strong. There is in the hearts of these "Angels of Mercy" an abiding faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and his restored Priesthood, which builds faith and courage in the hearts of those who are beset with many. Of life's problems. Aside from waging a war against poverty, this great organization of women affords its membership many wonderful opportunities in the fields of culture, literature, theology, domestic science, and recreation, literally making it possible for thousands of women who live in the remote parts of the Church to come in contact with the finer things of life. "To do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy, God" is more than an axiom with the mothers of the Church, it is an actual daily practice in their lives and a shining example of what Paul termed pure religion when he declared: "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." (James 1:27) 
 ?MARCH, 1942
Message From General Church Welfare Committee (Continued from page 161) constant attention to the many details necessary for the proper coordination of the work of the Relief Society with the Priesthood of the Church has unquestionably been largely responsible for the accomplishments of this great women's auxiliary organization in the Welfare Plan. The same can truthfully be said of the present leadership, Sister Amy Brown Lyman, Counselors Donna D. Sorensen and Marcia K. Howells, and General SecretaryTreasurer, Vera White Pohlman. Appreciatively and almost reverently, we, the General Church Welfare Committee, acknowledge your very great accomplishments in the Church Welfare Plan as you celebrate the centennial of your organization. AH She Joy Of Progression (Continued from page 181) meetinghouse may be _ provided where someone may care for the children while mothers attend the meetings. My final tribute to Relief Society is this: For many years my life has been enriched, and I have been made a partaker in the great joy that comes from learning new truths and from a sense of growth and development. My attendance has helped me to be more tolerant, more understanding of human mistakes and suffering, and to have a more intelligent desire to remove the causes of evil amongst us. It has taught me more of the meaning of love for fellow man and given me a deeper insight into the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which alone offers the way to peace and progress for all mankind. I am deeply grateful that the Lord made it possible for woman through study and effort to take her place by the side of man intellectually and spiritually in the march of eternal progression. = Relief Society General Presidents (Continued from page 170) tions. Her extensive travels and excellent education have given her a fund of interesting information, and socially she is a favorite, giving liberally of her talents in the entertainment of friends. No one can predict what awaits Mrs. Lyman in this war-torn world, but whatever comes, she will meet the need and emergency with the same courage as have her predecessors. All have been magnificent women fitted for the day of their leadership.

PAGE 159 CHURCH WELFARE COMMITTEE Standing.
Left to right: Sterling H. Nelson. J. Frank Ward, Marion G. Romney, Seated, left to right: Robert L. Judd, Vice-Chairman: Harold B. Lee, Managing Director:. Clifford E. Young, Alma Sonne, Thomas E. McKay, William E. Ryberg, Frances Cardall. Secretary; Mark Austin, Henry D. Moyle, Chairman.
Gomittee members not included in picture: C, Orval Stott, Field Representative: dley, Storehouse pee Campbell M. Brown, Stringam A, in picture: John A. Widtsoe, A. E. Bowen, ishopric, Amy Brown Lyman. To The Relief Society Organization From She General Church Welfare Committee By Henry D. Moyle, Chairman the Church-wide Welfare Plan made by the First Presidency at the April, 1936, General Conference, three definite responsibilities were placed upon the Relief Society in these words: ik the official announcement of 1.
Upon ward teachers, personal welfare committees of Priesthood quorums, and the Relief Society must rest the prime responsibility of discovering and appraising the wants of the needy. 2. The Relief Society should cooperate in the work (of accumulating sufficient food and clothes for the needy) by directing and assisting needy sisters in drying and preserving fruits and vegetables, providing clothing, bedding, etc. 3. It will be the business and the responsibility of bishops and their ward organizations and Priesthood quorums and Relief Societies to see that full relief collections are made. (Official statement of First Presidency, April 1936) If the complete story of the activities of the Relief Society during the past six years in the development of the Church Welfare Plan under that assignment from the First Presidency were to be told, it would be epoch-making. It would tell of their courageous efforts to stimulate welfare activities throughout the Church, to supply vision and foresight to leaders who faltered, and to prod the slothful to righteous effort. It would relate of kindly visits to the homes of the needy, of the encouragement given to the weary and discouraged, of counsel and instruction given the improvident, and of lonely vigils with the sick and the distressed. It would speak of the hours of ceaseless toil to supplement the work of the unemployed that there might be "meat" in the Lord's storehouses to protect the unfortunate against a day of want and privation. | The unselfish service of the ward and stake presidents of the great Relief Society organization has been as tender as that of a mother to her family and is paralleled only by the fatherly solicitude of the bishops of the Church.
Their example has inspired the entire membership with a selfless devotion to this cause of love and mercy that seeks to "wipe out all feeling of diffidence, embarrassment, or shame on the part of those receiving relief."
Never have they lost sight of the thought that the "spiritual welfare of those on relief must receive especial care and be earnestly and prayerfully fostered." In no small part due to the excellence of their teamwork with the Priesthood quorum leaders and ward bishops, a new day has dawned in the Church preparatory for the day when the world will come to our doors: and say, "Show us your way that we might walk in your path." In the early formative years of this Plan, the General Committee was associated almost daily with Sister Louise Y.
Robison and _ her counselors, Sister Amy Brown Lyman and Sister Kate M. Barker, and General Secretary-Treasurer Julia A. F. Lund.
Their untiring efforts and (Continued on page 221) PAGE 161
The Promise Of The Gospel In Helping Us To Meet Present-Day Crises. President David O. McKay N one of the most solemn occaQO sions of his entire munistry, Jesus said to his chosen Twelve: "These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation; but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world."
These significant words contain both a promise and a statement of fact. The promise: If men will hearken to His "words" they shall find peace. The fact: In the world there is tribulation.
There is also an implication that each is dependent upon the attitude and actions of men themselves. No one will deny that the world today is full of tribulation. A look at the map of the continents discloses the fact that Destruction ndes the waves of every ocean, and not a land but is or may be threatened with deadly bombardment. In the pathway of barbarous war, stealthily stalks the spectre of starvation, and lurking menacingly close, ready to add to the scourge of misery and death, are the ghastly destroyers, Disease and Pestilence. Sad though ? it is, in this world-wide holocaust the innocent must suffer even more poignantly than those whose.
Guilt merits the disaster and death they have fostered.
Tribulation means distress or suffering caused by oppression, persecution, affliction, etc., and these are PAGE 162 the result of injustice and cruelty on the part of those who at present would not only subjugate but exterminate all who refuse to subscribe to their dictation or to a particular way of life. The real source of all this lies in the hearts of men where are born and fostered the vices that breed suspicion, hatred, avarice, greed, enmity, dishonesty, treachery, _blasphemy, a denial of the existence of God and of an orderly universe. The result is that tribulation is rampant! The spirit of the antiChrist is abroad! The achievements of science in power, speed, and mechanism misapplied by gangsters and renegades are being utilized not for the progress and happiness, but for the oppression and subjugation of the peoples of the globe.
Dictatorship is on a rampage while Liberty and Freedom seek for protection and effective means of defense!
Whenever honor, virtue, and integrity are disregarded, seeds of sorrow and suffering are sown. In World War I, Belgium was invaded because of the violation of a sacred treaty considered by the perpetrators merely as "a scrap of paper." As a consequence, among other tragedies, beneath the ruins of Fort Loncin lie buried three hundred and fifty loyal soldiers who preferred death to dishonor. In the present war, a THE PROMISE OF THE GOSPEL broken promise preceded the invasion and subjugation of Czechoslovakia. As a result of treachery and jealousy over three thousand officers and men were massacred at Pearl Harbor?and so we might multiply illustrations, showing how tribulation and anguish of soul come from dishonor, deceit, ambition, suspicion, hatred, etc. Isn't it about time that man, the boasted crown of creation, began to use just a little of the God-given reason he possesses, and to seek earnestly and conscientiously for the "things" that will bring peace? The Gospel not only promises peace and contentment, but names the conditions upon which peace and contentment are predicated.
These conditions apply to the nation as well as to the individual. A Promise Regarding the Land of America The Lord has promised that "This land (America) shall be a land of liberty," provided iniquity shall not abound.: "If they shall keep his commandments they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to take away the land of their inheritance; and they shall dwell safely forever." It is interesting to note that on December 23, 1941, a member of the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States (Mr.
Smith of Washington), made the following significant comment on the necessity of the nations to live more nearly in accordance with righteous principles: "The peoples and Nations of the earth, including ourselves and our own beloved country, have disre- 163 garded and violated the basic laws of the Universe, which are spiritual and moral. In his second inaugural address, one of the most sublime utterances of modern times, which we in this solemn hour would do wisely to read, Abraham Lincoln enunciated the eternal verity that Nations as well as individuals are subject to the just judgments of Almighty God for their conduct and deeds. "This terrible war of Armageddon which engulfs the world has come upon the children of men as the inevitable effect and natural result of sin, selfishness, prejudice, greed, ignorance, idolatry, and the worship of mammon. Men collectively have failed to heed the rules of life and the laws of Nations as revealed by God the Father in the Christian Bible. "Mr. Speaker, for many years it has been evident to thinking men and women that we are sowing the wind and would ultimately reap the whirlwind.
Social injustice, industrial cruelty, racial prejudice, national selfishness, national arrogance, national pride, have brought upon all mankind the punishment and penalty which must inevitably follow as the final effect of wrongdoing and unrighteousness. The governments of the earth have failed miserably to properly appraise and evaluate the dignity and worth of human personality and the human soul. No Nation, not even our own, has practiced the virtues of true democracy ?Christian democracy.
Democracy is not merely a political system?not only majority rule by popular elections and governments by parliaments and congresses.
Democracy is far more than that.
Democracy is individual liberty?equality of op- 164 portunity and justice for the individual. The Christian Bible truly reveals the certain method and perfect plan whereby such democracy ?the Kingdom of God?shall be attained and become a reality upon earth for all mankind. "My colleagues, the Nations and peoples of earth must go back to God the Father, no matter how hard, how long, or how bloody the road. The conflict in which we are now and will be engaged during the coming years.
Shall determine the destiny and type of government for mankind for the next thousand years. By our courageous faith, by our patient sacrifice, and by our loyal obedience to God we shall build a permanent new-world social order, founded upon the enduring and eternal principles of Christian truth and justice.
This will be the grand climax of mankind's age-long endeavor and imminent struggle to conquer the chaos of evil forces and achieve and establish the divine order of the ages?peace, plenty, and prosperity for all Nations and all mankind."
Notwithstanding her many shortcomings, her weaknesses and sins, and the blunders of those who guide her destiny, in the main the United States has been as unselfish in her international dealings and as willing to help the downtrodden and oppressed, as any nation in all history. While God will inevitably punish her transgressions, He will as inevitably reward her virtues; so, in these days of tribulation, comfort and hope can. Be found in the promise of the Gospel that this nation is secure so long as it abides by the principles of righteousness and peace; and that "there shall be none to take away the land of their inheritance."  
Promise and Conditions for the Individual Conditions that will bring peace and comfort to the individual are as easily found and named as are the evils and vices that bring tribulation, and if cherished in proportion to their worth are as easily practiced. A few of the fundamentals of these Jesus referred to when he said: "These things I have spoken unto you that in me you might have peace."
Summarized they are (1) acceptance of Christ as the Way, the Truth, and the Life; (2) a love of God manifested in deeds; and (3) a love for one another. In other words, as the Savior said on another occasion: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind,.. And thy neighbour as thyself." But skeptics and pessimists say that these principles are too general, too idealistic, that mankind is too near the beasts of creation, struggling to eke out an existence, even to attempt to apply them in daily life. In reply we say, men and women have practiced them and have been happy, and have made the world better in so doing. A group did it in Jesus' day, and they have influenced millions of lives since. 'There have been millions since their day, some heralded on the pages of history and others of whom the world has never heard who, through love of God, truth, and of fellow men, have "never yielded to the pressure of circumstances," and who, though they faced persecution and even death, could say in their hearts as the Prophet Joseph Smith declared as he turned into the path that led to his martyrdom: "If my life is of no value THE PROMISE OF THE GOSPEL to my friends, it is of no value to me."
Such moral heroes ever strive and, to a great extent, succeed in adding to their "faith, virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge, temperance; and to temperance, patience; and to patience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly kindiess; and to brotherly kindness, charity. For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ." It is gratifying to know that there are hundreds of thousands of men and women today who are turning their hearts yearningly toward the Way, the Truth, and the Life. The world needs millions more whose influence will counteract the evil spread by the multi-millions who love the world, the flesh, and the anti-Christ. The Spiritual Life the True Life of Man After all, the spiritual life is the true life of man. It is what distinguishes him from the beasts of the forests. It lifts him above the physical, yet he is still susceptible to all the natural contributions that life can give him that are needful for his happiness or contributive to his advancement. Though "in the world, he is not of the world."
Jesus taught that men and women fail to live truly, and really amount to nothing unless they have spirituality. The spiritual force underlies everything, and without it nothing worth while can be accomplished. "Spiritual needs can be met only by spiritual means. All government, laws, methods, and organizations are of no value unless men and women 165 are filled with truth, righteousness, and mercy.
Material things have no power to raise the sunken spirit. Gravitation, electricity, and steam are great forces, but they are all powerless to change the motives of men and women. The wealth of a Rockefeller cannot heal a_ broken heart, and the wisdom of all our universities cannot turn into the paths of nghteousness a wayward soul. Men can be born again only through religion." The Gospel, Glad Tidings of Great Joy, is the true guide to mankind; and that man or woman is happiest and most content who lives nearest to its teachings, which are the antithesis of hatred, persecution, tyranny, domination, injustice ? things which foster tribulation, destruction, and death throughout the world. "The fruits of the spirit are love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance." Hope Even in Death Finally, a belief in the Gospel robs death of its terror, and gives assurance of eternal life for each individual. It is true that from the moment of birth we turn toward death; and Come he slow or come he fast, It is but death that comes at last. Yet, the promise of the Gospel is that "He that believeth in Christ, though he were dead, yet shall he live."
What the sun in the heavenly blue is to the earth struggling to get free from winter's grip, so is the Gospel to sorrowing souls yearning for something higher and_ better than mankind has yet found in this war-ridden world, Relief Society General Presidents Personal Reminiscences 'Annie Wells Cannon S the centennial of Relief SoA ciety approaches, I am looking backward recalling faces and figures of the iia women leadEMMA HALE SMITH General President of Relief Society 1842-44 ers of the organization.
Hundreds of them I have known, but outstanding among them are the "elect" women designated president.
Truly grateful am I that I have intimately known them all, with one exception?Emma Hale Smith.
Acquaintance with these women has been a rare experience that has enriched my life immeasurably. When I was a young girl, a choice group of "the leading sisters" occasionally met in a social way in the homes ofeach other.
They would relate incidents and experiences of the early days in the Church, bear their testimonies and sing praises to PAGE 166 the Lord. Why I was permitted to be present on these occasions I know not, save that in later years I might testify of the things I learned.
There were present women from Nauvoo, some of them charter members of the Relief Society.
They often spoke of "Sister Emma," and from them I have in mind a picture of her like an etching. MMA HALE SMITH was a tall, raceful, dark-eyed woman with an oval face and an abundance of dark hair. She was high-spirited and animated. The early years of her married life brought many disappointments and sorrows which she met with courage.
When at long last she had seeming security in her Nauvoo home, she was gracious in hospitality, generous, and sympathetic. | Under her leadership the Relief Society was well launched and started on its way to advancement.
Again came persecution, her tragic widowhood, and the exodus from Illinois in which she elected not to join. To others fell the task to carry on. BLIZA ROXEY SNOW was held > by the women of the Church as an ne She was a distinct Hebraic type, refined, intellectual, and sublimely spiritual. Her presence demanded attention and respect, a silent, undemonstrative admiration. She had dark, piercing eyes, dark hair which she wore smoothly parted under a cap of black lace and velvet rib- RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENTS bon. Her attire was always neat and of somber colors, and she was most precise in speech and manner. The picture seems austere, but she was ELIZA R. SNOW General President of Relief Society 1866-87 teally very human, and her greatest desire was the welfare and advancement of the women of the Church, to whom her word was law.
Only twice do I remember when her counsel went unheeded.
Once was in the days of retrenchment and reform when she designed a uniform called "The Deseret Costume," advising its adoption. The older sisters were not enthusiastic, and the younger ones rebelled.
After all, she was just about one hundred years ahead of the times, for the slacks and blouses worn today are very similar in style.
Another occasion was on one of her birthdays when her friends gave her a long, black silk cape with a crimson velvet lining. She insisted that it be changed for one with a less brilliant lining, but they put it around her and seated her like a queen; she 167 laughingly yielded to their persuasions. She had a rather ascetic life, officiating daily in the House of the Lord, writing prose and poetry, ZINA D. H. YOUNG General President of Relief Society 1888-1901 studying and reading, and communing in prayer?a worthy example to Latter-day Saint women. ZINA D. HUNTINGTON YOUNG, known throughout the Church as "Dear Aunt Zina," was greatly loved for her broad charity?charity in accordance with the admonition of Paul. To her, Relief Society owes its watchword, "Charity Never Faileth." It is sweet to recall her kindly ways, her motherly solicitude, her beautiful madonna-like face, her soft voice and serene dignity. She was a good neighbor and an unfailing friend. She had an understanding heart, and those who heeded her wise counsel did not make mistakes. I recall many circumstances which were tragic enough to cause anger or 168 despair in those concerned, when Aunt Zina would grasp the situation in her calm, placid manner and create a peaceful atmosphere; her influence was like oil on the troubled waters. Her gifts were many.' She was an eloquent speaker; she could stir one to tears or wonder when she related stories of her experiences. She had the gift of tongues and the interpretation thereof. On the occasions referred to when the sisters met in their home socials, I have heard Elizabeth Ann Whitney sing in this gift and Aunt Zina give the interpretation; both were aged women whose voices generally were not good, but on these occasions their voices were like the voices of young women, and the words of blessing were in beautiful verse. ATHSHEBA W. SMITH was a queenly woman, large of stature and of commanding presence. She was the last survivor of that choice group of eighteen charter members of Relief Society, and she often testified of the Prophet Joseph's teaching on the blessed occasion of the organization of the Society. One of Aunt Bathsheba's characteristics was a sympathetic understanding of young people. She had had a romantic gitlhood and even in her eighties still enjoyed reading an oldfashioned love story. I recall with a'smile an occasion when she visited one of our Retrenchment meetings.
Some of the sisters were advising the girls "not to follow the wicked fashions of the world, and to discard their frills and furbelows."
Some of the girls spoke and promised to cut the ruffles from their skirts. Then Aunt Bathsheba stood up in all her dignity and said, "I was married at  eighteen, and my husband, Brother George A. Smith, said to me, 'Don't think you are an old lady because you are married, and that you have BATHSHEBA W. SMITH General President of Relief Society 1901-10 to give up your girlish ways.
Carry your starch bag in your reticule to keep the shine off your face, and be as beautiful as you can." (These were the days before make-up.) I believe there were not many discarded ruffles, and the girls all loved her. MMELINE B. WOODWARD WELLS was delicately exquisite in face and figure, keen of mind, refined, intelligent, loyal, and tender; yet with it all she was the most courageous and valiant woman I have ever known. For nearly forty years she was secretary of the Relief Society, during which time her life was like a golden thread weaving together the activities, struggles and achievements of the Society into a beautiful tapestry. The Exponent, the wheat, the silk, the Deseret Hos- - RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENTS pital, the Woman's Store, these and the lives of the Latter-day Saint women, all were her concern. She loved the society of children and EMMELINE B. WELLS General President of Relief Society 1910-21 'young people, and her beautiful testimony of her first meeting with the Prophet Joseph Smith and the scene in the Grove when the mantle of the Prophet fell upon Brigham Young has been borne to thousands from the pulpit and by the fireside. She had passed her eightieth birthday when she was called by President Joseph F'.
Smith to the general presidency of the Relief Society, which office she held for eleven years. She was the last of that Nauvoo group, a silver link in the chain binding the old and the new. LARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS was the first of Utah's native daughters chosen for this office of General President of Relief Society,. An office which she graced with unusual poise and efficiency. As a young girl she was a bright, 169 industrious student and a_ leader among her playmates. At an early age she evidenced the qualities necessary for her later activities. She, CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS General President of Relief Society 1921-28 like a number of other young girls, was called into the Relief Society by President Brigham Young to learn to braid straw that we might be able to make our own hats.
Clarissa was one who accomplished that end, most of us never did, but we all admired her dexterity immensely.
When visitors came to our school in the Social Hall, we knew she would be the one called to show off the progress of our work. She could melt us to tears with her rendition of "The Bridge of Sighs" or "The Snow, The Snow, The Beautiful Snow." All these things were a preparation for success in her later years. She was a pleasing speaker, having a clear voice, and she was wise in her counsel and advice to the sisters. Her home life was charming. It was always delightful to visit there, for she was a gracious and 170 hospitable hostess. In Relief Society work she had a wonderful background, having held every position LOUISE Y. ROBISON General President of Relief Society 1928-39 from ward teacher to General President. OUISE YATES ROBISON presided for eleven years with queenly grace and dignity. She too came up from the ranks, having worked in the Church auxiliaries from childhdod. In her young married life she was active in ward and stake Relief Society work, so she came to her position as General President well qualified to carry on. It is a notable fact that in all the hundred years of the organization there has ever been marked advancement, never any retrogression. Sister Robison is tall and graceful with a beautiful, animated countenance.
Courteous in manner, she wins admiration whereever she appears. She is extremely neat in appearance and in her work? her loveliness will be remembered when in her Red Cross costume she  superintended the work in the gauze rooms; and she is lovely when in her white apparel she officiates among
AMY BROWN LYMAN
General President of Relief Society 1940? the sisters in the temple. She is held in loving admiration by all her coworkers throughout the Church. MY BROWN LYMAN is a beautiful woman with a charming personality. She possesses many gifts, not the least of which is that of making friends. She has a brilliant mind and is an expert in those things which she engages to attain. Had she chosen her own career as a young girl, one would have thought she would have chosen it along dramatic or artistic lines, but fate directed otherwise and led her into the field of social work, where she fitted perfectly into the Relief Society pattern. In an entertaining way she keeps large audiences or smaller groups in rapt attention while she relates experiences, de-.
Scribes adventures, or gives instruc- (Continued on page 221) The Rise Of The Women's Auxiliaries Clarissa A. Beesley Member of the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board T the commencement of any great movement there are found inspired souls who dream dreams of mighty accomplishments.
Their faith and courage never falter; step by step they go for-. Ward. We can well believe that in the early days of the Church, men, and women too, had visions of the Zion that was to be.
Those who had heard the Prophet Joseph predict that the Saints should become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains must have caught his spirit and in hope looked forward to that day. The Prophet knew that women, as well as men, would play an important part in building the structure on the foundation he had laid, and therefore we are not surprised that, under the inspiration of the Lord, he organized the Relief Society on that memorable March 17, 1842. We can imagine that with prophetic eye he looked through the years, beholding the hosts of noble women performing their mission of mercy, bringing comfort and peace | to thousands, teaching and guiding the mothers of Israel, becoming a bulwark to the Church. He and others were dreaming, too, of the needs and opportunities of youth, for there was organized in Nauvoo, during the winter of 1843, a group which might well be called the forerunner of the Mutual Improvement organizations. We read: One evening, in the latter part of January last, a few young people having assembled at the house of Heber C. Kimball, the follies of youth and the temptations to which they are exposed generally, but more especially in our city, became the topic of conversation. The company were lamenting the frivolous manner in which they spent their time, and their too frequent attendance at balls, parties, etc. Then Elder Kimball proposed that an appointment should be given out expressly for the young ladies and gentlemen, and he would give them special instruction and advice which the spirit of the Lord might suggest to him, which if followed would doubtless lead to a reformation in the conduct of his young friends. The proposition was received with delight and acted upon with alacrity.... A number of young people assembled at the house of Elder Billings where Elder Kimball addressed them for some time upon the duties of children to their parents, to society, and to their God; exhorting them to lay aside their vanity, light mindedness, pride, and frivolity, and endeavor to show themselves worthy of the religion which they had embraced. The address was so well received that it was voted, almost by acclamation, to hold a similar meeting the following week.
Decided to meet in Brother Farr's schoolroom as Elder Billings' house was too small.
Then follows an account of several meetings held in succession, at each of which Elder Kimball spoke to the young people in "that simple, plain, and affectionate manner which goes directly to the heart." At the fifth meeting, President Smith was present and appears to have been deeply moved by the number in attendance, and also by their attitude, Since he had organized the PAGE 171] 172 FIRST PRESIDENTS OF THE. CENTRAL  eo (GENERAL) BOARDS OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES Left to right: Louie B. Felt, Primary Association; Eliza R. Snow, Relief Society; Elmina S. Taylor, Y. L. M. I. A. Female Relief Society in the spring of 1842, no doubt the subject of charity and benevolence was still upon his mind, for he advised these young people to assist the needy and unfortunate. He gave them as an immediate project the case of a brother who was lame and without a home. At first the young men met alone to formulate a plan to carry out this and other relief work, but it was soon decided to ask the young ladies to join them.
They therefore organized under the name of "Young Gentlemen and Ladies Relief Society of Nauvoo." "This society met on the last Tuesday in each month at 6:00 91 p. M.
Thus the older women and the young girls were brought into active participation in the work of the Church. We have no historical account of any organization of children, but "Aunt" Emmeline B. *Times and Seasons, Vol. IV, p. 154.
Wells always insisted that there were a few children's meetings held in Nauvoo, conducted by some of the sisters. HE dream of auxiliary work, and particularly the part women were to play in it, persisted after the entrance into the valleys of the mountains, but the tasks of those beginning years in Utah were so strenuous that a period of time elapsed before efforts were made toward a realization of this dream. As early as 1853, however, a group of pioneer women, no doubt with the memory of their beloved Nauvoo Society still fresh in their minds, met in the Social Hall, Salt Lake City, to organize themselves into a unit for women's work.
Other organizations soon followed in the various wards of the city, evidently with the full encouragement of the authorities of the Church, for in 1866 we find Eliza R. Snow, that woman of THE RISE OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES inspired mind and soul, appointed by President Brigham Young to assist the bishops in organizing ward and branch Relief Societies throughout the Church, a work which she continued until the end of her life in 1887.
Then in 1869 came the retrenchment movement, in which both the older and the younger women were to be so vitally concerned. President Young had noted in his travels among the people that they were vying with each other in the matter of entertainment as well as in dress.
Often the women were kept from their meetings in order to make preparations for meals.
This troubled him and, meeting M. Isabella Horne, another pioneer woman of outstanding character, while she was visiting in Gunnison, he said to her: Sister Horne, I am going to give you a mission to begin when you return to your home?the mission of teaching retrenchment among the wives and daughters of Israel. It is not right that they should spend so much time in the preparation of their food and adornment of their bodies, and neglect their spiritual education.' Mrs.
Horne entered upon this new duty with humility, but with energy.
After counseling further with President Young, Sister Snow, and others, the ward Relief Societies were called together in her home, and the matter was presented to them. The sisters manifested much interest and informally organized themselves, thus beginning the Senior Retrenchment Association.
This was the commencement of the *History of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, p. 31. 173 uniting of a group of wards, and presaged the stake unit. But President Young had further plans.
Like the Prophet Joseph, he was deeply concerned over the welfare of the young people and could also see that they were essential to the growth of the Church. On November 28, 1869, in the old-fashioned parlor of the Lion House, he called together his family to effect an organization among his daughters which was destined to spread until it should touch the lives of all the young women of the Church:.... The husband and father sat, as was his wont, in the middle of the long room by the round table.
Beside him was his loved friend and counselor, President George A. Smith, and on the red velvet davenport, the seat reserved for visitors, sat Sister Smith. At his right hand was "Aunt" Eliza R. Snow, with her tall, slim figure neatly and plainly clad, her fine old Hebrew face with its deep-set eyes and clear-cut, regular features composed with their usual customary serenity.
Around the room were ranged the rest of the family as usual. President Young proceeded to give his reasons for calling them together:. I have long had it in my mind to organize the young ladies of Zion into an association, so that they might assist the older members of the Church, their fathers and mothers, in propagating, teaching, and practicing the principles I have been so long teaching.
There is need for the young daughters of Israel to get a living testimony of the truth.
Young men obtain this while on missions, but this way is not.
Opened to the girls.
More testimonies are obtained on the feet than on the knees. I wish our girls to obtain a knowledge of the Gospel for themselves..... We are about to organize a Retrenchment Association, which I want you all to join, and I want you to vote to retrench in your dress, in your tables, in 174 your speech, wherein you have been guilty of silly, extravagant speeches and lightmindedn?ss of thought.
Retrench in everything that is bad and worthless, and improve in everything that is good and beautiful. Not to make yourselves unhappy, but to live so that you may be truly happy in this life and the life to come.* The officers chosen were: Ella Y. Empey, president; Emily Y. Clawson, Zina Y. Williams, Maria Y. Dougall, Caroline Young, Dora Young, Phebe Young, counselors? all daughters of President Young. Now Sister Snow had a dual responsibility, not only to place the older sisters on a sure foundation, but also to assist the younger women. In a very few months both the Senior -and Junior Retrenchment Associations were going forward rapidly and successfully. In Salt Lake City there were branches in most of the wards, and others were being effected in Ogden, Cache Valley, Box Elder County, Provo, and other places, generally under the direction of this great woman. On May 28, 1870, there occurred in the Fourteenth Ward the ninth meeting of the Ladies Cooperative Retrenchment Association, the minutes of which are the first on record.
These minutes indicate the close bond of fellowship and love between these "mothers and daughters" which was to continue into the future and always: Sister* Zina D.
Young said that we had met to serve God, that she was happy to see so many of the sisters together. She stated that the Female Retrenchment Society had never been organized in public; that they had met at Sister Horne's and organized there, but it was necessary to do 'Ibid, pages 7, 9, 10.  so in public. She then presented Mrs. Mary Isabella Horne as presidentess of the Ladies' Co-operative Retrenchment Association.
Unanimously accepted.. Sister Eliza R.
Snow then said she wished to make a few remarks with regard to the Young Ladies' department. It was President Young's suggestion, because he thought they would have more influence, as the reform was to consist not only in table retrenchment, but in the trimmings, and trailing dresses, also short ones. [She hoped] that the sisters, when they begin to retrench in long dresses, might not shorten them so that modesty blushes.... If the angels were to come in our midst, how would they be able to distinguish us from the Gentiles?' What a busy decade that must have been from 1870 to 1880! As new wards and stakes came into existence, so also the women's groups multiplied. In 1872, the first woman's magazine of "Mormondom" came into existence?The Woman's Exponent, under the patronage of Brigham Young, Eliza R. Snow, and others.
This paper although not owned and controlled by the Relief Society, was the accredited organ of the Society. Lula Greene Richards was its first editor, serving for a period of five years, during the last two years of which she was assisted by Emmeline B. Wells, who succeeded her as editor.
These two young women became well known and loved among the Saints, and like Sister Eliza R. Snow, both of these editors possessed the sweet gift of poetry.
With his interest in youth ever fresh and intense, President Young saw fit to organize in 1875 the young men of Zion, giving Junius F.
Wells the important task of supervision. He named this organization "Young 'Ibid, p. 33, 34- THE RISE OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES Men's Mutual Improvement Association."
This influenced the young women, and they at once desired a similar name, so that by 1877 we have the "Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association." And with this change, the word "Retrenchment" seems to fade from the picture in both the younger and older groups, Relief Society coming again into its own. ANP now a new opportunity for women was dawning in the field where, after all, they are at their best ?that of working with little children.
There had been some faint beginnings along the line of organized work with children before this. ?perhaps at Nauvoo, and also among the pioneers. "Aunt Louisa's (Wells) Manner Meeting" had captured some boisterous youngsters and taught them lessons in courtesy and gentleness and the cardinal virtues of honesty and_ truthfulness.
Here and there, weekday groups are believed to have sprung up tempotarily. But in 1878, another great woman came into the foreground with her inspired thought of organizing an association for little folks. It was in March, 1878, that Mrs. Aurelia Spencer Rogers, of Farmington, Utah, thought of an organization for little boys where they could be taught '"'everything good and how to behave." She noticed that many of them were allowed to be out on the streets at night and were learning things that little boys should never learn.
Some of them were growing up to be "hoodlums" rather than Latter-day Saints and gentlemen.* She consulted Sister Snow, who ~ conferred with the leaders of the ?The Children's Friend, April, 1940, p. 166. 175
Church, and the result was that Bishop Hess of Farmington, where Sister Rogers resided, gave her permission to preside over an organization for children.
Immediately the thought came to her that girls should be included, especially to participate in the singing, so she again sought Sister Snow's advice by letter. The answer from Sister Snow was written from Salt Lake City, August 4, 1878. It said, "My dear Sister Rogers: The spirit and contents of your letter pleased me much. I feel assured that the inspiration of heaven is directing you, and that a great and very important movement is being inaugurated for the future of Zion.... You are right?we must have the girls as well as the boys?they must be trained together.' It was Sister Snow who named this newest of organizations over which women were to preside?The Primary; and it was she who later outlined the program which should bless the multitudes of Zion's boys and girls. Thus, by the close of the 70's, the dream of women's work in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was well on its way to glorious fulfilment. IGHTEEN-EIGHTY! The Jubilee year of the Church and the birth of a new epoch in the auxiliaries! Eliza R. Snow, who up to this time had guided the work of all three branches of the women's work?for the older women, the young girls, and the children?was now to relinquish part of her heavy responsibility. She was asked by President John Taylor to call together all of the women for a "Sisters' Conference" as he desired to "Ibid, p. 167. 176 separate the work, at least in part, and to place it under three central (general) boards. Two meetings were held, one in the Tabernacle and one in the Assembly Hall. In the first meeting the Primary Board and the Relief Society Board were organized in the order named. Louie B.
Felt was made president over the Primary Association, and Eliza R.
Snow was made president of all the Relief Societies. In the afternoon Elmina S.
Taylor was selected to preside over the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association.
From this eventful hour the two new presidents took their place among the honored Latter-day Saint women leaders. The full story of the work of those early General Board members would make interesting reading. In buggies and whitetops they traveled, for days and sometimes for weeks at a time, throughout the stakes and wards, establishing local organizations, strengthening those already begun, and putting into operation new plans as they were born.
There were programs to formulate, "guides" to prepare containing  texts for study, correspondence to carry on, and the many other details incident to the work of these new organizations.
Other magazines were to be founded, one for each of these groups; there were departments to be organized with graded courses of study, and new assignments to be fulfilled as they were received from time to time from the presiding Priesthood. A new day in the women's auxiliaries had arrived?a new day of intensified effort, expansion, progress. NE hundred years have passed since the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key for women. Eliza R.
Snow and those other choice spirits have gone to their rest, leaving behind a rich legacy. The dream is in part fulfilled, but new visions beckon onward. The first of these three groups proudly commemorates its centennial anniversary, while we of the other two organizations pay our tribute of love and honor.
United in a great purpose, whether serving the mothers, the youth, or the children, the womanhood 6f the Church must ever move forward to its high destiny. ~~ MORNING PRAYER Norma Wrathall ?
Today is here! The sun's cascade, new pearled, Splashes the early sky with sparkling hues.
Above the sounds of waking birds, the world Rouses to life, gives me this day to use. Now I make haste to strive with eager hand? Oh, let me know the way to work with skill, Not err in sin, nor waste, but understand, So, when these hours have gone, their pattern will Reflect against the glowing evening sky The same bright colors that the morning knew; Fulfillment of the promise made, if I Keep willing hands and heart steadfast and true. The Joy Of Progression What Relief Society Means To Me Leah D. Widtsoe WO forces are ever present in the mortal world. One leads men toward their Father in Heaven; the other leads downward toward Satan who is the author of darkness.
Nothing in this world is static; every living thing is either growing or retrogressing.
Human beings are either becoming more intelligent, are improving their lives day by day, or they are becoming less active, less willing to learn and thus less useful. It is impossible for one to stand still intellectually or spiritually or to always be content with things as they are. If we are not climbing upward, growing, learning, improving ourselves, we are bound to be on the downward track. If we can grasp this great truth and understand its deep significance we have learned one of the greatest lessons of life.
There is no compromise with truth; no halfway measures will insure progress. It is wise to plan that life shall be so lived from day to day that one is increasingly just a little nearer the source of light and truth instead of farther away. The Right of Choice The blessed privilege enjoyed by all God's children is that each has, or should have, the inalienable right of free agency, the power of choice, the right to use his will to do right or wrong, to obey or to disobey law. However, there are so many tempting lanes to follow, so many distractions along the way, that unless one Adam. Has a guide one is apt to get lost or to err in judgment, at times unintentionally.
That all may be guided in this upward reaching toward the light is the purpose of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
Fortunately the Gospel as a guide to a happy, useful, and successful life is within the understanding and reach of every son and daughter of It is designed for the use and uplift of all men, women, and children, and its blessings cannot be monopolized by any race, or class, or age group. In its scope, provision is made for the development and comfort of every soul?man, woman, and child.
There is work for each to do in climbing upward for his own soul advancement as well as to assist in the upward climb of others. The Relief Society for All Women For this purpose the Priesthood was restored and the different auxiliaries in the Church were organized. The Priesthood is held by all righteous men in the Church.
Through the organization of the Relief Society, provision was made that all the women of the Church should have the opportunity for growth and uplift by the use of their own faculties according to their faith and works.
Unquestionably the Prophet was inspired to organize the womanhood of the Church so that they too might have the opportunity to develop their innate gifts, to study and achieve a better understanding of the Gospel with its power to lift PAGE 177 178 all God's children. It is a blessed thing to know that our Father in Heaven loves his daughters quite as much as He does His sons and has provided for their welfare and progTess. The sisters who were active in this first organization, just one hundred years ago, were united in their desire to assist in caring for the refugees from the country roundabout whose homes had been destroyed by their enemies and who kept pouring into Nauvoo for protection. The Nauvoo sisters shared their homes, and used all their spare time in sewing for the men who were working on the Nauvoo Temple as well as for anyone in their midst who might be in need.
When the suggestion was made that they organize themselves into a Society for helping the poor and unfortunate, they went to the Prophet for his advice on the drafting of their constitution. He replied to them: "This is not what you want.
Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord. But He has something better for them than a written constitution.
Invite them all to meet me and a few of the brethren?and I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood." The leaders of the Church met with the sisters, and the Relief Society was organized. The brethren suggested that the name "Benevolent Society" would be expressive of the aims of the Society, but the women preferred the name "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." The women had their way, and thus our Relief Society was born and christened. The Prophet met with the sisters many times, and as a result of his inspirational guidance and their un  tiring efforts, the aims and policies of the new Society were gradually formulated and crystallized. At. A Relief Society meeting held on June 9, 1842, the Prophet said: "The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to telieve the poor, but to save souls."
What a glorious mission for the womanhood of Christ's Church!
This had been considered the special prerogative of men and ministers; but a modern Prophet under inspiration had the vision of the mothers of the race extending their upbuilding powers far beyond the limited circles of the individual homes. The scope of the Society has gradually developed until it may be said to rest on a stable, four-square foundation: 1. It provides for the all-round physical and mental development of the individual woman; and by lifting her, the home and family are benefitted. A definite educational program is a vital part of Relief Society activity. 2. The Society gives the opportunity for every woman to benefit others outside her home, as well -as herself and family. To care for one's own advancement only would be but a selfish aim; but through study and responsibility every woman is better prepared to care for self and others positively, that sickness, delinquency, and misfortune may be measurably prevented. It is so much better to use our powers to prevent sickness and sin than to devise means of relief or of cure.
This is and should always be our greatest aim. 3. The Society helps to provide for those in distress; for in spite of the greatest care and precaution, misfortune may and does at times overtake everyone. Therefore, the Society is a great blessing to all members in time of trouble or when in need of intelligent help for causes beyond control. 4.
Possibly of greatest importance is the opportunity the membership has to study and apply the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that their spiritual natures may be THE JOY OF PROGRESSION developed and the Gospel be more completely understood and lived by them day by day.
Thus they are preparing themselves to be better mothers, wives, and companions of those who hold the holy Priesthood of God. In brief these aims may be thus stated: (1) self improvement; (2) uplift of others and prevention of evil; (3) relief of distress or misfortune; (4) spiritual growth and development for all. 'Thus it may be seen that the scope of the Society is much.
Broader than its name indicates. Why Attend Relief Society?
Every woman needs some activity outside her home. Her life is so confining, so engrossed with hard though uplifting work and petty details, that were she to have no outside interests it would be easy for her to become stale and unprogressive in her outlook on life. If her outside activities are merely social, she is apt to become shallow and to deteriorate mentally as well as spiritually. The Relief Society offers just the stimulus needed by every woman for constant self-improvement, as well as for the upbuilding of family, home, and community. So, if one were to ask me tersely, "What does the Relief Society mean to you, and how has it blessed your life?" I should have to answer thus: First, it gives me the chance to be a social human being.
Through it I am able to meet congenial women who have the same ideals that I have and who are striving to grow and improve themselves as I am.
Even though some of them may not be congenial at first, I learn to appreciate them and like them better as I know them better.
They are of my time, and most of them have problems to meet that are similar to mine. So I enjoy knowing these 179 women, and from a social point of view alone my time is well spent in going to Relief Society.. I am aware _that we may not all have the same conditions financially, nor have we had the same chances for education, travel, and other advantages, yet we are all working for the same goal? improvement for self and others? and I cherish the opportunity of being one with these women and mingling with them weekly throughout most of the year. Second, I am able to learn something definite every time I go to my Relief Society meeting. 'The programs are so arranged that I receive some benefit every time I attend. I am also often entertained and greatly interested by the varied activities.
Members are encouraged to study at home the lesson that is to be given the next week. If I am wise, I do study during the weekh? if only for a few moments at a time ?the coming lesson, for thereby I learn more and enjoy the lesson hour much more as well as being more highly profited thereby. Third, the program in recent years has given much help for improving.
Family relations as well as stimulating a greater interest in social and mental health and well-being.
Anything that will help me to bea better and healthier person is worth while; and even though I am a grandmother and my family is reared, yet I learn many things that I am glad to pass on to my daughters and friends.
Women of all ages constitute the membership of Relief Society, and improvement is there for all. Fourth, the Relief Society has.
Helped me greatly to cultivate the few gifts that have been given me 180 and to learn how to become selfreliant. I realize keenly my limitations, yet the Society has encouraged me, as it does every member, to try - when asked and to do my best. I have learned to avoid criticising ? others as I hope others will refrain from doing when my faults become too evident. In other words, the Society helps women to think, speak, and act for themselves?to be independent human beings, not just echoes of their "Lords and Masters" or mere passive members of society. By improving our minds and all our opportunities, we become much better and wiser companions for our husbands and children, or for our friends and dear ones should we be unmarried. Fifth, the Society stimulates and helps to satisfy my craving for the finer things of life. It is easy for a busy mother to become so absorbed in the daily grind that there is no time for anything but the newspapers?and often they are neglected.
Good literature should be the companion of everyone who desires to grow, and the Relief Society program helps all to keep up an acquaintance with the best in literature. The Relief Society Magazine is always a good companion for me, and when I read it faithfully I am always built up and feel that I can carry on, no matter what life may bring me.
Another joy that the Relief Society has brought me is the exquisite pleasure of listening to the Singing Mothers of modern Zion. It has been my lot to travel widely and visit many of the stakes of Zion.
Always when I see the groups of whiteclad women, ready and able to sing the songs of Zion as well as some of  the lovely classic music of the masters, my heart is thrilled beyond measure; for I know that singing mothers are always better mothers. If mothers sing, children will sing also. I love the name "Singing Mothers," for every mother should sing to her babies in her home, and especially should she sing in her heart for the great gift of motherhood.
Every woman is a mother at heart, and whether or not she has been blessed with children, she may sing with the rest of us. The beautiful music given by these singing groups is always uplifting. I have heard as fine music and as well rendered a program from them as from any chorus I have ever heard and much better than some I have heard.
Even though some of their renditions may at times fall short of standard, yet I know their very attempts to sing together make them better women. 'Those who practice good music are far less prone to gossip and backbite than they would be were they not engaged in such uplifting work. If the mothers of Zion cultivate good musical taste and practice what they learn we may be sure that we shall all be better people. May the voices of the Singing Mothers of Zion never be stilled, and may their efforts increase until the earth shall be filled with song instead of hatred and war! Sixth, and of greatest benefit to me, is the opportunity the Society affords me to study my religion, to become more and more conversant with the great truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. If the Gospel was given in the beginning and restored in our day for the benefit of every individual on earth, then it is just as THE JOY OF PROGRESSION necessary for women to study and practice its precepts as it is for men. Indeed, their need may be greater, for as the mothers of men it is their duty to guide and direct their families during their most formative years. The Priesthood quorums meet weekly and study different phases of Gospel principles.
Because of the Relief Society, the women may also meet weekly and have the chance to study and learn increasingly more and more of restored truth.
Were it not for the Society I might not have my privilege of definite, consecutive study of Gospel principles. It is often difficult and sometimes well-nigh impossible for women to leave home Sunday morning to attend Sunday School, or Tuesday evening to attend Mutual; but by planning wisely, most women may arrange to leave for an hour or two one afternoon a week to attend the Relief Society meeting.
This is my chance to become conversant with the principles of the Gospel, to develop the spiritual side of my nature, and to get nearer to my Father in Heaven while I learn more of His hand-dealings with His children. Of course, I could and do study the Bible and other Church books at home, and while I receive much benefit therefrom, it is not as stimulating as when discussion is made possible by the many points of view expressed by the members of the Society.
Intelligent group study is often more beneficial than individual effort, though the latter is also essential to progress. The study of theology always lifts me to a higher conception of life and gives me added strength to carry on my daily duties. It also makes me a 181 more interesting companion for my husband and a much wiser guide and friend for my children and _ their friends. If my husband were indifferent to the Gospel or even were he not a member of the Church at all, it would be all the more important for me to be faithful in my attendance at Relief Society that my own and my family's lives might be enriched thereby. A Wealth of Benefits One of the greatest attractions of Relief Society to me is its beautiful democracy. Any good woman may become a member if she so desires? there is nothing "exclusive" or "high-brow" about our Society. All the benefits here enumerated may be possessed by any woman who will join, and all are invited to participate in some phase of the varied activities.
This is as it should be in  
Each week end provisions from home were sent to us across Provo Bench. The school was then located in the old 

Z. C. M. I.
Warehouse near the railroad depot, where it had been housed since the fire had destroyed its original home, Lewis Hall, on Center Street. It occupied the whole second floor of the warehouse, with several offices and the laboratory on the ground floor. To me the school was a surprise, a marvel, and a delight. It did not matter that the building was a plain ordinary warehouse, nor that the desks were long, crude, table affairs with chairs of the kitchen variety. It was the spirit and atmosphere of the institution which were so fascinating and satisfying. I had heard a great deal from my brothers and sisters and other former students about how fine the school was, how the spirit of the Gospel permeated every quarter, and how the students regarded religion as the most important subject in the whole curriculum. I had anticipated much, but the reality exceeded my expectations, and I found that the wonders PAGE 182 of the school had not half been told.
That year seemed to me to be the happiest of my life, and the world such a fascinating place in which to live. It was during this period that I met and fell in love with my future husband, Richard R. Lyman, so why shouldn't it be the happiest time of my life? As I think of it now, the school was really as remarkable as I then thought it was, for it featured those things which are most important in this life and in the life to come.
There were a number of excellent teachers, but the most important, best loved and honored was, of course, Dr. Karl G. Maeser, who stood at the head and was really the soul of the institution.
Tall and thin, dressed in a Prince Albert coat, he personified the idea of the old professor, and ruled the school like a general. 'Trained for his work in Old-World education centers, he was an educator of the first rank, a fine scholar, and a finished teacher. His enthusiasm and earnestness, his unwavering faith and _ spirituality, his fine character, and his daily life were a constant inspiration to his students and stimulated them to greater effort and accomplishment than they had thought possible. He loved the calling of a teacher and often said he hoped he would be able to teach in heaven. I was a member of his Theology class, in connection with which we had a IN RETROSPECT AMY BROWN, AGE 18 monthly testimony meeting, and I was also a member of his classes in History of Education, Theory and Practice of Teaching and, occasionally, Elocution, when he substituted so ably for the teacher of that subject.
Next to my own parents, Brother Maeser influenced my life. Our daily devotional exercises brought us all together each morning when there would be singing and prayer, a message from Brother Maeser or one of his associates, and special instructions, if there were any to give. A quotation from an address I gave at the B. Y. U.
Alumni banquet in June, 1941, further describes school life in 1888: "School life as I knew it under Brother Maeser at the old B. Y. A.
When school was held at the warehouse was. Interesting, profitable, happy, satisfying, and wholesome. 183 As I look back, I recall many fine extra-curricular features. For example, on Sunday morning at 10 o'clock there was a special meeting (or chapel service it might be called) in the school assembly hall for students. It was known as the Missionary meeting.
Impromptu speaking was encouraged, and anyone who had the desire might address the assembly.
Students ambitious to become public speakers, sometimes, unbeknown to their class mates, prepared these so-called impromptu speeches.
Returned missionaries also enjoyed the privilege of making reports here.
These meetings were always well attended. "Then there was the Domestic Department established to look after students during out-of-school hours. In each boarding place, one student was appointed to act as monitor. It was his duty to look after the rest and to report regularly in Domestic meeting, held monthly, as to how things were going, and whether school rules were being observed.
Students were not expected to be out at night, even until 7 o'clock, without special written permission from Brother Maeser himself.
Nine o'clock was considered a late hour.
These permission notes were signed ?Msr. "For recreation we had Polysophical Society which held forth every Friday night, when excellent literary and musical programs were given by the best talent available in the school. And once in five weeks there was a student dance in the school assembly hall which began at 8 o'clock and closed promptly at 12 o'clock. We were so happy in those dances we did not notice the poor, splintered floor. We were not ex- 184 pected to frequent public dances. Nor did we. I never heard anyone complain, however, about school re- | strictions.
Everybody seemed satisfied and happy." I was graduated from the Normal School in June, 1890, and was selected, with several others, to make a short speech at commencement exercises. It was customary then for a number of students to appear on the commencement program.
Graduating with me in the class of 1890 were two of the choicest spirits and most faithful and devoted friends I have ever known, and two of the finest and ablest persons this state and Church has produced ? they were Prof. Alice Louise Reynolds and Dr. George W. Middleton. We studied together, and together we prepared for our final examinations.
This close friendship with these two precious souls covered a period of fifty-two years and ended only with their recent deaths, which occurred less than one year apart. Miss Reynolds was like a sister to me. My home was her home. She came and went as she pleased and was always welcome.
During two summers she joined us in study ?one summer at the University of Chicago and one summer at Cornell University.
While my husband was presiding over the European Mission she spent the summer with us in London, where we visited many historic and literary shrines together. Dr. Middleton, so greatly beloved by every member of our family, came to our home often, on friendly as well as professional calls. He always called on Christmas morning, and since his death Christmas morning is for us no longer the same.  A few weeks after my graduation, I was engaged by Brother Maeser to go back to the "Y" and take charge of what was then known as the "Primary Department," and under his supervision and direction, in the fall of 1890 I began my work as a teacher, at a salary of $40 per month ? one-third cash and twothirds tithing script. In 1891, the B. Y. A. Was moved from its temporary home in the 

Z. C. M. I.
Warehouse to its new home on the new campus, in the northern part of the city, now known as the lower campus. The new building, college hall, was considered a real palace by the students.
Here we had central heat, a telephone, and other conveniences. I taught in the Training School of the institution for four years and had the privilege during that time of working under President Benjamin Cluff, Jr., who was a constant inspiration to both his teachers and students, and Prof. George H. Brimhall, that dynamic and forceful teacher and builder of character, who was in direct charge of the Training School. In addition to my work in the Training School, I taught, at different periods, needle work, physical education, and during an emer- - gency I served as matron of the school. I used to feel at times that teaching in a Church school had its handicaps, especially for young women who loved fun, parties, and dancing as I did. The teachers were supposed to be very circumspect and to set a good example, which was rather hard on the younger faculty members.
Party dresses with low necklines and short sleeves were not very common and were taboo for us. "THE FACULTY OF B. Y. A., 1890?
Front row, left to right: Mary Lyman (Gowans), Otillie Maeser (Phelps), Amy Brown (Lyman).
Center row, left to right: Ephraim E. Gowans, Prof. Benjamin Cluff, Jr., Dr. Karl G. Maeser, Prof. Joseph B. Keeler, Emil Maeser.
Back row, left to right: Prof. George H. Brimhall, Prof. N. L. Nelson, Prof. E. B. Isgreen, Hyrum Anderson. One great disappointment that I remember distinctly was when I was advised not to take part in a grand masquerade ball given in the Provo Theater by the society folk of the town. It was really the ball of the season, and all of my girl friends dressed and masked for the occasion. I felt quite rebellious at being ad- 'vised. Not to-take part and argued the point with Brother Maeser. I told him I had been held down all my life, and that I was tired of being a bishop's daughter and a Church school teacher. [ think I even shed a few tears about it. But I finally gave in, and sat in the front' row of the dress circle?we called it baldheaded row?with the older people, where I watched my friends enjoy all the fun that accompanied those old masquerade balls. For several years I boarded in the Maeser home, where I was treated as a daughter of the house. It was a home of order, system, regularity, 186 -and immaculate cleanliness, as well as a home of rare culture and refinement. Sister Anna Meith Maeser, daughter of an educator, wife of an educator, born and reared in a home of luxury and refinement in the great art center, Dresden, Germany, was an expert and frugal housekeeper and homemaker, and looked constantly to the welfare and comfort of her distinguished husband and his household.
Because of her understanding and appreciation of the rare abilities of her husband, and of the importance of his work and mission as a great teacher and leader, and because she realized his great need for proper care and consideration in his strenuous work, she always subordinated herself and her personal interests to him and his work. She felt that first things should come first. She was innately modest and unassuming, and willing to remain in the background. Her abilities and qualifications were therefore not generally known or fully appreciated. Brother Maeser never had one moment's concern about how the income could best be spent, about the condition of his home either inside or outside, or about his personal effects and clothing. His always immaculate and dignified appearance in his well-pressed trousers and Prince Albert coat was due in no small measure to the attention and care of his practical and devoted wife.
While visiting Germany in 1938, we were thrilled when President and Sister A. C.
Rees informed us that our tour through the East German Mission would include visiting branches in and about Dresden. We had hoped that we might be able to  visit this famous city with its great art gallery, reputed to be one of the best three in the world, where there are many famous original paintings, including Raphael's "Sistine Madonna" and Hoffman's "Head of Christ." We were also interested in the city because it was the birthplace and former home of Sister Maeser who had been a second mother to me. She had often told me of her father's work there as director of the Budich Institute, a noted Lutheran college where she herself was educated, of her lovely childhood home of luxury and comfort, and of her ? marriage in a fashionable Lutheran church to her sweetheart from Meisen, who was her father's chief assistant and vice-director of the Institute. We were also overjoyed to find that a short side trip from Dresden was planned to visit the elders in Meisen, which was the birthplace of our beloved Brother Maeser. We went to the house where he was born and saw the sacred little slant-ceilinged upstairs bedroom where he first saw light. As we stood there we seemed to hear again the ringing testimony of our precious teacher, which had been his greatest source of comfort and an inspiration to his students. We signed our names in a book which had been placed there by Dr. James E. Talmage. | How appropriate for Doctor Talmage, the brilliant student and faithful follower of Brother Maeser, to seek out the birthplace of this great teacher and have a tablet placed upon it! We also went to the china factory where Brother Maeser's father, who was an artist, painted china, and where the chair in which he sat as he painted is still preserved. We found they were still using the identi- IN RETROSPECT cal rose pattern which he used so long ago. The cups and saucers and other pieces looked exactly like those the Maeser family brought to Utah and treasured so highly, and which I remember so well. I was deeply touched on this day.
After these visits I marveled more than ever at the courage and bravery exhibited by Brother and Sister Maeser in giving up so much for the Gospel, in facing so bravely the hardships and poverty of their early days in Utah.
Through all their trials and tribulations they never faltered in their loyalty to the Church. One of my most prized possessions today is a gift book from Brother Maeser?a beautifully-bound book? Scott's Lady of the Lake, presented to me on my nineteenth birthday. On the flyleaf are to be found these words: "Feb. 7, 1891. To Miss Amy Brown, in kind remembrance of her teacher and friend. Dr. Karl G. Maeser."
Teaching children is always interesting whether in a private or public school.
From the B. Y. A., I came to the schools of Salt Lake City, where under that able educator and gentleman, Dr. J. F. Millspaugh, who was then superintendent, I worked at a salary of $100 per month, which seemed a fortune to me. Professor William M.
Stewart had offered me a position in the Training School at the University of Utah, but I felt that I had served my time in teacher-training work. The Salt Lake City schools were then operating under a board of education which was anti-Mormon, and which a few years previously had reorganized the school system and eliminated practically all Latter-day Saint teachers, and imported teach- 187 ers from the outside to take their places. When I began teaching here in 1894, there were only a few Latterday Saint teachers in the entire city.
What a blessing that much of the prejudice against the Mormons has been overcome! I heard Anna Garlin Spencer, a brilliant American woman, say in an address that prejudice should be classed with other destructive forces such as war, poverty, and disease. It was always a mystery to me why some people who were so antagonistic to the Mormons chose to live among them. While I was still at the B. Y. U., the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated, April 6, 1893.
Upon the invitation of President Francis. M. Lyman, I accompanied him and his daughter, Mrs. William H. King, to the sessions on the first day. It was one of the most thrilling spiritual experiences of my life. As I sat there during those impressive services I thought, as no doubt did many others, of that other April 6, 1853, forty years before, when the cornerstones of the great edifice were laid, and of the hardships and struggles of the people during these many years in their efforts to carry on the work; also of the long years of steady and continued effort which had been put forth to produce this sacred and magnificent temple. The dedicatory prayer was offered by President Wilford Woodruff, then 86 years of age. As he stood there before the people with hair and beard as white as snow, the essence of purity, gentleness, and faithfulness, he reminded me of the prophets of old. In later years as I became intimately acquainted with President Woodruff, my appreciation and admiration of this gentle 188 and righteous man were unbounded.
Since that time I have visited all of the temples erected by the Church except the Nauvoo Temple, and I have visited a number of times the spot upon which it stood. I also had the privilege of attending the dedicatory services of the Canadian Temple, August 26, 1923, and the Arizona Temple, October 23, 1927, which were dedicated by our beloved prophet and leader, President Heber J. Grant, who in his ringing voice thrilled his hearers with his glorious prayer and with the earnestness of his testimony. HE summer of 1895 was a redletter period for me, for it was then I took my first long trip from home?a trip which made such a great impression upon me that I always enjoy recalling it.
Traveling about the country in those days before the invention of the automobile was much less common _ than it is today. The tour included Chicago, Ann Arbor?where I went to attend the graduation exercises of my fianc? at the University of Michigan?New York, Boston, and Washington. Returning, I visited my father's people in Illinois. I had made great preparation for the trip by replenishing and refurbishing my wardrobe. I remember especially the beautiful, cream silk formal dress trimmed with white passementerie, which I wore to the grand senior ball at Michigan University. I traveled to Ann Arbor with President Francis M. Lyman, my future father-in-law, one of the most genial and lovable personalities I have ever known, and an ideal traveling companion.
While in  college town, I was the guest of my brother, James L. Brown, later Professor of Education at the B. Y. U., and his interesting family. The commencement exercises at this great University and the social functions connected therewith were full of interest and excitement for me. Richard R.
Lyman was president of his class, and we were shown many courtesies and were entertained lavishly by his friends. It was said of him at that time that he was the most popular student on the campus. He had been president of his class in his sophomore year, and was elected president again in his senior year.
This is the highest college honor the students can confer upon a classmate. And as if that honor from his classmates were not enough, twenty-five years ago he was elected president of the class (1895) for life. He made friends largely because he could not help it. He likes people and believes that on the whole the human race is pretty good. I was rather startled at the attention he received from the charming Michigan coeds.
This set me to thinking. I had the honor at this time of being presented to President James B.
Angel of the University, who gave us an unhurried and extended interview. President Angel was one of the greatest college presidents of his day. He was very courteous and kind and was especially interested in President Francis M. Lyman?his background and his people. Of him President Angel made sympathetic inquiry about a number of former Utah students who had attended Michigan University and had made notable records there among them were George Sutherland, William IN RETROSPECT H. King, James H. Moyle, and Benjamin Cluff, Jr.
There was great warmth in his greeting and charm in his manner. I saw New York with a group of 
Z. C. M. I. Buyers and members of their families. It would be difficult to explain how thrilling New York was to the women members of the party, this being their first visit to the great metropolis. Born and reared as I had been in a small village, this was especially the case with me. The elevated railroad and the subway were equally mysterious, and the theaters and business districts marvelous. Many courtesies were extended to the party by the various business houses with which