[Vol29 | March 1942 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Message From General Church Welfare Committee]
Message From General Church Welfare Committee (Continued from page 161) constant attention to the many details necessary for the proper coordination of the work of the Relief Society with the Priesthood of the Church has unquestionably been largely responsible for the accomplishments of this great women's auxiliary organization in the Welfare Plan. The same can truthfully be said of the present leadership, Sister Amy Brown Lyman, Counselors Donna D. Sorensen and Marcia K. Howells, and General SecretaryTreasurer, Vera White Pohlman. Appreciatively and almost reverently, we, the General Church Welfare Committee, acknowledge your very great accomplishments in the Church Welfare Plan as you celebrate the centennial of your organization. AH She Joy Of Progression (Continued from page 181) meetinghouse may be _ provided where someone may care for the children while mothers attend the meetings. My final tribute to Relief Society is this: For many years my life has been enriched, and I have been made a partaker in the great joy that comes from learning new truths and from a sense of growth and development. My attendance has helped me to be more tolerant, more understanding of human mistakes and suffering, and to have a more intelligent desire to remove the causes of evil amongst us. It has taught me more of the meaning of love for fellow man and given me a deeper insight into the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which alone offers the way to peace and progress for all mankind. I am deeply grateful that the Lord made it possible for woman through study and effort to take her place by the side of man intellectually and spiritually in the march of eternal progression. = Relief Society General Presidents (Continued from page 170) tions. Her extensive travels and excellent education have given her a fund of interesting information, and socially she is a favorite, giving liberally of her talents in the entertainment of friends. No one can predict what awaits Mrs. Lyman in this war-torn world, but whatever comes, she will meet the need and emergency with the same courage as have her predecessors. All have been magnificent women fitted for the day of their leadership.

PAGE 159 CHURCH WELFARE COMMITTEE Standing.
Left to right: Sterling H. Nelson. J. Frank Ward, Marion G. Romney, Seated, left to right: Robert L. Judd, Vice-Chairman: Harold B. Lee, Managing Director:. Clifford E. Young, Alma Sonne, Thomas E. McKay, William E. Ryberg, Frances Cardall. Secretary; Mark Austin, Henry D. Moyle, Chairman.
Gomittee members not included in picture: C, Orval Stott, Field Representative: dley, Storehouse pee Campbell M. Brown, Stringam A, in picture: John A. Widtsoe, A. E. Bowen, ishopric, Amy Brown Lyman. To The Relief Society Organization From She General Church Welfare Committee By Henry D. Moyle, Chairman the Church-wide Welfare Plan made by the First Presidency at the April, 1936, General Conference, three definite responsibilities were placed upon the Relief Society in these words: ik the official announcement of 1.
Upon ward teachers, personal welfare committees of Priesthood quorums, and the Relief Society must rest the prime responsibility of discovering and appraising the wants of the needy. 2. The Relief Society should cooperate in the work (of accumulating sufficient food and clothes for the needy) by directing and assisting needy sisters in drying and preserving fruits and vegetables, providing clothing, bedding, etc. 3. It will be the business and the responsibility of bishops and their ward organizations and Priesthood quorums and Relief Societies to see that full relief collections are made. (Official statement of First Presidency, April 1936) If the complete story of the activities of the Relief Society during the past six years in the development of the Church Welfare Plan under that assignment from the First Presidency were to be told, it would be epoch-making. It would tell of their courageous efforts to stimulate welfare activities throughout the Church, to supply vision and foresight to leaders who faltered, and to prod the slothful to righteous effort. It would relate of kindly visits to the homes of the needy, of the encouragement given to the weary and discouraged, of counsel and instruction given the improvident, and of lonely vigils with the sick and the distressed. It would speak of the hours of ceaseless toil to supplement the work of the unemployed that there might be "meat" in the Lord's storehouses to protect the unfortunate against a day of want and privation. | The unselfish service of the ward and stake presidents of the great Relief Society organization has been as tender as that of a mother to her family and is paralleled only by the fatherly solicitude of the bishops of the Church.
Their example has inspired the entire membership with a selfless devotion to this cause of love and mercy that seeks to "wipe out all feeling of diffidence, embarrassment, or shame on the part of those receiving relief."
Never have they lost sight of the thought that the "spiritual welfare of those on relief must receive especial care and be earnestly and prayerfully fostered." In no small part due to the excellence of their teamwork with the Priesthood quorum leaders and ward bishops, a new day has dawned in the Church preparatory for the day when the world will come to our doors: and say, "Show us your way that we might walk in your path." In the early formative years of this Plan, the General Committee was associated almost daily with Sister Louise Y.
Robison and _ her counselors, Sister Amy Brown Lyman and Sister Kate M. Barker, and General Secretary-Treasurer Julia A. F. Lund.
Their untiring efforts and (Continued on page 221) PAGE 161
The Promise Of The Gospel In Helping Us To Meet Present-Day Crises. President David O. McKay N one of the most solemn occaQO sions of his entire munistry, Jesus said to his chosen Twelve: "These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation; but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world."
These significant words contain both a promise and a statement of fact. The promise: If men will hearken to His "words" they shall find peace. The fact: In the world there is tribulation.
There is also an implication that each is dependent upon the attitude and actions of men themselves. No one will deny that the world today is full of tribulation. A look at the map of the continents discloses the fact that Destruction ndes the waves of every ocean, and not a land but is or may be threatened with deadly bombardment. In the pathway of barbarous war, stealthily stalks the spectre of starvation, and lurking menacingly close, ready to add to the scourge of misery and death, are the ghastly destroyers, Disease and Pestilence. Sad though ? it is, in this world-wide holocaust the innocent must suffer even more poignantly than those whose.
Guilt merits the disaster and death they have fostered.
Tribulation means distress or suffering caused by oppression, persecution, affliction, etc., and these are PAGE 162 the result of injustice and cruelty on the part of those who at present would not only subjugate but exterminate all who refuse to subscribe to their dictation or to a particular way of life. The real source of all this lies in the hearts of men where are born and fostered the vices that breed suspicion, hatred, avarice, greed, enmity, dishonesty, treachery, _blasphemy, a denial of the existence of God and of an orderly universe. The result is that tribulation is rampant! The spirit of the antiChrist is abroad! The achievements of science in power, speed, and mechanism misapplied by gangsters and renegades are being utilized not for the progress and happiness, but for the oppression and subjugation of the peoples of the globe.
Dictatorship is on a rampage while Liberty and Freedom seek for protection and effective means of defense!
Whenever honor, virtue, and integrity are disregarded, seeds of sorrow and suffering are sown. In World War I, Belgium was invaded because of the violation of a sacred treaty considered by the perpetrators merely as "a scrap of paper." As a consequence, among other tragedies, beneath the ruins of Fort Loncin lie buried three hundred and fifty loyal soldiers who preferred death to dishonor. In the present war, a THE PROMISE OF THE GOSPEL broken promise preceded the invasion and subjugation of Czechoslovakia. As a result of treachery and jealousy over three thousand officers and men were massacred at Pearl Harbor?and so we might multiply illustrations, showing how tribulation and anguish of soul come from dishonor, deceit, ambition, suspicion, hatred, etc. Isn't it about time that man, the boasted crown of creation, began to use just a little of the God-given reason he possesses, and to seek earnestly and conscientiously for the "things" that will bring peace? The Gospel not only promises peace and contentment, but names the conditions upon which peace and contentment are predicated.
These conditions apply to the nation as well as to the individual. A Promise Regarding the Land of America The Lord has promised that "This land (America) shall be a land of liberty," provided iniquity shall not abound.: "If they shall keep his commandments they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to take away the land of their inheritance; and they shall dwell safely forever." It is interesting to note that on December 23, 1941, a member of the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States (Mr.
Smith of Washington), made the following significant comment on the necessity of the nations to live more nearly in accordance with righteous principles: "The peoples and Nations of the earth, including ourselves and our own beloved country, have disre- 163 garded and violated the basic laws of the Universe, which are spiritual and moral. In his second inaugural address, one of the most sublime utterances of modern times, which we in this solemn hour would do wisely to read, Abraham Lincoln enunciated the eternal verity that Nations as well as individuals are subject to the just judgments of Almighty God for their conduct and deeds. "This terrible war of Armageddon which engulfs the world has come upon the children of men as the inevitable effect and natural result of sin, selfishness, prejudice, greed, ignorance, idolatry, and the worship of mammon. Men collectively have failed to heed the rules of life and the laws of Nations as revealed by God the Father in the Christian Bible. "Mr. Speaker, for many years it has been evident to thinking men and women that we are sowing the wind and would ultimately reap the whirlwind.
Social injustice, industrial cruelty, racial prejudice, national selfishness, national arrogance, national pride, have brought upon all mankind the punishment and penalty which must inevitably follow as the final effect of wrongdoing and unrighteousness. The governments of the earth have failed miserably to properly appraise and evaluate the dignity and worth of human personality and the human soul. No Nation, not even our own, has practiced the virtues of true democracy ?Christian democracy.
Democracy is not merely a political system?not only majority rule by popular elections and governments by parliaments and congresses.
Democracy is far more than that.
Democracy is individual liberty?equality of op- 164 portunity and justice for the individual. The Christian Bible truly reveals the certain method and perfect plan whereby such democracy ?the Kingdom of God?shall be attained and become a reality upon earth for all mankind. "My colleagues, the Nations and peoples of earth must go back to God the Father, no matter how hard, how long, or how bloody the road. The conflict in which we are now and will be engaged during the coming years.
Shall determine the destiny and type of government for mankind for the next thousand years. By our courageous faith, by our patient sacrifice, and by our loyal obedience to God we shall build a permanent new-world social order, founded upon the enduring and eternal principles of Christian truth and justice.
This will be the grand climax of mankind's age-long endeavor and imminent struggle to conquer the chaos of evil forces and achieve and establish the divine order of the ages?peace, plenty, and prosperity for all Nations and all mankind."
Notwithstanding her many shortcomings, her weaknesses and sins, and the blunders of those who guide her destiny, in the main the United States has been as unselfish in her international dealings and as willing to help the downtrodden and oppressed, as any nation in all history. While God will inevitably punish her transgressions, He will as inevitably reward her virtues; so, in these days of tribulation, comfort and hope can. Be found in the promise of the Gospel that this nation is secure so long as it abides by the principles of righteousness and peace; and that "there shall be none to take away the land of their inheritance."  
Promise and Conditions for the Individual Conditions that will bring peace and comfort to the individual are as easily found and named as are the evils and vices that bring tribulation, and if cherished in proportion to their worth are as easily practiced. A few of the fundamentals of these Jesus referred to when he said: "These things I have spoken unto you that in me you might have peace."
Summarized they are (1) acceptance of Christ as the Way, the Truth, and the Life; (2) a love of God manifested in deeds; and (3) a love for one another. In other words, as the Savior said on another occasion: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind,.. And thy neighbour as thyself." But skeptics and pessimists say that these principles are too general, too idealistic, that mankind is too near the beasts of creation, struggling to eke out an existence, even to attempt to apply them in daily life. In reply we say, men and women have practiced them and have been happy, and have made the world better in so doing. A group did it in Jesus' day, and they have influenced millions of lives since. 'There have been millions since their day, some heralded on the pages of history and others of whom the world has never heard who, through love of God, truth, and of fellow men, have "never yielded to the pressure of circumstances," and who, though they faced persecution and even death, could say in their hearts as the Prophet Joseph Smith declared as he turned into the path that led to his martyrdom: "If my life is of no value THE PROMISE OF THE GOSPEL to my friends, it is of no value to me."
Such moral heroes ever strive and, to a great extent, succeed in adding to their "faith, virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge, temperance; and to temperance, patience; and to patience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly kindiess; and to brotherly kindness, charity. For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ." It is gratifying to know that there are hundreds of thousands of men and women today who are turning their hearts yearningly toward the Way, the Truth, and the Life. The world needs millions more whose influence will counteract the evil spread by the multi-millions who love the world, the flesh, and the anti-Christ. The Spiritual Life the True Life of Man After all, the spiritual life is the true life of man. It is what distinguishes him from the beasts of the forests. It lifts him above the physical, yet he is still susceptible to all the natural contributions that life can give him that are needful for his happiness or contributive to his advancement. Though "in the world, he is not of the world."
Jesus taught that men and women fail to live truly, and really amount to nothing unless they have spirituality. The spiritual force underlies everything, and without it nothing worth while can be accomplished. "Spiritual needs can be met only by spiritual means. All government, laws, methods, and organizations are of no value unless men and women 165 are filled with truth, righteousness, and mercy.
Material things have no power to raise the sunken spirit. Gravitation, electricity, and steam are great forces, but they are all powerless to change the motives of men and women. The wealth of a Rockefeller cannot heal a_ broken heart, and the wisdom of all our universities cannot turn into the paths of nghteousness a wayward soul. Men can be born again only through religion." The Gospel, Glad Tidings of Great Joy, is the true guide to mankind; and that man or woman is happiest and most content who lives nearest to its teachings, which are the antithesis of hatred, persecution, tyranny, domination, injustice ? things which foster tribulation, destruction, and death throughout the world. "The fruits of the spirit are love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance." Hope Even in Death Finally, a belief in the Gospel robs death of its terror, and gives assurance of eternal life for each individual. It is true that from the moment of birth we turn toward death; and Come he slow or come he fast, It is but death that comes at last. Yet, the promise of the Gospel is that "He that believeth in Christ, though he were dead, yet shall he live."
What the sun in the heavenly blue is to the earth struggling to get free from winter's grip, so is the Gospel to sorrowing souls yearning for something higher and_ better than mankind has yet found in this war-ridden world, Relief Society General Presidents Personal Reminiscences 'Annie Wells Cannon S the centennial of Relief SoA ciety approaches, I am looking backward recalling faces and figures of the iia women leadEMMA HALE SMITH General President of Relief Society 1842-44 ers of the organization.
Hundreds of them I have known, but outstanding among them are the "elect" women designated president.
Truly grateful am I that I have intimately known them all, with one exception?Emma Hale Smith.
Acquaintance with these women has been a rare experience that has enriched my life immeasurably. When I was a young girl, a choice group of "the leading sisters" occasionally met in a social way in the homes ofeach other.
They would relate incidents and experiences of the early days in the Church, bear their testimonies and sing praises to PAGE 166 the Lord. Why I was permitted to be present on these occasions I know not, save that in later years I might testify of the things I learned.
There were present women from Nauvoo, some of them charter members of the Relief Society.
They often spoke of "Sister Emma," and from them I have in mind a picture of her like an etching. MMA HALE SMITH was a tall, raceful, dark-eyed woman with an oval face and an abundance of dark hair. She was high-spirited and animated. The early years of her married life brought many disappointments and sorrows which she met with courage.
When at long last she had seeming security in her Nauvoo home, she was gracious in hospitality, generous, and sympathetic. | Under her leadership the Relief Society was well launched and started on its way to advancement.
Again came persecution, her tragic widowhood, and the exodus from Illinois in which she elected not to join. To others fell the task to carry on. BLIZA ROXEY SNOW was held > by the women of the Church as an ne She was a distinct Hebraic type, refined, intellectual, and sublimely spiritual. Her presence demanded attention and respect, a silent, undemonstrative admiration. She had dark, piercing eyes, dark hair which she wore smoothly parted under a cap of black lace and velvet rib- RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENTS bon. Her attire was always neat and of somber colors, and she was most precise in speech and manner. The picture seems austere, but she was ELIZA R. SNOW General President of Relief Society 1866-87 teally very human, and her greatest desire was the welfare and advancement of the women of the Church, to whom her word was law.
Only twice do I remember when her counsel went unheeded.
Once was in the days of retrenchment and reform when she designed a uniform called "The Deseret Costume," advising its adoption. The older sisters were not enthusiastic, and the younger ones rebelled.
After all, she was just about one hundred years ahead of the times, for the slacks and blouses worn today are very similar in style.
Another occasion was on one of her birthdays when her friends gave her a long, black silk cape with a crimson velvet lining. She insisted that it be changed for one with a less brilliant lining, but they put it around her and seated her like a queen; she 167 laughingly yielded to their persuasions. She had a rather ascetic life, officiating daily in the House of the Lord, writing prose and poetry, ZINA D. H. YOUNG General President of Relief Society 1888-1901 studying and reading, and communing in prayer?a worthy example to Latter-day Saint women. ZINA D. HUNTINGTON YOUNG, known throughout the Church as "Dear Aunt Zina," was greatly loved for her broad charity?charity in accordance with the admonition of Paul. To her, Relief Society owes its watchword, "Charity Never Faileth." It is sweet to recall her kindly ways, her motherly solicitude, her beautiful madonna-like face, her soft voice and serene dignity. She was a good neighbor and an unfailing friend. She had an understanding heart, and those who heeded her wise counsel did not make mistakes. I recall many circumstances which were tragic enough to cause anger or 168 despair in those concerned, when Aunt Zina would grasp the situation in her calm, placid manner and create a peaceful atmosphere; her influence was like oil on the troubled waters. Her gifts were many.' She was an eloquent speaker; she could stir one to tears or wonder when she related stories of her experiences. She had the gift of tongues and the interpretation thereof. On the occasions referred to when the sisters met in their home socials, I have heard Elizabeth Ann Whitney sing in this gift and Aunt Zina give the interpretation; both were aged women whose voices generally were not good, but on these occasions their voices were like the voices of young women, and the words of blessing were in beautiful verse. ATHSHEBA W. SMITH was a queenly woman, large of stature and of commanding presence. She was the last survivor of that choice group of eighteen charter members of Relief Society, and she often testified of the Prophet Joseph's teaching on the blessed occasion of the organization of the Society. One of Aunt Bathsheba's characteristics was a sympathetic understanding of young people. She had had a romantic gitlhood and even in her eighties still enjoyed reading an oldfashioned love story. I recall with a'smile an occasion when she visited one of our Retrenchment meetings.
Some of the sisters were advising the girls "not to follow the wicked fashions of the world, and to discard their frills and furbelows."
Some of the girls spoke and promised to cut the ruffles from their skirts. Then Aunt Bathsheba stood up in all her dignity and said, "I was married at  eighteen, and my husband, Brother George A. Smith, said to me, 'Don't think you are an old lady because you are married, and that you have BATHSHEBA W. SMITH General President of Relief Society 1901-10 to give up your girlish ways.
Carry your starch bag in your reticule to keep the shine off your face, and be as beautiful as you can." (These were the days before make-up.) I believe there were not many discarded ruffles, and the girls all loved her. MMELINE B. WOODWARD WELLS was delicately exquisite in face and figure, keen of mind, refined, intelligent, loyal, and tender; yet with it all she was the most courageous and valiant woman I have ever known. For nearly forty years she was secretary of the Relief Society, during which time her life was like a golden thread weaving together the activities, struggles and achievements of the Society into a beautiful tapestry. The Exponent, the wheat, the silk, the Deseret Hos- - RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENTS pital, the Woman's Store, these and the lives of the Latter-day Saint women, all were her concern. She loved the society of children and EMMELINE B. WELLS General President of Relief Society 1910-21 'young people, and her beautiful testimony of her first meeting with the Prophet Joseph Smith and the scene in the Grove when the mantle of the Prophet fell upon Brigham Young has been borne to thousands from the pulpit and by the fireside. She had passed her eightieth birthday when she was called by President Joseph F'.
Smith to the general presidency of the Relief Society, which office she held for eleven years. She was the last of that Nauvoo group, a silver link in the chain binding the old and the new. LARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS was the first of Utah's native daughters chosen for this office of General President of Relief Society,. An office which she graced with unusual poise and efficiency. As a young girl she was a bright, 169 industrious student and a_ leader among her playmates. At an early age she evidenced the qualities necessary for her later activities. She, CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS General President of Relief Society 1921-28 like a number of other young girls, was called into the Relief Society by President Brigham Young to learn to braid straw that we might be able to make our own hats.
Clarissa was one who accomplished that end, most of us never did, but we all admired her dexterity immensely.
When visitors came to our school in the Social Hall, we knew she would be the one called to show off the progress of our work. She could melt us to tears with her rendition of "The Bridge of Sighs" or "The Snow, The Snow, The Beautiful Snow." All these things were a preparation for success in her later years. She was a pleasing speaker, having a clear voice, and she was wise in her counsel and advice to the sisters. Her home life was charming. It was always delightful to visit there, for she was a gracious and 170 hospitable hostess. In Relief Society work she had a wonderful background, having held every position LOUISE Y. ROBISON General President of Relief Society 1928-39 from ward teacher to General President. OUISE YATES ROBISON presided for eleven years with queenly grace and dignity. She too came up from the ranks, having worked in the Church auxiliaries from childhdod. In her young married life she was active in ward and stake Relief Society work, so she came to her position as General President well qualified to carry on. It is a notable fact that in all the hundred years of the organization there has ever been marked advancement, never any retrogression. Sister Robison is tall and graceful with a beautiful, animated countenance.
Courteous in manner, she wins admiration whereever she appears. She is extremely neat in appearance and in her work? her loveliness will be remembered when in her Red Cross costume she  superintended the work in the gauze rooms; and she is lovely when in her white apparel she officiates among
AMY BROWN LYMAN
General President of Relief Society 1940? the sisters in the temple. She is held in loving admiration by all her coworkers throughout the Church. MY BROWN LYMAN is a beautiful woman with a charming personality. She possesses many gifts, not the least of which is that of making friends. She has a brilliant mind and is an expert in those things which she engages to attain. Had she chosen her own career as a young girl, one would have thought she would have chosen it along dramatic or artistic lines, but fate directed otherwise and led her into the field of social work, where she fitted perfectly into the Relief Society pattern. In an entertaining way she keeps large audiences or smaller groups in rapt attention while she relates experiences, de-.
Scribes adventures, or gives instruc- (Continued on page 221) The Rise Of The Women's Auxiliaries Clarissa A. Beesley Member of the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board T the commencement of any great movement there are found inspired souls who dream dreams of mighty accomplishments.
Their faith and courage never falter; step by step they go for-. Ward. We can well believe that in the early days of the Church, men, and women too, had visions of the Zion that was to be.
Those who had heard the Prophet Joseph predict that the Saints should become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains must have caught his spirit and in hope looked forward to that day. The Prophet knew that women, as well as men, would play an important part in building the structure on the foundation he had laid, and therefore we are not surprised that, under the inspiration of the Lord, he organized the Relief Society on that memorable March 17, 1842. We can imagine that with prophetic eye he looked through the years, beholding the hosts of noble women performing their mission of mercy, bringing comfort and peace | to thousands, teaching and guiding the mothers of Israel, becoming a bulwark to the Church. He and others were dreaming, too, of the needs and opportunities of youth, for there was organized in Nauvoo, during the winter of 1843, a group which might well be called the forerunner of the Mutual Improvement organizations. We read: One evening, in the latter part of January last, a few young people having assembled at the house of Heber C. Kimball, the follies of youth and the temptations to which they are exposed generally, but more especially in our city, became the topic of conversation. The company were lamenting the frivolous manner in which they spent their time, and their too frequent attendance at balls, parties, etc. Then Elder Kimball proposed that an appointment should be given out expressly for the young ladies and gentlemen, and he would give them special instruction and advice which the spirit of the Lord might suggest to him, which if followed would doubtless lead to a reformation in the conduct of his young friends. The proposition was received with delight and acted upon with alacrity.... A number of young people assembled at the house of Elder Billings where Elder Kimball addressed them for some time upon the duties of children to their parents, to society, and to their God; exhorting them to lay aside their vanity, light mindedness, pride, and frivolity, and endeavor to show themselves worthy of the religion which they had embraced. The address was so well received that it was voted, almost by acclamation, to hold a similar meeting the following week.
Decided to meet in Brother Farr's schoolroom as Elder Billings' house was too small.
Then follows an account of several meetings held in succession, at each of which Elder Kimball spoke to the young people in "that simple, plain, and affectionate manner which goes directly to the heart." At the fifth meeting, President Smith was present and appears to have been deeply moved by the number in attendance, and also by their attitude, Since he had organized the PAGE 171] 172 FIRST PRESIDENTS OF THE. CENTRAL  eo (GENERAL) BOARDS OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES Left to right: Louie B. Felt, Primary Association; Eliza R. Snow, Relief Society; Elmina S. Taylor, Y. L. M. I. A. Female Relief Society in the spring of 1842, no doubt the subject of charity and benevolence was still upon his mind, for he advised these young people to assist the needy and unfortunate. He gave them as an immediate project the case of a brother who was lame and without a home. At first the young men met alone to formulate a plan to carry out this and other relief work, but it was soon decided to ask the young ladies to join them.
