[Vol29 | March 1942 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Message To The Relief Society From The Presiding Bishopric]

"To do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God." (Micah)

"TO do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God" (Micah 6:8) is the epitome of pure and undefiled religion, for in it are manifest the true principles of life and eternity.

To do justly is the equivalent of living a righteous life; and true righteousness exemplifies part of the second great commandment, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." To love mercy motivates one to deeds of kindness and helpfulness to his fellows; and to walk humbly with thy God portrays faith, obedience, prayerfulness, and love of God.

The motherhood of the restored Church of the Lord Jesus Christ is represented in a divinely inspired organization known as the Relief Society, the very title of which indicates its mission of service, helpfulness, and love for those in distress. The motto of this great women's organization could well be: "To do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God."

In the Meridian of Time, the Priesthood of Aaron was restored; the restoration of the Melchizedek Priesthood followed, and all of the keys for the salvation, happiness, and exaltation of mankind were again placed on the earth. The Priesthood, a perfect order and system of government, affords an opportunity of service for every man in the Church, be he young or old. But the Lord did not intend that the privilege of service would be committed to the male membership of the Church alone, but that women should render a service peculiar to their instinct of motherly love; consequently, the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to call the women of the Church together and organize the Relief Society.

The composite powers of the Priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ and the softening touch of the love of Latter-day Saint mothers has done much to alleviate pain, sorrow, and woe. There is not another united effort similar to it in the world; and over the 100 years since the Relief Society has assisted the Priesthood of the Lord, its great work of love, kindness, devotion, and helpfulness to those in the vale of poverty, sorrow, and sickness stands out as a shining example to the world.

In this day of economic stress, this great organization of mothers renders an invaluable service under the direction of the bishops of the Church, the Relief Society being the most important aid available to the bishops in administering to the needs of those in distress; and every wise and prudent bishop, fully realizing that Relief Society mothers are home managers in their own right, calls upon them to visit homes where the powers of death, sickness, and want have manifested themselves, knowing that an accurate, complete report will be rendered, which makes it possible to give assistance intelligently and according to actual need.

The Relief Society has endeavored throughout the century of its existence to educate its members in the correct principles of welfare work, emphasizing the importance of a type of assistance which never demoralizes the individual because of a literal overgenerous supply of necessities, but which, rather, encourages the individual to maintain a degree of self-respect, and which helps in such a way as not to cause him undue humiliation or a feeling of futility.

This great mothers' organization advocates: First, to put into every man's heart a sense of his own supreme worth in the sight of God. Respect for the individual and for his personality is a fundamental principle in the art of helping, and, far more important than all, Relief Society teachings aim to maintain the morale of an individual so that he will not lose his independence and allow others to do for him what he can do for himself.

Second, any normal individual may require temporary assistance, but to keep him in a state of dependence when he could maintain himself is a crime against the individual as well as the society which supports him. It robs society of the kind of people who make a society self-sustaining. Such help causes the individual to sell his birthright for a mess of pottage. If all relief agencies, be they of a religious or governmental nature, would but follow these two fundamentals in social welfare work, there would be little need of concern for the destiny of our great nation, the element of demoralization would disappear, and men would again become strong.

There is in the hearts of these "Angels of Mercy" an abiding faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and his restored Priesthood, which builds faith and courage in the hearts of those who are beset with many of life's problems. Aside from waging a war against poverty, this great organization of women affords its membership many wonderful opportunities in the fields of culture, literature, theology, domestic science, and recreation, literally making it possible for thousands of women who live in the remote parts of the Church to come in contact with the finer things of life.

"To do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God" is more than an axiom with the mothers of the Church, it is an actual daily practice in their lives and a shining example of what Paul termed pure religion when he declared: "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." (James 1:27)
