[Vol29 | March 1942 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Prophet Joseph Smith I Presidency]
They show mercy. It is their action of love and charity that brings the most subtle and tingling sense of happiness that can be felt by any human being. It is a conduct of life built up by faith and a feeling of joy which comes from service to mankind. No day is too cold, nor night too dark for them to go into homes far away to help in times of sickness and death.
Always ready to bless the afflicted by carrying help, always bringing sunshine into homes where little children are crying, the Relief Sgciety sisters, blessed as they are, give a silent happiness to the stricken -heart and bid all who mourn to look to God. The First Council of the Seventy takes pleasure in this tribute to the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and hopes that in the one hundred years to come they may continue their dreams of service and fulfill the high purpose of their creation. PAGE 157 ?~ PRESIDING BISHOPRIC Left to right: Joseph L. Worthlin, LeGrand Richards, Marvin O. Ashton. Message To The Relief Society From She Presiding Bishopric "To do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God." 66 O do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God" (Micah 6:8) is the epitome of pure and undefiled religion, for in it are manifest the true principles of life and eternity. To do justly is the equivalent of living a righteous life; and true righteousness exemplifies part of the second great commandment, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." To love mercy motivates one to deeds of kindness and helpfulness to his fellows; and to walk humbly with thy God portrays faith, obedience, prayerfulness, and love of God. The motherhood of the restored Church of the Lord Jesus Christ is represented in a divinely inspired organization known as the Relief Society, the very title of which indicates its mission of service, helpfulness, and love for those in distress. The motto of this great women's organization could well be: "To do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God." In the Meridian of Time, the Priesthood of Aaron was restored; the restoration of the Melchizedek Priesthood followed, and all of the keys for the salvation, happiness, and exaltation of mankind were again placed on the earth. The Priesthood, a perfect order and system of government, affords an opportunity of service for every man. In the Church, be he young or old. But the Lord did not intend that the privilege of service would be (Micah) committed to the male membership of the Church alone, but that women should render a service peculiar to their instinct of motherly love; consequently, the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to call the women of the Church together and organize the Relief Society. The composite powers of the Priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ and the softening touch of the love of Latter-day Saint mothers has done much to alleviate pain, sorrow, and woe.
There is not another united effort similar to it in the world; and over the 100 years since the Relief Society has assisted the Priesthood of the Lord, its great work of love, kindness, devotion, and helpfulness to those in the vale of poverty, sorrow, and sickness stands out as a shining example to the world. In this day of economic stress, this great organization of mothers renders an invaluable service under the direction of the bishops of the Church, the Relief Society being the most important aid available to the bishops in administering to the needs of those in distress; and every wise and prudent bishop, fully realizing that Relief Society mothers are home managers in their own right, calls upon them to visit homes where the powers of death, sickness, and want have manifested themselves, knowing that an accurate, complete report will be rendered, which makes it possible to give assistance intelligently and according to actual need. (Continued on page 220)
