[Vol29 | March 1942 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: The Rise of the Women's Auxiliaries Clarissa A. Beesley]
The Rise Of The Women's Auxiliaries Clarissa A. Beesley Member of the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board T the commencement of any great movement there are found inspired souls who dream dreams of mighty accomplishments.
Their faith and courage never falter; step by step they go for-. Ward. We can well believe that in the early days of the Church, men, and women too, had visions of the Zion that was to be.
Those who had heard the Prophet Joseph predict that the Saints should become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains must have caught his spirit and in hope looked forward to that day. The Prophet knew that women, as well as men, would play an important part in building the structure on the foundation he had laid, and therefore we are not surprised that, under the inspiration of the Lord, he organized the Relief Society on that memorable March 17, 1842. We can imagine that with prophetic eye he looked through the years, beholding the hosts of noble women performing their mission of mercy, bringing comfort and peace | to thousands, teaching and guiding the mothers of Israel, becoming a bulwark to the Church. He and others were dreaming, too, of the needs and opportunities of youth, for there was organized in Nauvoo, during the winter of 1843, a group which might well be called the forerunner of the Mutual Improvement organizations. We read: One evening, in the latter part of January last, a few young people having assembled at the house of Heber C. Kimball, the follies of youth and the temptations to which they are exposed generally, but more especially in our city, became the topic of conversation. The company were lamenting the frivolous manner in which they spent their time, and their too frequent attendance at balls, parties, etc. Then Elder Kimball proposed that an appointment should be given out expressly for the young ladies and gentlemen, and he would give them special instruction and advice which the spirit of the Lord might suggest to him, which if followed would doubtless lead to a reformation in the conduct of his young friends. The proposition was received with delight and acted upon with alacrity.... A number of young people assembled at the house of Elder Billings where Elder Kimball addressed them for some time upon the duties of children to their parents, to society, and to their God; exhorting them to lay aside their vanity, light mindedness, pride, and frivolity, and endeavor to show themselves worthy of the religion which they had embraced. The address was so well received that it was voted, almost by acclamation, to hold a similar meeting the following week.
Decided to meet in Brother Farr's schoolroom as Elder Billings' house was too small.
Then follows an account of several meetings held in succession, at each of which Elder Kimball spoke to the young people in "that simple, plain, and affectionate manner which goes directly to the heart." At the fifth meeting, President Smith was present and appears to have been deeply moved by the number in attendance, and also by their attitude, Since he had organized the PAGE 171] 172 FIRST PRESIDENTS OF THE. CENTRAL  eo (GENERAL) BOARDS OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES Left to right: Louie B. Felt, Primary Association; Eliza R. Snow, Relief Society; Elmina S. Taylor, Y. L. M. I. A. Female Relief Society in the spring of 1842, no doubt the subject of charity and benevolence was still upon his mind, for he advised these young people to assist the needy and unfortunate. He gave them as an immediate project the case of a brother who was lame and without a home. At first the young men met alone to formulate a plan to carry out this and other relief work, but it was soon decided to ask the young ladies to join them.
They therefore organized under the name of "Young Gentlemen and Ladies Relief Society of Nauvoo." "This society met on the last Tuesday in each month at 6:00 91 p. M.
Thus the older women and the young girls were brought into active participation in the work of the Church. We have no historical account of any organization of children, but "Aunt" Emmeline B. *Times and Seasons, Vol. IV, p. 154.
Wells always insisted that there were a few children's meetings held in Nauvoo, conducted by some of the sisters. HE dream of auxiliary work, and particularly the part women were to play in it, persisted after the entrance into the valleys of the mountains, but the tasks of those beginning years in Utah were so strenuous that a period of time elapsed before efforts were made toward a realization of this dream. As early as 1853, however, a group of pioneer women, no doubt with the memory of their beloved Nauvoo Society still fresh in their minds, met in the Social Hall, Salt Lake City, to organize themselves into a unit for women's work.
Other organizations soon followed in the various wards of the city, evidently with the full encouragement of the authorities of the Church, for in 1866 we find Eliza R. Snow, that woman of THE RISE OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES inspired mind and soul, appointed by President Brigham Young to assist the bishops in organizing ward and branch Relief Societies throughout the Church, a work which she continued until the end of her life in 1887.
Then in 1869 came the retrenchment movement, in which both the older and the younger women were to be so vitally concerned. President Young had noted in his travels among the people that they were vying with each other in the matter of entertainment as well as in dress.
Often the women were kept from their meetings in order to make preparations for meals.
This troubled him and, meeting M. Isabella Horne, another pioneer woman of outstanding character, while she was visiting in Gunnison, he said to her: Sister Horne, I am going to give you a mission to begin when you return to your home?the mission of teaching retrenchment among the wives and daughters of Israel. It is not right that they should spend so much time in the preparation of their food and adornment of their bodies, and neglect their spiritual education.' Mrs.
Horne entered upon this new duty with humility, but with energy.
After counseling further with President Young, Sister Snow, and others, the ward Relief Societies were called together in her home, and the matter was presented to them. The sisters manifested much interest and informally organized themselves, thus beginning the Senior Retrenchment Association.
This was the commencement of the *History of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, p. 31. 173 uniting of a group of wards, and presaged the stake unit. But President Young had further plans.
Like the Prophet Joseph, he was deeply concerned over the welfare of the young people and could also see that they were essential to the growth of the Church. On November 28, 1869, in the old-fashioned parlor of the Lion House, he called together his family to effect an organization among his daughters which was destined to spread until it should touch the lives of all the young women of the Church:.... The husband and father sat, as was his wont, in the middle of the long room by the round table.
Beside him was his loved friend and counselor, President George A. Smith, and on the red velvet davenport, the seat reserved for visitors, sat Sister Smith. At his right hand was "Aunt" Eliza R. Snow, with her tall, slim figure neatly and plainly clad, her fine old Hebrew face with its deep-set eyes and clear-cut, regular features composed with their usual customary serenity.
Around the room were ranged the rest of the family as usual. President Young proceeded to give his reasons for calling them together:. I have long had it in my mind to organize the young ladies of Zion into an association, so that they might assist the older members of the Church, their fathers and mothers, in propagating, teaching, and practicing the principles I have been so long teaching.
There is need for the young daughters of Israel to get a living testimony of the truth.
Young men obtain this while on missions, but this way is not.
Opened to the girls.
More testimonies are obtained on the feet than on the knees. I wish our girls to obtain a knowledge of the Gospel for themselves..... We are about to organize a Retrenchment Association, which I want you all to join, and I want you to vote to retrench in your dress, in your tables, in 174 your speech, wherein you have been guilty of silly, extravagant speeches and lightmindedn?ss of thought.
Retrench in everything that is bad and worthless, and improve in everything that is good and beautiful. Not to make yourselves unhappy, but to live so that you may be truly happy in this life and the life to come.* The officers chosen were: Ella Y. Empey, president; Emily Y. Clawson, Zina Y. Williams, Maria Y. Dougall, Caroline Young, Dora Young, Phebe Young, counselors? all daughters of President Young. Now Sister Snow had a dual responsibility, not only to place the older sisters on a sure foundation, but also to assist the younger women. In a very few months both the Senior -and Junior Retrenchment Associations were going forward rapidly and successfully. In Salt Lake City there were branches in most of the wards, and others were being effected in Ogden, Cache Valley, Box Elder County, Provo, and other places, generally under the direction of this great woman. On May 28, 1870, there occurred in the Fourteenth Ward the ninth meeting of the Ladies Cooperative Retrenchment Association, the minutes of which are the first on record.
These minutes indicate the close bond of fellowship and love between these "mothers and daughters" which was to continue into the future and always: Sister* Zina D.
Young said that we had met to serve God, that she was happy to see so many of the sisters together. She stated that the Female Retrenchment Society had never been organized in public; that they had met at Sister Horne's and organized there, but it was necessary to do 'Ibid, pages 7, 9, 10.  so in public. She then presented Mrs. Mary Isabella Horne as presidentess of the Ladies' Co-operative Retrenchment Association.
Unanimously accepted.. Sister Eliza R.
Snow then said she wished to make a few remarks with regard to the Young Ladies' department. It was President Young's suggestion, because he thought they would have more influence, as the reform was to consist not only in table retrenchment, but in the trimmings, and trailing dresses, also short ones. [She hoped] that the sisters, when they begin to retrench in long dresses, might not shorten them so that modesty blushes.... If the angels were to come in our midst, how would they be able to distinguish us from the Gentiles?' What a busy decade that must have been from 1870 to 1880! As new wards and stakes came into existence, so also the women's groups multiplied. In 1872, the first woman's magazine of "Mormondom" came into existence?The Woman's Exponent, under the patronage of Brigham Young, Eliza R. Snow, and others.
This paper although not owned and controlled by the Relief Society, was the accredited organ of the Society. Lula Greene Richards was its first editor, serving for a period of five years, during the last two years of which she was assisted by Emmeline B. Wells, who succeeded her as editor.
These two young women became well known and loved among the Saints, and like Sister Eliza R. Snow, both of these editors possessed the sweet gift of poetry.
With his interest in youth ever fresh and intense, President Young saw fit to organize in 1875 the young men of Zion, giving Junius F.
Wells the important task of supervision. He named this organization "Young 'Ibid, p. 33, 34- THE RISE OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES Men's Mutual Improvement Association."
This influenced the young women, and they at once desired a similar name, so that by 1877 we have the "Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association." And with this change, the word "Retrenchment" seems to fade from the picture in both the younger and older groups, Relief Society coming again into its own. ANP now a new opportunity for women was dawning in the field where, after all, they are at their best ?that of working with little children.
There had been some faint beginnings along the line of organized work with children before this. ?perhaps at Nauvoo, and also among the pioneers. "Aunt Louisa's (Wells) Manner Meeting" had captured some boisterous youngsters and taught them lessons in courtesy and gentleness and the cardinal virtues of honesty and_ truthfulness.
Here and there, weekday groups are believed to have sprung up tempotarily. But in 1878, another great woman came into the foreground with her inspired thought of organizing an association for little folks. It was in March, 1878, that Mrs. Aurelia Spencer Rogers, of Farmington, Utah, thought of an organization for little boys where they could be taught '"'everything good and how to behave." She noticed that many of them were allowed to be out on the streets at night and were learning things that little boys should never learn.
Some of them were growing up to be "hoodlums" rather than Latter-day Saints and gentlemen.* She consulted Sister Snow, who ~ conferred with the leaders of the ?The Children's Friend, April, 1940, p. 166. 175
Church, and the result was that Bishop Hess of Farmington, where Sister Rogers resided, gave her permission to preside over an organization for children.
Immediately the thought came to her that girls should be included, especially to participate in the singing, so she again sought Sister Snow's advice by letter. The answer from Sister Snow was written from Salt Lake City, August 4, 1878. It said, "My dear Sister Rogers: The spirit and contents of your letter pleased me much. I feel assured that the inspiration of heaven is directing you, and that a great and very important movement is being inaugurated for the future of Zion.... You are right?we must have the girls as well as the boys?they must be trained together.' It was Sister Snow who named this newest of organizations over which women were to preside?The Primary; and it was she who later outlined the program which should bless the multitudes of Zion's boys and girls. Thus, by the close of the 70's, the dream of women's work in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was well on its way to glorious fulfilment. IGHTEEN-EIGHTY! The Jubilee year of the Church and the birth of a new epoch in the auxiliaries! Eliza R. Snow, who up to this time had guided the work of all three branches of the women's work?for the older women, the young girls, and the children?was now to relinquish part of her heavy responsibility. She was asked by President John Taylor to call together all of the women for a "Sisters' Conference" as he desired to "Ibid, p. 167. 176 separate the work, at least in part, and to place it under three central (general) boards. Two meetings were held, one in the Tabernacle and one in the Assembly Hall. In the first meeting the Primary Board and the Relief Society Board were organized in the order named. Louie B.
Felt was made president over the Primary Association, and Eliza R.
Snow was made president of all the Relief Societies. In the afternoon Elmina S.
Taylor was selected to preside over the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association.
From this eventful hour the two new presidents took their place among the honored Latter-day Saint women leaders. The full story of the work of those early General Board members would make interesting reading. In buggies and whitetops they traveled, for days and sometimes for weeks at a time, throughout the stakes and wards, establishing local organizations, strengthening those already begun, and putting into operation new plans as they were born.
There were programs to formulate, "guides" to prepare containing  texts for study, correspondence to carry on, and the many other details incident to the work of these new organizations.
Other magazines were to be founded, one for each of these groups; there were departments to be organized with graded courses of study, and new assignments to be fulfilled as they were received from time to time from the presiding Priesthood. A new day in the women's auxiliaries had arrived?a new day of intensified effort, expansion, progress. NE hundred years have passed since the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key for women. Eliza R.
Snow and those other choice spirits have gone to their rest, leaving behind a rich legacy. The dream is in part fulfilled, but new visions beckon onward. The first of these three groups proudly commemorates its centennial anniversary, while we of the other two organizations pay our tribute of love and honor.
United in a great purpose, whether serving the mothers, the youth, or the children, the womanhood 6f the Church must ever move forward to its high destiny. ~~