[Vol29 | March 1942 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: NOTES FROM THE FIELD]
NOTES FROM THE FIELD ELDER WILLIAM J. CHAMBERS, OF EDEN, UTAH Standing in front of prize-winning float for which Paia Relief Society on the Island of Maui made most of the 14,500
Hibiscus blooms. Need it. They have been invited to have a booth in a large carnival sponsored by the Maui Agriculture Company in September, and will be given fifty percent of the proceeds for a new chapel expected to be built in the next few months." Reports from Mrs. Cox indicate that the Relief Societies in the Hawaiian Mission are growing both in number, unity, and effectiveness. In her letter of January 26, 1942, she said: "I think the Hawaiian Mission did its full share toward bringing the total Relief Society membership in the Church to 100,000 by 1942. There were actually only twenty-two organized and active branch Relief Societies in the Mission when I arrived in July, 1939... Now we have thirty-six, and all seem to be increasingly active and enthusiastic. Many Relief Society members do not belong to the Church?at present. "During 1941 there was a net increase of ten new branch organizations with a corresponding expansion in activities and membership, while visits and help to the needy and sick have greatly increased. Food raising, food preserving, sewing, quilting, and other projects are being carried on; much help was given toward construction of the Oahu Stake Tabernacle; help has been and is being given toward new chapels, gymnasiums, and recreation halls, and toward keeping buildings and grounds in a clean, inviting condition. And the missionaries still find many faithful 'mothers' among the Relief Society sisters who render services for these young men and women that should be greatly appreciated by the real mothers back in Utah and other states. 

 ?MARCH, 1942 RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE TORONTO BRANCH OF THE CANADIAN MISSION Seated at extreme left are Jemima Davies, president of the Toronto Relief Society, and Emily J. Smith, president of Relief Societies of the Canadian Mission. "Communication between the Islands has not been up to par since December 7; also work for me has been greatly increased, and working hours have been cut down by nightly blackouts. However, all is well here, and there has been considerable increase in all Church activities that are permitted under present conditions." Canadian. Mission. (Toronto, Ontario, Canada) HE accompanying picture shows the members of the Toronto Branch Relief Society gathered in the recreation hall of the chapel where light refreshments were served between the two sessions of the Toronto Branch Relief Society conference on September 29, 1940. Margaret Zuber, secretary-treasurer, who submitted the picture, reported that "at the evening session Elder David A. Smith, president of the Canadian Mission, was present and_ stressed the importance of Relief Society work, also the importance of women's membership in the organization. The Singing Mothers rendered several numbers, including 'A Hundred Thousand Strong.' " Syrian Mission (Aleppo, Syria) ABRAHAM HINDOIAN, branch president at Aleppo, Syria, in a letter dated September 7, 1941, and received by the General Board February 18, 1942, wrote: "I thank you that you remembered us by letter dated May 16, 1941. 'The Relief Society lessons for 1941-42 are in hand.
