The Official Round Table Clarissa Smith Williams and Amy Brown Lyman
======================================================================

OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE Conducted by Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. GENERAL NEWS The following incident, sent to us from New York by Mrs. Stella Paul Bradford, will interest our readers: "In New York harbor stands the Knickerbocker, a large mine sweeper, resting after the long fight with the treacherous 'U' boats. During the siege, it moved up and down through the danger zone, catching the mines in strong nets and rendering them harmless. Above sailed the airships to help detect the enemy, and one day a great observation balloon was seen floating on the water and was picked up by the crew. The pilot was never found, so no clue to the trouble it had been through was known. "When the beautiful soft rubber was brought aboard the ship, the men immediately claimed it for souvenirs and Brother Axel Lubbers, a Utah man, who was in service aboard the Knickerbocker, conceived the brilliant idea of making a novelty apron for the Brooklyn Relief Society bazaar from parts of the balloon. "He used the inner skin of soft, gray rubber, with bands of the outer covering, for a border. A unique design was made from the dull red, white and blue trimmings and glued to the center. It was a most artistic piece of work, and upon examining it, the motif was found to be Utah's emblem, the bee-hive, with a real bee on the side. A bee flew into the engine room at Brother Lubber's feet, and was such an unusual occurrence that he immediately thought of using it. A most life-like, full-blown sego lily, made from the white rubber, formed the lower part, and the whole was enclosed in narrow bandings of the national colors with which the balloon had declared its country. "At the bazaar, the apron was sold for a good price as a war relic, and that money, with what was realized from the sale of other articles, is being used by the Society in furnishing their room, and for war relief work." From the Annual Report of the Director General of Railroads, W. G. McAdoo, 1918, we glean some startling facts. Few people know that women have been engaged in any numbers as railroad employees, with the exception, of course, as stenographers and clerical assistants. There were 101,296 women employed in railroad labor in 1918. "The greater number, as might be expected, are employed in the clerical and semi-clerical occupations. Of the 101,296 employed October 1, 1918, 73,285 were working as clerks of all kinds, stenographers, accountants, comptometer operators, etc. In this class are employed for the first time numerous ticket sellers and bureau of information clerks. They were found well fitted for this type of work, and special instruction agencies were opened by the Government in several cities to give them the necessary training. "The next largest group of 5,555 appeared in woman's traditional occupation of cleaning. They clean stations, offices, etc., and are employed in the yards to clean coaches and Pullman cars, both inside and outside. For the first time, beginning about a year and a half ago, they were engaged to do the heavier work of wiping locomotives in the roundhouse. These engine wipers increased from 215 in January to 881 in October. Roundhouse work of all kinds employed 354 January 1 and 1,365 October 1. "In railroad shops, women entered the greatest variety of new occupations. Approximately 5,000 were employed, ranging from common laborers to skilled mechanics, earning the machinist's or carmen's rate of pay. "Only 100 women were found in actual train service. "The organization of a woman's service section, first brought to light, and then set to work to correct, some extremely unfavorable conditions connected with women's labors. Not only were the women employed deprived, in many instances, of anything like a rest room or wash room, they were not given toilet facilities within reasonable walking distance. Sometimes they were obliged to cross busy tracks or mount flights of steps in order to reach a toilet. Night work possessed hazardous features for the women employed, and the report of the Director makes this clear in detailed fashion. The Woman's Service of this branch of the service on one railroad which employed more than 2,000 women, 223 employed as laborers and 193 employed as truckers were transferred to other jobs or dismissed. Another railroad which in August employed 145 truckers has now entirely given up this form of work for women. The full cooperation of the railroad officials has been secured in making these important changes." It is evident from this report that in every instance where women have been employed, if suitable women were chosen, they THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 165 have given satisfaction and have surprised themselves, the sex and the railroad officials generally. It may, in general, be said that a fine class of women have been secured. In most cases they have received wages higher than any previously earned by women except in positions of much responsibility or those requiring special skill. The women are eager to remain with the railroads, as they have shown by their anxiety to retain their positions and share in all the privileges of the service. They appreciate the recognition given by the Government to the labor of women, especially the equality of wages assured to them. At last a majority of the legislatures of the states have ratified the Prohibition bill, which makes national prohibition assured beginning July 1, 1919. This is a moral triumph not to be weighed in words, and the decent element all over the world unite in congratulations to the United States for this progressive decision. The Czar of Russia  poor fellow  did at least one splendid thing when he put a ban upon vodka in Russia, as his act makes Russia the first nation to veto liquor. It is true that the revolutionists have restored the vodka traffic, but at least we may give credit to the Czar for this act. We are told that brewers and distillers are arranging for a line of establishments for the manufacture and distribution of liquors along the whole length of the Mexican border, but at least the United States has rid its skirts of this curse of modern times. The French League of Rights for Women has sent to the French parliament a proclamation demanding that French women be given the franchise. The proclamation declares that the right of women to vote is recognized in enemy and allied countries, and instances England and the United States. We trust the French women will succeed. Woman Diplomatist.  Denmark has sent a woman to take a diplomatic post at Washington. She is Miss Gerda Andersen, who has arrived in this country to take up the duties of the second secretary of the Danish legation. She previously held a similar post in Petrograd. Teacher-Training for Relief Society Officers and Class Teachers.  The General Board of Relief Society is pleased to announce that all arrangements have been completed by the Correlation Committee of the auxiliary organizations for the establishment of teacher-training classes in every ward in the Church. The Bishopric will take the initiative in calling together all the teachers in all of the auxiliary organizations in the Ward in order 166 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. that a class may be organized to study the simple rudiments of teaching. The immediate supervision of the class will be under the direction of the Superintendency of the Sunday School. The person in the ward best qualified will be selected as the class teacher. The day and hour best suited to the majority will be chosen and any other details arranged that may be necessary to produce the best results. Wherever possible it is recommended that the class meet on Sunday morning at 9 a. m. Professor Howard R. Driggs has written a text book, "The Art of Teaching," for the use of this class. Out of his long experiences as a teacher in the Church, in public schools and the State University of Utah, this manual on teaching has been prepared to suit the special needs of Latter-day Saints who are called to be teachers, without any preparation for so important an undertaking. The book is written by a Latter-day Saint to Latter-day Saints, and many experiences of the people in the Church are used as illustrations in the development of the lessons. This course will furnish class-teachers throughout the Relief Society a splendid opportunity to learn the best methods of class teaching, and great good will come to the Relief Society through the establishment of this course, which has the hearty endorsement of our General Board. The Art of Teaching, is ready for distribution and may be obtained from the Sunday School Union Book Store. Price, 50 cents each, postpaid; no discount on quantities. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Nurse Survey.  Early in November the Stake Relief Societies of Salt Lake county were asked to conduct a registration for nurses for the Salt Lake county chapter of the Red Cross. The Relief Society stake presidents responded as usual. The survey was conducted by the ward presidents through the teachers department and included a visit to the homes of all the residents in the county. A Red Cross band was worn by one of each pair of teachers. The survey was completed in a short time to the satisfaction of all concerned. Mr. Robert J. Shields, manager of the county chapter, was especially grateful for the work done. Fruit for Hospitals.  During the early winter months the Salt Lake county stakes and the Davis county stakes under the direction of the General Board, made a collection of fruit for the Reconstruction Hospital at Fort Douglas, and other hospitals and welfare institutions in Salt Lake City. Hundreds of quarts of fruit and jelly were brought to Relief Society headquarters in the Bishop's Building, where it was sorted and labeled. On Thanksgiving 250 quarts of assorted fruit and 2 cartons THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 167 of jelly were sent to the Reconstruction Hospital at Fort Douglas, and on Christmas the following distribution was made: Fort Douglas  250 quarts assorted fruits, 20 cartons of jelly. L. D. S. Hospital  250 quarts assorted fruits, 20 cartons of jelly. County Hospital  150 quarts assorted fruits, 10 cartons of jelly. Sarah Daft Home  50 quarts assorted fruits, 10 cartons of jelly. Neighborhood House  50 quarts assorted fruits. Orphan's Home and Day Nursery  50 quarts assorted fruits. Another consignment will be made to the reconstruction hospital at an early date. The stakes which so generously contributed this fruit are Pioneer, Granite, Cottonwood, Ensign, Liberty, Jordan, Salt Lake, North and South Davis. Vegetable Contest.  Readers of the Relief Society Magazine will be delighted to know that in the war vegetable contest for Salt Lake county our own Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, General Board member and business manager of the Magazine, won the $25 prize of War Savings Stamps with a national certificate, awarded by the National War Garden Commission for the best preserved and most attractive appearing vegetables. Mrs. E. G. Hughes of the first ward in Provo won first prize for Utah county. Millard Stake.  Through the courtesy of Mrs. Susan Thompson, President of Millard Stake Relief Society, we are publishing the conservation report of that stake for the year of 1918. This report includes but four of the five wards. On account of the influenza epidemic the Scipio ward was unable to get a report together. Families reporting, 235; value of gardening, $7712.35; chickens hatched, 8,459; canned fruit, 50,068 quarts; dried fruit, 3,048 pounds; canned vegetables, 3,338 quarts; dried vegetables, 3,543 pounds; canned meat, 886 quarts; pickles, 1,103 quarts. Red Cross work in the Holden ward has been very successful: $154.09 was collected as a fund for the Red Cross and in addition to this the following articles were made by the society: bed socks, 10; socks, 120 pairs; knitted wash rags, 31; handkerchiefs, 72; bed tray cloths, 10; napkins, 9; bed shirts, 80; pajama suits, 25; bandages, 131; pillows, 22; comfort pillows, 4; sweaters, 10; children's dresses, 85; chemise, 65; sheets, 6; towels, 48. Stake Reports.  The influenza epidemic has prevented many of the stakes from getting their reports in early. In many instances stake and ward secretaries themselves have been ill and unable to compile their own reports and it has been necessary to have them done by people comparatively unfamiliar with the 168 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. work. This condition has caused a great deal of anxiety among our faithful secretaries, who are anxious to have their reports compiled as soon as possible after the close of the year. If the situation could have been foreseen the regular time for receiving these reports might have been extended. In spite of all difficulties, however, two reports reached the office on January 14th from Sevier and Ogden stakes. Tintic and Wasatch were received on January 16th, South Davis and Tooele January 17th, Snowflake and South Sanpete, January 20th, Montpelier, January 21st, Raft River and Uintah, January 23rd, and Oneida on January 24th. Sevier Stake.  The Red Cross work in the Sevier stake has apparently been very successful. The following articles are reported: Surgical dressings, 1832; hospital garments, 1222; number of knitted articles, 3220; refugee garments, 1224; articles collected for Belgian relief, 10,055. The ward societies purchased $700.00 worth of Liberty Bonds and Relief Society individuals $1750.00. The report indicates that the class work in the stake is regular. There are only two instances where all of the subjects outlined have not been taken up and in most of the wards current events are being discussed weekly. Ogden Stake.  Every ward in Ogden stake has taken up the regular outlined work and all but one are preceding the lessons with discussions of current events. Throughout the epidemic an effort has been made in this stake to keep in touch with the sick, 1548 special visits to the sick are reported, in addition to 5774 regular visits by the teachers; $600.00 worth of Liberty Bonds were purchased by the ward societies, and in addition $6750.00 was invested in bonds by Relief Society members individually. A large amount of Red Cross work in all departments has been done and 2283 articles collected for Belgian relief. Tintic Stake.  Tintic stake, although but a few years old, is very active and up-to-date in all its departments. Nearly half of all of the enrolled members in the stake are subscribers to the Relief Society Magazine. This record is very much better than that of some of the larger and older stakes. In the last year membership has increased from 230 to 248. All of the wards are taking up the outlines including current events. The sick have been well cared for here, 944 special visits being reported, in addition to 593 whole days spent with the sick. Four of the five wards each purchased a $50.00 Liberty Bond, and the fifth a $100.00 bond. Individual members of the Relief Society purchased in all $15,250.00 worth of bonds, a remarkable record. In addition to all the regular work, the women in this stake have done their share in Red Cross work.