
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the ﻿Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 21.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1892.				NO. 1.


CONTENTS.
	Women’s Work in the World’s Fair—Mrs.
Solomon Thatcher. Before Railroads—Ellen
Jakeman. In Rural England—A Story. R. S.,
Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. Reports. Women at
Minneapolis—A. S. B. L. D. S. College Exer
cises—Dr. E. S. Barney. "Di Vernon" Makes a
Hit—The Journalist. Miscellaneous.
	EDITORIAL:—Questions of Interest. Editorial
Notes. Sarah G. Richards. An Interesting
Journey.
	POETRY:—Condemnation —Maria S. Ladd.
May-Blossoms and June-Roses—Hyacinth. Rev-
eries of Summer—E. B. W. The Cry of The Ten
Thousand—Brownlee Brown. I Want You So.


CONDEMNATION.

So she is down; well, do your utmost part
	To bring her lower, for you may have found
	Some spot they have not stabbed, and the sharp
		wound
May reach her shivering heart,
But wait ’till you are sure that all the pack
	Of loud defamers, with one wild accord
Are fiercely baying at the culprit’s back;
	Then strike your blow, while thanking the dear
		Lord,
That thou art not as she, whom all do hurt,
And point the finger at with just affront.
	We are so perfect, that in dread we cry
At others’ sins, and sometimes at a fault;
We walk so straight, that if another halt
	We cannot pass it by.
						MARIE S. LADD.


MAY-BLOSSOMS AND JUNE-ROSES.

Oh, the sweet June-time has come at last,
	The loveliest of all the year,
With its crimson and gold and deep damask,
	And pearly white folds so clear.
The long trailing vines of roses,
	Seem higher to climb each day,
While 'mong the low boughs reposes
	Bright birds warbling forth sweet lays.

Alas ! the dear time of May-blossom
	Has gone, with its beautiful store
Of pale tinted petals of crimson,
	To mingle with days long of yore.
The deep swelling streamlets of water,
	Give place to the low, rippling brooks,
That merrily glide with sweet laughter,
	Through valleys of cool, shady nooks.

Fair May, bright bower of beauty,
	Fresh mantled with each smiling morn,
Your glistening white plumage all dewy,
	A heart's tenderest hopes adorn.
Forever to me thou art dear,
	With thoughts pure that never can fade,
In fondness for thee falls a tear,
	O'er the casket sweet memory's made.

Bright June, nay, linger yet longer,
	Thy loveliness fades but too fast;
While garlands of hope and love stronger,
	Are twined for the days of the past.
Ah, June, you have stolen from me,
	What May in her beauty bestowed;
Yet of all the fair months I see,
	To me, both are brightest and best.
							HYACINTH.


REVERIES OF SUMMER.

Oh bright and glowing summer, thy beauty
	and thy bloom
Bring memories of by-gone days, all laden with
	perfume
Of things most choice and sweet—and fragrant
	wild-wood flowers,
Which erst I fondly gathered in thy delightful
	hours.
The forest paths I wander’d in, beside the rip-
	pling stream,
Methinks I tread again in youth’s midsummer
	dream;
And all around me voices are whisp’ring in the
	trees,
And thrill me with the chorus they waft upon the
	breeze:
And the dear familiar scenes of happy “long
	ago”
Drift back again and mingle with fancy’s dreamy
	show,
And the shadows of the days that now are mine
	no more
Fall thickly all around me, and my heart is gush-
	ing o’er
With olden time remembrances of those bright
	summer hours,
When pleasure held her riot ’mid nature’s sunny
	bow’rs.
And musing on the past and pondering o’er and
	o’er
I catch a fleeting glimpse of the lov'd ones gone
	before;
They grace my summer reveries with sweetness
	most complete,
As indistinct they linger where we were wont to
	meet.
The magic of their voices can never be forgot.
For still their echoes vibrate round the old familiar
	spot.
The golden wealth of nature that comes with
	summer days
Is like life’s brilliant summer that falls ’mid pleas-
	ant ways,
As summer’s sun doth ripen the fruit and golden
	grain,
And spread its treasures richly o’er garden, valley
	plain,
So should our life’s full summer at its meridian
	height,
Ripen a golden harvest, which may the soul de-
	light—
Filling her garners richly with most abundant
	store !
Of knowledge, love and wisdom and good deeds
	teeming o’er.
								E. B. W.


WOMEN'S WORK IN THE WORLD'S
			FAIR.

		MRS. SOLOMON THATCHER JR.

	[Address delivered in large Tabernacle in 
Salt Lake City, Sunday evening June 5,
1892.]
Ladies and Gentlemen of Utah and Salt 
		Lake City:

	I wish to assure you that I appreciate very
much the compliment of this invitation to
be present and speak to you of a matter that
lies very near to my heart. I am exceed-

[Column 2]
ingly interested in the association that is
holding its grand meeting in this Taber-
nacle for the last few days. If there is any-
thing that is better for young people than
another thing after religion, it is the love of
education and culture. I am glad to know
that these young men and women are sys-
tematically pursuing a course of education
and growth. Education is the great lever
that shall lift the world from vice and deg-
radation. Education is the great key that
shall unlock the storehouse of nature, and
shall put into your hands as willing slaves,
the great powers of nature. Education is
the sunlight that shall drive away the mists
and miasmas of ignorance, vice and super-
stitution. Education is the sunlight that
shall show to you the face of your God, and
lead you to know his love for you.
	I should hesitate to occupy your time and
trust my ability to interest you, did I not
feel that every man and woman should be
interested in everything that tends to show
God's goodness to us, that tends to elevate
manhood and womanhood. We are ap-
proaching a great epoch in the history of
civilization. Already the great nations of 
the earth and the islands of the sea are col-
lecting their treasures,and bringing them up
to show as a thank offering to God for His
goodness and mercy to all. Already upon
the shores of Lake Michigan, a few miles
from the hum and the noise of a million and
a half of people, a city is approaching com-
pletion, a city of buildings of magnificient
proportions, of great architectural beauty.
These palaces are to be the storehouses in
which shall be placed the offerings of men, 
the products of the brain, of the heart, and
of the hand of man, products of the sea and 
of the soil and of the mine. Already the
plowshare has turned the soil that shall
produce exposition grain; already the forge
and smelting furnace are smelting exposition
ore; already the choicest products of your
quarries are being worked by skillful men to
show to the world your marbles, your gran-
ites, and your precious stones; already the
spinners are weaving their beautiful fabrics
to delight your eyes.
	No money has been spared in this under-
taking. The president of the directory told 
me just before I left home,that it would be
very difficult to obtain in all the world
enough insurance to cover the value of the
wonderful products that shall be on exhibi-
tion at this exposition. 67 countries have
already accepted invitations to participate.
Japan, that far away country in Asia, has
appropriated $600,000 with which to show
the value of her products. The State of
Illinois has appropriated $800,000 with
which to properly set forth her resources.
	I should be glad to talk to you longer and
tell you of the general work of the fair, but
I want to talk to you of what the women
are doing in the fair. Some little time after
Congress had decided to celebrate the quad-
ricentennial of the discovery of America,and
had appointed a commission of gentlemen
who formed their plans on a comprehensive
scale, a large party, stimulated, no doubt by
a patriotic woman, introduced a bill into
Congress, asking for the appointment of a
board of women, to serve on all departments


[Column 1]
of the board where women’s work was ex-
pected, and in the performance of other
work. This was a great step in advance for
women; and it is the first time in the history
of our country that women have been invit- 
ed to participate in a department of our
country’s government. This was the result
of the sensible ideas of women. The mem-
bers of the commission, as soon as this
board was appointed, vied with each other
in their desires to give us great opportunities
and full scope. They put into our hands
all the interests of women all over the world.
They have made us the official channel
through which all women and organizations
of women may come into connection with
the fair. This opportunity was seized upon
to bring out everything that would elevate
and show the value of women in the world.
	We are making great efforts to have in
the competition exhibition everything that
women have ever done. It will be a great
surprise to these gentlemen to find how
generally women have occupied all positions,
if I mentioned to you that we have dis-
covered women blacksmiths, women wagon-
ers, and one of the best ranches in California
is owned and run by a woman. We have
found women shoemakers, and in fact the
women nowadays are doing about every-
thing they please. We are not satisfied in
showing simply what the women in this
part of the world are doing, but we have in-
vited our sisters from all over the world to
join in this great enterprise. Mrs. Palmer,
our president, is a lady combining every
characteristic that is beautiful and delightful.
She is beautiful, winsome in her manner,
displaying those qualities of mind and heart
which should win every one. Mrs. Palmer,
our president, in her visit abroad last sum-
mer, by her personal acquaintance has been
able to interest some of the noblest men and
women of Europe in the Fair. In England
the Princess Christian, a lady of great ability
and daughter of Queen Victoria, is head of
the World’s Fair commission board of wo-
men. In France, Madam Carnot and others
of prominence are greatly interested in the
women’s department of the fair. The
French nation has appointed a commission
of women and has appropriated a sum of
money to pay all the expenses attended upon
their exhibits. Germany, Russia, Scandi-
navia, and in fact most of the European
countries have appointed commissions of
women also. Mexico and most of the great
advanced South American States have ap-
pointed woman commissions also. Last
summer a lady from China went to India,
empowered to confer with a princess of that
country, a woman of most humane disposi-
tion, who has taken a great interest in the
poor child widows of that land, providing
them with schools, homes, etc. This prin-
cess we hope will be able to induce the gov-
ernment of India to appoint a commission of
women for the World’s Fair; a most un-
heard of thing, for women are looked upon
as little better than nothing there.
	We have a woman’s building at the fair,
which was given us by the gentlemen. It
is most beautifully located, and I want you
to remember that this building is yours,
women of Utah; it belongs to all the women
of the world. As I said, it is most beauti-
fully located, commanding a fine view of the
grounds. At the right is the great horti-
cultural building, at the left the State build-
ing of Illinois, while in front stretches out
a noble view of the best buildings of the
fair. On the roof of this structure is a gar-
den,, with fountains, where the weary

[Column 2]
visitor may sit and rest in quietness and
view the magnificent scene. From the
lower floor will be steps leading down to the
lagoon, where launches, etc., will convey
visitors to other parts of the grounds; or if
they prefer land transportation, an electric
road will furnish rapid transit.
	On the lower floor of this building we in-
tend to display all the benevolences of wo-
men. We shall have offices, headquarters,
reading and writing rooms, etc., also a large
assembly room for women and organizations
of women to assemble to discuss organiza-
tions, or listen to lectures. We shall have
on this floor a library with books written
only by women, and they have written some
very good ones. We shall also have a model
hospital, with trained nurses, physicians,
etc., We shall have a model kitchen, with
all modern labor saving machinery useful in
such a place; here distinguished teachers
will give lessons in the best methods of ob-
taining the most nutriment with the least
possible expense. We shall also have a
colonial exhibit, which will show you the
methods of life and thoughts of the people
in the early part of the history of our
country. We shall have an exhibit show-
ing the advance of women. We expect to
show that women have always been a great
factor,though unsuspected, in the history of
the world. For cycles and ages great plane-
tary systems rolled through space, without
clash and noise, luminous bodies came and
went, and great comets would terrify at
times with their peculiar flights. For ages
no one suspected the great laws which held
them in space and told them when
to come and when to return. But
after a series of cycles and ages, men dis-
covered that God was back of all this, that
He had originated the plan and the purpose
and the law by which all these were gov-
eerned, and that even the flying comet was
subject to His own law. So in the domin-
ion of men. We intend to show that there
has been a quiet, but irresistible force gov-
erning the decrees of men, and softening
their harsh features. This force has been
women.
	Prof. Putnam, of Yale College, and head
of the bureau of ethnology, has had in
Mexico quite a number of scientists,and has
been making researches in regard to the
habits and manner of life of pre-historic
man. We expect to show you some very
great things from his investigations. He
has already found in that country many of
the utensils, etc., and even some of the re-
mains of this people themselves, wrapped in
the mummy bands in which their bodies
were buried. Professor Putnam tells us
that the condition of women at the earliest
time was pitiable indeed; that she was pur-
sued as you have seen the hawk pursue the
gentle dove; that she was captured and
slain, or forced to submit to terrible indig-
nities. Later on, her faith and her intelli-
gence and her gentle influence made for her
a better place in the economy of the times,
and she became the home-maker. In those
early days the women did all the work,
while the men followed the chase, or lolled
in indolent ease. And a curious fact has
been developed by these excavations, it has
been discovered that in those days the men
wore all the jewelry, the bracelets and the
false hair and other things now usually used
by the women.
	It is an astounding reflection that the wo-
men were the first inventors; they manu-
factured the household utensils from various
materials, even using molded clay and bak-

[Column 3]
ing it in the sun. They were the first that
took the coarse vegetable fiber and twisted
it carefully for their clothes, or from the wool
and hair of animals and the down of birds
made warm fabrics. They were the first
basket makers, and some of those early
baskets have never been surpassed for
beauty and durability. They were also the
first dyers, dying their articles with juices of
plants.
	I have endeavored to give you some idea
of what the women of the world have done,
and are doing.
	The board of lady managers has also
taken another step. At first no provision
was made for the very ones we love the
best—nothing had been done for the chil-
dren. The children should have a building
and the lady managers have decided to put
up a building for them. It will cost $20,000
and will take another $20,000 to run it.This
we expect to erect, and we want the young
ladies to give entertainments, concerts, etc.,
and raise the money to carry on this build-
ing. Here mothers can bring their babies
and put them in the care of competent
nurses, while they go and enjoy the Fair.
We shall check the babies, just as you would
check baggage, and you can go away with
your check and know that the little ones
will be safe.
	Then we intend to have a kindergarten,
arid we shall also have a room where your
children will be instructed in regard to the
peoples of various lands, their habits, modes
of life and peculiarities of dress; and compe-
tent ladies will take these children in charge.
It is a wish very near the heart of the board
of lady managers, that as many women as
possible may enjoy this occasion and have
the benefit of the growth and culture attend-
ant upon a visit to the Fair. Consequently,
an association of the board of lady managers
is endeavoring to construct a number of
dormitories in which women may take lodg-
ings with perfectly respectable surroundings,
at the slight cost of probably 35c. a day.
We want to make it possible for every wo-
man that can leave home, to come. We do
not wish any money consideration to hinder
them. To help them to attend we shall
have five dormitories, capable of accommo-
dating one thousand people each. There
will also be appointed another corps of lady
managers.
	There are also 350,000 teachers in the
United States and if any one ought to have
the advantage of this growth and culture, it
is the teacher, who cares for our children,
who instructs them, and shows them the
way of life. We must broaden and ennoble
their lives. We have been working and
laboring with the boards of education in
Chicago, and they have almost promised to
grant us the use of twenty of their largest
and most beautiful school houses, near the
fair, with fifteen rooms each, of thirty by
sixty feet; these rooms we intend to fit up
as dormitories for visiting teachers, where
the teachers can have a cheap but respect-
able lodging under the care of the lady
managers. All these things are done to
make it possible for you to come.
	Men and women of Utah, you have a
glorious heritage. You breathe a higher
and purer air than most of your brethren;
your eyes constantly rest upon one of the
most glorious landscapes with which God
has ever blessed the vision of man; your
soil yields most abundant growth; you are
environed by mountains with hearts of gold
and veins of silver, and sinews of iron; you
have magnificent resources. It remains for


you to take advantage of this opportunity to
show to the world the wealth and the
grandeur that God has given you.  You
must unite yourselves together; there must
be political parties; there must be no sec-
tarian division; you must be brethren and
sisters. And sisters of Utah, you must
work for your own land; you must bring to
the great fair your products and your glori-
ous things.
	You have a most beautiful site at the
Fair.  You have as large an amount of
space as Montana, Nevada and Idaho. And 
the day set apart for your celebration is the
24th of July, a most glorious one in your
history.  On that day your speakers, your
great men, will gather together, and the
people will gather around your house to
hear what God has done for Utah, and what
you have done for yourselves.  Now,  you
want to see what you can do.  You must
be brave.  You will have the board of lady
managers, and I trust you will lift up the
hands of these women, and all the women
that shall hereafter be appointed.  You
must have Columbian clubs. I wish every
one of these Young Men's Mutual Improve-
ment Associations would this winter resolve
itself into a Columbian club, with the view
of advancing and displaying your own re-
sources, and showing what Utah is.  We
wish the young ladies would do the same.
Every city, every hamlet, and every town
must have one of these Columbian Clubs.
You must get so enthused with this spirit,
that you will wish to give to Utah the
highest place among her sister States and
Territories.
	We want to see everybody at the fair.  It
may be that some of those I see before me
will never see the gates of the fair open.
They show by their whitened hair and fur-
rowed cheek that they will soon see that
celestial city, where God has in store for
them scenes and joys that no earthly fairs
can produce.  But I want the young men
and the young women to come to the fair.
You can by economy get the money for you
will find all the expenses not very heavy.
You cannot afford to miss this culture.  Do
not let your beautiful country take second
or third place.  Every man and woman of
you must put your shoulders to the wheel
and help to make your representation second
to none. I hope to see you all at the fair.
The culture you thus obtain will make you
nobler mothers and grander wives, and you
will go forth side by side with your brothers
to elevate and ennoble the world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BEFORE RAILROADS.

	Before the advent of railroads through
our beautiful Territory, when we traveled
much by team, it was my good fortune
to make an almost ideal journey through a
very sparsely settled district.
	The party consisted of four persons beside
myself and husband.  There were our two
children aged respectively nine and seven,
the teamster and the inevitable passenger.	
	There was not even a stage route, and it
was considered a matter of unpardonable
churlishness not to be willing to take one or
more persons along, if you were traveling by
team.
	We began our journey way down in the
Blue Valley country, but recently a part of
Piute County.  It is the only place that I
ever saw the sun rise on the horizon.  To
the South lay the grand old Henry moun-
tain, densely wooded from base to summit,

[Column 2]
such a contrast to the surrounding valleys
and mountains that, with the exception of a
meager fringe along the banks of the river
known as the “Dirty Devil,” are as bare of
vegetation as the mouth of a crater.  At a
distance these bare mountains look like
solid granite, but a nearer inspection shows
them to be a species of lime stone, that air-
slacks, and each rain washes a few inches of
this almost impalpable dust down into the
valleys precluding the most adventurous sage
brush from getting firm footing on their for-
ever moving sides.
	But about the journey. We were to ride
in an ordinary wagon drawn by an ordinary
team, with all the usual accessories to camp-
ing out; provisions, cooking utensils, bed-
ding.
	The first day we followed the river, wind-
ing in and out among little knolls of the
above described characteristics.  They were
of varied colors in metallic hues of green,
blue, purple and yellow, and very vivid.
So fine and yielding was this constantly slid-
ing dust, that the wagon moved noiselessly,
and the tread of the horses feet was scarcely
discernible.  So silently in fact that a team
approached us from the opposite direction,
and deeming themselves alone in the midst
of a wilderness, the gentleman kissed his wife
just as our wagon rounded a curve in the
road not three rods from them.
	Sixteen times during the day we crossed
the stream which has a quick sand bottom,
each time being a separate risk of our lives
to give piquancy to the otherwise monoto-
nous journey.  At night we camped at the
mouth of a box canon, called locally the
“Grand Gulch.”
	We built a fire, cooked supper and dis-
posed of ourselves as best we could for the
night; some in the wagon, and others on the
ground with only the canopy of heaven for
a sheltering protection.
	The next morning we passed through box
canon and I hope I shall be able to make
you see it as I did.  If the mountain had
been cracked from crest to sea level and the
wagon road made at the bottom of the
crevice I fancy it would have looked just so;
or as one of the children quaintly remarked,
“God has marked out this road with His
finger that we may not have to go up on
this side of the mountain nor down on the
other.”
	The road itself was scarcely wide enough
to permit two teams to pass each other, but
above our heads towered these massive walls
of rock hundreds and hundreds of feet high,
without vegetation, save here and there
where some hardy shrub clung in a dizzy
and frightened way to the face of the cliff.
Half way through there is a natural well, or
rather a pocket in the rocks that was full,
the day we passed it, of pure sweet rain
water, and I am told that the supply never
fails.
	Just before we emerged from this canyon
which is four miles in length,—into Rabbit
Valley, the cliffs widened out into a vast
terraced amphitheater, bearing so close a re-
semblance to the pictures I have seen of the
Colosseum at Rome as to be striking.  There
is much danger in camping in a place like
this, for although the sun may be shining
over head a thunder shower anywhere
above may pour a deluge of water into this
place at any moment. The down grade is
such as to give such a stream a terrific force
and make life unsafe.  In fact more than
one tragedy has occurred in this same place.
Just at the mouth of the Gulch is a hill that
is literally composed of slabs of stone resem-

[Column 3]
bling monuments. Some of them standing
erect and near enough to the road to be ac-
cessible are thirty and forty feet high and
almost perfectly symmetrical.  Not many
miles from there is another hill of very large
dimensions, that looks like it might be the
chip pile left when the gods had cut up red
cedar and mahogany wood for fire use, so
peculiar is the shape and color, of each
separate stone, and so uniform.
	Where ever in our trip (which was a long
one, reaching over into Beaver valley via.
Richfield and Clear Creek canyon), we found
a house at nightfall we were made welcome
and treated with the greatest kindness.
Even to our hosts rising extra early and
getting us off in good season the next morn-
ing, which is the acme of frontier hospi-
tality.  Where there were no settlers, we
camped out, knew how to take care of our-
selves (which is one of the fine arts) and en-
joyed the situation.  Space and time pre-
vent me from enlarging on many interesting
particulars of the trip, that I am sure would
strike a responsive chord in the bosoms of
many who became acquainted with Utah
before the advent of railroads.
	ELLEN JAKEMAN.


THE CRY OF THE TEN THOUSAND.

"I stand upon the summit of my life;
Behind, the camp, the court, the field, the grove,
The battle and the burden; vast, afar
Beyond these weary ways.  Behold the Sea !
The sea o’erswept by clouds and winds and
	wings,
By thoughts and wishes manifold, whose breath
Is freshness, and whose mighty pulse is peace.
Palter no question of the horizon dim,—
Cut loose the bark; such voyage itself is rest,
Majestic motion, unimpeded scope,
A widening heaven, a current without care.
Eternity!—deliverance, promise, course !
Time-tired souls salute thee from the shore.
						BROWNLEE BROWN.


I WANT YOU SO.

Deep in the cool and quiet grass
	Never a human step to pass
Bending cedars a watch to keep,
	All things wrapt in a silence deep
When through the twilight shines afar
	The pale face of the evening star,
I whisper to the grasses low:
	“I want you so! I want you so !
All through the slowly passing days
	I tread my quiet walks and ways;
I have not shunned life’s “tender grace,”
	I wear no sadness on my face
But when the twilight shadows fall,
	And peaceful quiet reigns o’er all,
What wrong to breathe, since none can know,
	“I want you so!  I want you so!”
I have not turned away my eyes
	From green of earth, or blue of skies,
And I still hear, as once I heard.
	The splash of stream and song of bird.
The way seems smooth before my feet,
	Yet in the dusk these tears will flow,
“I want you so!  I want you so!”
I’ve Wished no other laugh less free,
No other’s heart less glad for me.
And I have turned with sudden fear
Lest man should mark the unshed tear,
Or note the quivering that came
When careless voices spoke your name.
But where no footstep passes by,
Dear, is it wrong to make this cry
“Thank God dear love, you can not know,
I want you so! I want you so!
	The Magazine of Poetry,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office,. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY	-	-	JULY 1, 1892.


QUESTIONS OF INTEREST.

	The subscribers will perhaps notice that the
paper is in new dress this time and it is hoped
that very soon other improvements may be made
it is really desirable that the subscription should
be increased sufficiently to warrant its being pub-
lished weekly, instead of semi-monthly.  Agents
should make an effort in this direction, it would
be a laudable ambition and remember how much
more reading matter you will get for the same
price.

	There are a number of things to be written
about that we have not space for this issue, viz.
our California letter, visits we have made with
the sisters to Tooele, Box Elder and Juab Stakes
to attend Sisters meetings and conferences, of
Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. which
were very interesting and enjoyable.  Sisters Z.
D. H. Young, B. W. Smith, and S. M. Kimball
have been among the speakers who have been
visiting at these places. At Brigham City we had
the pleasure of seeing and hearing the Primary
children at a Concert in the Opera House which
was a very grand affair, and would have been a
credit even to young people.  The little folks did
some fine acting. At Nephi we also had a woman
suffrage meeting in addition to the womens’ Con-
ferences. Sister M. Isabella Horne has been
traveling through parts of this Stake holding
meeting in the various wards, South Cotton Wood
Mill Creek, Taylorsville and others.

	There are so many subjects pending one might
with propriety treat upon editorially that it is
difficult to decide which is the most important, or
what would be the most acceptable.  The great
question of the next President of the United States
is to most people, a very exciting public matter,
and in the two great conventions as well as in the
prohibition Convention, in Cincinnati the pub-
lic sentiment of the parties has been made appar-
ent, or one might say party spirit has at least been
exhibited, however all things considered every-
thing passed off as well as could be expected and
even more harmoniously than might have been
thought judging by appearances.  So far so good,
but the end is not yet reached, but for the good
name of our great Republic it is to be hoped
peace and good order may be maintained and a
disposition to bear dissappointment bravely if on
the losing side.  Women are as deeply interested
in this grave national matter as men can possibly
be and have as much or more at Stake. It re- 
mains to be proven what either party will do for
women.  Miss Anthony has considerable influence
with the Republican party, but whether it is suffi-
cient even with all her ablest co-workers and the
whole association of the N. A. W. S.  A. to pro-
duce any positive effect, or radical change it is
impossibly to say.  One fact however is well-

[Column 2]
known that the woman suffrage cause is growing
in popularity every day, and that alone is suffi-
cient indication of its ultimate success.

	The Old Folks Excursion to Payson on Wed-
nesday June 29th, was the largest and one of the
most plesant “outs” they have ever enjoyed.
We intend to give it somewhat in detail in our
next issue of the paper, but as copy was just about
all in before it took place, we can only make
brief mention of it here.  It is certainly a happy
occasion for the aged who have little
opportunity for pleasure and it is very noticable
that they look forward to it with a happy antici-
pation each succeeding year. Surely those who
give of their means to this benevolent enterprise
must feel abundantly blest in return in witnessing
the happiness they bestow upon the aged infirm
and comparatively helpless who are slowly but
surely descending the hill of life. The D. &R. G.
railway people have been most magnanimous
in placing their cars and engine at the disposal of
the Old Folks Committee too much cannot be
said in their praise, and this time a larger com-
pany went out than ever before one thousand
people over seventy years old were aboard the
train at the time of reaching Payson some of
them were taken on at different stations on the
route.  The good people of Payson were more
than hospitable, they were magnanimously gen-
erous in their preparations to entertain the vet-
erans, and carriages and teams were in waiting
on the arrival of the train, bands of music playing,
and for those who chose to walk, sweet fresh hay
had been spread all the way from the depot to the
grove which was soft and fragrant.  Sunday School
children with flags and banners lined the entire
distance, and when the grove was reached the
long tables spread with the bounties of the earth
and every delicacy of the season were in waiting
young men and maidens with dainty white caps
and aprons, ribbons etc., displaying the national
colors vied with each other in attendance upon the
party.  The flags, banners and festooning with
bunting, tents and stands for the speakers at the
grove gave the whole affair the appearance of an
out-door banquet and such indeed it was.
	These excursions are of all nationalities and
creeds, and irrespective of race or color. It has
become an annual custom and one that seems
likely to survive for the young people growing up
in our midst enter into the spirit of it, and will as-
surredly perpetuate the practise when those who
inaugurated it shall have passed away.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Mrs. Susa Young Gates, daughter of the late
President Brigham Young, and editor of the
Young Woman's Journal, left this City June 16,
enroute for Boston or rather Cambridge to take a
summer course of instruction in literature at
Harvard College.
	A VERY pretty gift and much appreciated was
that of a box of pressed ferns and sea-weed from
the Sandwich Islands and the box contained
unique Relief Society badges, such as were worn
by the native sisters there on Jubilee Day, March
17.  The badges were for Zina D. H. Young and
her Counselors including one for the editor.  It
was a very pretty remembrance of their sisters
far away.
	We acknowledge with grateful thanks the gen-
erous gifts of bouquets of choice flowers, some
from the garden, some from the mountain side,
some from the wildwood, all beautiful and speak-
ing in tender but silent language of friendship and
affection.  In trying to recall the-givers of these
testimonials of love, we remember Minnie
Christenson, Jane Cowen, Betsy Glover, James
Dwyer, and some from unknown sources, but we
prize them all.


THIS seems to be a season of recreation and
enjoyment, lawn fetes, picnics in the cañons, ex-
cursions here and there; lake bathing and all sorts
of summer festivities are being indulged in by
old and young; the city never presented a finer
appearance, the June roses have been more
plentiful than ever; and it does seem indeed a
delightful pleasure to have a profusion of flowers.
In the country too vegetation though late gives
promise of a plentiful harvest, and everywhere
around peace and plenty smile upon the people.
	MRS. Amelia F. Young returned about a week
ago from abroad, where she has been making
quite an extended tour on the continent and in
Great Britain, having been absent more than a
year, and during that time sojourned in several of
the large cities long enough to visit the most at-
tractive places of interest. Like most travelers
Mrs. Young seems to have been best pleased with
Paris, though she has enjoyed being in and sight-
seeing London, also Berlin, Berne, and many other
cities as well as those not quite so famous. Mrs.
Young is looking remarkably well and her wel-
come home was most cordial, for she is sincerely
beloved and greatly admired by her friends in
Utah.
	THERE seems to be a positive movement now
regarding representation for Utah at the World’s
Fair in Chicago. We hear of plans for the build-
ing, and as we have repeatedly heard a beautiful
site has been assigned to this Territory, it is but
natural to think a handsome building will be
erected thereon.  A Committee of ladies has
been appointed and will doubtless commence
work in their department of the undertaking
right away. The ladies are Mrs. F. S. Richards
of Salt Lake, President, Mrs. F. D. Richards of
Ogden, Vice President, Mrs. J. N. Dart, Salt
Lake, Mrs. Geo. Thatcher, Logan, Mrs. Electa
Bullock, Provo, Miss May Preston is Secretay of
the Board.  The committee of ladies are
well qualified for the positions to which they are
called, and it is hoped they will have the support
and influence necessary to success, from the
gentlemen of the committee and the people at
large.


SARAH G. RICHARDS
	One by one are being gathered home into the
higher spiritual life beyond, those who have as-
sisted in laying the foundations broad and deep
and strong, of the Latter-day work in this dispen-
sation.  Mrs. Richards whose demise we here re-
cord was one of the early converts to the Gospel
in England.  A woman of rare attainments, and
of the most sensitive and refined nature.  Modest
and unassuming, she devoted herself exclusively
to her family and a few choice friends.
	She loved the truths of heaven as revealed in
this day and age of the world and was ready to
make any sacrifice for the cause she embraced with
all her heart.  Dr. Levi Richards husband of the
deceased lady died in 1876, and now they have
doubtless been united where there will be no
more pain or parting forevermore.  One son Levi
Willard Richards survives them, his mother was
no more devoted to him, than he was solicitous
for her welfare and care while she was living.  A
more extended notice of her life and death will be
given at another time.  She departed in peace
with her son, his wife and other dear ones around
her bedside and so calm and serene was her de-
parture that those who were near could scarcely
believe it was possible the beautiful spirit had
fled.  Her death occurred in the afternoon of
Tuesday June 7, 1892 at her residence in the 20th
Ward of this City.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord yea,
from henceforth, they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			5


[column 1]
AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.
	The comforting addresses by President F. A.
Hammond and others at the funeral of Brother
Swan were consoling in their nature, and calcu-
lated to allay the excess of grief which up to that
time was very distressing.
	After the services were over the cortege wound
its way to the burial-place which is situated on a 
high bluff or mountain top a beautiful resting
place for the dead, it being the season of wild
flowers made the appearance of the cemetery 
still more attractive.
	The next day, which was the regular monthly
fast meeting, the brethren and sisters convened 
at the residence of Sister Lydia Taylor, for al-
though there is a meeting house at La Platta
nearly finished, yet on account of the high winds
it was considered wisdom to meet in a private
house until the windows were all in, and the 
building quite secure.  The meeting was well at-
tended the large room being well filled and a 
lively spirited time was enjoyed by all present.
	In the afternoon of the same day May 5th, the 
Relief Society of the La Platta branch of Burnham
ward was fully organized by President Hammond
and the local authorities, Mrs. Lydia Taylor
President; the names of all the officers will appear
in a future number.
	Friday morning, May 6th, about 8 a. m. we
went on our journey, we were in sight of the San
Juan river, for a long distance the country on both 
sides of the river was settled by enterprising
colonizers, who had built substantial houses some
of them quite smart in appearance, excellent
fences and the gardens under fine cultivation;
immense tracts of land sown with wheat just
showing itself above the ground gave promise of 
an abundant harvest.  About noon camped,
rested our horses, and lunched in a cosy nook be-
tween the mountains, afterwards drove on to a 
good camping ground for the night; we rose
early and drove twelve miles to Cherry Creek be-
fore breakfast, which we partook of under an im-
mense pine tree; then pursued our way through
dense forests of cedar and pine; the road being
very dangerous we had to observe a great deal of
caution, until we passed a long and precipitous
dugway cut on the side of a mountain, after
which the roads were better until we arrived at
Mancos, which is a ward of magnificent distances
being fifteen miles in length; there we were
pleased to hear the welcome sound of the rail-
road whistle for the first time since leaving the
D. and R. G. R. R. at Thompson's Springs on 
our journey.  A few miles further we reached the
residence of Bishop Halls where we recieved a
most cordial welcome from the Bishop and his
interesting wife who is the daughter of President
Hammond, her younger sister, a charming girl
resides with her, and she has also a little daughter 
eighteen months old.
	Here we enjoyed a resting place and felt suf-
ficiently refreshed in the morning to attend Sun-
day School in company with the Bishop and
family also President Hammond and wife, a long
distance away; the meeting house is quite a credit
to the settlement, and they have a good organ,
Mrs.  Halls performs the part of the organist, the
school is well conducted, children orderly and a 
large attendance.  On account of being so far 
from the Bishop's a number of us had our lunch
on the porch of the meeting house.
	At 2 p. m. the regular Sunday services were
held, President Hammond occupying a part of the 
time; Sister Freeze and myself each made a brief 
address.
	Monday morning we met with the Primary in
the meeting house, heard their exercises which
were nicely rendered, and each of us gave a few
words of encouragement to the little folks; they
were a fine lot of healthy looking children, a 
credit to any community.  At 2 p. m. had quite

[column 2]
an interesting time in meeting with the members 
of the Relief Society and becoming acquainted 
with the sisters who expressed themselves as
much gratified by our visit and teachings.
	The next morning was the meeting of the Y. L.
M. I. A. a fine intelligent gathering of young
ladies, who though living in an isolated part of 
the country seemed to be well posted on the 
questions of the day, and on general subjects of 
information; we had an excellent time with them
and enjoyed their society very much.
	After resting for a day or two we visited Mrs.
Dunton the President of the Relief Society, who
lives seven miles from Mancos up in the moun-
tains in a most beautiful locality among timber,
her farm being a plateau of one hundred and
sixty acres almost surrounded by a forest, there
is a delicious spring of water near the residence,
and all the farm not under cultivation covered
thick with lovely wild flowers.  Some of the 
young girls went on a picnic excursion up in the
mountains near Mancos, and found a hundred and
twenty varieties of beautiful wild flowers At Mrs.
Dunton's we had a delicious grouse for dinner
cooked in regular English style, found near her
own house, which we enjoyed with a relish.  The
road going and coming was exceedingly rough;
composed of rocks in every shape, form and size
imaginable; which we got over, as Sister Eliza used
to say with a few "healthy jolts."  The day had
been a very fine pleasant one in every  particular
and we are likely to remember the delightful
scenery, and the picturesque little home "in the 
clearing" so to speak, where industry and thrift
have made beautiful "a waste place in the
desert."
	Success to the perseverance and pluck of such
women citizens, they ought to have the right of 
suffrage, they richly deserve it.
			[To be continued]


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
			XVI.

	Lord Walton was deeply impressed with
the manner and appearance of Miss Conway;
he had heard of her through the family so-
licitor, but after seeing and hearing her, he
felt, "the half had not been told."
	Then too Miss Conway had improved
greatly since coming to the castle; the res-
ponsibility that had come to her in the po-
sition of hostess gave altogether more ease
and calmness to her general demeaor; nat-
urally she was a lady, yet  unaccustomed to
the society of people of rank, and therefore
she had manifested a hesitancy and apparent
dread of meeting people, that wore off as
from time to time she was brought in con-
tact with distinguished persons.  Her home
life had formerly been quiet, and the eti-
quette and usages of society she only knew
through the teaching of others; but these
matters require practical application, and
few people indeed, however bright and well
read they may be, have sufficient native
grace, courtesy and tact to feel perfectly
serene in the company of those who have
been trained from infancy in the smallest
details of receiving, entertaining and those
numberless ceremonies that must be observ-
ed in the "best society."
	Miss Conway was one in a thousand, and
every one who came into her presence felt
her superiority, though often unable to des-
cribe the why or wherefore.
	It was this fact that Lord Walton had re-
alized, and he was almost self-condemned
when conversing with her about Maitland.
With truly characteristic dignity she told
the story of Maitland’s attachment to Lady 
Anna with which the reader is already ac-
quainted.
	Miss Conway did not leave him in the
dark in regard to the impulsiveness of his
son, for she observed by the drift of his re-
marks that he inclined to the belief that her
cousin had been most infatuated, in fact had
set a trap to catch his son by her wiles, in-
trigue and artifice.
	It roused her womanly reserve to a pitch
of enthusiasm she had not believed herself
capable of feeling, and it greatly pleased Dr.
Bland, who saw that she was capable of
becoming a very queen in power, and deter-
mination when opposed or misunderstood.
Royally she plead her cousin Anna’s cause,
showing how her affections had been won,
and how she had suffered through the cruel-
ty of pride and the enmity that separated the 
two families.
	Miss Conway was very loth to consent to
the meeting between her cousin and Mait-
land’s father, but after some persuasion from
Dr. Bland, who felt it might be productive 
of the best interests of all parties concerned,
she reluctantly yielded and informed her
that Maitland's father desired to be present-
ed to her, and urged her to meet him in the
drawing-room immediately, so that the ordeal
would soon be over, adding at the same time,
"Have no fears Anna he dare not be arro-
gant with one of his own rank, besides re-
member you have a brother to defend your
position, and in sober earnest, I cannot but
believe Lord Walton will be favorably im-
pressed with your sweet simplicity and in-
nocent face."
	"You love me so much dear cousin Jane
that I seem more attractive in your eyes, do
not imagine that others see me as you do."
	"You are indeed very beautiful Anna,
and must draw all hearts to you by your
very artlessness and freedom from guile, of
which the great world to which you belong
is so full."
	It was the first time her cousin Jane had
spoken thus, but she saw she needed en-
couragement to meet this man, whom she
had been so much in dread of for many
weary months, and so while she was adjust-
ing her ribbons and laces a little Jane talk-
ed on to keep her spirits up, and then they
went down to the drawing-room together.
	Miss Conway saw directly that Lord Wal-
ton was surprised with her beauty, and re-
gal manner; for unlike her more heroic cous-
in, she had been throughly trained by her
French governesses in that elegance of style;
for which French women have ever been
celebrated.  For once this man of the world
seemed really embarrassed, he scarcely ad-
dressed half a dozen words to Lady Anna
beyond the simple introductory ceremony,
and excused himself by remembering that
he had an engagement that he must keep.
	Neither Dr. Bland or Miss Conway help-
ed him in the least towards interviewing
Miss Hilliard, and when he had taken his
departure, and the spell of his presence was
broken, Lady Anna retired to her own room,
and the Doctor forgetting he had a patient
waiting for him ardently urged Miss Con-
way to consent to his wish and become his
wife.  It was a lovely, balmy summer af-
ternoon, and they walked out into the shady
avenues under the great proud elms, centur-
ies old, and sauntering to and fro restlessly,
the Doctor told over again the oft repeated
tale of love that is always sweet and new to the
blushing though perchance doubting maid-
en.  He had repeated the story so often that
one would think the girl, would have known,
it by heart, herself but she listened as
though hearing it for the first time, and cer-
tainly it seemed to make a more heartfelt
impression,for contrary to her usual coldness


[column 1]
and indifference she gave him her hand
with such a look of tenderness that he ac-
cepted the silent action as a promise and
clasping her to his heart sealed the compact
with the kiss of betrothal.  Forgetful of all
else he lingered until the shades of evening
began to fall, when suddenly Jane remem-
bered she had household duties to perform
and chiding herself for such neglect, he was
reminded that his horse was standing saddled
and bridled, waiting to take him across the
fields to the sick patient he had totally for-
gotten.
	He was willing to go now, and alone
crossing the fields he could meditate, and
feel more deeply the sense of his happiness.
He had almost despaired of winning her
love, he had believed she would turn to him
in some great need for his strong arm to lean
upon, and that she would make him happy
even thus, but now his cup of joy was brim-
ming o’er and he scarcely knew how to give
expression to his feelings.  All the sounds
of nature were sweet and full of melody as
he rode along, and he was in that mood of
delicious ecstacy that comes with unexpect-
ed bliss.
	Jane was different, unlike the placid Doc-
tor who never thought of blaming himself
for leaving the poor woman so long without
attention, he felt self-satisfied; Jane flew to
her cousin, and finding her in tears inward-
ly condemned the selfishness that had kept
her so long away from duty.  She soothed
her cousin’s temporary grief assuring her
that all would be well now, and her lover
would be able to come openly instead of
making stolen visits as had been his custom.
In fact she prophesied, though she was not
aware of her own prophetic nature her mind
was more at peace, for she had long been
debating within herself whether his love was
deep and strong enough to brave all, and
unite her destiny with one whom she had
only known so short a time.
	When Lord Walton turned his horse’s
head toward home he rode like one pursued,
so eager was he to meet his wife and tell her
of his interview.  He found her anxiously
waiting not knowing what might be the
consequence of his anger.  He came in like
one unconcerned, she rose to meet him, he
motioned her to be seated and then related
what had occurred.  That he had seen the
niece of whom he had previously heard,
"and were you convinced of her superior
wisdom?” inquired his wife, as though she
was innocent of any real knowledge of the one,
who knew of her clandestine visit to the
castle.  ‘‘I have never met any one more of
a match for me or for any other man, for
that matter, such a spirit, if she had been
the Lady of the castle instead of a poor re-
lation she could not have borne herself
more proudly.  She talked as if she were
both father and mother to Sir Edward’s
daughter,  and that cold-blooded Doctor
Bland, sat back and admired her evidently
congratulatory, while she argued her cous-
in’s cause like an expert lawyer, instead of a
country cousin.”
	‘‘And how did it end, satisfactorily it
would seem from your composure?” this
was all Lady Walton ventured to say, she
did not ask if he had seen Miss Hilliard or
her brother, somehow she stood in fear of
him, but Miss Conway she felt sure would
keep her secret inviolate.
	‘‘It came out well enough, that is I saw
this fine young lady for whom Maitland is
dying in love, though I doubt it, and yet
she is beautiful, how that old bear should
have such a delicate, refined, and gentle
daughter I can’t possibly understand, it

[column 2]
comes of the good blood generations back I
suppose you would say. ”
	Further conversation was prevented by
the entrance of Maitland, who not knowing
of his father’s visit or that he was in the
house, came hastily in to speak to his moth-
er before going out for a ride, his father
noticing he was booted and spurred said,
“whither away young man, is this the way
you come to your mother’s apartments, have
you no respect for the proprieties that you come
thus unceremoniously into your mother’s
boudoir? I shall begin to believe you are as
desperately infatuated as I have been in-
formed by your new-found acquaintances.”
   “And pray who may they be?” inquired
the young man hotly not guessing that his
father had been to the castle or knew
aught of his visits there.
	“Hold young man, show a trifle more re-
spect, I am not to be questioned in this mat-
ter, but first answer me where were you go-
ing?”  “For a ride in the open air, and to
call on a young friend who has lately come
from abroad;” replied Maitland respectfully.
	“And that young friend is a gentleman
trust?” retorted his father. “In every
sense of the word and a most agreable com-
panion, the son of our neighbor, the late
Sir Edward Hilliard, of whose existence ev-
en the family were not aware until since his
father’s death.”
	Indeed a very pretty romance, but hard to
believe considering that at the time this
young man was born, Sir Edward was dy-
ing to be revenged upon me for marrying
your mother,” and as he pronounced the
last words he looked towards his wife to see
what effect it would have; he saw she was
deathly pale, but Maitland trembled from
head to foot, and groaned aloud; sinking in-
to a chair he covered his face, as though he
would shut out all the world.
	Lord Walton was satisfied, for he was de-
termined to ascertain whether his son knew
aught of the difficulty that had created the
enmity between Sir Edward and himself,
and he turned then to his wlfe, who was
trying to soothe her son, and as though half
sorry said, “Maitland is womanish, he is his
mother’s child certainly, such weakness I
dislike, why should he be shocked, there is
nothing disgraceful about it.  However he
had better ascertain if this girl of whom he
is so enamored is honorably born; if the
young man is heir, what is she?”
	Lady Walton was too much annoyed to
reply, and a servant came in answer to her
call with some wine and restoratives, for
Maitland, and therefore the conversation
was discontinued.  Maitland soon revived
and his father having left the room, without
questioning his mother, whose heart he felt
must have been wounded by his father’s
coarse allusion to Sir Edward, and the girl he
so tenderly loved, he expressed his resolve
to take the ride in the open air, which he 
had previously intended.  Alone with his
own thoughts, he could recover himself,
and decide what to do in the near future in
this affair, which awkward from the first
had become still more complicated and em-
barrasing.


6		﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND P. A.
			REPORTS.

			BEAR LAKE.
   The Conference of the Relief Society of
the Bear Lake Stake of Zion convened in
the meeting house at St. Charles, on Sun-
day at 2 p. m. May 29, 1892. Stake Pres.
J. P. Lindsay presiding. Meeting com-
menced by singing "Lord we Come Before
Thee Now." Prayer by Bishop John H.
Hart. Singing. President J. P. Lindsay
spoke of the Jubilee which had been held
in each Society throughout the Stakes of 
Zion. She said we all are missionairies
here on earth, and there is no time to be
lost in filling our mission. No one should
treat lightly sacred things. Spoke of the
need of education and of understanding the
organization of our bodies and how to take
good care of them. Urged the mothers in
Israel, who will have to rear the young, to
gain the confidence of the children and cor-
rect them in a spirit of kindness and care-
fulness. Said that the children should pre-
pare to fill the higher offices; that they may
be more able to fill them than those who
now occupy those places. Spoke of the
necessity of being inspired of God when
chosing a partner for life and for all eternity,
and advised all the young people to be care-
ful and not trifle with the sacred feelings of
others.
   Our Heavenly Father is ever ready and
willing to hear and answer the prayers of
the faithful. The Lord wants us to do all
we can first, and then he will help. Said
that she wished the reports of each Jubilee
handed in. The speaker spoke of the
request of Pres. Zina D. Young and her
Counselors to appoint an agent, for the EX-
PONENT, from each Society.
   Stake Counselor L. W. Hart was glad the
Sisters were growing better and getting bet-
ter acquainted with the principles of the
Gospel. Also felt thankful that she had the
privilege of working out her own salvation.
Spoke of the necessity of performing good
works in order to fill our mission, and of the
importance of faith that we may be able to
please God, for by faith all good has been 
and will be done. The speaker said that all
are subject to trials, tribulations, hopes and
fears in this life, and it is worth every effort
we are called on to make to gain our salva-
tion. Spoke of having charity for others
and said backbiting would not help us, but
those who indulge in it injure others.
   Bishop J. H. Hart bore his testimony to
the effect that the words which had been 
spoken were true. Said that it was neces-
sary for us to meet together to be taught,
spoke of the blessings we receive and of the
promises God has made; also of the man-
ifestations of the Spirit of God.
   Pres. J. P. Lindsay spoke of the Stake
Fund and of appointing two ladies from
each Society to visit the Primaries each
meeting.
   Singing, "The Lord is King." Bene-
diction by Brother J. A. Bagley.
		SYLVIA BROOMHEAD, Cor. Sec'y.

			GOSHEN.
   A special meeting of Goshen Relief So-
ciety was held May 13th, 1892, in Relief
Hall. There were present Stake President
Mary John and her Counselor Marilla Dan-
iels. Meeting commenced at 10 a. m: Pres-
ident Mary Johnson presiding, singing
"O say what is truth." Bishop Wm. Price
offered the opening prayer after which was
sung: "Sweet is the work my God, my
King", and the minutes of the last meeting
were read.
   President Mary Johnson, "we have our
Stake President and Sister Daniels with us
and they will speak to us."
   President Mary John was pleased to meet
with us. Hoped we would have a good
time together. Spoke of the book that was
going to be published containing history and


Jubilee reports of the Relief Society, also
spoke of the EXPONENT and hoped more
would subscribe for it. Said, "These so-
cities are good schools for us. The Jubilee
was a great thing for us all, showing the in-
terest of the sisters in the work. It is de-
sired that the Temple should be finished
this year and it requires our mite in this.
This is a great work and we cannot do too
much good for the futherance thereof. We
should teach the children while they are
young, and be diligent in order to gain the
smiles and approbation of our Heavenly
Father. The more good we do here the
greater will be our reward hereafter.
   Counselor Marilla Daniels said: "We
have a great mission to perform, and we
 cannot do so without the aid of the Lord.
We have to seek him in our closets, for that
is the way to obtain his spirit to guide us.
We may expect trials to prove us and they
will prove blessings." She showed the dif-
ference between the circumstances of the 
saints now and those of the early days.
Spoke of the work in the Temples, training
of our children, attending to the sick, culti-
vating faith in our children. In the days of
Navuoo she said: "The Prophet desired the
sisters to pay one cent a week to help build
the Temple; the people were very anxious
to have a Temple in that day, and we should
be just as anxious now. It is just as essen-
tial for us to work for the dead as for the liv-
ing, for we cannot be saved without them. 
Let us do all we can while we are here so
when we depart we will be missed.
   The Bishop and several of the brethren
met with us and gave some good and timely
advice. Emma Jenkins sang the "Unknown
Grave."
   Louisa Taylor knew this was the true
work. Spoke of her early days and the
blessings of the Relief Society. Sarah Rob-
erts was thankful to be a member of the 
Church and hoped to be able to keep the
commandments of God. President Johnson
said "our time had been well spent we would
meet again in the afternoon."
   Singing, "May we who know the joyful 
sound." Benediction pronounced by Elder
Wm. Finch.
   Afternoon services were similar to the
morning meeting. The stake presidency
spoke of the good we could do to the sick
and the blessings we were enjoying. Pres-
ident Johnson and Counselors Ellison and
Gourley and Mary Dodds with some more
of our brethren and sisters gave good and
timely advice. The necessity for a suffrage
association was discussed at some length but
as Sister Bullock did not come we were not
organized. 	
			LOUISA TAYLOR, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMEN AT MINNEAPOLIS.
	The women who were present as alter-
nates at the Republican convention at Min-
neapolis were naturally the observed of all
observers. They seem to have borne the
observation well. Men from various parts
of the country have expressed, in a manner
at once pleasant and amusing, their surprise
to find these Wyoming women very much
like other women, good-looking, well-dress-
ed, lady-like and amiable, not perceptibly
"unsexed" in any way by the exercise of
suffrage.
	The ladies have, of course, been repeat-
edly questioned as to the working of woman
suffrage in Wyoming, and have had to ex-
plain over and over that it has created no
soul-harrowing revolution, no subversion of


the foundations, no antagonism between
men and women. "The men of Wyoming
were as desirous for us to attend the conven-
tion as the women," said Mrs. Cora G. Car-
leton, of Hilliard, Uinta Co. "It is the fun-
niest thing in the world to come east and
notice the classification of sex. We should
never know in public life that there was
such a difference. For twenty years Wyom-
ing has enjoyed woman suffrage, and the
women have voted as naturally as they have
fulfiled any of the duties of life. There is
never anything disagreeable connected with
going to the polls. The right is exercised
freely, as a matter of course. Did you
know," added she, "that there are men in
my State ranging from twenty to seventy
years in age, who, having lived in the Ter-
ritory all their lives, never voted for a Pres-
ident? Yet all of the women who are twen-
ty-one will cast a vote at the same time they
do in November. We all trust and hope it
will be for Harrison."
	Mrs. Theresa A. Jenkins, of Cheyenne,
who was greeted with cheers at the stations
all along the route, is reported as saying:
"I am for Harrison. It was the Harrison
administration that made us a State, and
therefore we Wyoming women are loyal to
the President. I have no vote in the con-
vention. I am here only by the courtesy of
the State, and by the withdrawal of one
county delegate. Although I do not have
a vote, yet many of the famous wire-pullers,
feeling that by the uniqueness of the position
I might be able to shape public opinion to
some extent, have tried to influence me; but
they have found that neither money nor
position can tempt a woman to swerve from
her political principles. I am for Harrison
first, last and all the time. Mrs. Harrison
believes in woman suffrage and is loyal to
all women, and she is just the woman we
want in the White House."
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, president of the
National-American W. S. A., was granted
a hearing before the committee on resolutions.
She presented the memorial published in an-
other column, and spoke earnestly for the
adoption of a woman suffrage plank. A
number of memorials asking for a suffrage
plank were presented to the committee on
resolutions, and were widely circulated by
the press.
		A. S. B.
	Woman's Journal:


The National Editorial Association, at its
recent annual meeting in San Francisco, de-
cided henceforth to exclude from member-
ship all "class" Press Associations. This
rules out all the Women's Press Associations.
If a society composed exclusively of women
is a "class" association, a society composed
exclusively of men is equally so. To be
consistent, the National Editorial Associ-
ation ought to exclude all State Press As-
sociations that do not admit women to mem-
bership.—Ex.


L. D. S. COLLEGE EXERCISES.

	I visited the Latter-day Saints College to
hear the closing exercises of this year, and
from the sublime address delivered by one of
the graduates, Philip S. Maycock, I send you
an extract which you will I trust please give
place in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	"I wish to remark in passing that,in represent-
ing the graduates on this memorable occasion, I
have the honer of representing almost as many
ladies as gentlemen. She has demonstrated


her capacity of entering the ranks of the
teachers' profession, and keeping there an hon-
ored place.
	She has shown that she is as competent of
moulding the plastic mind of the child, as are
the members of the sterner sex, nay, even
more competent. In this college, at least, she
long ago dissipated that fallacious claim of
man's intellectual superiority over woman; for
she has indisputably proven that, under the
same school conditions, her intellectuality out-
shines that of man."
	"Mrs. Charlotte Emerson Brown in her
biennial address, outlines the work and pro-
gress of the last two years. She said there is
no longer any doubt as to the wisdom of this
movement. Our movement is a necessary part
of the new civilization. Ours is an age of
intellect and of critical investigation. Every
question is being analyzed and resolved into
its elements The axe is at the root of every
tree.
	"Theology, civil government, questions in
sociology, all of vast practical movement, are
under investigation as unsolved problems. In
this search for new truth and readjustment of
human relations, woman comes to the front
and is an important factor. Woman's clubs
are a great educator and developer of woman's
powers for the new position they are called to
occupy. They inspire high aims, broader in-
formation, teach women to think and to ex-
press thought clearly on paper, or in extempor-
aneous addresses. They are teachers in parlia-
mentary usage; they are schools for post
graduates,and they help women to know them-
selves and their own capabilities."
		DR. E. S. BARNEY.
	June 1st, 1892.


"DI VERNON" MAKES A HIT.

	A member of our Pacific Coast Women's
Press Association, Eliza D. Keith, who writes
for the San Francisco News Letter over the
pen name of "Di Vernon," has just scored a
journalistic triumph over no less a periodical
than the Illustrated American. If "Di Ver-
non" has a hobby, it is American patriotism,
and the prevention of cruelty to animals.
	Beginning with a Fourth of July article,
1890, she published a glowing article in the
News Letter, in which occur these words: "It
is treason to haul down the flag from the mast-
head; it is treason to degrade it in the esti-
mation of a child." In February, 1891, she
asked: "Shall the flag of our country be de-
based by bearing upon its fair surface an ad-
vertising device? If there be no law to prevent
it, let us have one at once."
	In September, 1891, she delivered a mag-
nificent address before the Women's Press-
Association at Union Square Hall. The per-
oration was a grand patriotic outburst, calling
upon Congress to protect the flag from the ad-
vertising fiend. This was published in the
Daily Report, of San Francisco, and in the
New York Journalist, giving it a widespread
circulation. This address also contained an
exposition of "Di Vernon's" pet project, the
organization of the "Order of the American
Flag," a patriotic legion, among the children
of America.
	At other times during the last few years,
Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon) has made sim-
ilar appeals to arouse the patriotic sentiment.
	Imagine her surprise, taking up a copy of
the Illustrated American in April, 1892, to
find a self laudatory editorial, in which the pa-
per congratulated itself that the crusade which
it had inaugurated against the flag advertis-
ing was about to bear fruit. To claim the
whole credit for that aroused Di Vernon's
sense of justice. She wrote to the editor, ask-
ing the date of the "inauguration." Mr. Min-
ton replied in courteous note, stating that


the matter was brought up in editorials of vol.
9, page 530, dated Feb. 6, 1892.
	Eliza D. Keith (Di Vernon) has dug up
all the dates of her patriotic articles, and in
the News Letter of May 14, 1892, has pub-
lished a history of the whole matter, under the
appropriate caption: "Honor the Flag."
	With characteristic directness, Di Vernon
asks: "Don't you think that instead of taking
the lead, you were rather late in dropping in-
to line?"—The Journalist.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	A noble deed is a step toward heaven.
	It is a thousand times better to suffer than
to sin.
	Afford others the same indulgence you would
wish to receive.
	One knows the value of pleasure only after
he has suffered pain.
	It is far less dangerous to slip with the foot
than with the tongue.
	Prayer will make us leave off sinning, or
sinning will make us leave off praying.
	A bitter jest, when it comes too near the
truth, will leave a sharp sting behind it.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

	Another noble spirit has departed! one whom
we had vainly hoped to keep with us longer, and
we feel deeply the want of her presence, her be-
loved society, which was ever like the perfumed
flower, dispensing sweets through every hour.
Sister Mary Haines Jacobs, was the beloved
daughter of John and Sarah Haines, she was born
August 13th 1827, at North Petheston, Somerset-
shire, England, she joined the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1853, or '54, emi-
grated to America in 1857; leaving her parents,
brothers and sisters for the Gospel's sake. She
was married October 14th, 1858, to Daniel Jacobs,
in the State of New York; in 1859 they were able
to come to Utah; Brother Jacobs having means
enough to pay his wife's passage, and working
upon the way to pay his own way. They passed
through all the hardships that the Saints in those
days had to endure. Sister Jacobs was ill all the
way crossing the plains, but she never murmured;
she passed through many severe trials, but was
faithful to the end, always cheerful and contented
happy in doing good for those around her, never
a word of complaint passed her lips; her faith and
trust in God were unbounded. A true wife and
mother in the truest sense of the term, she pos-
sessed a spirit of love and benevolence towards
all, to know her was to love her, for she always
had a kind word and a pleasant smile for one and
all, she has been active in many public capacities;
Sister Jacobs made her home for some time in St.
Charles, Bear Lake Couty, Idaho. In 1867 she
was called to act as Counselor in the St. Charles
Relief Society which office she held until 1880,
when she was called and set apart to preside as
President over that Society, which office she held
until 1884, when with her family she moved to
Pleasant Green Ward, Salt Lake County. She
has been a true and faithful member in the Re-
lief Society from that time until the time of her
death, always on hand and willing for any call
that was made of her; she was the mother of six
living children, her second daughter who passed
away some three years ago, having left three
small children, Sister Jacobs performed the part
of a true and loving mother to her daughter's
little children until the time of her demise. She

[Column 2]

died March 27th 1892, at Pleasant Green, of
pneumonia. She leaves a loving husband, five
children and eleven grandchildren to mourn her
loss, her eldest son is now filling a mission in
Indiana.

A bright spirit has flown, a loved one departed
	A gentle one gone to her rest,
While friends are left desolate, bowed and sad.
		hearted,
	Yet feeling that Father knows best.

Cold death often visits the most perfect house-
		hold,
	Selecting the dearest of all; 
None purer, not better, from out of the threshold,
	E'er answered the sorrowful call-

Than Mary,—so lovely in face, mind and spirit,
	Intelligent, gentle and true;
Her counsel so wise, that all paused to hear it,
	Like wisdom is given to few.

Farewell dear mother, we do not mourn thee
	As one dead, but gone to rest,
From thy labors, and thy sufferings,
	With thy kindred to be blest.
		ALVIRA S. HIRST, Pres.
		ANN C. BERTOCH,
		NANCY H. DEARDON,
			Counselors.
		FANNY H. JENKINS, Sec'y.


OBITUARIES.

	Sister Dina Rollins was born July 26th, 1816, in
London, England, where she became a member
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
She emigrated to Utah in 1852, and soon after
settled in Mound Fort, where she remained al-
most continuously until her decease.
	After years of faithful labor as a teacher she
was appointed on Jan. 9th, 1882, First Counselor
to the President of the Mound Fort Relief Society
and faithfully magnified that calling, always being
on hand to strengthen the weak and administer to
the sick and needy.
	Declining health deprived the Society of her
esteemed labors of love, and feeling unwilling to
occupy a position she could not magnify, she
tendered her resignation which was accepted with
regret on Dec. 28th, 1890.
	After a lingering and painful illness she died
May 28th, 1892, a faithful and true Latter-day
Saint in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Two surviving children and many grand chil-
dren, together with a large circle of relatives and
friends mourn her loss. May she rest in
peace.
			ANNIE D. TAYLOR.
	MOUND FORT, June 19th, 1892.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Clara Marshall, who departed this life on Tues-
day August 25th, 1891. Aged 49 years and 8
months.
	Whereas,—Our Heavenly Father has in His in-
finite wisdom, removed from our midst our be-
loved sister Clara Marshall and
	Whereas, —That we the officers and members
of the Mill Ward Relief Society do mourn her loss
realizing that we have lost a noble sister whose
hand was ever ready to help the sick and
afflicted.
	Resolved,—That we the officers and members
of the Mill Ward Relief Society do mourn her loss
realizing that we have lost a noble sister whose
hand was ever ready to help the sick and
afflicted.
	Resolved,—That we tender our heartfelt sym-
path to her bereaved children.
	Resolved,—That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of the Relief Society, and a


copy be sent to the bereaved family, and the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT.
		SARAH COLTON,
		MELLISSA REYNOLDS,
		ABIGAIL OAKS.


MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p m

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, millinery, late
s'yles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait, Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
RK. THOMAS

THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE.
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THIS WORLD.
Two Fast Express Tains Daily 
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER. 
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made In Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
in THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J.H. BEVNETT,
Genl. Hgr.               Supt.             G. F. & P. A. 
DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS CAS.WATER & STEAM FITTERS
eg- Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

