VOL. 21.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1893. No. 13.


CONTENTS:
	Passing Thoughts—By Camelia. Woman’s
Work on the Sandwich Islands, III.—E. D. N.
The XXVth N. A. W. S. A.	A Trip to England.
From the Press Committee—Harriet Taylor
Upton. U. W. P. Club. Woman’s Progress—
Ellis R. Shipp. Ferdinand. W. S. A.,Salt Lake
Co. Notes and News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Hail the Glad New Year.
Holiday Journals. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:— Memory’s Dream. — E. B. W.
Fancy’s Greeting.—Alofa. A Dream of August.
Tranquility—L. M. H.


MEMORY’S DREAM.

I DREAM’D of the hills and the streams far away
	Of hemlock and pine and the fragrance they
		shed,
The holiday seasons so joyful and gay
	Fair visions, bright pictures of days that are
		dead.

These come in the night-time when lonely I weep,
	And list to the wind, and its voices of song,
These soothe me with echoes and lull me to sleep,
	As I hear the soft tread of the ages along.

And the friends I have lov’d and the faces I’ve
		known,
	Grow familiar and greet me as erst long ago;
And the fall of their footsteps at night when alone
	Is hushed as the shadows that wave to and fro.

The voices of night in the winds and the waves,
	The deeds of the past and its mystery tells,
Wild symphonies chanted over the graves
	Of the loved ones,is sweeter than music of bells.

As we sit by the fire so sweetly we dream
	Forgetful of self and the things of today;
How brightly soever the present may seem
	The scenes of one’s childhood will linger alway.

The echoes that slumber’d are waken’d tonight,
	Their, silvery notes are afloat in the air.
How they ripple and dance in playful delight
	To music delicious of memories rare.

Listen! the vales and the mountains are teeming
	With melody gushing in rhythms and rills,
While we sit enraptur’d bver our dreaming,
	The glory of Angels is lighting the hills.
								E. B. W.


FANCY’S GREETING. 

In the voice of the great roaring billows,
	Rolling in from the land far away—
In the whispering sound of the palm leaves,
	Being stirred by the breezes at play—
In the note of the bird as it twitters
	To its mate that is soaring above:
We imagine we hear a fond message
	From home—a sweet message of love.

In the low, rippling song of the brooklet—
	In the hurrying buzz of the bee—
In the chirp of the cricket at night-fall—
	In the echoes from over the sea—
In the patter of rain-drops so gentle,
	Which the clouds in their mercy let through:
In fancy we hear loving voices
	Call, “A glad, merry Christmas to you.”

On the beautiful gold of the moon beams—
	On the soft, fleecy clouds in the sky—
On the blue that lies smiling beyond them—
	On the stars that are beaming on high—


On the face of all glorious Nature,
	These words to my vision appear:
“We wish you a bright, merry Christmas
	And a prosperous, happy New Year.”

Let the song that is sung by the fireside—
	Let the tones of the organ that swell—
Let the jingling of silvery sleighbells—
	And the youth’s merry laughter as well—
Let the snow as it falls in great masses
	From the tree with its branches wide-spread,
Or floats like soft down from the heavens,
	Whisper back these fond words in my stead.

May the pictures that smile from their hangings,
	Or on frost painted windows appear—
May the fanciful forms in the fire-light—
	May the rays of the sun bright and clear—
May each image—each fancy that greets you—
	Bear this message from far o’er the blue:
That we, though far off in the tropics,
	Wish a glad, merry Christmas to you.

When the gray of the morning is dawning—
	When the sun slowly rises on high—
We’ll imagine the angels are bearing
	Our message of love through the sky;
We'll imagine once more they are singing,
	And that this welcome chorus we hear:
“We wish you a bright, merry Christmas
	And a prosperous, happy New Year.”
								ALOFA.
Samoa, Dec. 5th, 1892.


[COLUMN 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS.
[By Camelia, a former Contributor.]
    Now the Christmas, with its merry mak-
ing and gift giving and glad feasting is
over and the new year with its happy
wishes, strong resolutions and bright hopes
is upon us, we begin to question, are we
better or happier or kinder; are we, what a
year since we hoped and expected to be,
have we advanced or has time found us
just as we were a year ago, with hopes un-
satisfied, with promises unfulfilled. It is
even so for mankind is ever striving, ever
seeking, no matter how much has been
gained. The sweet contentment of the
miller of the Dee is seldom if ever
found in these days and few are they, the
burden of whose song can be “I envy no-
body no not I and nobody envies me,”
yet we all think contentment is a happy
gift, why not strive to obtain it. Make
that, the new year’s resolution.
	With the first month of the year the busy
housewife is in somewhat of a quandary
what to do. There is a lull in the home
after all the holiday festivities, and it is far
too early to make preparations towards the
spring sewing. In the large cities and
perhaps in the west also during this month
very fine bargains can be made in linen and
this is a most excellent time to examine the
linen closet. Repair by that tedious labor
darning and sort over all the old linen to
determine how long it might last, before
making new purchases. In linen as in almost
all goods it pays one to buy as good quality
as the purse can possibly afford. Of course
the dainty linen with handsome enbroidery
andd rawn work are very lovely, but they
is or should be beyond the means of all,

[COLUMN 2]
save the very rich, for they are an unnec-
essary luxury and look no better, while
they, last not half so long as fine Irish linen.
There is nothing prettier than snowy linen
for the table and nothing easier laundried
therefore though the colored and fringed
borders are very attractive in the shops, it
is neither good taste nor economy to pur-
chase them, the fringe soon becomes ragged
and snarled, and even with greatest care in
combing it becomes thin long before the
linen is worn, while the borders frequently
fade and shrink. I recall a very handsome
table set with a border of fans. It was the
best linen and lasted for years, but after the
first washing it was a continual worry to
the owner, for the border was so shrunken
that it looked like a drawing string had
been run through to make it fit the table.
This lady always avoids colored borders
now though she admits all of them do not
shrink.
	Every body nowadays is in such a rush,
for it is so short a time until the opening of
the World’s Fair, and of course every one
belongs to some club or is on some com-
mittee, and so nany little kindnesses we
used to do are now neglected if not for-
gotten. And the little child and the aged
and the invalid who often had the morning
brightened by a pleasant call, a pretty re- 
membrance, an invitation to dine or
some other little attention now waits in vain,
for the thoughtful friend has so many engage-
ments and is so very busy she never has
time for anything, and yet do we not have
all the time there is and if in the hurrying
and worrying we sometimes stop and
throw a kiss, with a thought to those less
busy, because unable ones how much
happier we make ourselves and them.
	This is a time, however, when in the
course of human events it becomes neces-
sary “excuse the familiar quotation” that
all who are able should be up and doing 
and hustle up a little, so to speak, for with-
in a very short time now, the eyes of the
world will be upon us and it behooves us
all to do ourselves proud.
	We must forget now all differences of
opinion socially, politically and religiously,
and remember only that we are Americans
bound together by one great love—our
country’s love—protected by that country’s
flag. In almost every state, territory,
county, city, township, village all over this
broad land are men and women planning
and working for the great fair. What a 
glorious result the whole will be, if each
individual strives to do the best.  Such
perfection, such excellence is incompre-
hensible and nothing but a trip to Chicago
will cause one to realize the marvelous
greatness of his country or the rapid evo-
lutions of the century. 
	There are so many new books now that
all one’s time might be spent in reading and
then not the half be read, so the busy ones
have to content themselves by merely read-
ing the reviews in the magazines and news-
papers and in fact that is a very good way
to read a book, unless it is something
wonderful or instructive. Time spent over
the silly novels of today is time wasted, a


good book is always a pleasure and a de-
light and if the reviewers are just, we easily
know what books to read and place upon
our library  shelves. Speaking of books,
why not think for a moment of those bor-
rowed ones not yet returned. If a book is
good enough to borrow it certainly is good
enough to return. How very neglectful
we all are in this little matter, and yet often
times a handsome set is broken by the loss
through just such carlessness as forgetting
to return a book. Arranging the library is
a delightful occupation in the wintry
months. So few put the book back just
where it belongs and yet every one likes to
be able to find the wanted book in a
moment, for myself I like m[-] books so
arranged that I can lay my hand on the
volume sought, in the dark, and they
nearly always are. If one places value on
one’s books avoid filling the shelves too full
for then the covers become rubbed by com-
ing in contact with each other. It is a good
idea to cover the shelves with some soft
material so that the book edges do not be-
come worn or scratch the shelves. Books
if not often used should occasionally be re-
moved and dusted, and the leaves opened.
We used to fancy when a man talked about
his “den” or study that it was a place, true
enough, for books but full of disorder with
bits of paper all over, and dust all over,
and books all over, but how different, these
rooms are. I think they are the most de-
lightful rooms in the house for if one values
books sufficiently to purchase a fine col-
lection, he certainly values them enough to
take care of them, and usually the library is
the most attractive room in the house, both
for the arrangement and care of the room
as well as the wealth of thought it con-
tains.


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S WORK ON THE SAND-
WICH ISLANDS.—III.

[Concluded.]
	ON Saturday Aug 20th, after bidding a
warm "Aloha nui" to the kind people
around us, whose strains of sweet music
had scarcely ceased during the night, and
whose enthusiasm had brought them to-
gether again to see us off on our journey—
perhaps never to return—we started our
horses in the streams which formed part
of the road to the foot of the Pali, and in
ascending we cast a lingering look on the
unique little village below and repeated
our "Aloha" for its people, much to the
satisfaction of our companions.
	After going back as far as Kukuihaele
we turned westward gradually ascending
the broad plateau between Hamakua and
Kohala which rises to a height of from 1,000
to 2,000 ft, seperating the mountains of
Kohala in the North, which are 5,500 high,
from Mauna Rea in the South. The entire
scene reminds us of home with its extended
belt of forest land, through which rove
numberless herds of cattle. The climate is
also a gentle reminder for we felt quite
comfortable with our wraps on.
	At 2'clock we reached Maimea a distance
of eleven miles from Waipio, we were more
than usually delighted on our arrival at this
Branch, and our burden of responsibilities
seemed suddenly to leave us, and content-
ment of spirit took the place of care. We
had long desired to meet with the Elders
laboring on that island whom we knew
were ahead of us, but not until then was
our desire granted. Such a warm clasp of
the hand as Elder Giles always gives would

[Column  2]

make most any one forget that there were
any trials to contend with in the missionary
field. The spirit of the Gospel which
makes all men brothers can never be more
fully realized than when missionary meets
missionary at his field of labor. We are
strong believers in woman's rights, but we
did appreciate, upon this occasion, being
where there was a man to rely upon. Next
morning Sunday 21st, was the conference
of that Branch and we had the privilege of
attending the S. S. general meetinng and
Y. M. M. I. after which the R. S. con-
vened, and all the saints present attended
the meeting.
	This is a small Branch and the saints
have not been as alive to their duties as
they might have been, but the Sisters ex-
pressed a desire to renew their efforts in the
benevolent work of women. Monday was
necessarily spent in resting until horses
could be obtained to further our journey.
	Tuesday morning however we were en-
abled to go on to our places of appointment,
and after bidding good bye to those who
had assisted us for over 40 miles on our
journey, we mounted our horses for a
twenty-five mile ride to Halaua in the North
Kohala District. Riding horse-back through
pleasant scenery to one accustomed to
horses, might be a pleasure trip, but to one
who is not it becomes a very arduous task.
The scenery was unlike that through which
we had previously passed. In the place of
a dense undergrowth of vegetation, it is
most of the way barren and rocky, and rises
and descends gradually. At 6 o'clock we
arrived at Halawa tired and exhausted from
onr long. ride. Here we had the pleasure
of meeting with Elder Hezekiah Duffin and
Brother Giles missionary companion of
that island.
	Thursday the 25th, with horses for only
half of our company we started out for
Honokani a distance of five miles, Elders
Giles, Duffin and assistants, made cheerful
pedestrian companions. I can imagine
some of our dear friends at home would
have enjoyed seeing us on those little don-
keys wending our zigzag way down the al-
most perpendicular face of the mountain.
But the sure footing of our little animals
removed much of our uneasiness in the
rough descents.
	The Gulch of Pololu through which we
passed, and that of Honokani, the town of
our destination, are similar to that of Waipio
and others previously described.
	The R. S. organization at Honokani is a
lively one, wide awake to their duties and
is managed as satisfactorily as any with
which we have met, the sweet singing, by
young members of the Society as interpersed
through the meeting was a very pleasing
feature.
	We returned in the evening to Halama
and early next morning boarded the narrow
guage train for Mahukona a distance of
twenty-five miles, leaving Elders Giles and
Duffin at their field of labor from which they
expected to return in about four weeks.
	We arrived at Mahukona at 10 a. m. the
Steamer Kinau was already anchored in the
Bay awaiting the arrival of the train. A
larger number than usual was on board and
we had some trouble in securing berths, but
we finally succeeded in getting comfortably
situated and playing well our part as poor
sailors, we turned our faces towards Hono-
lulu. Our troubles however were of short
duration as the ocean was so calm it was
hard to imagine we were at sea. On reach-
ing the island of Maui Brother and Sister

[Column 3]

Duffin come on board at Maalaea and go
over to Lahaina a distance of fifteen miles
on the coast of Maui.
	We arrived at Honolulu at 5 o'clock on
the morning of the 27th, met with the R. S.
at that branch, after which we procured a
one horse vehicle and started 'or Laie,
anxious to see the little ones from whom
we had for the first time been absent. We
arrived there near midnight found all well,
for which we felt thankful to our Father in
heaven, Sisters Harding and Grace, who
had been left in charge of domestic affairs,
were pleased to see us back again and like
the rest of our missionary family, were sur-
prised to know that we had completed our
journey of about 580 miles by water, 100
miles horseback 25 miles by train and 64
by cart, in so much shorter time than ex-
pected and had held eleven meetings dur-
ing the three weeks we were absent from
the plantation. Our hearts were filled
with gratitude to our Father in heaven
for His protecting care that had been
over us during our absence. Our faith
has been strengthened and we trust we have
helped to strengthen that of others, and
that the seeds we have sown have fallen
into good ground and that some day they
will bring forth fruit that will ripen into
a rich reward forthe benevolent work of
the R. S. of the Hawaiian Islands.
			E. D. N.


THE XXVTH N. A. W. S. A.
	The XXVth Annual Convention of the
National American Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation will be held in Metzerott’s Music
Hall, January 15-19 1893, Washington,
D.C.
	This convention will open on Sunday
with a religious service, Rev. Anna F. East-
man preaching the sermon,
	Among the speakers are Hon. Carroll D.
Wright, who will give an address on
Women in Industry, Mrs. Carrie Lane
Chapman—Comparisons are Odious, Rev.
Anna Howard Shaw—The Attitude of
Women Toward Political Parties, Ellen
Battelle Dietrick—The Best Methods of
Interesting Women in Suffrage, Mrs. Lillie
Devereux Blake—Legal Disabilities, Sara
Winthrop Smith—Suffrage a Right of
Citizenship, May Wright Sewall—Municipal
Housekeeping.
	Senator Joseph Carey of Wyoming will
give the Address of Welcome, and Susan
B. Anthony the annual President’s Ad-
dress.
	In addition to these addresses there will
be interesting reports read by Harriet Tay-
lor Upton on Congressional Work, Mrs.
Clara Bewick Colby on Federal Suffrage,
Mary H. Williams on Governor’s Opinions
on Woman Suffrage, Rachel Foster Avery
on Columbian Exposition Work, Laura
Clay on Southern Work.
	Other speakers invited are: Rev. David
Gregg, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Lucy
Stone, Rev. Anna Garlin Spencer, Hon.
Wm. Dudley Foulke, Laura DeForce Gor-
don, Mrs. Bertha Honore Palmer, H. B.
Blackwell, Ruth D. Havens, Senator War-
ren of Wyoming, and Harriet May Mills.
	There will be discussions on a number of
nteresting subjects and it is hoped that the
presidents of thirty-two States now auxili-
ary to the N. A. W. S. A. will be present
and report their progress throughout the
year.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A DREAM OF AUGUST.

THE slumbrous warmth of August lay,
	O'er Autumn's gorgeous flowers,
I could not still my dreaming soul
	Had neither will, nor power,
So yielded all my being up,
	To the influence of the hour.

Fettered and bound by earthly clay,
	I've sought a higher goal,
This once, with eager lips I drank
	Light which o'er earth doth roll;
Oh "stolen waters" sweet, to feed,
	The hunger of my soul.

The sound of music faint and dim
	Came o'er the grassy leas,
The perfumed glory of my youth,
	No adverse fate could freeze,
Made gracious every sight and sound
	Beneath the Park's dark trees.

Alone and still one face, one form,
	One presence dear was nigh,
And tenderly, hand clasped in hand;
	We let the hours drift by,
Enraptured with the bliss of Earth;
	Together, you, and I. 

I did not ask, why, all to late
	This precious boon was given?
Nor question by a single look,
	The wise decrees of heaven;
But grateful, drank the one rare draught
	By that same power given.

A lily bowed her graceful head,
	Soft swayed her slender rods,
With lips of fragrant purity,
	She kissed the emerald sods,
Our souls entranced with love divine
	Drank nectar with the gods.

And I forgot that earth held graves;
	Life's desolated years,
I did not waste one precious thought,
	On transient human tears;
But in one golden sheaf I bound
	The scattered hopes of years.

That stately form—those deep, dark eyes,
	So full of love's desire;
Such love, as in the breasts of men
	Will noblest deeds inspire
Such love, as lights Earth's darkest path
	With Heaven's celestial fire.

But I awoke, my dream was done,
	Back came Life's hopeless pain,
Hot tears of sorrow and despair
	Swept down like Autumn rain.
Oh God! When free from doubt and sin,
	Shall we two meet again?


TRANQUILITY.

In this tumultous sphere for thee unfit,
	How seldom art thou found tranquility!
Unless perchance with mild and downcast eye,
	By lowly cradles thou delight'st to sit
Of sleeping infants—watching the soft breath,
	Bidding the sweet slumbers easy lie;
Or sometimes standing o'er the bed of death,
	Where the poor sufferer hopeth soon to die.
Blest beauteous sister of the halcyon peace!
	I trust to meet thee in that heavenly scene,
Where care and anguish shall their power resign
	Where hope alike, and vain regret shall cease;
And memory lost in happiness serene,
	Repeat no more that misery hath been mine.
			L. M. H.


[Column 1]

A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

	IN the evenings when promenading the
deck was out of order, we would all assem-
ble in the saloon and pleasantly wile away
the hours until bed time, by indulging in
games, music etc.
	And thus, in spite of sea sickness and
other minor inconveniences, I enjoyed my-
self immensely; never once wishing that I
had not come or that I was on land; as so
many of the passengers did and after my
week's sickness was over and I again found
an appetite, which I was privileged to
gratify by taking my place at the saloon
table, without any misgivings of impend-
ing accidents, I began to wish that we were
going to be on the water another week,
indeed the thought of so soon terminating
this pleasant voyage, did not in the least
please me.
	But all things must have an end, Tis said
that "Nothing in this world can last," and
when at about 10, 30 of the morning of the
25th, the assembled throng of anxiously
watching passengers on deck sent forth the
cry of  "Land, Land" and we could discern
in the far off distance a tiny speck which
which was said to be a portion of the shore
of Ireland, I began to think that the begin-
ning of the end had come.
	It was a sight to see the now animated
and happy passengers, running to and fro,
calling to each, pointing to the light houses
and various objects as they gradually came
into sight. Seeing them all so overjoyed
at the sight of Terra Ferma; after so short and
pleasant a voyage, I was led to reflect upon
and wonder what must have been the great
rapture and excitement that prevailed on
the occasion when Columbus and his crew,
after a voyage so lengthy and so full of
perils and suspense, were reward for all
past dangers and disappointments, by the
welcome cry of "Land! Land!"
	It was a most pleasing sight to watch the
gradually nearing hills the beautiful green
slopes and picturesque light-houses etc. as
they passed in panoramic order before our
admiring gaze. This was old Ireland, we
should soon reach Queenstown and e'er
tomorrow's sun should cross the Meridian,
all being well we should be piloted into the
English port.
	What a time it was to be sure; every-
body on board the old boat seemed to be
packing their traps, running to and fro, in
and out, up and down, their whole persons
bearing the stamp of animated expectancy,
while the stewards the stewardesses and
the waiters, seemed to be setting in for a
regular Spring cleaning.
	The passengers from all departments had
assembled on deck, and were eagerly look-
ing ahead for the first glimpse of the Tender
which was to come and usher us in to port.
	The trunks had all been hoisted from the
depths of the hold, the valises and bundles
and satchels and boxes had all been brought
up fiom the various state rooms, giving the
place rather a look of prepration for depart-
ure, and over the whole was an air of
anxious expectancy. Many were no doubt
anticipating the reunion of relatives and
friends, while many, I believe, did not
exactly know what they were expecting,
only that it would be something fresh to
them. I did not much relish forsaking a life
on the Ocean wave and in leaving the old
boat I almost felt that I was taking leave
of an old friend.
	At length to the gratification of the

[Column 2]

anxious watchers the Tender was seen ap-
proaching and almost before we had time
to realize the fact was along side of our boat
the occupants of the one exchanging greet-
ings with the occupants of the other. The
gang way was soon thrown across connect-
ing the two boats and ere many seconds,
husbands and wives, parents and children,
acquaintances and friends were industriously
shaking hands and kissing each other, each
asking as many questions to the minute as
possible, but seeming quite content, for the
present, to receive no answers to any of
them, all trying to talk at the same time.
	My companions and I, had neither friends
nor relatives there to meet us, so we stood
looking on at the proceedings of the others
and thought it a regular picnic. Finally
when most of the hubbub had subsided,
some one took pity on us and introduced
us to two gentlemen from 42. Islington who
had come down to welcome to the shores of
Britian, the party from the Rocky Mountains.
	After passing the yellow sands and
emerald banks of New Brighton we arrived
at the landing and once more stepped our
feet on solid ground. We were really in
Old England, though I could scarcely
believe it as it seemed more like a dream.
	I must say my feelings were peculiar and
not unmixed with reverence as I approached
that old publishing house and gathering
place of the saints for so many years, 42.
Islington, how many young and inex-
perienced missionaries had entered that old
office previous to starting out in their new
fields of labor, expecting and receiving as-
sistance and encouragement from its inmates
preparatory to launching out on the mercies
of a cold and unbelieving world. And I
pictured in my mind the great joy which
the native Saints must experience when
their fondly cherished hopes and desires are
about to be realized and they have come
thus far on their way to Zion.
	I tried to realize the conflicting emotions
which must have filled my own brave
mother’s breast, when she first mounted the
old stone steps and lifted the rusty iron
Knocket knowing that from this place she
was about to take what must have seemed
almost an eternal love of all, who by kinship
and association naturally should seem the
nearest and dearest. This was to be the
threshold of a new existence.
	All strange and unexplored, yet beautified
and brightened by faith and hope.
	With what force must the words of the
Savior have struck home to that young
heart.
	"He that loveth father and mother, broth-
er or sister, houses or lands more than me,
is not worthy of me."


FROM THE PRESS COMMITTFE.
Editor's Womans Journal:
	IF the persons preparing the reports of
committees and State work to be presented
at the Washington convention will write
upon one side of the paper only, and have
the MSS. in proper shape for the printer,
they will confer a great favor upon the press
committee. This committee wishes to get
out the published report as soon as possible
after the convention, and if written reports
are ready for the printer, they can be turned
over to him as soon as presented and ac-
cepted.
			HARRIET TAYLOR UPTON,
	Chairman Press Com. N. A. W. S. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3 00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY	-	-	JANUARY 1st, 1893.


[Column 1]

HAIL THE GLAD NEW YEAR.

	ALTHOUGH we are so unavoidably late in
sending forth our greeting to the many dear
friends and patrons to whom we wish to
express best New Year's wishes, yet never-
theless we feel the deepest interest in those
who have, from time to time, manifested
the least expression of good feeling or in-
terest in the work being done through the
EXPONENT, or organizations, or clubs of wo-
men, and it seems that this New Year opens
with brighter prospects and anticipations in
the way of woman's advancement than
ever before.
	The Columbian Exposition has given to
women everywhere wider opportunities, and
the women, of this Territory have a fair
share of representation with others in all the
various pursuits of life, and of work in all
its phases. And so we say it is a grander
opening for the multitude, what progress
will be made depends much upon the wo-
men themselves; to be sure there is a lack
of means, but the material interests must
be considered and every effort possible made
to show the appreciation of the advantages
given to women in this great and grand
movement which reaches all, and will be
educational and advantageous to all the
world.
	Here in these peaceful vales we are com-
paratively shut away from many of the
disagreeable and unpleasant occurrences that
are so common in many parts of the world,
and for this blessing the gratitude of the
entire people should be offered to Him, who
has guided their ways and through his
Providence opened up these valleys for an
abiding place of security and promise.
What may yet transpire none know, that is
all in the hands of "one who sees not as we
see, and whose ways are not as ourways,"
but the prospect of the completion of the
Salt Lake Temple, during this present year
ought to make it a glad and happy year for
the Latter-day Saints.
	It is an event that has been looked for-
ward to with the greatest interest for the
last forty years, and tens of thousands of
prayers have been offered up by the Saints

[Column 2]

old and young, that this sacred edifice might
be finished and dedicated wherein the labor
for the dead might be more fully accomplish-
ed.
	It is now perhaps almost an assured fact
that the Temple will be dedicated on the 6th
of April 1893, and should it transpire at
that time, the shouts and rejoicing of the
congregations of the Saints, would be some-
thing little less than marvelous, for there
can be no doubt that the angels above are
watching and waiting and rejoice with those
on earth. The people are looking forward to
this momentous event with the greatest
amount of enthusiasm and prospective joy
and gladness.
	And therefore it seems to be consistent to
say that this year will be the most important
in the history of this people and may be
specially significant of the Latter-day
work.
	No doubt many good resolutions have
been made and will be kept, and it is al-
ways good to try even though one may
sometimes fall short of the standard of ex-
cellence which he or she may desire to reach.
	In the good old days when we were young
in dear New England, New Year's was the
time of gifts and calls and rejoicing, feast-
ing and entertainments, for Christmas was
not kept there as it is nowadays. While we
may realize that, many things have been
neglected in the past year and mistakes
made, new resolves will be formed that in
their earnestness and favor will help those
upward and onward that diligently seek to
do good and to assist in the perfecting and
uplifting of humanity, and the preparation
for the great day of the Millinnium.
	And to one and all the editor of the EX-
PONENT extends "A Happy New Year."


HOLIDAY JOURNALS.

			THE DESERET NEWS.
	THERE have been a number of very
creditable Holiday papers in Utah this
holiday season, but among them all, we
would mention first the oldest paper
published in this region of country the
DESERET NEWS, which issued a special
number of its valuable weekly edition as a
souvenir of the New Year, an unusual
departure for that paper, that has gone on
in its regular order from year to year ever
since its establishment in the early days; the
first number being issued on June 15, 1850
the type having been set in this house; and
in this very room, where so much has been
done in that sort of work since.
	The New Year’s issue of the DESERET
NEWS has a very artistically arranged cover,
representing the Holidays with holly en-
twined a bee hive and a hanging tablet with
the appropriate motto, “Truth and Liberty.”
	The contents are of a high standard of
excellence and the work is profusely illus-
trated.  The Journal opens with an engrav-
ing of President Woodruff which is very

[Column 2]
true to life, and an autobiography written
in his own characteristic style which gives
much important data.
	The Salt Lake Temple by the EDITOR is
perhaps the most important subject treated
npon and is very ably written, and makes
one feel a sort of ecstacy such as lifts the .
soul into a higher element and causes one
to contemplate the grandeur of a House
built and dedicated to the Most High.  The
cut of this magnificent structure is very
exact and enhances the value  of the work
as illustrations invariably do.  The article
gives an accurate description of the build-
ing and is well worth double the price of
the magazine, for reference or to send to
friends away.
	The article on music by Prof. Evan
Stephens is one that all should read, reflect
and act upon who are interested in the musi-
cal development of the young people of the
Territory.  Prof. Stephens has spoken out 
plainly and one cannot help admiring his
frankness, on the subject for which he has
labored so industriously, and it is sincerely
to be hoped that the whole-souled genuine-
ness of the article will have its effect, and a
wider and deeper interest be manifest in the
directions he has so clearly  pointed out.
His picture which accompanies the article 
is very good indeed; "Van Buren and the
Saints,” by Elder John Nicholson is strong 
and expressive  and embodies the facts relat-
ing to that very important and most event-
ful period in the history of the Church, and
should be carefully read and digested.
There are some short articles amusing and
instructive and a portion of the Journal is
devoted to “Societies, Clubs and Culture,”
opening with the “Sunday School Union,”
giving its organization in wards and the
forming of the Union, the first work in
detail, and summing up what has been done
as a whole in the way of printing, donations
to Temples etc. and also the number of
 school teachers and pupils, names of princi-
pal officers etc. with Photo’s of two of the
leading spirits of the movement Gen. Supt.
Geo. Q. Cannon and Ass’t. Supt. George
Goddard.
	Then follows “The Relief Society,”
briefly written of, with pictures of Zina D.
H. Young President, Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith, Vice Presidents.
Next the Young Men’s M. I. A. is given in
brief with President Joseph F. Smith and
Dr. Milton H. Hardy’s pictures.  Young
Ladie’s M. I. A. written in a similar man-
ner giving some of the most interesting 
facts connected with the work, and the
pictures of Elmina S. Taylor, President,
Maria Young Dougall and Martha Horne
Tingey Counselors.
	The Primary is also given with the 
General President Louie Felt’s Picture,
Women and the Fair with picture of Emily 
S. Richards, Pres. Ter. Board of Lady
Managers for Utah, followed by Physical
Reform giving some of the work done in


[Column 1]

that direction by its organized society.
Physical Culture a new phase of work by
Maud May Babcock, Professor of Elocution
and Physical Culture, Uuiversity of Utah,
with a picture of herself. All these deserve
more than a bare mention, but that is im-
possible at present.
	"Woman's Suffrage," "Woman's Press
Club," "Other Clubs" and "A Closing
Word" about clubs are given a place in
this historical member of the Weekly.
Two pieces of music by Pro. E. Stephens,
"The New Year" and "Christmas Carol"
both words and music by the same author
"Night" by Josephine Spencer is very
sweet and sort of entrancing. "A Christ-
mas Chime," E. H. Woodmansee, very
timely and prettily written, would be suit-
able set to music, and a fragment "At Eve-
ning" E. B. Wells—a long poem by H. W.
Naisbitt, suggested by the death of Elder
David Hoagland Cannon, entitled "The
Procession of the Immortals." This poem
is very beautiful, and deserves great praise
it is certainly one of the very best of the
poetical productions of this voluminous
writer, who has done so much in a literary
way for Utah. In this connection we
ought certainly to mention, "The Ideal
City of the West"—which is full of music
as a prose poem, and is beautifully illus-
trative of Salt Lake and its many at-
tractions.
	The Hill Cumorah with the picture is
another very interesting theme well intro-
duced by Elder Edward Stevenson. Then
there are stories by Josephine Spencer. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh, and the schools, colleges
and universities of the Territory this de-
partment is under the heading of "In
Education's Sphere" and opens with our
Church Schools eloquently written by Dr.
Karl G. Maeser, whose picture also adorns
the page, next is the B. Y. Academy at
Provo with Prof. Benj. Cluff Jr. and Prof.
C. Keeler's likenesses, of that institution,
then comes B. Y. College at Logan and a
Photo. of Prof. J. H. Paul next the L. D.
S. College, Salt Lake City with likenesses
of Prof. Willard Done and Prof. Joseph
Nielson, followed by the University of
Utah formerly University of Deseret with
that very handsome building as an illus-
tration,and this series of articles closes with
the Agricultural College of Utah and a
picture of the handsome structure as it will
be when completed. Altogether this num-
ber contains much historical matter worthy
of being preserved and should certainly be
in every home in the Territory, and sent
abroad wherever possible to enlighten people
on Utah matters and the pioneer work
educational, and in other directions that has
been done here.

THE CHRISTMAS HERALD.
	The Christmas Herald was very hand-
somely got up and beautifully illustrated.
It contained many excellent articles on
various subjects of interest and consider-

[Column 2]

able on society matters, as well as musical
and dramatic. The prize story and poem
deserve special mention as well as some
other things.
	The outside cover of the Christmas Her-
ald is very elaborate and quite a study; the
photo-engravings and wood cuts are Brig-
ham Young which occupies the contre of
the first page followed by the Eagle Gate
llustrating the story of the pioneers ably
written by Andrew Jensen. Christopher
Columbus, Utah's Columbian Exposition
Building, with an article on Utah's Lady
Managers, who they are, and what they
are doing, which should interest all those
nterested in Utah's representation at the
World's Fair. There are many other ably
written articles concerning Utah its re-
sources and development what its progress
has been and what the future prospects are,
cuts of leading hotels and business houses
adorn the pages, and make it a capital num-
ber for the business interests of the country.
	The prize poem entitled Utah is very
good and only signed Frances which makes
the curious anxious to know who the author
is.
	Education and libraries have not been
neglected in the representation of important
matters and one can but admire the enter-
prise manifested in the whole make up of
this large and complete work.

THE JOURNAL.
	The Utah Journal published in Logan is-
sued a holiday number also giving the most
important things in relation to the growth
and enterprise of the country and must be
of great value to the people as it contains
so many facts that are not generally known
to the community at large. These holiday
papers have brought before the people in an
entertaining way, that will cause people to
reflect more than if written merely as items
of business. Altogether the Christmas
articles and papers are something to be
greatly proud of and should be carefully
preserved.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	IN this issue of the paper we were ob-
liged to leave over several articles, some of
them already in type “Forefather’s Fes-
tival” and the story “In Rural England,”
also other articles which were prepared for
this number, we beg the indulgence of our
patrons and readers for the lateness of the
first paper of the year, but it would be im-
possible to explain all the reasons of the
delay, though they are good and sufficient.
	A JUVENILE Operatta was given in the
20th Ward Hall in the interest of the
Sunday School by the children of the Pri-
mary Association, under the management
of Prof. J. J. Daynes, Miss Gladys Wood-
mansee and others associated in the work,
on the evening of Friday Dec. 23rd 1892.
Altogether the affair was very unique and
the children were appropriately dressed,
and evinced the most perfect training in
their parts.  The Libretto was written by
Miss Gladys Woodmansee and was musical
in composition and dramatic in effect dis-


playing talent and thought, and the music
by Prof. J. J. Daynes, was of the most
suitable style, adapted to the words and the
entire plot and cast.  It was a juvenile
Christmas opera really, opening with the
characteristic News boy and flower girl who
were very natural in their parts, then the
Santa Claus dance; dancing was a pretty
feature of the whole, and the choruses by
the children were in keeping with the
happy arrangement of the whole affair.
The band of boot blacks caused a great deal
of merriment and was quite true to life and
pleased the children in the audience amaz-
ingly.  Scotch dance by little Lucile Tay-
lor was gracefully charming.  The tableaux
were beautifully arranged and the entertain-
ment was in itself a complete success.  The
children who took part in it deserve praise
and those who trained them certainly spared
no pains.  Santa Claus coming down the
chimney and arranging the childrens, pres-
ents while the little ones were in bed was
very well done and, the waking of the children
and discovering their gifts was very natur-
ally acted.  Miss Woodmansee has shown
herself gifted in putting such a complicated
little operetta upon the stage, as well as in
the composition.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE Utah W. P. Club met at the EX-
PONENT parlor Dec. 30, 1892.  Mrs. E. B.
Wells in the chair, prayer was offered by
Miss N. V. Davis; roll called, responded to
by original verses suggestive of the New
Year.  Minutes of the previous meeting
read and approved.  Badge for Club dis-
cussed over again.  Miss Davis suggested
a native stone,each member present was ap-
pointed a committee of one to make in-
quiries about it and report at the next meet-
ing.  Miss Davis then read two short
poems and Daisy Fox played a selection on
the piano.  An original article entitled
“Time” was next read by Mrs. Phebe C.
Young, Mrs. E. B. Wells addressed the
club for a short time expressing her love
for the members, speaking of the improve-
ment that had been made and the
advantages to be gained by such associations.
She also spoke very feelingly of her at-
tachment to the old home which was about
to be removed, or taken away; Mrs. Fox
said she took the opportuuity to express
her thanks for her invitation to join this
club, she always looked forward to this
meeting with a great deal of pleasure, said
if anything should happen that she could
not attend she would feel as though some-
thing of importance had dropped out of her
life. 
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze expressed herself
as being highly pleased with her association
with the club said she had a feeling of love
for the members and would like to do
something to stir up those members who
were not very regular in their attendance.
Mrs. Phebe C. Young was in sympathy and
feelings with the other ladies present,hoped
that our meetings would not be interrupted
by the moving of the EXPONENT Office
was grateful to Mrs. Wells for opening her
house and making it so pleasant for us, and
hoped that the club would continue to pro-
gress and prosper. Miss N. V. Davis said
the fact that she was almost always here
was a sign that she enjoyed the meetings;
thought she might have better improved
the time and benefitted the club more ef-
fectually by giving it the benefit of the new
books she had read, and things that come


up in her daily life; hoped we would set
apart certain evenings for special subjects;
she very much enjoyed her connection with
the association and said that when she would
go away from Utah,she felt she would know
something of the people.  Mrs. Wells said
Mrs. C. Lousie Boyden sent her regards to
the club—one and all, had written a very
affectionate letter.  Mrs. Wells proposed
each member present try and bring a new
member next time; also that the Treasurer
(as the Cor. Secretary was not able at present,)
would send out postals notifying absent
members of our next meeting;  thought
members at a distance might favor us with
an article sometimes.  Refreshments were
then served during which time the President
presented each one present with a pretty
New Year’s card containing a beautifnl Poem
and a few words written by herself.  The
programme for next meeting, Jan 31st was
read as follows—Mrs. C. C. R. Wells
article on the close of the year 1892.  Mrs.
Dickinson descriptive poem.  Character of
short stories in current magazines, Josephine
Spencer.  Poem by Mrs. Lillie Freeze.
Discussion on Badge and Motto.  Bene-
diction by R. M. Fox.
			R. M. FOX. Sec. Pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S PROGRESS.

	KNOWING co-education to be one of the
prominent features of the great school of Michi-
gan; I very naturally had a curiosity to see what
was the exact status of woman, and consequently
closely scrutinized the situation—(It may be with
a jealous eye)—but, however I watched, to see if
my sister woman was in any manner slighted, or
deprived in any particular of privileges or op-
portunities accorded the opposite sex. Not that
I expected any very great differences, but to the
critical, I half imagined there could be found some
finer shades of preferences growing out of the
fact that man was man, and woman only woman.
	But to the credit of this great institution of
culture and refinement, be it said that woman is
every where received with the greatest consider-
ation and respect, and in all the numerous
avenues of learning, stands on an equal footing
with her brother man.
	In the literary department particularly it is
pleasing to note her intellectual standing. In
numbers the classes are about two thirds ladies
mostly young, from eighteen to twenty five—and
their intelligent discussions of the most abstruse,
literary subjects—well! at least show they are not
in the back ground.
	In the medical department about one third of
the classes are ladies—and here I have the best
opportunity of noting any discriminations as to
sex, should there be any, but to my surprise and
pleasure never once has there been a distinction
manifested, the professors both in the lecture halls
and in Hospital clinics give them the same un-
studied consideration.
	In the Law School—which perhaps is not con-
sidered so mnch of a womanly avocation there is
but one lady student in the senior class, but report
says she walks paralell lines with her legal
brethren.
	There are also several ladies in the
Pharmaceutical and dental departments which I
have not yet had the pleasure of visiting but think
there is no reason to expect here, an exception to
the general rule.
	In this connection we will quote from a lecture
recently given to the Woman's League by Jas. B.
Angell President of the University of Michigan.
In his introduction he dwelt upon the remarkable
opposition that had been manifested toward wo-
man in the matters of education for generations
past. The great Universities of the world have
effectively barred their doors against them, until
within recent years they are slightly opened—"a
small crack" as it were, giving them opportunities
in a limited number of branches. "But be of
good cheer these same doors will universally be
thrown wide open to you and that very soon.
	A few years since the board of regents of the
University of Michigan sought to compromise
this question by passing a resolution that: "There
should be no bar to anyone, who was mentally
and morally competent, entering this school."
Of course "women are here always." This set

[Column 2]

the doors ajar, and ambitious woman has gradual-
ly stepped in, and is industriously climbing the
ladder of fame.
	The first lady who had the courage to take
advantage of this privilege should have the last-
ing gratitude of all the lady students who came
after. She was really a pioneer and paved the
way most admirably.
	She was an efficient classical scholar, and truly
a remarkable woman, so delicate and circumspect,
earnest, gifted and dignified and with also woman-
ly; that any professors who had entertained any
doubts as to the propriety of the new departure,
were at once converted, for they found that she as
well as those that followed, lost none of this
womanliness that they had just as much ability
as the opposite sex, and more conscientiousness
and with very rare exceptions made a perfect suc-
cess of their work.
	Shortly after this ladies entrance in college a
circumstance occured that created somewhat of a
sensation and which was commented upon by
a number of Chicago papers. A certain lesson in
Greek was an impromptu translation of passages
as a simple exercise.
	The Prof. designated a certain passage for her
to translate. She arose to her feet and translated
the words in a clear distinct voice and without
the slightest hesitation. "Woman should not
attempt to contend with man." The Prof. not
being accustomed to having translations made so
promptly, paid her a very high compliment, and
at once begged her pardon for the character of
the text saying that he had "not even looked at
it and did not know what was coming." It may
be that he did not, but appearances were against
him, and the circumstance made for him con-
siderable notoriety.
	This lady graduated with honors; "indeed," the
lecturer said: "at the very head of her class,"
and is now a very influential and active member
of society.
	Many of the lady professors of Wellesly and
Vassar Colleges are from this school. Miss Free-
man has been made president of the latter within
the last year. Among the early graduates from
the Medical department were Miss Hall and Mrs.
Moser, now active practitioners in Brooklyn.
There is a very pleasing feature connected with
the practice of these two ladies, for over fifteen
years they have practiced together, having one
office and one horse and buggy and cooperating
in attending patients &c. and always with the
most pleasing and satisfactory results. The
recent marriage of Miss Hall has I believe dis-
solved the former partnership. A gentleman re-
ferring to the remarkable unity of these two
ladies remarked: "Show me two men that could
do such a thing!"
	Numbers of lady graduates in medicine have
gone from here as missionaries to foreign lands,
five of whom are now in China. Miss Howard,
now Mrs. King at present in Sing Sing, has been
called to attend the nobility. The natives regard
the results of her labors among the afflicted, as
partaking almost of the miraculous. Through
her influence a hospital has been erected thereby
extending benefits to many of the poorer classes.
	Miss Laura White after graduating from the
school of Pharmacy went to Louisville Ky. and
contested the right of woman to conduct Drug
Stores, she won her case and is now demonstrat-
ing her ability in that profession very efficiently.
	After the question was settled as to woman's
intellectual ability to compete with man in the
halls of learning another arose. Much solicitude
was manifested as to her physical ability. Could
a woman take a college course and keep her
health? Many doubts and queries arose even
the president himself felt fearful. But experiance
has proven that a systematic course of study
with regularity and hygienic living, is indeed
beneficial physically, and the effects were far less
deleterious than society frolics, that consume so
much of the average young ladies attention.
	The fatherly president then advised those just
entering to use discretion and not attempt too
much the first year. Take sufficient exercise in
the open air, eat regularly and sleep the amount
of time nature demands, and do not give too
much time to social life. It is impossible to work
all day and dance all night and maintain your
physical vitality. The absence of gallantry can-
not be complained of on the part of the young
men of '92. In the early days ladies were not
burdened with undue attentions from their gentle-
men acquaintances—it took some time for prej-
udice to wear away—but the pendulum has taken
a swing, and in this respect gone too far in the
opposite direction.
	Prest. Angell closed his lecture by paying a
very high tribute to the lady students—saying:
"I feel under obligations to the noble women who

[Column 3]

have attended this University during the last
twenty years. They have been an army of earn-
est workers energetic thorough and conscientious
and by their gentleness and refinement have
wielded a powerfnl influence over the rougher
element. Yes I feel heartily to thank them and
you, and I trust you will ever remember that you
are here as representatives of your sex. You are
making a record that will be a lasting monument
to your credit, and all colleges will yet be proud
to welcome you in all their various departments.
Yes they will ere long open wide their doors to
womankind throughout the world."
			ELLIS R. SHIPP.


FERDINAND.

	FERDINAND V of Castile, 3rd of Naples
and 2nd of Aragon and Sicily, (surnamed
“The Catholic,”) younger son of John II
of Navarre and Aragon by his second wife,
was born in Aragon March 10th, 1452.  On
the death of his elder brother Carlos, he
was recognized by the Aragonese as heir-
apparent to the crown, but the Catalans
rendered indignant by the cruelty and
perfidy with which Carlos had been treated
refused to recognize any further claim on
their allegiance and rose in rebellion against
King John.  Ferdinand accompanied his
father in the campaigns which followed and
gave early promise of distinction.  In 1466
his father formally associated him with him-
self in the government of Aragon and in
1458 declared him King of Sicily.  In his
r8th year he became the favored suitor for
the hand of Isabella heir-apparent to the
crowns of Castile and Leon, who at this
time was kept under strict and oppressive
treatment by her brother Henry who much
desired her marriage with another—Isabella
however finding opportunity to send a
favorable answer to the Aragonese envoy
for his master.  So the marriage articles
were signed and sworn to by Ferdinand on
the 7th of Jan. he promised faithfully to
respect the laws and usages of Castile, to
fix his residence in that kingdom, and not
to quit it without the consent of Isabella; to
alienate no property belonging to the crown;
to prefer no foreigners to municipal offices
and indeed to make no appointments of a
civil or military nature, without her consent
and approbation:  and to resign to her ex-
clusively the right of nomination to
ecclesiastical benefits.  All ordinances of a
public nature were to be subscribed equally
by both.  Ferdinand engaged, more over,
to prosecute the war against the Moors;
to respect King Henry; to suffer every
noble to remain unmolested in the possession
of his dignities, and not to demand restitu-
tion of the domains formerly owned by his
father in Castile.  The treaty concluded
with a specification of a magnificent dower
to be settled on Isabella, far more ample
than that usually assigned to the queens of
Aragon.  While these affairs were in pro-
gress,Isabella's situation was becoming criti-
cal and to reach her side Ferdinand had to
travel in disguise over this a short but danger-
ous stretch of hostile country, his father be-
ing at this time engaged in war.  The party
traveled chiefly in the night—Ferdinand
assumed the disguise of a servant and when
they halted on the road, took care of the
mules and served his companions at table.
In this guise with no other disaster save that
of leaving at an inn the purse which con-
tained the funds for the expedition, they ar-
rived late on the second night at a little
place occupied by the Count of Trevino and
a considerable body of men-at-arms.  On
knocking at the gate, cold and faint with
traveling, during which the prince had al-


lowed himself to take no repose, they were
saluted by a large stone, discharged by a
sentinel from the battlements, which,
glancing near Ferdinand’s head had well-
nigh brought his romantic enterprise to a
tragical conclusion; when his voice was
recognized by his friends within and he was
received with great joy, the remainder of
his journey, which he commenced before
dawn was performed under the convoy of a
well armed escort and on the 9th of Oct.
he reached the kingdom of Leon. The
news of Ferdinand’s arrival diffused univer-
sal joy in the little court of Isabella at
Valladolid. Her first step was to send word
to her brother Henry informing him of the
presence of the prince in his dominions and
of their intended marriage. She excused
the course she had taken by the embarrass-
ments in which she had been involved by
the malice of her enemies. She represented
the advantages of the connection and the
sanction it had received from the Castilian
nobles and she concluded with soliciting his
approbation of it, giving him at the same
time affectionate assurances of the most
dutiful submission both on the part of Ferd-
nand and herself. Arrangements were
then made for an interview between the
royal pair in which some of the courtiers
tried to persuade their mistress to require
some act of homage from Ferdinand in a tok-
en of the inferiority of the crown of Aragon
to that of Castile, a proposition which she
rejected with her usual discretion. Acord-
ingly Ferdinand passed privately to
Valladolid and was conducted to the apart-
ment of his mistress. Here follows a des-
cription of Ferdinand, now in his 18th, year
“his complexion was fair, though somewhat
bronzed by constant exposure to the sun;
his eye quick and cheerful; his forehead am-
ple and approaching to baldness. His mus-
cular and well-proportioned frame was in-
vigorated by the toils of war and by the
chivalrous exercises in which he delighted.
He was one of the best horsemen in his
court, and excelled in field sports of every
kind. His voice was somewhat sharp, but
he possessed a fluent eloquence and when he
had a point to carry, his address was
courteous and even insinuating. He secur-
ed his health by extreme temperance in his
diet and by such habits of activity that it
was said he seemed to find repose in busi-
ness.” (Isabella was a year older than her
lover—*   *   *   *   *   *   * She was ex-
ceedingly beautiful,“the handsomest lady,”
says one of her household, “whom I ever
beheld—and the most gracious in her man-
ners—dignified and modest to a degree of
reserve.
    The interview lasted more than two hours
when Ferdinand retired to his quarters as
privately as he came. The preliminaries
of the marriage, however, were first adjust-
ed, but so great was the poverty of the
parties that it was found necessary to bor-
row money to defray the expenses of the
ceremony. Such were the humiliating cir-
cumstances attending the commencement
of a union destined to open the way to the
highest prosperity and grandeur of the
Spanish monarchy! The marriage between
Ferdinand and Isabella was publicly cele-
brated on the morning of Oct. 19th, in the
palace of John de Vivero in the presence of
abont 2,000 people. After the wedding
festivities which lasted about a week,an em-
bassy was despatched by Ferdinand
and Isabella to Henry to acquaint him
of their proceedings and again request
his approbation of them.

[column 2]
    They repeated their assurances of
loyal submission,accompanying the message
with such extracts from articles of marriage
as would be most likely to conciliate him.
    Ferdinand and his consort in their little
court were so poor as to be scarcely
capable of defraying the ordinary charges
of their table. The death of Henry 4th
(which took place on the night of Dec. 11,
1474 brought Isabella to the throne and she
was proclaimed queen on the 13th Dec. 1474
in Segovia where she then resided, with the
solemnities usual on such occasions. On
Ferdinand’s arrival from Aragon, where
he was staying at the time of Henry’s death
occupied with war, a disagreeable dis-
cussion took place in regard to the respec-
tive authority to be enjoyed by the husband
and wife in the administration of the
government. Ferdinand’s relatives con-
tended that the crown of Castile and of
course the exclusive sovereignty was limi-
ted to him as the nearest male representative
of the house of Trastamara. Isabella’s
friends on the other hand insisted that these
rights belonged solely to her as the lawful
heir and proprietor of the kingdom. It
was finally decided by arbitration that
Isabella, being sole heir of these domin ions,
whatever authority Ferdinand might pos-
sess could be obtained only through her, so
a settlement was made on the basis of the
original marriage documents. Ferdinand,
it is said, was so much dissatisfied with an
arrangement which vested the essential
rights of sovereignty in his consort, that he
threatened to return to Aragon, but Isabella
reminded him that this power was rather
nominal than real—that their interests were 
inseparable—that his will would be hers
and that the principle of the exclusion of
females from the succession, if now
established, would disqualify their only
child, who was a daughter. By these and
similar arguments the queen succeeded in
soothing her offended husband without
compromising the prerogatives of her crown.
    The first years of their reign were
clouded by civil dissensions—they intro-
duced into their kingdom a whole plan of
reform—the war of Granada, its seige and
surrender were occupying the attention of
their majesties at the time Columbus made
his application to the court, and was no
doubt one of the causes of Ferdinand’s
indifference to his enterprise. One of the
unhappy features of the reign was the
establishment of the inquisihon—Ferdinand
succeeded (at the instigation of some of his
religious advisors) in influencing Isabella
and gaining her consent thereto—which is
said to be an error so grave as to give a
sinister expression to her otherwise un-
blemished character.
    Dec. 7th, 1492 an attempt was made on
the life of Ferdinand by a ruffian who
aimed a blow at his neck with a knife—
fortunately however, the edge of the weap-
on was turned by a gold chain or collar
which he was in the habit of wearing, and
his life was saved though his wound was
rather severe. His restoration to health
was the occasion of great joy to his people.
    Ferdinand was made Regent on the death
of Isabella which occurred on Wednesday
Nov. 26th, 1504. Some time afterward he
contracted a second,marriage which however
did not prove a happy one. On the death
of his illustrious consort Ferdinand may
be said to have lost his good genius. From
that time his fortunes were under a cloud,
his ill-advised marriage disgusted his Cas-
tilian subjects. His health began to fail

[column 3]
and on June 23, 1516 he breathed his
last in a wretched little house belonging to
some friars. He died so poor that he left
scarcely money enough to defray the ex-
penses of his funeral. His body was laid
by the side of Isabella in the monastery of
the Alhambra.
    The character of Ferdinand is said to
contrast most unfavorably with that of
Isabella, she being pure, constant and de-
voted to the interests of her people while he
proved himself unworthy of her by in-
dulging in many of the vices too generally
sanctioned by the age. It is said his death
was hastened by a portion which in his
desire for posterity he had taken to re-in-
vigorate his exhausted constitution.
    We naturally turn from these gloomy
last days to the brighter season of his life,
as we find much in him to admire when he
sat with Isabella on the united thrones of
Castile and Aragon strong in the love of
his own subjects and in the fear and
respect of his enemies.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	THE Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. held an
annual convention in the 13th Ward As-
sembly rooms, Nov 15th, 1892, President
Elizabeth Howard in the chair. Opened
by singing "Help the working women,"
Prayer by Sarah B. Phelps, Singing
"Awake O ye daughters etc." Minutes of
the previous meeting read, amended, and
approved. Roll called. Territorial, Vice-
Prest. C. E. Dye, and Vice Prest. P. C.
Young made some remarks in relation to the
election of officers for the ensuing year.
Territorial Vice-Prest. Emily S. Richards
occupied the chair during the election of
officers, which was done by ballot in a very
quiet and orderly manner, and resulted in
the election of the following named officers.
Nellie Colbrook Taylor for President, 1st,
Vice-Prest. Adella W. Eardley, 2nd Vice-
Prest. Elizabeth M. Price, 3rd Vice-Prest.
E. McFarlane, Maggie Bassett Sec'y, and
Lillie T. Freeze Treas. Ex. Com. Phebe
C. Young, Mary A. Irvine, Mary P. Silver,
Elizabeth McCune, Mary A. Freeze, Mary
E. Bassett, Dr. E. S. Barney.
	Mrs. Richards moved a vote of thanks to
the out-going officers for their services,
which motion was put to the house aud car-
ried. The Sec. read the yearly report
which was amended and approved. Trea-
surer Dr. E. S. Barney read the yearly
financial report, also amended and accepted.
Mrs Richards urged upon the ladies the
importance of renewing their memberships,
and spoke upon some World's Fair matters.
25 ladies came forward and had their names
enrolled as members, and the meeting stood
adjourned.
			C. C. R. WELLS.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE P. C. W. P. A. will shortly issue
an official bulletin and continue in its
monthly publication.
	Mrs. James Lawrence of Albany N. Y.
has published her latest novel, "A Heroic
Sinner."
	ELIZA D. KEITH (Di Vernon) is now the
accredited correspondent of the Weekly
Journalist of Boston.
	MRS. NEWHALL (Ada Halstead) is
dramatizing her novel, "Hazel Verne,"
and writing another work of fiction.


[Column 1]

	ALL Federal Suffrage petitions should
be sent in at once, so as to  be included in
the annual report.
	BY the will of the late Amelia Edwards
a chair of Egyptology has been fonnded in
University College, London, England.
	LADY SOMERSET and Miss Willard will
spend the winter in a Temperance canpaign
throughout England.
	THE women of the Republic have as
vital an interest in its welfare as men have,
and they should take as deep an interest is
its politics and all that advances or retards
its prosperity.—New York Recorder.
	THE 'ast meeting of the New England
Woman's Club was commemorative of the
beloved poet Whittier. Very tender, very
appreciative and beautiful were the tributes
by those who had known and loved Mr.
Whittier.
	SOUTH Carolina will be represented for
the first time at the coming annual meeting
of the National-American Woman Suffrage
Association, to be held in Washington in
January. The delegate chosen is Mrs.
Viola Neblett, of Greenville.
	THE first insane asylum ever erected in 
the Chinese Empire is now being projected
by Dr. E. P. Thwing, who, with his wife
and daughter, has gone to China at his own
expense, to complete the arrangements at
Canton.
	AT the Art Exhibitiou held early in
August in Munich, Bavaria, Mr. Whistler,
the English artist, and Mr. Dwight, of New
York, were awarded medals of the first
class. Two other American artists, Messrs
Dewing and Hassenclulde, of New York,
were honored with medals of the second
class.
	THE Business Committee of the N. A.
W. S. A. has elected Mrs. Harriet Taylor
Upton to fill the position of treasurer, Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford finding it necessary to
resign. A resolution of thanks was voted
to Mrs. Spofford who has for so many years
filled this office and contributed to the suc-
cess of the Washington Convention.
	LET every friend of woman suffrage see
or write at once to his or her own Repre-
sentative and Senator, asking each of them
to work and vote for municipal women suff-
rage in the Legislature. If this were
promptly and generally done, the month of
January might see this great step in pro-
gress taken by Massachusetts, Maine and
New Hampshire. What is needed is a
general expression by women and men in
its favor.
	MISS LILIAN WHITING, in answer to the
question, "Is journalism a good profession
for women?" says: "The journalist must
be born as well as the poet—though he be
not so rare. It requires a degree of creative
power to be an acceptable press writer.
Therefore women who ask only 'Does it
pay?' will find many questions more im-
mediately important before it will pay them.
Like all literary work, journalism must to
a considerable degree choose her votaries
rarher than be chosen by them."
	THE proposal to reproduce at the World's
Fair the Passion Play of Oberammergau
has fallen through. It aroused extreme
opposition throughout the country; and
eminent clergymen, both Protestant and

[Column 2]

Catholic, including such men as Archbishop
Corrigan, Bishop McDonnell, Rev. Dr.
Lyman Abbott, Rev. Dr. James M. King,
Rev, Dr. W. R. Huntington, and others,
were outspoken in their denunciations of a
scheme which they considered a debasing
of things holy, and the turning of a re-
ligious function into a sacrilegous spectacle.
The people of Oberammergau have stated
that they never entertained the idea of con-
senting to come to America for the pur-
pose of giving the play.
	PREPARATIONS have been made for the
production of Sir Edwin Arnold's new play
"The Story of Adzuma." It is written in
the same blank verse as "The Light of the
World." The beautiful heroine, who sacri-
fices her life to save her husband and her
honor, is a pure and true type of the high-
est Japanese womanhood. In some of its
tragic scenes, the work equals those beauti-
ful passages in "The Light of the World"
which picture the sorrow and repentance of
the Magdalene. It illustrates with close
fidelity, the manners and motives of the
Japanese people.
	THERE have been several in portant new
dramatic productions. "Haddon Hall,"
the joint work of Sir Arthur Sullivan and
Mr. Sidney Grundy, scored a popular suc-
cess at its first presentation in the Savoy
Theater, London, Eng., on September 17.
It is a "light" rather than a "comic" opera,
in which love and serious interest are
prominent, although in the libretto the
author of the "Vicar of Bray" has shown
the influence of the author of "Pinafore."
The story is based upon an historical inci-
dent, the romantic elopement of the Puritan
Dorothy Vernon, daughter of the master of
Haddon Hall, with Philip Manners, a
younger son of the Earl of Rutland. The
incident occured in the time of Elizabeth;
but, for dramatic purposes, the scenes have
been laid in the days of the Commonwealth.
Haddon Hall is still the property of the
Rutland family, and "Dorothy Vernon's
Walk," the window from which the maid-
en signaled to her lover, and the door from
which she escaped, are still pointed out.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	SARAH JANE LAYTON widow of the late
Abraham Layton and daugh er of Wm. L. and
Catherine Payne died at her home in Kaysville of
consumption Nov. 16th 1892.
	Deceased was born in Nauvoo, Nov. 22nd 1844,
came to Utah when a child with her parents has
ever been a faithful member of the Church of Lat-
terday Saints also a teacher in the Relief Society
for many years, as long as her health would per-
mit her to fill the office.  She was the mother of
nine children; seven are left to mourn the loss of
a kind and affectionate mother also eight grand
children.
			SARAH B. LAYTON PREST. R. S.


DIED in Nephi Juab County, Dec. 24th, 1892 of
child-bed fever Mercy, beloved wife of James
Vickers, and daughter of the late Samuel Pitch-
forth and Sarah A. Goldsbrough Pitchforth, aged
23 years.  She leaves a husband and two children
the youngest a baby 8 days old.  The remains
were followed to the First Ward Meeting House
by her family and relatives.
	The funeral services were conducted by Bishop
Warner, President Paxman, J. G. Bigler and
Counselor Sperry each made very appropriate
remarks aided by the Spirit of God, comforting
the bereaved who were present; and an earnest
prayer was offered by Pres. Paxman invoking the
blessings of God upon all, who are called to
mourn the loss of their loved one, and upon all
present especially upon her absent and only
brother who is on a mission to England.


The choir were in attendance and her remains
were conveyed to the Cemetery followed by her
family, relatives and many friends.		M. P.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect to the memory of
Sister Anna Winkler Anderson widow of Claus
P. Anderson who departed this life Aug 17, 1892.
of heart disease. Sister Anderson was born in
Switzerland July 28, 1812; she was a faithful mem-
ber of the Burrville Relief Society and was first
Counselor at the time of her death. Resolved
that we regret the loss of her presence in our
Society and that we deeply sympathize with the
bereaved family.
	Resolved that these resolutions be spread upon
our Relief Society records and a copy be sent to
the bereaved family also a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

	A precious one from us has gone,
		A voice we loved is stilled,
	A place is vacant in our home
		Which never can be filled.

	God in his wisdom has recalled,
		The boon his love had given
	And though the body molders here
		The soul is safe in heaven.

				SARAH BURR.
				ZILPHA Z HANCOCK.
				DELIA P. WHITEHEAD.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Disease of Women from 2
until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Three doors west of Theatre.

MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebraied LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
be country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAK CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

