VOL. 21. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1892.		NO.10.


CONTENTS:
	World’s Fair Mass Meeting—May B. Talmage.
Isabella of Castile—Phebe C. Young. The Spirit
of Criticism. A Trip to England. R. S. Reports.
Suffrage Speech—Ellen Jakeman. N. A. W. S. A.
Notes and News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIALS.—Cleveland and Harrison. Ap-
preciation. Baby Louisa. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY.—Columbus—Bishop O. F. Whitney.


[Column 1]
COLUMBUS.

BY BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY.

	[Read at the Concert in the Large Tabernacle
in this City, Oct. 21, 1892.],
So long as lofty peaks o'er lowly plains
Catch first the glimpses of the glorious light
That lumines this dark world; so long shall men,
Or souls that seem far more than men, be found,
To loom above the level of their kind
And greet the earliest rays of rising truth.
What though the shallow world shall scoff and
	scorn,
Not seeing what their mysic sight beholds;
But groping, groveling and denying all,
Save what their sires of antique times have
	known;
ontent to lie at ease in Lethe's vales,
And hating those who soar to higher things!
These walk and talk with God on mountain tops,
On sacred hills of solemn thought, and thence,
Like Moses from the blazing Mount, descend
To kindle wisdom's beacons for mankind.
Of such a one I sing; the Genovese,
World-binder, bridger of the boundless seas,
The conqueror and colossus of the waves,
Who stood on meditation's starry height,
Above the clouds that canopied the age,
And looked upon the earth and said,  "'Tis
	round."
As later quoth Copernicus, "It moves,"
Still later, Galileo, he who groaned
In fetters for a like truth reaffirmed.
Thrice kingly three, uncourtiered and uncrowned;
Not theirs the purple robe and diadem;
Whom sciene crowns full oft doth misery clothe;
Chains were their sceptres, dungeon cells their
	thrones.
And these they portion proud, O sailor sage!
The meed of all thy waiting, wandering toil.
No marvel; thou wert God's, not man's elect,
And thou dist serve Eternity, not Time.
Of tyrant kings and priests—earth’s recreant
	powers—
Who governed but to goad and gall mankind,
The groaning world was weary; and the hour,
The fated hour when Freedom’s prostrate form,
Bursting the shackles of long centuries—
As Samson, rousing, rent Philistian bonds—
Erect should stand in might and majesty,
And shake her locks in anger at er foes,
Drew on apace. 'Twas meet that ere that hour
O tottering thrones and trembling dynasties,
That day of reckoning and red revenge
On crowned and mitered heads and reeking
	hands,
On grinding greed and trampling tyranny,
A haven from the universal storm,
That France saw fiercely burst—yet only saw
The faint beginning, not the furious end—
Should heaven prepare.  A land of liberty,

[Column 2]
A home of peace and human brotherhood,
Where men should equal stand, a sovereign host,
Nor owe to haughty birth their high degree;
Where merit’s star o’er mammon’s might ascend,
Where brain and brawn should blood and birth
	outweigh,
Where law should liberty and life defend,
And tyranny be traitor to the realm;
Where right, not might, should monarch rise and
	reign
O'er all that breathed or blossomed, neath the
	sun;
Where, linked in chain of loving unity—
The only chain that freedom's land could bind—
A sisterhood of empires, hand in hand,
Might time their steps to Truth's triumphal tread,
And march to music of Millennial strains.
Glad harbinger of still more glorious state—
The welding of the nations—world-wide chain—
With Freedom's ensign waving over all.
The brave task thine, bold wrestler with the main,
Europia's pilgrim, Neptune's pioneer!
Tossed not alone on wild Atlantic's crest,
By angry trident of the ocean god,
But on a sea of troubles fiercer still—
The unbelief and envy of thine age,
Whose waves of cold contempt and clouds of
	scorn
And wrathful winds had well nigh overwhelmed
The bark of thy adventurous emprise,
Ere glorious Isabella's friendship beamed,
And Palos saw thy slow-descending sail.
The brave task thine, thou Titan of thy time—
Albeit thy lot to better build than know—
To plow a way for Freedom through the waves,
And plant her standers on a stranger shore—
The banner of the cross, whose law divine
Is love of right and human liberty;
To pioneer a path for Freedom's own,
To pave the way for her great champion—
A mightier e'en than thou—whose patriot arm
Enclothed with thunders of omnipotence,
Wielding the lightnings of omnipotence,
Wielding the lightnings of a righteous cause,
Should cleave the clanking chain of tyranny,
Which bound, as captive to the chariot wheel
Of Britain's power, Columbia's bleeding form.
And then—oh, glorious conquest, grander far
Than burnished steel and battling hosts might
	win!—
To turn from all he was or might have been,
To wave that all but proffered kingly crown,
And seek the sweet seclusion of repose;
Sufficed to reign—where kings too rarely reign—
Without a rival in his country's love.
Yet thou the glory of that deed shalt share,
Which gave to half the world—thy hemisphere—
What all must have and hold ere Time expire;
Since truth proclaims, had no Columbus been,
Our land had never known a Washington.
What though proud Spain witheld they guerdon
	grand—
Viceroyalty’ of realms by thee unveiled,
Vast revenues no coffer e’er contained—
Pledged recompense, of pain and patient toil!
Could aught by man bestowed thy boon repay—
Thy gift to glory and a groaning race?
Wouldst wish the great debt cancelled? Gaze
	again.
Behold what Time hath wrought—the mighty
	tree
That shelters 'neath its broad and bounteous 
	shade,
From fierce oppression's rain or fiery rays,
And feeds with hope's rare fruit, the refugees
Of Freedom's cause in every land and clime!

[Column 3]
That tree was of thy planting—thine and His,
Who wrought by thee Divinity's design;
Though thou dist never live to pluck the fruit 
Which gladdens now a grateful universe.
Nor lived to see—oh, mockery of fame!
What then had made thee weep, had'st thou been
	less
Than thy great self—thy rightful claim ignored;
Another's name upon the monument
Eternal destiny designed for thee.
But lived to eat the bread of penury,
And moist its bitter crust with burning tears,
To wear the chains which envious power had 	
	forged.
In fires of causeless hate; and then to pass
Unpitied to the tomb, unwept, unpraised
And unrequited.  E'en as some brave bark,
'Gainst which to war all angry winds conspire,
Afar by tempest's fury lashed and driven,
Dismantled, shattered, wrecked, on rocky reef
Goes down in raging seas—so sank thy soul,
Thy stalwart soul beneath life's stormy wave;
Thy greatness lost in man's ingratitude.
Lost but to man's, not to thy maker's gaze,
That ship sails on, and it shall sail for aye.
Thy fame Columbus, sank with Europe's sun,
To rise upon the world thy valor won,
Whose teeming myriads now their homage yield.
What glorious walls and glittering towers appear?
For who doth honor rear these radiant domes?
These "villages of nations," where the waves
Of Michigan the shore of Freedom lave?
Why throng these multitudes that eager wend
From Asia's ancient strand—far-famed Cathay,
Where sage K'ung Fu-tse shone and Yaou reign-
	ed;
Or wise Gautama's home, the Hindu land,
For which thy prows pierced ocean's mystery.
Pacific's coral isles and palmy groves 
Send forth their dusky-hued ambassadors. 
O’er occidental seas their course inclines,
Along the bosom of Balboa's wave.
Anon from Europe's coast, whence greatness
	springs
Too plenteous to praise or e'en to name;
Land of illustrious lives and deathless dead,
Whose deeds, like laurel blossoms, crown her
	head;
From Afric's burning waste, Atlantic's isles,
Swift o'er his billowy breast their vessels bound,
Plowing anew the path cleft by the keel
That bore Columbus to Columbia's shore.
These walls and tower are thine, and thine the
	fanes,
Upreared to science, art and industry,
Whose shining fingers point thy place of rest;
these multitudes, thy pilgrim votaries,
Who hither hie to kneel and pour their praise.
Look down, O sainted soul, upon the world,
A world that now divines what thou didst know,
And more than thou didst deem the world might
	Know;
A world that praises where it once profaned,
Adores where then it scoffed, and lauds where
	blamed.
The mystic wheel hath turned; the last is first,
And first is last—Columbus—Ferdinand—:
Which is the king, and which the vassal now?
If fame be wealth, what fabled wealth is thine!
If love be empire, where they realm's confine?
Behold all nations bending at the shrine,
Columbia, loyal to thy name, doth raise!
And thuse the present for the past atones, 
And more than Spain once promised, Earth now
	pays.


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	﻿WORLD’S FAIR MASS MEETING.

				—
	PURSUANT to a call made by Mrs. E. B.
Wells President of the S. L. Co. World’s
Fair Association a mass meeting of women
was held in the Salt Lake Theatre, on
Thursday Nov. 3rd, 1892. Mrs. Wells call-
ed the meeting to order, and its object as
stated in the call, was read by the Secretary
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine.
	The following program was then render-
ed. Music—“Hail Columbia” by mem-
bers of the Tabernacle Juvenile Drum
Corps. Mrs. Zina D. Young offered prayer.
The chairman introduced Mrs. Maria L.
Nebeker. The subject of whose address
was “The Pioneer women of 1847.” The
speaker entered these valleys at that time,
as a girl of scarcely fourteen years. She
spoke of the hardships that were then en-
dured by the women, living in tents and
wagons in the Fort which was subsequently
built. Their houses were low log
rooms, mud-covered, and by no means
water-proof. The food was of the coarsest
kind, many having had to dig thistles and
segos and use them as a means of subsis-
tence.
	She compared those times with the pres-
ent and said she thought all honor was due
to those brave women who bore those trials
so patiently and did so much in bringing
about this great change.
	A song was given by Mr. Grant Hamp-
ton,Prof. H. L. Krouse accompanist.
	Mrs. Corrine M. Allen spoke upon the
subject “What the World’s Fair will do for
women.” She said we should visit the
World’s Fair, not for amusement simply,
but for educational purposes as the results
of the highest achievements in every line
of woman’s work will there be presented.
She said she thought that as each woman
takes a special pride in having her own lit-
tle home appear to the best advantage and
feels a keen interest in all its surroundings,
so each woman in our own Territory should
strive to have Utah make a creditable pre-
sentation before the world. Effort is the
price of every blessing.
	An ably written article, entitled “What
Literary women can do,” was read by Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne.

	There will be amassed in the World’s Fair
buildings and grounds, for which alone the im-
mense sum of $20,000,000 will be expended, the
largest and most wonderful display of the pro-
ducts and powers of the universe that has ever
been centralized in all the world’s history.
	Universal, because nearly 100 nations and
colonies will participate in the exposition, and
most wonderful in the consummation of 1,800
years of science, art, invention, revelation and
literature.
	Each nation and colony is making the best pos-
sible exhibit, and there we see the whole world in
a day.
	It is scarcely three years since work began, and
so systematically and actively has it been pushed
that the World’s exposition has already assumed
magnificent proportions, and think but a few
months will pass when, like the midday sun in all
its splendor bursting forth upon a dreary world,
the knowledge and enlightenment of each and all
nations will fill the whole universe.
	Think what an epoch it makes for women!
The Gordian knot is at last severed and woman
is set free from the traditions that fettered and
bound her socially, politically and intellectually.
Every avenue is now open to her. For the first
time in history, men and women are working on
the same plane as competitors, and equal justice
is meted out to both. And, dear friends, woman
is doing herself proud in the noble work. Not
only is she serving with success on national and
state committees, but has enlisted, through liter-
ary efforts, enthusiastic interest of eminent and
high minded women abroad. “And it is surpris-
ing that into countries of almost oriental conser-
vatism and limitation this electric current of en-

[Column 2]
thusiasm has extended and formed active com-
mittees even in Turkey, Japan and Mexico.”
	In consequence the woman’s department is
making a wonderful success. We are inspired to
do our part part and represent Utah in the noble
cause.
	To work intelligently and with good results
our plans should be well designed—to the terri-
torial committees we look for this—but in the
accomplishment of these plans the burden of suc-
cess falls on the literary woman.
	Let us pledge our assistance; let us proclaim
the World’s Fair cause; let us be a powerful factor
in promoting a proper representation of Utah.
	Fill our books, magazines, papers and journals
with information to enthuse the people; tell the
great good it will do for humanity; that is the
greatest educator of the age; tell the character of
its buildings and exhibits; tell what other states
are doing in exhibiting. Our literary women
should see that their cause is well represented.
The poems,papers, books and journals, composed
and edited by them, should constitute an interest-
ing collection.
	I wish I could enthuse the young women on
this subject. If you would lend your talents to
the cause many beautiful compositions could be
added to our rich store and aid in making a
meritorious showing.
	We are pleased to note that very often wo-
man’s superior intellectuality has been recognized
in the selection of her literary productions and
plans and designs when offered in competition.
A young lady of only local literary reputation
recently carried off the palm for the Columbian
Ode.
	If we have literary friends let us encourage
them to contribute their best. That the grandeur
and beauty of our mountains and vales may
find fitting praise and be proclaimed in that im-
mense display by the genius of its talented wo-
men. Discuss this subject in the press and at the
fireside, in the pulpit and on the lecture stand,
that enthusiasm may be aroused and the people
will not only try to assist in our exhibit, but have
an absorbing desire to go and see the wonders of
the universe. and seeing believe and believing fall
down and worship.

	Miss Jennie Hawley delighted the andi-
ence with her beautiful singing. A paper
“My recent visit to Chicago” was read by
Territorial President Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards.

	At no time in the history ot the world has such
an opportunity been offered woman to display
her skill in the arts and industries; her proficiency
in the professions, in skilled and unskilled labor
and her art in the management of home and its
domestic industries, as will be afforded at the
great Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893.
	It is fitting that in this great country where wo-
man has been advanced to a higher plane than
she ever occupied in the history of the world;
that the Congress in legislating for the great Ex-
position should especially recognize her. The
women of the world recognizing the great benefit
to their sex to be derived through this exposition
have resolved to participate and in every land and
clime enthusiastic reports come of the works wo-
men are preparing for exhibition at the World’s
Fair.
	In every state and territory in the United States
women have been officially recognized in this ex-
position, and it seems especially appropriate that
the women of Utah should embrace this oppor-
tunity of appearing before the world.
	During my recent visit to Chicago I was im-
pressed by the wonderful interest taken by the
women of the land in this great exposition.
	The question of the hour seems to be with the
women of this country, “What can we do for the
World’s Fair?” This may seem a grave question
for the women of Utah, and apparently cannot be
answered satisfactorily, however, it is agitating
the minds of women of other states and terri-
tories and at Chicago anything of the unique or
taking character is seized upon with avidity; and I
must confess that when I first visited Chicago I
felt some hesitancy in suggesting anything that
the women of Utah could do, but when I learned
that in other states they were troubled by the
same preplexing question, I ventured to make our
offering which, as you know, is a set of silk por-
tiers,and I was exceedingly gratified at the way
the offer was accepted.
	The president and secretary of the national
board, together with the leading officials all com-
plimented Utah on the utility of her offering and
in the selection of a place to hang our portiers,
we were given one of the most prominent

[Column 3]
positions in the woman’s building for such a con-
tribution.
	In all the departments of the exposition Utah
has been especially honored and the officials
seem desirous of according us every favor they
have in their power. They seem anxious to en-
courage us and tell us that as much interest will
be taken in the Utah exhibit as in that of any
other state, and so far as I know no suggestions
made for a Utah exhibit in any department has
been rejected at Chicago.
	In addition to this, private individuals will have
the privilege of making private or special dis-
plays.
	It is the purpose of the Utah board of lady
managers to follow the same general plan in re-
gard to our local matters as that laid down by the
national board of lady managers, therefore, we
have notified the ladies of the several counties
to present something of a special character as
coming from the women of the county for the
purpose of making the Utah building elegant and
attractive and I am gratified to learn that in many
of the counties the women are taking an active
interest in the matter.
	I am pleased to learn that the women of Salt
Lake county are wide awake and preparing to do
their share. If in all other counties the same in-
terest is taken, no one will feel ashamed of the
Utah women’s exhibit at the Columbian ex-
hibition. While this work is divided between the
territory, county and individual, it will all go to
make one great whole and will be looked upon
by visitors at the World’s Fair as an exhibit from
the women of Utah
	No individual exhibitor will be neglected; each
one will be duly recognized.
	It is my idea that we should plan together for
the purpose of making an exhibit that will be the
pride of every citizen of this great territory.

	Dr. Mattie P. Hughes was next intro-
duced and in well chosen and eloquent
language, paid a glowing tribute, to the
“young ladies of Utah,” urging them to
put forth their best endeavors in this grand
cause.
After a short intermission the program was
resumed by Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas
singing in that charming style which is so
characteristic of all her musical efforts, “My
Mountain Home.” The subject of a very
able speech by Mrs. J. B. Thrall was,
“What women will do for the World’s
Fair.”
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt read an instructive
article on the subject “The business wo-
men of Utah.” Mrs. Emily S. Richards
gave a few words of explanation regarding
dormitories at the Fair. It is so arranged
that a share—the value of which is $10—
will entitle the holder to a private room
with board, for twenty five days, or two
may occupy the room half that time for the
same amount.
	Mrs. Wells made a few appropriate re-
marks and the meeting closed with lively
music by the band.
		MAY B. TALMAGE Secretary protem.


ISABELLA OF CASTILE.
				[Continued.]
	THE light that had begun to dawn upon
the minds of men caused them to be con-
vinced in other ways besides religious mat-
ters; a new hemisphere was to be discover-
ed; “A land choice above all lands;” a
land destined to be a land of liberty and a
refuge for the oppressed of all nations; one
that had been kept hidden for centuries,
but the time had come for it to be brought
to light and chosen instruments were raised
up, fitted to preform the work. Christopher
Columbus a native of Genoa supposed to be
bom about the year 1436, marrying the
daughter of a great navigator in the
Portuguese service and obtaining through
her many valuable charts and other things
relating to Geograghical discoveries.


[Column 1]
While studying and making maps and
charts for the livelihood of his family be-
came convinced that by sailing due West a
great Country would be discovered; and
though there had been lately some new dis-
coveries made both by the Venetians and
Portuguese yet when Columbus spoke of
land lying Westward it was received with
derision; but with the energy accompaning
great minds he made several voyages in or-
der to prepare himself for the great enter-
prise that he was determined to attempt;
having laid his reasons for believing such
a land existed, before King John of Portu-
gal and importuning his assistance the king
laid the project before the nautical and
scientific men of his kingdom; they derided it;
but that did not prevent the king meanly
taking advantage of the plan obtained from
Columbus of sending out a ship to examine
the route, but they soon returned casting
ridicule upon the project.
	Disgusted and heartsore Columbus
sought his native Genoa, where his theories
were treated as the product of a visionary
brain. He met with no better success at
the Court of Venetia but all his reverses
could not divest his mind of the idea that
he had demonstrated to himself as a fact;
besides was he not led on by the hand of an
over-ruling Providence? by this same
powerful and beneficent hand, weary,
hungry and discouraged he turned his steps
towards Spain, there he met with one who
ever afterwards proved a friend, the su-
perior of a convent in Andalusia at which
place he stopped to beg some bread and
water for his motherless child, the com-
panion of his travels.
	This superior of the convent Juan Perez
de Marchena himself a man of great learn-
ing was so struck with the great ability and
reasoning of Columbus that he became al-
most convinced of the truth of his idea and
determined to use his great influence and
obtain for him a favorable reception by the
king and queen; he was kindly received and
the almost despairing man was listened to
for the first time with appreciation by the
ears of royalty.
	Isabella’s powerful mind at once grasped
the Geographical problem but she was won
more by the consideration that there might
exist a people ignorant of the Christian
religion and that to her might belong the
honor, that through lending herself to the
enterprise she would be the means of con-
verting them to the faith in which she be-
lieved. Ferdinand listened but coldly to
any dem and madeupon his treasury he was
then engaged in a war long and expensive
with Grenada and notwithstanding the
desire of Isabella to assist Columbus,
his cause was considered of secondary im-
portance to the great national interest at
stake; for though Columbus was treated
with consideration and remained attached to
the Court, he must have experienced all
the heartsickness of hope deferred, when
after a period of nearly seven years of weary
waiting he found himself no nearer the
completion of his object; for though Isa-
bella still gave him hopes of assistance,
her royal treasury was so low she could
not accomplish her purpose without some
extraordinary effort being made; Columbus
at last feeling how little faith was to be
put in princes, wearied with long waiting
determined to turn his back upon old Spain
and visit the king of France, who had
written some friendly letters to him.
Columbus had not lost faith in his cause or
in what he still believed to be his mission,

[Column 2]
but determined to wait no longer on the in-
difference of Ferdinand but mounting a
mule which he borrowed, journeyed to-
ward Santa Fe and now was Spain in
danger of losing the honor that might have
been hers. But Columbus had left a
friend at Court, and upon the representation
that same Juan Perez Marchena to Isa-
bella that Columbus was leaving Spain,
Isabella at once dispatched a courier entreat-
ing him to return; this he at first refused to
do but on becoming convinced that it was
at the request, and with the pledge of Isa-
bella herself, he gladly returned to her
presence, and how his heart must have re-
joiced when she assured him there should
be no more delay, but pledged her royal
word that she would herself undertake the
responsibility of the expenses of the ex-
pedition, she would do it for her own
crown of Castile, offering to pledge her
jewels rather than fail to fit out the ex-
pedition; for when Isabella had once put her
hand to the plough there was no wavering
or turning back; but she pursued her object
with all the energy of her nature, and so at
last three small vessels were fitted out and
put to sea on the third day of August 1492
only one of which was equipped with one
hundred and twenty men ready to start in
this adventurous enterprise; but with what
were these vessels freighted? with the study
of a life time. With the weight of eighteen
years of weary waiting, with the hopes, and
prayers of Isabella; but above all by the in-
domitable will and courage of Columbus,
and the trust in God which he manifested,
throughout his strange and eventful career.
And they were guided too by that Almighty
power who holdeth the winds and the
waves in his hand and whose spirit inspired
the heart of Columbus and led him on to
his destiny. And so a new world was dis-
covered and a new impetus given to the
nations. And what a triumph for Isabella,
when on the 15th of March 1493 the small
fleet of Columbus sailed into the harbor of
Palos. How different was his reception now
than when an unknown and obscure man
bringing with him undoubted proofs of the
great discovery he had made, than when
he stopped at the door of the Franciscan
convent to ask for bread and water for his
hungry child.
	Now all vied with each other to do him
honor not only Isabella bnt Ferdinand
knew that from henceforth the name of
Columbus, would be known and honored in
every land, for not all the triumphs of
Ferdinand, not when the standards of Cas-
tile and Saint James first waved from the
Capital of Grenada and the Moorish King
delivered to Ferdinand the keys of the
Alhambra, not then was so much honor
conferred upon Spain as when Isabella of-
fered to pawn her jewels, and not the in-
credulity of her consort to fit out three
small vessels arid become a co-discoverer of
a New World. It is necessary to pass over
many events in the life of this great man;
throughout all its vicissitudes Isabella re-
mained his firm friend; and when through
the evil machinations of his enemies on his
third voyage and through the miscon-
struction of the orders of Ferdinand he was
brought back in chains to the land on which
he had conferred so much wealth and honor,
it was the tears of Isabella of Castile that
poured the balm of consolation into his
wounded heart, and bleeding honor.
	He was still under the patronage of his
royal friend that he sailed on his fourth voy-
age in 1502 but he was destined never more

[Column 3]
to meet this true and loyal friend for when
he arrived in Spain on the 7th of November
1504 the great brain and tender heart of
Isabella of Castile, was about to cease to
beat, and her earthly career of usefulness
and power was soon to be closed forever
Isabella expired on the 26th of November
1504 at the age of fifty four years haying
occupied the throne of Castile for thirty
years.
	But Isabella still lives in the hearts of
thousands and as long as this vast Conti-
nent shall be inhabited by the tribes of men
so long as the praises of the generations of
children yet unknown shall ascend to the
Most High for the glorious gift of Liberty
and Freedom. As long as the anniversary
or the discovery of this great country
shall be observed, so long shall we remem-
ber and claim for our own Isabella of Cas-
tile.					PHEBE C.YOUNG.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SPIRIT OF CRITICISM.

	A LITTLE mirror was once given to me on
which was painted, "Be to my faults a lit-
tle blind, and to my virtues ever kind.”
I never see those words, though the proverb
is an old one, that I do not think what a
great deal it means in everyday life. You
think you would not say a disagreeable
word about your friend for anything, and
yet somebody comes up to you and talks
about her talents, or her beauty, or her
goodness, and, almost unconsciously, you
say, “yes, that is true, but” and then you
speak of some minor fault. It is the
wicked spirit of criticism rising up in you.
I wish that all girls, and when I say all
girls I mean girls of all ages, would learn to
subdue this, for I cannot but believe that
these little fault-findings, these little criti-
cisms of dress, of manner of mode of
speech, or of what ever it may be, only tend
to make the mind smaller and the girl her-
self seem envious. And it grows on one
so—one feels so certain after awhile that
one is going to see the disagreeable rather
than the agreeable side of everything.
Nothing human is perfect. Just remember
that.
	Try and think that if you can find faults
in your friend, how many more can she
find in you. Just run over the list on your
own side. Every one of us likes the wo-
man who says pleasant things, and the say-
ing of them really creates the feeling of
them; if you keep at it long enough, you
will grow to see the very best in everybody,
and the faults will be entirely obliterated so
far as you are concerned. I once knew a
girl who had the reputation for possessing a
bad temper; her dearest friends said of her:
“She is a dear girl, but what a quick tem-
per she has.” She seemed to regard this
as a sort of compliment; she spoke of her
quick temper herself, and never realized
that she was encouraging it by continually
talking about and giving it a semi-kindly
criticism. This is only one instance of the
encouragement of faults, and what you and
I want, my dear girl is the encouragement 
of virtues. So use my little motto, and
see if with its help you cannot put down
the little, mean spirit of criticism.—Ex.


MRS. POTTER PALMER said on Columbus
Day that if the discovery of America was
the great event of the fifteenth century,
"the discovery of woman is the great fact of
the nineteenth century."—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  -  -  Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,  NOVEMEBER 5, 1892.


[Column 1]

CLEVELAND vs. HARRISON.

	A GREAT political wave seems to have
swept over the country, producing such
changed conditions in the minds of the
people, that appearances indicate that for
the next few years, many wonderful changes
may be wrought and other methods intro-
duced than those that have prevailed of 
late years. The Republicans were con-
fident of the strongholds they held in sever-
al of the States but for some reason, the tide
of public opinion perhaps, have yielded to
the popular cause and helped to make it the
winning one in the race of the election of
the Chief of the nation. The people and
their wishes as expressed by the ballot have
the right because this is the form of govern-
ment which declares, this to be a govern-
ment for the people and by the people;
though in fact it is but half the people, be-
cause women are not counted.
	Leaving that aside however the people
have emphatically expressed their choice
for Grover Cleveland and to all intents
and purposes the whole term of public
affairs is likely to be turned in other chan-
nels than that it has been drifting of late.
The House of Representatives will have a
large Democratic majority and the Senate a
small majority it is said, so that determines
the policy that is likely to prevail for the
coming term however conservative the party
may be, which is not the character borne
by the Democrats; although it has been said
of Mr. Cleveland himself.
	Mrs. Cleveland so won the hearts of the
people during her short term in the White
House that she will likely be exceedingly
popular as its mistress for the second time.
The sad death that has recently occurred in
the family of President Harrison must have
caused him to feel much less enthusiasm in
his own cause of winning the election and
when the champion of a cause loses his en-
thusiasm, or his ambition is lessened the
people grow less enthusiastic in the same
ratio, and in all probability President Har-
rison cares less for it than he would had
Mrs. Harrison been with him to share his
place and the honors confered by the people.
We do not recall any instance in the history

[Column 2]

of this Republic where both nominees had
previously held the Presidential office. It
is a new phase, and the various questions
that confront the government at the present
time seem to be of a complicated and diffi-
cult character to determine. Possibly the
sagacity and wisdom of the incoming Officers
of the Republic, may solve some of the
problems that have lately appeared so deep
and abstruse as to be beyond the reach of
the most skillful diplomat to solve satis-
factorily to the people most interested in
the solution.
	As to Utah the result seemed very
doubtful beforehand but the people have
given their opinion through the ballot and
the Democratic nominee has received
the largest number of votes and therefore
will be declared the Delegate. In fact has
been honored by the ratification. In view of
the sacred trust reposed in the Delegate from
this particular Territory where there are
too many interests at stake and such a
complication of circumstances past and
present that ought to be adjusted, and also
when the fact is taken into consideration
that Utah is fully entitled to statehood if
the people were given the same privileges
as others ranking similarly in population
and other essential conditions, taking all
these things into consideration the Delegate
from Utah ought to be as able and sound a
man as could be found in the Territory.
	Women have not much to do with these
things as they have no vote, and their voices
do not seem to have been heard much in
this campaign, which perhaps is not a mat-
ter of regret considering the way in which
matters were conducted, but if women had
a vote there would have been a vast differ-
ence in affairs.
	The women of this Territory should have
had the same privilege in this Presidential
election (had Utah becom[-] a state as she
should have done) as the women of Wyom-
ing, and it is only due to the prejudices
brought to bear against this Te[-]ritory in
the past by unprincipled [-]ien who were
looking for office and its emoluments, and
the prejudice created thereby that they
were deprived of their vested rights without
due process of law. But there is a good
time coming it is ardently to be hoped and
even those who do not favor women in
politics see that suffrage for women is in-
evitable.
	While we deplore greatly the lack of op-
portunity to participate in the questions
which involve human rights in this Terri-
tory, and also the condition of affairs that
has kept Utah so long in the background
when she ought to be shining brightly
among the cluster of states, yet we rejoice
in the victory gained for woman in the state
of Wyoming, and congratulate the women
there on being the first in this nineteenth
century to vote for the Chief Executive of
the nation. They have made an opening
in the wall of prejudice that will let in the

[Column 3]

light upon some who sit in darkness, for
however much of theory may be taught
there must always be practise to convince
some timid ones, who are fearful of con-
sequences in new and untried paths.
	The women of Wyoming have worked
out successfuly two or three abstruse prob-
lems, it has been abundantly proved that
women could cast a ballot without destroy-
ing home influence or happiness, also that
women could fill positions of public trust,
and now that women could actually help to
elect the national President and, "the stars
have not fallen," nor the earth been shaken,
nor have we heard of more divorce cases or
more difficulties of a family nature than in
states where women are only reckoned in
the category of idiots, insane, etc.
	And so it is easy to see the world moves,
and women are coming to the front and the
Columbian Exposition will do more to bring
about the enfranchisement of women than
all other causes put together. This may
be a matter of opinion, but in our humble
opinion it will prove a truth.


APPRECIATION.
	WE feel much credit is due to those who
lent their efforts toward making the mass
meetiug of women recently held in this City
interesting and successful, for such it was
so some good people are kind enough to
say.
	The Board of Directors aimed to have it
so of that we feel assured and the little fel-.
lows who sat in the orchestra and played the
drums and fifes, did their best to help along.
The speakers who came forward and faced
the audience deserve praise for the able
manner in which they presented their sub-
jects, and we are only sorry that there was
not a short hand reporter present to take
full notes from those speakers who did not
have written papers.
	First we would especially thank the Ter-
ritorial President Mrs. Richards for answer-
ing so graciously to the call made upon her
even before she had returned from her trip
to Chicago, and so we trust all our patrons
and the readers of the paper will be inter-
ested in what she has said. Next we mnst ’
thank Mrs. Nebeker for coming on to fill
the place Mrs. Horne expected to have
taken with only a few hours notice; the
sickness in Mrs. Horne’s family making it
not only impossible for her to speak, but it
was not possible to communicate with her 
as to what she had planned to say. There-
fore Mrs. Nebeker out of her own fertile
brain had to collect her thoughts and gather
up a few reminiscences hurriedly, and fill
the first place on the program after the
music. The lady had never been before so
largean audience until then and consequently
felt timid and nervous, but she did bravely,
and withal made a fine appearance, which
speaks well for the pioneer women, after the
toil and hardship encountered.
	Mrs. Allen’s address was effective and
she made some telling points. Her refer-
ence to Victor Hugo’s assertion that the
nineteenth century was woman’s century,
was well put, and also the quotation from
Dr. Stevens that the brotherhood of man
must first include the sisterhood of woman.
	However Mrs. Allen’s strong personality


and originality of thought, and expression
were her best points after all.
	Dr. Hughes it is  generally conceded out-
did herself,she was eloquent and forcible and
lack of self-consciousness gave her the ease
necessary to keep the thread of her subject,
besides she had a fine theme, and one on
which there is much to be said that is al-
ways entertaining. Dr. Hughes had the
enthusiasm needed to carry her audience.
	Mrs. Horne was gracefully timid, and
modestly beautiful,her paper was excellently
well-written and contains much information
and food for thought. She will gain more
courage by practice. She deserves the
highest praise for coming out and helping
the cause along, instead of making flimsy
excuses as some young women do, who might
use their talents in promoting the develop-
ment and uplifting, not only of their own
sex in various lines but of all humanity.
	Mrs. J. B. Thrall evidenced in her speech
that she is a finished scholar and speaker
and an ardent admirer of woman, and she
no doubt convinced her hearers that women
were going to do a very great deal all along
the lines of work and of thought, mentally
morally and intellectually for the World’s
Fair. Dr. Pratt made some strong points
in a business way for women and gave some
facts concerning woman’s efforts here in an
organized capacity. The lady has a good
presence, uses choice language is always
sincere and is considerably accustomed to
speaking, though her many professional
duties preclude her public  speaking;  how-
ever we hope to see her come out more often
in the future than she  has  of late,  feeling
sure she can do great good.
	As to the musicians and singing we cer-
tainly do appreciate their efficient aid, Prof.
Krouse especially, who so kindly  spent  an
afternoon of his  valuable time, we  tender
him here our most hearty thanks, and the
young  women  Miss Hawley  and  Mrs.
Thomas and Grant Hampton also who sang,
created sufficient enthusiasm to assure them
the  audience  were  appreciative  of their
voices; the meeting would have been a fail-
ure we fear without those charming soul-
inspiring notes.
	In behalf of the County Association  of
women we thank these good people one and
all, and especially the ladies who made the
collection with  their  pretty costumes and
dainty baskets, above all their quiet manner
and amiability.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BABY LOUISA.

	ANOTHER little sweetangel of the house-
hold has gone from our midst to grace a
far more beautiful home; and though she
left aching hearts behind her here, she has
doubtless gladdened the loved ones there
with her charming presence.
			“One less at home!
Chill as the earth-born mist the thought would
	rise,
And wrap our footsteps round and dim our eyes;
But the bright sunbeam darteth from the skies;
			One more in heaven!”

			"One more in heaven!
Another thought to brighten cloudy days,
Another theme for thankfulness and praise,
Another link on high our souls to raise
			To home and heaven.”

	Louisa Hedges infant daughter of Will S.
Hedges and Clara E. Wells Hedges, was
born in Salt Lake City, June 5th 1891 and
died of pleura-pneumonia October 14,1892,
aged one year, four months and nine days.
She was the only daughter and was most


fondly beloved not only by the parents but
the whole Wells household and especially
by her Aunt Emeline (the mother’s sister)
who had been with her from her birth, and
whose grief seemed almost equal to that of
the little one’s mother.
	Little Louie as she was always called was
not only a very beautiful child, but
exceedingly bright and winning in man-
ner and was the idol of the home; but these
trials and sorrows are alike the portion of
all, and through these afflictions we learn
the lessons that prepare us for higher and
better things.
	The presence of scarletina in the house
prevented the funeral being held at the
residence, and on Sunday about noon the
services were conducted at the cemetery,
where the family and friends had gathered
to pay the last tribute to the dear child.
Many floral gifts were brought beautiful and
sweet and all that friendship and love could
add was done in tender sympathy for the
stricken mourners.
	The day was cold and weather gloomy
rendering a still more sad effect to the scene:
the singing by a quartette consisting of H.
G. Whitney, John D. Spencer, Emma Py-
per and Edith Knowlton, rendering pathetic
hymns, was most effective.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney spoke a short time
in his usual comforting and sympathetic
manner offering such consolation as the
Gospel affords to those who are bowed down,
and closed by reciting the poem ever ap-
propriate at such a time entitled “SOME-
TIME,” after singing by the quartette, Elder
Rulon S. Wells thanked the friends for
kindly words and deeds and dedicated the
ground, then the little white casket was
lowered and dust to dust, and the grave was
covered with the floral tributes so emblem-
atic of the purity of the little one whose
spirit had fled to brighter realms.
		‘‘So-by scattered ruins,
			By sweet links unbound,
		By fair blossoms all unheeded
			Trampled on the ground;
		So, He brings them home to Him,
		Where no cloud their joy can dim.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE ladies’ department of the World’s
Fair in Utah County held quite a stirring
meeting in Provo a week or so ago at which
very able and eloquent speeches were made
and fine music rendered. Miss Thurman
we are told was glowingly eloquent, and
Miss Lillian Roberts sang patriotic songs in
patrioic voice and style.
	WE must beg the indulgence of our
readers for this once in not being able to
continue the story, “In Rural England,” on
account of so much space being used for the
Mass Meeting and other current topics.
We have also other matter on hand that had
to be deferred and again we have crowded
out the minutes of the General Relief
Society Conference.
	VERMONT women are rejoicing over the
passage of a bill in the Legislatnre giving
the women of that State numicipal suf-
frage; the wives of the most prominent men
in the State are giving receptions and enter-
taining in consequence, and altogether
jubilant over such a success and no won-
der, indeed it is a victory considering the
conservatism of New England.
	IMPRESSIVE memorial services were held
in the Tabernacle in this City on Sunday


Nov. 13, for David Hoagland Cannon who
died Oct. 17. while on his mission in Ger-
many, and also for all the Elders  who
have died while  absent  upon missions.
The Tabernacle was beautifully draped in
white suggestively emblematic of the
purity of life of the young brother whose
body lay there in the elegant metallic cas-
ket in which his remains were brought
across the sea and the continent,for interment
beside his mother and with the Cannon
family.


A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

			[Continued.]
	WHILE waiting for those who were older
and less sprightly than ourselves  reach us,
we sat ourselves down on one of the many
seats which were placed along the railing,for
the convenience of weary climbers like our-
selves, and enjoyed a view of the surround-
ing city, or cities. The Brooklyn Bridge is
certainly  a   wonderful  construction; and,
while looking upon  its huge proportions,
and wonderful advantages, one is led to ex-
claim in the language of the bible: “Man
hath sought out many  inventions.”  And,
after viewing, and reflecting upon the won-
derful works that have been conceived in
the mind, and wrought ont by the hands of
man,  we are better prepared  to  understand
and appreciate the greatness  and power  of
the Almighty.     For if  puny  man in  his
fallen state, is capable of producing such 
wonders, can our imaginations  conceive of
anything too  prodigiously marvelous to  be
accomplished by the Lord.   “For high as 
are  the heavens above  the  earth,  so  are
God’s ways above the ways  of man.”  On
another occasion we availed ourselves of the
opportunity   of mounting   the   Bridge  at
night; that we might obtain a gas light view
of the city and harbor.   There was no moon,
but the myriads  of  stars  shone  brightly,
making the  heavens  appear  like  a  richly
jeweled canopy o'er spreading  the  earth:
while the innumerable lights from the city,
and lights  in  the  harbor  and  rivers, pro-
duced the pleasing  effect  of a gem-inlaid
land.
	Altogether the view from this command-
ing position is rather more than splendid—
and made us feel solemn and  poetically en-
clined; and with the same impulse, we, not
being capable of giving  expression  to our
thoughts in our own language,fell back up-
on our poet Longfellow.
	In like manner we visited nearly all the
places of special interest  in  the  city: but
among the most novel was  one  which we
found on “Wall” Street. This street leads
out from Broadway and is invariably associ-
ated in our minds  with large  fortunes lost
or won, madcap  speculations  and reckless,
ruthless, risking.    After walking up the
street for some little distance our attention
was attracted by a peculiar buzzing  sound,
which we could not directly define. No— 
it was not the wind, it was not the train
coming in—but after walking a little farther,
and listening a little harder, we arrived at
the conclusion that the noise which we
heard was produced by human voices. Yes
we were nearing the “Stock Exchange.”
Entering the building and ascending the
broad stone steps, we were shown into the
visitors gallery; from which position we
could obtain a full view of what was going
on below. That is, we could walk around
the gallery; and from all sides view a lot of
apparently crazy, though highly respectable
looking men, yelling at each other, all yell-


[Column 1]

ing together and wildly gesticulating with
their hands as though their very lives de-
pended upon it; while the radiant bloom on
their countenances, indexed the intense ex-
citement they felt, handkerchiefs were ner-
vously yet freely applied to wipe the per-
spiration from their heated brows;—while
the many telegraph operators, who had
posts all around the circular room,kept up
a constant click, click, click, on their instru-
ments, adding to the general hubbub and
confusion. It was quite impossible for us
to distinguish a word they were saying,
and looking down upon this noisy foolish
mass of humanity, we could not refrain
from mentally making use of the words of
that saucy "Puck" and exclaimed, "What
fools we mortals be."
	The scene is changed;—and we are now
fairly launched upon the mysterious deep.
We have bid adieu to the Western world,
the land of our nativity, and watch with
co-mingled feelings of sadness and satis-
faction, the rapidly receding shore.
	How the brilliant rays of the declining
sun, glorify aud bring out as by an illumin-
ation, the stately splendor and surpassing
grandeur of the land we love.
	We view it with swelling hearts, hearts
that o'er flow with gratitude, not all un-
mixed with pride, and we exclaim with
rapture deep—profound—"This is my own,
my native land."
	The sun sinks lower, lower, behind yon
fading western hills, and the shades of
night creep on apace to assume the place of
day. Yet in our recollections that il-
lumination still remains. Our country is en-
circled by a halo of light.
	Tis night; deep, vast, and solemn; and the
myriad lamps of heaven are kindly lighted,
penetrating the darkness that rests upon this
uufathomable world of nature.
	"Shine out, O, friendly stars—O,  won-
drous spheres, shine out in all your splendor;
and leave us not in darkness, with these
hungry lashing waves. Shine out in all
your glory;—telling plainly the sweet story,
of our Father's boundless mercy and our
Savior's wondrous love."
	Encompassed by such solemn grandeur,
such awe inspiring magnificence, we ask
ourselves the momentous question; "what
are we?" The answer comes spontaneously:
"Oh, arrogant mortal, thou art but a tiny
speck, amid God's vast creations:" We are
humiliated; yea,  almost stunned, by the
thought of our utter insignificance; our
nothingness. But soon is applied a soothing
balm, to the wounded spirit, and the still
small voice repeats to us these reassuring
words: "Not a sparrow falleth, but your
Heavenly Father knoweth it, and every
hair of your head is numbered. Fear not,
for are ye not of much more worth than
many sparrows?"
	How our hearts exult with gladness and
rejoicing; with praise and thanksgiving to
our Father and God, for His goodness and
mercy, long suffering and  tender care, that
encircles us, abides with us, day by day.
	I spent many evenings on the deck of the
vessel, which seasons failed not to impress
upon me, useful lessons of humility, and
greater love and reverence for the won-
drousness of God.
	"Oh, a life on the Ocean wave, the man
who wrote it was green" etc. Thus sang
one of our steamer passengers who did not
enjoy sea sickness; and we all felt willing
to join in the chorus. Yes, all our fond
anticipations of the night before, were shat-
tered to smitherines;—and we felt that we

[Column 2]

were really iu the grasp of that unwelcome
visitant; "generally always" associated with
"life on the Ocean wave."
	In order to try the power of mind over
matter, I had determined that I would not
give in to the disagreeable visitor; but
would condnct myself just as though I
was perfectly free from any squirmishy
feeling, and perhaps if I took no notice of
it, and did not let others guess that any-
thing was wrong, it might leave me. So
with this idea and purpose strong in my
mind, I took my appointed seat at the break-
fast table—with a great deal of assumed
composure; though I noted, that but very,
very few of those who sat down to the din-
ner table the night before, were now to be
seen. My waiter, all attention, inquired
what I would like, at the same time present-
ing me a bill of fare, and venturing to sug-
gest what he thought would be nice. The
very words on the bill signifying food, lit-
erally turned my stomach; and I felt that if
that waiter stood there talking porridge and
milk,ham and eggs, coffee, toast, rolls mar-
malade etc,to me, I must——on the spot.
So keeping my mouth as nearly shut as pos-
sible to admit any sound whatever, I told
him I wonld have a cup of coffee, and some
dry toast. He could tell by the manner in
which the order was given that I should
not care to wait overly long for him to fill
it; so hurried away as lively as possible,
wearing a peculiar smile on his countenance.
	I could feel myself turning pale all over,
and hot and cold alternately. I knew that
the Captain, the Purser, the Docter. and
some of the passengers who were hardened
to sea life, were eyeing me, to see how long
I would stay with it; which knowledge did
not add any to my comfort. Finally the
coffee and toast arrived and I proceeded to
partake thereof—sipping the coffee and
munching the toast—trembling lest any
moment an accident might befall me.
Probably I sat there three minutes trying to
appear as if I was enjoying myself; every
second of which I felt I could not hold out
another second; yet I would choke it down,
determined that I would not be sick; but O,
the agony of that first breakfast on the
Ocean.
	However notwithstanding my heroic re-
solves, when the three or at most four min-
utes had expired, I had concluded that if
I wished to avoid making myself unpleas-
antly conspicuous, I had better leave the
table, and that without much ceremony; I
made a beeline for my state room which
luckily was very near the saloon, and
dejectedly threw myself down upon the
hard little couch, vanquished. I remained
there somefew hours only, as it was not
recommended for my health;and then succed-
ed in scrambling upon deck, where I joined
my companions who were in a similar con-
dition to my own. We tried for sometime
to cheer each other by chatting,singing,etc.
for, from some uaccountable reason, each
one seemed most anxious that each other
one, should not guess that they were afflict-
ed. So we persistently declared that there
was nothing the matter with us. No in-
deed; we were not sick; alas such protes-
tations were idle. The pallor of the face,
the languor of the movement, and the gen-
eral shrinking from even the sound of the
dinner bell, betrayed only too surely the in-
ward feelings of all. It was quite useless
to try to conceal the fact; we must submit
to the inevitable, which wise conclusion
we arrived at sooner or later, and resolved
to make the best of the situation.

[Column 3]

	This state of affairs lasted for nearly a
week, during which time I made the deck
my dining-hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

		REORGANIZATION.
	A SPECIAL meeting was called by the
Bishop at the 6th, Ward Assembly Rooms,
Oct. 5th, 1892; for the purpose of reorganiz-
ing the Relief Society. Bishop J. E. Wat-
son and Counselor Arnold G. Giauque were
present; also Brothers Snarr and Latham.
The meeting was opened by Singing,
"Come, Come ye Saints." Prayer by Bro.
Jas. Latham. Bishop Watson explained the
business of the meeting; owing to the de-
mise of our late President the Bishop had
deemed it wise to reorganize this Society;
said it is now in order for the sisters to elect
a President to preside over this Society and
let her choose two Counselors to assist in
the duties of this office. Counselor Isabella
West was chosen President, and a unani-
mous vote was taken to sustain her, with
Elizabeth Britton and Ellen Watson as
Counselors. Sister I. West was set apart
by Bishop J. E. Watson. Elizabeth Brit-
ton by Counselor Arnold Giauque, Ellen
Watson by Bishop Watson. The remaining
officers and members were sustained by a
unanimous vote.
	Sister May Peterson enrolled as a member.
Sister Alice Butterworth, Bella Pitts, Mary
Peterson appointed as block teachers, also
sustained in that position.
	Bishop J. F. Watson said the Society is
now declared organized, in selecting your
President, it meets with the hearty approval
of the Bishop. Instructed Sister West to
preside in kindness, to create that love
amongst her sisters that emanates from
God. Seek wisdom from Him, be dictated
by His Spirit, said the sisters should be
united, willing and ready to assist President
West, and perform their labors faithfully.
“May the Lord bless, unite and strengthen
those who are called to preside.”
	Counselor A. G. Giauque said“the Relief
Society is one of the grandest institutions on
the earth. The world is patterning after us
in these things. Societies and charitable
instutions are in many parts of the world
for the benefit of the poor. The teachers of
our Relief Society everywhere are like angels
of mercy, speaking words of comfort, minis-
tering to the sick and needy, those who are
sick need the faith and prayers of such, when
the body is weak, the mind is also weak
and such need the faith of those who ad-
minister to them. Those who are called to
preside need our faith and prayers." Gave
much good connsel.
	Bishop J. E. Watson sustained the re-
marks of Counselor Giauque they emanated
from our Heavenly Father. Brother
Giauque was a young man ever ready and
willing to do his duty.
	Pres. Isabella West said, “my heart is to
full for many words. I feel the responsi-
bility of my position, I feel like a little
child, of myself I can do but very little,
my sisters I ask you to be one with me. I
ask the Lord to give me wisdom that I may
be able to fill my position with honor and
integrity. In my choice of Counselors I
feel to love all my sisters, have no fault to
find. May our Heavenly Father bless us
that we may be a band of sisters williug to
do our part.
	Brother Snarr, reminded us that we had
made sacred covenants to sustain those who


are called to preside over us. Spoke of the
teachers who were called to visit the sisters,
instructed them to pray with them when
they visited them on their various blocks.
Take words of kindness with them; get
them to attend their meetings; teach the
young the truths' of the gospel, to be in-
dustrious, economical, as well as as receiv-
ing their offerings for the poor.
	Brother Latham, had known many of the
sisters who were here to day over 30 years,
knew them to be women of God, they have
been faithful to their trust, said "I pray my
Father to bless those who are called to pre-
side, also every officer and member of this
Society. The teachers should carry the
Gospel when they visit, let your mission be
one of peace look after the poor, spiritually
as well as temporally, teach the young, ex-
plain to them the principles of truth that
they may not be led away by the allurements
of youth."
	President Christina Thompson of Eden
being present said, "I was with the sisters
of the 6th Ward at their first organization,
was present at the reorganization and to day
meet with them, to participate in this re-
organization. I was called to preside over
the Primary Association of Eden, which
position I held for seven years; have since
been called to preside over the Relief
Society of that place,still hold that position.
I merely speak of these things, that you may
know I am one with you in the church and
kingdom of God. Meeting adjourned by
singing, "O, my Father." Benediction
pronounced by Counselor Arnold G.
Giauque.
				E. W. CONDIE Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SUFFRAGE SPEECH.

[Delivered before the Suffrage Association
of Provo.]
	No education is considered quite complete
in modern times that has not been enriched
by a broad general understanding of the
principles and civil powers of the govern-
ment under which the individual may live,
and the duties of citizens toward that gov-
ernment. The exercise of authority, the
making and administering of laws, restraint,
control, direction and regulation, by the state
of its citizens. How and where the state
secures or derives its powers and by learn-
ing the source and extent, know what the
sacred rights of the individual are.
	This applies to women as well as men,
and no amount of merely ornamental ac-
complishments quite atones for the absence
of the deep under strata of power and duty
developed by the study of that science, up-
on which rests the entire fabric of civiliza-
tion.
	From text books we learn that the State
derives its powers from God and is answer-
able to Him for the exercise of that power.
No doubt, many of you will be surprised to
hear this, for a large number of those en-
gaged in pulling the ropes, and guiding the
ship of State have conducted their affairs as
if they had received their power from Sheol
instead, and that the governor of that place
had an appointive power, and unless they
conducted their business in harmony with
the policy of the chief executive they
might be asked to resign.
	The term civil government includes all
the forms of artificial regulation, that re-
strains or protects, and punishes. Absolute
monarchies, limited monarchies, Republics,
Democracy, and other forms. The govern-

[Column 2]

ment of the United States is at present half
Republican in form, as the men choose
periodically their representatives, both as to
the law making body and the chief execu-
tive. To be a pure Democratic the whole
body of the people would have to meet to
pass laws, which is not possible in any but a
small state. The government of some of the
early English colonies were of this sort.
	Human beings are social and a law of
their nature compels them to live together
in communities, and being selfish and wick-
ed, must be subject to control and restraint.
When the people in a certain given district
organize themselves for this purpose they
become a State, and the authority which
they exert either directly or through chosen
representatives, is civil government. This
government derives its powers from the
State (which is the people) and is answer-
able to the people; this is true of the gov-
ernment under which we live, with the ex-
ception of Territories, and women; in study-
ing this science of power, many have mis-
taken politics for civil government, and
some of the privileged class of male voters
who think they know enough to make laws
for all humanity, have talked to me as if
they thought parliamentary rules was civil
government.
	A great many of our bright young people
have begun their studies laboring under
various hallucinations, which is greatly to be
deplored as it has a tendency to degrade the
sentiments of purity, honor and even vener-
ation with which the subject should be ap-
proached. Wherever the interests of per-
sons, or parties, are appealed to instead of
patriotism and honor, the tendencies are de-
grading; local elections,or the heated debates
and inflammatory speeches during political
campaigns are not the proper places in which
to imbibe the true spirit and genius of
the greatest government on earth. Men
are influenced by pressures of inherited
opinions sectional prejudice and motives of
sordid interest, and often by individual hate
and malice, according to their different tem-
peraments, teachings and occupations.
Among these the strongest and most lasting
influence is that which a youth imbibes day
after day at the traditional fireside, which is
more often the dining table in his father's
house and over which his mother presides.
If there he learns that a man who owns
sheep must be a Repubiican, because there
is to be undue advantages given to that
particular class, or that the man who labors
with his muscle must be a Democrat be-
cause that party are pledged to squeeze capi-
tal in the interests of the indigent no mat-
ter why they are so; if he hears his father
say he will vote for a base immoral man be-
cause he is smart and can push the interests
of his party, or that he will vote against a
good officer, and a good man because he
differed with him on some trivial question
of, perhaps, a personal nature, indelible
reasons, imprinted on the minds of the chil-
dren who sit silent perhaps, but drinking in
every word, and absorbing the spirit as well.
First they learn that parties are something
like an unarmed banditti preying without
honor on each others interests, that occupa-
tion, and not deep rooted conviction of
principle shall decide party fealty, that per-
sonal interests and even personal prejudices
are to be considered before the conscientious
duty of a citizen. They learn that intellect
is necessary to success but not moral charac-
ter, and that the gratifying of some paltry
personal revenge is far superior to the duty
one owes his fellow citizens and conntry.

[Column 3]

Again our debating schools and clubs of
various kinds are mainly devoted to study-
ing parlimentary rules, and how to conduct
debates, rather than to that class of knowl-
edge which should precede it. Those who
have been observant have here detected a
tendency rather to study such points as
would serve to overreach and harass an
opponent, than to understand how to con-
duct the business of a public meeting with
justice to all, and the greatest possible dis-
patch.
	Studies pursued with these motives in-
stead of broadening and deepening the un-
derstanding, and justifying the judgment,
are oftener a hot-bed in which plots are
propagated, schemes sprouted, and trickery,
chichanery and fraud nourished into ma-
turity.
	Ladies are supposed to know little or
nothing of government or kindred subjects;
but many realize that even if they were never
to vote it would still be necessary for them
to understand a great deal about the gov-
ernment under which they are to live, for
the law like nature, makes no allowance for
ignorance or mistakes. It presumes every
person to be acquainted with its provisions,
which is really a great piece of presumption
when it is remembered that till within a few
years women were excluded from law
schools.
	This government was not a new idea
built up without a precedent, nor yet a com-
plete perfect and finished thought; but those
who laid its broad and strong foundations
were familiar with the theories and results
of other governments, and while from the
rich sources of the past they built the best
possible structure for the present, they look-
ed to future generations, when theory had
become practice to improve, modify and
perfect it.
	There is nothing in the constitution that
a careful study will not reveal in the great
MAGNA CHARTA, wrested by the English
Barons, from King John in A. D. 1215.
And there is nothing in human law, that is
just and meritorious that the seed thought
from where it sprung can not be found in
that great charter, given by God to the
Children of Israel amidst the thunders of
Mt. Sinai.
	If the sacredness of the duty, the grand-
eur of the trust devolving upon each person
is once thoroughly impressed upon the un-
derstanding, it clears the brain of the vapors
and smoke of conflict, lifts the motives out
of the slums and bogs of local personal
matters, and enables the happy possessor to
see the grand results, beyond the depth of
narrower conceptions.
	Again I say if woman were never to have
a vote, or attend a primary meeting, she
should still know a great many things per-
taining to this subject. For instance: why
the United States did not remain under the
rule of Great Britain. Why the great en-
deavor of the patriot fathers seemed to be to
throw the safe guards of government and
privilege around the individual. Why
women were not named as citizens with all
the rights, duties, and privileges which
that word represents in a political sense,
when the United States was first declared
free and independent.
	Why the powers of government and
divided with such nice discrimination
between Congress, the Supreme Court, the
President and the people; so that power
must answer to power for the trust reposed
in it. The relations of States to each other,
and to the general government, and how


their relations differ from those of Ter-
ritories. Our policy toward foreign
countries, the manner of raising money to
meet the enormous expense of keeping the
machinery running smoothly.
	Perhaps the best plan of studying politi-
cal history is to read the biographies of
some of our noblest statesmen, making
them models rather than nearer and living
heroes whose after acts may not be in ac-
cord with ideals.
	When the pupil has progressed thus far
and learned that there is no such thing
whatever as a confered right, that no law
or set of laws, no men or set of men can
originate justice, but can at least only lay
straight lines to prevent the trespass of
private opinion, and ruthless power from
God given rights, then men begin to be fit
to participate in caucuses and women to
teach their children.  "Fair rights are ante-
cedent to constitution and law and are only
protected thereby."
	There is no danger in these broader walks
of falling into narrow and personal channels,
the mud of which clings to so many of our
politicians.  The study of government is
refined, enobling and grand in and of
itself, and do not let the sneers of those who
have befouled the stream, prevent you
from slaking your divine thirst at the crystal
spring of Constitutional Government.
				ELLEN JAKEMAN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


N.A. W. S. A.

[To the Friends and Members of the N. A.
		W. S. A.]
	During the Columbian Exposition, daily
noontide meetings in the interest of equal
suffrage and the advancement of the cause
of women will be held in an auditorium in
tile Exposition gronuds.
	These meetings which are, of course, to
be free are to be under the management of
the Columbian Exposition Committee: you
are asked for aid. You will see that in
carrying on such an extensive work, we
cannot undertake to pay speakers either for
expense or any fee, so that we must appeal
for help to all speakers upon subjects con-
nected with the “Woman’s Question” in
the most comprehensive meaning of that
phrase.
	Will each interested person who reads
this notice kindly make it a point to send
to me at once the names and addresses of all
speakers of her acquaintance who have ex-
pressed an intention to visit the fair, to-
gether with the dates and length of time
which they will be there. These lists will
help the committee to arrange its program,
and the former will be doubly valuable if
received promptly.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
		Ch. Columbian Exposition Committee,
	Somerton Philadelphia,


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion in Washington will have a portrait of
Mrs. Harrison painted for the White House
Gallery.
	THE political superiors of women in New
York are reported as registering some of
them eighteen times, some of them even
forty times apiece.—Ex.
	THE Woman's Century is the name of a
new weekly paper to be issued in Weimar,
Germany, in recognition and furtherance of
the progress of women in that country.


THE XXVth Annual Meeting of the
National American Woman Suffrage Associ-
ation will be held in Washington, D. C. in
Metzerott's Music Hall, January 15, 16, 17,
18, 19, 1893.
	REV. Anna Howard Shaw, Vice President
-at-Large of the National American Woman
Suffrage Association, was appointed Frater-
nal Delegate to the National Woman's
Christian Temperance Union Convention
which convened in Denver, Colorado, Oc-
tober 28th, to November 2nd.
	Various articles in the public press indi
cate a misconception of the work of the
Woman Suffrage in the country.  A num-
ber of newspapers speak of "The Woman
Suffrage Candidate for the Presidency of
the United States."
	The National Association of the Woman
Suffrage Workers, the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, though its
work is of a political nature, is not a politi-
cal party and has not nominated any candi-
date for the presidency.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.
				Cor. Sec. N. A. W. S. A.


OBITUARIES.

Editor EXPONENT:
	DIED at Union, Salt Lake Co. Sept. 4th 1892,
Sister Grace Bagnley, of paralysis; she was a
member of our Relief Society.  For some time
past she has been a great sufferer yet so patient,
she partially lost her eye sight which was a great 
trouble to her; she closed her eyes in sleep thirty
hours before she breathed her last and never
opened them again; thus to the faithful Saint death
was only transition.  She was the beloved wife of
Thomas Bagnley who is left to mourn her loss;
she was the mother of nine children five of whom
are gone to the Spirit World to receive her, and
four are left to mourn her loss here, a son and
three daughters, she was surrounded by her
family and all that loving hands could do was
done for her.
	So death is but the wintry snow,
		Which veils the spirit's bloom,
	That soon with radiant life shall glow,
		Enfranchised from the tomb.
							M. A. SMART.

	On the first of Oct. 1892 we were called upon
to mourn the loss of a dearly beloved sister and
member of our Relief Society of Samaria Idaho.
Sister Jane Price, was born in the Parish of
Handilorvan, Brecon Shire, South Wales, March
1822 and baptised into the Church of Jesus Christ 
of L. D. S. in the year 1850; was the wife of John
Price and emigrated to this place in June, 1874,
with her husband and one son.  In her native
country her home was ever open to the Elders on
missions, and many will remember the kind treat-
ment received from her hands. Being of a
sympathetic nature she was much beloved by all
who knew her.  For a number of years she has
been second Counselor to the President of the
Relief Society which position she honorably filled.
At her funeral the R. S. followed the remains to 
the meeting house, from which place it was fol-
lowed, after services, to the grave yard by numer-
ous friends and relatives from all parts of the
valley, there to sleep in peace until the resur-
rection day.
			MARY D. DAVIS,
				Pres. of the R. S. of Samaria.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO THE MEMORY OF
			BROTHER DANIEL GRAVES:

[Adopted at a meeting of the Local Board Silk
		Ass'n. Provo City, Oct. 24th, 1892.]
	INASMUCH as our esteemed and respected
Brother Daniel Graves departed this life Oct. 15th
1892; at the great age of eighty six years and hav-
ing been acquainted with him very many years
we feel to honor his memory as a faithful and con-
sistent Latter Day Saint, zealous in the cause of
home industries fully realizing the benefit thereof
to the community, and also having been engaged
with him in the Silk Industry in this county, we
recognize his unbounded zeal and perseverance
for he labored long and earnestly in SERICUTURE,
and his works will follow him, and withal he was


dignified and honored in the position; though not
possessed of great earthly wealth. He was one
of nature’s noblemen, was intelligent in a high de-
gree, and conversant with the manners and cus-
toms of men and quite a scholar of the age to
which he belonged; he will assuredly rank with
the intelligent in heaven.
	The silk mission was given him by Pres. Brig-
ham Young and almost his last breath was uttered
in the silk interest showing his unceasing ef-
forts.
	Resolved, that we cherish his memory and
emulate his example.
	Father Graves was a promoter of agricultural
pursuits and a staunch supporter of the same.
He also planted the trees from which his coffin
was made a black walnut, and which he had cut
down and dried and seasoned preparatory to the
time when it would be needed. Resolved that
these resolutions be placed upon our record and
published in our local papers also in the EX-
PONENT he being well known among the sisters
having solicited their assistance many times in the
Silk Industry.
	We affectionately subscribe our names M. A.
Till Prest. Sarah B. Sanders, Sarah Goodman
Counselors, Matilda Olsen Secy. Mary J. John
Treas. Harriet Sawyer, Johanna Patten, Jane
Lewis, Cornelia Scott, Barbara Seilck, Celestia
Strong.
				   MATILDA OLSEN Secy.


Class in Obstetrics.
DR ROMANIA B. PRATT
Will commence another Class in Obstetrics
about NOVEMBER 15. A few situations
for Nurses are open in the hospital.
	For further information inquire of DR.
PRATT, Deseret Hospital. 

DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: 11 South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
     until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONAERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, Lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
 Three doors west of Theatre.

	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m. 

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to.
	AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENET.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

