VOL. 21.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1893.			No. 24. 177


CONTENTS:
    The  World's Fair-Etta   L.  Gilchrist.   Wo
man's Relief Society.    Utah Women in Chicago.
Tell of their Western Life.    In Rural England-
A Story.   U.  W.  P. Club-Gladys Woodmansee.
R.  S. Reports.   Notes and News.   In Memoriam.

    EDITORIAL:--Noted Women at  the Congress.
Edltorial Notes.

Poetry:-Spirit Revealings-L. M. Hewlings.
To My Sister-Alofa.    Eden-Ruth M. Fox.


SPIRIT REVEALINGS.
AN unspoken voice breathed o’er me, 
	In the stillness of the night,
As I watched in my lone chamber,
	For the dawning of the light,
I arose with earnest purpose,
	Trimmed the mid-night lamp anew,
All the while with soul communing
	Of the work that it must do.

Not a sound of breezes stirring, 
	Nor the fall of footsteps near,
Yet there seemed an unseen presence,
	To sustain and banish fear,
There was hush of holy quiet,
	And a silence so profound,
It enwrapped me like a garment,
	In its massive folds around.

Multiplied cares that had harassed,
	Questions that tried heart and brain,
Into thin air quickly vanished,
	Leaving me no ache or pain,
I saw afar thro’ the distance,
	By hope’s cheering rainbow kissed,
Things that before had been hidden,
	O’er clouded by doubts and mist.

Traced the divine in the human,
	O'er temptation’s rough sea,
Heard the sweet voice of the Risen,
	"Weary one, come unto me!"
I searched thro’ a volume ancient;
	Searched as for hidden gold,
The wonders of its revealing,
	By mortals can ne’er be told.

Love boundless and without measure,
	Throughout the universe spread,
Embracing the whole forever,
	Restoring to life the dead,
It flooded with peace the spirit,
	Encased in its prison cell,
Pre-visioned the final triumph
	Of good, over death and hell.

Far over the wreck of nations,
	And the world’s wide paths sin strown,
The true signal lights were gleaming,
	To guide earth’s wanderers home.
					L. M. HEWLINGS.


[Column 1]
                   THE WORLD'S FAIR.

ANOTHER INTERESTING LETTER FROM OUR
                     CORRESPONDENT.
   [The Ashtabula News Journal May 23rd,
1893, copied.]
    THE rooms at the Art Palace for the ses-
sions of Congress are very unfitted for such

[Column 2]
purposes, and the noise of passing trains
on one side, the trampling of feet or speak-
ing in adjoining rooms separated only by
thin board partitions, added to faulty
acoustic properties makes it impossible for
more than half the audience to hear dis-
tinctly. Washington and Columbus Hall
are the largest and supposed to seat 3500
people and give standing room to five hun-
dred more. It is usually filled, as are also
all the others, from thirteen to twenty-five
Congresses being held at the same time.
     Yesterday we went from one to another
of the Congresses, listening to Helen
Gardener in one room, Fannie Harley in
another and so on. Finally we drifted into
the Congress where an authors’ meeting
was being held. There I met a number of
friends, among them Mrs. Leila P. Roby of
Chicago, who writes under the nom de
plume of “Miles Standish,” and whose
mission in life seems to be to make other
people happy; and dear little Mrs. Lincoln
of Washington, (Bessie Beach.) Mrs. Roby
invited us to luncheon with her and the
Chicago Study Club invited us to a 6
o’clock dinner, served in the Art Building;
therefore much of the day was spent social-
ly.
     As a consequence, your correspondent
had to give a little after dinner talk and
found herself on the program to address
the Congress of the American Protective
Society of Authors in the evening. With
no opportunity for preparation you can
imagine the address was not exhaustive,
but it sufficed, and she ought to feel, I sup-
pose, that she has had the greatest honor of
her life.
     Mrs. E. D. E. N. Southworth was to
have been present, also Grace Greenwood,
but both were too ill to come, Emily Haw-
thorne, Kate Brownlee Sherwood and many
others were present and some of the address-
es were very fine, but we took no notes,
as the experience of being before the bat-
tery of so many opera glasses is not quiet-
ing to a novice.
     This morning we attended one of the
most interesting of the Congresses thus far,
to me, that of the Utah women, in the
National Woman’s Relief Society Congress.
Among the speakers were Madame Zina D.
H. Young wife of Brigham Young, or one
of the wives, who as President of the
society, made the opening remarks, although
my friend, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells widow
of President Daniel H. Wells, who died
three years ago, acted as chairman and in-
troduced the speakers—Mesdames Sarah M.
Kimball, and Jane S. Richards, wives of
Mormons high in the church, and Madame
Isabella Horne, one of the mothers in Zion.
She was one of those who were driven from
Nauvoo that dreadful winter of 1846 and
she told the story of their trials and priva-
tions, as through the ice, snow and rain
they made their weary journey across Iowa,
taking them three and one-half months to
accomplish. A child was born to Mrs.
Horne on the way.
     They found the Omaha Indians friendly
and they allowod them to build themselves
huts and make preparations for their farther

[Column 3]
journeying. They took with them, as they
started on the 14th of June toward Salt
Lake, a year and a half’s grain, also seed
grain. There were five hundred com-
panies, one hundred wagons in each com-
pany, and cattle, etc.
    They passed along meeting with un-
friendly Indians, when women and children 
had to help in their own defense, had
their cooking utensils stolen as they travel-
ed along the Platte river and through the
Black hills; until at last they arrived at
the Promised Land of Salt Lake valley,
the 6th day of October, 1847.
     Here upon a barren waste they pitched
their tents and began house building.
The most favorable winter ever known fol-
lowed, and they were able to plant in
February. They were 1000 miles east and
700 miles west of any supplies. But other
troubles came upon them, famine and
want, snakes crawled out of the ground and
mice by thousands and ate their clothing.
Fortunately one lady had a cat and that
aided them to get rid of the mice. Bugs
covered them coming out of the timber
from which their houses were built, which
it took years to subdue. They had no ir-
rigation and their grain crop was short.
They had no grease to make soap to wash
their clothing, no mills to grind their grain
into flour.  When the grain was nearly
ready for harvest, swarms of crickets came
upon it. Men, women and children turned
out to exterminate them but fortunately
myriads of gulls came in flocks and de-
voured the crickets before the grain was
destroyed. Then they had a grand jubilee,
a harvest home. Her husband gave fifty
cents for four potatoes the size of hickory
nuts. Rations had to be weighed out to
every one. Sugar was one dollar a pound.
To hear Mrs. Horne one could not but
think of the Bible story of the Hebrews
and their deliverance from the Egyptians.
The Mormons are apparently a most re-
ligious people and strict in religious ob-
servances, and what is more their faith in
their religion is marvelous.
     Zina Young Card, daughter of Brigham,
a very bright and comely woman spoke of
the children of Utah and told how they are
taught lessons of patriotism and purity.
     Nellie Little told of their amusements and
referred to the time when they were having
a celebration, singing patriotic songs and
listening to the reading of the Declaration
of Independence, news came to them that
U. S. troops were on the way to quell an
insurrection. The dance is their universal
amusement and the theatre.  They always
invoke the blessings of Deity at the begin-
ning and end of all entertainments. Brig-
ham was a great patron of the theatre, his 
name a monument of the drama.
     Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, a sweet faced
mother in Zion, spoke of the authors and
journalists in Utah, and the grain saving by
women. She said they had known what it 
was to be hungry, to hear their children cry
for bread, and they felt the grain must not
go out of the territory. They have 55,000
bushels stored now and will have more.
Women and children sometimes glean in


the fields for this purpose.   "If ever there
is a famine" she said "come to Zion."
	Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, a beautiful,
bright, young woman,  gave a wonderful
address  upon the  "Types  of  women  in
Utah."
	Before the session closed Mrs. Wells call-
led me to the platform and I went and sat
by Brigham Young's wife and took by the
hand each of those women with whom my
sympathy has been so  long, they knowing
(for Mrs.  Wells had  told  them  of me  in
Utah) that  I had  written  a  book  against
their institutions.
	Truly their forbearance and  kindness is
saint-like.   This one meeting was to me
worth coming to Chicago for.
	I hope  you  will  pardon  me  for  being
thus personal in my letter.
	And  now I have  said  nothing  of  the
Dormitory where we are stopping or of the
thousand and one other things that I would
like  to  write  of especially  the  reception
given by Mrs. Potter Palmer this afternoon
at  the  Woman's  building    on   the   Fair
ground,   where  were  present  the  Vice-
President  of  U. S.,  his wife, who  read  a
paper, the Duchess Veragua, direct descend-
ant of Columbus;  foreign delegates of all
nationalities, and all the great women and
some of the men who are  now in Chicago.
	The  Governor  of Illinois  made  a very
fine and powerful  suffrage speech  at  this
banquet,  I think  the  best I ever heard—
from a man.
	But with receptions, speeches and long
walks upon  the  ground,  I  am tired  and
must close.
	In my next  letter I  must speak  of  our
own handsome  Ohio  building   with  its
beautiful Cleveland room, furnished by Mr.
W. A. Otis  of Cleveland,  the decorations
and tapestries the hand work of Cleveland
ladies, and the luxury it is to feel we have
a home on  the  ground  where we   can  go
and rest.    Miss Lucy Stenniff from  Cleve-
land has charge of it  and she is very  well
fitted  for the  place,  being very  pleasant,
and entertaining all visitors delightfully.
                            ETTA L. GILCHRIST.


178                              WOMAN S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY.

(From the Chicago Daily Inter-Ocean
May 20, 1893.)
 
EMELINE B. WELLS ON WOMEN AUTH-
ORS AND JOURNALISTS.

Mme. Emeline B. Wells addressed the
National Woman's Relief Society in hall
No. 7 on the subject: "Western Women
Authors and Journalists" as Follows:

	IN colonizing a new country, especially
one barren and desolate, whither we had
gone without knowing its conditions and
surroundings, gone with only scanty pre-
parations, one would naturally suppose
there would be very little poetry in the
atmosphere or in the hearts of the women,
who had toiled across the burning plains
without murmuring at the hardships, en-
during all the trials and privations incident
to a journey through an unknown country,
making a new pathway where the foot of
white men had not trod for ages untold.
Indeed, one would think there would be as
a natural consequence a barrenness of ideas,
but no! The grand and lofty mountains
with snowy caps, the almost impassible
canyons, the howling coyotes, the profound
and wondrous silence of the great desert,

[Column 2]
the dead inland sea, all these gave the rude
materials to the writer and the poet. Then
when the dear old flag with its stars and
stripes was unfurled, and floated to the
breeze for the first time on Mexican soil
from the lofty pinnacle of Ensign peak,
the heart of the poet-patriot woman burst
into a song that immortalized the glorious
and significant event. It was the inspir-
ation of the Hebraic type of the woman of
the nineteenth century. From that time
the spirit of poesy, crude perchance, com-
pared with the finished songs and hymns of
those whose lives were cast in more pleas-
ant places,yet rich enough in rude imagery,
and true to life in that which touches the
depths of the human soul. And so it was
that woman made more endurable the
times of scarcity and privation, because the
germ of poesy, the divine sympathy with
nature in its wildest, its serenest and most
plaintive moods, found response in the
heart of women, whose prophetic inspira-
tion wove the stirring and pathetic themes
into song and story. The very wildness
and barrenness of the Rocky mountain
region forced from the lips and pen of the
poet the utterances that urged the people on,
and helped them to fulfil the simple duties
of everyday life as martial music inspires
the soldiers on the battlefield. The singers
were unconsciously interpreting the
thoughts of the weary pilgrims who were
opening up a great highway across the
American desert to the 'Golden Gate of the
Pacific sea, those songs many of them pub-
lished in volumes are here now in this great
city for the people who wish to know what
were the thoughts, the feelings and the
motives of these Western mothers, who
have reared a generation in the valleys of
the great basin.
One of the most inspiring themes and one
which no poet of the West has yet fully
interpreted is the wild, weird, solemn-sigh-
ing, sobbing, moaning wind as it sweeps
majestically (though unseen) with its tre-
mendous music and undertone of discordant
notes through the mountain fastnesses and
over the stupendous heights of those lofty
mountains of the Wasatch gorge. (range)
As soon as possible in 1850, two years
after our arrival in the valley, a newspaper
was published, and women contributed to
its columns, both prose and verse, but the
idea seemed to have spontaneous origin that
a woman's paper should be established and
on the first day of June, 1872, the first
copy of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a semi-
monthly paper, was issued, which opened
a new avenue for women poets and writers
that has developed much talent all through
the twenty-one years of its publication.
This has given a fine opportunity for women
to express their views on  all subjects, and
has made a record of charitable, industrial,
and professional work among women in the
West, and of current matters and events of
importance that has been invaluable in our
woman's work for the Columbian Expo-
sition. A volume containing one copy of
each year's publications may be seen at the
World's Fair.
	Two volumes of poems by Eliza R. Snow
were published at an early date, and later, 
after her travels in the Holy Land, "Cor-
respondence of Palestine Tourists," also
books for children etc., nine volumes in all.
The poems of Sarah E. Carmichael, one
of our Utah girls have been so widely 
celebrated that William Cullen Bryant
selected from her effusions for his edition of

[Column 3]
poets of America. She also published her
poems in book form. Among the women
who have been fortunate enough to bring
out books of prose and verse are Augusta
Joyce Crocheron, born in Boston, but reared
in the West, who issued "Wild Flowers of
Deseret," "Representative women of
Deseret," and one book for children;
Hannah T. King, an English woman, born
in Cambridge, issued three, "Songs of the
Heart," "Seripture Women," and an Epic
Poem; Mary J. Tanner, "Fugitive Poems;"
Emily B. Spencer, from Connecticut, two
volumes of poems, and several others, of
which time fails one to tell. In 1889 a
magazine was established for young women,
edited by Susa Young Gates under the
auspices of the Young Ladies' Associations.
This also, in bound volumes, may be found
on exhibition in the Utah building at The
Fair grounds.
	I have only told you of a few things that 
have been done by Western women in
journalism and authorship. I could tell
you much more had I time, but it remains
for the future to reveal the magnificent
possibilities of song and story of the drama
and romance from the gifted pens of the
daughters of the valleys of the Rocky
mountain fastnesses which lie by the inland
sea.


MRS. CHARLOTTE EMERSON BROWN,
President  of  the  General   Federation  of
Women's Clubs,   was born  in  Andover,
Mass.,  in  1838.   She is the daughter of
Prof. Ralph Emerson, who was for twenty-
five years professor of ecclesiastical history
in the Andover Theological Seminary.   As
Miss Emerson manifested a decided  taste
for  the study  of  languages  in  her  early
youth, every possible advantage was given
her for  cultivation  in  this  direction,  and
after  years of study at home and in Ger-
many, Austria, France, Italy, Greece, Tur-
key, Egypt and Syria she became a teacher
of languages in a seminary at Rockford, Ill.
In 1879 Miss  Emerson married  Rev.  Wm.
B. Brown, D.  D., then  of  New York City,
and after a couple of years spent in Europe
returned  with  her  husband  to settle per-
manently  in  East  Orange,  N.  J.,  where
Mrs. Brown was soon elected president of
the Orange Woman's Clubs.    Mrs. Brown
entered heartily into the plan originated by
Mrs.  May  Wright Sewall of  Indianapolis
for  a  general federation  of  the woman’s
clubs  of the   United  States,  and  at  the
organization  convention was elected to the
presidency of the  new federation.    Fifty
clubs entered into the Federation  at  this
convention, and within two years over one
hundred  and  twenty   have been enrolled,
the number still increasing, until  it  now
promises to embrace every woman’s club of
importance in the country.    Mrs. Brown’s
mental ability and enthusiasm  in the work
render her a valuable assistant in the ranks
of those who labor for the increase of sym-
pathy  and improvement in   organization
amongst womankind, her many sidedness
peculiarly fitting her for such service. She
might say, after the style of  St. Paul, unto
the literary women I became literary that I
might gain the "literati;"  to them  that  are
in suffrage work as a suffragist that I might
gain them who are suffragists; to them who
are without politics,  as withont  politics
(being not without interest in public works,
but under a different name)  that I  might
gain them that are without politics.    I am
made all things to  all women that I might
by all means win some.              ELITE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO MY SISTER.

Like a bird that is reared in a cozy wee nest
	And forsakes it to build another—
You are leaving dear parents, the kindest and
		best,
	You are leaving fond sisters and brother,
You are leaving the home of your childhood so
		dear 
With a trust in your heart that dispels every fear;
For has not the man who will make you his wife
Often vowed that he’d love and protect you
		through life?

For this vow and this love you are leaving your
		home,
	As the bird flits away to its bower,
To the nest where it fancies no sorrow can come
	To intrude on its joy for an hour;
You will go to a home which your love will pre-
		pare—
All his trials and burdens of life you will share
All his joys will be yours—all his hopes swell
		your heart,
All his soul’s disappointments of yours be a
		part.
Should the home he may give you be palace or
		cot,
	It is yours to convert to a heaven,
You can make it the happiest, pleasantest spot
	That to mortal on earth has been given,
Can make it a refuge from sorrow and care,
Can make it a safeguard from every snare—
You can make that same home the reverse, if you
		will,
A place for disputes, harshness, hate and all ill.

When the husband is honest, the helpmeet is true,
	As are you and the man you are wedding,
It is likely you both will in safety get through
	The rough thorny pathway we’re treading,
For beauty and pleasure are everwhere found,
When love at the fireside doth richly abound;
And labors are lightened, and sorrow and dread
Lose much of their sting from kind words that
		are said.
You are now going home—to your own home,
		you see, 
While the home of your mother you’re leaving;
	And there isn’t a doubt that your mind, young
		and free,
Bright dreams of the future is weaving,
May each happy vision presented to view, 
Be but a forerunner of that which is true;
And may all that on earth you are called to
		endure
Make your home up in heaven, just doubly
		secure.
							ALOFA.


UTAH WOMEN IN CHICAGO.

	WHAT the Chicago Daily Tribune of
May 20th, 1893, said of the Department
Meeting of the Utah Women held in the
Art Palace in connection with the World's
Congress of Representative Women.
—Editor. 

		TELL OF THEIR WESTERN LIFE.

	Early Women Settlers of Utah Meet and
		Relate Their Experience.
	WOMEN who, in the pioneer days, crossed
the barren plains and after trials, hardships,
and adventures reached America's Dead
Sea—the Great Salt Lake—were an impor-
tant factor yesterday in the Women's Con-
gress. They were all Utah women; they had
been Mormons, and in pathetic tones and re-
fined language related their experience of
early days in that remarkable territory, which

[column 2]
was then populated only by the disciples of
Brigham Young. Probably the most dis-
tinguished woman of the venerable party,
was Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, one of the
surviving widows of the leader of the
Mormons. To an immense gathering of
women she delivered a brief address in re-
gard to Utah and the women of the ter-
ritory. 
	The department congress of the National
Woman's Relief Society was held in hall
No. 7. The society's officers are Utah wo-
men. Its President is Mrs. Young; First 
Vice-President, Mrs. Jane S. Richards;
Second Vice-President, Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith; Third Vice-President, Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball; Secretary, Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells; Treasurer, Mrs. Mary Isabella
Horne. "Pioneer Women of Utah,"
covering the period of 1847-’48, was a
subject talked on by Mrs. Horne. She
talked of adventures and hardships in
reaching Utah in the early days by ox
teams, and told of the people's religion and
their relief work.
	Following her Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
made a talk on “Western Women, Authors
and Journalists.’’ Considering the popula-
tion of the territory, the speaker said Utah
had more literary and musically inclined
women than any of the older settled States.
Brigham Young first encouraged women to
write for the Deseret News, a newspaper es-
tablished by the church 1850. The old
Mormon leader also founded a theatre, which
is still the leading play-house of Salt Lake
City, in order that women might improve
themselves in dramatic art. For years a
local stock company played in the house.
The speaker further referred to books that
have been written by both the women who
went to Utah and those who are natives of
the Territory.
	This was in line with a paper, "Amuse-
ments of the Early Days," read by Mrs.
Nellie Little of Salt Lake City. There
was no dearth of amusements, she con-
cluded, from the diversity of social enter-
tainments then extant. In substance she
said:
	Prior to 1870 Utah was an isolated region, des-
titute of railroads, and with but meagre means
of communication with other States and Terri-
tories. These conditions forced its people to
rely upon their own inventive genius for pleasure.
The mammoth celebrations and picnics of early
days are memorable occasions, and for unique
display and profuse decoration have never since
been eclipsed. The first of these was given in
1849 in the Old Bowery. Soul-inspiring music,
patriotic speeches,followed by a delightful repast,
were some of the agreeable features of the oc-
casion.
	The numerous attractions of the Wasatch lure
the occupants of the city to its delightful retreats.
The custom of camping out has become so uni-
versal, that the cities and towns during the sum-
mer months resemble Goldsmith’s "Deserted
Village."
	The drama has had a potent influence on so-
ciety. Its beneficial effect, in a literary sense, is
inestimable, The early Utonian drama is of
historical importance, as it characterizes the so-
cial condition of the people at that time. From
1860 to 1870 the Deseret Dramatic Association
had its triumphal reign. This decade is distin-
guished for its literary and artistic activity.
		DR CANNON’S ADDRESS.
	Another eminent woman, Dr. Martha
Hughes Cannon of Salt Lake City, de-
livered an address on “Types of Utah Wo-
men.” The presiding officer stated that
Mrs. Cannon was between the age of 16
and 21, when a printer on the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. With her earnings at the
case she educated herself. Mrs. Cannon
said in part:
	The delegation from Utah represents two class-


ATTAINMENTS OF WESTERN WOMEN.

	Young Ladies' National Improvement
Association Holds Its First Session.

	The department congress of the Young
Ladies' National Mutual Improvement As-
sociation held its first session last night in
Hall No. 7. The proceedings of the session
were interspersed with music by a woman's
quartet composed of Mrs. May Talmage,
Miss Mary Romney, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow,
and Miss May Preston. After a few pre-
liminary remarks by the President, Elmina
S. Taylor, an address on "Literature and 
Art" was delivered by Mrs. May Talmage
of Salt Lake City. She said most of the
noted writers of Utah were self-educated,
but had become famous in literature. The
young women had received their musical
training in the Territory, but many of them
were vocalists who could no longer be
classed as amateurs. They had gained
reputations which were indeed enviable.
In painting, designing, and the like they
compared favorably with the women of 
the East, and were real artists. The ideas
and sentiments of those Western girls, the
speaker said, were lofty and noble, and the
young women were encouraged to their
best efforts.
	The addresses were as follows:
	"The Ultimatum of Human Life," by Miss
Laura Hyde; 'Legal and Political Status of Utah
Women" by Mrs. Emily S. Richards; " Mother-
hood," by Mrs. Martha H. Tingey; "Our Girls,"
by Mrs. Minnie J Snow; Education of Women,"
by Miss Julia Farnsworth.


CHARRES EGBERT CRADDOCK .(Miss
Murfree) has completed a new novel, en-
titled "His Vanished Star."
	MR. EUGENE FIELD has been formally
dubbed Master of Arts. To his heirs and
posterity the sealed document may be of
value, but to his contemporaries Mr. Field
has long been known as Past Grand Mas-
ter of many arts. He can weave stories
like cloth of gold, and he can play upon
the pipes of Pan, but best of all his gifts is
the largess he bestows upon his friends
from out his masterful heart. 		ELITE.


180			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia),	- 	Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
[-]econd class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,  - - - JUNE 15, 1893.


[Column 1]
NOTED WOMEN AT THE CONGRESS.

	At the World's Congress of Women held
in Chicago in May there were quite a large
number of vey celebrated women repre-
senting great organizations and others who
had attained such national and international
distinction as to stand alone and indepen-
dent conspicuous only for the achieve-
ments made in science, art, theology or
some other equally noble and important
work.
	Perhaps the one who deserves first men-
tion because of her position as President of
the Board of Lady Managers of the Colum-
bian Exposition, and also President of the
World's Congress Auxiliary, is Mrs. Bertha
Honore Palmer. This lady's duties are very
arduous and require a great amount of
executive ability of which she seems to 
have an inexhaustible supply. She is
beautiful in face and figure and possesses
a charming expression that adds greatly to
her personality, but in addition to her
innumerable graces of face, form, figure
and expression, she possesses that wonder-
ful tact which has been said to be more
than talent, it wins its way at all times and
is never at a loss under any circumstances.
The many duties and obligations that de-
volve upon Mrs. Palmer are all carried
with the most consummate grace and she
never appears over-burdened. She must
be wonderfully gifted by nature not to be
spoiled with flattery or attentions, or grow
haughty and repellant because of the great
importance of her unique position as the
head and front of women's affairs in the
Exposition.
	Mrs. Palmer made the first speech of
welcome to the Woman's Congress after
Mr. Bonney had given the formal address.
Professor David Swing delivered the invo-
cation. The first woman's voice heard on
this momentous occasion was that of Mrs. 
Palmer, clear, distinct in tone, and simple,
forcible and expressive in language.
	Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin Vice-President
of the Woman's Branch of the World's 
Congress Auxiliary, followed Mrs. Palmer
explaining the congresses and adding con-
gratulations and welcome. Mrs. Henrotin
is a very gracious and charming person,
born in Maine we were told, but educated
mostly abroad; seems to be a great favorite
in Chicago, and is certainly a very efficient
and competent person in the position she
occupies; where very much of the impor-
tant work of the Congresses especially in de-
tail must necessarily devolve upon her.
She has a pleasant address and is excep-

[Column 2]
tionally well calculated for the place she so
ably fills.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall as chairman of
the Women's Congress of Representative
Women came next upon the platform.
Mrs. Sewall is better known to the people
here than either of the others because of her
connection with the Suffrage work in time 
past and being the President of the National
Council of Women of the United States.
We will only say here that she is one of 
the foremost women of the country. As
Chairman of this great Congress, she has
won new laurels of fame, and acquitted
herself so well in all places and at all
times as to give universal satisfaction, to
all parties interested; and this was no easy
task, 'but required the utmost tact, in-
genuity and diplomatic skill, and in each of
these exceptional qualifications Mrs. Sewall
excels as exemplified in her signal success at
the Congress. Mrs. Sewall is a woman of
fine proportions, somewhat majestic in
figure though not tall, a very striking face
and the most beautiful soft gray hair that
gracefully becomes her queenly style of
beauty. Mrs. Sewall's speeches are all
classical in style and she has much of the
dignity and finish of the European society
Woman.
	At her right hand and always on hand, 
was Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery the efficient
and thorough good Secretary of the National
Council. Her services in the Congress
were invaluable. She was it appeared every
where present, waiting and watching and
acting promptly, her work beforehand was
almost Herculean in matters pertaining to
the holding of the Congress, the invitations,
notifications, documents and arrangements
general and final. She has a wonderfully 
active brain and fine ability for executing
the work given her to do, or planning and
classifying. She is a slight figure has a
very intelligent face and particularly fine
eyes, though they are generally covered
with glasses. Mrs. Avery is quite mother-
ly though young. She is a sort of model
mother, one never forgets with all her pub-
lic work that she is the central figure in the
home as well, she carries the impression as
indelibly engraved upon her style and man-
ner as though it were written in her fore-
head.
	In the long list of illustrious names it
is hard to choose who shall follow next in 
order, there are many foreign as well as
American women whose deeds are worthy
of record in all lands, but to an American-
born woman the names of those whose feet
have trod rough places that those who came
after might enjoy the harvest of their plant
ing,are always first in our thoughts. Several
of these pioneers were present and their
faces were beautiful with age and ex-
perience, our readers are familiar with the
names and history of Susan B. Anthony,
Lucy Stone, Julia Ward Howe, Mary A.
Livermore, Caroline M. Severance, Isa-
bella Beecher Hooker and others well
known to fame. Elizabeth Cady Stanton
though expected did not come, but sent 
her paper which was read by Miss Anthony,
her life-long comrade. Mrs. Stanton was 
ably represented by her son Theodore Stan-
ton a fine specimen of manhood, who has
lived several years in Paris and has the
French maniere perfect. When we were
introduced to him Miss Anthony added,
"when I first knew his mother, Theodore
was the baby—now his hair is gray." He
read a fine paper in the Press Congress, of

[Column 3]
which he was a delegate from across the
waters.
	Coming to foreign women of celebrity,
perhaps Countess Aberdeen ranks first—
Lady Isabel Somerset who might share
this honor was not present. Lady Aber-
deen is a veritable Scotch woman, daughter 
of the First Lord Tweedmouth, born in the
Highlands, married when twenty, to John
Campbell, seventh Earl of Aberdeen.
Lady Aberdeen is an enthusiastic leader in
women's associations, she has organized
several, and is President of a number; dur-
ing the Woman's Congress she was elected
President of the International Council of
Women, which represents the organizations
of women of all lands; Lady Aberdeen is
a very magnetic public speaker, fluent and
comprehensive. One of the associations
organized by her called first "Hadda House
Association" outgrew its local limits and 
because of its wonderful national success
gained the significant name, "Onward and
Upward Association." It has a member-
ship of over nine thousand and publishes a
monthly magazine, Onward and Upward,
personally edited by the Countess of Aber-
deen herself. In addition to the public 
career of this famous woman she is said to 
have a delightful home life, four children
three boys and one girl; and a baby
daughter, Dorothy, having passed away
has caused the mother to more fully con-
secrate her life to philanthropic work. Her
husband and herself are conjointly interest-
ed in all philanthropic and progressive
movements. Madame Isabel Bogelot is a 
celebrated French woman widely known
for her able efforts in behalf of the op-
pressed women of her own dear France.
Madame Bogelot's address at the Congress
was a very able paper on the "Solidarity
of Human Interests." She is commissioner
for the woman section of the French ex-
hibition at the World's Fair under Madame
Carnot. She represented the National
Federation of the women of France at
the World's Congress. She is Vice-Presi-
dent of the Congress of Woman's Work
and Institutions of Paris.
	Madame Bogelot is intensely French in
manner and in sympathy, an indefatigable
worker full of love and helpfulness for the
unfortunate, which her countenance be-
speaks.
	Mrs. Laura Ormiston Chant of England
was one of the favorite speakers and is a 
very graceful and charming person.
Her gift of language is extraordinary, and
she speaks on any and all subjects with
great brilliancy. Mrs. Chant expects to
come West before long and hopes to visit
our City. She is one of the foremost work-
ers among women's organizations in Great
Britain and has been several times in
America. Mrs. Florence Fenwick Miller
is another captivating English woman.
Her style is decidedly lofty and she is a 
very handsome woman of the peculiarly
English type, with that beautiful pink and
white complexion no other climate seems 
to give.
	Mrs. Fenwick Miller gave a very inter-
esting paper in the Press Congress entitled
"Comradeship between Men and Women."
	Mrs. Ebba Nordqvist nee Baronesse
Alfthon of Finland was a very interesting
and bright young woman, her husband had
accompanied her to attend the Congress.
She informed us in conversation with her
that she had published a book which she
promised to send us. This young woman
was a Delegate from the "Unionen."


Among the brightest and most graceful
of the foreign women was one from Athens,
Greece, Callirhoe Parren, whose husband al-
so came with her.  These women from
abroad were most courteously received and
entertained everywhere.  One very popular 
indeed in the United States and a great
favorite here, Helena Modjeska a woman of
remarkable presence and very great force in
presenting her subject, spoke there upon
"The Endowed Theatre."
	There are many noble names among those
from foreign countries, titled people and
grand women they were, some of them
spoke English a little, others had to have an
interpreter.
	In our next we will tell our readers of
the beautiful Syrian woman from Arabia in
native costume, and of Josefa Humpal-
Zeman of Bohemia and of those noted wo-
men of Germany and Switzerland and of
different parts of Scandinavia.
	A sweet young woman who specially in-
terested the writer and for whom we form-
ed a very strong attachement was Miss
Margaret Windeyer of Australia, of which
we will tell you something in our next
issue of the paper as this article is already
very long and we must not overdo our pen
pictures of heroic women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Relief Society Conference of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City on Friday June
30th, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and at 2 p. m. It is desirable that there
should be representatives from all the
branches in the county as there will be
interesting matters presented and important
business to be transacted. There certainly
should be a large attendance at this delight-
ful season of the year. Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne who has been absent at the World’s
Fair in Chicago and also visited New York
City, will have many pleasant things to
speak of, that will be of special interest.
	OUR sisters and the women of Utah
generally do not realize and appreciate the
value and importance of the EXPONENT or
they would certainly make a greater effort
to sustain it, even though times are hard
and there is a depression in silver. To
have a paper in which you can set forth
your own views and make a record of your
own work as a society or as individuals, to
have it engraven in a way that it can be
handed down to posterity and live after
those have passed away, who are partici-
pants therein is worthy of some sacrifice
even if that were necessary. The great
benefit the EXPONENT has been in various
ways is inestimable, and now that a new
volume is to begin, those who have the best
interests of this people, and of the organiz-
ations at heart should renew their diligence
to keep up the subscriptions and add there-
to.
	WE PUBLISH in this issue notices of the
meetings of our Associations held in
Chicago from the leading daily papers of
that city, that our readers may know what
some of the comments were. In July 1st
we shall give a more extended notice of the
meetings, and we wish the sisters to com-
prehend the fact that though it may seem
a small affair in itself, yet it will go into the
history of the great Congress, and be on
record and circulated all over the world.
It was an unprecedented opportunity and

[Column 2]
there never was before in the history of the
world such a gathering of women, as the
World’s Congress of Representative
Women assembled on that wonderful oc-
casion. That it presages advancement for
all women in the future who can doubt that
has watched the signs of the times in
the nineteenth century?

	THE MEETINGS of the National Wo-
man’s Relief Society and of the Young
Ladies’ National M. I. A. held in the Art
Institute in Chicago were well attended and
as satisfactory and successful as the most
sanguine could have anticipated, consider-
ing the number of meetings held in the
building on the same day, and the two con-
gresses proper, that were held every morn-
ing and evening. It would be impossible
to give a description of the Woman’s Con-
gress, to one who had not seen for herself,
and even those who were there could not
see or hear all, try as they might; the great
difficulty being where to go to hear the
most and the best, when twenty and thirty
meetings were going on at the same time,
and many of them being addressed by dis-
tinguished speakers. No other Congress is
likely to be so complicated or so fascinating
as this first one was for various reasons,
though these Congresses of thought, ideas
and opinions will continue the entire six
months.
	THE Book of Poems mentioned in a
former issue of our paper has been finished
and three copies forwarded to Chicago. It
is something to be proud of and every wo-
man in Utah should have a laudable pride
in the work. It is very handsome and
those who have seen it in the Woman’s
Building, are gratified to place it on ex-
hibition; Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury to
whom the book is dedicated is delighted
with its beautiful appearance. The decor-
ating is in the native flowers and each one
is suited to the poem as nearly as possible.
The INVOCATION by Eliza R. Snow with
which the volume opens is illustrated with
Columbines. The poem DESERET by
Augusta Joyce Crocheron ‘the valley’s soli-
tude’ ‘At Evening’ Emmeline B. Wells,
Evening Primroses, Heard in the Storm,
M. A. Y. Greenhalgh ‘A shower of song
swept by,’ ‘Western Wilds,’ Emily Hill
Woodmansee Wild Poppies, ‘The Stolen
Sunbeam,’ Sarah E. Carmichael, Golden
Rod, Memorial Day, Hannah T. King
‘in pendages of woe’ ‘Isabella of Castile,’
Ellen B. Ferguson, ‘Columbianum, The
Sego Lily, Lula Greene Richards, Sego
Lilies, Violets,, Rhoda Celestia Nash,
‘Violets, The National Emblem, Painted
Cup, Yarrow and Blue-bell, My Heart,’
Esther A. Bennion; ‘Wild Geraniums,
Hope,’ Sarah E. Russell ‘There are
shady nooks, My Castle in the Air,’ Mell
C.Woods; ‘the structure into beauty
grew,’ Cactus Blossoms,’Julia A. Mcdon-
ald, ‘Cactus, A Fragment,’ Mary J. Tan-
ner; ‘Ivy, Longing, Josephine Spencer,
Wild Roses,‘My Mother’s Flowers,’ Reba
Beebe Pratt; ‘Sweet Peas,’ ‘Truth,’ Hannah
Cornaby; ‘Zuchnaria,’ ‘Memorial Hymn,’
Rebecca Palfrey Utter; ‘Forget-Me-Nots,
The River,' Lucinda W. Dalton,‘its banks and
its glades,’ ‘Fragments,’E. B. Wells,Sarah
E. Carmichael, Hannah T. King, Eliza
R. Snow, Josephine Spencer; ‘the giant
hills, Butter Cups, the busy knell, Fan-
cy’s Greeting,’ Annie D. Stevens, ‘Wild
Clover,' ‘Resignation,’ Belle M. Jonhson,
‘the mountain’s rugged brow,’ The
Mother Pioneer,’ Ellen Jakeman; ‘Sun

[Column 3]
flowers,’ ‘Ballad of Lilies,’ Genevieve
Lucile Brown; ‘Lilies,’ Sonnets on the
Virgin Mary,’ Ruby Lamont; ‘Wild
Marguerites,’‘Christmas Night,’ E. R.
Shipp; ‘Wild Grape,’ The Message of the
Pines,’ Mary Grant Major; ‘Pines and
Lilacs,’ ‘An Unanswered Query,’ Aretta
Young; ‘Baby Blue Eyes,’ ‘Life in Death,’
Nevada V. Davis; ‘Everlasting, The
Spirit of Sleep,’ Julia Bowring Maltese;
‘Poppies, A Twilight Reverie,’ Queenie
Furguson; Dog-tooth Violets, Utah, Ruth
M. Fox, Astragalus Utahensis.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XXXI.

	IT was some weeks after the conversation
between Mrs. Bland and Lady Anna Wal-
ton, before anything positive was heard
upon the subject from Lady Walton in
Italy, and when she did write, she treated
the whole matter as a joke. Meanwhile
Lady Anna had done her very best by
persuasion and entreaty to induce Maitland
to go into a new country, and had made up
her own mind that America was the land
where she would be most at ease, and be-
sides Uncle Rob had written in such glow-
ing terms of the new colonies, and it was
more than probable he would take up his
permanent abode there. Dr. Bland too had
decided to give up the practice of his pro-
fession and enjoy himself in some country
retreat remote from where his former
patients lived, otherwise he could scarcely
follow his inclinations, as among them he
was simply a necessity; to him they attribu-
ted perfect knowledge of the science, and
he was such a favorite too with high and
low, that he could not have refused to go
in cases of emergency. Everything seemed
favorable to the removal, many were leav-
ing England either temporarily or forever,
some on fortunes bent and some for business
purposes, others were sent by authority of
the government to occupy important posi-
tions, but none of these various objects
stimulated either Lady Anna or her cousin.
it was entirely different with them; strange
too, for life to Lady Anna, especially had she
been like most young women was full of all
that was charming and desirable. But
Anna was not like other women any more
than her cousin Jane, both were peculiar
and distinct types, and such mothers stamp
indelibly upon their children after them,
the strong, characteristic tendencies which
constitute striking individuality.
	Something more is expected of the off-
spring of such women, and throughout the
wide, wide world, men who have attained
celebrity attribute the greatness of their
achievements to the mother—and often it
can be directly traced to that source, and
when the mother is known, she is usually
a significant type.
	In a new country too the conditions and
surroundings are such that new develop-
ments are made in character and very often
great improvement in physique.
	The new world was much talked of and
always favorably, and the feeling with
Lady Anna strengthened to such a degree
that she could not refrain from preparations,
though nothing positive was settled.
	Dr. Bland, was taken very ill and his wife
became seriously alarmed, she sent for her
cousin Anna and told her it would be use-
less to think of going to America, for the
Doctor could never endure the sea voyage—


that he must have perfect rest and quiet
both of body and mind. Lady Anna was
very devoted to her former guardian and
relied much upon his judgment in all
matters, as well as those relating to the
profession, and she felt it would be hard
for her to go anywhere without his advice
and encouragement; it seemed to almost
overcome her, for the first few days in the 
cottage, whither she hastened at the call of
cousin Jan, she was prostrated with a
nervous weakness brought on by giving
way to the disappointment she felt, when
her cousin decided they must all remain in
England. Maitland had been passive in
regard to going, and things seemed to tend
in that direction.
	Lady Anna cared very little for Walton
Hall she had never enjoyed being there, it
was a grand place, but not at all to her
liking; Hilliard Castle was much more to
her taste and as for the Walton’s friends
and visitors, she had no sympathy what-
ever with their pursuits or inclinations.
She had always shrank more or less from
society of which Lady Walton was one of
the chief attractions, and longed for the
restfulness and solitude of the wild and
unfrequented places near the old castle
where she was born and reared.
	Lord Walton’s only sister was an em-
imently popular society woman and had
prided herself on Anna’s peculiar style of
beauty and originality, and fancied she
could create a sensation by taking her under
her wing so to speak, and visiting some of 
the fashionable watering places when the
season was at its height. Finding herself
unsuccessful with her niece she endeavored
to gain her point with Maitland and meeting
him one morning alone in the breakfast
room while visiting at the Hall determined
to try her skill and accosted him with the
remark, “Don’t you think my boy that
your wife is awfully dull shut up in this
lonesome house, from morning till night,
and you always away at races, or sporting
exercises, hunting or fishing, not a com-
panion to speak to, or friend to confide in,
she has no relative you know, and I should
so like to take her out with me by your
permission? It is the gay season now at
watering places, and she is very beautiful
would be as great a belle I am sure as your
mother was in her palmiest days.”
	“My wife Aunt, is very diffident, and you
could not persuade her to leave our boy;
however, if she would give up the thought
of leaving England, or the seaside would
take her attention, it would be new, and
she has never been to the seashore; you may
try Aunt Kate; her father never took her
anywhere, but let her roam over the old
Hilliard estate, woods and grounds, and
now, if it was free from other incumbrance,
I do believe she would prefer to live
there.”
	Aunt Kate was delighted to think Mait-
land was so easily won over to her side and
determined to conquer all Anna's scruples,
and have a gay summer of it. How little
she knew the sort of material with which
she had to deal. Lovely in disposition as
Lady Anna seemed she had also an obsti-
nate side like her father when she chose to
show it, and she had fully made up her
mind to go, and to take Maitland and baby
away from the people and amusements that
had so completely absorbed him since their
marriage; she considered it her sacred duty,
she had expected devotion from him, and
coldness and neglect had been the result;
she would try some more effectual means
than lavishing affection upon him.
	It was not long until Kate Walton (a
spinster of uncertain age) found a fitting
opportunity to try her powers of persuasion
upon her nephew’s wife, she was out
gathering flowers for the table, a habit she
had, her amusements were not many, and
she loved the flowers, she was like a fragile
lily herself in her white morning gown,
and as Aunt Kate came near she compli-
mented her beauty, but added, you are as
delicate as the most sensitive flower, you
need change of air, and scene, come with
me to the seashore, leave off brooding over
things you cannot help—you will soon
bring the roses back you have lost since
baby came.”
	“Aunt Kate she answered almost sharply
I am going away, to have a decided change,
to another country America, the new world
and everything will be be changed then, it
must be, I cannot endure the pain I am
bearing now; life is wearisome.” Lady
Anna was not prepared for Aunt Kate’s re-
ply but her ready wit came to her aid; when
she stopped as abruptly as she began;
Miss Walton replied, “You have no right
Anna to bury yourself in a wilderness to
gratify a caprice and especially to take with
you the heir of Walton Hall and bring him
up like a commoner; his father owes it to
England that he should be raised and
educated a nobleman, if you have no pride
of birth and have power to ever-persuade
Maitland we will see what influence can be
brought to hear to hinder this outrage upon
good breeding.”
	Lady Anna was amazed, it was some-
thing unlooked for, it had never entered her
mind that such obstacles could be interpo-
sed, she replied calmly for she saw how
excited Miss Walton had become while
talking. “Maitland made no such objec-
tion, he must know if it would be a
wrong to England; but begging your par-
don, are there not people going of title and
of fortune, that are of as much consequence
as the Waltons? however, in a matter in-
volving such grave question I certainly do
not hold myself an oracle, and therefore we
need not waste words in an angry dispute,
Maitland is in the house I believe, but
Aunt Kate rest assured I shall not go to a
fashionable watering place even if preven-
ted from going to a new land.”
	At breakfast Aunt Kate introduced the
subject bringing up the most serious argu-
ments—Maitland treated it all with the ut-
most nonchalance. Anna remained
thoughtful and only answered when ad-
dressed, but one could see from the intense
curl of her lips that she was not convinced,
and would ultimately have her own way;
she was shrewd enough to wait in silence
for the advantage.
	Off went Maitland to London and away
drove Lady Anna, nurse and baby to the old
castle she loved so well, leaving Miss Wal-
ton to her own reflections for the day. It
was royal weather and mother and baby enjoy-
ed the ride over the country road; it was the
first visit of young Edward to the home of
his mother, and though Lady Anna had not
much sentiment of this sort naturally, it
seemed to be developing in consequence of
her life experience. The old lodge keeper
fairly danced with delight when he saw the
elegant equipage of the Walton’s drive into
the shady lane, and for a few minutes all
was hilarity and excitement. Baby Ed-
ward was a boy to be proud of and his
name was sufficient to make these old re-
tainers almost worship him, for there is
something in the English blood, that warms
at the mention of its titled nobility. (even
though they may prove unworthy of the
honor.) Comments and remarks upon the
child’s looks and general appearance were
profuse and exceedingly complimentary,
but the summing up of it all was that he
was a real Hilliard and very like his
maternal grand father whose name he bore.
The Hilliard servants had no love for the
Waltons’ tho’ out of respect to Lady Anna
they never gossipped when she was by,
but the moment she was safe, in the draw-
ing room with her own party, they ex-
pressed their regrets in vehement terms
that ever a Hilliard should mix: with the
Walton’s whom Sir Edward so detested,
and had never forgiven, and the old, old
story was repeated and reiterated and the
participants strongly abused until the coach-
man coming in upon them chancing to
catch his master’s name inquired in bom-
bastic fashion whether “anybody there had
any word to say agin the Walton’s of
Walton Hall,” if so he was ready to show
who was the best man, and the conversation
was thus brought to a stand still, and the
question was asked of the new-comer how
long his mistress was likely to stay. “No-
body knows what she’s likely to do at any
time, she has it all her own way.”
	“Do you mean to insinuate,” said one of
the men, “that she is’nt an obedient wife?”
"O,about that’’ resumed the coachman, my
master lets her do just as she likes, she
pines and frets a great deal and he don’t
like a woman who weeps and is over sensi-
tive, he wants to be at races and hunts and
can’t have a woman watchin’ and follow-
n’ him, but she’s a queer one, can’t bear
society, he likes jolly women, Sir Edward’s
style you know,” that last remark saved
him, for remembering the idiosynracies of
their former master, and considering there
must be some arrangement made for Lady
Anna and her party, a messenger was sent
to ask what were her orders for the day..
The answer came, only some simple re-
freshments under the trees where she had
often sat in the days gone by, and that she
had already apprised her cousin Mrs. Bland
of her visit to the castle and was momen-
tarily expecting her. Mrs. Bland came and
baby too and the two ladies talked over
the present and speculated upon the future.
Lady Anna told her cousin oi the objections
raised by the Walton aunt, and cousin Jane
promised to lay the matter before the
Doctor and see how any difficulty could be
averted. Dr. Bland’s health, was slowly 
improving.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	A MEETING of the U. W. P. C. was held
at the office of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
May 31st, 1893. Phebe C. Young first
Vice President in the chair. Prayer by
Ella W. Hyde, roll called, showing a small-
er attendance than usual, attributable to
the departure of so many for the World’s
Fair in Chicago.
	A communication from the “Utah Feder-
ation of Clubs,” was read by the Secretary,
as was also the constitution of that club.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp, having recently return-
ed from Ann Arbor University, was invited
to give the club a verbal sketch of her ex-
perience while away. In compliance the
doctor spoke of the studies she had been


pursuing and of the great pleasure she had
experienced in studying the works of some
of the great authors, Shakespeare, Tenny-
son and others. She had learned to more
fully appreciate the great merit of these
writers. Spoke of the intellectual
atmosphere which surrounds one in Ann
Arbor. So free from vanity and the love of 
dress, observable in many other places.
The sociability and friendliness of the
people generally, no drunkenness to be seen,
and perfect safety in going out at any time
of the night, the comfortable convenient
homes, etc.
	Ruth M. Fox recited an original poem.
Little Ellis Shipp favored the club with a
recitation entitled “The Prarie Fire.”
Lydia D. Alder spoke a few words of her
pleasure in attending the club meetings
though she was not able to do what she
would like to do, on account of her delicate 
health.
	Doctor Shipp read an original poem ad-
dressed to Ruth M. Fox.
	Several of the members were in turn re- 
minded of interesting anecdotes told by, or 
of, some of the noted writers and speakers.
Lizzie S. Wilcox, by request, read a selec-
tion from the writings of Ella Wheeler
Wilcox. 
	After a social chat upon various interest- 
ing subjects pertaining to woman’s
organizations, and club work particularly,
the meeting was adjourned for one month.
	The program not having been carried
out as pre-arranged, was to be carried over
for the June meeting.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE Rec. Secy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
PAYSON.
	THE Annual meeting of the two
branches of the Relief Society of Payson
met today in the meeting house; after the
opening exercises, President M. A. Hardy
of the 1st ward, stated that this was a
special meeting, to commemorate the
organization of the Relief Society in Payson;
and to present a small tribute of respect to
the retired officers of the old organization.
	The secretary of each ward read a
statistical and financial report of the respective
society represented. A very interesting
programme was presented, consisting of
singing, speeches from the brethren and
sisters, and reading of poetical selections,
composed for the occasion, by Charles
Brewerton and Almeda Snyder.
	The following resolutions of respect were
read by President Colvin.
	In presenting this testimonial of respect
to the late presidency, of the Relief Society
of Payson, we desire it should be under-
stood, that we do this to express our good-
will; that we realize that a great deal of
good to the community, has resulted from
their labors, in connection with the sisters
of the Relief Society; and the blessings of
the Lord attendant on their labors, in
connection with the members of the Relief
Society and the blessings of the Lord at-
tendant on their labors.
	We realize that they have done a great
deal of good, filled their positions with
credit to themselves, to the community, and
to the church of which they form an honor-
able part.
	This expression of good will, we hope
will be acceptable to and kindly received by

[Column 2]
them, it is the desire of the sisters who have
prepared this memorial.

Committee.
ELIZABETH D. LANT,
ISABELLA FINLAYSON,
JANNETT TANNER,
ELLEN SENIOR,
JOSEPHINE PETERSON.
	After the meeting adjourned, the retired
officers and present incumbents, together
with the bishopric and a few invited friends
repaired to the home of Sister Jannett
Tanner, and there did ample justice to an
elegant repast, after which a very pleasant,
social time was spent. All present voting
it a perfect success.
	The only thing to mar the pleasure, was
the severe illness of Sister Lant, one of the
committee, which illness proved fatal next
day, as she passed to her long rest, mourned
and missed by all.
M.A. Hardy, President.
Maggie Wignall, Sec’y.

UTAH STAKE.

	MINUTES of Conference of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, held in American
Fork, April 19th, 1893. Sister Mary John
presiding with her counselors.
Conference opened with singing and
prayer; reading of minutes of former con-
ference and also reports from the various
bronches throughout the county.
	Sister John, the first speaker, hoped the-
Spirit of God would be with us today, was
pleased with our reports and although many
thought it was tiresome to sit and hear them
read, it was but right to know how the
means was expended that was taken in by
the society; exhorted the sisters to faithful-
ness in their duties, said there were great
responsibilities resting on them as wives
and mothers, spoke of the liberality of the
sisters in giving for the needy etc.
	Sister Farrer knew the Lord was always
willing to hear our prayers, could testify
to the power of God in healing the sick etc.
	Sister Standring thought we had every-
thing to encourage us to go on in this work.
The Lord will honor his daughters as well
as his sons, gave a good report of Lehi
Society, they were a good band of sisters
willing and ready to care for the needy
whether of our faith or not, spoke of being
at the Temple at the dedication and of the
holy spirit that was manifested there, etc.
Sister Marilla M. Daniels thought in
changing our place of Conferences we would
become better acquainted with each other.
Spoke of the many blessings we had re-
ceived lately and reviewed some of Presi-
dent Woodruff’s teaching and of the peace
and love pervading every heart, spoke on
Temple work etc.
	Sister Till spoke a short time on the
silk industry, and conference adjourned
after singing and prayer until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon Session:—Opened with the
usual exercises. Sister John spoke on the
contingent fund; and also concerning the
incorporation, hoped all would understand
it, we are in a school and let us try to im-
prove, in all good works, bore a testimony
to the truth of this gospel etc.
	Singing, “How Glorious will be the
Morning.”
	Sister Billings felt it a privilege to meet
with the sisters of American Fork; although
we are strangers we are engaged in the
same work. We are more blessed than any
other people on this earth, we can work for
our dead and what a blessing it is; our dead

[Column 3]
are waiting to have a work done for
them etc.
	Sister Till make a few additional remarks
in regard to the silk industry.
	Sister Patten spoke on various subjects,
gave her experience in this church; also
spoke of the dedication of the Temple.
	Sister Agnes Farrer bore her testimony to
the truth of this work, the world has noth-
ing like it.
	Bishop Halliday made some very inter-
esting remarks and gave the sisters good
counsel and advice. Spoke on the dedica-
tion of the Temple and various subjects
pertaining to our salvation.
	Brother Bromley said he had always
found the Relief Society in accord with the
Priesthood. Spoke upon order, said
obedience was in reality the first law of
God.
	After a few more remarks from Sister
Marilla M. Daniels conference was adjourn-
ed for three months, singing “The Spirit
of God.” Benediction by C. Daniels.
CAROLINE DANIELS.
Secretary Relief Society, Utah Stake.

SAN JUAN.

	MINUTES of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of San Juan Stake, held
at Mancos, Colorado Nov. 21st, 1892,
President Martha Hammond presiding.
After the usual exercises President Hani-
mond addressed the conference, felt that it
depended on ourselves whether we had a
good conference or not, wished each to of-
fer a silent prayer in behalf of the speakers,
that we might receive such instructions
as would be for our best good
	Counselor Delia Eyman, of Bluff Ward,
reported the society as being in a prosper-
ous condition, said the best of feelings pre-
vailed among the sisters.
	Counselor M. A. Perkins reported the
Monticella Society as doing well, though
few in numbers.
	President M. A. Dunton reported the
Mancos Relief Society as not being in a
very thriving condition, on account of the
scattered condition of the members; but
they felt like doing the best they could un-
der the circumstances.
	Counselor Mary Jones felt her weakness
in trying to instruct the sisters, said we
should be kind and forgiving, hoped we
would be able to retain and put in practice
the instructions we hear.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, Counselor to
President Zina D. H. Young, who in con-
nection with her husband, Apostle F. D.
Richards was in attendance at our Confer-
ence, then addressed the meeting in a very
able manner. Exhorted every sister to
have her name on the Relief Society roll,
and to meet together often, as we would be
greatly benefited thereby. Spoke of the
comparison which Sister Eliza R. Snow
often made, the heap of burning coals, when
you separate them they soon die out, and
when you want to rekindle them you have
to strike another match, comparing it with
the Relief Society holding meetings so
seldom, the members are apt to get cold
and die out, whereas if we meet together
often the sisters will be alive and energetic.
Felt to encourage the sisters in their labors
in this far off stake of Zion. Gave us many
good instructions on various subjects. Also
spoke of her trip to Washington to attend
the woman’s convention.
	Apostle F. D. Richards said he felt like
exhorting the sisters to attend meetings, for


we need the spirit of the Lord to be with
﻿us and the way to get and keep it is to at-
tend to our duties. Help take care of the
poor, no matter of what sect or color. Our
conduct should be such that all people will
honor and respect us, asked the Lord to
bless and prosper the sisters. Said that we
would not always be in the scattered con-
dition we were now, but our numbers
would increase and our stake be built up,
so that we wouldn’t be obliged to travel so
far to attend meetings as now, said some-
time we would have a temple built here.
Made many other good remarks,
	President F. A. Hammond hoped we
would be benefited by the good counsel
given. The general and local officers were
then sustained by the conference. President
Martha Hammond made a few closing re-
marks. Singing, benediction by Counselor
William Halls.
	The visit of Apostle and Sister Richards
was very much appreciated by the saints,
and we hope they will favor us again
sometime in the near future.
	On November 22nd, 1892, the Relief
Society of Mancos Ward was reorganized
and the following named sisters set apart to
act in their respective positions. Elnora
Hammond President, Sarah Burnham
and Mary Slade Counselors, Louie M.
White, Secretary; Emma L. Wilden
Treasurer.
		EVELYN ADAMS, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


NOTES AND NEWS.

	CHARRES EGBERT CRADDOCK (Miss
	JUNE 17 is the anniversary of the Battle
of Bunker Hill. It is commemorated far 
and wide with flags and bells and patriotic
eloquence. This is the celebration of a 
victory won long ago for the principle that
taxation without representation is tyranny.
No one has quite so good a right to rejoice
in the anniversary as those who are fight-
ing today for the application of the same
principle to women. At Montreal, they
show to visitors, among other curiosities
and trophies, a small cannon captured from
the Americans at the battle of Bunker Hill.
One American woman to whom it was ex-
hibited looked sharply at the official in 
charge and said, with spirit: “Well, you’ve
got the cannon, but I guess we’ve got the
hill!” The people who are cheering and 
firing guns in honor of June 17 have the 
cannon; but we have the principle, which 
is more eternal than the hills; and sooner or 
later, everybody will see it.— Woman's
Journal.

	THE death of Edwin Booth removes not 
only a great actor from the theatre of life,
but a distinguished figure from the few 
notable men and women who mark a coun-
try or an age with the stamp of their indi-
viduality. Mr. Booth represented not only 
his own success to the public, but the for-
tunes of his family, who have been to the 
American stage what the Kembles were in 
England. In both these illustrious names
shine virtues of public and private life. It
is claimed that genius is not hereditary,
and yet in the histrionic bent there is much
to disprove the claim. Edwin Booth walk-
ed the stage of daily living with much the
same melancholy which marked the gentle
prince Hamlet. With griefs which were
tragic indeed, the great actor hardly needed
to simulate the roles which gave him 
thunders of applause. His name is


indissolubly linked with all that is best in
dramatic art. "After life’s fitful fever he
sleeps well." 				ELITE.


EDEN.
ON a glorious Sabbath morning in the ages long
	ago,
In the most delightful garden ever warmed by
	summer’s glow,
Where the roses, pinks and lilies and the modest
	violet vied
With the graceful waving pampas and the dahlia’s
	stately pride.

Where stood trees all richly laden with fruits of
	every kind,
Where sweet aromatic odors floated softly on
	the wind,
That gently stirred the leaflets as the sunbeam’s
	shimmered through
Showing figs all ripe and luscious and the
	citrons dainty hue.

Not a weed was in the garden nought to mar the
	charming scene,
While rippling through its centre was a placid
	silvery stream
And birds of brighter plumage gaily flitted to
	and fro
Chirping twitting, sweet songs singing on that
	morning long ago.

In this paradise enchanting roamed a stalwart
	noble man
In the image of his Maker comprehend it if you
	can,
By his side a lovely woman for a helpmeet unto 
	him,
Not his slave nor yet his servant hum’ring every
	foolish whim.

Not his cook, O happy woman! it was theirs to
	pluck and eat,
Not his seamstress for their toilet nature’s garb
	made all complete,
But with him to hold dominion over every living
	thing,
On the earth, beneath the water, and the birds of
	varied wing.

Together they held possession of this highly
	favored land,
Together they stood and listened to the Father’s
	grave command,
Together received His blessing and the promise
	of His care
If they would try to serve Him and remember
	Him in prayer.

And together we must labor gentle woman, earn-
	est man,
For the lifting up of nations and restore the
	ancient plan 
And together have dominion and make this earth
	an Eden,
For know to make a perfect man, you must have
	Eve and Adam.
RUTH M. FOX.


IN MEMORIAM.

	[RESOLUTIONS of respect for Sister Elizabeth
Davidson Lant] Born May 26th, 1893. Aged
sixty-three years and two days.
	Whereas: she held the office of presiding
teacher in the Relief Society of the 2nd, Ward,
Payson Utah.
	Resolved:—That we the officers and members
of the Relief Society, express our appreciation 
and sympathy, with the bereaved family, friend
and relatives of our beloved sister, who has pass-
ed away from this world, laid in the grave to rest
in peace to await a glorious Resurrection, the
reward of a faithful Saint, “Blessed are the dead


that die in the Lord, their works do follow them.
	Resolved;—-That in the death of our beloved
Sister Elizabeth D. Lant, our Society has lost a
faithful officer, a modest and earnest member in
ministering to the sick and needy.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved husband and family,
be spread upon our record, and printed in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Committee MARY H. BLENKY,
                  ELIZABETH STARK,
                  LYDIA DEAN.

[Lines written on the death of Elizabeth Lant
who died at Payson, May 26th, 1893.]
"Dearest sister thou hast left us,"
Thou has left this world of care,
	But 'tis God who hath bereft us
Thou art saved from every snare.
Thou art missed among the circle
	When we join in songs of praise,
Missed among the happy circle,
	In our happy meeting days.
Yet again we hope to meet thee,
	And all join that happy throng.
Thou are gone to join the faithful,
	Where all happy Saints belong.
Oh! how blest will be our meeting,
	When we join you hand in hand
Parents, loved ones, Saints all greeting,
	Will join to make the Holy band. 
M. H. BLENKY.


Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Salts a Specialty 
 No. 41 S.  WEST TEMPLE STREET,
	Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

	MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.  
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p m

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail 
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS 

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to 
DAVID JAMES, Box.306. Salt Lake City

