VOL. 21.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1893.	NO. 14.


CONTENTS:

	Passing Thoughts—Camelia. In Rural
England—A Story.  Interesting News From
Canada—Alberta. The Isabella Club House.
Work For The World's Fair. The Reformation.
Foreign Letter—Don C. W. Musser. An-
nouncement. R. S.  P. A. Reports—Bear Lake,
Far West, Oneida Stake. Notes And News.
In Memoriam. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Woman's Part In The Exposition.
Women's Papers. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Extract—L. M. H. Violets—
Hyacinth. Our Darling Gone—L. M.  Hewlings.
Woman—Lu Dalton.


EXTRACT.

In the evening of life, when its hopes once were
	bright,
Like the mists on the mountains vanish quickly
	from sight,
When our visions of youth like a bird flee away,
And the pleasures of earth fail to gladden our
	stay,
There's joy far more cheering ever present and
	nigh,
That illumines our path like the bow in the sky.
We hold sweet communion with the loved lost
	from sight,
Faith pre-visions the day that ne'er endeth in
	night,
We look thro' the gateway to the land of our
	rest,
Where released from all troubling we'll reign
	with the blest.
			L. M. H.


VIOLETS.

Welcome, oh welcome, violets blue,
	When you lift your head,
	From your watery bed,
The sunshine to wed, violets true.

Sadly I miss you, violets fair,
	When the day is hot,
	And I see you not,
In the old loved spot, violets rare.

Happy the twilight, violets meek,
	That stirs the soft breeze,
	Among the low trees,
To freshen thy leaves, violets sweet.

Gathering shadows, violets near,
	But deepen thy hue,
	To darkest of blue,
That sparkles with dew, violets dear.

Ev'nings so balmy, violets mild,
	Heighten thy radiance,
	Scatter thy fragrance,
Like a soft cadence, violets wild.

Song hours are gladdened, violets shy,
	By your mass of bloom,
	And dainty perfume;
That steals through the room, violets nigh.

How oft you recall, violets fine,
	Sweet dreams of the past,
	Far too dear to last
Their spell to recast, violets mine.

Ye heralds of spring, violets bright,
	Lay off the white fold,
	That o'er you is rolled,
So spotless and cold, violets white.


Hasten thy coming, violets lone,
	May the glad showers,
	Bring to my bowers.
Fairest of flowers, violets flown.
			HYACINTH.
Christmas Eve, 1892.


PASSING THOUGHTS.

	I ONCE heard a lady remark “Talk about
the Frenchman’s politeness they are the most
impolite people in the world. I never saw
one yet rise to give a lady a place in a car or
omnibus.” I thought myself at the time
they must be very rude, but now years
since that remark was made, reason asserts
itself and I ask why should he? Why
should a man give up that for which he had
paid just because a woman happens to desire
it? Not many days since I chanced to
be riding in a crowded street car and near
me sat two laboring men with their lunch
buckets, and tools; the car stopped for some
ladies to get on, they were in fashionable
attire probably had been calling,or to a mat-
tinee or afternoon tea, or shopping and one
of the men near me remarked “well I sup-
pose we shall have to get up,” the other re-
plied “I am awful tired I hope we don’t!
need to, it is so good to be riding home this
way,” now I ask myself and every true wo-
man why should we expect that courtesy. If
when we enter a car there are no vacant seats
why should we who come last not stand in-
stead of taking the seat of some tired, worn
out man. It is no unusual thing for a lady
to go in a shop and spend an hour or more
comfortably seated examining goods, while
the clerk lifts them up and down measures
them out, wraps them up. All the time
from early morning until night standing
and never daring to sit down, save for the
short hour allowed for dinner. Is it right,
if at evening when the day’s work is done
this same clerk and lady happen to be going
home on the same car for him to arise, as
she enters and give up his seat for her. He
is no longer an employed man but his own 
master, free for the night, he pays for his
seat in the car and why should he not retain
it. Of course there are exceptions. The
young should always, unless ill, give their
places to the aged, but we should not hesi-
tate on account of sex. I should certainly
feel to yield my seat to an aged man as soon
as an aged woman. It is not a question of
manners, but of unselfishness. For a young
healthy girl to allow a tired man to give up
his seat to her is purely selfish and she ought
not to expect it nor allow it for a moment.
One can readily see, when a women is tired
or ill and then of course a seat ought to be
provided for her even at the inconvenience
of another passenger. Another one always
imposed upon in the street car is the little
child who is just old enough to pay fare,
why should we expect the little girls or
boys simply because they are children to
give up their seats. I sat by a little girl not
long since who looked so tired, she was not
well dressed and had a few parcels. Then
some few ladies entered the car a kindly
woman near me said, “come here little girl
and sit on my lap.” I immediately said,

[column 2]
“don’t you move you paid for your seat and
possibly some one will get off before long
and the ladies can then get a seat.” She
looked at me so astonished but she sat still,
now the kind woman who offered to hold
the little girl was very stout, and I have no
doubt would have found holding the
child very uncomfortable, and why
should she burden herself. I always intend
to yield my seat to aged men and women,
the maimed and sick, and the weary work-
ers and mothers with babies and from them
I do not intend to take a place. Sometimes
we expect too much deference from men
and children and if we do not receive it,
call it impoliteness. Is it not more selfishness
on our part, than ill breeding on theirs.
	Now that women engage in all kinds of
business, and every branch of industry is
open to them the good domestic servant is
very rare. Girls have felt themselves to be
so looked down upon and ill-treated that
they much prefer employment in a factory,
a store, or office work, and yet how much
more of a servant one is in any of these
positions. The hours are always very long
and the girl is seldom allowed to sit down
and is reproved if not “docked” for the
slightest tardiness, while living with a
family, a girl not only has a home, with
plenty of good food but her duties are so
varied that she has the advantage of chang-
ing the position of the body thereby re-
ceiving rest and also physical culture.
There is no better exercise for the lungs
than a little washing. No finer way to
develop the muscles of the arm the nimble-
ness of the hand and expansion of the
chest than by kneading bread. The occu-
pations of a domestic are healthful and
might be enjoyable, if only the mistress
and maid would each endeavor to do her
duty. The former should be firm, but not
overbearing the latter willing to be taught.
There are no rules by which every house
can be governed. Circumstances are so
different and people are so different. But
where a lady tries to teach a girl her ways
pleasantly, and a girl tries to improve and
give satisfaction, no better employment can
be given. House work is not, when prop-
erly managed drudgery, in fact it is an art.
There are many unpleasant things connected
with it, still there are more that are pleasur-
able. The arrangement of a room, the set-
ting of a table, the “doing up” of a piece
of linen, the arranging of the china closet
all afford ample scope for the display of taste
and talent both in color and design. There
is no occupation that cannot be improved
by a little thought and study. As the do-
mestic can study to make her work lighter
and more pleasant, so can the shop-girl im-
prove her position. If she is in a dry goods
store why not take especial interest in color
effects and contrasts, she will soon become
invaluable to her employer, for customers
will seek her ideas, as well as her service
and in the arrangement of show cases and
windows she might become a most perfect
artist. To a very great extent the merchant
depends on his window display for his
custom, and where he finds his clerk apt in
novel arrangement and tasteful in decor-


ation, he is very likely to appreciate her 
talent and advance her position as well as
her salary, I knew of a very lovely and
wealthy woman once, whose husband's
financial ventures brought them to ruin
and she was forced to seek a situation.
She obtained one finally in a large furnish-
ing house in New York, and so exquisite
was her taste in the arranging of the tapes-
tries and laces for the windows and show
rooms, that before long her employer sent
her abroad to the factories of Europe, to select
his rarest goods; a position commanding the
utmost confidence in every respect.
	Do you ever look into your own soul and
find how full of faults you are? One becomes
so used to looking at other people and
"picking them to pieces" that he often for-
gets he may have as many or more faults
himself. How we grumble and complain
to those we love the most, while others for
whom we have not even affection we treat
with perfect politeness and deference!
	Sometimes I fear we must construe the
sacred phrase "those whom the Lord loveth,
He chasteneth," or at any rate we excuse
our own crossness by thinking it is for a
good cause. A little school girl, who had
been complained about and scolded and
punished almost beyond endurance by her 
teacher astonished the school one day by
breaking out with accusations against the
teacher saying "I try so hard and you 
treat me worse than any girl in school,"
imagine the surprise of the child as well as
the other scholars when the teacher calmly
replied "that is because I love you the most
and am more desirous for your advancement."
They understood each other at last and the
explanations of that day formed a friend-
ship between the two which lasted through
life. But what a queer way to display
one's love, it certainly needs an explanation,
after all would'nt kind words even in re-
proof be far better. Many times the hasty
words brings a sad regret that never can be
forgotten, and we injure ourselves more
than we help others by encouraging the
complaining, fault finding habit.
			CAMELIA.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


IN RURAL ENGLAND. XXVII.

	AFTER the wedding of the young heir of
Walton Hall with Lady Anna Hilliard, and
the gossip that naturally follows in a coun-
try district, the next event of importance
was the departure of the heir apparent to
the estate and castle of the old Baron, who
had lived so many years separated from his
kith and kin and without any social re-
lation whatever. Now there was some-
thing to make a stir, when it was known
that Clair the young favorite was about to
travel, and with Lady Hilliard’s old lover
and cousin, “it bodes no good’’ was the
general remark, one old tenant who had
lived upon the Baron’s estate ever since he
was a boy, whispered it about that “she
allers knew that he had too much of the
gipsy blood in his veins to settle down and
be a gentleman,’’ and with her fortune-tell-
ing proclivities predicted desolation and
ruin under such an ill-born master. Joe
Berry the grandson of the ill-omened
gossip, who had been a sort of follower and
admirer of Clair Hilliard, quarreled with his
grandma over her evil predictions, and de-
clared he would follow the young master at
any risk; and against the wishes of all the
old retainers on the place, he begged the
privilege of going with Clair to foreign

[column 2]
parts; finding him so anxious, he called up-
on the old grandmother to gain her consent,
and with his winning way completely capti-
vated her and thus changed the whole tenor
of the gossips of the neighborhood, and
turned the tables in favor of the son of
“the gipsy,” as she invariably dubbed this
foreign woman, whose identity had never
been known about the place, and the tenants
and servants consequently looked upon the
whole affair with distrust and a sort of
resentment.
	Rob Harrison waited in London for his
traveling companion, he did not care to
grow familiar with the place that brought
back so many bitter recollections, nor to be
in the company of Mrs. Bland tho’ he had
no suspicion of the state of her feelings.
He imagined travel the best antidote for
melancholy, and would also furnish the
material for literary work. He was tired of
London its fo[-]s and its bustle and with a
companion of such versatile accomplish-
ments as Clair, and constant change of
scenes and scenery he would be able to kill
time.
	And so they set off—Clair leaving the
old homestead in the care of the lodge-
keeper under Dr. Bland’s supervision, and
the builders who were to repair, and in a
sense reconstruct the house, though as his
cousin Jane had said “without making it in
any way modern.” Mrs. Bland gave him
salutary advice, and their parting was the
only feature of his leave taking that was
sad in the least. He knew that she was not
altogether happy, and could scarcely com-
prehend why she was so interested in Rob
Harrison considering he was not her cousin;
and mentioned the fact to Mr. Harrison
soon after meeting him in London—Rob
Harrison was somewhat startled, when
Clair in his outspoken way said “what the
deuce makes cousin Jane worry over you,
have you heart trouble or consumption in
your family, she speaks of you as utterly
reckless of your own health and welfare?”
	Mr. Harrison replied briefly, “O, that’s
the way with women, I’m sure I’m much
obliged to her though, as no one cares for
me that I know of, lucky to have one
friend.”
	“You forget my sister Anna who
loves you very dearly,” “Ah well! yes per-
haps so but at present she has no thought
except for the one true lover, heaven grant
he may be worthy of such devotion.”
	So the conversation ended, but Rob
Harrison pondered upon Clair’s sayings
and it was a sort of link to bind him to life
even though the future was doubtful and
uncertain. He was too honorable to allow
himself to dwell upon even friendship with
the wife of another man, he knew too much
of the ways of the world, and the doings of
society to indulge in the luxuries that
might bring serious results, and he des-
pised flirtations, but he inwardly resolved
to watch over both the Baron’s daughter
and his niece, and to befriend them should
there ever be an occasion for his services, or
his advice. He little knew what the future
held in store or the changes of fortune that
were soon to transpire.
	One bright morning when all London
was astir with its accustomed noise and
activity Rob Harrison and Clair Hilliard
sailed away, without any regrets for the
gaities of the great metropolis only taking
with them one servant each. Mr. Harrison
was so accustomed to sea voyages that he
forgot his young friend until he was pros-
trated with sea-sickness and Joe was still

[column 3]
worse than his young master. Clair was
homesick now in earnest, he raved of his
sunny home, and his mother, and sitting
by and listening to his incoherencies, Rob
Harrison learned something of his young
life; that his mother who was in reality his
grandmother, had told him that some day
he would be acknowledged, that his dead
mother had exacted a promise from the
hard-hearted old Baron, and that then he
would not have the courage to recognize
his mother’s relatives, who had worshipped
her for her glorious voice and magnificent
beauty.  All this was very touching to a
nature like Mr. Harrison’s and he grew
fonder of Clair, watching over him with
tender solicitude.
	As Clair gradually recovered from his
severe attack of sea-sickness he had faint
remembrances of his ravings and inquired
of Mr. H. what he had said when he talked
so incessantly, but Mr. H. was too wise to
cause him uneasiness and kept the secret 
faithfully, though it seemed cruel that the
woman to whom he had given his ardent
youthful love should have been only second
in the affections of the crusty old Baron, and
was still unaware that the Baron’s hardness 
and oddities were mostly owing to losing
through the duplicity and double-dealing of
Lady Anna’s father-in-law, and his sweetheart
and affianced wife the beautiful imperious
Lady Walton, whose cold and haughty
manner was everywhere noticable. Clair’s
mother knew that she had to make
the sacrifice of her ambition, for
which she had already given up the
friends of her girlhood, for though lowly
born she inherited from a gifted ancestry a
voice and fascination of grace in style and
manner, that carried captive men and women
of all ranks and station who listened to her
bewitching tones. The Baron was charmed
with her voice and eyes, he possessed the
peculiar power often given to men, who have
no outward beauty but who seem inevitably
because of physical courage and strength of
will, to captivate women against their own
better judgment.
	Strange indeed that those noble-minded
women should have been attracted to one,
whom all his acquaintances looked upon as
hard, cold, morose and only companionable
in the hunting chase or at the races. This
is one of the paradoxes yet unexplained.
	The remainder of the long voyage in the
sailing vessel after Clair’s recovery was
particularly pleasant, the weather was fine
and the sea breeze exhilarating and Clair’s
exquisit voice and suave manner were a
constant source of enjoyment to the pas-
sengers especially the ladies on board, who
lavished upon him their sweetest smiled, and
the most polite attentions. Once or twice
Mr. H. thought Clair in danger of losing
his heart to one or other of the young girls,
who were certainly charming in conversation
and vivacious in manner, but Clair though
genial and courteous dispensed his attentions
equally and remained unentangled; un-
der the circumstances it was better so as
such an occurrence would have caused an
entire charge in the programme. Clair was
a delicate, sensitive boy and it was almost
remarkable that he was not more impression-
able but he was so innocent, and entirely
from conceit or affectation. Without, being
aware of it Clair was almost idolized by the
ladies wherever he went.
	Joe Berry survived his sea-voyage and
devoted himself exclusively to waiting up-
on the young Baron, following him every-
where and serving him faithfully. The


two gentlemen were admirably adapted to
make each other happy, the elder one
dignified, scholarly, reticent and sentimental
if not melancholy inclined, the other bril-
liant, musical, versatile and affable inclined
to even an easy freedom of manner, yet 
always maintaining the utmost decorum,
and never lacking in gallantry to women or
respect towards men older or more dis-
tinguished, making himself a general
favorite.
	Meantime while Rob Harrison and Clair
were sailing over the Western sea far away
from the shores of England, the bridal pair
were enjoying their honey-moon after the
manner of devoted lovers in sunny Italy,
and Dr. Bland and his sedate and accom-
plished wife were completely engrossed with
domestic duties; for a new phase of life had
come to them in the advent of a baby boy,
who came with such beauty and innocence,
as to awaken all the chords of affection
that lay dormant in the hearts of the fond
parents. A veritable joy in the household.
All the parishioners rejoiced, and when baby
was christened there was a great rivalry
among the ladies as to who should be chos-
en godmother. From that time Mrs. Bland
was more intensely devoted to her home and
family, almost forgetting Anna and Clair,
save at long intervals, when letters reached
her of the adventures of the one party, or
overflowing happiness of the other.
	Time passed, Maitland and Lady Anna
returned from the continent and took up
their abode in a fashionable part of London,
living in the most aristocratic style, Lady
Walton senior having superintended all the
arrangements, for Lady Anna was totally
unaccustomed to society and had no tact
or talent in such matters. Her native inno-
cence was her chief attraction, there was
something queenly in her dignity neverthe-
less, and wherever she went her beauty and
modesty were commented upon. Her first
visit to the old castle was quite romantic,
after her long absence, the old servants were
obsequious in their attentions and every
new feature of the old building was told
over in detail.
	Her cousin's baby was the most interest-
ing and she never wearied of its praises and
grew almost as fond of the little fellow as
the fond mother herself. She roamed
about the parks and groves, as in the days
of her childhood, visiting her favorite
haunts, and cheering the hearts of the
tenantry with her hearty good will and lit-
tle gifts from abroad.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR DARLING GONE.

Tho' many years have come and gone,
	Since our darling left his play,
And fled from his earthly home,
	Yet we mourn his loss today.
We pine for the sweet cherub face,
	For the soft and winning smile,
The voice so full of tender grace,
	Our loneliness to beguile.
No little feet dance by my side,
	No dimpled hands clasp mine,
Life's sparkling cup was dashed aside,
	Ere the lips had pressed its wine.
Now hushed for aye, his pure glad song,
	And the merry laughter's cheer,
No child voice greets us at the dawn,
	That so long we've pined to hear.
Tho' many years have come and gone,
	We weep for our birdie flown,
Wher'er we are, whoe'er is near,
	Without him our hearts are lone.
			L. M. HEWLINGS.


WOMAN.

WOMAN is first to know sorrow and pain,
   Last to be paid for her labor,
First in self-sacrifice, last to obtain
	Justice, or even a favor.
First to greet lovingly man at his birth,
	Last to forsake him when dying,
First to make sunshine around his hearth,
	Last to lose heart and cease trying.
Last at the cross of her crucified Lord,
	First to behold him when risen,
First, to proclaim him to life restored,
	 Bursting from death’s gloomy prison.
First to seek knowledge, the God-like prize,
 	Last to gain credit for knowing, 
First to call children a gift from the skies,
	Last to enjoy their bestowing.
First to fall under the censure of God,
	Last to receive a full pardon,
First to kiss meekly the chastening rod,
 	Thrust from her beautiful garden.
First to be sold for the wages of sin,
	Last to be sought and forgiven,
First in the scorn of her dear brother, man,
	Last in the kingdom of heaven.
So, a day cometh, a glorious day,
	Early perfection restoring—
Sin and its burdens shall be swept away,
	And love flow like rivers outpouring.
Then woman, who loves e’en thro, sorrow
    and shame,
	The crown of a queen will be wearing,
And love, freed from lust, a divinely, pure
     flame,
	Shall save our sad earth from despairing.
That latter-day work is already begun,
	The good from the evil to sever,
The Word has gone forth that when all is
	done,
The last shall be first forever. 
	LU DALTON.


[Column 1]

INTERESTING NEWS FROM
CANADA.
Dear Editor:—
	WITH the dawning of the new year came 
the thought that you had not heard from
this part of the world for some time. Our
community as a whole are in excellent
health, prosperous and industrious. The
winter has been some what unusual, as the
snow that as a rule, came about the last of
December, came in November, and has just
disappeared under the cheering influences
of a glorious Chinook, bare hills, plenty of
grass, and happy stock, are the gratifying
results, without question this is the stock
country, of the North American Continent.
 	A comfortable new meeting house adorns
the hill, its dimensions, 26x40 and built
from .lumber made at the Cardston Lumber,
mills. The grist mill is running now, and 
turns out good flour, cheese from our factory
has sold rapidly, being used exclusively in
the local market, and pronounced by all a
first class article, the store does a booming
business, and pays its stock holders good 
living dividends.
	We have an excellent Church School,
with an attendance of sixty-five or seventy
scholars. Elder Sterling Williams, a graduate
from S. L. L. D. S. College being the teacher.
	The Relief Society having no outside
branches have made their annual meeting
the occasion of general reports and an as-
sembling of outside ranching members.
 	The last held, Dec. second, was most
gratifying in all respects, it came on fast-

[Column 2]
day and in the afternoon reports, speeches
from Pres. Card and other leading brethren
with appropriate exercises by the sisters was
followed by a general participation of old
and young in the novel and amusing draw-
ing of prizes from a “lucky bag” and “fish,
pond,” the presents being donated by the
members of the Society; in connection with
this a lunch stand dispensed the good
things of life to the hungry throng, and all
felt they had the worth of their money and
a neat sum of cash was handed over to the
"new meeting house" fund as the result.
In the evening an excellent programme
was rendered. Music by the brass band,
solo’s on the violin and organ, recitations,
songs and speeches with some fine step
dancing,made up an evening’s entertainment 
not soon to be forgotten. As there are no
poor here who depend on the society, the
means gathered is spent in doing for the
occasional needs of sickness or accident, and
public enterprises.
	The young peoples’ associations are alive
and doing. A Fair in the fall, an Annual
meeting in Dec. with lunch stand, to raise
funds for the Temple and a Leap Year 
ball, the proceeds going 10 the meeting
house, has prevented any sluggishness on the
part of members, and those who are doing 
their duty are happy and content with their
lot, of course we have our grumblers and
rowdy element, as “The gospel net’’ has
some of all kinds no matter where the saints 
dwell.
	The Literary and Dramatic Association 
gave a fine entertainment New Year’s Eve;
the talent here is certainly excellent, all it
wants is to be developed. As the new 
meeting house joins the old one—being raised
some two feet higher, it answers for a stage,
the old part seats about one hundred and
fifty it makes a fine auditorium.
	Last summer so many dear friends were
expected, and I am sure they all felt well
paid for their trip, but like the seasons, they
will surely come, whether we expect them
or not. With the “Compliments of the
season” to all dear friends and a prayer for
“Zion’s cause” I am ever yours,
ALBERTA.
CARDSTON, Jan. 2nd, 1893.


THE ISABELLA CLUB HOUSE.

	THE Isabella Club House is in process of
construction on a beautiful site within a few
minutes walk of the main entrance to the
Fair Grounds. In order to purchase out-
side property and to build a permanent
building it has been necessary to interest
private capital.
	Every membership certificate issued in the
name of the Association will be honored,
the present members having the use of the
Club House for the entire six months for
the membership fee of one dollar.
	The Statue of Queen Isabella is now
ready to be cast in bronze. Those who
have seen it declare it to be a master-piece.
Miss Hosmer considers this her crowning
work and her name will henceforth be link-
ed with that of the great Queen.
	The Isabella Club House, adjoining the
Isabella Hotel is progressing rapidly. It is
a five story structure of brick and stone
with all the modern improvements.
	The walls will be hung with beautiful
paintings, the productions of the Art De-
partment of the Queen Isabella Association.
	The Congress Hall is designed to seat
six hundred people.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
5o cts. No reduction made tor clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $300. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 1o a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY - - January, 15th, 1893.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S PART IN THE
EXPOSITION.

	THE World’s Fair work is progressing
safely and surely in these parts, if one can
judge from appearances. Many ladies are
energetic and giving freely of time and
means others are more backward and need
constant persuading and even urging. Yet
in all probability there will be compara-
tively a good representation from this Ter-
ritory, as we know many articles are begun
by those who have taste and skill, as well as
perseverance to accomplish what they un-
dertake to do. Thinking of the importance
of such an exhibit by the women of the
whole civilized world, it appears strange
that any woman should need encouraging
upon a matter of public interest and benefit,
such as this will most certainly be.
	The women engaged in it, should take
pains to read what others, in the various
states and territories, are doing, and thus
become enlightened generally, so as not to
fall behind the great army of workers.
Money is scarce, and other efforts should
be more energetically applied, many things
can be done with but very little ready cash.
“Where there is a will there is a way,”
may apply in this case as in many others.
	It is a pity that things have been pushed
so late in the season, but improve the lit-
tle time remaining to the best advantage.
	The silk portieres for the Woman’s Build-
ing, are something to be proud of, and the
furnishing of the Utah building will give
the ladies a fair opportunity of displaying
taste, ingenuity, harmony and skill.
	Statistics are' rather slow in coming in,
considering how urgent have been the re-
quests sent out to have them furnished,and
the time it will take the Territorial Com-
mittee to prepare them after they have all
been received.
	There has never been in any age of the
world, such an opportunity given for the
educational progress and advancement in
all departments of intelligence, as will be
afforded by the Columbian Exposition.
What its results and achievements will be,
must assuredly depend largely upon women

[Column 2]
themselves, as there seems to be no bar
to the progress, no limit to the free exercise
and development of whatever powers they
may bring into the field of art, science,
professions, industry or general enterprises,
	It is not likely that all will be equally
inspired with the enthusiasm and courage 
of the momentous occasion, such has never
been the case in any age of the world; but
there are always some who feel the stirrings
of the noble impulses that lead forward the
multitudes who follow on slowly after
them, when once the highway has been
cast up, and so it will be now. The gener-
ations after will realize perhaps more than
those of today, the greatness and magnitude
of this mammoth undertaking that reaches
out to all nations, to come hither to this
goodly land Columbia and compare ways,
means and methods, as well as material ex-
hibits.
	From time to time we have published in
regard to what women are doing, and it is
desirable, that the women of this Territory
should make themselves familiar with the
general arrangements, so that they may
not fall far behind in intelligence, methods
or positive information. There are many
notes of matters pertaining thereto in the
various publications of the day. The
DESERET EVENING NEWS contains, from
time to time, the latest telegrams in refer-
ence to these matters, also the Salt Lake
HERALD and other daily papers, so that any
one need not be ignorant in reference to
what is being done elsewheie as well as in
Utah.


WOMEN’S PAPERS.

	READING recently an editorial, published
in the Woman's Tribune,—the statement
of Mrs. Colby, the Editor, and by the way,
a very able and efficient person for that
position, in reference to the low price of the
paper and the paying circulation, the
similarity of the circumstances to our little
EXPONENT, seemed to call for something
on the subject in our columns.
	Mrs. Colby says the price of the paper
does not pay; but she has been in a large
measure doing missionary work in the suf-
frage cause and so forth; and finally as a
result of the lack of money patronage finds
herself obliged to issue for the present, four
pages instead of eight as heretofore; a step
she says which may be considered back-
ward. Formerly the paper was issued
monthly, then she made it weekly for the
same price etc;—but without capital to back
it, this missionary work has fallen heavily
upon a struggling periodical, this and much
more sound logic bearing upon the same
question.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT has done and
is doing missionary work in many respects,
and has not been patronized as it actually
deserves to have been, considering what it
has done, and is doing all the time for the
women of this Territory, and of the Church
of Latter-day Saints throughout all the
Stakes of Zion.
	Whenever any subject pertaining to wo-
men is being treated upon historically or
generally, the EXPONENT is the record re-


ferred to; this has been spoken of so often
seems almost to have passed into a proverb,
in reference to ihe Relief Society that it
but yet some whose influence should
help in this matter almost ignore the fact
of its service to the organizations, and upon
questions of woman’s advancement.
	Would it not be well to make a little 
extra exertion to sustain the first woman’s,
paper started in this Rocky Mountain region,
and actually the first except one “The New
North West” so far as the writer has been
able to ascertain after diligent inquiry, this
side the Mississippi River.
	The Utah Woman Suffrage Association
members should patronize this paper, be-
cause it publishes all minutes of the meet-
ings held here and in other parts of the
Territory whenever possible; and also all 
notices of meetings and conventions in the
interest of suffrage elsewhere,that will give
the ladies here the information required to
speed them onward in the path of progress
politically. The general news of women
should be a sufficient impetus without going
into details to increase the circulation, so
that the money might be forthcoming to
sustain it; it should be remembered that al-
though a few may be very prompt in pay-
ments that many are not, and consequently
delays in issuing, because there must be
means on hand to pay down printer’s and ’
postage bills, and some other incidental ex-
penses. Times are hard and many demands
are made, but the women of Utah should
sustain their own paper, that represents the
cause in which they are engaged, rather
than the papers that have no special inter-
est for them, or the cause nearest and
dearest to their hearts.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	MRS. S. M. KIMBALL one of the best
known women in the community and who
has done a great deal of entertaining, spent
her birthday recently by making a party
for the widows and aged women of the
locality; cheering them with this social
reunion and also with a delicious dinner, all
the ladies came and went in carriages at
her expense. The company enjoyed them-
selves very much and will never forget the
occasion. Such tributes to the worth and
experience of friends are far more delight-
ful and longer remembered than more ex-
pensive parties might be. 
	MRS. KIMBALL also made a party for the
teachers and committees, or aids in the
Relief Society of that Ward which was al-
so a most enjoyable affair, and conducted in
a very social way that made it particularly
pleasant and satisfactory.
	THE Columbian ball which was given in
the Theatre to raise funds for the exhibit to
be made by this Territory, was quite an
elaborate affair in some respects, and yet
not extravagant, and those who are fond of
dancing must have felt well repaid for the
means expended. The ladies of the Com-
mittee spared no pains in working up the
matter, even to going out in the several
districts and selling tickets themselves,
when it seemed as though the people could
not quite appreciate the situation, and the
need of raising funds to purchase material, 
and for other expenses necessary in the ar-
ranging of matters to make suitable, ex-
hibits.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORK FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR.

	The Bureau of Applied Arts for the Wo-
man’s Department of the World’s Fair has
been placed in charge of Mrs. Candace
Wheeler for New York State. It includes:
applied and decorative painting; stained
glass and glass mosaics; modeling and
plastic ornament; wood-carving, inlaid and
gilded woods; designing and construction
of furniture wall hangings; modem tex-
tiles needle-wrought tapestries and em-
broideries; gold and silver work; pottery
and porcelains; book-covers and book-
binding, etc. The chairman of the Indus-
trial Department for the State is Miss Anna
Roosevelt. This committee desires infor-
mation in regard to the number of wage-
earners or self-supporting women; also
those employed in factories, shops and of-
fices; owning and controlling farms; en-
gaged in mining; in horticulture and flori-
culture; in the professions; in domestic ser-
vice as authors; as teachers; in art-work
and designing; in literary work, or in other
lines.
	National labor statistics should furnish
better data for this work than could be ob-
tained from private and individual sources.
But the data concerning organizations and
societies of women have been added to the
work of the National Industrial Department
by the national board, and its chairman,
Mrs. Helen M. Barker, receives and desires
information respecting name, age, object,
officers, membership, source of income, ex-
penditures.
	The Woman’s Dormitory Association, of
which Mrs. Matilda B. Case, of Chicago, is
president, addresses itself to all single and
self-supporting women. Ten dollars buys
a share which will be taken at any dormi-
tory of the association in payment for lodg-
ing bills. Two persons may use at one time
a single share. These shares will be trans-
ferable, and if the face value is not used by
the holder during her stay, it can be made
over to another, who can use the balance.
After the ten dollars has been used, the
share still stands on the books, credited to
the holder, and she will be entitled to her
pro rata share of the profits, if a surplus
remains after the enterprise is closed. The
rate per day will not exceed forty cents to
stockholders. Each person must engage
her room at least one month before coming,
in order to be sure of accommodation at
that time, and in making application for
stock must state what month and what part
of that month she desires to make use of it.
	The New York State board of women
managers have arranged for an exhibit of
the kitchen garden system at the World’s
Fair. This system was founded by Miss
Emily Huntington at the Wilson Industrial
School, 125, St. Mark’s Place, New York
City, a few years ago, and is in operation
at the present time all over this country.
By its means little children are taught how
to do all kinds of housework, from washing
dishes to dusting a room and making beds,
and this teaching goes on to the accompani-
ment of appropriate songs, so that it is like
play.
	The exhibit will be made in the Children’s
Building, where not only all the furnishings
and paraphernalia of a kitchen garden will
be shown, but where at stated hours the
children themselves will go through the ex-
ercises and thus make a practical exhibit.
It is probable that about once a week there
will be an exhibition of two hundred child-
ren on the floor at one time.


Miss Emily Huntington has consented
to superintend the work herself, and it is
believed that this will be one of the most in-
teresting exhibits organized by women.
	The model kitchen and cooking-school
exhibit, which is also to be carried on un-
der the auspices of the New York State
board of women managers, will prove very
attractive. Cooking is looked upon now
almost as a fine art, and the cooking-school
has become one of the recognized branches
in educational institutions. Miss Juliet
Corson, the originator of the cooking-school,
has tendered her services to the board of wo-
men managers free of charge, and once or
twice a day will give a lecture with practi-
cal demonstrations. This exhibit will be
made in the Woman’s Building.
	These are the two exhibits to which the
women managers of New York have given
their greatest energy up to the present time,
but they are organizing several loan exhibits
which will not only be of great intrinsic
value, but will form a means of education
to workers in the different branches of art
which they represent.
	While there is no definite scheme for a
philanthropic exhibit as yet, it is believed
that a few of the most prominent organiz-
ations will be memorialized in a way to in-
terest sight-seers and do credit to the founders
of the institutions.
	The reports from the various judicial dis-
tricts throughout the State are most en-
couraging. The women managers have
organized sub-committees in nearly all the
counties, and while there are not always
tangible results in the shape of applications
for women’s exhibits, interest is awakened
and there is a local pride shown to bring out
everything that women have done worthy
of being recorded.
	The members of the sub-committee en-
deavor first to obtain the co-operation of the
editors of local papers, for through them
knowledge of the workings of the commit-
tees and of the share women are to have in
the Exposition is best disseminated.—The
New Cycle.


[Column 1]
THE REFORMATION
	Taken within its narrowest limits the
period occupied by the great movement
known as the Protestant Reformation may
be looked upon as commencing with the
year 1517—and drawing to a close in 1545.
It marks the transitional state from long
established Catholicism to a recognized and
growing Protestantism—it commenced with
the teachings of Luther, wherein he re-
nounced much of the Catholic doctrine —and
later the assembling of the Councils of Trent
raised an insuperable barrier between the 
communion of Rome and the Churches of
Protestantism. From that time each com-
munion possessed its distinctive organization
and formulary of faith, and the struggles
which subsequently took place between
Romanism and Protestantism represent
not so much endeavors to bring about, or
resist reform—but endeavors on the part of
each communion to bring about the de-
struction of the other, and the contest which
Luther initiated resulted in complete and
irreparable rupture between the contending
parties.
	The world was tottering on its old foun-
dations when Christianity appeared, the re-
ligion which had sufficed for an earlier time,
no longer satisfied the nations, the mind of
the existing generation could no longer
tabernacle in the convenient forms; the gods

[Column 2]
of the nations had lost their oracles as the
nations had lost their liberty in Rome.
Brought face to face in the Capital they had
mutually destroyed the illusion of their
divinity, a vast void had ensued in the re-
ligious opinion sof mankind—a much simi-
lar condition existed at the birth-time of
Luther and marked the transition from the
mediaeval for the modern era in European
history.
	The corruptions and profligacy of the 
Roman Catholic Church was at its height.
The celebrated and scandalous tax of in-
dulgences are extant, were in full operation, a
mind of the least delicacy would be shocked
at the repetition of the horrors therein con-
tained. Incest was to cost if not detected
five groschen, if known or flagrant, six.
A certain price was affixed to murder,
another to infanticide, adultery, perjury,
burglary &c. "Oh! Shame to Rome," ex-
claims Clauthius of Espera-and we may
add "Oh! shame to human nature," for no
reproach can attach to Rome, which does
not recoil with equal force, on mankind in
general. Boniface VIII. the boldest and
most ambitious of the Popes after Gregory
VII. effected still more than his predecess-
ors had done. He published a call by which
he declared to the Church, that all who
should at that time make the pilgrimage to
Rome, which should take place every hun-
dred years, should there receive plen-
ary indulgence. Upon this, multitudes
flocked from Italy, Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica,
France, Spain, Germany, Hungary, and
other quarters. Old men of sixty and
seventy set out on the pilgrimage and it
was computed 200,000 visited Rome in one
month. All these foreigners, brought with
them rich offerings, and the Pope and the
Romans saw their coffers replenished; the
avarice of the Pontiffs soon fixed the jubi-
lee at intervals of fifty years. Afterward
at thirty three years, and at last at twenty-
five. Then for the greater convenience of the
purchasers and to increase the profits of the
venders, they transferred both the jubilee
and its indulgences, from Rome to all the
market places of Christendom; what others
had been obliged to seek beyond the Alps
each might obtain at his own door.
	The evil was at its height, and then the Re-
former arose. The principle which was de-
signed to govern Christianity had been lost.
	To set up a single caste as mediators
between God and man, and to barter in
exchange for works and penances, and gold,
the salvation freely given by God, such was
Popery.
	To open wide to all, through
Jesus Christ and without any earthly
mediators, and without that power that
called itself the Church, free access to the
gift of God, Eternal Life. Such was
Christianity, and such was the Reformation.
	Popery interposes the Church between
God and man.
	Christianity and the Reformation brings
God and man face to face.
	Popery separates man from God, the Gos-
pel reunited them, such were some of the
teachings of Luther.
	Luther was born on the tenth day of 
November 1433, on St. Martin's Eve, at
Eisleben, Germany. The next day the father
with joy and gratitude carried his son to
St. Peter's Church, they named him Martin
in memory of the day.
	All things were ready, God who prepares
his work for ages accomplishes it when the 
time is come, by the feeblest instruments.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


It is the method of God’s providence, to ef-
fect great results by inconsiderable means.
This law which pervades the kingdom of
nature, is discerned also in the history of
mankind. God chose the reformers of the
Church from the same conditions and world-
ly circumstances, from whence he had be-
fore taken the Apostles. The father of
Luther gradually made his way and estab-
lished at Mansfield two small furnaces for
iron. By the side of these furnaces, little
Martin grew up and it was with the earn-
ings of this industry, that his father was
afterwards able to place him at school. It
was from a Miner’s fireside, that one who
was to recast vital Christianity was to go
forth.
	John Martin in conformity with his pre-
dilections resolved to make his son a scholar.
That new world of light and science which
was everywhere producing vague excite-
ment, reached even to the cottage of the
Miller. The remarkable character and per-
severing application of his son, made John
conceive the highest hopes of his success.
At the age of fourteen Martin with a com
panion, the son of a respectable burgher,
set out for Madgeburg the school of the
Franciscans, Madgeburg was like a new
world to joyous Martin. In the midst of nu-
merous privations, he observed and listened.
A provincial of the Augustine order, was
then preaching with great zeal, the necessity
of reforming religion and the Church.
Perhaps these discourses deposited in the
soul of the youth—the earliest germ of the
thought which a later period unfolded.
	This was a severe apprenticeship for
Luther cast upon the world at fourteen
without friends or protectors. He trembled
in the presence of his masters, and in his
play hours, he and some children as poor
as himself, with difficulty begged his bread.
At Christmas time he remarked, “we would
all go together through the neighboring
villages from house to house, singing, in
concert the usual carols, on the infant
Jesus born at Bethlem,” more than once
over-whelmed with sorrow, he shed many
tears in secret. He could not look to the
future without trembling. One day in
particular, after having been repulsed, from
three houses he was about to return fasting,
to his lodging, when having reached the
place, St. George, he stood before the house
of an honest burgher—motherless and lost
in painful reflections, must he for want of
bread give up his studies and go and work
with his father in the Mines of Mansfield,
suddenly the door opens—a woman appears
on-the threshold, her name was Ursula—
the chronicles of the place call her the Pious,
Shunamite, in remembrance of her who
so earnestly entreated the Prophet Elijah to
eat bread with her. She had more than once
remarked young Martin in the assemblies
of the faithful, she had been affected by the
sweetness of his voice and his apparent
devotion. She now came to his assistance,
bade him enter her dwelling and supplied
his urgent wants.
	Conrad the husband of the good woman
approved his wife’s benevolence, and him-
self found so much pleasure in the society
of young Luther, that in a few days later
he took him to live in his house. From
that moment he no longer feared to be
obliged to relinquish his studies, later on
we find him at a higher institution, of learn-
ing where he most brilliantly distinguished
himself, “the whole University’’ says
Melancthon “admired his genius.”
	[To be Continued.]


[Column One]
	FOREIGN LETTER. 
	[TO MRS. MARY W. MUSSER.] 
	November 7th, 1892.
My Dearest Mother:—
	If my memory serves me well it was just
forty six years ago to day since the world
was made better by the birth of a baby girl,
whose parents, on account of her extreme
loveliness, named her after the queen of
heaven, Mary. Since then this little girl
has grown to womanhood and has proven
beyond a doubt, especially to her large
family of children, of whom I boast being
one that she is the loveliest and best moth-
er in the whole world. Born as our
Savior, though not in a manger, in a place
nearly as humble, a lumber wagon, she
traveled on through her rather humble path-
way until now, forty six years later, she
is, in my estimation, queen Mary II. or
Mary queen of earth with the brightest
kind of prospects of being queen Mary,
with the chosen in eternity. Heaven
bless you dearest mother, and grant that
this birthday is just the noon of your im-
mortal, probation, and that the afternoon
will so out shine the forenoon that the lat-
ter will be lost in darkness. That your
every hour, as the sun grows warmer and
nears the horizon, will be happier and fuller
of real bliss than its precedent. That when
the sun at last sinks to rest, and the angels
come with sweetest music to bear you over
the silvery river, you may be surrounded
by a loving posterity who have lived and
are living in such a way as to insure our
meeting again in that world where all is
love and contentment. This, mother dear,
is my most sincere wish and prayer; could
I wish or pray for more? If so I do with
all my heart for I know the occasion justifies
my so doing. Your birthday! How I
should love to be home to day, to be able to
tell you how much your children love you,
and how hard it is to live away from you.
How impossible! Land and sea to the ex-
tent of ten thousand miles separates mother
from her son. As it is I scarcely have time
to write a respectable letter for I am head
over heels in my Arabic studies, and as I
have employed a teacher to give me a few
lessons I am anxious to make hay while the
sun shines. Besides I have lost so much
time in this mission that it seems I never
can pay up for it, you see when I first came
to Turkey I started to study the Turkish
language, for three months I pegged away
at it and had just got a good start when I
left Constantinople thinking I could study
the language better here in Palestine.
When I arrived here I found that they
spoke nothing but Arabic in this part of the
country. I decided to leave Bro. Haag
here to labor with the Arabs and I would
go farther north where they spoke Turkish
and continue my studying. Bro. Haag was
taken sick and you know the rest. I had
to remain in this part of the country and
accordingly started to learn a third language
in a year and a half, within the year and a
half that I had been away from home, it
seems like I have lost with the Turkish
language about five months, and now I had
to start on another, the most difficult of
all. I know the Lord has blessed me with
this language for I make better progress
than I did with either of the others.
	It is over a month since I heard from any
one on the American side of the Atlantic.
Day after day the Postmaster shakes his
head with a bland smile as I poke mine
through the window with a “Anything for

[Column Two]
Musser this morning?” I am quite sure
some of my mail has been lost on the way.
There was a wreck here a few days ago, I
stood calmly on the shore and watched
twenty five persons drown. Twenty four
hours after, a bunch or package, of my
mail was picked up on shore where the mad
waters had been kind enough to throw it.
It was a package of newspapers that had
been two months on the way. One of the
gentlemen that was wrecked had a letter in
his pocket for me: but in his struggle for 
life he lost it, and I don’t know who it was
from or anything about it. The gentleman
that lost it lost his wife and two bright
children at the same time.
	My health remains “A No!" for which
I feel to thank the Lord. The weather is 
still very hot, the oranges are just getting 
ripe.—I bought a dozen the other day, great
large luscious ones for five cents and I firm-
ly believe, by the way the orange vender
smiled as he pocketed my cash, that he
charged me three cents too much. Give
my love to father and all the loved ones
and accept a bushel from your affectionate
son. 			Don C. W. Musser.


ANNOUNCEMENT.
[The Twenty-fifth Annual Convention of the 
	National American Woman Suffrage 
	Association.]
	To arouse that divine discontent which
shall make women ashamed to remain long-
er in the attitude of wards in their own
country; to stir the dormant sense of justice 
which shall make men unwilling to monopo-
lize all power, as if women were not to be
trusted—such is the task of the coming 
Twenty-fifth Annual Convention of the 
National American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation. This Convention will be held in
Metzerott’s Music Hall, corner F and 12th
Streets, N. W., Washington, D. C., January 
14 to 19, 1893.
	Until women are enfranchised, they can-
not be considered free moral agents. Their
influence over their children is hampered,
their attempts at work of philanthropy en-
feebled, their position in the industrial
world endangered, so long as they remain
political minors, constrained to obey laws
which they have no voice in making. 
	The mission of the National American
Woman Suffrage Association is to awaken 
public opinion to the necessity of bringing 
the practice of the United States Govern- 
ment into harmony with its professed prin-
ciples. Professing itself a government of the
people, it is actually an oligarchy of men.
Professing that the “citizens of each State
shall be entitled to all privileges and im-
munities in the several States,” this United 
States Government permits the States de-
liberately to deprive one-half its people— 
its women—of the only legitimate means of
taking part in the government—the use of
the ballot.
	Such glaring inconsistency between pro-
fession and practice is to be condemned in 
the interest of public morality.
	In laboring to obtain their enfranchise-
ment, women work, therefore, not only for
themselves but for the establishments of
national honor and the elevation of the
whole human race.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
REV. ANNA H. SHAW, Vice-Pres.-at-large.
RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Secretary.
ALICE STONE BLACKWELL, Rec. Secretary.
HARRIET TAYLOR UPTON, Treasurer.
WM. DUDLEY FOULKE, Auditor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. P. A. REPORTS.

        BEAR LAKE.
	THE Relief Society Conference of the
Bear Lake Stake convened in the St. Charles
Meeting House Sat. 26th at ten a. m.
	The Relief Society Stake Presidency
were present, Prest. J. P. Lindsay presided.
After the usual opening exercises the roll
was called, minutes of last conference were
read and approved after which the statisti-
cal and financial report was read. Eight
branches were reported by Presidents or
representatives, nine not reported.
	The speakers were Prest. Julia P. Lind-
say, Coun. E. Collins, Prest. N. E. Pug-
mire of the Y. L. M. I. A and Prest. An-
nie Laker of Primary Association. Their
remarks were timely and interesting; they
dwelt upon the importance of woman’s
mission, and the necessity of her being en-
ergetic in order to accomplish that which is
required of her. Choir sang. Benediction
by Elder C. C. Kutch.
	Sunday 2 p. m. (Prest. Wm. Budge
present.)  After singing and prayer, the
sacrament was administered to the congre-
gation, during which time the choir sang, 
"Ye children of our God."  The speakers
were Prest. Lindsay, Coun. L. M. Hart
and Elder Lashbrook Laker.
	The subjects dwelt upon were refinement,
cultivation of the mind and the necessity
of doing something to create an interest
with those who are negligent in attending
their meetings.
	Prest. Lindsay spoke of the necessity of
storing grain, did not wish the sisters to
slacken in the least in this duty, it is our
duty because we have been counseled to do
so by those who are placed over us. Con-
ference adjourned for six months, choir
sang, Benediction by Prest. Wm. Budge.
	R. S. Sec. Bear Lake Stake.


FAR WEST
Editor EXPONENT:
	THE Relief Society of Far West is a
small branch, each family lives on their own
Farm, and consequently not handy to attend
meetings regularly. We held our semi-
monthly meeting with a good attendance.
Previous to the departure of our beloved
Prest. Mary Hegsted to join her husband
at Snake River, the Relief Society met
at the Hall to bid her farewell, and good
speed, as well as their well wishes, and the
blessing of our Heavenly Father on her fu-
ture welfare. Sister Hegsted went to Og-
den in the morning, so our worthy Bishop
Mc.Intyre sent her and family an invitation
to meet in the Hall at four o’clock p. m;
when Sister Hegsted arrived nearly every
member of the Relief Society the Bishop
and Counselors and a goodly number of our
leading brethren were present. A table was
spread from the stand to the door full of all
the dainties, orchards, and farms can pro-
duce with skillful cooking. After a few
minutes, all were seated, thanks returned,
and all enjoyed a good repast. Table clear-
ed;—in a few brief words the Bishop stated
the object of the meeting, a nice shawl from
the Provo Mills and a dress pattern were
presented to Sister Hegsted by the sisters,
also a nice Hymn Book with her name in-
scribed. Sister Hegsted was overcome
with joy, and in a few well directed words
accepted the gifts, and appreciated the good
feelings of her dear sisters who worked
hand in hand with her for eleven years.
	On November 3rd a reorganization took


place with the following officers Mary A.
Stevenson Prest. Esther D. Brown, and
Sarah Randall Counselors Christena Hegsted
Sec. Susan Painter Ass’t Sec. Jane Rawson,
Treas. Stake Counselors Harriet Brown and
Sarah Herrick were present from Ogden;
many good instructions, and much good
counsel given, union and a good spirit pre-
vailed. Ever praying for the welfare of the
EXPONENT.
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel,
			MARY A. STEVENSON, Prest.
			CHRISTENA HEGSTED, Prest.


ONEIDA STAKE.

	FIRST quarterly Conference of the
Oneida Stake Relief Society was held at
Weston Dec. 4th 1892.
	Present of Relief Society Stake Presidency
was President Elizabeth Fox and Counselor
Mary Hawks. President Fox presiding.
Singing “How pleased and blessed was I.”
Prayer by Bishop Lewis of Oxford. Sing-
ing, “Afflicted Saints.”
	Prest. E. Fox made a few opening re-
marks and minutes of the Weston Relief
Society meeting of Dec. 1st were read and
accepted; reports were then given by the
following Presidents, Elizabeth Clark of
Weston, Sister Louis of Oxford, Louisa
Benson of Whitney, Sister Bingham of
Clifton, all gave very favorable and en-
couraging reports.
	Sister Hawks spoke of training the young
and of mothers being qualified to teach,
govern and control their children. That
our homes should be ruled by love, and
gave many other good instructions.
	Bro. L. Hawks, a missionary just returned
from New Zealand, spoke of the blessings
we enjoyed here in our mountain home com-
pared with other nations; said the Elders
were doing a good work among the natives;
related some of his experiences, and testified
to the truth of this work. Sang a verse in
the Maori language.
	Bishop Lewis, was well pleased with the
reports and instructions given. Spoke of
the benefits of the Relief Society. Con-
ference adjourned until 2 p. m. singing “In
the work of the Lord,” Benediction by
Bishop John H. Clark.
	At 2 p. m. Conference continued singing,
“Awake Saints of God Awake’ Prayer
by Brother Benson, of Whitney, singing
“Hail to the Brightness.”  Sacrament was
then administered, singing, “How great the
Wisdom.” 
	The Prest. of the Fairview R. S. then
gave a report of their work which was en-
couraging. Prest. E. Fox then addressed
the congregation, gave many good instruct-
ions, spoke of the benefits and necessities
of attending the meetings. Said that we
should cultivate the spirit of God. Teach
the principles of the Gospel to our children
that we should help and assist in building
up the kingdom of God, also spoke of cloth-
ing the dead properly.
	The officers of the R. S. of Oneida Stake
were presented and unanimously sustained.
	Sister Hawks made very encouraging re-
marks also Bishop Clark of Weston.
	Brother M. F. Cowley exhorted the Saints
to forsake all evil, that love and the Spirit
of the Lord should unite us together, and
prepare us to receive the blessings of God,
that mothers should control their children
by that Spirit. Spoke of our pre-existence,
and of the many duties devolving upon us.
Said that Prest. Woodruff had said, that if
it took a month, all who were worthy should


have the privilege of going to the dedication
of the Salt Lake Temple, invoked the bles-
sings of God upon all.
	Prest. Elizabeth Fox reminded the sis-
ters of the necessity of storing up grain.
	Singing "Jerusalem my Glorious Home."
Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Peter Mickelsen.
	ELIZABETH GRASSMAN, 	Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GREAT difficulties bring out great vir-
tues. 
	A GREAT  person  is known by his ca-
luminators.
	BETTER part with our dignity than your
safety. 
	LOVE sought is good, but given unsought
is better.
	THE English laws punish vice.  The
Chinese laws do more; they reward virtue.
—Goldsmith.
	THE liberties of the press and the liberties
of the people must stand or fall together.—
Hume.
	HE that would make real progress in
knowledge must dedicate hisage as well as
youth, the latter growth as well as the first
fruits, at the altar of truth.—Berkeley.
	AT the inauguration of the Populists in
Kansas, among the speakers announced
were Mrs Annie L. Diggs and Mrs. Mary
E. Lease.
	MRS. MAUDE HOWE ELLIOTT, daughter
of Julia Ward Howe, is about to enter on
the stage, as public lecturer, and begins
with an address on the Salvation Army in
Boston.
	THE Woman's Tribune was issued
daily during the national suffrage conven-
tion at Washington. Send ten cents for the
five numbers to Mrs. Clara B. Colby, 1325
Tenth Street, N. Y., Washington D. C. 
	FRANCES WILLARD and LADY HENRY
SOMERSET are addressing great meetings
in England, amid much enthusiasm. A
monster reception was lately given Miss
Willard by the English Methodists.
	“PARTIES of friends or families desiring
to rent furnished one or two flats, twenty-
five minutes by rail from Columbian Ex-
position grounds, Chicago, can do so by ap-
plication to Ella Tremain Whitford, Harvey,
Ill. Good references exchanged.”
	MRS. MICHA DYER, president of the
Woman’s Charity Club of Boston is re-
ported to be a member of twenty-three clubs
and societies. Of three, she is president,
and until recently she was at the head of
the Ladies’ Association.
	THE Conversational Club of the East
End, Cleveland, O., is stndying “The
Problems of the day.” Among the topics
are “Taxes,” “Immigration,” “The Tar-
ff,” “Commercial and Political Ethics,”
and “Sanitary Science.”
	A ST. LOUIS woman has lately perfected
a singular invention. She has applied for
a patent to cover the process of making
"sweet potato flour." The processes are
those of peeling the potato and kiln-drying
the peel so that it will keep for any length
of time as a food for live stock; of drying
and grinding the potato into three distinct
grades of flour, and also of slicing and dry-
ing it in the form of “Saratoga chips.”


WHAT a grand thing it is to feel that we
can live if we will! It wants only the wish
to be morally great—the wish translating
itself into moral endeavor. We can all at-
tain that supremacy and to the weakest
and poorest debarred by nature and society
from personal prosperity is opened the noble
path of moral grandeur—the royal road of
virtue.
	MARGARET DELAND, the novelist, is fond
of snakes. One summer, when she was
boarding in the country, the land-lord, al-
though very loath to lay any restrictions
upon his charming guest, was finally
obliged to tell her that he must ask her to
discontinue her habit of bringing home
snakes and keeping them in her room, as it
was a cause of great uneasiness to the other
boarders.
	BY invitation of the officers of the Colum-
bian Exposition, the General Federation of
Women’s Clubs will hold a council in Chica-
go next July. Mrs. Fanny P. Palmer, of
the Providence (R. I.) Women’s Club, is
chairman of the committee of the General
Federation for the World’s Fair. The New
Cycle for December, contains a portrait of
Mrs. Palmer.
	A SOCIETY unique among women’s or-
ganizations of a national character is the
Woman’s Republican Association of the
United States. The decision of this society
to become a member of the National Coun-
cil of women of the United States adds
greatly to the value of the latter organization,
the aim of which is to represent not num-
bers but ideas.
	At the present writing the National Coun-
cil of women consists of thirteen national
organizations of women pursuing thirteen
different lines of work all for the betterment
of the present conditions and the uplifting
of humanity.  Among these are missionary
societies and associations for the furtherance
of education peace, social purity, suffrage,
temperance, and philanthropy.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	WE are calledto mourn the death of our belov
ed Sister Isabella Hood Hill Hamilton, who died
of dropsy and heart disease Dec. 2nd 1892. She
was born on the 18th day of Aug. 1849, at Scotts
Bluffs, now State of Wyoming. Daughter of
Patriarch Alexander and Agnes Hood Hill. Mar-
ried Nov. 28th 1870, to Bishop James C. Hamilton.
Sister Hamilton was the mother of fourteen chil-
dren, eight sons and six daughters ten of whom
are living, who with their surviving parent feel
their loss very severely.
	Sister Isabella was a member of the Relief
Society and for many years held the office of
teacher, she was faithful in the performance of her
duties working for the benefit of the Society in
visiting the poor, and comforting those in trouble.
	She was quiet and unassuming in her disposition
but firm in the principles of her religion, in the
persecutions that the Saints have had to endure,
she passed through many trying times when her
husband suffered imprisonment for his religious
belief, she bore up with fortitude and patience,
and many testimonies she bore to the truth of the
Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	She was a loving wife and mother one of those
precious ones whom to know, is to love her kin-
dred ties are numerous there being a large family
of brothers and sisters relatives and friends, to
mourn her loss. Our heart-felt sympathy is ex-
tended to the bereaved family.
	Dear Sister we feel that your home mission has
been filled, the Spirit has been released from its
earthly Tabernacle to perform a work beyond the
veil. Your memory will ever be enshrined in the
hearts of your co-laborers of the Relief Society.
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward House Dec. 5th 1892 notwithstanding it
being a very stormy day, the house was packed
to its utmost.
	Services were conducted by Counselor James


Hanson: appropriate remarks were made by
President Joseph E. Taylor, Bishop D. B. Brin-
ton. Bishop John Neff, C. Jance Hanson, and
several of the brethren.
	The remains were followed to the Salt Lake
cemetery, by a concourse of relatives and friends
to pay their last respects to the dear departed one.
The grave was dedicated by James T. Walters.
	ELIZABETH HILL, Pres.
	FRANCES H. HANSON. Sec.


OBITUARIES.

	RESOLUTION OF RESPECT to the memory of
Sister Permelia Drury Morrill who departed this
life, Sep. 6th 1892, at Coalville, Utah. She was
born on August 20th, 1821 and was married to
Laban Morrill at Nauvoo Ill. Febuary 22nd,
1877. Having joined the Church in an early day,
she passed through the persecution and the hard-
ships shared by the Saints in those days. She
was the mother of nine children, eight sons and
one daughter. She leaves a husband seven years
her senior six sons and one daughter with grand
children and friends to mourn her loss in our
midst she has been a worthy Counselor and Presi-
dent; her work is worthy of emulation by all who
knew her. Her faith and hope in the future
were unshaken. She had the respect of all and
has gone to rest to wait the resurrection morning.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
printed upon our minutes, a copy presented to
her family and one be published In the EXPO-
NENT.
	Why should you sorrow death is sweet,
 		To those that die in Jesus love,
	Though called to part you soon will meet, 
  		In holier, happier climes above.
	For all the faithful Christ will save
 		And crown with victory o’er the grave.

	There’s consolation in the blow, 
		Although it crush a tender tie,
	For while it lays its victim low,
		Death opens to the world’s on high, 
	Celestial glories proudly wave
		Above the confines of the grave.

	But where the light the glorious light,
		 Of revelation freely flows,
	Let reason faith and hope unite,
		 To hush our sorrows to repose,
	Through faith in Him who died to save
	We’ll shout Hosannah’s o’er the grave.
					SARAH J. SUDWEEKS.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect to the memory of Sis-
ter Mary Ellen Woodhouse White who departed
this life September 6th, 1892. She was born in
Adwick, Lee Street, Yorkshire, England June 21,
1848. Emigrated with her parents to St. Louis,
subsequently to Salt Lake Valley.
	Whereas,—Our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has removed from our midst our beloved
Sister Mary Ellen Woodhouse White, and—
	Whereas,—She labored faithfully as Treasurer
of the Relief Society, and was a generous and
useful member thereof, and a kind and well be-
loved companion, mother and neighbor. There-
fore be it—
	Resolved;—that we the officers and mem-
bers of the Beaver Ward Relief Society mourn
her loss, realiztng that we have lost an efficient
officer and noble sister.
	Resolved,—That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to her bereaved husband Elder S. O.
White, also to her children,—
	Resolved,—That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the Record of the Relief Society, and
a copy be sent to the bereaved family and to the
“WOMAN'S EXPONENT.”
				RUTH W. TYLER, President.
				ALICE M. T. TANNER, Secretary.
BEAVER CITY, Nov. 7th, 1892.

	IN memory of Sister Annie Mikesel and daugh-
ter of George and Frances H. Booth Hansen. De-
parted this life Oct. 22nd, 1892. Born Sept. 6th,
1860, at Mill Creek Ward, where she resided with
her parents until her marriage. She was a faith-
ful worker in the Sabbath School, an active mem-
ber in the Y. L. M. I. A. also Ass’t. Sec. in the
Relief Society. When the “Home Dramatic
Club” was organized in the Ward she was chosen
a member, in these duties she was faithful and ef-
ficient. She was very gentle and retiring in her
disposition. She was a dutiful daughter and de-
voted wife and mother.
	She was earnest in the work of God all her life,
in her dying moments she bore a strong testi-
mony to the truth of her religion, it seemed the
vision of the world to which she was so shortly
to be removed was opened to her view she spoke
words of encouragement to her broken hearted

[column 2]
husband, father, mother, sisters and relatives,
told them not to weep, for tomorrow would be
her brightest day. Sister Annie was the mother
of five children two boys and three girls. She
was called to part with her oldest a lovely boy
when eleven months old, also her second child a
beautiful girl at the age of sixteen months, which
was a severe trial.
	“Mother,” she would exclaim “I weep for my
children because they are not,” she has gone to
join them, where there is no more sickness or
sorrow. “Blessed are they that die in the Lord
for their reward is sure. May the Lord comfort
those that mourn.
	She leaves two lovely little girls and a baby
boy eight days old, a devoted husband, parents,
one brother and five sisters, to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held at the family
residence in the Fourth Ward, the speakers were
the Bishop’s Counselers of the Fourth Ward, also
Elders George Saville, and Joseph R. Carlisle of
Mill Creek Ward. The remarks were very con-
soling to the bereaved family. Brother Carlisle
spoke highly of Sister Mickesel he had been ac-
quainted with her from childhood. 
	Amongst these present were President E. Hill
and C. E. Snedaker of the Relief Society of Mill
Creek Ward, also Clara E. Carlisle President of
Y. L. M. I. A. and many other friends and asso-
ciates who came to pay their last respects to the
dear departed one.
					ALBERTINA J. NORTH.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,

Office: II South, First West Street
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
                      until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
      ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
           AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
                POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches. Millinery, latest
styles, flats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping dono to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 63 E. 	FIRST SOUTH STREET,
			Three doors west of Theatre.

	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p m

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash. House.

R.K.THOMAS
	
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	AVD JAMES, Box 888 SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

