Vol. 21. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1893 No. 19.


CONTENTS:
	Family Relations II.—S. W. Richards. In
Rural England—A. Story. Woman Suffrage at
the World’s Fair—Rachel Foster Avery. English
Women—Rachel Foster Avery. The Spirit of
Success—E. H. Lyon. Personal Reminiscences
- Gatha. U. W. P. Club—Ella W. Hyde. S. L.
Co. W. S. A.—Ella W. Hyde. Queen Elizabeth.
Notes and News. In Memoriam—F. S. Dell.
A Tribute of Respect. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—The Silk Industry. Editorial
Notes. The Utah Room—Camelia.
	POETRY:—The Rain Drop—D. C. Johnson.
Katie E. Merrill’s Grave—Alofa.


THE RAIN DROP.

Musing I sat at my window one day,
Gazing at the rain, as it pattered away
In pearly drops ’gainst, my window pane,
Of whither it goes and from whence it came.
I ’spied a drop, like a glistening pearl,
That fell from its mates in their giddy whirl; 
And I said, “pretty one, why do you roam?
Whence come ye and where is your home ?”
The drop thus replied, with faltering tone;
"I'm a waif, wandering from zone to zone;
To moisten dry earth and freshen its green,
I gladden and nourish all things terrene.
I came from the north where the storm kings
	reign,
Where Waden and Thor, with mythical train,
Do traverse in pomp with their antlered steeds,
O’er ice hills and snow as the hurricane speeds.
One day glittering on a glacier bright,
With gleesome heart and spirits light,
I, was caught, borne aloft by a thunder cloud,
That ’veloped me round in its sable shroud.
’Twas there I met with the numerous train, 
Like myself, gather’d where the Thunderers 
	reign,
Afar we were driven o’er sea and lands,
Hastening o’er the wilds and trackless sands.
I have watered the plants on Arabia’s plain,
Have nurtured the roots of the golden grain,
Replenished the brook and sparkling rills,
That flow through the vales, from a thousand
	hills.
I have mingled with floods, been raised, again,
'Descended full oft’ in the cheery rain,
Helped aloft once more by the sun’s warm light,
Then softly falling in the dews of night.
Lastly came I to your valley so free,
Caught and fell by a leaf on the tree,
From thence, dashed ’gainst, your window-pane
When the bright sun shines I’ll be off again.
	D. C. Johnson.


[Column1]
FAMILY RELATION.
 II.

[S.W. RICHARDS.]
	THE family relation involves the right of
choice, and to whom the right belongs.
	The right to choose implies a free-will;
agency, and independence; and upon the

[Column 2]
exercise of this right is based the responsi-
bility of all human acts, and by which they
become entitled to rewards or punishments.
	It is written, there are existing three in-
dependent principles, the spirit of God; the
spirit of man, and that of the Devil. Man
in his independent relation to the others has
the right to choose which he will serve—
to which he will yield submission. By the
one he is influenced to the good and right,
by the other he is enticed to the evil and
the wrong. Upon the choice he makes,
either happiness or misery ensues. The
consequences of that choice cannot be
avoided.
	Man, the lesser, by submitting to God
the greater has claim upon His support,
protection and that genial companionship
that contributes to his happiness, and makes
him a sharer of all the good that can be
bestowed by the strong upon the weak.
Like considerations apply in the relation of
the sexes.
	In either case the consequences of the
choice made effects both the present and the
future, reaching into Eternity for its final
adjustment and realization.
	This right of choice is of comparatively
like importance in establishing family re-
lations, as in the higher relation; and simi-
lar rules may be observed, to secure like
advantages, whether of a temporary or per-
petual mature.
	First the woman being the lesser, has the
right of choice as to who shall be her pro-
tector and to whom she will give her
allegiance. This right and exercise of
choice is what creates the obligation she is
under to the person chosen who may accept
the union desired. Of this right, above all
others, she should not be deprived. By per-
suasion she may be restrained from exercis-
ing it to her injury.
	The union consummated, rights involving
duties are secured by the man, and obliga-
tions are accepted by the woman.
	The important question now is, what are
these rights, duties and obligations? A
summary answer may be found in Scripture
language, “As Christ is the head of the
Church, so is man the head of the wo-
man.”
	Christ has promised that all those who
will live in unison with him and labor to
build up his kingdom, shall be made equal
with him, as he claims the right to be
equal with his Father, by laboring to
build up his Father’s Kingdom. The wife
has a right to claim like consideration from
her. husband.
	As the spirit of Christ, a spirit of love
and kindness, is given to and is exercised
toward those who are one with him; so the
wife has the right to demand and receive
like generous and ever-loving consideration
from her chosen head. All the promises
Christ has made to his followers, of peace,
joy and spiritual development, the husband
should use his best endeavors to secure to a
devoted wife. The husband must be
righteous, just and merciful in all his re-
quirements, to entitle him to the confidence
and love of his house hold.  He is only en-
titled to the love and regard of those who are

[Column 3]
in his care, as he shall love and honor Christ
in whose care he is. Indeed, a man must not
only be a Christian, but should have priest-
hood—the right to preside over the destiny
of others, before entering upon the duties
which he would owe to wife and family.
The family relation is in all respects an or-
dinance of Heaven, and can only be honor-
ed by carefully observing the order and
laws of its creation, and appointments.
	Only by the inspiration of God’s love
can any man fully appreciate what he owes
to a virtuous and devoted wife. "She is
more precious than rubies." But what of
the wife! This question of choice may be
a delicate one to a sensitive young lady as
most of them are; but as it has to be made
sooner or later, the question arises, by what
rules should she be governed in making it?
The nature of the covenant entered into
determines this. It is an eternal covenant
made in view of securing eternal blessings,
everlasting honor, glory and dominion.
These cannot be obtained through any un-
holy alliance or association. It is written,
“be ye not unequally yoked together with
unbelievers.”
	For a young lady to give herself to any
one who could not secure to her the object
of that union, would certainly be a very
great mistake. Nay, more, a most lament-
able calamity. While she is one with, she
cannot rise above the condition of excellence
in the one to whose destiny she is allied.
	The woman may be all that was designed
she should be, an help-meet for the man,
but the unappreciative man may not be
willing to receive help from her and by
her, all along the pathway to the exal-
tations and the lives that are glorified;
but however willing he may be, his ability
to do for her can only extend so far as he
has knowledge of the divine purpose, ac-
quired by divine inspiration. To obtain
this he must live by the laws of God; must
be a saint to be entitled to the blessings of
Abraham in the family of the faithful.
	It is most essential then, that on the
part of the woman, her choice be wisely
made; that she be able to discover elements,
attributes and desires, in the one to whom
she gives herself and love, able and willing
to secure to her and her increase, all that
God has promised to bestow upon those
who love Him.
	This family relation growing out of the
union of the sexes is of God for and to His
glory, and only by and under the influence
of His spirit and authority can its anticipated
results be realized.
	Would to God that more of the young
men in Zion were worthy of that fair
maiden’s love waiting to be theirs in the
new and everlasting covenant.
	In the home thus sanctified by the
presence of a bride, pure and lovely in her
sphere, as the Bride the Lamb’s wife must
be to her coming Bridegroom, Motherhood
is acquired; and by her, the increase in that
home in lives of innocence, purity and
loveliness, through which is to be developed
under that mother’s guidance, virtues of
faith, hope and charity; the same eternal
principles that find an abiding home in


heaven from whence the spirit-child has
come. An evidence of heaven’s approval
of such a place as home made holy by a
mother’s sacred presence and devotion.
	Home influence exerted and directed by a
mother’s love, is an abiding one, with those
who listen to her gentle teachings. It
reaches to old age, and brings the wanderer
back; it takes deep root down in the soul
where no evil can reach to entirely eradicate
it. It is an inheritance a mother bequeathes
to her children, and through them to gen-
erations yet unborn; a legacy more precious
than fine gold. Such a wife and mother
the husband and father delights to honor,
the heavens smile upon her with admiration,
and angels are the companions of her home
as ministering messengers, to the cherubs
in her care.
	Husband and wife, parents and children
are the prominent relations that constitute
the family and from which others grow.
	The family soon grow into a community,
which soon develops into society, and
society when properly organized becomes
the State, and as such demands recognition
everywhere. The State enacts laws for the
protection and well being of its citizens and
the perpetuity of its dominion. Judges
administer the laws, and justice by judg-
ment will maintain the rights of all; and if
righteousness is the foundation of all this
development, as determined by the law of
God who governs the universe and all things
therein, it becomes a part and parcel of our
Father’s dominion. He is from everlasting
to everlasting, and is King of Kings; or,
otherwise expressed, is King ever many
kings all of whom are reigning over their
own, and in their own right as kings and 
priests unto God. Their kingdoms also
shall be everlasting, and their dominions
shall never pass away.
	All this is to be realized in the family
relation, and can spring from no other
source. It is God’s plan, is of no human
device; as man’s organization perfectly
adapted to its consummation fully proves to
every intelligent being engaged in so grand 
a creative world. This wonderful adaptation
of the family for the object in view is suf-
ficient evidence of its divine origin.
	The foundation of kingdoms is thus laid
under the mutual guidance of father and
mother and the power of its endurance will
depend entirely upon the spiritual element
in which that foundation is laid. The
temporal, that which is of the earth, must
pass away; that which is spiritual and is from
heaven, must remain, and be held account-
able for the choice made while in this pro-
bation; if good, then peace and glory the
reward; if evil, then sorrow and misery; as
the justice and mercy of the father of the
spirits of all flesh shall determine.
	Our Father’s words and works are for
the “immortality and eternal life of man.’’
Man is the child of God, partaking of his 
spiritual and eternal nature, and how fear-
ful the responsibility of those to whom they
are entrusted for their education and 
development; that they may be able to 
dwell in His presence and abide His glory.
All such will have power to do for their
children, what God the Father has done for
His. The consummation of sublimest
thought—of heaven’s grand design.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXX
LADY WALTON'S visit to Italy was a
pleasure in almost every particular. She

[Column 2]
had a valuable companion, a woman of wit
and of tact, and she herself was bright and
of a charming personality. Her years
added dignity to her position and manner,
and left to herself, she had the self-poise
that gave her prestige wherever she went.
There was no hesitation about her as in the
days when Lord Walton was living to
scrutinize her every look and action. Be-
sides the bitter experience of the last few
years had so subdued her former imperious-
ness that her good qualities were more
noticable.
	The news she recieved from England was
not exactly satisfactory, but Maitland put
everything in the best light possible and
his letters were her chief source of informa-
tion. The young heir of the Walton's was
growing finely, the mother was regaining
her usual health again, and Dr. Bland and
family pursuing the even tenor of their
way. Word has been received form Clair
and Mr. Harrison who were enthusiastic in
regard to the country, the tropical fruits etc.
but no word came of their return to England.
	Lady Anna Walton as soon as she was
able to go out, rode over to her counsin's and
from thence to the old castle to which she
seemed now more fondly attached than ever
before. The romance of her courtship and
secret interviews with Maitland (her lower)
were sweeter in her memory than the
realities of her everyday life with the hus-
band. She loved her babe in her own
dreamy way, but she only saw him now and
then when the nurse thought proper, when
she had asked for him at first, she was re-
minded that she was not equal to such an
exertion, and her maternal affection had not
been strengthened by the constant care and
hourly association of mother  and child, as
in the case of women who nurse their own
infants. She noticed on her first visit to
Dr. Bland's how very tender and solicitous
her cousin was with her little boy, and re-
marked languidly, "Cousin mine, how I
wish I could be allowed to have my baby to
myself as you have, I should be so much
happier, I am so lonely and Maitland is
never at home, my fancy work don't inter-
est me now and Clair is away, and there is
no music, and I am too weak to play by
myself, besides when I touch the harp, my
heart is too full-and-" here Lady Anna
broke down with a sob and a sigh, too much
overcome to proceed further. Her cousin
was deeply affected and scarcely knew
what she ought to say—but simply replied,
"that is one of the disadvantages of titled
people, there are so many things that people
enjoy that would not be 'correct' in society
where you move; I would rather be associated
with my babe than have the distinction of
nobility of rank!”
	“Sometimes I think so,” replied Lady
Walton, “but I am not even privileged to
think for myself." though her sobs almost
choked her utterance. Mrs. Bland was
careful not to say too much on this subject,
she would have been glad to take her to
her bosom and caress her, as one would a
child, but she dared not lest it would have
caused still further excitement, and she
knew how necessary it was that she should
be kept as calm as possible, for her condition
was such as to cause one who saw it plainly
great anxiety. Maitland knew very little
about women, or how to care for one so
fragile as his young wife; his mother was
comparatively strong and he had known
very little sickness, in fact his life had been
a very idle and useless one, and now in his

[Column 3]
manhood he was not prepared for any strug-
gle with difficulties, or any emergency, but
shrank from all that was in the least of an
unpleasant nature.
	At the time of this interview with Lady
Walton, Mrs. Bland was in her own morn-
ing room, with baby amusing himself while
she industriously plied her needle, and in-
deed the room and its inmates were a pretty
picture of serenity and content. It was a
plain room with only simple furniture, for 
the doctor was only well to do and his wife
had too much thought of the futre to be
extravagant in her home. The windows
looked towards the garden and the sweet
perfume of the flowers was in the air, and 
the scene was pleasant; it was a chilly
morning rather, and there was a bright fire
in the grate, and a brighter smile on the
face of mother and child.
	Lady Anna sat thinking of the spirit of 
happiness that rested upon her cousin and
wondered at her own discontent, her cousin
half divining her thoughts said, "Anna
what would make life happier, is there any-
thing I can do for you or my husband?"
Meeting no response she added, "would
you like Clair to come back or your uncle
Robert?" Mrs. Bland was always cautious
in mentioning the name of Rob Harrison,
it gave her an indescriblable thrill, she
could not account for. Lady Anna replied
"no cousin Jane there is nothing I can ask
for that you or anyone can give me, some-
times I think I would like to go away to
another country, where no one would know
me, and I could be natural and not have to
dress and be gay, and go out and meet
people that criticize my every word and
look. I should like to be with you and
baby and the doctor, and uncle Robert and
Clair and my baby and Maitland always, 
on an island or away from the rest of the
world.”
	“I’m afraid that can never be cousin, we
would have to mingle with some society,
and it might not be as agreeable as that you
have now, people cannot have things their
own way in this world, it seems to me we
ought to make the best of our surroundings
and not murmur against our fate. Don't
you remember before your marriage you
thought if only you and Maitland could be
united, all sorrow would be at an end, and
now that things have turned out so much
more favorable than we anticipated, and
yet you are less satisfied than ever before.”
	‘Well cousin Jane, let us go away from
England, would the doctor consent to it?
Do you think if I could persuade Maitland,
it might be better for him, new scenes, and
things that might interest him and awaken
new thoughts turning his mind in a differ-
ent direction?”
	“To your first question whether the doc-
tor would consent, I cannot possibly tell,
having never entertained such an idea, but
I will speak of it, inadvertently at first and
see what his mind is; I don't think he is at
all fond of new places and I fear he would
dislike a new country still more. ’’
	‘Ah me, I wish I knew what would be
the best course to pursue to ensure peace of
mind if not real happiness. Come cousin
Jane let us go over to the old place, it may
be it will bring back pleasant recollections,
I should like to see some of the rooms
again, since they have been remodeled and
re-furnished. My mother's room where she
died, where I was born, when I lived there
I had none of this sentiment; it has come
with my experience, these last few months,


O,I have grown ages older, how different
everything seems, you who are so much
older appear even younger than I do.”
After their conversation Mrs. Bland and
her cousin drove over to the Castle, and
went through some of the rooms, but Lady
Anna was so much affected that her cousin
hurried her away lest she should give way
to excessive weeping.
	The garden the shady walks and corners,
the old lodge where she had often waited
under the great sighing elms, for her sweet-
heart in the days gone by that were so
sweet to her now seemed more to her than
people, she loved them more and in fact
they seemed more companionable. These
haunts were very dear to both these young
women for many reasons. Recollections
that were unpleasant even, were almost
hallowed by time; though the time had been
short so much had occurred that it
seemed as Lady Anna had remarked, that
ages had transpired since they were all at
home in the old place.
	The only thing considered afterwards in
regard to leaving England, was whether
Lady Walton Sen. would consent to going
with them, or their leaving her and the estate
for her to manage. Lady Anna felt re-
lieved in having had this talk with her
cousin, and her mind seemed made up to
leave her native land and go among new
scenes and society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


KATIE E. MERRILL’S GRAVE.

'Tis a lonely spot yet I love it well—
There’s a sad, sweet charm—there’s a quiet spel
Round the place, as if angels loiter near
Whose whisperings I in fancy hear—
And they speak of a soul unstained and pure,
Of her rest in heaven which is now secure.
They tell of a daughter gentle, kind,
Truthful and earnest of heart and mind;
Of a sister loving, generous, mild,
With the trusting faith of a little child,
Of a wife so virtuous, chaste and true—
With a heart as pure as heaven’s blue.
They are speaking now of the form that came
At the hour of death her love to claim;
How she raised her large round eyes and smiled
With a mother’s joy in her only child,
Then bidding her dear friends all farewell,
How she went with her babe above to dwell.
While I list to the voices low and sweet,
I gaze on the green mound at my feet—
Where palm-trees ever cast their shade,
Where flowers spring and bloom and fade,
Where the ocean’s low, sad voice is heard,
As also the wail of the crying bird—
And I know that the words I hear are said
Of the sleeper there the honored dead.
As if by some strong impulse led—
For the words thereon I have often read—
I walk to the slab of white, once more
And read the dear names o’er and o’er
Of Katie, as well as her baby boy
Who filled life’s parting hour with joy.
Tis a sacred spot, this little mound
Where Katie rests in the cold, cold ground
it is watched and kept with loving care,
And I often in silence ponder there
And the angels are whispering:“All is well
In the courts on high do their spirits dwell.”
	ALOFA.
FAGALII SAMOA, March 10th, 1893.


[Column 1]

	WOMAN SUFFRAGE AT THE
		WORLD'S FAIR.

THE National-American Suffrage head-

[Column 2]
quarters at the Chicago Fair will be located
in the Woman's Building within the Fair
grounds. Here, from May to November,
some one of a numerous committee will be
found in daily attendance, to receive visitors,
answer questions, distribute literature, and
arrange for subscription to native and
foreign suffrage periodicals. But all meet-
ings of a public character will be held in the
new Art Institute not within the Fair
grounds, but on Adams St. and Michigan
Ave. near the center of the city; admission
to all Congresses, Conferences etc., being
free.
	Public representation for the work of
Suffrage Associations will be given in two
of the series of Congresses which are to be
conducted in the Art Institute, the first
being the "World's Congress of Representa-
tive Women," assembled from May 15th, to
22nd, the second being the "Governmental
Congress" which will convene during a
week in August.
	On the main Program of each of these
two Congresses, Woman Suffrage appears
simply as one phase of the world's interests,
briefly set forth by its representatives, but
in one of the Department Halls of the Art
Institute on one day during each Congress,
a special program will be presented giving
the subject to the public with greater detail.
Thus in May on the main program of the
World's Congress of Representative women,
Elizabeth Cady Stanton will speak on the
subject of the "Civil and Social Evolution
of Women," and in another session, Susan
B. Anthony will address the audience on
"Organization Among Women Considered
in Respect to Civil Liberty," while an of-
ficially appointed representative of the
National-American Suffrage Association,
Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, will participate
in the discussion following.
	But in the Suffrage Department Congress,
to be held for one day in a Hall of the Art
Institute simultaneously with the World's
Congress of Representative Women, the en-
tire program will be filled by woman suf-
fragists, the officers of Suffrage Associations
presiding. The following speakers have
been invited to speak on appointed topics:
Lady Henry Somerset on "Woman's Grow-
ing Sense of Responsibility towards her
Country," the Countess of Aberdeen on
"Domestic Legislation," Mrs. Cobden Un-
win on "Woman's Legitimate and Illegiti-
mate Influence on Politics," Lucy Stone on
a theme of her own selection, Clara Bewick
Colby on "Wyoming," Helen H. Gardner
on "Woman as an Annex," Laura M. Johns
on "Woman and the Municipality,"
	Carrie Lane Chapman on the "Evolution
of Woman Suffrage,,' Mademoiselle Marie
Popelin, of Brussells, on the "Struggle of
Professional Women in Belgium," Mrs. F.
Fenwick Miller on the "Woman as a
Factor in the Future of Government."
Sessions, morning and evening, being ar-
ranged for the representation of this pro-
gram.
	Prominent speakers have also been in-
vited for the Governmental Congress in
August, full particulars of which will be
published as the time approaches.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
	Ch. Columbian Exposition Committee
for the N. A. W. S. A.


THE Illinois Senate, on April 6, passed
the bill giving township suffrage to women,
by a vote of 27 to 10.


ENGLISH WOMEN.

	[In the coming World's Congress of Rep-
resentative Women.]
	A NOLABLE array of English Women will
appear as representatives of English thought
and work in the May Congress at Chicago.
The Countess of Aberdeen, whose interest-
ing paper in the Nineteenth Century has
recently aroused wide attention, is a dele-
gate from the London society for the Pro-
motion of Women to Local Governing 
Bodies, and will speak on Women in Munic- 
pal Politics. Mrs. Cobden Unwin, of
the Liberal Federation, represents the
general suffrage work.
	Lady Harberton of the national Dress
Society will give her views on rational dress,
which, it is needless to say, is not the dress
of to-day. Miss Helen Taylor, a step-
daughter of John Stuart Mills, is to speak
on Social Morals, Mrs. Ormiston Chant, the
Hon. Mrs. Waller, Mrs. Alice Cliff
Scatcherd, the eloquent Florence Fenwick
Miller, Helen McKerlie, Mrs. Parkhurst,
Miss Margaret Windeyer, and Lady Henry
Somerset are also included in the program.
Lady Henry Somerset and Miss Florence
Balgarnie are deeply interested in the suc-
cess of this Congress, and send weekly re-
ports of the constantly increasing number
of English associations, who will take part
in the Mid-May Chicago Meeting.
Societies, medical, political, literary, re-
ligious, moral, educational, and purely
philanthropic, have already signified their
intention of sending either delegates or
written reports, sixteen of them to be repre-
sented in person. 
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY Sec.


THE SECRET OF SUCCESS.

	THE most important element of success
is economy; economy of time and economy
of money. By economy of money I do
not mean penuriousness, but, to be careful
of one’s means, not to be extravagant or
wasteful. The greatest recipe for succeed-
ing in the world, then, is to work much
and spend little. If this course be followed,
success must come, unless, some unwise
speculation, or accident occur against which
no human foresight could provide, such as
sickness, death, fire or other visitation of
Providence should arrest the progress on-
ward; but, in the ordinary course of human
affairs success will be sure to follow econ-
omy, which is the condition by which pros-
perity must be earned. Worldly success,
however coveted should only be desirable
so far as it contributes happiness to our-
selves and those around us. The man or
woman whatever be their fame or fortune,
or intelligence who can treat lightly
another’s woe, who are not bound to their
fellow creatures by the magic tie of sympa-
thy, deserves, and must obtain the con-
tempt of human kind. Upon him or her
the choice gifts of nature are thrown away.
True happiness they cannot know, their
lives are as a dream a failure and they will
go down to the grave “Unwept, unhonored
and unsung.” Such a fate is not to be en-
vied, and let us all who are anxious for
success in this life also in the life beyond,
remember that success is nothing without
happiness.
	E. H. LYON.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelta), - Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months;
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLlSHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
	
SALT LAKE CITY, - - APRIL 1ST, 1893.


[Column 1]
THE SILK INDUSTRY

	THE coming World’s Fair has awakened
serious thought among people in regard to
home manufactures and industry; local and
general. In Utah the spirit of these in-
fluences is at work, and we trust it may
prove beneficial to the people generally,
and the entire Territory.
	The silk industry which has been lan-
guishing for years past, for lack of  means
and enthusiasm on the subject, is coming
forward now, and it does seem as if a
creditable enterprise of this kind and one
that would be lucrative too ought to grow
out of it.
	For many years the women of our
Church, and especially of the Relief Society
lead out in this direction, and hundreds and
thousands of milberry trees were planted, and
cocoons raised and some considerable silk
reeled and many small articles made, be-
sides dress goods, shawls etc.  In fact the
history of sericulture from the first step in
this direction would be an interesting sub-
ject just now.
	In an editorial in the Deseret News pub-
lished a few days ago some facts were given
that we trust the people and especially the
women of the Territory will take note
of; There was also an editorial article in
the EXPONENT of December 15, ult, giving
some data, and interesting facts, which those
interested in the production of silk should
certainly read for their own benefit; as
sericulture is an occupation particularly
adapted to women and children. Days
gone by the difficulty was, no market for
cocoons and no machinery suitable for work-
ing the native silk. The price paid by the
Eastern markets for cocoons was not enough
to pay the people for their work and the
actual expense; and many who had been
quite energetic in their efforts lost heart and
turned their efforts in other directions.
	Every one who was acquainted with
President Brigham Young knows how very
anxious he was to have the silk industry
prosper. He sent to France in 1856 for the
best quality of Mulberry seed, and planted
an area of land with the mulberry which
was known until recently as the Mulberry
Farm.
	Now that Congress has made a liberal
appropriation of money to promote the silk
enterprise and make an exhibit, and placed
it at the disposal or under the direction of
Mrs. Palmer President of the Board of
Lady Managers of the Columbian Exposi-
tion, Mrs. Salisbury one of the Vice
Presidents associated with Mrs. Palmer and

[Column 2]
also the commissioner for Utah appreciat-
ing the efforts made here in the silk indus-
try, interceded for an apportionment for
Utah out of the fund Congress had pro-
vided, and succeeded in getting something
liberal to assist in making a handsome
exhibit. As soon as she felt comparatively
sure of what could be done, she appointed a
committee to attend to the collecting of ex-
hibits. This committee was Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, President, Mrs. E. B. Wells Vice
President, Mrs. C. E. Allen, and Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young and Mrs. Margaret A. Caine,
Secretary. All the cocoons, raw or spun
silk, and all manufactured articles that can
be obtained are wanted to make this dis-
play in the Woman’s Building. It is ex-
pected that the whole process of the work
from the silk worms upward to the spinning
and weaving will be shown by Utah
women; it is also desirable to get the prim-
tive wheels, reels, and hand looms and so on
that have been used in this sort of work
and have them exhibited. All articles that
can be purchased or borrowed should be
sent to the Headquarters of the committee
in the Constitution Building, Rooms 227
and 228, in the care of the Secretary, Mrs.
Caine. The cocoons that are for sale must
be examined by an expert, and a fair cash
price will be paid for them. Other articles of
course willbe paid for at a reasonable price.
The money appropriated will be handled
judiciously, but it is the desire of the com-
mittee to arouse an interest in this valu-
able home production and no pains will be
spared to accomplish this object.
	The sisters in various parts of the Terri-
tory who have been so discouraged will now
have an opportunity to dispose of their
cocoons and be stimulated to new efforts in
this laudable undertaking.
	It is indeed the woman’s age for in all
branches of work where women can show
skill or ingenuity, or knowledge of any
employment, it is called into active exer-
cises because of the advantages afforded by
the World’s Fair.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

    OUR readers and patrons will see that we
have made a change in the location of  the
office by the Editors and Publishers  stand-
ing  notice  in  our columns. The  house
where  we  were previously  located  was a
more desirable  locality in every respect ex-
cept its outside appearance, but one change
involves  another—arid that  that  property   is
too valuable for the size of the house, had
it even   been a good   and  substantial  one.
The Constitution  Building is  well   known
to the people  and we  feel  that  the  sisters
and ladies  generally   will  not  have far  to
climb, and Rooms (227 and 228) being  in
the second story  and an elevator running
all day and until 12 o’clock at night.    The
distance  from the   Printing  office  is  the
greatest  hardship,  involving  as it does so
much  going  back  and  forth, however we
must make the best of it, and if the only pros-
perity would come through the medium of
more  numerous  subscribers,  it   would not
be so difficult to make everything easier and
there  would  be a  very  material difference
in many ways for the better. 
     THERE are  quite a number of ladies go-
ing from Utah to attend the Woman’s Con-
gress of Representative women in Chicago,
which opens May 15th and lasts one whole
week, and   the  National   Woman’s  Relief

[Column 2]
Society and Young Ladies National Mutual
Improvement  Association will each  hold a
meeting in Department  Hall  No.  VII.
(7) in the Art Institute on the 19th of May,
when the entire  program  will be filled by
members of these respective organizations,
N. W. R. S. morning session and Y. L. N.
M. I. A. evening. The full  program of
exercises will  be given in the next issue af
the paper.
	THE    Headquarters  of   the   National
Woman’s  Relief   Society will  hereafter be
in    this  office,    President,   Zina   D.   H.
Young   will be  here at some  hours in the
day  during  the  week,  up   to the   time of
leaving for  Chicago   which  will  probably
be the 10th of  May.
	THE UTAH ROOM:—Fine  needle  work is
a most beautiful art, and how  forcibly  this
thought is brought to mind while gazing at
the many articles the  women of  Utah have
been preparing for their room  in  the Utah
building at Chicago.    It would take a great
many pages to describe   them  all   for there
are so many lunch cloths, doilies, and scarfs
in  exquisite  drawn   work,   there   are so
many pieces of rich and  rare embroidery,
there are such wonderful   combinations of
historic silks into beautiful spreads, that the
women of  Utah are  surprising  themselves
by their perfection in the industrial arts.
    One can scarcely imagine  anything more
exquisite than the pale cream  silk  curtains
embroidered in sego lilies, under  which all
who  visit the Woman’s Building will  pass,
and imagine  the  surprise,   when told  that
they are made of  Utah silk.   Then in  the
Utah  building   will   hang   most  elegant
portiers  made  of Utah  broad-cloth,  lined
with  Utah  silk  and  most  artistically and
elaborately embroidered;  the Utah flower—
the sego  lily, again  the design.    Passing
under the curtains—a gift from the ladies
of  Salt  Lake  Co.—one may  rest on the
beautiful chairs and sofa that the Davis Co.
ladies gave this  pretty room.   This furni-
ture is most unique,  upholstered in Utah
silk of sage green color and beautifully em-
broidered, the frame is of Utah  wood with
a white and gold finish and  here again the
sego lily plays  the prominent  part in  the
decoration.   Reclining in these luxurious
chairs one may note the many other hand-
some furnishings of the room on the floors
lie fine rugs,  made  from  the  skins of “the
mountain lion, a gift from the  Summit Co.
ladies.   From the mantle may be heard the
regular ticking of the clock, elegantly en-
cased in Utah onyx and among the beautiful
drapings and furnishings we must  not  fail
to   note  the  handsome  silk flag, and  the
wonderful inlaid  table  all gifts from Utah
Co.  It seems  almost  a  pity  to  begin  to
mention or describe individual pieces among
so many rare and costly things, for  beauti-
ful pictures adorn  the  walls  and  rest  on
easels, and fine carved  work,  dainty drap-
ing, luxurious cushions, delicate  decorated
china and hundreds of artistic,  unique and
handsome articles  tend to  make  the  room
elegant  and  interesting,  but  let  us  not
hastily pass the books and papers Utah wo-
men  have  contributed  towards  towards  the  em-
bellishment of this  room for  here we may
find their written thoughts  the minds re-
flection.   Among  these  lies the  beautiful
volume,Songs and Flowers of the Wasatch,
choice selections  from  the women poets of
Utah,  appropriately  approprately  illustrated  in  water
colors.   Certainly  Utah  Women will have
just cause for pride as they view the display


of their talent and handwork in this
delightful room.
	The time approaches rapidly and before
many days hundreds of Utah people will be
wending their way to Chicago, among them
many women who have been, toiling night
and day that Utah’s display might be worthy
of her people. May their journey be all
that they desire pleasant, interesting, in-
structive, and enjoyable in the extreme.
	CAMELIA.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PERSONAL REMINISCENCES.

	My husband cut a large heap of tender
twigs, placed them evenly, then placed a
Buffalo robe over them which, with plenty
of covering made a comfortable bed. The
fresh air, laden with the odor of the pines,
the gentle swaying of the trees was all
novel and delightful to me and while the
rest of the camp slumbered restfully, my
mind wandered away to my home, far
across the seas, and to the loved ones there,
but joy and thankfulness mingled lovingly
with the sadness. Not then, or ever since,
have I regretted the ties I had found which
were so different from the majority of man-
kind. One of the first things my husband
did, was to overhaul our supplies, take out
the seed grain, then carefully estimate the
probable length of time before harvest,
How many were depending upon him for
sustenance, ration them accordingly. He
concluded that if we had our wheat ground
into unbolted flour, we could have from
half to three quarters of a pound a day to
each person. This might seem ample, but
when it is remembered that we had no
vegetables, milk or butter, and hungry
winter coming on, it was but short allow-
ance, to eke out our bread, a steer, the best
one we had was killed; and there was not
fat enough in the whole creature to fry the
liver. This was put down in salt, (we had
plenty of that) so you see what our fare
was, plenty of lean corned beef and a little
Graham bread, what little groceries we had
left at the end of our journey were re-
served for sickness.
	We held meetings, visited each other and
were comparatively happy and contented,
and the winter passed away. As early as
possible in the spring the brethren made
preparations to put in garden, and plant
corn, most of the wheat had been sown in
the fall. About the 18th of March the
equinoctial storm set in, and it began to
rain, and it kept on raining for over a week.
We were told that there was no rain to
speak of in this country, so, in building
our roofs, they were made nearly flat.
They were constructed of—first poles put
as closely together as possible, then dried
grass and weeds, then a good layer of
earth, which made a warm roof, but alas!
not impervious to rain. So we had rain
out of doors and a mud-fall in the house,
for the continued fall of rain so thoroughly
soaked the earth over head that the down-
pour was mud, good-honest-mud. You can
imagine the condition our beds and bed-
ding were in, as long as there was a dry
spot, we would move it there, but after a
while there was no dry spot. One of the
family had a babe nine days old, she stayed
in bed till it was soaked through, then she
was placed in a chair before the fire with an
umbrella over her head. Sometimes the
rain would cease, and the sun show his
face, and we would put out the bedding to
dry but alas; it would cloud up again and

[Column 2]
the weather would resume its normal con-
dition All were not quite as bad off as we
were, for some had better roofs, and one
man had built a gabled roof, and I can
assure you he had plenty of company while
the storm lasted.
	But there came a change the sun’s genial
rays smiled on us once more, and soon
everything was made comfortable, and no
one of us sustained colds or injury in any
way.
	By this time our provisions began to get
very short. We were working very hard
to help get in the corn of which my hus-
band put in a large area. He had built a
dugout in the side of the bank close to the
land he was planting and tending, I some-
times drove the oxen while he held the
plow (I had learned how the year before) I
dropped corn, while he covered it, cooked
our thistle greens, and often walked a mile
over plowed ground to get a pail of butter-
milk from some more fortunate, but kind
neighbor to wash down the greens.
	Thus we toiled and starved through our
labors. I well remember one afternoon
several of the family with my husband
going to look at our wheat. It was a
sickening sight, every stalk was bowed
down by large crickets. We looked on it
in silence a little while, then my husband
said:— “Here is our wheat covered with
devouring crickets, we are a thousand miles
from supplies, unless God interposes,
starvation stares us in the face.” Yet even
in this great strait, not even a doubt
entered our minds, for we firmly believed
in, and trusted that God, who had kept and
preserved us hitherto. And every one has
heard how the gulls came, gorged them-
selves with the crickets, flew to the lake,
disgorged themselves, came again, till the
plague was stayed, and we harvested more
wheat to the acre than seemed possible
under the circumstances, for we had not
then learned to irrigate.
	My first babe was born on the 7th day of
July 1848. Through my illness (which
was protracted) I had no bread, for the
last few days I had managed to make a pan-
cake, but I had got to the last ounce of
flour. The midwife kindly brought me a
piece of bread, and, some of my neighbors,
whose kindness I shall never forget,
brought me a little of their little. On the
Monday, the 10th, my husband went early
in the morning sickle in hand, cut a little
wheat here and there where it had ripened,
threshed it with flail, and wagon cover,
took it on his shoulder to Brother Neff’s
mill, had it ground, brought it home, had
a big loaf baked in a bake kettle, and the
whole family sat down to dinner in the
room where I was, so that I might enjoy it
with them. Just think, what a feast! The
first time in nine months we had all the
bread we could eat. My husband remarked
while eating dinner, “This is the first time
since I came into the church that I have
reaped what I have sowed, I have either
gone on missions, and left my labors for
others to reap the benefits, or I have been
driven by mobs from my possessions.”
	Though I had not had scarcely a full en-
joyable meal through the nine months
previous to the birth of my babe, yet she
was a plump healthy child, with apparently
no particular craving and has always been
a rather small eater. On the 10th, of Aug.
we had what we called our "Harvest feast,’’
the brethren built a bowery and stand, and
raised a liberty pole, on which was corn
eight feet high, large sheaves of wheat,

[Column 3]
oats, barley, rye and other productions for
exhibition; we feasted on the good things
we had raised, we had bread, butter, cheese,
pastry, melons, green corn, beef and so on.
We had music, songs of praise, prayer and
thanksgiving, congratulations, speeches,
recitations and dancing; but the most grand
and impressive of all to me was, the great
and united shout of Hosanna, “Hosanna!
Hosanna! to God and the Lamb.”
	It surely was a shout of heart-felt praise
and thanks to God. Scarcely a year had
elapsed since we had arrived here in an al-
most starving condition, and now we had
plenty to eat, though we, as a family had
not raised enough wheat, we had plenty of
corn-meal. The corn we planted was a
late variety called “Missouri Shoe-peg,”
which yielded well, but did not fully ripen.
The way we used to manage when we
wanted a grist, was to spread a lot of ears
on the loose boards over head; when dried
by the heat of the fire (we had big fires on
the hearth,) the men folks would bring
down the pile, get a washtub, put a board
across for a seat, then put a sharpened spade
face downwards across the board and by
sitting down on it hold it in place, then
draw the ears along the sharp edge of the
spade. If the corn was dry, a bushel was
soon shelled, taken to mill and ground,
then sifted at home. Happy were they who
owned a seive, for several families had to
use one, and those who had none of their
own, had to borrow of their neighbor.
Our cattle had become very fat and we had
a dry cow that, when killed, yielded nearly
a hundred ponds of fat, besides the great
amount we tried out, every piece we cooked
yielded so much dripping that we had
plenty for shortening and to make our rath-
er musty corn bread very enjoyable.
	One little incident I must not forget to
mention. My shoes were worn out, and
when I wanted to join in the festivites, the
question arose as to what I should wear on
my feet; there were no stores to go to, I
could not have bought a pair of shoes for
love or money. What little people had, they
had brought with them a thousand miles,
and for their own use most decidedly.
	At last I heard of a lady who had bought
a buckskin of the Indians, of which to
make her son a pair of pants. I went to
her and asked her to sell me the pieces to
make a pair of moccassins, she said “I
have no use for money, but if you will let
me have a cravat I have seen you wear, you
can have them.” She had noticed a neck-
tie I had worn which she coveted, so I was
glad to make the exchange. I made me a
neat pair of mocassins of which I felt
very proud. I went in them to the
festivities danced my first dance in them and
felt as if I was treading on air.
	There was a song composed for the oc-
casion by Elder P. P. Pratt which touched
upon the death of our Prophet and Patriarch,
the driving from Nauvoo, the wanderings
and trials of the saints and our safe arrival
in this our mountain home. I remember a
line here and there and the last verse entire,
“Long, long have we wandered as exiles forlorn,
Without any harvest, without any home;
But Lo! in the mountains new sheep-folds appear
And a harvest of plenty to crown the glad-year.
CHORUS.
So we’ll join in the dance and we’ll join in the 
	song,
To thee, Oh! Jehovah, new praises belong;
All honor, all glory we render to thee,
For here in the mountains thy people are free.
	LAST VERSE.
Tho’ storms of commotion distress every realm,
And dire revolutions the nations o’er whelm;


Tho' Babylon trembles, and thrones cease to be,
Yet here in the mountains thy people are free.
	CHORUS.
Let us join in the dance, let us join in the song,
To thee, Oh! Jehovah, new praises belong;
All honor, all glory, we render to thee,
For here in the mountains thy people are free.
	In what I have written, I have used the
expression, "my husband" when some-
time I should have said "our husband"
for I was one of several wives, some of
them as noble women as ever lived. The 
one I traveled and drove team with was one
of my husband's wives. A better, or more
noble woman I never knew. In our travel-
ing together we sometimes took turns, she
driving one day and I the next, she had a
delicate babe, and when she drove I took
care of it, and vice versa, and through all
the vicissitudes of our life together we have
loved and respected each other greatly, and
she has always been very near and dear to
me, and her children are next to my own.
	This principle of marriage if understood
and lived rightly, does not, as many sup-
pose, develop the baser feelings common to
fallen humanity; but rather the higher and
nobler attributes. It teaches unselfishness,
that the world and all it contains was not
made for you alone; but that others have
feelings, rights and privileges as well as
you have and are just as worthy of con-
sideration. If lived prayerfully and patient-
ly it tends to purify and ennoble the heart,
expand the mind, and one to understand
and comprehend a higher life which can be
learned in no other way.
	GATHA.
	March 7th, 1893.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE monthly meeting of the U. W. P.
Club convened at the EXPONENT parlor
March 22nd 1893. Prest. E. B. Wells in
the chair. Prayer was offered by Lydia D.
Alder. Roll call responded to with senti-
ments from the writings of Longfellow.
Minutes of previous meeting read and
approved. The programme was carried
out as follows. A song by Miss Pearl
Russell. Nevada V. Davis recited in a
pleasing manner, selections from favorite
American authors, Ruth M. Fox recited
an original poem entitled “My Fortieth
Year.” Interesting article on “Ignorance
and Superstition” by Phebe C. Young,
Miss Maude Pratt favored the company
with two songs the music was very much
enjoyed. The meeting was then thrown
open for members to discuss business and
express their ideas. N. V. Davis thought
the good things we had, should not be
kept to ourselves, but should be imparted
to others, our knowledge was given to
us to hold in trust. When we read
good books and get new ideas,
others should be benefitted by them.
	Mary A. Freeze related some interesting
incidents in the experience of her son-in-
law who had just returned from Samoa;
described tropical fruits and palms, Prest.
Wells said the idea of imparting what we
knew to others was a correct principle, and
one in which she firmly believed, thought
the sixth was the spiritual sense. The
subject was discussed by members, Lucy
Clark recited some verses in connection with
the subject. N. V. Davis reported what the
committee had done in reference to the
badge presented two designs to select from,
one with a Bee, and one with a Greek
Lamp, it was decided to have a gold pin


with a Greek Lamp, with U. W. P. C. in
raised letters.
	The program for April 30th was read.
Different styles of verses, N. V. Davis.
Original article or poem, Lillie T. Freeze.
Article on Woman, Ella W. Hyde. Song
and music, Gladys Woodmansee. Sketches
of Samoan Women, Mary A. Freeze.
Article on the sixth sense, L. G. Richards.
Music Mamie Freeze. Lydia D. Alder was
voted a member of the club. Benediction
was pronounced by N. V. Davis. Refresh-
ments were then served, and the usual
pleasant chat followed.
	ELLA W. HYDE, Sec. Pro Tem.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co.  W. S. A. convened in the
thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Jan. 17,
1893.  Vice Prest.  A. W. Eardley in the
chair.  Opened by singing—“God shall
lead us on."  Prayer by M. A. Freeze,
continued by singing—“Our Country now
from thee."  Mrs. Ella W. Hyde was nomi-
nated and unanimously sustained to act as
Treasurer.  The roll was called, and the
minutes of the previous meeting were read
amended and accepted.  Mrs. C. C. R.
Wells spoke upon the subject, "Is woman
inferior to man intellectually," and handled
it in a very creditable manner reading
several extracts from different papers.
Maggie Bassett, then sang a song, entitled
"Ah! I have sighed to rest me."  Mrs. M.
Holt made a short address upon, "Woman's
Work," showed how many women could rise
above all difficulties and with their divine in-
fluence encourage all those with whom they
associate.  A reading entitled "What some
women have done in business" by Vice
Prest. E. McFarlane.  Mrs. M. A. Irvine
said my heart is in this work and I would
rather work any time than speak.  Mrs.
M. P. Silver said I feel determined to gain
all the new memberships possible, related
an interesting circumstance of how a wo-
man won the office of Justice of the Peace.
I feel that it is women that need to be
converted.  Vice Prest. E. M. Price said we
have all got to study hard before we ever
excel in many directions, in order to prove
ourselves eqnal to our fellow men.
	Mrs. Ella W. Hyde said I believe in wo-
man's suffrage and desire to do all I can to
assist the cause.  Meeting stood adjourned
until the third Tuesday in Feb.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
13th Ward Assembly hall Feb. 21st 1893.
Prest.  Nellie C. Taylor in the chair.
Opened by singing "Hark the sound of
myriad voices," Prayer by Vice Prest. E.
M. Price. Singing, "Our country now
from thee-"  The roll was called, and
minutes of the previous meeting read and
approved.  Phebe C. Young made some
valuable suggestions  Prest. Taylor en-
dorsed her remarks, and also made a few
others on the same subject.] he C.
Young spoke verbally upon the subject,
"How Presidents were elected by the
Electoral College."  which was very inter-
esting and instructive.  May Talmage gave
a recitation entitled, "The Young Grey
Head."  Dr. E. S. Barney said, we are all
trying to labor for the general good, e
some of the sentiments of Harriet Beecher


Stowe, showing that woman's sphere was
to be enlarged, and she felt to make the
same assertion herself, was pleased to see
that unity was increasing in Salt Lake City,
and that the wheel of progress was rolling
on.  Vice Prest. E. M. Price read an article
she had written on the Election of Presi-
dents, continuing the subject spoken upon
by Phebe C. Young, said as suffragists we
should always be learning something politi-
cal.  We should be progressive and should
be able to understand these subjects.
Louisa K. Spencer had enjoyed very much
the things she had heard, thought we could
not learn too much pertaining to the suf-
frage question. Mary A. Bassett, Millie
Bassett and Ann E. Neal, each made a few
remarks upon suffrage.
	The President suggested the ladies read
these subjects and become posted, said
woman was an interesting study, thought
we ought to keep up with the times, prayed
God to bless us. Meeting stood adjourned
till the third Tuesday in March.
	ELLA W. HYDE, Sec. Pro, Tem.


QUEEN ELIZABETH.

	AT this time Wyatts rebellion broke out
and there were several uprisings in dif-
ferent parts of the kingdom this was the
time they tried to place Lady Jane Grey on
the throne, but Wyatt was entrapped and
taken prisoner; the made a confession in
which he implicated Elizabeth. Mary was
determined now to secure her sister, sick or
well, so she sent three commissioners with a
troop of horses and her own litter to carry
her on, in case she was unable to travel any
other way.  They arrived at Ashbridge at
ten o'clock at night. Elizabeth was very
much frightened and begged not to be
moved, but physicians testified that she
could go without danger of her life, so the
next morning she was placed upon the
litter and started for London, twenty-nine
miles away; she was now completely in
Mary's power, they traveled in great state
befitting a princess, and were four days on
the way; as they neared their destination a
great many people came out to meet her as
a token of respect which many did not at
all enjoy.
	They took Elizabeth to one of the palaces
at White Hall where she was examined, but
nothing proved against her, where upon she
was released, but there were other persons
implicated in Wyatts plot who made
charges against her, and Mary had her re-
arrested and sent to a famous palace called
Hampton Court where she was strictly
guarded.  From there she was to be taken
to the Tower of London, she sent a letter
to Mary protesting her innocence and beg-
ging to be released, the letter did no good,
she was taken down the river and compell-
ed to enter the Tower through the Traitors,
gate; Elizabeth declared she was no traitor
and would not go in that way, but she was
obliged to yield, she was kept a close prison-
er for a month, after that she was allowed
to walk in the royal apartments every day
and after awhile in the garden; when she
had been imprisoned three months she was
very much alarmed at the sound of martial
music she was afraid of being beheaded and
inquired very anxiously if the block was
still there on which Lady Jane was execut-
ed.  She was told she was to be take to a
place called Woodstock, a royal palace
forty or fifty miles to the west of London
she was very much distressed at this, not


[Column 1]
knowing what was to be done with her,
the truth was Mary dare not keep her in
the tower any longer, as a large part of the
kingdom were Protestants and she thought
if she was too harsh she might exasperate
them and it might be the cause of a new 
outbreak. 
	Elizabeth was taken to the Queen's Court
first and was met with a proposition of
marriage which Mary had been arranging,
she thought to marry her to the duke of
Savoy whose dominions were on the con-
fines of France and Switzerland and thus
be rid of her; but Elizabeth did not propose
to be dealt with in any such manner; the
height of her ambition was to be queen of
England and she preferred to be a captive
in her own land, rather than the consort of a
sovereign Duke beyond the Rhine. She
was taken to Woodstock and remained there
more than a year; at Xmas she was allowed
to go to Court and share the festivities and
then return to her seclusion. King Philip
interested himself on her behalf and Mary's
ministers tried to induce her to make some
confession of guilt and petition for pardon,
but this she would not do, she declared she
was perfectly innnocent and therefore she
would never say she was guilty, she would
rather remain in prison for the truth, than
to be at liberty and have it believed she had
been guilty of disloyalty and treason. At
last she was called to Mary's side and some
kind of a reconciliation was effected, Mary
gave her a ring as a token of friendship
and she returned to her own estate at Hat-
field in Herefordshire where she lived in
seclusion, devoting her time to the study of
Greek and Latin under the instruction of
Roger Archemo. From this place Eliza-
beth was called to the throne,her coronation
was a most splendid affair she was every-
where hailed with joy and gladness she had
a large sum of money given her by the
officers of the city; during the ceremonies
she placed a wedding ring on her finger
saying she would never have any other 
husband than the realm of England. She
made a very good impression on that day
by her condescension to the poor.  The first
eleven years of her reign was distinguished 
for peace and happiness during this interval 
she displayed the very best qualities of a
sovereign, firmness, prudence vigilance,
activity, pity and foresight; she was just 
as firm a Protestant as Mary had been a 
Catholic, consequently she did all in her
power to favor her own faith, at this time
there were three theological and political 
parties the Reformed Church, the Puritans
and the Catholics, but all combined against
a set called Ana Baptists two members were
burned and others severely punished, this
was the first blood spilled by Elizabeth on 
account of religion. Philip of Spain,
thinking he would like to get posession of
England and restore the Catholic faith, sent
a fleet called the Invincible Armada over
from Spain, but he was completely routed;
the English displayed great skill in defeat-
ing him,the queen herself appeared in camp
riding a white horse, armed like a warrior:
she said to her soldiers "I am only a poor,
weak woman, but I have the heart of a
king, and I am ready to lie my body down
in the dust for my kingdom, my God and
my people." However she did not have a 
chance to prove these brave words, by her
skillful commander Sir Frances Drake set-
ting fire to the fleet which completely over-
powered them. Elizabeth is described as
vain, irritable and coarse, with red hair and
a very long nose, given to swearing and

[Column 2]
boxing people's ears, was extremely fond of 
flattery, on one ocassion she asked an am-
bassador from the Court of Mary, Queen of 
Scotts, who was a very beautiful woman, 
which of them was the best looking, Mary
or herself; he had a very hard time to get
around it, he said he thought she had the
fairest skin, she asked him which was the
taller, he answered his queen was, then
she said she is too tall as I am just right. 
She had many lovers and seemed to know 
how to flirt; history says she was going to
be married pretty often for an old maid; she
seemed to take delight in marring other
peoples' happiness and instead of making
matches was continually breaking them up;
she could not prohibit marriage but she did
not think heads of colleges and cathedrals,
should let their wives enter those places;
she was once very magnificently entertained,
by the wife of an Archbishop, she thanked
her by saying she could not call her his
wife, she did not like to call her his mistress,
so she did not know what to call her, at
any rate she was much obliged to her.
She had many favorites, among them one
young man named Essex whom she treated
very much as a son but they were continu-
ally quarreling and making up, finally she
had him beheaded but she never seemed to 
get entirely over it. She also beheaded
Mary Queen of Scotts, but in justice it
must be said, this Sovereign was constantly
pressing her claims to the crown and the 
Catholic Church favored it. On one ocas-
sion two poor fellows interfered in one of
her love affairs by publishing a pamphlet and 
selling it, for this their right hands were
cut off, one of them immediately raised his
hat with his left hand saying, “God save
the Queen.’, She reigned about forty-five
years during that time the whole western 
part of Europe was convulsed with conflicts
between the Protestants and Catholic parties,
her own kingdom also was continually
trembling with the heavy shocks it was
constantly receiving, but Elizabeth with the 
help of her wise and efficient administration
whom she had displayed great judgment in
selecting guided it safely through, she was
many times beset with schemes and plots to
dethrone her all of which had to be met
and overcome. Her reign ranks amongst
the greatest and most fortunate of English
sovereigns she found England inferior to oth-
er nations of Europe and left it amongst the
most powerful; her age was noted for its
poetry, literature and improved civilization
and while she left a blot upou her history
by the blood she shed, her reign was purity
itself, compared with that of her father and
her sister. Elizabeth is said to have been very
great and also very small, she is accused of
double dealing, for instance she would issue 
orders and then make a loud ado and pun-
ish those who carried them out. I think in 
judging her we should consider her birth 
and surroundings; if she was crafty as they
say she was, she probably lived in a crafty
age she died on the twenty-fourth of March 
in the sixty-seventh year of her age and
the forty-fifth of her reign although I find
that historians differ in dates, as well as re-
gards character.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS. 

	NINETEEN counties in Nebraska have 
women serving as County Superintendents 
of schools. 
	THE Arkansas Senate, on April 5, passed 

[Column 2]
a bill giving women school suffrage and 
making them eligible to membership on 
school boards. 
	APRIL, 1893, is a bright month for the 
friends of equal rights for women. Kansas, 
Illinois, Arkansas, Colorado, Ontario and
Nova Scotia!
	MRS. SUSAN S. FESSENDEN addressed 
the committee on woman suffrage of the 
Connecticut Legislature on April 12, in 
behalf of the pending woman suffrag
bills.
	BOTH houses of the Colorado Legislatu 
have voted in favor of a constitution 
amendment extending suffrage to women. 
Gov. Waite signed the bill April 7. 
	THE lower House of Nova Scotia has 
passed a bill giving full parliamentary suf-
frage to women. A bill of the same nature 
has passed the upper House in Ontario. 
The Arkansas Senate has passed a bill giv-
ing women school suffrage. 
	MRS. M. E. LEASE has been appointed 
by the Governor of Kansas, president of 
the State Board of Charities and the New 
Forum is our authority for stating that 
she has been ordained a minister in the Christian
Church.
	THERE was a large attendance at the
meeting of the Women's National Press 
Association, the evening of April 21. 
After some announcements made by the 
president relative to Woman's work at the 
World's Fair, Mrs. Gillen, of England, 
gave a short talk on the subject, "Every 
Man a Genius," which was interesting and 
suggestive. Mrs. Laura de Force Gordon's 
all around" talk was replete with thought, 
and clearly manifested the broad culture of 
the woman who spoke. 
	CONSTANCE FENIMORE WOOLSON, the
poet-authoress, was born in Claremont, N. 
H., lived in Florida during the years 
when she was best known to Americans, and has 
for some time lived in England, but grew 
up, developed and first became famous in 
Cleveland. Her mother was a niece of 
Fenimore Cooper, and the daughter received
his name along with a large share of his 
talent. Miss Woolson is forty-four years
old, and quite alone in the world since the 
death, in 1879, of her mother, to whom she 
was devoted. 
	TO attend the World's Fair one would find 
a pleasant stopping place on the west side 
away from the noise and confusion of the 
fair, yet with a railway station at hand so 
it would cost but little time and strength to 
reach the grounds. A lady known to the 
editor of the Tribune has taken a house to 
enable herself and sister to spend the season 
in Chicago and will have a few rooms to 
spare which she will rent at reasonable
rates—$30 per month, with opportunity to 
take meals if desired, in the house. The 
lady is especially anxious to have as her 
guests the progressive women of the day 
and this place will be especially desirable
for those who are planning to attend the 
Congresses. Address, W. W. care of 
Woman's Tribune, Washington, D. C.
	SENATOR INZER, of St. Clair, has offered 
in the Alabama Senate a joint resolution to 
submit to the voters a constitutional 
amendment authorizing the General as-
sembly to extend suffrage to women in 
municipal elections involving the sale of
liquor.
	WHOEVER else was disappointed in the


fall elections, there is one candidate who
is not. This is Miss Ella L. Knowles, the
pretty and plucky girl attorney general of
Montana. The People’s party nominated
her, and she did the rest. Miss Knowles
is a college graduate—a master of arts from
her alma mater, Bates college, Lewiston,
Me. She is a New Hampshire girl, and
studied law in that state first and afterward
in Helena, Mon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	
	DIED in the Deseret Hospital, Salt Lake City,
December 22nd, 1892 of Cancer; Sister Betsy S.
Long wife of the late J. V. Long. Her age was
fifty-eight years and three months, born on the
25th, of September 1834 in Bishop’s-Stratford,
Hertfordshire, England, was baptized in the year
1852, emigrated to Utah April 23rd, 1861; in com-
pany with two of her. sisters and one brother on
board the Clipper ship Underwriters, under the
Presidency of Milo Andrus, Homer Duncan and
C. W. Penrose which arrived in New York, May
22nd; crossed the plains in Captain Milo Andrus
and John Murdock’s Company, arriving the same
year in Great Salt Lake City, Sep. 12th. She was
a faithful Latter-day Saint with noble traits of
character, generous and sympathetic in her
nature and was beloved by all who knew her; she
was always ready and willing to do good to others
no sacrifice seemed too great but was a pleasure
to her when she could help the needy, always put-
ting her trust in God under all circumstances; we
miss her kind and loving face but hope to meet
again “Blessed are they that die in the Lord for
their reward is sure. She was a member of the
Relief Society and for many years held the office
of Teacher in the 13th Ward.
	She also leaves one son, J. V. Long his wife
and two grand-children to whom the affliction is
especially hard. The funeral services were held
in the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms, Dec. 25th.
	May we all take consolation in the hope of a
glorious resurrection and in the knowledge that
our loss is her gain.
	The remains were followed to the Salt Lake
cemetery by a concourse of relatives and friends
to pay their last respects to the dear, departed
one.
							F. S. DELL.

“Yes.we loved her well and we miss her sore
	Voice tender and lips that blessed;
Our hearts cry out for her evermore,
	The hands that strengthen, the arms that
		pressed.
Weary enough was the up hill way,
	Darkling enough was the lingering night,
But this hour of sorrow has not a ray,
	It has carried our loved one out of sight.

She has gained what we seek for yet,
	Is at rest while we labor still;
Sorrow and sighing she’ll forget,
	While we march on up the weary hill.
We are parted, but not for long,
	The shadows fall, it is growing late;
Soon shall we falter the even-song,
	Soon shall we enter the open gate.”


A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

	DIED on the 26th, of January 1893, at Kanab,
Kane Co. Utah, our much esteemed, Stake
President, Harriet Dye Bunting wife of James L.
Bunting, born Jan. 31st, 1843, at Wymondham
Norfolk, England emigrated to Salt Lake with
her parents in 1853; married at the same place in
1859, moved south to Kanab in 1870, was the
mother of twelve children, nine of whom are liv-
ing, two daughters reside in Arizona and one son
now laboring in the missionary field in West
Virginia; the rest of the family with many friends
surrounded her peaceful death bed. She has
ever been a faithful, wife and mother and an earn-
est worker in the cause of truth, she was selected
as treasurer in the first organization of this Relief
Society, which was effected Nov. 12, 1873; four
years after, Dec. 15th, 1877, was chosen President of
the Kanab Relief Society, which position she
efficiently held until June 14th, 1885 when she
was sustained as President of the Relief Society
of Kanab Stake, which office she still held at the
time of her death—has also been an earnest
Teacher in the Sabbath School, as well as a faith-
ful leader in the choir, was always prompt and
reliable and we can truthfnlly say she has magni-


fied every position where unto she has been
called. Therefore be it,
	Resolved:—That after a life of usefulness our
beloved sister has paid the debt of nature and
gone to rest, and that she was fully prepared by
her exemplary life, and while we do not regret
the change on her part, still we will miss her
kindly presence and influence at our meetings.
	Resolved:—that while we feel sad at parting
with our sister, we will remember her earnest 
exhortations and practical faith in her religion
which has so often imparted encouragment, hope
and comfort to our hearts. Her words of wise
counsel still fill our minds with admiration for
this our noble sister.
	Resolved:—that while words are inadequate to
express her many virtues we will strive to emu-
late her faith and follow her good examples; and
that while we extend our sympathies to the be-
reaved family, yet we congratulate the sons and
daughters of the deceased on the pattern of her
patient and noble life.
Resolved:—that we present a copy of these
resolutions to the bereaved family, that also one
be sent to the EXPONENT, and they be spread
upon the records of this society.
'Tis hard to break the tender cord when love has
	bound our heart,
'Tis hard,so hard to say the  words, must we for-
	ever part?
Dearest loved one we have laid thee in the peace-
	ful grave's embrace,
But thy memory will be cherished 'till we see thy
heavenly face.
ELIZABETH PUGH, Prest.
MARGARET BAIRD,
EMMA WOOLLEY Coun's.
MARGERY RIGGS, Sec.


OBITUARIES.
	A sadness and gloom has overcast our little
ward of Vermilion, by the death of our noble
sister and colaborer in the Relief Society and
wife of our worthy Bishop.
	Amelia Gottfredson was the daughter of
Edward and Betty Gledhill was born in Oldham,
Lancashire, England, May 31st 1854, she came to
Utah with her parents in 1868, married Peter
Gottfredson in 1872, they made their home in Mt.
Pleasant, Sanpete Co. for three or four years,
then moved to Vermilion Sevier Co. where they
have resided ever since.
	At the Organization of the Relief Society of
this ward in 1880. Sister Gottfredson was chosen
first Counselor which position she held till her
death. She also was Assistant to the President
of the Primary Association. Sister Gottfredson
is well known by many, as her home has ever
been a haven of rest to our brethren traveling
through our little ward.
	She died on the 17th of March 1893, at the age
of 38 years, 9 months and 17 days. She was
surrounded by her family, brothers and sisters,
(except her youngest brother who is absent on a
Mission in England.)
	She leaves a kind husband and 7 children (the
youngest only 2 years old) and many relatives
and friends to mourn her loss. She suffered for
many months with dropsy, but died peacefully at
last like a true Latter-day Saint resigned to the
will of the Lord.
	May she rest in peace till the morning of the
resurrection and we be worthy to meet her.
							VIOLET IVIE.

Editor Exponent:
	OUR little town of Escelanta has had a shadow
of gloom cast over it, caused by the death of two
of our noble sisters. The first was Sister Lucy
Cooley who passed away Dec. 30th, 1892, she
was the daughter of George and Sarah Prince
born Dec. 29th, 1861 at Kaysville, Davis Co.
She was a kind and dutiful daughter ever obe-
dient to her parents and always of a religious turn.
She formed the acquaintance of Joseph Woolley
and was married to him Sept. 12th 1878. She was
a faithful member of the Relief Society, and an
energetic teacher, on her death bed she expressed
a desire to soon be able to go round teaching.
She was a good, exemplary teacher always striv-
ing to do her duty. She was a devoted wife and
mother. She leaves a husband and six small
children to mourn her loss. She was loved and
respected by all who knew her; she suffered
greatly but never murmured; she died as she had
lived firm in the principles of the gospel in hopes
of a glorious resurrection. Blessed are they who
die in the Lord.


AT the same place March 26th 1893, Sister
Elinor Barker was called to leave this world of
sorrow. She was the daughter of Thomas and
Susannah Heap, born in Yorkshire, England
Dec 3rd 1858, Emigrated with her parents in 1863
in Brother McArthur's company; they settled in
Toquerville where she was inured to all the
hardships of the early settlement of that district
of country; they were pioneers in many of the
settlements of the saints; she was one of the first
women that crossed the rough and trackless
mountains into this valley, where the flourishing
town of Escalanta now stands. Soon after her
arrival here she gave her heart and hand in
marriage to Peter Barker a worthy young man;
she was a faithful wife and mother ever working
for the comfort of her husband and children.
She was a member of the Relief Society in good
standing. She was the mother of eight children.
two of whom went before her to the spirit world.
She lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint.
She leaves a husband and six children and a host
of relatives and friends to mourn her loss. Peace-
ful be her repose.
	MARY T. WILCOX Cor. Sect.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
       Office: 11 South, First West Street.
Office  practice  for Diseases  of Women from  2
                      until 4 p. m.

       Woman's   Co-operative    Inst'n
                   	  Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY 
    ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
         AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
              POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates 
styles, Hats and   Bonnets  cleaned  and  retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc.  Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
   No. 41 S.                WEST TEMPLE STREET,
				               Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

                  MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED  her office,  from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

                      R.K. THOMAS
          26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
		   SALT LAKE CITY.
		    The Leading Retail
			  Cash House
		      R.K. THOMAS
	      DAVID   JAMES   &   CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[-] Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORC[-]
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
he country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box.  306. Salt Lake City
   DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP, will  commence
her summer class in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Monday May 1st 1893.
   Office and  residence  34  East, 5th  South
Telephone 383.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15 and MAY 1, 1893. No. 21.


CONTENTS:
	Opinions about Names. Sister Minerva W.
Snow—C. A. Conover. U.W. P. Club—Gladys
Woodmansee. Primary Report, Colonia Juarez, 
Mexico—Caroline C. Romney. N. W. R. S. 
Passing Thoughts—Camelia. National Relief 
Society—E. B. Wells. Mrs. East's Visit. W. S.
A., Salt Lake Co.—Ella W. Hyde. Our Boys
and Girls—E. H. L. Murray. R. S. Reports. 
Notes and News. Miscellaneous. Mary E. 
Ericksen. Obituary.
	EDITORIAL:—Temple Dedication. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—A. Handful of Violets—Hyancinth.
Love's Questioning—Lillie T. Freeze. Menu for 
a Happy Day—Selected. Promise You Will
Love Me Always—Caroline B Pratt.


A HANDFUL OF VIOLETS.

'Twas a morning in midwinter,
	Cold but clear as joyous May,
Over dale and lonely woodland,
	A snow-white mantle lay.
The delicate hoar frost decking
	Tree and shrub with strange device;
And a filmy mist was rising
	From the river's broken ice.
The sun shone out with a brightness
	That dazzled the watching eye;
The smoke curled lazily upward
	Towards the clear azure sky.
The wind rose high and sadly moaned
	Through the boughs of leafless trees,
And whirled the white snow into drifts,
	Joined the ice-clad river's breeze.
Thus it was when they came to me, 
	Still with dewy fragrance wet,
Plucked in the warm and sunny south,
	A "handful of violets."
And in fancy I saw the hands
	That gathered the blossoms rare;
A sad-faced mother, somber clad,
	And fatherless boy so fair.
So tenderly, aye reverently,
	She stooped the flowers to part,
With thoughts of their hoped-for mission
	Fast filling her aching heart.
The great brown eyes gaze wond'ringly
	At his mother's falling tears,
"Poor mamma," the sweet lips whisper,
	Words of comfort low she hears.
Two weeks, with water daily changed,
	They bloomed nor their beauty lost,
'Till sunshine stole the snow away,
	And spring rains destroyed the frost.
Long before their fragrance perished,
	Over his couch they were strewn;
In the lone, beautiful city,
	With its peaceful dead entomed.
Wooed to life by balmy breezes,
	With their wishes unexpressed,
Far from the sunny south they came,
	On a northern grave to rest.
Only one lived, and that—ah, well,
	I have told you where it rests;
How the stilled heart beneath must love,
	That "handful of violets."
May 3rd, 1893. HYACINTH.


LOVE’S QUESTIONINGS.

IN the valley of the Temple
	Where God's work in beauty gleam,
From the snow capped peak or meadow,
	Rose-blown hedge or rippling stream.

In the shadow of the Temple
	On the hill-side fair to see,
When thy gaze was all enraptured,
	Came sweet tender thoughts of me?

Did you think of nature's lover
	How her eyes would feast the while,
Viewing o'er each scene of beauty
	'Neath the charm of thy sweet smile?

In the music of the Temple
	Swelling sweet with prayer and praise,
Came a thought of joys unmeasured,
	That we knew in other days?

In the glory of the Temple
	Where the angels met with man,
Great and precious truths revealing
	Of the gospel's glorious plan.

When the Holy Ghost in power
	Filled thy soul with perfect peace,
Did you long for me that hour?
	Did your love for me increase?

To my spirit comes the answer,
	In sweet accents soft and low,
Giving me a blest assurance,
	All my trusting heart would know.
					LILLIE T. FREEZE.


OPINIONS ABOUT NAMES.

	THE Ladies' Home Journal  for May
contains a number of articles on letters
from prominent women on  the subject of a
married woman using the husband's name
or her own also after his death.
	Our opinion has been for some years that
it is better for all purposes that a woman
use her own name, also that girls be given
one name only and retain the father's name
in  connection  with that  of the   husband
after marriage, then one knows directly who
she  is, and   her identity is  preserved.
Where girls have double-names, for con-
venience, drop out one of the names (even
if it should be the name of the great grand-
mother) and retain the name of one's own
father which is a courtesy and  an honor to
him.   The son should always (in our hum-
ble opinion)   in   connection  with  the
name  given  him  at  birth  have also the
maiden name of his mother  which keeps
up the dignity of both families and makes
things equal as well as signifying the distinc-
tive lines to which the families belong.
	We give here the opinions of some very
celebrated women writers of diverse views
on this subject.

	I SHOULD say that the general usage in
this  matter,  somewhat  modified  by  the
various clubs and other associations among
women, would be sufficiently correct.   In
formal  society  a  lady  may, perhaps,  be
more conveniently  identified  by  her hus-
band's name, as Mrs. John Smith.
	In literary life, however, and in associa-
tions, the woman should be known by her

[Column 2]
own baptismal name, which is that naturally
and necessarily used in her correspondence.
				JULIA WARD HOWE.

	ALL that I can say on the subject is that,
personally, I prefer to see a married woman
keep her own name—as Mrs. Sarah Smith,
instead  of  Mrs.  John  Smith—but  that  I
recognize perfectly the social needs which
arise to make it more  convenient  that the
name of  the  husband  be  used  in  family
designation.
		ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS WARD.

	I CONFESS to entire ignorance as to the
most  acceptable  manner   of addressing a
married woman, nor do I know that there
is any recognized  code or rule applied to
this question; therefore, I can only give my
preferences and opinions.   I do  not like to
see a letter addressed  to a married woman
by her own first name.   The husband's full
name,  not his initials,  in  my  judgement,
should always be used.  This is  more  dig-
nified for the  wife, more respectful to  the
husband, and certainly more convenient for
all business purposes.   One thing is certain;
personally  I  always prefer  to  have letters
addressed to me as,
		MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER

	ACCURATELY speaking I know little of
the subject of  marriage titles.   In England 
a married woman is always called  by  her
husband's name,  whether  her husband be
alive or dead.   For instance, if  I were liv-
ing in England or Scotland, I would be ad-
dressed as Mrs. Robert Barr as long as I re-
mained  unmarried  a  second  time.     Mr.
Beecher and Mr.  Miriam told  me that  in
America a  widow resumed her  Christian
name, and acting on their  advice I signed
myself as Mrs. Amelia E.  Barr. But if the
custom of the country permitted, I should
infinitely prefer to  be called by  my  hus-
band's name because, if I am no longer his
wife, I am  at  least  his  widow.     I  think
affectionate remembrance would desire to
keep the husband's name.   I know I would
gladly have done so.
				AMELIA E. BARR.

	I DO not know that I recognize any code
in this matter, because a  woman  who  has
given her name to the public while unmar-
ried cannot expect that public to  observe a
strict social code when she marries.   At the
same time, I like to have my  social letters,
and all home and domestic correspondence,
addressed to Mrs. Robert M.  Wilcox, as it
is to my husband that I owe my home, and
the social position of a respected and pro-
tected wife.
	I do not expect editors and publishers to
take this matter  into  consideration,  how-
ever, as it is my work, and not my  person-
ality, which has made  me  known to them.
I expect them to address  me  by the name
which has made me of interest to them as a
correspondent.
	But there is always a greater pleasure to
me in seeing a letter bearing my husband's
name than those  which come simply ad-
dressed to	ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


THE question seems to me a matter of
very simple solution.  Looking on it as
custom founded on reasons of propriety,
convenience and natural sentiment have al-
ready settled it.  A man marries a woman
to give her, upon her own consent, the
place and title of "Mistress" of all of
which he is "Master," his honor, his home
his family and his name.  The two become
one, and one name is therefore becoming
for the two.  Upon this theory of things
long established, the custom founds itself
and is perpetuated; the man's name is the
wife's name, as it is to be his children's,
and it is that by which, in all their joint
life and interest, domestic and social, they
are known and recognized as a pair.
Neither relinquishes individuality; each
has a personal name still.  Mary Brown is
not John Brown, of all that concerns them
together.  If he is Doctor Brown she is not
"Mistress Doctor," but still simply Mrs.
Brown.  This is also the case if he is
Reverend, Right Reverend or His Ex-
cellency.
	If Mrs. John Brown transacts business,
signs a deed, makes a will; if she keeps a
shop or a school, or is herself professional;
if she should become known as an artist,
musician, author—she does al these things
personally as Mary Brown; "Mrs." only
because of her married estate and surname;
and it is needful that her personal signature
shall be used and shall represent her. Mr.
John Brown is not herein responsible.
	I think a true wife will like best to be
known, to her life's end, by the name sh
would wish most of all to honor.  If she
become a widow she will prefer to keep it,
as in memory and faith; only waiving it,
perhaps, when a son's wife comes to bear,
in her turn, the very same.  Then the
elder wife and mother may retire, in a
modest dignity, upon her own personality.
It used to be a beautiful courtesy, in such
cases, for the world outside to distinguish
her as "Madam" Brown.
ADELINE D. T. WHITNEY.

	I FEAR that I have not any definite
opinion on the subject.  My own reason
for using Mrs. Hodgson Burnett on my
cards was a very simple one, indeed.
There were several Mrs. Burnetts in Wash-
ington during my first winter here, and as
one or two had initials similar to Dr. Bur-
nett's, confusion arose on one or two oc-
casions.  A number of my friends sug-
gested that if my card bore my name, as
Mrs. Hodgson Burnett, they would know
who had called at such times as they were
absent from home, and they had only the
card to refer to.  My first name is never
used, except by newspapers.  I blush to
discover that I am never of the slightest
use in a discussion, my one ruling opinion
being that everything which is not a brutal
crime or a shining virtue is, more or less, a
matter of taste; and as my own taste is to
leave to every one else the entire right of
decision in matters pertaining to theirs, I
must, perforce, wear at times an air of be-
ing indefinite, even on such stray occasions
as when I am not.
	FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT.
	WHENEVER the conventionalities of so-
ciety are concerned I think the husband's
name should be used, and whenever it is a
personal or business matter the wife's
Christian name.  In the case of a widow
she has a right, in my opinion, to wear her

[Column 2]
husband’s name when there is no son bear-
ing the same name.
	HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORD.
	
	IT seems preferable to use the appellation,
Mrs. John Brown, rather than Mrs. Mary
Brown, when, because of the husband's
prominence, explanations and misunder-
standings may be avoided.
	Not many decades ago it was woman's 
highest ambition to become a wife, and she
who had reached the age of thirty without
having attained this result became an ob-
ject of pity and reproach.  Many a girl has
given her hand in marriage, unaccompanied
by her heart, rather than incur the unpleas-
antness of advanced maidenhood.  To be
an "old maid," in that earlier day, was to
invite criticism and derision.  At one time
woman was a helpless creature dependent
upon the strength and chivalry of man.
She not only bestowed her hand and heart
upon her home-giver, but her very identity
was sacrificed upon the marriage altar.
There are many Hannah Janes who, like
the heroine of Locke's pathetic story,
learned too late that the "rubbing out" of
self brought unhappiness to the one they
hoped to benefit.  It was very appropriate
at that time, when woman was known only
as the wife of her husband, that her identity
become merged in his. Mrs. Dr. Jones
was never suspected of being a practicing
physician; she was only the wife of one.
	Higher education for woman, resulting in
a broader field of usefulness, is gradually
changing many long-established customs.
The wife now recognizes the fact that for
the security of home happiness she must
not only be the moral leader of husband
and sons, but intellectual companion as
well.  In the larger development of her
mental and physical powers she naturally
desires to set aside the props and shields of
former ages, and to bear the responsibility
of her opinions in her own name.
	I would advocate that woman retain her
maiden name through life, and at marriage
annex the name of her husband.  Why
should Mary Clark become lost to the
friends of her youth, except to the few who
are acquainted with the fact of her marriage
with James Howard, when Mary Clark
Howard would convey her girlhood’s iden-
tity as well as that of her married life?
	ROSE HARTWICK THORPE.

	My own preference is to be addressed
Mrs. Lyman Abbott whenever it is in any
sense public, and always on the back of a
letter.  I took my husband's name when I
married, and I prefer to be sheltered under
the whole of it so far as I can be.  Of
course, in signing my name, I ordinarily
use my legal signature.
	A. F. H. ABBOTT.
	A MARRIED woman should always be ad-
dressed, unless she prefers it otherwise, by
her husband's name.  I do not know of
any hard and fast rule in this matter; it is a
question of accepted form in America.  In
England the husband's given name is gen-
erally omitted where the address is clearly
understood.
	CONSTANCE CARY HARRISON.

	IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNATURE
	(By Frances E. Lvnigan.)
	IN these days of multitudinous correspon-
dence the necessity for some way of show-
ing in a woman's signature, whether she

[Column 3]
be maid, wife or widow, whether she be of
the married orunmaried estate, is realized
as never before.
	The mystery of the usual feminie sig-
nature when it is attached to a business
letter, leads almost invariably to embarass-
ment on the part of the answered.  No
woman likes to be addressed with the Quak-
erish simplicity of "Mary Brown" whether
she be matron or maid, nor if she be the
former does she wish to be addressed as the
latter.
	In proceeding to some opinion as to the
best course to be adopted, the thing which
must not be done should first be thoroughly
understood.  The vulgarity of the titular
signature "Mrs. Mary Brown," or "Miss
Susan Smith," affixed after a "yours very
truly" can only be excused by its evident
intent to be one of the solutions of the
problem.  This form is the one to be
avoided.  A fashion recommended by com-
mon sense,simplicity and good taste, is that
of placing "Miss," in brackets, a little to
the left of the name,as:
	Yours very truly,
	[Miss] Mary Smith.
	Its equivalent for the married woman is
found by writing below her signature, “Ad-
dress Mrs. John Smith,” as:
	Yours very truly,
	Mary Smith.
	Address Mrs. John Smith.
	The value of concerted action is un-
questioned, and the necessity for it in the
accomplishment of any given purpose quite
as evident, therefore, if this problem of
identification of signature is ever to be
solved, it can only be by united agreement
on the part of women to adopt for all time
some such form as the above in their busi-
ness correspondence.
	The growing fashion of giving girl-
children but one name, as "Helen" or
"Katherine," so that when, if they marry,
they may retain, with their new signature,
their full maiden name; is part of this
subject of identification of signature.
"Mollie Irene Brown" is not as euphonious
nor as sensible as "Mollie Garfield Brown"
or "Nellie Grant Sartoris."  This custom
has the further advantage of securing the
woman's immediate recognition not only as
her husband's wife but also as her father's
daughter.  Mrs. Brown or Mrs. Sartoris
signifies but little, but Mrs Garfield Brown
or Mrs. Grant Sartoris tells its own story.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EVERYWHERE the world speaks for unity, 
everywhere the race sighs for unity, every-
where the heart of man beats for unity.
—W. S. Rainsford. D. D. 
	THE ethnographic exhibit at the Chicago
Fair will be partly within the main building
and partly outdoors—the collections being
within and other features without. The 
American department will include speci-
mens of native tribes living their usual life
and engaged in their occupations; relief
maps of the most famous earthworks of the
Mississippi Valley; models of the mysteri-
ous structures of Yucatan and Central
America, with casts of the hieroglyphics;
Peruvian mummies; palaeolithic implements
and relics of the mound-builders, photo-
graphs of mounds and ruins from Alaska to 
Tierra del Fuego; illustrations of primitive
religions, games and folk lore; and numis-
matic, zoological, geographical and natural
history collections in general.		Popular
Science Monthly.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MENU FOR A HAPPY DAY.

"TAKE a little dash of water cold,
	A little leaven of prayer,
A little bit of sunshine gold
	Disolved in morning air.

Add to your meal some merriment, 
	Add thought for kith and kin,
And then as a prime ingredient,
	A plenty of work thrown in.

But spice it all with the essence of love,
	And a little whiff of play;
Let a nice old book, and a glance of love
	Complete the well spent day.”
							SELECTED.


PROMISE YOU WILL LOVE ME ALWAYS.

		I will ask of you a promise
			Now while I am young and strong,
		’Tis that you will truly love me
			When the years have rolled along.
		When life’s cares and trials leave me
			With deep lines upon my brow,
		And my brown hair turns to silver, 
			Can your heart love then as now?

		Now I’m young and have life’s pleasures,
			Gay young friends to cheer each day,
		And your love will be much dearer,
			When the years have passed away.
		When these friends that now are near me
			With my youthful days have flown,
		Tell me, can you love me truly
			Then when I have older grown.
	
		If your love to me is precious
			When each day with pleasure rings
		Oh, how much my heart will need it
			When old age unto me clings.
		When my steps are slow and feeble
			Hushed the merry sound of glee,
		After years of life together 
			Will you, can you still love me?
 
		When I’ve gone beyond the river
			Left on earth all pain and care.
		And you too have passed the portals, 
			And we dwell together there,
		I will want your love in Heaven
			When our circle is complete;
		Promise now that you will love me
			When beyond this life we meet.
						CAROLINE B. PRATT.


[Column 1]
SISTER MINERVA W. SNOW
	HONORED.

	A VERY pleasant social gathering was
held in the Manti Temple on the 22nd of
March in honor of the seventy-first an-
niversary of the birth of Sister Minerva
W. Snow.
	Her sweet and gentle spirit and her 
integrity to duty has endeared her to all
who know her and especially to her co-
laborers in the Temple.  Desiring to show
our love and appreciation for her, a few of
us sisters planned a surprise for her and in
cousulting Presidents Lund and Maiben,
they invited us to have it in the Temple.
We gladly consented and the following is
Sister Snow's description of it, written to a
friend:
	"We had assembled as usual at the
Temple and Prest. Maiben, at the close of
his remarks in the morning service, ex-
pressed a wish to meet the workers in an
upper room, after the day's work was done.
At the appointed time, all the workers,
with a few intimate friends who had been
invited, assembled there. Of course care
was taken by friends, to keep me in the
proper place and I had no thought of what

[Column 2]
was going on, until some of the sisters came
and said Brother Maiben was waiting for
us.  Hurrying with them, imagine my sur-
prise when I entered to see so many seated
around the room, I began to feel that some-
thing was up, but was not certain until Bro.
Maiben arose and spoke very beautifully
and feelingly upon our associations and
Temple labors and announced that our
gathering was in honor of the seventy-first
anniversary of Sister Snow's birthday.
	He was followed by Andrew Thompson
and others after which President Maiben
called on me to speak.  I arose feeling
very humble and full for gratitude to my
brethren and sisters for the kindness ex-
tended to me on this occasion. The meet-
ing was clo ed by singing Doxology, after
which a few moments were spent in hand
shakings, congratulations and good wishes.
Supper was then announced and President
Maiben kindly invited us to go to the
dining room where a large table was spread
and beautifully decorated with fruit and
flowers and loaded down with the bounties
of the earth.  About forty persons were
seated around the table, and everything the
heart could wish spread before them.
Near the head of the table was a large
beautifully ornamented cake, prepared by
the ladies of the Temple and bearing the
inscription.  "M. W. Snow, aged seventy-
one.'  We enjoyed ourselves until about
dark, when all returned to our homes with 
blessings for each other n thankfulness to
our Heavenly Father.
	"I feel that great credit is due to Sisters'
C. A. Conover, Christina Willardson and
Nellie Jensen, the committee who instituted
the surprise and also to Brother John Whit-
beck for his generosity and able assistance.
Nor must we forget President Maiben, who
in his kind and friendly manner made the
occasion as pleasant as possible. President
Lund was called away to the city, which
we very much regretted, but he left his
blessings and approval for the day.  We
pray the blessings of heaven may rest upon
him, for we love, honor and respect him in
this holy Temple.  All present contributed
to the occasion.  About fifty persons were
present, many of them presented me with
beautiful tokens of their love and remem-
brance, helping to make it one of the fairest 
flowers in the garland of memory."
	Upon reading this correspondence, I felt
that it would be only proper to send it to
the EXPONENT,  believing that its many
readers would be pleased to know of the
honor conferred upon one so widely known
and dearly beloved as is Sister Minerva.
	C. A. CONOVER.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	A MEETING of the U. W. P. C. con-
vened in the new EXPONENT parlor April
29th, 1893, with a goodly number of the
members in attendence. Mrs. E. B. Wells
presided, and Mrs. Lucy Clark offered
prayer.
	The minutes of the March meeting were
read and the roll call was responded to by
choice sentiments or verses.
	Miss N. V. Davis gave an interesting
and instructive lecture on the different
kinds of verses, lucidly explaining the
construction of the different stanzas, and
aptly illustrating the same.
	Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze read an original
article, entitled, “What is Religion,”
written in the lady’s usual able manner.
Gladys Woodmansee sang a song, which


was followed by an interesting and humor-
ous verbal description of Samoan women
and their customs, given by Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze. Miss Mamie Freeze favored
the club with some very fine instrumental
music, which was much appreciated. The
President spoke regarding the U. W. P. C.
becoming associated with the Territorial
Federation of Clubs, read the constitution
of and a communication from the Federa-
tion, and explained some of the benefits to
be derived from the connection. It was
moved and seconded that we join the
Federation. Remarks were called for, and
the members expressed themselves as
being in favor of the connection, the
motion was carried.
	Article second of the By Laws was moved
by motion, and Mrs Lizzie Wilcox, Mrs.
Ida Haag, and Miss Mamie Conrad were
voted in as members of the U. W. P. C.
In connection with the Prest. Miss May
Preston was voted to act as delegate for the
club, at the convention to be held in
Chicago during the World’s Fair.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of her expected
absence at the time of our next meeting,
but hoped we would carry on the meeting
as usual. Miss Pearl Russell kindly
favored the club with a vocal selection, and
benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Phebe
C. Young.
	Program for next meeting: Article on
the Sixth Sense, Mrs. L. G. Richards;
recitation, Miss N. V. Davis; music Mrs.
Maggie Bassett.
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Secretary.


PRIMARY REPORT, COLONIA
		JUAREZ, MEXICO.
MRS. LOUIE FELT:
	DEAR SISTER—Perhaps a few items in
regard to the Primary Associations of the
Mexican Mission will be of interest to you.
There is an association in each of the four
settlements of this Mission, and, judging
from the reports at our recent conference
they are all in a flourishing condition.
	The Mission organization was effected at
our February conference with Sister Ettie
Teasdale, President; Sisters Victoria Pratt,
and Abbie Young, Counsellors.
	Two Primary Conferences have been
held since the organization. The last one
was held on the 26th of August, President
Ettie Teasdale presiding. A good spirit
prevailed and many excellent instructions
were given by the leading sisters; also
Apostle Teasdale and others of the leading
brethren. There was a very fair represen-
tation from all of the associations, each of
which assisted in rendering a programme
prepared for the occasion, consisting of
songs, recitations, etc. The children all
took their parts in a very pleasing manner.
	During conference the primaries held a
fair in the basement of the schoolhouse,
under the management of the president.
	There was a very fine display of Child-
ren’s work, consisting of straw braid, hats,
quilt-blocks, stockings and various kinds of
fancy work, as well as many specimens of
cookery done by the little girls. While the
boys had a very fair showing of fruits and
vegetables, also a few specimens of their
mechanical genius.
	The whole affair was a credit, considering
the short time they had for preparation and
the busy season of the year.
	Ever wishing for the advancement and
welfare of the Primaries throughout
Zion, I remain your sister in the Gospel.
		CAROLINE C. ROMNEY, SEC.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorical Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non pareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C.M.I. Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,  APRIL 15 and MAY 1, 1893.


TEMPLE DEDICATION.

	THE General Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints which
was held this year, commencing on Tuesday
the fourth of April, 1893, in the large
Tabernacle in this city at 10 o'clock a. m,
was one of the most important Conferences
ever held. President Wilford Woodruff
presided, which fact was very gratifying to
all who attended. People came from far
and near all over the country and from
various parts of the United States, Mexico
and Canada. President Woodruff's sermon
was very comforting, his kindly counsel
and tender manner of expressing himself
working a deep and lasting impression upon
all those who sat within the sound of his
voice.
	The two days of the Conference were
occupied by the Apostles and leading
authorities of the Church, much of the
teachings being in regard to the Temple
dedication and the preparations necessary
to enter in-to such a sacred and holy place.
	The dedication services commenced on
Thursday morning, April 6th, in the audi-
torium of the Salt Lake Temple forty years
from the day when the corner stone was
laid. The interest attached to this impor-
tant event has a greater and deeper sig-
nificance than appears from the outward
seeming.
	In fact no event of modern times is so
important, and fraught with such momen-
tous consequences to the world and its in-
habitants as the opening of this holy edifice
for the administration of ordinances that
pertain to the living and the dead, to the
past and the present, to the endowments
and covenants that unite families and kin-
dreds in bonds inseparable.
	By the Latter-day Saints great things are
anticipated in these places of worship, and
the revelations of heaven and ministration
of angels is a part of the expectation looked
forward to and firmly believed in.
	Therefore when the dedication of this
Temple, “the house of the Lord in the tops
of the mountains” actually transpired, it
did not seem strange that atthe same time
a tremendous wind should arise, con-
sidering that the Prince and power
of darkness is always opposed to the work
of the Lord. 
	The Bible and sacred records refer to the
Temples built in former days. Some of
them were of magnificent proportions and
beautiful, splendid and gorgeous even in
their appointments and surroundings. Solo-
man’s Temple is considered the most fin-

[column 2]
shed type of all, and yet we who live in
this day and age expect greater results to
follow the dedication of this Temple just
dedicated than any other ever erected to the
most High.
	The prayer offered by President Wood-
ruff on the occasion of the dedication was
the most inspirational and wonderful ex-
pression of power and intercession with the
heavens that we ever have heard. It com-
prised everything essential to the salvation
of the world, and no order or organization
was forgotten, but the blessing of God
earnestly invoked upon all. 
	The sermons and discourses by the First
Presidency partook in a great measure of
the nature of the prayer and were full of
charity, long suffering, forbearance, and
forgiveness. The spirit of love, the love of
the Gospel was apparent through all the 
services. The choir which consisted of three
hundred voices (the ladies all in white),
under the leadership of Prof. Evan Stephens,
rendered the most excellent music, but the
most striking feature of the dedicatory
exercises was the “Hosanna Shout,” three
times repeated by the entire congregation
who rose to their feet and remained stand-
ing during the time. This shout of Hos-
anna thrilled the hearts of the vast multi-
tude, and echoed grandly through the mag-
nificent building; so exultant and enrap-
tured were the saints in their rejoicing that
their faces beamed with gladness, and the
whole place seemed glorified and sanctified
in recognition of the consecration made on
that momentous and never-to-be-forgotten
occasion. The prayers of the people had
been answered, that their venerable  and
beloved President might live and preside at
the dedication of this Temple, the most
important one yet finished or ever begun in
this generation. This was an accomplished
fact and there and then it seemed to some
at least who witnessed the ceremonies, that
angels and celestial beings were there in
power though not visible to human sight.
	The day was one looked forward to,
finally and longingly by many thousands
who have already passed to “the other
side,” and their joys was as great perhaps
greater even than ours who are here, as
the increase of knowledge in a higher
state, which they have doubtless attained,
must exceed that of finite minds.
	The services of the Dedication continued
until April 24, thirty-one meetings had
been held at which the First Presidency
and Apostles with many other leading men
of the Church were regular in attendance.
The same order of exercises was observed
all the way through, and from first to last
the most intense interest prevailed.
	The Sunday School children passing
through the Temple and joining in the
“hosannahs” must have been a sight for
angels to gaze upon, and undoubtedly
myriads of them were present.
	The Latter-day Saints look forward
with anxious expectancy to the building of
the Temple so long talked of and prophe-
sied of in the center stake of Zion, many
have been the prophecies concerning it, and
their fulfillment is as firmly believed in as
though it were an accomplished fact.
	The spirit of charity has been very appar-
ent and its influence has been comforting
and encouraging to the people. President
Woodruff and those associated with him
have set an example for the Latter-day
Saints in this respect that should be wide
spreading in its effect through-out the
length and breadth of Zion.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE readers of our little paper will
doubtless be glad to know that a volume
has been prepared for the exhibit in the
Utah Building at the World’s Fair in
Chicago together with the books by Utah
women. It contains one copy of each vol-
ume for twenty years and all the copies of
Vol. 21, except April 1st, which was not
ready when the book was bound. It is
handsomely bound in red morocco with the
name in gold letters on the outside, and
will speak better than mere words for the
women of the Territory.
	THE Committee in silk called by Mrs.
Salisbury just before leaving Utah for the
World’s Fair are doing excellent work.
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, the Secretary of
the Committee, has been both North and
South and devoted much time and been
very energetic to look up cocoons, and a
variety of articles as well as reeled and
spun silk etc. The exhibit of silk is likely
to be very good and quite elaborate from
present indications. Mrs. C. W. Burnett
the Chairman, is deeply interested in mak-
ing the affair a success.
	The ladies of the Salt Lake County As-
sociation really deserve credit for what they
have accomplished towards the Columbian
Exposition! The several World’s Fair
Clubs in the county have done very well
indeed and deserve great praise for their
efforts, and the Chairmen of Committees
who have had special work entrusted to
them have not only been diligent in collect-
ing and looking after the specimens of work,
but have done much at their own expense.
The means used has been from member-
ships to the Association and from lunches'
given by the ladies’ and their proportion,
from the proceeds of the Columbian ball.
Some of the work has been very expensive
but the management has been judicious, as
will be seen when the accounts are' all
handed in. The ladies have worked to-
gether in the Board and in Committees in
harmony, and have really become much
endeared to each other through the pleasant
association.
	The books by women include nine by
Sister Eliza R. Snow, three by Sister Han-
nah T. King, three by Augusta J. Crocheron,
others are Mary J. Tanner, Reba B. Pratt,
Cornelia Paddock, Jennie B. Frasieth, Mrs.
W. S. McCornick, translations from the
German, Mrs. Mary E. Almy, Emily B.
Spencer, Hannah Cornaby, and other Utah
women. Another edition of Sarah E.
Carmichael’s book of poems is to be issued
by the Ladies’ Literary Club of this City
and will be placed in the Utah Building.
	Songs and flowers of the Wasatch, the
book of poems mentioned in the paper be-
fore will soon be completed it is beautifully .
llustrated in water colors by Edna Wells
Sloan, and will be dedicated to Mrs.
Margaret Blaine Salisbury. The very
large book of photographs of Utah
architecture prepared by a committee of
ladies contains views of the oldest and
newest residences with many public build-
ings, some of the oldest and
newest residences with many public build-
ings, some of the oldest style and others
more modern—a large picture of the Salt
Lake City Temple. The book is very large and
weighs fifty pounds. Mrs. Rhoda B. Lip-,
man and Mrs. Lizzie K. Crismon worked
very diligently in this Committee, and they
are justly entitled to praise from those in-
terested in the Utah exhibit


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


N. W. R. S.
	DEPARTMENT CONGRESS OF THE
NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Department Hall, No. VII, of the Mem-
orial Art Palace, Michigan Avenue, facing
Adams Street, near the centre of Chicago,
Friday, May 19, 1893. Morning session,
10 o’clock.
	(Program of Exercises.)
Music, Voluntary,			Kate Romney.
Congregational Hymn,
	“O My Father, Thou That Dwellest.”
Prayer,				Sarah M. Kimball
Opening Address,		Zina D. H. Young
Relief Society,		Jane S. Richards
Women in Medicine, 	Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.
Pioneer Women of Utah,   1847-48,
					M. Isabella Horne
The Children,			Zina Y. Card
Song,  “Our Mountain Home So Dear,”
					Cornelia H. Clayton
Amusement of the early days (Paper)
						Nellie Little
Western Women, Authors and Journalists.
(Grain Saving by Women)
					Emmeline B.Wells
Types of Women,
					M. Hughes Cannon, M. D.
Impromptu,			Emily Shurtliffe
Industrial Women,		Electa Bullock
		Doxology and Benediction.


[Column 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS

	THE TEMPLE—The great event has
come—it is passing. Daily thousands of
people pass within the sacred walls, gaze
with wonder and admiration, join with
faithful hearts in the grand inspiring
prayer, hearken to the soul-stirring music
of the choir and the interesting and pro-
phetic words of the Apostles, join in the
hosannahs to God and the Lamb and pass
down the granite steps, without the portals, 
scarcely realizing that hours have passed,
for so rapt are they in the events of the 
moment. During the week of the dedi-
cation I have gazed from my casement
windows towards the great edifice and 
watching the tall graceful towers, like
angels in the blue sky have lived over 
again those precious momentsspent within
the walls.
	Some say that places so beautiful, so
chaste, so sacred are fit dwellings for
angels and that their forms may be seen
and their voices may be heard, so almost 
divine is the feeling that prevades the soul
while enjoying the services in this holy
place.
	They are the angels of love and mercy,
of good will and charity, and in our hearts
alone do we feel their presence. This 
dedication is to the Saints the greatest event
for many years. How long we have
watched the building of the Temple and
as stone has been laid upon stone our faith
and prayers have been offered for the safe
and perfect completion of the building and
now that it is so handsomely completed
well may we feel proud and happy. The
Temple is so dear, so sacred to us all. How 
as a little child I remember the sight of the
great stones one at a time being hauled
along the streets by two yoke of oxen and 
we would all stand for them to pass with a
feeling of awe and reverence, and so in 
later years when the trains brought the
white stones by car loads I always stood 
and waited to see them pass with the same
feeling, again when visiting the quarries in

[Column 2]
the mountains I felt the same sensation,
and I am only one of thousands who have 
watched the rearing of those walls and
seemed to be a part of them, so much have
our thoughts dwelt upon and longed for
the day of completion.
	On the sixth of April, 1853, when the
corner stones were laid perhaps those dear
ones who took part in the services hoped
and believed to also take part in the dedi-
cation, but alas! how few are left, only three
of the apostles, one patriarch and one high
priest, some few of the choristers and 
musicians, can any of us of a later gene-
ration imagine the intense delight of them
at this time when they look back over
those forty years of temple building and 
now realize the consummation of their
hopes and prayers. The thought is beauti-
ful to me, it is almost heavenly, and I 
greatly enjoyed seeing the greeting of those
aged fathers and mothers within the blessed
walls, and marked the happiness in their
faces as they seemed to say, "it is finished,"
and as I watch them and think of them I 
feel to say God bless you and may you yet
live many years to enjoy that house your
labor and prayers and faith have built. How
well repaid the saints all feel when they
behold the elegance and grandeur of this
temple with its massive walls, its frescoed 
ceilings, its marbled and inlaid floors, its
elegantly wrought and carved founts and 
baths, its soft carpets, its dainty hangings, 
its art windows, its exquisite furnishings all
blending and combining making a Temple
perfect and complete beyond compare.

	MUSIC:—During the temple dedication
the people of Utah had a wonderful and 
beautiful revelation concerning the divine
art. Did any of us really know before the
talent of our musicians? From the morn-
ing of the first meeting, when the three
hundred trained voices, under the baton of
our admired Evan Stephens, peeled forth 
those beautiful anthems and hymns until
the close of the three weeks during which
not only the Salt Lake choir but also the 
choirs of Utah, Weber, Cache and Sanpete
Counties sang for us there was a continual
and delightful surprise. The capability of
the Utah choirs has long been known and 
commented upon and their renditions of
difficult music have been much admired,
not alone by our own people but by 
strangers who have visited us,and our choir
leaders have had many deserved compli-
ments but their fame as composers has not
been so widely known. Surely all who
listened to the divine and inspiring strains
during the conference will no longer doubt 
their ability to compose and will bestow
just praise on all. The words alone, so 
appropriate and sweet, the music tender yet
sublime and the most perfect rendition 
made a feast for the soul.
	There was not a little surprise afforded us,
when we learned that the beautiful words
of one of the anthems, was composed by 
Miss Domettie Smith, daughter of Prest.
Jos. F. Smith, a young woman so modest
of her talents that this is the first public
use she has made of them and what a 
glorious occasion it was; surely it was well
chosen.
	The concerts in the large tabernacle af-
forded much pleasure to our visitors as well
as ourselves. Being a people gathered
from all parts of the world it is very de-
lightful to listen now and then to the
national songs of our native lands,especially
when so enthusiastically sung by our little

[Column 3]
children. Our own dear song, “The Star-
spangle Banner," is always new,though we
heard it every hour and the heart beats a
response to every word like a martial ac-
companiment. If ever I lived in another
land and that land became my home I know
that the words and notes of that song would
bring the tears from my eyes,the sighs from
my heart, at the same time my soul would
throb with pride and joy at the thought of
that precious flag. Feeling all this I know
that others feel the same and it was a 
happy thought to have the national concerts
at this time for every Englishman loves
to listen to the strains of “Rule Brittania,”
the Irish weep at the thought of "The
Dear Little Shamrock,” the sturdy Scott is
ever proud of “Auld Lang Syne,” and so
do the Welsh, the Swede, the Dane and
Swiss, the German, the Italian and the
French love their native land and all that
calls forth sweet memories of it. Truly
asks the poet:
	Is there a man with soul so dead
	Who never to himself has said,
	This is my own, my native land.
	Of all the national airs the one most
widely known and sung in other countries,
not its own, is the song of France—"The
Marseillaise," and the history of this won-
derful hymn recently published in music
is so interesting that I shall glean the
principal points for the EXPONENT. 'On
the 20th, of April, 1792, France had de-
clared war on Austria and Prussia and a 
feeling of intense patriotism pervaded the
French empire. Four days later the may-
or of Strassburg gave a banquet and
among the guests was Claude Joseph
Rouget de Lisle, captain of engineers, a 
young man popular and some what noted as
an amateur poet and musician. The host 
asked the captain if he could not write a 
war song for the departing volunteers and 
Rouget de Lisle answered yes, and went 
home. That whole night he sat at his 
desk, and when the morning of April 25th
dawned the "Marseillaise" was finished.
It was the result of one night's work and 
he called it the war song of the army of the
Rhine. On that very day it was played by
a full orchestra on the market place in 
Strassburg, and the "Marseillaise" cele-
brated its first triumph. The northern
wing of the French army brought the song
with them to the seat of war and copies of
it were quickly scattered over the whole of
Alsace. In Paris it remained unknown for
some time. First it must pass through
Marseilles. In June, 1792, the council of
Marseilles had collected a number of volun-
teers who understood how to die and whose
moral worth was generally such as to
deserve death. These Marseilleans were
feasted by their fellow citizens on June 25.
A citizen by the name of Mireaux from
Montpelier, rendered Rouget de Lisle's
song, the enthusiasm it created was tre-
mendous and on the following day a leading 
journal of the city printed the song under 
the title, "The war song of the frontiers.'
	The soldiers of Marseilles who went to
Paris brought copies of the song with them
and sung it while entering Paris July 13th, 
and again in August while the Tuilleries
were stormed it was sung by the whole
populace. In Paris, where the history of 
the song was unknown, it was called 
'Hymn des Marseillaise;' this became its
final name. As 'La Marseillaise' it is not
alone the patriotic song of the French
Republic, but the song of liberty or rather
of revolution for the whole world. There


are various opinious about the origin of this
song and many believe it to have been
really of German origin, the latest researches
however would show it to have been taken
from an oratorio called Esther by Grison
and thus of French origin.”
	The Marseillaise is now a hundred years
old. It is sung in every land and grows in
popularity every year. It is one of those
things that can never die. 	
	CAMELIA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NATIONAL RELIEF SOCIETY.

	THERE was a semi-monthly meeting of
the National Woman’s Relief Society held
at Social Hall on State street, in this
city, on Tuesday April 5th, at 7 o’clock in
the evening. President Zina D. H. Young
in the chair, Vice Presidents Jane S. Rich-
ards and Bathsheba W. Smith were present
with her in the stand, and Emmeline B.
Wells, secretary. There were of the board
of directors a sufficient number for the trans-
action of business and a goodly number of
members. The constitution and by-laws
were read by the secretary; also the min-
utes of the meeting held at the time of the
incorporation.
	Remarks relating to the business of the
meeting and the benefits that would be
derived through the incorporation were
made by President Mrs. Young, and
Vice-President Mrs. Richards.
	The first business was the filling of va-
cancies in the board of directors caused by
the death of Elizabeth Howard and Harriet
D. Bunting since October last.
	Mrs. Adeline S. Barber of Logan was
elected to fill Mrs. Howard’s place in the
board and Mrs. Harriet Y. Brown of Kanab
to fill the place of Mrs. Bunting.
	Fifteen new members were admitted by
vote, and several of the ladies present spoke
briefly upon matters of importance connect-
ted with the organization.
	On Wednesday evening the annual con-
ference of the Relief Society was held at
the same hour, 7 p. m., in the same place,
at which the president, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, presided. There was a very full
attendance, the house being crowded to
overflowing. Verbal reports were made by
presidents and representatives from many
parts of the Territory also from adjacent
states and territories and from Canada and
Mexico.
	Susan E. Martineau, the representative,
had come four thousand miles to attend the
meetings and conferences at headquaters;
other representatives had come from Canada,
New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Idaho,
Wyoming and other far distant places.
	In addition to reports, interesting
speeches were made by the president and
vice-presidents. The conference was con-
tinued on Thursday evening at the same 
place with a full attendance, and other
representatives made reports. Mrs. Burton,
of Arizona, told some very interesting
things concerning the Lamanites in Arizona,
among whom there seems to be great im-
provement.
	Mrs. M. A. Winters, of Pleasant Grove, 
made some explanations concerning a work
she was doing for those who had suffered
during the journeyings and persecutions
of the Saints.
	E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


MRS. EAST’S VISIT

	THE many friends of Sister Willmirth
East, President of the Relief Society of St.
Joseph Stake, will be glad to learn that she
arrived in Salt Lake City, April 1st, enjoy-
ing good health, and buoyant in spirits, and
finding her loved ones waiting with tear-
dimmed eyes and open arms to meet her.
She has enjoyed herself very much in the
meeting with dear old friends during the
conference, and with joy exceeding and full
of glory for the privilege of attending the
dedicatory services of the most holy and
beautiful Temple, in honor of the God of
srael, which is glorious beyond description.
She attended the general conference of the
Relief Societies, and gave a favorable report
of the labors of the sisters, and also atten-
ded a meeting of the officers of the Y. L.
M. I. A. held April 5th, and reported the
associations to be in a flourishing condition.
Said since the visit of President B. H.
Roberts, there had been a decided improve-
ment and have felt more of the spirit of the
Lord than for years past, reported the
health of the people of the St. Joseph Stake
to be better than it ever had been previously
since the valley was settled. She will visit
the central board and attend the conference
of the Primary Associations while she is in
Utah, and other meetings wherever she is
invited and able to go. Her friends and
especially the sisters are delighted to see
her and hear her welcome voice once more.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
13th Ward Assembly Rooms, April 18th,
1893. Pres. Nellie C. Taylor ln the chair.
Opened by singing, “New America.’’
Prayer by Vice Pres. Elizabeth M. Price,
Singing, “Help the Working Women.’’
Roll called and minutes of previous meeting
read, amended and accepted.
	Vice Pres. Elizabeth M. Price suggested
that each one express her ideas; she won-
dered if something could not be thought of
to make the meetings more interesting, and
draw people out. Spoke of visiting people
at their houses, found they did not under-
stand these subjects, thought if they were
explained, more interest would be taken.
Spoke upon the law of consent. Mary P.
Silver gave her experience in visiting peo-
ple, not very satisfactory. Susanna Water-
fall thought women could do a great deal
of good, asked the Lord to prosper this
understanding. Mary A. Irvine said she
was heart and soul in suffrage, wished more
would attend the meetings, thought people
had wrong ideas concerning it, if women
could vote we would not have so many
dens of infamy.
	Julia Druce like the rest was a true suf-
fragist, did all she could to help the cause in
talking with others, thought we should
gain each other’s confidence, and should
ntroduce these subjects in other meetings
and sociables. May Talmage was interes-
ted in suffiage, she had also visited around
soliciting names, thought the greatest point
to be gained was to get people to under-
stand what suffrage was, hoped we would
get the interest revived. Had always en-
joyed the meetings, they were for our own
benefit, thought the more we came the
more we would want to.u
	Ella W. Hyde thought if we were united
in trying to create an interest in the meet-


ings we could make them a success. We
should each try to bring a new member.
	Pres. Nellie C. Taylor said that woman
was her own enemy in speaking against suf-
frage, they did not understand it, we do
not want to hold the reins but we should be
true to each other and uphold women and
seek to elevate man kind, thought it a good
dea for each one to bring a new member.
Meeting stood adjourned until the third
Tuesday in May.
	ELLA W. HYDE, Sec. pro. tem.


OUR BOYS AND GIRLS.

	WHAT shall we do with our boys and
girls too, for that matter? is a question that
is agitating the minds of hundreds of par-
ents in Utah today. I mean the poorer
classes. We make every effort and sacrifice
to educate them to some extent, and when
they become fifteen or sixteen years of age,
we need their assistance and it is time that
they should commence to take a part in the
great battle of life. “For life is real, life is
earnest.” Our girls are not all fitted by
nature for household drudgery, though they
should understand house-keeping in all its
details. If we send them to Salt Lake City
to work at anything, our minds know no
peace, for there is every allurement and
fascination to lead them astray. Why
should one dollar lay idle, when there is so
much to be done? Why do not our capital-
ists invest? Why should we import our
gloves, cotton hosiery, ribbons, corsets,
underwear, and hundreds of other articles
too numerous to mention. May the time
speedily come when some enterprising, pub-
lic-spirited, magnanimous men will start
such industries in outside settlements to
afford employment for our young people
that we may keep them at home. We
have everything in Utah to make us self
sustaining, if Utah will work for Utah.
Suppose our capitalists do not amass thous-
ands of dollars, they will have the satis-
faction of knowing that their works will
live long after they have passed to that
bourne from which no traveler returns.
	E. H. L. MURRAY, S. L. Co.

	MISS HULDA LUNDIN, directress of Sloyd
in the public schools of Stockholm, is the
only woman sent officially by the Swedish
government to the World’s Fair. She will
make an exhibit there of the system. 
	AMONG the musical compositions on the
programme of the dedicatory exercises of
the Woman’s Building at the World’s Fair
are a dramatic overture by Miss Frances
Ellicott, of London, and the “Jubilate” for
mixed voices and orchestra, written for the
occasion by Mrs. H. H. A. Beach, of
Boston.
	MRS. MAUD HOWE ELLIOTT goes to
Chicago on business connected with the
publication of the book on the Woman’s
Building and its exhibits at the World’s
Fair, which she is now compiling and edit-
ing. It will contain an introduction by
Mrs. Palmer, president of the Board of
Lady Managers; a chapter on the building
and its decorations, by Mrs. Elliott; a
paper by Mrs. Julia Ward Howe on various
Associations of Women; one by Mrs. Ednah
D. Cheney on Education; one on Literature
by Mrs. Laura E. Richards; one on Women 
in Science by Mrs. Louise P. Hopkins, and
contributions by other writers on various
branches of decorative art. The volume
will be profusely illustrated.


THE ornaments of a home are the friends
who frequent it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R.S. REPORTS.

JUAB STAKE.

    THE Quarterly Conference of Juab Stake
Relief Society was held at Nephi, March
19th, 1893. President Mary Pitchforth
presiding, after opening exercises, of sing-
ing and prayer, President Pitchforth address-
ed the conference, referred to the first
organizations in Nauvoo, fifty-one years
since, spoke of the circumstances of those
early days, felt thankful for these as-
sociations; spoke of  the circumstances of those
early days, felt thankful for these as-
sociations; spoke of the dedication of the
Temple, of the benefits and blessings
that we may derive therefrom, urged the
sisters to look into their hearts that there be
no feelings or obstacles in the way to pre-
vent them recieving a blessing.
    Sister Ann Wilhey represented the South
Ward of Nephi, the officers and teachers
were faithful and diligent in preforming
their duties, the poor, were well provided
for. Had a great desire to attend the dedica-
tion of the Temple.
    Counselors Amy L. Bigler expressed
thankfulness at being present, sickness pre-
venting her meeting with us for some time,
desired an interest in the prayers of the
society, that she may ever be faithful to the
cause, and do the will of her Heavenly
Father continually. Sister Rebecca Udall,
praised the energy and faithful labors of the
sisters of the North Ward of Nephi, her
faith in the Gospel had never faltered, desired
to be present at the dedication of the Tem-
ple of Temples.
    Counselors Hannah Jones, urged the
sisters to criticize their hearts that no wrong
feelings exist therein, bore a faithful testi-
mony to the religion we are engaged in.
    Sister Bessie Kendall and Sister Elizabeth
Miller rejoiced in the work, desired to live
firm and faithful.
    Mrs. Langley Bailey then read resolu-
tions of respect gotten up by the sisters of
the Juarez Relief Society, Mexico, in
memory of our beloved friend and Sister,
Matilda E. Teasdeal. 
    Bro. Charles Sperry felt that each as-
sociation were mutually interested together
for the same cause, desired those that
should go to the Temple to have their
lamps trimmed and burning, hoped none
that felt themselves unworthy would enter
that holy Temple, felt that the Spirit of
God was in our midst.
   Prest. Pitchforth spoke of the non repre-
sentations of the Juab, Levan and Eureka
branches, the unfavorable weather having
prevented their attendance, had recently
visited the branches,they were in a flourish-
ing condition, all seemed to enjoy the spirit
of their callings, felt to rejoice in the hum-
ble spirit of our meeting, prayed that the
Spirit of God might rest on all present.
    Bishop Warner felt that all who entered
the Temple would recieve a blessing there-
from, exhorted all to live up to their
priveleges. Sister Bessie Kendall was set
apart as first Counselor and Emma Cole as
second Counselor of the North Ward of
Nephi.
    The Spirit of God was poured out in
rich abundance upon the speakers and an
humble forgiving spirit prevailed with all
present. 
   Benediction vas pronounced by Patriarch
Udall. Conference adjourned for three
months.
			ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH.
				                Stake Sec. R. S.


SANPETE.

	THE Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion held in Ephraim,
March 11, 1893. Counselor Sarah Petersen
presiding. Singing, "O give me back my
Prophet dear." Prayer by Bro. R. N.
Allred. Singing, "Prayer is the soul's
sincere desire." Statistical and financial
report of the Relief Society of the Stake
read, also a letter from President M. A. P.
Hyde. The Relief Society of Mt. Pleasant,
Fairview, Fountain Green, Ephraim and
Fayette were each reported as being in a
flourishing condition. Counselor Minerva
W. Snow felt that we had been edified by
the sisters that had spoken. Said here be-
fore me are some of the children of our
Father in Heaven and those who are striv-
ing to keep the commandments of God.
Seek unto the Lord in humility. The
Relief Society was organized by the
Prophet Joseph. We are working with
men who hold the Holy Priesthood. We
are wonderfully blessed by having the
privilege of working in the Holy Temple.
Spoke at some length of her labors in the
Manti Temple. Advised us to study our
duties to the best of our ability and ask the
Lord to assist us. We should prepare our-
selves that we may be worthy of going in-
to the Salt Lake Temple. Let us be hum-
ble and prayerful continually that we may
be counted worthy of the blessings of our
Heavenly Father. If we see a sister that
seems to be on the downward track, let us
go to her and speak kindly and try to lead
her in the right path. She may have had
trials that have been hard to bear. Ex-
horted us to try and be more united and
strive to live lives of holiness.
	Apostle Lund expressed his pleasure in
meeting with the sisters in their conference.
Said, "We do not live this life only. A
greater object is in view, viz., eternal life."
	The good you do here is preparing you
for hereafter. In doing good you bless
yourself as well as your husband. Do not
speak of the evils of others but be kind and
charitable to all. Strive to help bear the
burdens of others and your own will be-
come lighter. Blessed the sisters in all
their endeavors to do good. Sister M. W.
Snow requested the sisters to remember
Sister M. A. P. Hyde in their prayers.
Counselor Sarah Peterson exhorted us to all
diligence in keeping the commandments of
God. Said we did not comprehend the day
in which we live, that we have the privilege
of going into the Temples.
	Sister Helen Armstrong was unanimousiy
sustained as the corresponding secretary of
the Stake. Conference adjourned for three
months. Choir sang, "We thank thee O,
God, for a Prophet." Benediction by Bro.
N. Christensen.
		MARY ANN FRANTZEN, Stake Sec.


BEAVER STAKE.
	THE quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake was held in the L. D.
S. Meeting House, Beaver City, Aug. 6th,
1892.  President Lucinda Howd presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises the
local Presidents reported their respective
branches of the Relief Society as being in
good condition and doing all they could to
fulfill their mission.  The statistical and
financial reports were then read.  The bal-
ance of the time was mostly occupied by
Mrs. Elizabeth Howard and Mrs. Ardella
Eardly.  Such topics as:  keeping minutes
properly, punctuality, the necessity and


efficacy of prayer, cleanliness, taking the
EXPONENT,sustaining the Deseret Hospital;
and teaching our children obedience to the
priesthood and the law of tithing, Word of
Wisdom, observance of the Sabbath and
fast days, were treated by these sisters in a
very pleasing and instructive manner.  We
enjoyed the visit and their instructions very
much and hope they will come again soon.
	President C. D. White was pleased with
the counsel we had had.  Thought if it
were carried out our lives would be happier
and more useful.  The Stake officers were
unanimously sustained by the conference as
follows:  Lucinda Howd, Pres.  S. M.
Dell, 1st Coun.  Lydia White, 2nd Coun.
Louissa Jones, Sec.
		LOUISSA JONES, Stake Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. FENWICK MILLER will attend the
World’s Congress of Representative Women
as an official Representative from the
Women’s Franchise League of England,
and will deliver an address upon “Wives
and Mothers: Their Civil Duties,” in the
Department Congress of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association.
	“SOME of our most celebrated women
are going over to Chicago for “The World’s
Fair.” Among them are Mrs. Fenwick
Miller, the distinguished authoress, journa-
list and lecturer. Mrs. Miller will doubtless
write an account of the Fair for some of the
London papers, and I am glad to hear that
she is also going to show the Americans
how an Englishwoman can speak. Among
our platform speakers Mrs. Miller is almost
supreme. She is never nervous, she has
a good presence, an excellent manner, and
a beautiful voice. And she has the subtle,
incommunicable art of being able to enchain
the attention of large crowds of people. I
believe she proposes to be absent for about
two months. I wonder if she will intro-
duce to Brother Johnathan her lecture on
London Society? I fancy it would prove
one of the most popular lectures ever de-
livered in America.”
	From the “Hearth and Home” of Eng-
land.
	NOT long since the Roman Church was
the only one to observe the Easter season,
but of late years the custom has spread all
over the Christian world and at Easter tide
the churches vie with each other in their
beautiful floral decorations, trailing vines
and potted plants are on every side, but the
flower most used for the Easter decoration
is the fair tall Easter lily. In Bermuda at
this time of the year there are vast fields of
these glorious lilies bowing and swaying in
the April winds. What a wonderful sight
this would be to us who so admire but rare-
ly see this graceful flower.
	'If I only could write the colors
		Of the lilacs towering plumes,
	And make you feel in a sentence
		The spell of its sweet perfumes.”
	APRIL—the month of hope the month of
promise. How we laugh in its sweet sun-
shine, how we weep it its soft rains. What
fanciful thoughts possess us as we watch the
purple glow in its twilight—thoughts of old
folk’s love— sweet memories of the past fill
our soul and with the setting sun tears fall
from eyes that but a moment since were
radiant with smiles.
How sweet the poet sung who said, “My
love is like an April day, all smiles all
tears.” It is the month dear to the heart,


so tender, so gentle, like a little child it
seems, and every bud on the trees, every
leaf, every blade of grass is tenderly
watched for, do they not refresh the sight
after the long cold barren winter. How
eagerly we listen for the first sweet notes of
the “meadow lark” and how gently we turn
the soil for the first sight of the fragrant
violet, then to rejoice when the dark green
leaves and fair purple blossoms of the stately
lilac bush present themselves. Dear, ten-
der April we welcome thee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MISCELLANEOUS.
	NO wound can be so deep as the one
inflicted by a friend.
	BETTER three hours too soon than one
minute too late.—Shakspeare
	THE supreme fall of falls is this—the
doubt of one’s self.—Countess de Gasparin.
	It is our own vanity that makes the van-
ity of others intolerable to us.—Rochefou-
cauld.
	SLANDERS are like flies that pass over a
man’s good parts to light upon his sores.—
Rule of Life.
	THE love that has no form of expression
may be very deep and true, but it is practi-
cally useless.
	A WOMAN'S sympathy, instead of scorn,
should go out to one of her own sex who
has gone wrong. 
	IT will be an ill day when we are so en-
gaged in seeking lost sheep that we forget
the lambs.—Spurgeon.
	I SUPPOSE it’s a bit hard to think any-
thing’s over and gone in our lives; and
there’s a parting at the root of all our joy.—
George Eliot.
	INVIOLABLE fidelity, good humor, and
complacency of temper outlive all the
charms of a fine face and make the decays
of it invisible.—Tatler.
	CHARITY is a principle of prevailing love
to God and good will to men which effectu-
ally inclines one endued with it to glorify
God and to do good to others.—Gruden.
	SINCERITY is to speak as we think, be-
lieve as we pretend, act as we profess, per-
form as we promise, and really be what we
would seem and appear to be.—Rule of
Life.
	CHILDREN have always a sympathy in
the agitations of those connected with them;
always, especially, a sense of any trouble or
impending revolution, of whatever kind, in
domestic circumstances.—Hawthorne.
	THE noblest contribution which any man
can make for the benefit of posterity is that
of a good character; the richest bequest
which any man can leave to the youth of
his native land is that of a shining, spotless
reputation.
	ONE of the easiest things in the world is
to find fault, and in no place are there so
many opportunities for doing so as in the
home. There are so many little things
occuring daily in any good-sized family;
such as misplacing a garment, leaving a
door ajar, and a thousand and one trivial
things that readily provoke the fault-finder.
	Few people would be willing to answer
“present” to the roll call of fault-finders.
Indeed, so insidious is the ugly fault when
once formed that it blinds its victim to the

[Column 2]
﻿possibility of seeing his own faults. So
busy with the faults of others he has no
time to attend to his own.
	Like all elements of character, fault-find-
ing starts as a very little thing, and then
grows. The habit of criticising friends,
neighbors, people at church, the preacher—
all these are the beginning of the chronic
fault-finder’s education. A genuine, Chris-
tianized love for one’s fellow-men will soon
do away with all fault-finding.


MARY E. ERICKSEN.

	ONCE more we are called upon to record the
death of one of our young ladies, who died Nov.
24, 1892, Mary E. Ericksen. She was born at
Round Valley, Morgan County, September 16,
1874, and was at the time of her death eighteen
years two months and eight days old.
Desceased was a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints and a teacher in the
Sunday School, she was the daughter of Michael
and Mary E. Ericksen; her death caused a cloud
of gloom to come over us; and at the Sunday
School resolutions of respect were adopted.
	Resolutions in memory of Mary E. Ericksen
who departed this life Nov. 24, 1892:
	Whereas, an Allwise Providence has in his wis-
dom and in a sudden and unexpected manner taken
from our midst by death our beloved sister and
col-aborer Miss Ericksen, and
	Whereas: we the members of the Willard
Sabbath school, while humbly submitting to the
will of Heaven feel it a duty to express our ap-
preciation of her labors and our sorrow at her
seemingly untimely death.
	Resolved I. that the faithfulness and energy
manifested by her in her labors in the Sunday
School, Y. L. M. I. A. Choir, and the Ward be
held in grateful remembrance.
	Resolved II that in her death this Sunday
School has been deprived of one of its faithful
teachers and the Ward of one of its promising.
members.
	Resolved III. that we share the heavy burden
of sorrow which weighs upon her relatives, and
extend to them our heartfelt sympathy in the sad
bereavement.
	Resolved IV. that these resolutions be kept in
the record of the Sunday School and that copies
be sent to her parents and to the county papers
for publication Jas J. Chandler, Ellen Ward and
Jane Hubbard, Committee.

		"We miss thee from our home dear,
			We miss thee from thy place,
		A shadow o’er our life is cast,
			We miss the sunshine of thy face.
		We miss thy kind and willing hand,
			Thy fond and earnest care,
		Our home is dark without thee
			We miss thee everywhere.

		Peaceful be thy silent slumber,
			Peaceful in thy grave so low,
		Thou no more will join our number, 
			Thou no more our sorrows know, 
		Yet again we hope to meet thee,
			When the day of life is fled;
		And in Heaven with joy to greet thee. 
			Where no farewell tears are shed.”
										M.


OBITUARY.

	DIED at Mill Creek Ward, April 11th, 1893,
Ann, wife of Patriarch Washington Lemmon,
daughter of John and Hannah Cook, born Dec.
29th, 1819, in Newthorpe, Nottinghamshire, Eng-
land. Emigrated to Utah in 1853. Resided in
Salt Lake City till the year 1860 then removed to
Mill Creek Ward where she resided until her
death.
	In Aug. 1877, she was chosen Counselor in the
R. S., June 24th, 1880. When the Primary As-
sociation was first organized in the ward, she was
elected President of the first District, the first
position she held until her demise, from the latter
by her request, she was honorably released May,
1890, on account of failing health, in each of
these positions, she was faithful in the perform-
ance of her duties.
	Sister Lemmon was very much interested in
Primary work, the children loved her and felt
grieved when she resigned.
	The Relief Society will feel the loss of this dear
friend,her counsel was ever fraught with wisdom
and encouragement, many times she has said,
there was nothing outside of Mormonism that


was of any interest to her, for therein was con-
tained everything that was pure and noble and
calculated to exaet the human family. At the
meeting held in March she was in her accustomed
place, but when the ladies met in April one month
later, and was informed that she had died that
morning, the deepest sympathy was felt by all
present.
	She embraced all the principles of the Gospel
as far as they were revealed to her, truly she
could say, I have finished the work Thou did’st set
me to do.
	Funeral services were held at the family resi-
dence, there was a large attendance of relatives
and friends to take part in the last sad rites of
the dear departed one.
	The remarks of those who spoke were very
consoling to the bereaved family.
	The remains were laid to rest in the ward
cemetery there to await the resurrection of the
just.
	The members of the Relief Society extend
their heart felt sympathy to relatives and friends.
There is consolation beyond the grave, the promise
of eternal life to those who love and serve the
Lord and obey His commandments.
								COUN.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
		until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY-
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S.	 WEST TEMPLE STREET,
		Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p. m.

R.K. THOMAS
	26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

	DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt lake City

	DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP, will commence
her summer class in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Monday May 1st 1893.
	Office and residence 34 East, 5th South
Telephone 383.


Mary [-]. P. Hyde
							   WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.			161
