Vol. 21.                         SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1892.      No.   4.


CONTENTS.
	A Notable Anniversary. In Rural England—
A Story. Miscellaneous. R. S. Report. Dis-
covery Day—Francis Bellamy. Col. and Mrs.
Parker. Amelia B. Edwards—Miss M. Betham
Edwards. Prehistoric Man in America—Mary
Morrison. World’s Fair Notes.
	Editorial:—The History of Utah. A Grand
Woman Suffrage Rally. Editorial Note. Obitu-
rary. U. W. P. Club—E. R. Shipp, Rec. Sec.
	Poetry:—Our Mother's Grave—L. M. Hew-
lings. The World of the Heart—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. Hidden Pearls—Hyacinth. Dreams
of Childhood—Mrs. L. S. Dickinson.


OUR MOTHER’S GRAVE.

In a strange land unknown, unmarked,
	No flowers placed by friendly hand,
No marble shaft points to the spot,
	Nothing attention to command,
Towards one who sleeps in grave so low,
	In undisturbed and silent rest,
While summer’s bloom and winter’s snow,
	Reclothe the earth above her breast.
The soft and silvery moonbeams sleep.
	Upon her distant hallow’d grave,
And silent dews of evening steep,
	The drooping boughs that o’er it wave.
Time with its seasons round have sped,
	With sun and shade for many years,
Since last the earth above her head,
	Was moistened by her orphan’s tears.
The tears, the pain, the earthly night,
	Of separation, have been keen,
The grave long holding from onr sight,
	A path beyond our human ken.
But now above her mold’ring clay,
	Hope points to us with holy light,
Revealing joys of endless day,
	Home of the ransomed Spirits flight. 
L. M. HEWLINGS.
ATCHISON, KAN.


[Column 1]

THE WORLD OF THE HEART.

"What is the world to thy heart, O, boy
	With the glowing, earnest eyes?"
"'Tis a broad fair field my strength to prove
	Where fame shall be my prize,
Where I shall battle unstained with wrong;
	Shall strengthen the cause that's pure,
'Till my deeds shall live in the poet's song
While men and books endure."

	And then I asked of the aged man:
		"O what is this world to thee?"
He said: "My world is not very large,
	The past has faded from me;
But my heart leans out to where, far away
	My sons and my daughters be,
With their flocks and herds on the mountain
		sides,
	Their homes in the vale below,
My heart would rest in their happy midst—
	It is there that I long to go.
I walk alone in the city's streets,
	O, what is the world to me!
When silence reigns in the empty home—
	My own, are the world to me."

And then I asked of a mother pale:
	"How wide is the world to thee?"

[Column 2]

She said: "One child lies buried where
	The oaks of Old England grow,
And an ancient castle threw its spell
	Where oft we have walked below;
And one lies rocked by ocean waves,
	Far down in its waters deep,
And one sleeps where, by desert road
	No stone doth a record keep;
Aud I am here, and those three graves
	That lie in the land and sea,
Have measured by their dear links, the length
	Of my heart's sad world, to me."

And then I asked of a lady bright
	With youth and with heart full free;
"O, tell me what thy world is like
	And what it doth hold for thee?"
"O, my world is very wide and fair,
	For my Captain lover goes
With his three good ships, where'er he choose
	And all the world he knows;
And I am with him in heart and song
	Wherever he guides his sails,
'Mid the balmy isles of the Orient
	Or the far North's chilling gales.
And the world of my heart is where he is,
	It is bright where the spices blow;
And oh! 'tis brave where he guides his ships
	Through the seas of ice and snow."

And then I asked one happier still:
	"How large is thy world to thee?"
"Not very large, but it holds enough
	That others might smile for me;
It holds not wealth or honors high
	But no happier hearts can beat,
We are king and queen in our own cot
	With our babe so fair and sweet;
'Tis a fair, bright world all peace and joy,
	With its blessings for us three,
And the future holds no thought of fear
	In my heart's world for me."

And last I asked of the sorrowing:
	"Like what is the world to thee?"
For thine arms are empty, thine eyes are sad,
	Come share thy sorrow with me."
She said: "As the heart, so is the world,
	In youth, or when it is old.
God, who gave the whole earth, gave to each
	A world of its own to mold.
Where the toiler heeded the still; small voice,
	For him the path was clear;
Where the pilgrim heeded his own heart's calls
	It hath led where the way was drear.
And ever ascending to the skies
	The cry of the creature pleads;
"Look Thou and help us, behold our work
	Our weakness and all our needs!"
And he sees the spirit amid the wreck
	Of human idols brought unto dust,
Ashes of roses' where the heart
	Had in the mortal placed its trust.
For my empty arms, my heart is full,
	Mine eyes through sadness see
One, only, who can my sorrows bear
	And walks unseen with me.
Some see but joy and know but half,
	Like flowers that bloom and die;
But souls that are made for usefulness
	Must stand where the storms go by.
To gain and yield, to endure, not mourn,
	No idol twixt God and thee—
To hope and wait for bliss, where? Beyond!
	This, friend, is the world to me.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


A NOTABLE ANNIVERSARY.

	Spain and America have been exchang-
ing civilities on the occasion of the anniver-
sary of Columbus setting sail from Palos on
his voyage of discovery four hundred years
ago on the third of August;
	A message was sent signed by Prieto,
Alcalde of Palos to the President of the
United States stating that the United States
flag had been hoisted in front of the convent
of La Rabida along with the banners of all
American States. Batteries and ships are
saluting amid the enthusiasm of the people.
The message closes with, "God bless Amer-
ica."
	The President of the United States cor-
dially acknowledges the message of greet-
ing through the Secretary of State.
	The day was celebrated in Spain with ap-
propriate festivities, historical procession,
illustrating four great events, The Con-
quest of Granada, The Departure of Colum-
bus, with the three vessels "Nina" "Pinto"
and "Santo Maria," these were reproduced
as they were 400 years ago and were drawn
on cars. The others were "The Court of
King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella and
The Reception of Columbus on his return
fron his first voyage."
	Another celebration will take place in
Madrid on September 12, when the great
exposition will be opened.
	All these affairs will be of an educational
nature to the world at large and help to im-
press upon the minds of the people every-
where important dates and occurances, the
causes that led to the discovery of this 
country and point out a lesson of the Provi-
dences of Our Father in raising up men in
all ages of the world to accomplish certain
things, which are preparatory to ushering
in other momentous changes for the uplift-
ing of humanity.
	The women of America cannot be too
mindful of what they owe to that noble
Queen, who so generously aided in the en-
terprise which has given to us, who live to-
day and to our fore-fathers and fore-mothers,
"this choice land above all other lands."
	It would seem as though the women of
America ought to do something magnificently
permanent to perpetuate the memory of
this singularly estimable and heroic Queen.
Her life is full of interest and teaches
through all the most admirable lessons of 
high moral courage, indomitable purpose
in the right direction on the side of principle,
and if she committed some errors, they
were but the fault of the times in which she
lived, and should not be remembered to-
day; but there is much in her history that is
superior and excellent.
	Pierre Martyr wrote on the day of her
death "The world has lost its noblest
ornament; a loss to be deplored not only
by Spain, which she has so long urged on-
ward in the career of glory but by every
nation in Christendom; for she was the
mirror of every virtue, the shield of the
innocent, and an avenging sword to the
wicked. I know none of her sex in ancient
or modern times who is at all worthy to be
named with this incomparable woman."


But for Isabella's personality in the ad-
venturous enterprise of Columbus he could
never have set sail from Spain; her eloquence
was soul-stirring. The words are pregnant
with the spirit of a queenly soul. "I will
assume the undertaking, for my own crown
of Castile, and am ready to pawn my
jewels to defray the expense of it, if the
funds in the treasury shall be found in-
adequate." A woman's courage inspired
Columbus to do and dare, all honor to
Isabella for her inspiration and zeal in the
enterprise, and wherever the name of
Columbus is inscribed, there too shall ap-
pear that of the royal, queenly woman,
Isabella of Castile.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XIX.
	The winter in London was superbly gay
beyond anything Clair or Lady Anna could
have imagined; Lady Walton entered into
the enjoyment with a zest scarcely consistent
after the protests she had made against
fashionable society, and her desire to do
something more useful, but she really
wished to initiate these young people into
the way and manner of the fashionable
world or as she herself expressed "the great
world," and all the ardor and vivacity of
her youth seemed to have returned as she
went from one place of amusement to
another, attended balls and parties and
made calls upon the great people.
	Clair was the favorite wherever the two
young men went, his foreign air and ac-
cent, his musical talent, and the mystery
that hung round him, which was a sort of
charm to the adoring mamma's and their
marriageable daughters,made him the centre
of attraction, or perhaps it was only the dif-
ference from other young men of distinc-
tion, the originality he possessed that was
the real cause. Lady Anna sometimes
felt she was more admired as Clair's sister,
than for her individual self. Yet Anna
was almost as much unlike other young
ladies as her brother was the generality of
young men.
	Miss Conway often thought what a
beautiful character her aunt Hilliard must
have been, to have such a lovely daughter
considering all the environments of her
cousin's girlhood,and knowing what a cold,
proud, haughty, arrogant man her uncle
Edward had been. He had his good points
she knew upon reflection and sometimes
she fancied he might have been different if
Anna's mother had lived to modify him.
Her principal fears for her cousin were in
Lady Walton's influence and yet she knew
that for Maitland's sake she would not wish
her to follow her lead exactly. Miss Con-
way scarcely ever attended Lady Anna to
any of the public balls, or receptions as
she always seemed de trop—for Lady Wal-
ton was very fond of playing the chaperone
to a lovely girl like Anna, and especially to
introduce her as the betrothed of her son.
	The winter passed quickly even to Miss
Conway for there were many things she
thoroughly enjoyed and she felt that her
stock of information was very greatly en-
larged. One can be always learning in
London, there is so much to see and to en-
gage one's attention, and Jane Conway was
one to make the best use of all that she
saw or heard, and she inwardly congratu-
lated herself that she would be much more
companionable as a wife, for having had
this opportunity. Although Miss Conway
had taken this London season quietly she
had really made more out of it than the

[Column 2]

others. Lady Anna had posed as a beauty
unconsciously to be sure, but it was a fact
nevertheless that it was her greatest at-
traction a sort of symmetrical beauty of face,
and figure. Clair was a favorite because he
could amuse and entertain company, he pos-
sessed to a great degree the faculty of mak-
ing others enjoy themselves without an
apparent effort, but Jane with her conscious-
ness of right and exalted ideas of personality,
and of cause and effect,looked on and learn-
ed from observation much that passed un-
noticed by her companions. Life was real
and earnest to her, and not the dream of a
summer day or the pastime of an idle hour.
She had sought to impress Anna with her
views until she came to London, and even
there gave her occasional glimpses of how
things appeared to her, but Anna seemed
not to comprehend life's great mysteries no
more than a child. Alas! for such women,
they often get the severest positive lessons
that enter like iron into the very soul, and
wound so deep that it is impossible for the
wound to heal however soothing the
remedies applied.
	Lady Anna's beauty attracted almost
universal attention, and was often the sub-
ject of conversation at fetes and receptions.
At a brilliant party given by one of the elite
of London, one evening when the season
was at its height, an elderly lady seated
near Miss Conway (who had gone by the
urgent persuasion of both Anna and Clair)
remarked to a gentleman on the opposite side
from Miss Conway, "Do you know Lady
Anna Hilliard, I mean the one in the soft
green costume dancing with Lord Simsbury
just there? The gentleman addressed re-
plied indifferntly that he had not that
pleasure and asked why she was so inter-
ested in watching her. "She reminds me
of an intimate friend of my girlhood, she
cannot be a relative I think for I have
made some inquiries about her, and yet she
has the very same eyes and her face is al-
together so like."
	"And what became of your friend, how
did you lose sight of her?"
	"She married suddenly I heard; some one
she had only known a short time, fell
desperately in love, and died soon after. I
was abroad at the time and never heard the
particulars, but by the bye I remember her
aunt with whom she lived had a son, who
was quite distinguished in literary circles,
he loved his cousin and was opposed to her
marriage, you would know him I am sure,
it would be in yonr time, let me see his
name was Harrison, Robert I think, I
wonder what became of him?"
	"Do you mean the Harrison who was a
member of Parliament for several years?"
Well I don't remember about that, but he
was very opinionated I think, he had
an opinion that the man this cousin was
going to marry was a downright villian,
and would break her heart." "The gentle-
man I allude to is in London now and by
Jove this romantic story of your friend has
interested me so much I'll call on him to-
morrow, and see if there can be any con-
nection between this young lady and the
one you fancy she resembles so strikingly."
"Depend upon it there is, I can see it in
every movement. See she comes this
way," and as the lady spoke Anna came
towards her consin who was so rapt in the
conversation that she was like one amazed.
She would not then repeat what she had
overheard but moved away and said aside to
Anna, "Do you know the lady who sat
next me or the gentlemen with her?"

[Column 3]

	It is Mrs. Devenish and the gentlemen is
Mr. Everhard I have not been introduced
but I have been told the lady is a most
amiable and attractive woman, and "blush-
ing deeply" that she greatly admires me
because of my resemblance to one of her
friends."
	"O, then you know what I have just
heard accidentally from her own lips."
	"To you, did she speak to you?" "No
child to the gentleman, who sat by her, his
name I think you said is Everhard, he is
going to trace the matter up through one
of his friends."
	"Then I shall know who I really do look
like, for no one has ever been able to tell
me."
	"Your father once said to me you were
very like your mother in temperament but
did not refer to features, I imagine this lady
must have your mother in mind, it came to
me as if by intuition, if I should prove to
be right in my idea, it will be a sort of
demonstration to me of the fact that I am
somewhat inspirational in my nature—and
I scarcely know whether that is a blessing
or the opposite, you know there are people
who know things before they happen; it is
either sensitiveness or susceptibility or some-
thing of the prophetic perhaps, and in our
day there are no prophets or prophetesses,
we only read of them."
	"My dear cousin," replied Anna, "this
is all Greek to me, I do not comprehend
your meaning, though I draw this inference
from it, that if it should have been my
mother whom I so much resemble that Mrs.
Devenish cannot keep her eyes off me, you
would begin to believe, you had the spirit
of the prophets—or was descended from one
of them."
	"Joking aside Anna, you ought to be
very glad if Mrs. Devenish can tell you
about your own mother for I think you once
said to me; you never heard of any relatives
on that side at all."
	"I suppose then we may expect a call
from Mr. Everhard if he finds out any-
thing worth hearing."
	"Possibly though I do not know that it
would follow." Here the ladies were in-
terrupted by Maitland who came to ask for
a dance, and Anna inquired whether he
knew Mrs. Devenish and would he intro-
duce her cousin and herself.
	"O, mamma knows her very well and
will be pleased to do the honor, but I
must not lose the chance of dancing in
this set, and the floor is fast filling," so
taking his arm, the two were soon gone,
and Miss Conway wandered into the library,
as she felt no inclination to dance; she was
looking backward to her childhood, and
trying to recall what her mother had told
her of her uncle and his affairs. She only
remembered her saying he was very rich and
could not forgive her for marrying a poor
man, and she had a faint recollection of his
neglect of home and duty. These reflections
together with the feeling she had of the
mysteriousness of presentiments, and what
some might term superstitions,absorbed her
so completely that she failed to notice what
other occnpants were in the room until at-
tracted by the conversation, hearing a
familar name spoken. She turned to look
and saw Mrs. Devenish talking to a lady
elegantly attired, and she distinctly heard
her say, "you will remember the Italian sing-
er whom we heard years ago and whose eyes
as well as her voice made so many men fall
dead in love with her, and all the ladies
jealous, O, I recollect so well my own


[Column 1]
﻿father raving about her wonderful black
eyes, she was the mother of young Hilliard,
there was a marriage it seems though no
one in England knew of it, she lived abroad,
but died very shortly; and the gossips say,
he was very glad, for he wonld not acknowl-
edge her in any way, though he had really
been over head and ears in love before the
ceremony took place.”
	‘‘Really Mrs. Devenish I do not even
remember the great singer, I suppose it was
very long ago, and one can’t always recall
the great people one has seen, even if they
were celebrated singers; but why are you so
interested in the young man and what do
you care about his mother.”
	‘‘It is not so much the young man himself
though he is very fine every way, charming
in fact, but the family, there’s a mystery
about them even to to the relative who ap-
pears in society as the chaperone. She is
not just like other people, so sedate and old-
fashioned, she watches over these young
people like a mother, indeed if all mothers
were as cautious, there would be fewer
matrimonial mistakes I fancy.’’
	‘‘I don’t think it matters much who or
what these people are, they have their own
part to play in life, and will probably not
come in contact with us in any way, it can
make no difference to us, one would think
you were looking out for a husband or wife
for a son or daughter, and going into the
merits of ancestry the way you talk of these
Hilliards.”
	‘‘O, no! not that and indeed it seems they
are all spoken for unless it be the young
man, and I’m not sure of him, in point of
fact there’s a question whether he can suc-
ceed to the title.”
	Jane wished she were out of the room,
she felt as if she were listening to a private
conversation, and yet it was unavoidable;
soon after the ladies left the library to-
gether and she was glad to make her escape;
she had never heard before that there was
doubt about Clair’s heirship, and as for his
mother she had pretty well guessed, that it
was a case of fascination and infatuation
and not of a lasting character. She de-
cided not to repeat even to Anna what she
had unwillingly over heard, as it would
very likely only excite her curiosity with-
out being of any benefit; she seemed des-
tined to obtain all the family secrets.
	A day or two after the ball referred to,
and when Jane and her cousin were quiet-
ly talking in their morning room, the ser-
vant announced visitors: ‘‘Mr. Everhard
and a friend of his from abroad.” The
girls looked at each other in silence, but
only for a second or two, then with her
usual firmness Miss Conway gave her
directions to the man in waiting. Ere long
the young ladies descended to the drawing-
room and the formalities of an introduction
were waived by the gentlemen saying, they
came on business, and proceeded forthwith
to inquire whether Lady Anna Hilliard
would like to hear something concerning
the family of her mother. “I see said the
gentleman who accompanied Mr. Everhard
that you are the living image of my cousin,
Clarice Courtenay, and as she was the most
lovable of women pardon me if I seem to
speak familiarly to you; as it is now about
twenty years since I met her last, and hav-
ing been much in foreign parts I had no
idea until my friend here informed me of
your living in London, that my cousin had
left any offspring.  I was so thoroughly
astonished by the intelligence, that I re-
paired at once to Sir Edward Hilliard’s

[Column 2]
lawyers, and ascertained the truth, and
made bold to call; it is an unwarrantable
intrusion, but pardon the eagerness on my
part, and remember, rising to go, that here-
after you have a friend and protector in
your mother’s cousin, Rob. Harrison."


27
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HIDDEN PEARLS.

There are gems in the deep heaving water,
	Whose exquisite beauty's unknown.
Where the turbulent waves never falter,
	In the melodies found in their tone.

In the broad tow'ring peaks of the mountain,
	Down valleys 'neath canopies blue,
Where the musical spray of the fountain,
	Is kissed by each shower of dew.

E'en the rude chiseled ledges, where creepeth
	The daintiest fern leaf and vine,
Are teeming with treasures that sleepeth,
	Awaiting but patience and time.

There are still sparkling gems without measure,
	In hidden recesses of earth;
To the heart they are fast fleeing pleasures,
	That vanish e'er known is their worth.

Yet, treasures there are, far dearer than these,
	That wealth of the world cannot buy,
Whose lustre outshines, with greatest of ease,
	All the riches for which we may sigh.

Truth, Modesty, Virtue, bright jew'ls so rare,
	You're to me far more precious than gold;
Through the windows of souls, saintly and fair,
	Beams your purity, ever extolled.

Truth thou art a jewel, proven and tried,
	And thy light sparkles brighter each day;
Many are seeking thee, both far and wide,
	And old Time will but smooth out thy way.

Sweet Modesty, thou gem of true goodness,
	Greatly valued, because rarely found;
Widely scatter the seeds of thy meekness,
	And lowliness, far o'er the land around.

Oh Virtue, of all things that are lovely,
	True gift that from heaven is given;
'Tis a diadem sacred and holy,
	On the brow where its purity's riv'n.

Truth, Modesty, Virtue, I adore you!
	Purest pearls of "first water" to me;
Spread your light ever round us as dew,
	Brightest type of the virtue we see.
			HYACINTH.
	ALPINE, July 22, 1892.


DREAMS OF CHILDHOOD. 

DEDICATED TO MY SISTER.

My home was not in grandeur built,
	Nor, was it a charming New England farm.
It was a home in happiness complete,
	A home possessing every charm.
The dearest memories of childhood,
	That linger about my heart,
Bring to mind, many dear friends,
	From whom I have had to part.

Though the scenes of my life change,
	And I wander over hill and stream,
Yet, will I find a quiet, happy hour,
	Of home and mother to dream.
Peacefully, am I sitting to night,
	Around my own quiet hearth,
Living over again, my childish life,
	With all its joy and mirth.


I am dreaming, fondly dreaming
	Of the home, the dear, old home
Of my childhood, where through
	Orchard and meadow, I used to roam.
Once more in twilight, then moonlight, 
	With brother and sister so dear,
We go out in the deep shadowy lawn,
	To play games, to us rich and rare. 

I wander through orchard and meadow,
	Sometimes bending to gather a flower
Not more beautiful than fragrant,
	Or sit beneath the dear, old bower.
Once again, I travel the well-worn path,
	That led to the old Gum Tree Spring
Where I sat so oft', in days of yore,
	To laugh, talk or to sing.

How I loved the dear, old house dog,
	That protected me from all strangers,
Accompanied me in rambles,
	And so kindly shared all my dangers.
Hush! breathe not one loud word, to
	Break the repose of my pet cat.
Perchance, he too, is dreaming sweet dreams,
	As he sleeps on the hearth mat.

Spirit of dreams leave me not here,
	But gently open my mother's door.
Let me see the fire picture the
	Paneled walls, as in days of yore.
As I dream, I see visions, as it were,
	Visions of love, bright and fair.
I see those I loved best on earth,
	To night, where are they? Oh where.

Ah! I see my father and mother at
	The close of day, sitting side by side. 
She with face so gentle, so beautiful,
	He loving, as if she was but his bride,
Father listening to childish prattle,
	Mother with wee young babe at breat.
Each speaking of the dear little ones
	The two loving hearts have laid to rest.

Just the same is my father's Library,
	Nor changed is my mother's chair.
Tread gently, through that dear, old room
	For the sweetest of my memories are there.
Lift not the mystic veil of the future,
	But let my dreams forever last
For me there is joy and gladness,
	In thus, dreaming of the past.
			MRS. L. S. DICKINSON.
SALT LAKE, July 27, 1892.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Laws ought to be fashioned unto the
manners and conditions of the people whom
they are meant to benefit, and not imposed
upon them according to the simple rule of
right.—Herbert Spencer.
	Whoever regards the early history of
Christianity will perceive how necessary to
its triumph was that fierce spirit of zeal
which, fearing no danger, accepting no
compromise, inspired its champions and
sustained its martyrs.—Bulwer.
	Strictly, no two persons can see the same
thing in the same way, for it can never
happen that two persons have precisely the
same groups of ideas relating to any subject.
These depend on our past experience, on
our education, on the belief of our times, on
our various sects or parties, on our pet
theories, our interests, and our desires.
Did we but bear this in mind how many
quarrels and disputes might be saved.
How modest we should be in condemning,
how gentle in reproving, how careful in
counseling.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3 00.  A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY	AUGUST 15, 1892.


[Column 1]

﻿THE HISTORY OF UTAH.

	A HISTORY of this Territory has been contem-
plated for years, and at last the time arrived when
it was really undertaken in earnest and with a
fair prospect of the ultimate success of the enter-
prise. The prevailing feeling everywhere seemed
to be that the right time had come and that the
right man had been selected to do the work.
Historians who anticipate doing their work satis-
factorily, must necessarily devote both time and
labor, and a great deal of each to the arduous
task.
	This one and that one comes forward with facts
and assertions, and anecdotes, and seemingly ex-
pect them all to be embodied in the work,
polished and elaborated by the author's genius,
when perchance the whole lot, or most of it, is
only so much waste matter. The man who is
writing the history is supposed to be competent
to judge what his book shall contain, to know
what to use and how to dispose of his subjects.
He may hear what some people have to say, but
cannot promise beforehand whether it will come in
or be discarded. History must be truth that will
recommend itself as genuine.
	Therefore the historian of any country or period
of time sets himself a Herculean task when he
consents to write the history of a country, and
especially when he attempts to cover forty years
and more, yes, nearly half a century as Bishop
Whitney has done, and besides to go back to the
causes that led to the settlement of this unin-
habited desert in the heart of the Rocky Moun-
tain region, a thousand miles either East or West
from civilization.
	Men may have education, thoughts, aspirations
for great literary work, yet when one settles down
to the actual writing of such a history as this one
it takes a vast amount of energy, vigor and exer-
cise of both brain and will power to fulfill the re-
quired purpose. Few people can appreciate such
an exclusive labor as it must necessarily be; the
whole soul of the author must be concentrated
upon the chain of events and circumstances to be
connected and put in form in the right place, at
the right time, and no mistake must be made;
one's brain is kept in a constant strain lest any
inaccuracy should creep in, and so absorbing is
such mental labor that it wears upon the vitality,
the nerves and the physical health more than the
hardest manual labor the man is capable of, could
possibly do. And yet those who know very little
of this kind of work attempt to criticise, and sit
in judgment on those who write the records of
the times, the histories that are to be handed
down to posterity.
	One volume of the History of Utah has been
finished, and is now before the public and the
press of the country, to be reviewed and judged
of on its merits. Some very favorable, and even
flattering notices have been received, and these

[Column 2]

are very encouraging to the author, who has ex-
pended so much time, energy and thought in pre-
paring the work for the publishers. It is good
and it is pleasant to have one's work appreciated,
it is like a soothing balm to the weary mind, but
one cannot consider the favor, or flattery of the
public in writing history, but the real matter to
be made use of; and whether it be agreeable, or
disagreeable it can't be left out; and the historian
generally speaking finds many things not to his
mind, but he cannot pick and choose in this, as
in fiction, he must use as best he can the occur-
rences that have actually taken place. The
people may have chosen to ignore, or forget cer-
tain unpleasant things but the historian is obliged
to recognize everything that pertains to the in-
terest of the country of which he writes. In judg-
ing of history there are many things to be con-
sidered, the author may have talent, even genius,
and here and there perhaps may be an oppor-
tunity to display it, but if some portions of his
work are dry and uninteresting the writer ought
not to be blamed if he has stated facts.
	Bishop Whitney has evidently aimed to make
the history, he has commenced a true and com-
plete record of events, as well as to give every-
thing in an original style, harmonizing with the
originality of the work he has undertaken, and
the people who must necessarily form the nucleus
of the work in hand, as much as the Puritans of
New England do the history of the North Eastern
states. Aside from this peculiarity of the subject
Bishop Whitney's style is original in itself; as is
noticable in his poetry, and in the books he has
previously written. It is smooth in the main, but
not so much so as to be tedious, but more like the
country in which he has been born and reared,
with lofty flights and heights, and deep ravines
full of profound mystery, and silence that is
grander than silvery speech; passages that
make one pause and reflect in depth of meaning,
and sometimes he leads you through labyrinths
of rough and tangled ways, and brings you out
where the clear water reflects the real landscape
of which you have taken but little note as you
wandered on, till you were brought face to face
with it in the living stream as it were.
	Of the history itself what can we say, that it is
a large book of over 700 pages, elegantly bound
printed on a superior quality of paper in good
sized type, correctly punctuated, diction excellent,
everything in the way of typographical work of
the best quality and workmanship, steel engrav-
ings of the pioneers and many of the prominent
men of the country well executed, also engrav-
ings of the three pioneer women who came with
the first company of pioneers to this desert moun-
tain region, not knowing whither they were to
find a resting place for their pilgrim feet, also an
engraving of the first lady school teacher in Utah.
With very much of the matter contained in
this volume we were already familiar and can tes-
tify to its accuracy in detail.
	Those who came here in the early days will
find many things brought to their remembrance
through the incidents related, and they will
thoroughly enjoy reviewing the past and having
their memories refreshed, and if perchance there
are dark and gloomy places described, they will
see how the Lord has brought his people safely
through it all, into the light again and that pros-
perity has dawned upon them after the days of
adversity.
	To the young people it will be a revelation al-
most as many of them know very little of the
settlement of the country, the conditions and cir-
cumstances through which their parents and
grandparents have passed, and what they en-
dured.
	To those who have heard much and really
known little of this part of the West, and of the
people who came and opened up these mountain
vales for a habitation, and a dwelling place, and

[Column 3]

have made the roads, built the bridges and done
the hard work, preparatory to securing ease and
comfort in the years that followed, they have now
the opportunity of examining this subject, making
themselves acquainted with facts through the
reading of this book which gives a most exhaus-
tive view and record of the whole matter at the
beginning, and will in the succeeding volumes,
give the various events that have since tran-
spired, the increase of population, political
changes, the advent of railroads and establish-
ment of the several religious denominations, and
Churches and other matters of interest, civil,
judicial and general.
	The second volume will give more concerning
women than the first has contained, it will treat
upon the enfranchisement of the women of Utah
the political conditions that followed, the es-
tablishment of the woman's paper, the various
organizations of women, charitable, literary and
for mutual improvement, in fact women will be
given a prominent place in the history. There
will be engravings of representative women in the
professions, in industries, in literary and chari-
table work. As to the literary merit of the history
it abounds in glowing passages, and we find
that wherever the author has had the scope, he
has shown his poetical talent in writing prose.
The reader cannot fail to be interested and notice
how impartially the writer has told his story.
None but a blindly prejudiced person could fail to
see, he had given full credit to all the people of
the Territory and made it a fair representation.
Men who do a great work like this are very rarely
appreciated while they are living, and therefore
should the history be even severely criticised, it
will only be what has happened to others.
	For our own part, knowing something of the
subject matter, we can but accord the most ar-
dent commendation to the author, that he has
been able to do so well in selecting his material
and fashioning it so beautifully.
	There are parts of the book that remind the
writer of that celebrated descriptive author
Washington Irving, and we fully anticipate the
second volume in which the woman subject is to
be dwelt upon will abound in beauty and excel-
lence of language such as will give the highest
tone to the exalted theme of woman; this second
volume will no doubt be looked for even more
anxiously than the first because of the interest the
first volume has awakened.
	This book brings the history to the civil war,
the vacating of Camp Floyd and relates in con-
nection other contemporary events; each chapter
has stirring episodes that cannot fail to produce
strong and lasting impressions, and the story is
undoubtedly more thrilling and pathetic than the
history of any other part of the western world.
The country itself having been previously
shrouded in mystery as it were, the fact of its be-
ing the haven of rest for weary pilgrims, and the
subsequent events are all telling to the lover of
wild and daring adventure.


A GRAND WOMAN SUFFRAGE RALLY.

	Some of the ladies outside Salt Lake seem
more enthusiastic on the subject of woman suf-
frage than are those who live at the Capital.
	On the 29th of July at American Fork the ladies
of the Association had a Grand Rally and a very
good time. People were invited from other
places and some from this City, Hon. C. W. Pen-
rose, President Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Lizzie
Penrose, and the writer went down on the morn-
ing train and on arriving found carriages in wait-
ing to drive to Utah Lake. The ladies wore the
yellow ribbon and quite a number of gentlemen
were adorned with sunflowers, (which grow all
over this Western country in great profusion,) the
ladies drove, and their whips were all tied with


yellow ribbon; the drive was delightful, and the
view at Utah Lake is charming, the sound of the
water there its dashing and murmuring reminds
one much more of the sea than does Salt Lake.
Returning from the Lake the party drove to the
meeting house where the audience were already
seated, and we saw more yellow badges and sun-
flowers, as well as many other beautiful flowers
with which the house was decorated.
	The stand was draped with the stars and stripes
and the flag of Wyoming with the one golden
star hung in a conspicuous place; the life size
portraits of Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony in
elegant frames hung over us, also small ones' of
Sarah M. Kimball the President of the W. S. A.
for Utah Territory and Hannah Lapish the local
President.
	The singing was excellent, they have a good
woman leader who is also a zealous suffragist.
The songs were well chosen from the Utah Wo-
man's Song Book, prayer was offered by the
chaplain Phebe Christensen. The President
heartily welcomed the audience and a young wo-
man read an essay on Woman, which contained
much sound philosohy. A young man William
Robinson made a stirring speech, the best speech
from one so young that we have ever had the
pleasure of listening to.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young spoke upon the
mothers of the land very feelingly, the difficulties
they labored under while held in bondage, the
taxes they pay, the requirements made of them
and the solemn responsibilities resting upon
them.
	The writer made a few remarks upon taxation
without representation, the condition of laws re-
garding women's property rights in New Eng
land in her girlhood, the modification of these
laws in many states by the suffrage agitators.
	Hon. C. W. Penrose occupied the remainder of
the time. He reasoned from a logical stand-
point, explained the difference between suffrage
and citizenship, spoke of the advantages that had
been accorded women in this Territory, and of
his own work in the Legislature at the time of
the passage of the bill to strike the word male
from the statutes of Utah, so that women could
have been eligible to office as well as to cast a
vote. Referred to the failure of its receiving the
signature of the Governor, which is a positive
necessity in this Territory. He also alluded to
the unjust way in which the women of Utah were
deprived of the ballot by Congress, without any
reason what ever, when the Constitution of the
country declares, such things cannot be done
"without due process of law." His speech
throughout was educational, he urged the ladies
to study the Declaration of Independence and the
Constitution of the United States, praised their
energy and diligence and encouraged them to
persevere until they obtained those rights that
had been wrongfully wrested from the women of
the Territory.
	After a few words from the President, singing
and benediction by the young lady chaplain the
meeting adjourned to Grant's Music Emporium,
where in the large hall handsomely decorated a
banquet was spread for the suffrage association
and invited guests. The dinner was thoroughly
enjoyed and also the music which was a feature
of the occasion. The remainder of the day until
train time was spent in chatting socially and in
singing and partaking of refreshments, and when
the visitors from this City left, the ladies and
gentlemen assembled there were in the midst of
a musical treat. The Rally will doubtless be a
good stimulus for the extension of the work in
this direction.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


It is always a sign of poverty of mind
where men are ever aiming to appear great;
for they who are really great never appear
to know it.—Cecil.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	The article we have published in three parts,
Prehistoric Man in America, contains more proof
conclusive of the Book of Mormon history, we are
in hopes that through reading it our sisters will
be induced to write on this subject, and bring up
points in evidence; it may be made a study and
result in good, if only to those who already be-
lieve but want further light on the subject. The
Story of the Book of Mormon by Elder George
Reynolds would be helpful in any such writing,
and we shall be glad to have some of this class of
articles. Who were the former inhabitants of
this land and from whence they came,is agitating
the lovers of research, and any light upon the
matter that can be given will be recognized by
honest seekers after truth. That the relics and
curiosities found in many parts indicate a high
state of civilization is now very generally ad-
mitted. We are well aware there are those
among the sisters who have the time to devote to
this subject, and we shall be very glad to hear
from them.


OBITUARY.

AMANDA WILLIAMS.

	MRS. AMANDA WILLIAMS, relict of Jesse
Williams of Rome, who died in Whitesboro
yesterday, was born March 10, 1802, in Rome, and
was the daughter of Elijah Wells and Jerusha
Brewster, his first wife. Her recorded American
genealogy runs back over two hundred and fifty
years and is associated with all the Wells' of this
country, many of them of marked prominence in
professional, political and military life. She was
married to Jesse Williams, February 28, 1822, in
Rome, and lived there nearly all their married
life upon the farm first settled by his father, and
where he died 1864. With her husband originated
the idea of associated dairying, so that he came
to be called the father of the American cheese
factory system. If he was the father, she was
equally the mother of the system, for to
her skill, gathered from twenty years ex-
perience in the management of their private
dairy, is to be accorded whatever of success at-
tended the early growth of the system in popular
favor. For several years rarely did a day's pro-
duct of the original factory escape her vigilant
care. Her whole soul was in her work and not
alone for selfish ends. She felt great pleasure in
imparting to others new in the work the full
measure of knowledge she had gathered from her
toil. She was a conscientious observer of the
cardinal tenets of the Christian faith, and ex-
emplified in her life the virtues it teaches. She
is survived by six children. Mrs. Dr. M. C. West
Miss J. C. and David Williams of Rome, D. C.
Williams of Fox Lake, Wis., W. B. and George
Wi liams of Whitesboro.—Utica Morning Herald.

	The lady whose death we republish from the
New York paper is the Aunt of Jesse W. Fox one
of the old residents of this Territory, and Sister
Williams has been connected with the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints many years,
faithful to its principles and true to her integrity.
She came to Utah some years ago on a visit, and
went to the St. George Temple where she re-
ceived the blessings to which she was entitled,
and officiated for some of her dead relatives
which was a great comfort and satisfaction to her.
Mrs. Williams was from the same branch of the
Wells family as the late Gen. D. H. Wells, al-
though not very nearly related.
			AUNT AMANDA.
Noble indeed as a woman could be,
True to her faith as the leaf to the tree;
Devoted to children, husband and God,
Humble and willing to bow 'neath the rod.


Firm to the truth, she endured to the end,
Firm as the rock, that no tempest can rend,
Filled was her life with kind words, and good
	deeds,
She walked in the path where righteousness
	leads.

A more noble life no poet e'er penned,
Loved by her kindred revered by her friends.
Blessed with God’s spirit, till her latest breath,
Serene in her life, and peaceful in death.

"Peace to thy ashes," thy mem'ry shall be
Honored through ages of futurity,
Rest from thy labors, receive thy reward,
"Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."
			RUTH M. FOX.
APRIL 25, 1892.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THIS interesting organization met at the Parlor
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT July 30th, 1892. M.
A. Freeze opened the meeting with prayer.
	The Secretary then read the minutes which
were accepted as read.
	Roll called. Correspendence read and several
business matters discussed, among other things
the advisablity of a social picnic and excursion
for the club and their friends, which met the
good pleasure of all present and it was decided
to spend the afternoon of Wednesday, August 10,
at Liberty Park, a programme was arranged for
the occasion.
	Business being completed the programme was
next in order, M. A. Freeze descoursed in a most
interesting manner of her trip to Southern Utah,
New Mexico, and Colorado, giving a very realistic
description of the scenery, the prehistoric relics
and the romantic cliff houses. M. E. Shipp read
an interesting historical paper on "Woman
Physicians" giving a vivid account of the early.
struggles and hardships of the pioneers in this
cause and their status at the present writing. L.
S. Dickinson read an original poem entitled
"Dreams of Childhood."
	G. Woodmansee sang most expressively the
sweet and touching song, "O fair dove, O fond
dove."
	President E. B. Wells gave an interesting
sketch of her trip to San Francisco some account
of which has been published heretofore. C. C.
R. Wells read a timely article entitled, "Why so
many men do not marry." L. G. Richards read
a Biograpical sketch of Sarah G. Richards, a 
glowing tribute to her husband's mother.
	G. L. Brown read from the North American
Review an instructive article on the "Progress of
American Nationalism" by Edward Bellamy.
	Refreshments were  served and partaken of
while discussing the propriety of the club having
an appropriate badge and motto. Adjourned for
one month. Benediction G. Woodmansee.
			E. R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


R. S. REPORT.

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall in this city June 17,
1892, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting opened with the hymn "O happy
souls who pray," prayer was offered by
Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, continued with
singing "O, say what is truth;" minutes of
previous Conference read and approved.
Mrs. Home made the opening address in
which she urged the sisters to cultivate
spiritual gifts, and perform the duties that
pertain to their spiritual welfare as well as
those of a temporal nature, to be saints in-
deed as well as to profess the name of Saint,
and seek to learn and to walk in the ways


[Column 1]

of the Lord; rejoiced that we had no diffi-
culties to settle in our Relief Society,
realized the union that existed and that we
enjoyed the spirit of the Lord in our meet-
ings. Counselor Elmina S. Taylor spoke
of having just recently attended a very in-
teresting Conference at Brigham City; felt
that every branch of the Relief Society in
this Stake should have a representative
present that we may know how the work is
progressing in our surrounding settlements;
"we have the best organization on the
earth, and it takes in the oldest and the
youngest and we know it is the work of the
Lord, let us be careful that we don't fall by
the way, but let us watch ourselves that we
may not be led by the snares that Satan is
laying for the people of God."
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
the mothers, their influence with children,
thought example better than precept, hoped
we might live in such a manner that the
calamities that are coming upon the earth
causing destruction might be averted from
us through our humility and faithfulness
before the Lord. The following Presidents
made verbal reports of their respective
branches of the Relief Society, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Pixton, Taylorsville, Mrs. Z. V.
Eardley, also made some interesting re-
marks. Mrs. E. Weiler reported 3rd Ward
S. L. City, Mrs. Ann Holt, South Jordan,
Mrs. C. Smith, Draper, Mrs. E. J. Bodell,
Herriman. Each one of the sisters spoke
encouragingly of the work in the ward
where she presided and felt to persevere in
the duties pertaining to the Society.
	President Horne gave good and wise
connsel in regard to storing grain and also
the care to be taken of it, and referred to
the times of famine that were sure to come
in fulfillment of the predictions of the
prophets, quoted from the Scriptures "who
will not take up the sword against his
neighbor must needs flee to Zion for safety,"
also alluded to the saying of President
Heber C. Kimball that, "we would see the
time when wheat would be worth its weight
in gold."
	Conference adjourned to 2 p. m., singing
"The time is far spent." Benediction by
Mrs. Diana Reid.

	Afternoon session: Opened with singing
"Come let us anew &c," prayer by Mrs. E. 
Webb, singing "For the strength of the
hllls we bless thee;" Mrs. E. Howard was
the first speaker, gave an interesting ac-
count of her visit to San Juan Stake, spoke
of the long distances between the settle-
ments, the beauties of the scenery and the
hospitality of the people; also the interest
manifested by the women in all the great
questions of the day.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark of Farmington oc-
cupied a short time, spoke of the prophecies
being fulfilled in our day; of the necessity
of sacrifice in our daily lives, the overcom-
ing of weaknesses and guarding against
temptations; the need of cultivating our
minds by reading and study as well as our
hearts by the spirit of the Lord; desired to
gain intelligence which is the glory of God.
	President Zina D. H. Young: had re-
cently visited Logan Temple and enjoyed a
season of refreshing; made some remarks
upon the work for the dead in the Lord's
House; the joy and satisfaction it gave in
performing it, spoke of our dear beloved
Sister Eliza with whom she stood side by
side so long in many places, was reminded
of her particularly at the Conference in
Brigham City, related some early reminis-

[Column 2]

cences of the Church and of the Prophet
Joseph and his teachings to the Saints.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells thought we scarcely
realized the magnitude of the work of the
Relief Society organization, and that each
individual member had duties to perform
therewith; the increase of love through our
associating together promotes charity for
one another and all the world, we think
more of one another's welfare and appreciate
each other better than we could have done
outside of being united in this capacity. Re-
lated some items of her visit to the Pacific
Coast recently and of having attended the
Bible class of Mrs. Sarah E. Cooper, the
great speaker and kindergarten organizer,
the interpretation she gave to Nebuched-
nezzar's dream interpreted by Daniel.
Spoke upon the subject of education and
what would be expected of our children in
the future.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, said "those who do
the most thinking are the best educated; in
the School of the Prophets in Nauvoo, when
Joseph Smith was giving instruction to the
brethren, he told them to make everything
they undertook a subject of prayer. If we
had the faith we ought to have this house
would be filled, we are not required to do
anything impossible; it is true we have
many duties to perform, but let us do those
that are most important, and meet our re-
sponsibilities in a proper manner."
	Mrs. Ada Brim, Cassia Stake; spoke of
the enjoyment she had experienced since
coming to the Young Men's Conference in
meeting with the sisters and hearing the
good instructions, and interesting subjects
that had been treated upon, hoped to take
home with her much that would be bene-
ficial to herself and others in that locality.
	Mrs. Agnes Cutler, President West Jordan
ward spoke of the Hall the Society had
built and of its having been dedicated and
the good influence in their meetings, said
"let us cheer and comfort our sisters who
are passing through severe ordeals and some
of whom are exiles at the present time, by
and bye the dark clouds will roll by.
	President Horne commended the Presi-
dents from the country who had traveled
fifteen or twenty miles to come to the Con-
ference and yet many Presidents who re-
sided in the City were not at the meeting or
came in late; thought we should be awake
to the importance of the work we had en-
gaged in and realize the many duties and
responsibilities of the times in which we
live, and never lose sight of the signs of the
times; and the indications are that we shall
need to secure our wheat and add to it, and
be prepared for any emergency that may
arise, that our children may not want for
bread; thought we should all take reproof
in a kind manner, look at the teachings and
reproofs given by our Savior, and may it
always have a good effect, let us accept it in
the spirit of kindness and profit thereby.
	Conference adjourned for three months to
be held at the same place. Singing, "O, ye
mountains high &c." Benediction by Mrs.
Elizabeth Stevenson.


30
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DISCOVERY DAY.

		TO BE A NATIONAL HOLIDAY.

To His Excellency the Governor of Utah:
	“ALLOW me, as chairman of the executive
commitee of the Columbian Public School
celebration of October 21st, to do myself the


honor to call your attention to the progress
which the movement for this celebration is
making in the country. The history of the
movement is briefly contained in the en-
closed printed statement. May I ask you
to read it?
	"The movement up to this time has made
large progress. Thousands of newspapers
in all parts of the country are commending
the public school celebration editorially in
their localities. Even at this early date 
50,000 schools have expressed their deter-
mination, through their superintendents, to 
celebrate the day. The celebration enjoys the
approval of both President Harrison and ex-
President Cleveland, and the support of the
most distinguished members of Congress.
	"I desire, with deep respect, to submit to
your Excellency the request made in the
name of the whole body of State superin-
tendents of education, that you will give by
special proclamation an official recognition
to Columbus Day in the Territory of Utah.
It is, of course, the governor’s proclamation
which weighs most with the people. If it
is impossible for the governor to make the
day a legal holiday without legislative 
action, the purposes of the day will be
served equally as well by a proclamation in 
which your Excellency simply recommends
to the people an appropriate observance of
the day in their schools and other places of
assembly, without calling for any suspen-
sion of business.
	“Proclamations have already been issued 
by the governors of New York, Minnesota,
Illinois and Florida. Some of these have
been without without legislative action. I
enclose a copy of the proclamation by the 
governor of Minnesota.
	This request from the executive committee
appointed by the superintendents of educa-
tion is made only with the concurrence of the
State superintendent of education in Utah.
	"In the trust that this suggestion may 
commend itself to your judgment and to 
your favor, I have the honor to be, most
respactfully,your obedient servant,"
			FRANCIS BELLAMY,
	Chairman of the Executive Committee.


COL. AND MRS. PARKER.

	  	THE TABERNACLE LECTURE.

	Sunday evening August 7th Colonel
Francis Stuart Parker delivered an interest-
ing and instructive lecture upon “The
Child,” at the Tabernacle in this City,
there were 7000 people present, an
audience all attention and anxious to hear
this distinguished gentleman and lady, for
it was confidently expected that Mrs. Parker
would speak upon the subject of “Dress
Reform,” after her husband had closed.
It was a great disappointment to all that
she did not; the promise however that she
would address the people of this City on
that subject in the near future was made,
and we shall look forward to it with pleas-
ure. Mrs. Parker is a member of the Com-
mittee on Dress Reform appointed by the
National Council of Women, and her ideas
upon the subject will certainly be sugges-
tive and valuable.
	President Angus M. Cannon presided at
the meeting. The choir sang, “Light and
Truth the World is Waking.” Dr. Karl G.
Maeser offered the opening prayer, after
which the choir sang, “God of Israel the
Lord is our Redeemer.”
	Col. Parker was introduced by President


Angus M. Cannon. He prefaced his re-
marks by saying: “The child was the sun-
shine of the world.” His idea of the child
its tendencies, its nature and what its train-
ing should be, happily accords with the
views entertained by most of the people call-
ed Latter-day saints. The theory is all
right the difficulty lies in carrying it out
practically. We think as Col. Parker does
that when children are trained in that way
the world will have entered upon a higher
plane, and the Millenunim will come. But
first of all we argue that children must be
born right; the conditions under which
children are born the environments of the
mother, the maternal influences are the start-
ing point.
	If the people of this generation can be
made to see the necessity of training, it may
have a wholesome effect upon those to be
born in the future, and the few who accept
this higher ideal may leaven the whole in
due process of time. The greatest factor in
the world however is love, the child longs
for it, its nature craves it; not indulgence,
but real true love.
	The really great men of the country were
almost without exception those who came
from the farm or the workshop. Here in
Utah, or at the Institute in Provo he had
 met five hundred of the sharpest thinkers,
most earnest and intelligent teachers and
students that he had ever seen in the United
States, and he had held a great many insti-
tutes in different places. He felt that the
keynote to this was the pioneer life the
struggles for existence, the real practical
work and the love of industry transmitted
to this generation.
	The speaker thought the universe the
expression of God’s thought, and that when
a child turned to nature he asked God for
knowledge of his laws that he might obey
them. He alluded to these valleys set like
emeralds in the mountains, and that no one
could study them without bowing in sincere
admiration to the God who sculptured them
from nature. He referred to the great ad-
vancements made in science in the last cen-
tury or in fact during the last fifty years,
the discoveries that had been practically
worked out and adapted to the use of the
world at large.
	The whole lecture was beautifully illus-
trated with graphic word pictures that
brought the truths elucidated clearly be-
fore the mind’s eye, and will doubtless
make a lasting impression on those who had
the privilege of listening to his earnest elo-
quence. After Col. Parker’s lecture, the
choir sang “Zion Prospers all is Well,”
and Mrs. Parker came forward and stated
that the lateness of the hour prevented her
speaking as per announcement. She said,
“We women have been accused of putting
our brains into our clothes, but now we are
also putting our religion into our clothes.”
	The choir sang: “By Babylon’s Wave,”
and the meeting closed with benediction by
Elder B. H. Roberts.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

	Although by birth and education a Lon-
doner, much of Amelia B. Edward’s early
life was spent in Suffolk, and she ever re-
tained the fondest recollection of summer
holidays spent amid meadows and cornfields.
The quiet, pastoral scenery of that part of
England had peculiar fascinations for her,
long after she had become familiar with the
most picturesque and beautiful parts of
Europe.

[Column 2]
	“It was at Westerfield, near Ipswich, my
own home, that we first met the London
cousin, afterwards to become so famous,
then a girl just iu her teens, and overflow-
ing with spirits. She was already an
author! Few writers indeed can boast of a
literary career beginning in the nursery, but
such was the case with the author of
‘Pharaohs, Fellahs and Explorers.’ When
only nine years old she gained the prize of-
fered for a temperance story in a popular
periodical, to the immense gratification of
her parents, whose only child and idol she
was. In these early days, however, it
seemed as if she was destined rather to win
fame as a musician than an author. Her
girlhood may be said to have been devoted
to the study of music, and at twenty-one she
was an accomplished mistress of harmony,
the pianoforte and the organ. She had also
developed another, and perhaps even more
marked, gift, namely, the great talent for
drawing, which, however, was never per-
sistently cultivated, as had been the case
with music. Hand in hand with pianoforte
practice, often extending over eight hours a
day, Miss Edwards carried on other studies,
more especially that of her own language
and literature. Of both she was a patient
and an ardent student, and the results were
the critical acumen and purity of style which
characterised the author later on. Some
charming little musical stories belong to
this period, and soon appeared her first
novels, ‘My Brother’s Wife,’ and ‘The
Ladder of Life, ’ followed by her great suc-
cess in fiction, ‘Barbara’s History.’ Hence-
forth her life was devoted to literature, her
works being too well known to need enumer-
ation here.
	“Intervals of travel relieved the hard
work of these days, and not the least happy
holiday spent with her was a little pilgrim-
age we made to my native Suffolk. Ever
a passionate lover of nature, the sight of
familiar scenes awakened keenest pleasure.
‘I feel once more a child,’ she would say,
as we strolled amid the meadows and green
lanes in the neighborhood of Needham
Market. A brilliant talker, a genial com-
panion, always in exuberant spirits—these
holidays spent with my cousin were days to
remember. Nothing in the shape of natur-
al beauty escaped her, the lark caroling
above the young wheat, a hedge garlanded
with wild rose and honeysuckle kindled
intense delight. The loveliest scenes of
Italy or Greece could not fascinate her more.
Chance decided Miss Edwards’ career as an
Egyptologist. A wet holiday trip in France
led her, with a friend, to seek sunshine on
the Nile. The result of this improvised
journey was a charming book—the standard
handbook of travelers in Egypt—years of
devotion to Egyptology, and a position
unique in the history of eminent women.”
	The foundation of the Egyptian Ex-
ploration Fund in 1883 was largely due to
her efforts, and she had long been its Hon.
Secretary, in which capacity she carried on
a wide correspondence at home and abroad.
She oontributed articles on Egyptology to
the Encyclopœdia Britannica, and wrote an
account of recent archaeological discoveries
in Egypt for the American edition. Her
last work “Pharaohs, Fellah’s, and Ex-
plorers” appeared towards the end of last
year. Miss Edwards was a contributing
member of various Oriental Congresses, and
a member of the Biblical Archæological
Society and of the Society for the Promotion
of Hellenic Studies. In America, at the
centenary celebration of Columbia College,

[Column 3]
the degree of L. H. D. was confered on her,
Professor Tyndal and the Provost of Queen’s
College, Oxford, being the only other British
subjects similarly honored. She also held
the hon. degree of L. L. D. from Smith’s
College, the first time such degree had been
conferred on a woman in America.
			MISS M. BETHAM EDWARDS,
	In Bristol Western Daily Press.


PREHISTORIC MAN IN AMERICA.

			[Concluded.]
	J. W. Powell, in the Forum, says: “No
fragment of evidence remains to support
the figment of theory that there was an
ancient race of Mound Builders superior in
culture to the North American Indians.”
He also takes the view of Morgan, that the
early writers extoled the skill of the
sculptors of the mound building period.
They found carvings of birds and mammals
supposed to represent foreign species with
great accuracy; but these very objects which
they praised so highly have been re-ex-
amined and found so crude that, though a
bird may well be identified as such, it can
rarely be recognized as any specific bird of
this or any other country.
	There are many things found in some of
the mounds that do not belong to the origi-
nal builders. When white men first came
to this country European goods were traded
to the Indians, and these in time were buried
in the mounds made for this purpose; so to-
day many beautiful things are found that
are wrongfully termed the work of a pre-
historic race. Mr. Powell thinks that the
stone dwellings of which but ruins only
remain were built not longer ago than three
hundred years. He says there is no neces-
sity to search for lost and wonderful peoples
to account for any known facts. He further
states “that both the mound culture and the
pueblo culture have had a lowly beginning,
a slow, gradual development, and a modern
culmination. Both were at the height of
their glory when the oontinent was dis-
covered by Europeans, and nowhere do we
find evidence of peoples other than the
North American Indians and their ances-
tors.”
	Mr. Powell thinks that in the archæ-
ologic remains found in the United States
there is no evidence that man had learned
to use bronze or iron. There is no culture
found higher than that of the “stone age.”
He concludes his article by stating that the
graphic art on bark, bone, shell, or stone
never reached a higher stage than simple
picture making.
	Professor Putnam, of Harvard, and cura-
tor of the Peabody Institute, does not agree
with this theory. He has given up his life
to this study and is one of the best living
authorities upon this subject. He thinks
there was a prehistoric race who were not
the American Indians.
	In studying the remains in Central
America we find a race who had gotten
beyond mere household architecture, and
were rising to the sphere of art. That
statues such as are fonnd were produced by
a race not differing in descent or essential
habits from the northern Iroquois or other
Indian tribes seems simply incredible.
Higginson says in his history of the United
States: “In Central America we find the
remains of a race which had begun to busy
itself with the very highest department of
art, the delineation of the human figure;
and which had attained to grace and vigor,


if not to beauty.  The stately stone heads
of Yucatan, the arch and spirited features
 depicted on the Maya incense burners, the 
fine face carved in sandstone which is now 
in New York, all indicate a sphere of 
development utterly beyond that of those
northern Indians whose utmost achievement
consists in some graceful vase like that
found in Burlington, Vt."
	When we speak of the discovery of
America we always mean the arrival of
Europeans, forgetting that there was pro-
bably a time when Europe itself was dis-
covered by Asiatics, and that for those
Asiatics it was almost as easy to discover
America.  All that is necessary, even at
this day, to bring a Japanese junk to the
Pacific coast of North America is that it
should be blown out to sea and there lose
its rudder; the first mishap has often occnr-
ed, the second casualty has almost always
followed, and the Japan stream has done the
rest.
	Charles W. Brooks, of San Francisco,
has a record of no less than a hundred such
instances, and there is no reason why
similar events should not have been oc-
curring for centuries-  Behring strait is
but little wider than the English channel,
and it is as easy to make the passage from
Asia to America as from France to England:
and indeed easier for half the year, when
Behring strait is frozen.  Besides all this,
both geology and botany indicate that the
separation between the two continents did
not always exist.  Dr. Asa Gray, our high-
est botanical authority, long ago pointed
out the extraordinary identity between the
Japanese flora and that of northern United
States, as indicating a period when the two
continents were one.   It is an argument
difficult to resist, for surely flowers do not
cross the ocean in junks, or traverse the
frozen straits upon the ice.  The colonization
of America from Asia was thus practicable
at any rate, and that far more easily than
any approach from the European side.  The
simple races on each side of Behring strait,
which now communicate with each other
freely, must have done the same from very
early times.
	The fact may yet be established that the
aboriginal of America was contemporary
with the mammoth; but it is now only pro-
bable.  It is still necessary to close the
subject of prehistoric man in America with
an interrogation point.—Mary Morrison.
In Haerth and Hall.
	Grand Rapids, Mich.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WORLD'S FAIR NOTES.

	The Government of Mexico will exhibit
at the World's Fair a large and valuable
collection of Aztec relics.

	Butterflies to the number of 150,000 will
be shown in the Pennsylvania exhibit at
the World's Fair.  The collection is said to
be the most complete and finest in the
world.

	A Sioux squaw, living near San Diego,
California, will exhibit in the Woman's
building at the World's Fair a dress of deer
skins, richly embroidered with sixteen
pounds of beads.  She worked for two years
in making the garment.  From the San
Diego Mission will be exhibited a valuable 
collection of fine needle work by Indian
girls.


The women of New York State will fur-
nish and decorate the library room in the
Woman's building at the World's Fair.
Plans are perfected to make the furnish-
ings very elaborate and tasteful.  The room
will contain as complete a collection as is
possible to gather of works written by
women.
	Mrs. Paul and Mrs. Wise, Lady Man-
agers for Virginia, [together with their
auxiliary, board, have undertaken to raise
$16,000 for the Virginia building at the
World's Fair, which is to be a full-sized
reproduction of Washington's home at
Mount Vernon.  To raise the money the
women of Virginia are selling certificates of
membership in the Mount Vernon Associa-
tions at $1 each.  They are also asking the
county and city supervisors, councils, etc.,
for levies of one cent per capita, and are
giving entertainments of various kinds.


"MRS. EDNA CHENEY, of Boston, was
the intimate friend of Louisa Alcott, who
was, without doubt, the best juvenile writer
America has ever produced. Miss Alcott
bequeathed to Mrs. Cheney upon her death
many of her original manuscripts. Mrs.
Cheney is much beloved in Boston, where
she lives. Her essays frequently appear in
the New England Magazine, Current Litera-
ture and the Century.”


OBITUARY.

	Sister Orelia Christine Hanson was born June
22nd, 1849, in Elling, Swenborg, Denmark.  She
died at Colonia, Diaz, Chihuahua, Mexico.
	Sister Hansen emigrated to Utah about nine
years ago, residing for a time in Newton, Cache
County, afterwards removing to Manti, where she
labored in the Temple for nearly two years.  She
was also a teacher in the South Ward Relief
Society, performing all her duties faithfully and
well.
	She was for many years a great sufferer from
lung disease, but she lived and died a faithful
Latter-day Saint, enduring all her sufferings with
patience and fortitude.
						ELIZABETH CASTO,
		President, Manti South Ward Relief Society.
						REBECCA WAREHAM,
			President North Ward Relief Society.


TRIBUTE TO A FAITHFUL SAINT.

	Sister Lydia Long died on the 25th of June 1892,
quite suddenly, she had not been feeling very
well for some time, but expressed herself as be-
ing much better on the day she departed, expir-
ing while her son and his wife, had gone out to
do a few errands. She was laid away the next
day as the weather was warm and the house much
exposed to the sun.
	The officers and some of the teachers of the
13th Ward attended the funeral; which was held
in the 22nd Ward where she of late had been liv-
ing with her youngest son.  Her age was sixty-
nine years and five months.  Born on the 13th of
January 1823 in England did not learn what part
of the country.  Bishop Empey and Counselors
were there, also Brother A. M. Musser, all speak-
ing of her with much respect, testifying of her
patient and humble spirit in all the walks of life.
She was also a good and faithful teacher in the 
13th Ward Relief Society.
	Though the rooms were small they were well


filled by relatives and friends.  The Bishop re-
gretted that she was not taken to the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms.  Poor Lydia she looked happy
in death surrounded with lovely flowers.
								E. H. G.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Mlillinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed,
Feathers curled, etc.  Stamping done to order. But.
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

[Logo of the Rio Grande Western Railway]
Standard Gauge
Railway!
THOUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A.E.WELBY, J.H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders [---]
the country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

