VOL. 21. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST I, 1892.  No. 3.


CONTENTS.
	Wonderful—Mary E. T. Griffeth. In Rural
England—A Story. Notes and News. R.S.
Report. Ladies Semi-Monthly Meetings. Ex-
tract From Letter—Helena Madsen. Food For
Thought—Zion's Convert. Prehistoric Man in
America. Information Wanted.
	EDITORIAL:—Pioneer Day. An Old-Fashioned
Tea Party. An Interesting Journey—Elizabeth
Howard. A Lovely Woman Passed Away—
Minna V. Lewis. In Memoriam—Hattie A.
Woolley.
	POETRY:—The Ruling Passion—Warner Snoad.
The Pioneers—Ellen Jakeman. The Old Piano—
L. M. Hewlings.


THE RULING PASSION.
				———
SOME sing the praises of Love's young dream,
When things which are and the things which
	seem,
Glide as one down youth's golden stream,
	And the song birds wake us early;
When one's heart is fresh with the morning  dew,
When hopes are many and cares are few,
When Life is flushed with a rosy hue,
	And one's hair is crisp and curly.

Some say 'tis sweetest when love comes late,
When the stings of grief and the thorns of fate,
The weary battle with grief and hate,
	Make Life's great good the stronger,
The Iudian Summer in regal dyes
Close to the heart of the sunset skies,
The last glad smiles of the year we prize,
	And wish each moment longer.

But ah! there only remains the truth,
That Love is Love—be it age or youth;
That Love is Love and in every sooth
	Of every soul he's master.
For Love is Love come he soon or late,
And Love alone is the Lord of fate,
Deride him—chide him—the god is great
	And he heeds nor Priest nor Pastor.
						WARNER SNOAD.
	The Woman's Tribune.


[Column 1]
			THE PIONEERS.
A TRACKLESS wilderness, a dreary waste
	Of dead gray valleys, and dark arid peaks;
A voiceless solitude, whose inland sea
	Moves to no tides, but level lying, speaks
Decay accomplished; passionless despair;
Sightless, emotionless, deep silence everywhere. 

Deep silence; save for howl of famished wolf,
	That came, red-eyed to slake his burning thirst,
Where but a thread of water silent slipt
	Between high banks that bent like things ac-
curst
Doomed to look ever; though it never sips,
Dying of thirst, deep dust upon the lips.

No bright bird's wing stirs all the pulseless air;
	No cloud of promise dots the brazen sky;
No flowers lift their faces from the earth;
	The sunbeams fall upon the ground to die.
All is as void, and of as little worth,
As when God's voice from chaos called the earth.

But hark! A human sound the silence breaks,
	Down through a mountain pass they fainting 
came

[Column 2]
A second Israel to a "promised land;"
	And their great Moses-Brigham Young his
name-
Paused in this desert; with uplifted hand
Invoked God's blessing on the faithful band.

They came-from Nauvoo's battered walls they
		came,
	Out-cast, despoiled, their friend and prophet
		slain,
Paused in this desert-but God's answer came
	To that petition in bright showers of rain,
The promised fruitage of another year,
	Gleamed like a rainbow in each crystal tear.

Truth, planted freedom's ensign on the peaks;
	Faith, struck the plow deep in the desert's dust
Love, nerved the arm to labor and be strong.
	God's promises, kept bright their holy trust;
Peace in their souls made patience sweet and
	strong,
Good will to man, moved all their hearts to song.

Because for His sake, they had borne reproach,
	Nature's rich bosom thrilling over flowed;
Milk, honey, wine, replaced the desert's waste,
They reaped abundance where they little sowed.
Birds sang in rapture; where the gaunt wolf
	stood-
Was a fair city and a pleasant wood.

The rock-ribbed mountains yielded up their
		stores
	Of salt and silver, copper, gold and coal,
And craftsmen came from every land and clime;
	Fair wisdom purely filled her golden bowl;
Bright water gushed from earth in living rills,
Their cattle sleek, fed on a thousand hills.

Some of those pioneers with us remain
	Made strong by truth-for truth and life are
one. 
They see fair Temples lift their sacred walls,
	The pure unselfish work of love begun.
And earth has everything to give and lend,
To those who made the God of Hosts their
		friend.

Like her who travailed in the wilderness,
	Great were the issues born of toil and pain;
As those sad Moors, who fair Grenada left
	They hold the keys to their beloved Spain.
And back again, led by the hand of God
Their children's feet shall press Missouri's sod.
					ELLEN JAKEMAN.


[Column 1]
		﻿WONDERLAND.
	Having business at Soda we decided to
make a pleasnre trip out of it; I have heard
of the wonders of Soda Springs for years
and thought I knew all about them, but one
must see to fully comprehend how truly
wonderful they are.
	Leaving Cache Valley behind we climbed
the hills to Mink Creek; Mink Creek is a
succession of farms in every habitable spot
along the banks of the creek, it is a beauti-
ful country to one that is fond of the pictur-
esque, for at every bend of the road we
come unexpectedly—(for the last seemed to 
be all alone amid the hills), upon another
home-stead past which sparkles, ripples and
roars the beautiful, clear, cold stream. Be-
fore turning to go up Strawberry creek, a

[Column 2]
small stream coming from a canyon of that
name, we came upon quite a cluster of 
houses, two stores and a rock meeting house
near completion.
	Passing another succession of farms we 
climb the divide and come upon the top of
a mountain, (the natives call it a hill) over
looking Gentile Valley; it is a splendid 
view, homes in the nooks and on the hill
sides, with the wide sluggish river winding
its way through and passing out between
the mountains.
	The north end of Gentile Valley is a
plateau or table land as yet uninhabited; it
was here we saw a great curosity, known as
the Ice Cave. To all appearances the
country is level, but turning some distance
from the main road, to the right, we came
upon a large basin, with walls of black
volcanic rock, we descended this, cross to
an opening on the east side, then descended
still farther and find ourselves in a huge
tunnel with arched roof and a smooth floor
covered with ice; as other tourists had
broken off some of the ice we took some out
into the daylight and found it to be pure
genuine ice, we went on until it seemed as
though we could see the end, but a young
man traveling with us, a resident of Gentile
Valley, told us there was an opening
through which the daring could pass, that
came out into a small ravine.
	After coming out of the cave we drove to
the opening, distant about half a mile,
found that opposite this opening is another
going into the hill. We have since been
told that it opens into a succession of caves
the end of which has not been explored yet.
Our theory, but it may not be correct, is 
that the snow drifts into the basin and melt-
ing runs into the cave, and the depth of the
cave and cold air that passes through keeps
it in that condition, as the walls appear to
be perfectly dry, we forgot to enquire
whether there was ice in the further cave or
not. Farther on we came to a fissure from
two to six feet wide extending quite a dis-
tance; either, our timidity or eye sight pre-
vented us from seeing the bottom, we saw
some bones on a ledge some distance down.
	After crossing the river we go in an
easterly direction, passing Soda Point, 
Soda Point is the point or end of a mountain
whose top, I should judge, is many miles
above the ocean. It descends almost per-
pendicular to the river, it is an immense
pile of rock, but in every crevice is a pine
tree. It is grand in appearance. The op-
posite side is perpendicular and also consists
of rock, in fact the country for miles is a 
bed of black porous looking rock.
	The railroad track makes a curve here
after passing through Soda turning north,
it must be a bleak windy locality for there
is a long stretch of snow sheds and fences
to break the drifts. After passing the point
the soil is very barren there being but little
vegetation.
	We had had a description of the steam
boat spring yet it was a surprise, instead of
issuing from a cliff, as we supposed, it
hisses and puffs forth from a flat red rock on
the brink of the river whose banks here are
low. 
	Soda and vicinity is a very desolate look-


ing place, the soil consisting of a reddish,
yellow clay. There are some fine buildings,
mostly hotels, but there seems to be no
thrift or order, perhaps being a railway
station gave it that appearance. In the
centre is a large mound on the top of which
is a warm sulphur spring and a few rods
from its base is a soda spring.
	Five miles north of Soda is a rich grazing
country, literally covered with springs. In
walking over a meadow we saw springs of
almost every color, red, black, green, yellow
etc., within a few feet of each other; these
springs boil up in the grass each in a
separate basin, but they do not over-flow;
in the same meadow springs forth blubber-
ing, sparkling soda water and beautiful
fresh water which unite forming Soda Creek
a beautiful clear stream.
	I know of no word that could describe
my feelings as I walked over the spongy
ground and viewed the wonders, except
awe; a reverence and a fear for the mighty
power that could hold in check so many
different elements.
			MARY E. T. GRIFFETH.
FAIRVIEW, IDAHO, July, 25th.


18			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XVIII.
	WHILE Clair and Maitland were away
during the hunting season Jane and Anna
were busy plying the needle, Jane with
her own wardrobe and Anna with fine em-
broidery and lace; her tastes were refined in
every particular and those were the days of
fine fancy needle-work. The French ladies
or governesses, for they were really ladies in
education and cultivation had taught her
the art of the needle to perfection.
	Every evening Dr. Bland came to sit
awhile when he was not too busy, and he
was most welcome for the old place was
lonely without Clair. The Doctor’s house
was being remodeled and Miss Conway had
to be consulted in the matter, and this was
a common ground of conversation. The
season was delightful, and the young ladies
took great pleasure in walking and driving
through the beautiful fields; the foliage
made charming pictures of which they
never tired, and whether in early morning or
sunset time, the trees and shrubbery wore
every shade of artistic coloring, and often
the girls remarked to each other as they
gazed and admired, “Will we ever be as
quietly happy again as we are now in this
beautiful Autumn weather?” and indeed so
many scenes and changes had come and gone
in quick succession, that this season of rest
was like a forboding. It filled them with
presentiments lest evil was lurking near.
Neither of them knew exactly what would
be done with the old home-ruin in fact it
had never really been a home in Sir Ed-
ward’s time, it was sort of a refuge, Jane
had made it more homelike than before, and
it is little wonder if these young women, did
wonder what the future held in store.
	Time went on slowly but the grey No-
vember soon set in and the gloom deepened
outside, and the raw and chill winds tossed
the dry leaves hither and thither, and finally
the rainy and wet season set in and there
were no more walks or rides, and the girls
thought Clair and Maitland would soon
come now for the hunting must be over;
but when Dr. Bland declared it was famous
hunting weather, Anna felt inclined to re-
bel at being left so long without an escort
or some one to help pass the time away: the

[Column 2]
Dr. inquired what she would do without
her cousin, at which she forgot herself
momentarily and rated him soundly for
mentioning snch a thing. “And why not?”
said he, “we are soon to be married, and
you must accept the situation however
lonely you may feel, I am glad however
that you have so much spirit, to protest, it
really makes me think you have some of
your father’s characteristics after all, and it
will be the better for you to have a will of
your own, it is quite becoming in a woman
to know her own mind, and I am not so
anxious as to your future seeing that you
can take your own part.
	“Miss Conway was a little disconcerted
she felt it was but an ebullition of emotional
feeling and not at all in keeping with her
cousin’s true character, she knew that An-
na needed a discreet and prudent guide and
Clair with Italian blood in his veins was
not the person to look to; but she comforted
herself with the thought that for the present
she would be near to give advice; she dis-
trusted Lady Walton and had less confidence
in her husband, she had an intuitive feeling
of his insincerity when he came to talk with
her at the Castle, she knew from her uncle
the deception he had practiced in that to
him bitter past, that blighted his whole life,
as it were, and she was glad to remember
she had been downright plain
with him about Anna and Maitland; he
could not be mistaken in her candor, what-
ever might come She pitied Lady Walton’s
weakness and really woudered that Mait-
land possessed as much honor and manli-
ness as he had shown, considering his
parents; she felt he was at least constant
and that was someth1ng.
	After Doctor Bland left the house Jane
had a long talk with her cousin speaking
very plainly to her of her future and assur-
ing her that she would watch over her,
even though she was not in the same house-
hold. Anna spoke of some one to preside
but her cousin asked her not to think of it
at present, for said she “the unexpected
might happen as when I came:” and Anna
added “Or as when Clair came who would
have suspected such a change as that in the
order of events.”
	It was good for Clair Hilliard with his
inexperience to be thrown into the society
of men of the world, like those he met at
the Greyson’s for he would be expected to
take part in the affairs of the County even
if he would not accept a nomination for
office. Men who have an understanding of
general matters can always be useful in the
community where they reside, and help in
the common interests of the people. Clair
had no conception of such things but he
would be called upon to do his share in any
event which might transpire locally, and
therefore all he could learn by personal
contact with wide-awake men would be
beneficial. Maitland needed this too almost
as mnch, he had been carefully trained at
home, but it was in “polite society” as an
escort for his mother to balls and parties,
more than in any public duties: Hearing
men talk and reason together and discuss
governmental questions was quite a school
for these young men, not  that it was all
sound doctrine or correct principles, but it
gave them an insight into a life that was
fresh and new at least to them. They had
more of the theoretical in their natures, and
yet were totally unlike. Time passed
pleasantly and they parted from their new-
made friends with regret thongh both were
anxious to return home; and the young

[Column 3]
ladies were desirous of having their company
once again.
	The first subject under discussion after
Clair’s return home was whether they
should spend the winter in the couutry or
go up to London—Burke had sent word
that Clair would be needed in London to
transact some business and the Doctor nat-
urally urged the country on his own ac-
count, but ostensibly in behalf of the tenan-
try who had never had real Christmas
festivities since Sir Edward had become so
much of a recluse. Anna was really the one
whose claim seemed strongest, for she had
never spent a season in London and favored
going there, she had professed great inter-
est in charitable work among the tenants
when Maitland made his stolen visits, but
it was only a pretext as her cousin Jane
learned to her full satisfaction as well as
disappointment afterwards.
	So it was decided that London should be
the choice for the winter, and Christmas ar-
rangements should be left to the housekeep-
er and others who could assist her in the
distribution, the good Dr. Bland who knew
every one of them to superintend the whole.
	After this was settled Anna was gayer
and busier planning and packing, and
practising for she had almost discarded her
governesses injunctions as to etiquette,
and her love-affairs had made her forgetful
of music and drawing.
	All these she tried to bring back to her
remembrance and Clair was very helpful,
he knew when she was in time and his danc-
ing was perfection. Jane Conway gave no
attention to these trivial matters but busied
herself with things of greater importance.
	The Walton’s were going up to London,
and she knew how much that implied; she
felt that her influence would be less with
Anna, and even with Clair, when thrown
into the society of these fashionable people.
	The old housekeeper was vexed at
having so many orders given her, she felt
very consequential with these young people.
	The old housekeeper was vexed at
having so many orders given her, she felt
very consequential with these young people.
Clair made himself as agreeable as possible,
but she hardly reconciled herself even to his
assuming any authority believing his moth-
er to have been of the gipsy race, and she
would mutter away behind his back about
“the goings on of fine folks, that were no
better than they should be.”
	She wondered too why she was not left
in the will—after serving there “these many
a year” as she expressed it and “no dout”
she would add “this young foreigner will
soon run through all there is, and we’ll go
on to the parish, or be sent to the workus.”
	Miss Conway hearing some of these
things repeated by the servants, felt it her
duty to remonstrate with Mrs. Burke, if she
were to be left in charge at such an impor-
tant time as the Christmas holidays.
	Miss Conway made no allusion to what
she had heard repeated by the servants but
gave some direct orders about the manage-
ment during the winter, when the house-
keeper showed considerable obstinacy and
was so impertinent that she was obliged to
remind her of her position and that her or-
ders were not to be set aside—“and who’ll
ye complain too Ma’am if I refuse to obey
your orders, Lady Anna ’ll never interfere
with me and the solicitor as lives in Lon-
don and has charge is my cousin, least ways
he was poor dear William’s cousin who’s
dead and gone, and he’ll see me righted
ma’am I’m not goin to he humbugged by
young missesses as knows naught, after be-
ing in this house nigh on to twenty years.”


[Column 1]

and with this long speech she flaunted out
of the room in high dudgeon.
	Jane Conway stood still a moment to
think what was best to do, she had heard
before that the housekeeper had a violent
temper when thwarted, but it had never oc-
curred to her that she could threaten, nor
had she even thought of any relationship
between Mrs. Burke the housekeeper and
Mr. Burke her uncle's solicitor. Discretion
is the better part of valor—thought the
young woman, and I'll wait until she has had
time to think better of it, and see her again
tomorrow. Jane did not mention to her
cousins the little incident in the store-room
where she had encountered the housekeeper;
but circumstances shaped themselves, for be-
fore retiring who should be announced but
Burke himself direct from London. The
housekeeper made her appearance all smiles
and furbelows to wait upon him, and Miss
Conway sent a message into the supper room
to say she would like to speak with him as
soon as 'twas convenient for him to see her
in the drawing-room.
	When the boy who brought the message
left the room Mrs. Burke in an undertone
addressing her husband's cousin, "I know
what Miss Conway wants with you, its to
tell you I've refused to obey her orders,
coming interfering with me after I've been
mistress here all these years, and never took
no orders from anybody but Sir Edward
himself."
	"And do you say you refused to obey
Miss Conway? why she's in charge here!
its only against yourself, do you want to be
dismissed from this place? I shan't help you
if you get notice to go—its for your interest
to keep in with the new bosses, there's not
a shilling left in the will for any of you;
but I've no doubt you've saved up a pretty
penny while you've been in service, couldn't
be otherwise, what use have you got for
money with neither chick nor child? No!
Mrs. Burke you'd better keep the place and
be respectful."
	Mrs. Burke was very much crestfallen
after this conversation, she had counted up-
on this relative of her husband's in case of
any emergency arising, and he had not
shown as much feeling for her as one
might expect from a stranger, but she made
up her mind that she wouldn't leave him a
penny if she should die tomorrow. This
was her verdict.
	Burke the solicitor went to the drawing-
room prepared to do battle in her defence, if
necessary however for he too thought the
Baronet might have remembered his faith-
fnl servants in his will.
	He was totally disarmed when Miss Con-
way appeared, and was ready to agree with
her in everything. In fact she was so cool
and dignified he could not but admire her
manner of dealing with the difficulty. She
said very little but he understood how em-
barrassing her position was, and that she
was really the only one in the house who
could exercise any authority in a way to
command respect, and he could see plainly
that if Mrs. Burke revolted the whole re-
tinue of servants (save perhaps one or two)
would join with her, and the household
turned topsy-turvy and the going to London
would be stopped, and out of that he figured
on turning this London season to his own
account.
	The morning brought the housekeeper
early to Miss Conway's room, "to talk
things over and know what was expected"
she said, but Jane could easily see she was
very much upset and anxious to conciliate.

[Column 2]

The interview was in every way satisfactory,
and Jane really felt much more at ease than
if the cloud that hung over the domestic
department had not burst.
	Two or three days sufficed to settle Mr.
Burke's business, and off he set to see after
the final arrangements for the house in town.
Sir Edward had never kept a house in Lon-
don always taking handsome apartments
suited to a single gentleman who only
wanted to mingle with his own "set."
	Lady Anna was all excitement and her
cousin feared nervous prostration but the
Doctor was watchful and gave her strict
orders and also warned Maitland in regard
to the matter, telling him that she was so
frail he would need to avoid everything
calculated to trouble or to weary her.
Young men don't comprehend such mat-
ters very well, and young Walton was very
ignorant about girls having never had any
sisters and his ideas about women were all
formed by his own mother, whose natnral
constitution was excellent.
	Lady Anna was almost ill by the time
they were ready to go and her cousin felt
reluctant about leaving home, remember-
ing the last journey and the terrible fatality,
but the Doctor consented to travel with his
ward and see her safe to her journey's end,
and that reconciled Miss Conway to leaving
home. The young girl improved as they
went by easy stages, the cold bracing air
gave her an appetite and when they arrived
she looked more like herself and Dr. Bland
felt no reluctance in leaving her in her
cousin's care.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.		19


[Column 1]

THE OLD PIANO.

DEAR honored old Piano,
	Standing idle, silent, still,
Where are the skilled performers,
	That oft made thy chords to thrill?
Where are the fairy fingers,
	That flew over the ivory keys,
Where are the sweet-voiced minstrels,
	And the tuneful melodies?
Where are the groups that gather'd
	And the happy household throngs;
Strains of heavenly music,
	And the sweet inspiring songs?
Where are my lovely daughters,
	Where my handsome growing boys,
Books, and instruments idle;
	O, where the bustle and noise?
I look thro' doors and windows,
	Afar up and down the street,
Listen for merry voices,
	And the tramp of coming feet,
Shading my eyes from sun rays,
	As erst in days of old,
Wonder if they are straying
	Affar on the hills of gold?
I call in vain for answer,—
	I'm weary waiting alone;
Why so long do they tarry,
	Ah, will they never return?
Oft in moments of musing,
	Floating like incense along,
Come the sweet airs of Beethoven,
	And grand old masters of song.
Two little forms oft I fancy,
	Conning o'er their lesson sheet,
And one, two, three, four counting;
	Again, and again repeat.
I mark the dimpled fingers,
	And rich braids of shining hair,
Plaited, tied with blue ribbon,
	With mother's caressing care.
Again in fairest of fabrics,
	Wrought out in daintiest looms,

[Column 2]

Flowers, loving hands gather'd
	Distilling richest perfumes.
Standing before the altar,
	Looking angelic, divine!—
Admiring crowds there follow,
	Music and service sublime.
The church filled, and o'erflowing,—
	Mark the sacred rites performed,
Hear from the organ pealing,
	Strains of divinest song,
The marriage robes, and vestments,
	And scenes most superbly fair,
Pass in array before me,
	With the sacredness of prayer.

Husband sons all absent—
	The martial music has ceased,
And red fields of the mangled,
	Are crowned with the sheaves of peace,
Bringing forth fruits of freedom;
	And reaping from martyr'd slain,
Nourished with blood of heroes,
	Like early and latter rain.
Into God's-Acre peaceful,
	Have been borne my precious dead,— 
Moving from the church altar
	I’ve followed with mournful tread.

Dear honored old Piano!
	Treasured mem'ries thou dost hold,
Ever to mind recalling,
	Vanished scenes from days of old.
Thro' budding, bloom, and fruitage,
While I here my vigils keep,
	Far into chill of winter;
And its length'ning shadows deep.
			L. M. HEWLINGS.
	ATCHISON, KAN.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. ZERELDA G. WALLACE, “the
mother of Ben Hur,” has lately become a
great grandmother.
	THE Women’s Educational and Indus-
trial Society; Fall River, Mass., has been
incorporated. Susan H. Wixon is president,
and Mary E. Hyde, treasurer.
	DR. AMELIA B. EDWARDS left almost the
whole of her property to found a profes-
sorship of Egyptology, under certain con-
ditions, at University College, London. It
is believed that the value of the chair will
amount to about $2,000 a year.
	MISS E. U. YATES, of Maine, has in-
vented a new word, “Mrdame” (Mr. and
lady), pronounced Merdam. She says: “In
the new order of things, there is a demand
for a title to express the partnership of
men and women in business. This word
can be applied when the partners are hus-
band and wife, brother and sister, or broth-
er and somebody else’s sister, viz: Mrdame
Smith and Jones.’’ This is ingenious, and
may be found to meet a “long-felt want.”
	MISS FRANCES HARDCASTLE, of Girton
College, Eng., who has been placed in the
second class, division three, of Part II. of
the Mathematical Tripos, is a grand-daugh-
ter of Sir John Herschel. She entered Gir-
ton in 1888, and was a Senior Optime in
Part I. of the tripos last year. Although
Miss Hardcastle has not obtained a first,
she has done better in Part II. than any
woman who has hltherto taken it except
Miss Fawcett. The mathematics in that
part are considered so difficult that few ex-
cept high Wranglers ever attempt it. Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $300. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	AUGUST 1, 1892.


[Column1]

PIONEER DAY.

	THE anniversary of the 24th of July, 1847, will
always be a day of days to the Pilgrims who mi-
grated hither during that eventful year and those
who followed them later, also to their children
and children's children down to the latest genera-
tion. For the sake of the children it seems im-
portant to celebrate in some appropriate way,
either publicly or in families by gathering to-
gether, this day; that the brave men and women
who crossed the trackless plains and marked out
a path for their friends to follow may be held in
sacred remembrance, also because they raised
the standard of liberty on the mountain's top, the
flag of our country, the stars and stripes dear to
every American heart, and it floated to the breeze
for the first time in the great American desert
from the highest peak adjacent and because of
this, it was named Ensign Peak. This fact should
be well established in the minds of the rising
generation, let them hear it from the lips of those
who are living witnesses, for the pioneers are fast
passing away.
	Of the three pioneer women not even one re-
mains, but their memory is dear to the hearts of
their sisters, women who know how loyal and
true they were and how fearless in the cause of
right. And what of the hundreds who followed
after? many little graves as well as larger ones
marked the passage over the great mountains
and across the desert plains. The mothers who
laid their little babes down by the wayside, know-
ing that they could not mark the spot only tem-
porarily, and knowing too that wolves and beasts
of prey ranged over the wild and desolate country.
What sublime faith these Pilgrim mothers had,
none know save those who shared with them the
toils and burdens of those wearisome days. These
things and a thousand other memories arise when
one reflects upon the early dangers and hard-
ships encountered by those, who left their all the
world held dear, to seek out a refuge, a resting
place where they might be free in the exercise of
their religion.
	The privations of those early days are too
severe to be dwelt upon today, and the blessing
and prosperity that has attended this people in
the valleys of the mountains is something almost
beyond belief to those who know the small be-
ginnings. The generation now growing up will
never be able to comprehend the struggles and
difficulties of those times in past history, unless
they should go into a new country as destitute as
this people came hither.
	There is nothing in this world but religious
faith engrafted in the soul, that could sustain and
bind together a band of people, as the Latter-day
Saints were sustained and united under the most
trying and adverse circumstances. Let those who
know not such eternal principles scoff and deride

[Column 2]

if they choose, but they who have passed
through these ordeals know that only the most
implicit trust in the Divine source of all good,
could ever have helped them to endure the trials
and perils incident to the journeyings and settle-
ment of these mountain vales. No wonder they
are dear and sacred, for here this people have
lived and suffered and labored and toiled, and
fasted and prayed; sometimes in adversity with
starvation staring them in the face, but through
the blessing of God relief has come and the
heavens have smiled again, and the devastating
insects have been swept away. Many blessings
have been vouchsafed the Saints, and the early
and the latter rain, though the old mountaineers
declared that nothing could be raised here be-
cause there was no rain. Each year almost the
rain has increased and the irrigation has been
lessened, the desert does verily blossom as the
rose, and many miracles have been wrought in
behalf of the Saints if they would but understand.
	In contemplating even the small work done by
women in an organized capacity for that is al-
most the only way to estimate it, we repeat in re-
flecting even upon this small proportion of the
great whole, one cannot but wonder how so
much means has been accumulated,and after dis-
tributing to those in need, and to other worthy
purposes how much is still held in trust for future
use. The women of Utah have performed their
part nobly in all the various places, and some of
them have been very trying ones, and have never
shrunk from fulfilling their part pf the work of
building up the country from the days the pio-
neers landed here down to the present time.
	The experience has enriched them in wisdom,
such as is needed to do battle in times of great
struggles, and this experience, much of it, relates
to the inner life, and the hearts have been edu-
cated more perhaps than the brain, but in this
day of great learning and knowledge of all arts
and sciences the heart is too often left unculti-
vated. Yes, women here have borne their share of
the burdens that attended the opening up of a
new and barren country, and meantime by their
comforting and tender words, by their more
simple and childlike faith have stimulated their
husbands,brothers and sons in many a dark hour.
	Ye who come today and see the fruits of the
industry, thrift and diligence of these gray-haired
pioneers, do not fail to do them the reverence
they deserve,and do not forget that through it all
the women stood by them sharing every hard-
ship with the courage and fortitude of the Pilgrim
mothers of New England, for except for the
heroic trust in God that animated them, they
knew no more where their feet were to be
planted than did those who crossed the mighty
ocean and landed on Plymouth Rock.
	We know whereof we speak when we make
this assertion and hundreds can testify to this
fact. The time may come, and it is devoutly to be
hoped for, when these things will be considered
differently to what they are today, and the part
women have taken in opening up the desert lands
will be fully recognized.
	I know it may be said, other lands have been
colonized and the wilderness cleared and so forth,
but that was different, in this one respect if no
other, that they went prepared and thoroughly
equipped; whereas this people were not given
time to make the necessary preparations for the
journey from Nauvoo, and so scanty was the food
that hundreds died the first year after leaving the
borders of civilization. It was under the most
trying circumstances that they traveled West-
ward, and misrepresentation and falsehood
seemed to follow them even in their wanderings.
	The greatest consolation is only this, "Blessed
are ye when men shall revile you, and persecute
you and shall say all manner of evil against you
falsely, for my name's sake, for so persecuted they
the prophets which were before you."


AN OLD FASHIONED TEA PARTY.

	ON Thursday, July 28th, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson
entertained, in her handsome, new residence on
South Temple Street, about a dozen of her inti-
mate friends; we were very fortunate in being
one of the number. The lady is known to be a 
charming hostess, and her daughters are also
gifted in this respect. The tea was a perfect suc-
cess, the centre of the table was decorated with
choice flowers in an elegant large China basin,
and pretty bouquets tastefully made were laid for 
each guest. Exquisite old China and silver gave
the table an artistic look with the snowy linen,
and the conversation was a very pleasant part of
the entertainment for some of those present had
known Mrs. Clawson when only a child of thir-
teen, at the time of the exodus from Nauvoo, her 
mother had died of the hardships incident to
that dreadful journey in mid winter; and she was
left the little child-mother with the care of four or
five younger children.
	Dr. Barney who was present had written, "the
old-fashioned tea of fifty years ago," recalling
memories of her childish days, when her mother
gave an old-fashioned tea--which she read while
the guests were seated, and this very naturally
called up vivid memories of the past, and con-
trasting the present with the days gone by, many
reminiscences were brought to mind. Dr. Barney
had been an intimate friend and playmate of Mrs.
Clawson in fact they had waded the brooks bare
foot as children will, and "have been friends to
gether, in sunshine and in shade;" both Mrs.
Clawson and Dr. Barney are active workers in
the organizations of women, and are interested in
all the vital topics of the day. Mrs. Clawson has
been the mother of a very large family, sons and 
daughters, and grand-children in abundance, but
she only seems now in the prime of her life; of a 
truth "her lines have fallen in pleasant places."


ELDER C. W. PENROSE, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Lizzie Penrose, went
to American Fork, July 29, by special invitation
of Mrs. Hannah Lapish, to attend a Grand Rally
of the W. S. A. of that place; a drive to Utah
Lake, music, speeches, songs, recitations, a
banquet in the musical Emporium etc., were the
order of the day of which we will give a fuller ac-
count hereafter.


AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.

[CONCLUDED.]
	ON the Monday after we commenced our home-
ward journey, our company was enlarged by
several brethren and sisters going to Conference
at Moab, Mrs. Freeze and I got into Brother Wm.
Halls wagon with him and his interesting and in-
telligent daughter Hannah. We traveled a beau-
tiful and excellent road, passed Montezuma
Valley with the City of Cortez in the distance,
also saw the Chuck a Luck Mountains in Arizona,
crossed a good bridge over the long deep and ex-
pensive canal made to take water to Cortez from
the river Dolores. We traveled a long distance,
and camped when quite dark for the night, which
was cloudy and every appearance of rain; our
beds were made by fire light; as we could not see
any distance so I wondered what sort of a place
it was, we slept well and comfortable, on awak-
ing in the morning I saw an immense flock of
crows pass over our beds and said to Mrs. Freeze
we are going to have no rain the crows are flying
very high. On getting on my elbow and looking
around I was delighted with the sight of the field
of beautiful flowers on which we had slept, there
was nothing else in view, I pulled a bunch which
I keep for a relic from under our wagon cover
and mattress and I admired the place as a verit
able "Field of Ardath."


[Column 1]

	Continuing our journey we rode over a very
good and picturesque road, camped and had
lunch in a little grove 9,000 feet above the sea
level, drove fifteen miles, watched and saw the
last of that beautiful and majestic "Cathedral
Rock." Arrived at Dove creek, good water, re-
plenished our jars, and camped about a mile
farther; next day came to Piute springs, delicous
water, lunched and continued our travel, passed
La Plata and Blue mountains in the distance, saw
one solitary coyote, after hearing a number of
them howl and bark the night previous; we
wanted to see a big herd of them; on arriving in
evening at Monticello we received a very warm
and hearty welcome from the good folks there.
Mrs. Freeze and I attended a party given in the
school house in honor of the efficient and intelli-
gent teacher, Brother Thomas, who was intend-
ing to return to his home in Provo for vacation,
we very much enjoyed ourselves. Next day we
held a general woman's meeting, there was a
large attendance. In the afternoon Brother
Rogerson and wife came with buggy to take Mrs.
Freeze and I a drive to a high eminence where
we could get a splendid view of the surrounding
country, we came to Soldier Springs where a
company of troops had a good easy time and
vacation looking for culprits and cattle stealers
whom they did not find. We sat and looked
around the horizon seeing in the distance the
Mountains, La Plata, Blue, Silverton, La Salle, Ute
and Mancos.
	On starting from Monticello our company
numbered twenty-six persons, we had a most en-
joyable time in our camp that night, music and
singing, and we felt almost sorry our "camping
out" was to end so soon this being our last night.
Next morning we had a slight scare, some of the
horses were not to be seen, after a delay of a
short time they were all found safe; we passed
"Church Rock" a grand appearing and massive
sight, several of us walked down and up a very
large and dangerous gulch, flowers, flowers
everywhere, passing which, we came to a very
long and dangerous dugway, stopped and
lunched at Kane Creek. Traveled in afternoon
to Moab, Brother Holyoak's family were all
kindness and love to us; we were very much de-
lighted to meet Brothers Savage and Talmage,
who came to meet with the Saints in Conference;
we had a most interesting and instructive time
during the meetings held Saturday and Sunday.
On Sunday evening the Y. L. M. I. A. held a
Conference, addresses were given by Mrs. Freeze
and myself, Brothers Savage and Talmage, the
house was crowded. On Monday the Relief
Society and Primary Association held their Con-
ferences; all the meetings were fully attended; in
fact the meeting house was filled to its utmost
capacity, all seemed well satisfied and fully repaid
for the trouble they had taken in traveling so
many long miles. On Tuesday we had a painful
time in parting with our much loved and es-
teemed friends, Brother and Sister Hammond,
Counselors William Halls and Platte Lyman,
Bishop and Sister George Halls and others who
will ever hold a warm place in my heart. On
Wednesday morning we left Moab very early,
Brother Orlando Warner Jr. taking Sister Freeze
and myself; Brother Bayles taking Brothers
Savage and Talmage to Grand River which we
crossed safely on the ferry boat.
	As in our outward trip we camped for lunch at
"Courthouse Rock," still flowers, flowers every-
where, a continuous "Field of Ardath" all along
the road which the brethren kept us well supplied
with. Arrived safe and well at Thompson's
Springs, where we changed again to the railroad.
We had six weeks very pleasant visit with the
kind and hospitable people of San Juan Stake
who did all in their power to make us happy and
we certainly enjoyed ourselves to the utmost ex-
tent of our feelings. It was also the most de-

[Column 2]

lightful season of the year to travel. We give
heartfelt thanks to President F. A. Hammond for
giving us the opportunity.
			ELIZABETH HOWARD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LOVELY WOMAN PASSED AWAY.

	At her home in San Francisco, Sunday, July
17th, there passed from our earthly presence,
another loyal, active member of the Pacific Coast
Women's Press Association, our Assistant Re-
cording Secretary, Mrs. Susan Taylor D'Evelyn,
the wife of Dr. F. W. D'Evelyn, a physician of
note in that city.
	The Press Association had no more earnest,
active member, nor any worker therein a more
faithful friend than Mrs. D'Evelyn. As a member
of the Executive Board and several standing
committees she was untiring in her zeal for the
success of the organization. She was the personi-
fication of all that is beautiful in Christian wo-
manhood and happy motherhood. The heart of
each one of a host of friends, both men and wo-
men, goes out today in tender, but what would
seem to be helpless sympathy for the two little
motherless children, who in the blissful ignorance
of their babyhood, are yet unconscious of the
depth of their loss, but who in the days and years
to come will yearn in vain for the mother love
and care that was given them so abundantly.
	Besides her devotion to her husband and babies
Mrs. D'Evelyn found time in her active young life
not only for her Master's work in the church, but
to take hold wherever a helping hand was needed
along the philanthrophic lines outside, to identify
herself with whatever humanitarian movements
she could. Every interest of her husband's was
hers. In his hospital work she was close beside
him, having been foremost in the plan of the work
of the Lady Patronesses of the San Francisco
Polyclinic which adjunct to that body has proved
itself so efficient in supplementing the good work
among the afflicted poor.
	Mrs. D'Evelyn was a native of the country
which has given to the world so many of its
brilliant writers, Tom Moore, Sheridan, and
Burke the prominent among them. Her writings
abound in that true native wit so rare a gift. For
a number of years a beloved instructor in Victoria
College, Dublin, she has since her residence in
America been in correspondence with the Victoria
College Magazine, and a contributor to other
Dublin papers beside her connection with the
press of California. In her death the people of
the Pacific Coast have lost another woman of
earnest endeavor and inestimable power for good
in the example of her unselfish life.
			MINNA V. LEWIS.
SAN FRANCISCO.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

	A TRIBUTE to the Memory of the late Sister
Sarah E. Groo, read at a meeting of the 9th Ward
Relief Society, July 19,1892.
	Since our last meeting, our Heavenly Father
has called home our much beloved and highly
esteemed President, Sister Groo. Although
suddenly snatched from earthly home and ties,
her life’s work has been but a preparation for just
such a summons into another realm of usefulness.
In contemplating this to us, sad event, we can
but conclude, in consideration of how much good
has been crowded into that life work, that our
Father made no mistake in taking from us one
who, though not having lived the time alloted to
mortals as we count time and years, had, if
rightly estimated accomplished even more than a
beneficent Father would require of a dutiful
daughter in that lapse of time. Accepting this
view of the case, we cannot call the change alto-

[Column 2]

gather untimely, yet to the bereaved and deso-
lated hearts we fully realize it can but be sadly
unwelcome. In her home life the departed was
all that the sweet words, woman, wife and
mother can imply—a tower of strength and an
anchor of rest to which, instinctively, all hearts
would fondly and lovingly cling.  And if "to be a
true womanly woman is great" then Sister Groo
has won that distinction; yes, and more, for she
was not only a true womanly woman, but a true
Latter-day Saint, the highest distinction to which
mortals can attain.
	Not alone in the hearts of husband, children,
and others endeared by ties of kindred will Sister
Groo be missed and mourned. For many years
past, her duties in connection with the Relief
Society have caused the strongest ties of friend-
ship to spring up between herself and associates
in their mutual labor of love; not ordinary ties of
friendship, to be a faint memory in the busy whirl
of life; but eternal and enduring as heaven itself,
and not until these same relations are renewed in
a higher life will the loss occasioned by her de-
parture be fully recompensed. Among the poor,
the afflicted and sorrowful, it would be impossible
to enumerate her deeds of love and kindness, but
unwritten though they be, in the grateful hearts
of the recipients, the memory of Sister Groo will
ever remain green.
	After a brief but intensely severe illness, Sister
Groo departed this life on June 22, 1892, in the
sixty-sixth year of her age. She came to Salt
Lake City from New York, her native state in
the year 1854, since which time she has resided in
this ward, with the exception of a brief period
when she in common with the rest of the Saints
vacated her home and moved South.
	On November 15,1870, she was called to occupy
the position of President of the Relief Society of
this ward, previous to which time she had filled
the office of Counselor. By nature retiring and
modest, inclination would have led her to decline
the acceptance of positions savoring of a public
character, and no motive save that of a stern
sense of duty, could have induced her to yield
her own desires in this respect to gratify the
wishes of others. Yet, she was ever equal to the
requirements of these offices, discharging her
every duty with characteristic dignity and
efficiency, giving entire satisfaction to all over
whom she presided as well as to her superiors
in office.
	That the faithful and devoted wife, mother,
sister and friend has earned the rest she now en-
joys, none will doubt, and while we deeply sym-
pathize with those whose hearts are broken and
desolated by this sad event, yet in fancy we
picture her joy in meeting the loved ones gone
before, and we are glad even in the midst of our
own great sorrow, that she at least has some
alleviation for any pang it may have cost her to
leave the loved and lonely ones behind.
	The funeral services were held on Friday the
24th of June, being very appropriate and impres-
sive, the remarks relating to the estimable char-
acter and life of the deceased.
	The casket of white was completely covered
with the choicest flowers wrought in the most ex-
quisite designs—the gift of those who knew how
well she loved these beautiful creations of her
Father.  And when, at last, her mortal remains
were consigned to mother earth, the mound
which marks her last resting place was a literal
bed of flowers, placed there in quiet sorrow and
reverence by the daughters of her husband, a
fitting close to the last sad rites, paid to one who
always loved and worked among the flowers.
			HATTIE A. WOOLLEY.
July, 7, 1892.


Quarrels would not last long if the fault
was only on one side.—Rochefoucault.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT.

SAN JUAN STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society Conference
of the San Jaun Stake of Zion held at
Moab, May 23rd 1892. Pres. Martha Ham-
mond presiding, choir sang, "Prayer is the
soul’s sincere desire." Prayer by Counselor
William Halls, singing, "God is love."
	Minutes of the last meeting read and ac-
cepted. Pres. Hammond gave an interest-
ing account of her visit around the Stake
with the sisters from Salt Lake City. The
several branches in the stake were then
represented Counselor Delia Lyman re-
ported Bluff, Sister Moselle Halls Mancos,
Sister Miriam Wharton Monticellc, Sarah
Holyoak, Moab.
	All agreed that the Society represented
was in a prosperous condition and that a good
feeling prevailed among the sisters and the
Lord was blessing them in their endeavors
to do their duty.
	A song entitled "The Old Cabin" was
rendered by Daisy Shaffer and Mrs. West-
wood.
	Sister Howard spoke of the Relief Society
as a medium through which to obtain in-
telligence and testified that the Lord did
bless all who tried to take part in the work,
all sisters should be alive energetic and
active members of the Relief Society. The
duty of the sisters is to grow into the knowl-
edge of the Gospel and all other intelligence.
	Sister Freeze encouraged the sisters to
speak and take an active part in the meet-
ings, knew the Lord had and would still
bless the sisters in their endeavors to do
their duty urged all to be united and love
each other.
	Br. C. R. Savage from Salt Lake City,
realized that the mission of good sisters is a
great one as they have the blessed privilege
of ministering to the sick and needy and
pour in the wine and oil of human kind-
ness and could be a blessing to all they
came in contact with.
	Dr. J. E. Talmage from Salt Lake City
spoke of the prosperous condition of the
people of this stake said the Relief Society is
doing a grand work.
	Even the great people of the world ad-
mire the organization of the Relief Society.
The speaker continued his remarks at some
length, the theme being praise and admira-
tion for the work done by the sisters.
	Pres. F. A. Hammond endorsed what had
been said by all, hoped all would remember
the good words and would be encouraged
and induced to attend conference more often.
Pres. Martha Hammond testified that the
Spirit of the Lord had been largely enjoyed
during this meeting, spoke of the good done
by the sisters from Salt Lake in their travels
and prayed the blessings of the Lord to still
attend us.
	Conference adjourned for three months
choir sang an anthem "Straight is the Gate."
Benediction by Platte D. Lyman.
		ANNA M. LYMAN Sec. protem.
		EMMA BAYLES, Stake Sec.


LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY
MEETINGS.

	THE regular meeting of the sisters which
convenes in the 14th Ward of this city held
Saturday, July 2, at 2 p. m., was specially
interesting. President M. I. Horne pre-
sided. Opened by singing "All is well etc"
prayer by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, singing "O


Jesus the Giver" etc. Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved, also minutes of
conjoint meeting of 17th Ward and South
Bountiful Primary Associations.
	President Horne was the first speaker,
she spoke of the positions women are and
may be called to occupy, the management
of home, order necessary to happiness,
prayer not to be neglected, humility and
faith needful, referred to the parable of the
ten virgins, and the many temptations that
beset us on every side.
	Mrs. Clara Cannon bore her testimony,
expressed her desire to remain faithful.
	Mrs. F. Smith rejoiced in being with the
Saints after an absence of some months;
said, "there is no place like home," there
are many people in Los Angelos claiming
to be Latter-day Saints and much good
could be done by Elders visiting them,
nothing could induce her to leave this place,
desired to be preserved in the truth."
	Mrs. Julia C. Howe spoke upon
the economy of home; thought our children
should be encouraged to save their nickels
for the Temple and other good purposes,
teachings of this kind will be remembered
by the little ones when they grow to be men
and women.
	Mrs. H. C. Young related a dream she
had in the early days, showing the things
now coming to pass, felt it was necessary
that the young people should be tried,
thought if we clung to our children they
would be saved, she would never slacken
her hold upon the young girls, they will all
eventually be gathered into the fold,
thought much depended upon our union.
	Mrs. E. Paul felt blessed in coming to
the meeting had been prevented by sickness
for some time past.
	Counselor E. Webb felt that the grand-
mother could do a great deal, through kind-
ness to the little ones; they generally be-
lieved all that grandma told them; wished
the young mothers could be at these meet-
ings and hear the teachings, love and
charity should fill our hearts continually,
through love and kindness we must try to
keep the youth in the right path, and may
the Lord bless our efforts.
	Counselor E. Stevenson, "We can't live
too near the Lord in these times, the good
things we hear should be put into daily
practice, we should cease to speak evil of
one another, and learn the lesson of charity;
be guarded in all our sayings, we know that
our lives are full of trials, she felt full of
sympathy for young mothers; we should
treasure up in our hearts the good we have
heard today, and may the Lord assist us to
put it into practise, that we may be useful
in building up his kingdom.
	President Horne made closing remarks, ex-
horting the sisters to be faithful and diligent
in all their duties, that they might receive
the blessings promised. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks, singing "Lord dismiss us
etc. Benediction, V. R. Young.


EXTRACT FROM LETTER.

	THE Bishop wishes me to say he is very
grateful for your kind feelings, and good
wishes expressed in your last letter, in re-
gard to his birthday. He had three good
letters from Salt Lake, which he appreciates
very much.
	We had a nice time here on the 23rd, of
July, with about fifty of our friends. The
Stevenson's and company addition was
greatly appreciated. We deemed it a rare


privilege to entertain such dear, good
friends.
	We had a fine 24th, a lovely procession,
with representations of "Uath as it was,
Utah as it is, Utah's Best Crop," Relief
Society, Sunday School, Primary, and
many other features. The speeches, songs,
recitations etc., were excellent, while not an
expression was made throughout the whole
time, to which our friends, of which there
were many present, could take exception,
or that could possibly leave "a sting behind"
hence "peace and good will" reigned.
	We have torn down all our old log cabins
"relics of a harder day" and are building a
good addition to our home which will make
it very convenient. And while we are
building, we always give the workmen
dinner and supper, which means a good
deal of work for me. But I can not but do
it with the best of feelings, for when we
built the old primitive cabins, which are
now no more, Sister Maria Madsen and I
carried water from Sanpitch, made the mud
and plastered them with our own hands.
	Well, Sister Wells, times have changed,
I trust I shall not be ungrateful to our
Heavenly Father for the change.
	With kindest regards in which the
Bishop joins I remain,
	As ever your friend and sister in the
Gospel of peace,
			HELENA MADSEN.
	GUNNISON, July 27, 1892.


FOOD FOR THOUGHT.

	AGAIN I have been reading the record
which has been hid up in the ground for
ages, but now brought to light for the bene-
fit of this generation; a time when great
knowledge is given; many sciences de-
veloped, which exhibit the most powerful
display of the human mind, until it really
seems God-like; and why? Did not our
Savior say what would be done in the last
days? Yes truly, He said in the last days
his spirit would be poured out upon all
flesh, your sons and daughters should
prophesy, your old men see visions, and
young men dream dreams, etc.
	We are also told this good spirit will show
us things to come, and bring things to our
remembrance. Will not this make us suc-
cessful in all our pursuits of life? yes surely;
as well in science as any other laudable pur-
suit.
	St. Paul said, "knowledge puffeth up, but
charity edifieth." Here then is the danger
of becoming proud because of the attain-
ments we arrive at. Shall the praise of the
world make us forget God, the author of all
science? We must be short-sighted indeed
if we allow this vanity to take possession of
our minds.
	Yet we are told there is a becoming kind
of pride, yes as many kinds of pride as there
are of virtues. Now I must tell you that
this ancient record, the Book of Mormon,
has given me a new field of thought on this
subject.
	In my youth I was taught to think that
pride was the main spring to success. A
person without pride would not fill any
position properly; because he would be
lacking in ambition, also in dignity and
self-respect; but since reading this book a
clearer view, more sound principles have
presented themselves to my mind. I can
see that the word pride has not been prop-
erly defined. I feel quite positive that the


attributes of the Deity which naturally be-
long to us should never be called pride.
Pride being surely just the opposite to
humility, for it is written of God our Father,
that He resists the proud but gives grace to
the humble.
	Only think while our Savior was fasting
forty days and nights in the depths of
humility; Did He lack dignity and self-
respect, when told to cast himself down
from the pinnacle of the Temple to prove
he was the son of God? The tempter said
if thou be the Son of God cast thyself down,
for it is written, He will give his angels
charge concerning thee to keep thee lest thou
dash thy foot against a stone. His reply
was, "It is written thou shalt not tempt the
Lord thy God." In each temptation he
was reproved in the same manner.
	We learn from this blessed book, points
of doctrine most precious, which will en-
able us to give things their proper value
and also their proper place. While reading
the account of our Savior who after his
resurrection came to this continent to visit
"sheep of another fold," here he taught
them his gospel, same as he taught the
Jews, called his sermon on the mount;
found in the 5th, 6th and 7th chapters of
St. Mathew. These people listened and
obeyed, and three generations passed away
in righteouness.
	But in the fourth generation pride made
its appearance. Then animosity and strife
began; hatred, malice and revenge, took
the place of faith, hope and charity, and
destruction followed in its train.
	Now let us contemplate the difference be-
tween pride and humility, which last like
the bread of heaven strengthens and builds
np, while pride, like the intoxicating bowl,
only stimulates and intoxicates, and if in-
dulged in, will confuse and darken the
mind and also bring destruction and death.
Yet we are told this intoxicating draught is
made from the same grain that bread is
made of; then why not claim the virtues to
belong to pride which humility claims? But
the process which produces the intoxicant
is so different, from the plain, simple bread
of humility, here is the difference.
	Humility in her plain, simple garb could
keep three generations in righteousness,
loving, kind and charitable to all, and thus
make a heaven on the earth. While pride,
made of the same material, upsets and over-
throws all the joy and peace which humility
produces.
	No wonder then that the Bible teaches
that "The Lord resists the proud, but gives
grace to the humble," for by this His king-
dom will be built up, but by the other it
will be destroyed.
	Apostle Orson Pratt once said that we
are Gentile Saints; this being the case we
find ourselves, from force of habit, giving
pride the same credit today that we did be-
fore hearing the Gospel, although so often
corrected in Holy Writ, saying "beware of
pride." Also saying "Pride cometh before
destruction and a haughty spirit before a
fall."
	Have not we fallen far enough? since the
Lord permits those who look upon us with
contempt and ridicule to govern and bear
rule? Let us reflect.
			ZION'S CONVERT.
	BOUNTIFUL, July 8, 1892.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Raillery is sometimes more insupportable
than wrong; because we have a right to re-
sent injuries, but it is ridiculous to be angry
at a jest.—Rochefoucault.


[Column 1]

PREHISTORIC MAN IN AMERICA.

[Continued.]
	Knowledge of the American continent
existed in China and Japan as early as the
fifth century. The ships of the Chinese
visited it. They called it Fu-Sang, and in
the great Japanese encyclopaedia it is treated
at some length, and located as seven thou-
sand miles or more east of Japan.
	In 1170 a Welsh prince sailed westward,
passing the south of Ireland, in search of a
land of refuge from the civil war that ex-
isted among his countrymen. After a long
journey he found it and made preparations
for a settlement. He returned to Wales,
secured a company that filled ten ships, and
sailed away never returning. Nearly five
hundred years later, in 1660, Rev. Morgan
Jones. a Welsh clergyman, seeking to go
by land from South Carolina to Roanoke,
was captured by the Tuscarora Indians.
He declares that his life was spared because
he spoke Welsh, which some of the Indians
understood; that he was able to converse
with them in Welsh, though with difficulty,
and that he remained with them four months,
sometimes preaching to them in Welsh. In
early colonial times the Tuscaroras were cal-
led "White Indians" and their ancestors
were evidently the Welsh colony that left
Wales in 1170. But the Norsemen had set-
tlements in America long before this period.
	During the last fifteen years there has
been a new theory advanced by Lewis H.
Morgan. He holds "that there never was
a prehistoric American civilization, proper-
ly so-called, but only an advanced and won-
derfully skillful barbarism or semicivilization
at the utmost. The aboriginal races, ex-
cept perhaps the Esquimaux, were essential-
ly one in their social structure, but varying
in their development. In his view there
never was an Aztec or Maya empire, but
only a league of free tribes, appointing
their own chiefs, and accepting the same
general modes of organization that have pre-
vailed among all the more advanced famil-
ies of North American Indians. The for-
ests of Yucatan held no vast cities—cities
whose palaces remain, while the humble
dwellings of the poor have perished, but
only pueblo towns, in whose great com-
munal structures rich and poor alike dwelt."
	The largest aboriginal structure of stone
in the United States is at Pecos, New Mex-
co. It has a circuit of 1,480 feet, is five
stories high, and once included five hundred
separate rooms. This dwelling at one time
sheltered the inhabitants of a whole Indian
town. There are many other similar ruins
and, as a rule each of these buildings consti.
tuted a village—a single vast house built
on three sides of a court. The stories rose
in snccessive terraces, each narrower than
the one beneath, and each approachable only
by ladders; there being no sign of any inter-
nal means of ascent from story to story.
The outer walls were built usually of thin
slabs of gray sandstone, laid with the great-
est precision and accuracy, often with no
sign of mortar, the intervals being filled
with stones of the minutest thinness, so that
the whole ruin appears in the distance like
a magnificent piece of mosaic work. These
pueblos were practically impregnable to all
uncivilized warfare, and they differ only in
material from the adobe pueblos occupied
by the village Indians of to-day. The only
means of passing from one terrace to another
in both instances is by ladders. Many of
these buildings are now occupied, but more
are in ruins. Each shelters hundreds of

[Column 2]

inhabitants, and the existing village Indians,
Mr. Morgan thinks, probably represent for
us not merely the race, but the mode of liv-
ing of those who built every one of these
great structures. He also thinks that if we
wish to know what was the America which
Cortez invaded we must look for it in the
light of these recent investigations.
	Whatever degree of barbarism or semi-
civilization was obtained by any of the early
American races, it was everywhere based
on similar ways of living; it never resem-
bled feudalism, but came much nearer to
communism; it was the condition of a
people substantially free, whose labor was
voluntary and whose chiefs were of their own
choosing.
	Widely scattered throughout the United
States, from sea to sea, artificial mounds are
discovered, which may be enumerated by
the thousands or hundreds of thousands.
They vary greatly in size some are so small
that a half dozen of laborers with shovels
might construct one of them in a day,
while others cover acres and are scores of
feet in height. These mounds were ob-
served by the earliest explorers and pioneers
of the country. They did not attract great
attention, however, until the science of
archaeology demanded their investigation.
Then they were assumed to furnish evidence
of a race of people older than the Indian
tribes.
	The Mound Builders were formerly re-
garded as a race so remote from the present
Indian tribes that there could be nothing
in common between them, yet all recent
theories deny this. Many Indian tribes
have built burial mounds for their dead.
	Some of the mounds in Ohio have yield-
ed from their deepest recesses articles of
European manufacture, showing an origin
not farther back than the historic period.
Spanish swords and blue glass beads have
been found in the mounds of Georgia and
Florida.
	The ancient Mexicans—the Aztecs and
the Mayas—were skilled in horticulture,
yet had no beasts of burden, although the
ox and buffalo were within easy reach.
They were a trading people, and used mon-
ey, but had apparently no system of weigh-
ing. They used stone tools so sharp that
Cortez found barbers in the public squares
shaving with razors made from obsidian, a
sort of glass produced by volcanoes. They
worked in gold and copper, yet they had
not learned to make iron tools from the
masses of that metal which lay almost pure
in their midst. They could observe
eclipses and make a calendar, yet it is still
doubtful whether they had what may prop-
erly be called an alphabet. It is certain
that they had a method of picture writing
not apparently removed in kind from the
soft of pictorial mnemonics practiced by many
tribes of Indians at the present day. There
is in existence an alphabet long supposed to
belong to the Aztecs or Mayas, but a few
years ago it was proved to be a fabrication.
Tylor, who is said to be the highest living
authority on these matters, considers it
essential to the claim of civilization that a
nation should have a written language.
Tried by this highest standard we cannot
yet say that either the Aztecs or the Mayas
or the Mound Builders were civilized.
	To sum up in a few words the modern
theory, or Morgan's theory, prehistoric man
in America, it is: All the lodges, palaces,
and pueblos are but the communal dwellings,
of one great aboriginal race, of uncertain
origin and history, varying greatly in grade


of development, but one in society, and in
blood. This has not yet been fully
developed, so it is but a theory still.
	In order to make this theory consistent
Mr. Morgan ignored many difficulties and
settled many points in an off hand manner,
and often states positively what has been
proved was only probable.
	The annals of the Columbian epoch have
been carefully studied, and it is found that
some of the mounds have been constructed
in historical times, while early explorers
and settlers found many actually used by
tribes of North American Indians; so we
know that many of the Indians were build-
ers of mounds. The contents of these
mounds have been compared with the works
of art of the Indian tribes before they were
influenced by Europeans and both were
substantially identical.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


INFORMATION WANTED.

FOR THE WORLD'S FAIR.

	[Questions to be answered in the County
reports to the Annual Convention of the
W. S. A. of Utah, to be held in Salt Lake
City, October, 1892.]

	How many women in your County own
property and pay taxes?	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Estimate ,if you can, the amount paid.)
	How many ordained women in your
County?	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
	How many charitable institutions con-
ducted by women?	 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
	How many women in your County en-
gaged in literary work?
	How many authors? . . . . . . . . . . . . . How
many teachers? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . How many
lawyers? . . . . . . . . . . . . How many physicians?
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . How many lecturers on local
and general reform?
	Report any other enterprises of special in-
terest to women.


THE Tenth National Convention of the
Woman's Relief Corps will meet in the city
of Washington, D. C., the third week in
September. Members desiring accom-
modations will address Mrs. Janet Richards,
Secretary of Committee on Accommodations,
1,527 R. I. Avenue, N. W., Washington,
D. C.
	MRS. ROYAL LEIGHTON, of the Society
of Friends, sailed recently from New York
for Palestine, to found a second school for
girls about one hundred miles from Jerusa-
lem, and farther in the interior. On a pre-
vious visit she founded a girls' school near
Jerusalem. She is threescore years of age
and successful in work.—Ex.
	MRS. ANNIE L. DIGGS, the well-known
lecturer and writer on Woman Suffrage,
Temperance, and Farmer's Alliance has
written a paper on "Women in the Alliance
Movement." She explains the social con-
ditions which made the present movement
inevitable, and why women from the first
have played such an important part in the
agitation. She gives a vivid pen picture of
prominent women in the movement, with
six illustrations of leading women; includ-
ing a full page picture of Mrs. Mary A.
Lease, popularly called the "Joan of Arc"
of the People's Party.—Ex.


I could never think well of a man's in-
tellectual or moral character if he was
habitually unfaithful to his appointments.—
Emmons.


DIED.

	MARCHANT:—In Peoa, Summit County, Utah,
June 24th, 1892, Lydia Marchant, aged seventy-
eight years.
	Sister Marchant was born in Bath, Somerset-
shire, England, and became a convert to the
Gospel in 1843, and emigrated to Utah in 1854,
with her husband, the late Bishop Abraham
Marchant, and their large family, where she
suffered many hardships in this new country, hav-
ing to pass through the famine, but without com-
plaint.
	The older members of the Church who lived,
and the Elders who traveled in Bath and Birm-
ingham, in the early days of the Church, will re-
member Sister Marchant with pleasure and kind-
ness, for her home was always open to the Elders
and she cheerfully contributed at all times, to the
wants of those in distress.
	She has been the President of the Peoa Relief
Society for many years, in fact almost since it was
organized in Peoa, she also has been the agent of
the EXPONENT.
	She has raised a large family of five sons and
four daughters in the fear and admonition of the
Lord, her whole desire seemed to be to set such
an example that her sons and daughters might
follow her foot steps and thereby be saved in the
kingdom of our Father. She had no desire for
the things of this world, but looked forward to
the happiness to be gained in the next, by a life
worthy of a Latter-day Saint. She was the
mother of eleven children, and leaves nine, one
hundred grand-children and twenty-eight great-
grand-children, to mourn her loss.
	A meeting of the Peoa Relief Society held
on July 12th, passed the following resolution and
ordered a copy to be sent to the EXPONENT, and
a copy to be spread upon the records of the
Society:
	Inasmuch as it has been deemed wise by our
Heavenly Father to take from us our beloved
sister, Lydia Marchant, be it
	Resolved, that in her death we have lost our
beloved President and a kind and loving sister;
and be it further
	Resolved, that we extend our heart-felt
sympathy to her family and friends who are
called to mourn her loss.
		HANNAH M. MARCHANT, Secretary.
	PEOA, UTAH, July 13, 1892.
	Bath papers and Millennial Star please copy.


OBITUARY.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of
Lydia C. Snyder, who departed this life March
30, 1892, aged 70 years, 8 months, and 23 days, at
the 4th Provo ward, Provo City, Utah.
	Whereas it pleased our Heavenly in his alwise
mercy to call from this sphere of action Sister
Lydia C. Snyder who for many years has been an
officer and a member of this association. There-
fore,
	Resolved that in her demise we have lost the
valuable association of an honest and successful
laborer in our noble cause of Relief Society work.
	Resolved, that her example is worthy of imita-
tion by all good women.
	Resolved that we offer our sympathy to her be-
reaved children with the full assurance however
that ours and their loss is less grievous from the
full faith we have in her present happiness and
glorious future through her faith and works and 
the mercies of our Savior.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
printed upon our minutes, a copy presented to


her family and be published in the Provo paper
and in the EXPONENT.
			M. M. WATSON,
			HARRIET BEAN,
			D. I. BOOTH,
			BARBARA SILCK.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed;
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E.
FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.
R.K.THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
[logo for 'Rio Grande Western Railway: SCENIC LINE OF THE WORLD']
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
..THROUGH THE..
ROCKY MOUNTAINS! 
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT  RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. C. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
