VOL. 21.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1892.	No. 6.


CONTENTS.
	In Rural England      .Divine Love—L. M. H.
Worship In Olden Times—Hearth and Hall.
Notes and News. Interesting Item—M. A. Till.
Friday and the Fair. R. S. Reports. “Why so
Many Men do not Marry”—C. C. R. W.
	EDITORIAL:—At Home Again. Baby Eleanor
Pines, Mines and Stage Lines. Editorial Note.
John Greenleaf Whittier. Mrs. May Wright Se-
wall—E. Death of a Sweet Child—Louisa.
	POETRY:—A Silent Lesson—Hyacinth. To the
Night—W. Gow Gregor. O, Where Dost Thou
Wander—R. M. F.


A SILENT LESSON.

I AM sitting by a streamlet,
	In a cool and shady dell,
Where the grass and tiny leaflet,
	In profusion love to dwell.

Here and there I spy a daisy,
	Pearly-white and russet brown,
Nodding bright in sunlight hazy,
	Modest glances casting down.

Up above in branches bending,
	Little songsters, in and out,
Sweetest melodies forth-sending,
	In soft cadences about.

While the tall and stately willows,
	To and fro in silence swing;
Like the undulating billows,
	To the heart sweet music bring.

At my feet 'neath fern leaves drooping,
	There the rippling water flows,
Over rocks and pebbles leaping,
	Down the valley to repose.

Golden gleams of sunlight stealing
	O'er the velvet covered ground;
Flashing sunbeams slowly creeping
	Up and down and all around.

Flutt'ring butterflies still hover,
	Dressed in white, gold, brown and black,
Over buttercups and clover,
	Seeking sweetness neither lack.

Busy bees with ceaseless humming,
	'Mong the moss and watercress—
Heavy-laden homeward coming,
	Dost thou wish thy burden less?

Whence derived that subtle odor—
	Fragrance from an unseen spot?
O'er my scattered senses wander,
	Mem'ries ne'er to be forgot.

Once again sweet perfumes wafted
	By the softly sighing breeze;
'Tis some flower closely shaded,
	By verdant grass and leaves.

Hither, thither, quickly seeking,
	By the banks with dew-drops wet;
Calmly sleeping, shyly peeping,
	Lo! there dreams a violet.

Lowly, humble, little flower,
	Thou art solace to my heart;
Like an ever welcome shower,
	Thou to me sweet hopes impart.

[Column 2]

With a tender, rev'rent feeling,
	I shall bear thee from this spot;
And I'll place in sacred keeping,
	Whisp'ring, "I'll forget thee not."

Oh, the lesson, little flower,
	Thou hast taught me I shall keep;
Ever praying for my dower,
	Traits like thine, pure, good, and meek.

And to live a life so holy;
	Sin can never be a part;
Though it be unknown and lowly,
	It may cheer a drooping heart.

May thy beauty never perish,
	Ever radiant may it last;
In my mem'ry thee I cherish,
	As a token of the past.
			HYACINTH.
ALPINE, Aug. 1, 1892.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXII.
	The journey from London was com-
paratively dnll, Lady Anna grieved being
separated from Maitland, and Miss Conway
was full of vague uncertainties as to her
meeting the Doctor; Clair was the only
really cheerful one of the party; he was
returning heart whole, and with bright
prospects of future prosperity in store. He
tried to keep up a brilliant run of conver-
sation with the young ladies, but it was im-
possible even for him, with his youthful ex-
uberance of spirits; and the second day out,
he relapsed into silence.
	The old coach horses jogged on and the
hours wore away, there was very little to
interest one in the scenery at this early
season of the year, the clouds were dark
and the March winds blew fiercely, so that
there was no chance of opening the coach
windows, and Clair whistled and sang
snatches of songs for his own amusement
until his sister Anna complained, and then
he teased and worried her about Maitland
and Rob Harrison in sheer desperation for
want of something to occupy his time.
	Never was a young woman in more
thoughtful mood than Jane Conway during
the entire journey; she scarcely spoke at all,
except when it was positively necessary, but
on reaching the grounds near the park, she
felt it an imperative duty to herself and
others to rouse from the reverie that had
enveloped her all the way from London,
and to make an effort to respond at least to
the cordial welcome, if homely one, she
knew would be given the party on their re-
turn to the Castle.
	Some rods distant from the great gateway,
horsemen were seen coming towards them,
and Jane's heart beat rapidly feeling sure
Dr. Bland was one of the company. Sure
enough it was the Doctor and a few of his
friends, to escort them in. Jane Conway
knew by this demonstration that he felt
sure of her, or he would have come un-
attended; she was not certain of her self-
control but summoning courage she stood
the test modestly as became the occasion,
and no one unless skilled in love matters

[Column 2]

could have detected the embarrassment she
really felt.
	"The feast is spread, the servants in
holiday attire and the gateways festooned
with trailing evergreens from the park, and
you will be welcomed in the most courtly
manner; a few of the neighbors have been
invited to welcome home the young master
of Hilliard Castle and estates," said the
Doctor, after the first salutations were over.
	"I was in hopes our home-coming would
have been with out parade or demonstration
after so long an absence," replied Miss Con-
way.
	"It would have been impossible after the
message sent down by Burke and Hemen-
way that Mr. Hilliard was to take formal
possession in place of his father, and the
Rector himself has been invited, so you see
it becomes a duty of the nobility he repre-
sents to have some formality, in order to
give a sort of legality to the affair, and
really the gathering is very small compared
to the wealth and rank of the young heir.
It shall be made as light as possible for you,
Lady Anna will be expected to show her-
self equal to the honors, but the principal
thing will be to make the right impression
upon all present, and especially the old re-
tainers and tenantry who are critical on
these customs and usages at festive cere-
monies."
	"We must have time to change our
traveling dresses for dinner costume, after
responding to the salutations outside, my
good Doctor," said Lady Anna.
	"As to that you are the best judges, I see
nothing amiss, your maids will attend to
the dressing, whatever an old fellow like
me might have to say. I see you have a
new attendant, and the Doctor bowed po-
litely to the pretty French maid who rode
with them to be near when wanted. The
coach drew up to the wide massive door-
way and the ponderous oak doors were un-
bolted with great ceremony and there stood
in state, not only the porter and attendants
but the late Baronet's solicitors Burke and
Hemenway, whom the in-coming party had
supposed were at their office in London; the
young Baronet was almost carried off his
feet, and so little did he know of the
strange proceedings that he was scarcely
coherent in his replies. The young Lady
did much better, and Miss Conway whose
part in the involuntary program came last
was so reserved, only bowing, nodding and
smiling that she quite awed the crowd of
enthusiastic admirers, who thronged the
hall and outer landing.
	"How handsome the young heir has
grown, what a magnificent figure and bear-
ing he has! A charming foreign accent and
wonderful eyes! He'll set the whole
country wild!" These and many other
similar exclamations from the crowd were
heard as they passed along, as well as favor-
able comments upon Lady Anna's figure
and appearance, "so like her mother,"
some were remarking, "the same delicate
features, and heavenly eyes;" finally the
girls reached the apartment made ready for
them, where warm wood fires and pale yel-
low lights cast gloomy shadows in the dark


[Column 1]

﻿rooms; and a shiver of nervous fear ran
through Lady Anna as she recalled the
scenes that had transpired of late, and she
could not avoid saying aloud "what a home
coming this is." Her maid caught the re-
mark and began praising everything, tell-
ing her she must not indulge in idle fancies,
but hurry up with the preparations and
consider what to wear on such an auspicious
occasion.
	"The most elegant and decidedly plain
dinner dress I have in my wardrobe," said
Lady Anna with a positive tone that made
Marie look up in amazement, but she yield-
ed the point, though she had prided her-
self on having her resemble a fairy queen
in crepe and pearls which best suited her
style-
	The great bell rang announcing the ban-
quet and Clair was on hand to escort his
sister, the Doctor waited impatiently for
his fiance, for he had not been alone with
her yet; he took her arm in his and led her
aside for a moment; with the calmness of a
saint at the altar of sacrifice she received
his tender embraces, and he was too much
wrought upon to notice her coldness, and
attributed her silence to the excitement and
the importance of the responsibility which
was pending. He was so certain of the
prize he had won that no doubt of its slip-
ping away from him ever entered his head.
	The dinner was a tedious affair as such
feasts generally are, everything was on such
a large scale, and Clair unaccustomed to
presiding at table for the small family of
three, would have been lost without Dr.
Bland's efficient help, who lightened his
task (for such it was) in every conceivable
way.
	Clair had been informed when he first ar-
rived that there would be dancing later on,
a thing unknown in that place, in fact no
one present could recall such an event never
at any time during the recollection of the
guests assembled now, so said one after
another.
	"There is no help for it" said Anna to
her consin, "we must dress again, though
I'm dead tired, and don't want to dance
with these country bumpkins, Clair and the
Doctor are the only good partners, and I
want to go to bed, after such a jaunt and all
this fuss and flurry. Clair is welcome to
all the honors, and I shall not dispute any
claim, and therefore he should do all the
honors, and excuse me from any 'part or
parcel' in the matter; which seems to be
wholly for his glorification."
"O, as to that" replied her cousin, "it is"
pretty evenly divided between you, bnt save
for the fact of his masculinity my opinion
is, we never should have heard of his ex-
istence."
	Anna looked as if she but half compre-
hended the insinuation but said, "Clair is
older and seniority counts a great deal
among the English nobility, it might have
been more unpleasant for me, had he not
been a boy, with those bewitching eyes of
his; I'm glad its no worse, and really what
makes you say we should never have heard
of the heir if he had not been a boy."
"Because it is a stubborn fact of which I am
fully assured; have you not observed in the
course of your short life the deference paid
to men of title in contra-distinction to wo-
men of rank who were far more deserv-
ing."
	"O, but its so different with us, we're of
very little consequence until we're married,
we have no prospect of public trust as papa
used to say, "all this bosh and humbug of

[Column 2]

elections, spending a lot of money to get
some one into office so as to keep up with
the rest of the world," he believed in the
old feudal times of the Barons when every
man's castle was his stronghold, and he was
master by right of his inheritance."
	"He lived up to that as well as he could
in those times, methinks; but, honor bright
cousin mine, its all wrong this discrimi-
nation against our sex, we ought to have
the same rights as our brothers; but we
must dress to dance with the guests of the
fete in honor of the new master, whatever
dislike we may have to the reverent com-
pany," and so the colloquy ended for the
time being. The hours sped gaily notwith-
standing, the great variety of costumes
and colors, the quaint and uncouth manners
of the country people gave merriment to
the festivities, and the young ladies were
highly amused, and danced and laughed
and forgot their weariness and ill-humor in
the general hilarity.
	Even stately Jane Conway grew more
genial under the influence of the music, and
her old bachelor lover felt quite at ease in
the warmth of her smiles, though not a
loving word passed between them until the
time for departure, which was very late, the
great clock of the castle had long since
sounded the midnight hour, and in crowds
the guests were leaving, when, drawing
Miss Conway aside, her lover whispered in
her ear, "tomorrow I shall be here early,
and now my best beloved, Good-night," and
he pressed her hand warmly.
	The guests were all gone, the lights were
extinguished, Clair and Anna had retired,
everything was quiet only Jane Conway
restless and dissatisfied with herself, paced
up and down her room fretting like a caged
bird, beating against its bars. "Tomorrow
he will come and what does my heart say?
That I would rather a thousand times live
out this poor life alone, than be united to
one I cannot love unreasonable, and yet he
is so noble and so true, why not make this
sacrifice of self for his happiness? he
deserves it from me, and I can devote my
whole life to him, would it be right? I know
not. No man in the wide, wide world will
ever care for me perchance as he does, and
I dread the future. Anna will marry soon
and go to her own home; in time Clair will
bring to the old homestead a fitting bride,
and I should be a pensioner, as it were in
my late uncle's domain. No! I shall not,
will keep my troth, I am resolved, come
what may," and she threw off her apparel
hastily and jumped into bed as though
afraid to meditate longer. Once sound
asleep after the fatigue and worry of the
day, she dreamed such a dream as one sel-
dom forgets.
	"She was in a strange land, everything
was rude and primitive, she was dressed in
dead black from head to foot, and stood in
the midst of a crowd feeling utterly alone;
she gazed afar off and saw the great bound-
less ocean heaving and surging, and she
heard the sobbing and moaning of the sad,
sea waves as she had often heard it when a
child. She strained her eyes in the distance,
and discoverd afar off a speck in the dim
horizon or on the great sea waves; the
others seemed to be all going in the same
direction: she felt her hand grasped with a
warm clasp and, looking down, saw a little
boy, fair haired and sunny-hued, his golden
curls streaming over his velvet collar, he
too was all in black, and her heart smote
within her as if some terrible calamity had
befallen her. She gazed athwart the sea

[Column 3]

again and nearer came the speck dancing
as it were upon the distant waves. The
noise of the crowd upon the shore seemed
shrill and cruel in her ears and she tighten-
ed her hold upon the child's hand, who
looked lovingly into her face and uncon-
sciously she exclaimed "so like Dr. Bland,"
and the boy wept; but she shed no tears,
nor did she try to soothe him, but gazed afar
until the deafening shouts, went up from
the landsmen "ship ahoy! see she comes
this way!" and then she turned and hurried
inland; mechanically along a winding path
till she came upon a cluster of hamlets in
the deep forests unlike any she had ever
seen, rougher and heavier built, one or two
women met her on the way, they were go-
ing towards the seashore, and they spoke
pityingly, but she passed on not heeding
them; all the time the cries and shouts of
the people on the beach were sounding in
her ears, and echoing back from among the
green woods; the child turned often to look
backward, but she kept on her way and en-
tered the low doorway of one of the rude
cabins seemingly to rest for she felt very
weary; the child begged her to go back to
the shore to see the ship, and finally she
rose and followed the little child, who hast-
ened towards the sea; the people nodded
pleasantly and some saluted her gallantly,
one or two dark-skinned and warrior-like
in stature and equipments, such as she
never remembered having seen before, spoke
kindly and patted the lad's head, though
their faces were painted and they were be-
decked with feathers, beads and the fur of
animals; she recalled having read of such
people in the old, old books; she must have
lingered long away in that hut in the forest
she thought, for the ship had landed, and
putting up her hand to shade her eyes, for
she was dazzled, she saw coming ashore,
and questioning the by-standers as he came
Rob Harrison; but he was much older,
though she knew him at a glance, and
blushing she turned to fly from him, but
the boy was not at her side and she felt she
must not lose him; while she hesitated, the
stranger had overtaken her,and without ask-
ing, kissed her there upon the highway,
the crowd bustling around them; the boy
was there too and when the man found ut-
terance he said, "where is my cousin An-
na?" So shocked was she to hear a familiar
voice among strangers, that she woke,
dreaming that she was sobbing upon the
bosom of this strange man from whom she
had been so many years separated; the great
clock was striking and her own maid stand-
ing over her in bewilderment, for she was
really sobbing in her sleep.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


MRS. BELLE C. JOHNSON is editor of the
Salem (Ill.) Republican.
	MISS ZELIA NUTTALL, of San Francisco,
is making her mark as an anthropologist.
Just now she is in Dresden, Germany,
where she has a fine collection of books on
Mexico. She is remarkably well-informed
in Aztec history and arts. In the last num-
ber of the “Internationales Archivfur Eth-
nographic" she publishes an illustrated
article upon the feather shields of Mexico.
In a recent visit to Florence, Italy, Miss
Nuttall discovered in the library an Aztec
manuscript with pictures. It turned out to
be a treatise upon dress and ornament, and
contains a text in Spanish. This, reprinted
in facsimile with critical notes and an
English translation, Miss Nuttall will pre-
sent at the next Congress in October.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO THE NIGHT.

As I enter the shadowy portals of night,
	To stray in her solitude vast,
Pale memory whispers a vanished delight
	And summons a shade from the past.

Lo! my Marguerite plays: the sweet passion and
		skill
	That we loved speak again in her art.
How the strains of her violin sound, at her will
	Like the chords of a human heart.

It is only a dream, such as travelers say
	Thirst gives in the lands of the sun;
And the sad, sweet face and the form pass away—
	The music and glory are done!

I call on my love in grief's passionate words,
	If only one moment to stay;
But all that I hear is the twitter of birds
	That wake in the morning gray.

Where the far distant Alps seem a cloudland of
		snow,
	Are a lake, and a valley so fair,
And a sculptured stone, with its record of woe,
	To tell she is sleeping there.
			W. GOW GREGOR in Once a Week.


O, WHERE DOST THOU WANDER?

O, where dost thou wander, and whither hast
	fled,
My friends gather 'round me and say thou art 
	dead;
Tell me what is its meaning, say what have I
	done,
That forsaken I weep in my desolate home?

I tried to be always a dutiful wife,
Was proud of thy love as I was of my life;
How then have I grieved thee, that so soon thou
	hast flown
And left me to carry life's burden alone?

Hear the wail of our children, thy babes and
	mine,
For the love of a father ever they pine;
Oh! Father in heaven give me strength to en-
	dure,
And wisdom to lead them in ways that are pure.

I know thou hast promised the widow to bless,
And will comfort and cherish the fatherless;
Thou hast said to the widow a husband I'll be,
Then Father in mercy look Thou upon me.

Whatever my trials in thee will I trust,
Though sorrows o'erwhelm me I know thou art
just;
And if I will be patient--learn life's lessons well
The peace of thy spirit my bosom shall swell.

Already I feel its sweet influence here;
My husband in spirit I know will be near,
To encourage and cheer me adown my lone way,
Till rent is the vail and I see the bright ray--

Of Glory that gleams from my husband's abode,
And thou hast commanded me--lay down thy
	load;
Henceforth thy pure spirit from earth's anguish is
	free,
Come, and dwell with thy husband eternally.
R. M. F.


DIVINE LOVE.
God is over all, And His tender mercies
are over all His works.” Since He tender-
ly provides for all His creatures He will
certainly care for His children who trust in
Him. All who-live and trust Him will be


free from anxious care, and have every need
supplied through the working of His well
ordered Providence, for “to them that love
God all things work together for good.”
It is God’s care to provide for all who serve
and trust Him. It is our care to maintain
our trust and religious character, casting all
our anxiety upon Him “who taketh care for
us.” The ground of Divine care, and of
our love and trust is that God is our Father,
and that we are His earth born children.
Faithful and affectionate children have no
anxiety concerning their comfort and well
being, which is provided for them by their
careful parents. Through faith and right-
eousness the children of the Heavenly 
Parent may confidently trust the Divine
care and providence. All glory then to
Him who knew whereof He wrought. “All
glory too, to that transmitting power which
brings such sweetness from such bitter
things, good still from evil, bliss from bane,
from weakness strength, from losses gain.”
						L. M. H.


WORSHIP IN OLDEN TIME.
---
	If we could carry ourselves back to those
olden days, and were to approach a New
England village about nine o’clock on Sun-
day morning, we should hear some one beat-
ing a drum, or sounding a horn, or blowing
a conch shell, or possibly ringing a bell to
call people to worship.  If we came nearer
still, we should see a flag waving from a
log-built church or “meetinghouse.” En-
tering the village we should see a strong
fence of stakes around this meetinghouse,
and a sentinel in armor standing near it;
and we should see some of the men, as they
went in, leaving their muskets in his care.
We should, perhaps, see a cannon or two
planted near the meetinghouse; and we
should also see some strange wooden frames
not far off, these being the stock and the
pillory, put there to punish offenders.
Looking at this church we should see that
it had very few glass windows, and that
these had very thick and small panes, dia-
mond-shaped, and set in leaden frames.  We
should observe that the other windows had
oiled paper instead of glass; and we should
see between the windows the heads of
wolves that had been killed and displayed
there during the year.
	If we were to look inside the little church
we should not see the families sitting to-
gether, as now, but they would be dis-
tributed according to age, sex, or rank.  In
those days the old men sat together in one
place in the church, the young men in
another.  The boys all sat on the pulpit
stairs or gallery, with constables to guard
them.  Each of these constables had a wand
with a hare’s foot on one end and a hare’s
tail on the other.  These were to keep the
people awake.  If any woman went to
sleep, the constable touched her on the fore-
head with the hare’s tail; but if a small boy
nodded, he was rapped with the other end
not quite so gently.  No doubt the wand
was often used, for the services were some-
times three or four hours long, the sexton
turning the hourglass before the minister
at the end of every hour.  The only music
consisted of singing by the congregation
from a metrical version of the psalms, called
“The Bay Psalm book.” The whole num-
ber of tunes known to the congregation did
not exceed ten; and few congregations
could go beyond five.  This was the Puritan
form of religious service.  And people were


not allowed to stay at home from it; for
men called tithingmen were sent’ about
town to look for those that were absent.
Men were fined for every unnecessary ab-
sence; and, if they staid away a month to-
gether they might be put into the stocks or
into a wooden cage.—Hearth and Hall.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Baroness Grippenberg, of Finland,
who has organized a women's council in
her native country, writes: "Look out or
you will be left behind by the council of
women who are Fins."
	MISS M. C. TAYLOR, of New Orleans, has
been appointed State librarian of Louisiana,
by Secretary of State T. S. Adams, and has
been in charge of the State Library since
the 10th of August, For four years Miss
Taylor has been assistant librarian of the
State library, Mrs. Cecile Hamilton having
been librarian for a number of years. Miss
Emma S. Adams, daughter of Hon. T. S.
Adams, is assistant librarian.
	MRS. GOUGAR spoke recently at a largely
attended meeting at Haverstraw, N. Y.
Upon her platform were ten clergymen, in-
cluding the rector of the Episcopalian
Church and Father McGare, of the Roman
Catholic, all voting Prohibitionists. It was
the first time the Reverend Father had ever
heard a woman speak in public, and he ex-
pressed himself as delighted, This world
moves.—Organizer, Indianapolis, Ind.


INTERESTING ITEM.

	WE have received the following notice from
Utah County which shows the women of that
County are wide awake in the interest of the
Utah Silk Exhibit in the World’s Fair. 
PROVO CITY Sept. 14, 1892
Editor EXPONENT: 
	We desire to inform all those having cocoons to
reel that we have engaged the services of a com-
petent reeler. Those wishing cocoons worked up
can confer with the President of the Silk Associa-
tion.
	Also wish to state that we are having a number
of dress goods woven at the Provo Mill and we
are about to make a Silk Flag for the World’s
Fair also a Silk Shawl and other minor articles.
M. A. TILL, Pres. U. C. S. A.
MATILDA OLSEN, Sec.


FRIDAY AND THE EAIR.
From the Washington Post. 
	It was on Friday that Columbus set sail from
Palos, Friday he first saw the new world, Friday
he reached Palos on his return, the 400th anni-
versary of the discovery falls on Friday, and on
Friday this country was Christened after Americus
Vespucius, the Florentine discoverer.—Omaha
Bee.
	It was on Friday that congress passed the bill
providing for the World's Columbian exhibition,
the bill was signed by the president on Friday,
on Friday congress determined in favor of
Chicago as the place for holding the said exhibi-
tion, on Friday the committee agreed to report
the five-million loan bill to the house, on Friday
the loan was incorporated in the sundry civil bill
on Friday the “Durborow bill” was introduced,
amended so as to make a gift of $2,500,000 to the
exhibition instead of a loan of $5,000,000, on Fri-
day the gift bill passed both houses, and was
signed by the president on Friday.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, --Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 15, 1892.


AT HOME AGAIN.

	AFTER an absence of four weeks from our post
of duty, trying to rest and recuperate as well as
visit, we returned home to assume the every day
work of life. Many changes have taken place
during that time some that were very sad; a be-
loved baby grandchild had been called home,
though perfectly well when we went away, and
we were unable to reach here in time to see her
sweet face once more; how little we know when
parting from friends for only a short time what
may transpire ere we meet again. While away
we did not send home sufficient copy to get the
paper of September 15, out on time and therefore
must ask our patrons to forgive the delay. In
our next issue we will publish some notices
which ought to have appeared here, viz: the
death of the venerable and able woman Ernestine
L. Rose and also that of Geo. Wm. Curtis,
another Apostle of the Woman's cause.
	We also hoped to have made some notes of the
work Mr. Edmund Russell is doing in his particu-
lar line in Salt Lake City, of which we were unin-
formed until after our return home; having an-
ticipated his being already in San Francisco,
whither he intends to go about the first of
October. Really there are so many things that
deserve special mention and there is so little
space in a small journal that one cannot do
justice, but we shall hope to make some good
notes for October 1, which will soon be here, and
also the Conference and the Territorial Fair
which brings many people consequently im-
portant news and business to the City.
	The Woman's Department of the World's Fair
have been holding meetings and making some
progress in the work of organizing and distribut-
ing information, circulars etc. Abroad in the
world things do seem to be hurrying on to a cli-
max and events significant of momentous
changes are transpiring. Prophecies of the
Scriptures and of modern prophets are being
rapidly fulfilled so that—"He that runneth may
read."
	The Convention of the Pacific Coast Woman's
Press Association will be held in San Francisco
Sept. 21, 22, and 23. Miss G. L. Brown of this
City has gone there to attend its sessions, we too
had hoped to go but were disappointed at the
last moment, in fact there is too much to do at
home.


BABY ELEANOR.
	SAD indeed is the sudden death of a little child
even though all know who read the Scriptures
aright that “Of such is the kingdom of heaven.”
Fair and sweet and beautiful was the little
darling of whom we write. Intelligent beyond her
age, sprightly in every action, winning and attrac-


tive in manner and expression, she was endeared
to all and had entwined herself so closely about
the hearts of her parents and little brothers and
sisters, that her departure must indeed leave an
aching void in the previously complete and happy
household.
‘‘There is no flock, however watched and tended,
But one dead lamb is there!
There is no fireside, howsoe’er defended,
But has one vacant chair.”
	Eleanor Adey Cannon, infant daughter of John
Q. and Annie Wells Cannon, was born in Ogden,
January 24, 1891, and died at the family residence
there August 29, 1892 at the age of one year,
seven months and five days.
	The little one’s illness which was pronounced
cerebral spinal menengetis only lasted two days
and on the morning of the third about seven
o’clock she fell asleep to waken no more until
the resurrection morn. The father, mother and
little brothers and sisters were with the dying
babe who breathed her last in the fond mother’s
arms. Never was a little one more tenderly be-
loved; all that love and constant care and atten-
tion could bestow she received during her brief
stay here. But God knew best and “He giveth
and He taketh away.”
	Friends were near with kind words and loving
hearts to do all in their power for those so sorely
bereaved. Gifts of flowers brought with tender
messages and everything that affection could
suggest.
	Wednesday morning August 31, the immediate
family with relatives and friends,bringing the little
casket with them came to this City in a special 
car; at the depot here they were met by Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon and the other relatives
of both families, Cannon and Wells, and the pro-
cession proceeded to the cemetery, where the
funeral services were held in the open air.
Apostle Abraham H. Cannon having charge. A
quartette of young men led by J. D. Spencer sang
		“I need thee every hour,” etc.
After the singing which was heavenly, Bishop O.
F. Whitney made appropriate remarks express-
ing tenderest sympathy for the sorrowing rela-
tives and eloquently portraying the light and 
glory of the life beyond.
	The quartette then rendered the beautiful
hymn,
		“Shall we meet beyond the river” etc.
	Apostle Abraham H. Cannon tendered thanks
to all who had been helpful and kind during this
time of grief and affliction, and President Joseph
E. Taylor offered up a fervent prayer dedicating
and consecrating the ground,then the white casket
containing the body of little Eleanor was laid in 
the grave.
	The floral offerings were numerous and of the
choicest varieties of flowers, and beautifully ar-
ranged, in almost every form, stars, wreaths,
crosses, baskets, pillows, gates ajar, bouquets
and loose flowers, not a single spot that was not
covered with these emblems of purity.
Sweetly sleep thou little darling,
Angels sing thy lullaby,
Gentle vespers softly breathing
Of the sweeter bye and bye.


[Column 1]

﻿PINES, MINES AND STAGE LINES.

	FROM Wallace, Idaho, to Murray the County
seat of Shoshone County, twenty-two miles
distant by stage line is a most romantic drive and
positively delightful, if one has no nerves, or is
utterly destitute of fear. The mountains rise to
a stupendous height, and the road winds round
and round from one mountain to another passing
through deep ravines meanwhile, until at times
on the route you may gaze backward on four
roads or parts of the same road over which the
stage has passed. Those accustomed to the
drive think very little of the danger, and chat

[Column 2]

and laugh and discuss politics, or the live ques-
tion of the recent Strikes as though they were
traversing the safest route in the world.
	Talking of Strikes reminds the writer of the
present status of the troubles and the conditions
as existing on the ground, the U. S. Soldiers and
officers who have been ordered to the scene of
the late riot and who they are etc. The com-
panies were called from Ft. Keogh, Ft. Sherman,
Missoula, Spokane and Vancouver, and among
them were some officers who had been stationed
at Ft. Douglas in days gone by, and knew Utah
and some of her people well.
	We met in Wallace, Captain W. W. Mc'Cam-
mon a most polished gentleman and with
scholarly attainments, who remembered dis-
tinctly Bishop John Sharp, Captain Hooper,
Horace S. Eldredge, Esquire, the Hon. Wm.
Jennings and other leading men, and spoke kind-
ly of old friends and acquaintances in Salt Lake
City, asked particularly after Mrs. Jennings and
the daughters, also the Hooper girls and some
others. Leiut. Patterson was another of the
officers who had pleasant recollections of Salt
Lake City, and we met also two or three young
Leiutenants who recently entered the service at
Vancouver, and Ft. Sherman who knew one of
our boys now at West Point, "Brie," Briant S.
Wells. The ladies at Wallace have taken con-
siderable pride in entertaining the military, and
have we believe made their sojourn less tedious
at any rate than it would otherwise have been.
	Of the camp at Wallace and the hospitable
people we will have more to say later on, but in
this article we were describing the stage line to
Murray and the appearance of the country, which
is very like in many respects, dear old New Eng-
land, the pine woods are just as fragrant, and the
hemlock boughs as gracefully drooping, and the
ferns very similar, though the mountains are
higher and the newness of the whole, strikes one
as entirely at variance with the well-worn roads,
and hard trodden pathways, through the Eastern
woods. Then again the miners cabins and min-
ing tunnels are totally unlike anything in the
East; how men have the courage and diligence
to drill the solid rock as they do in these places
and invent ways and means and put in machinery,
blast and drill in these mountain regions, and
bring to the surface the silver and gold in such
rich quantities, is indeed wonderful. A great
deal of precious metal has been taken from this
part of the country known as the Coeur D'Alene's
and still the miners are prospecting and delving
into the mountain sides, and the supply seems to
be sufficient to keep a large number of men con-
stantly employed at a fair per centage for their
labor.
	To say the scenery is grandly picturesque does
not half express its beauty and therefore we
leave it to the imagination, and content ourselves
with telling some features of the landscape, and
the sentiment of lofty grandeur it inspires.
	After passing some way side towns and an at-
tempt at farming here and there, in a turn of the
road to your right is Carbon Centre; this place is
named we believe for a prospect of carbon which
proved false, but more generally known as "Kitty
Kavanagh ranch." There is a log house, com-
fortable looking, a barn and shed etc., a sort of
clearing, in what has the appearance of a strip of
meadow; a garden and field well tilled, cows,
pigs and chickens, horses too, we were told, and
the owner and proprietor who has established
herself in this lonely place and actually made
these improvements is a youngish unmarried
woman. She was born in Ireland, but has taken
out naturalization papers in Idaho and holds
legal possession of her property; knows how to
defend herself in her castle in the woods, and is
not afraid of anything. She owns some mines
too, that she has discovered herself, and works
sufficiently to hold them securely.


[Column 1]
Think of prohibiting a woman, with such pluck
energy and ability to maintain herself in the
heart of a wilderness, from being a full-fledged
citizen even to the franchise. She buys and sells
sows and reaps, plants and gathers her own
sheaves of wheat and of corn, raises her potatoes,
works her own mines, pays her taxes the same as
any man would do, but has not the legal right to
say who shall make the assessments on her
property, or what disposal shall be made of the
accumulation of taxes from her hardly earned
property. Such a woman it would seem in
justice to her courage, prudence and economy,
should have due consideration for the example
she has given to men in that locality. Her place
is a picture, a pastoral scene in the great wilder-
ness mountain country, we saw her one morning
standing near her cabin, clad in garments such as
another woman might wear, white basque, and
skirt of some brown material, feeding her brood
of chickens, and this little incident in itself having
heard something of her strange surroundings and
past history, gave a certain charm to the whole
affair, that was like an ancient tale, and our
thoughts went back to Hagar in the desert, and
we felt how much women had risen in dignity
and self-help since that day.
   A pretty romance containing much truth, and
delineation of character might be woven out of
this wonderful and mysterious character, who has
crossed the great ocean and the wide expanse of
land from the broad Atlantic into the Rocky
mountains and further still the land bordering on
or near the Pacific, plunged into the very depths
of the wilderness where bears, wolves, coyotes,
and savages abound, apparently without fear,
trusting perchance, or it may be rebellious and
defiant, who knoweth? Here is a problem to be
solved, a woman capable of living isolated from
human society, in voluntary solitude, apart from
the world, such an one must be a rare type, an
anomaly. It would be a pity if she should die, with-
out its being known,what has caused this peculiar
and unusual mode of life. She looks like other
women, she talks well, is kind-hearted, gives food
and shelter to the weary traveler and wayfarer,
when he is hungry or benighted; is somewhat
shrewd in the management of her property and
estate. She has undoubtedly deliberately chosen
this sort of life.
   One finds many things in this wild mountain
country widely different from the ideas previously
entertained. For instance one is apt to think,
that the people living so far removed from large
cities would be uncouth in manner, and not
versed in the etiquette of society of modern
times, in fact ignorant and uneducated for the
main part. Travelers and visitors here however,
soon find to their astonishment, that many of the
people gathered into these vales in the moun-
tains, are people of refinement and culture; they
have come here for health or for wealth, and
sometimes, linger because they love the country
and the associations they have formed here.
Hospitable to a degree unsurpassed in any lo-
cality,punctilious in respect to the little amenities
and courtesies of life.
Murray is no quite so flourishing apparently
as when we were here three years ago, but we
found some of the same people who were so pro-
fuse in their attentions then, still living here and
others had gone, some changes in family rela-
tions that were sad and surprising, but the beauty
of the pines and woodland walks was unchanged.
The pines murmured and sighed as sweetly and
pathetically as ever, and the nooks and dells in
the deep recesses or ravines, were as romantic
and fairy like. The shrubbery that gave the
most gorgeous effect to the scenery was the
beautiful mountain ash laden with great clusters
of scarlet berries, and these were set off and con-
trasted by the gracefully bending elderberry
bushes, that drooped laden with rich clusters of

[Column 2]
purple fruit; snowberries in great abundance,
gave a softening tone to the vivid colors and the
pretty hair-bells hung their dainty heads in all
sorts of rough places with a welcome sweetness
that mingled with the odor of pine and hemlock
wafting fresh fragrance through the ambient air.
   One cannot help a certain sense of restfulness
in these vast solitudes of nature, and thoughts
and memories are spontaneously awakened that
have been dormant in the soul for years, per-
chance for ages, who can tell? Truly as the im-
mortal Byron has said:
   “There is a pleasure in the pathless woods.”
Solitude hath its charms for a little season, the
murmuring pines however have voices that
sometimes seem almost human, they sing to us
the weirdest melodies, and one of imaginative
temperament could well fancy wood-nymphs in-
habiting these sequetered and lonely haunts in
the mountain wilds and fastnesses, where human
feet have scarce trod for lo, these many years,
save the wild red man, who bounded stealthily
through the woods in pursuit of game; the
woods resound now and then with the echoing
blasts of the miners fuse of powder and dynamite,
the mountains in places are being tunnelled and
the beautiful forests cut away that the gold and
the silver may be quarried through veins of min-
eral from the heart and bowels of these solid and
stupendous mountains, that men may grow rich
and prosperous in the earth, may build great
cities and carry out the discoveries of arts and
sciences brought to light in this age of invention
and enterprise.
   In our next we shall give a description of a trip
to the Gem mine, and other interesting incidents
of our visit to this country of pines and mines.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City on Friday, September
23, meetings commencing at 10 a. m., and at 2 p.
m., as usual. Officers from all the branches of the
Society in the county are urgently requested to
come, that there may be a fair representation of
the work with its growth, development and pro-
gress temporally and spiritually.


[Column 1]

JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER.

	THE distinguished New England Quaker Poet,
J. G. Whittier, departed this life Sept. 7, 1892.
Deceased was born Dec. 17, 1807 and was in his
85th year at the time of his passing away. Per-
haps there has not been an American writer so
near to the hearts of the people as this beloved
and illustrious poet and patriot. Certainly his
heart overflowed with love of all good and noble
and humane work for the uplifting of the human
family.
	The greatest poets America has produced,
Bryant, Longfellow and Whittier, are gone now
and who shall take their places? To be sure the
works they have produced are living still and
will be as long as American literature survives,
but they are gone to the higher life beyond.
	The great, noble and grand labors of Mr.
Whittier in the anti-slavery movement the active
part he performed during those early days when
anti-slavery was very unpopular, are worthy the
proudest recognition by all true lovers of liberty.
	Mr. Whittier was for forty years one of the
most staunch, firm and ablest friends of the cause
of woman suffrage that the country has produced.
At the time of his death he was Vice-President
of the Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion.
	Recently Mr. Whittier made the following
emphatic declaration so says the Woman's
Journal: "For forty years I have not hesitated to

[Column 2]

declare my conviction that justice and fair deal-
ing, and the democratic principles of our govern-
ment, demand equal rights and privileges of
citizenship, irrespective of sex. I have not been
able to see any good reasons for denying the
ballot to women."
	Here is another very forcible expression of Mr.
Whittier's on this subject. "A prophecy of your
triumph at no distant day is in the air; your op-
ponents feel it and believe it. They know that
yours is a gaining and theirs a losing cause.
You can afford in your consciousness of right to
be as calm and courteous as the Archangel
Michael, who we are told in Scripture, in his
controversy with Satan himself, did not bring a
railing accusation against him."
	Although the death of this illustrious poet,
patriot and Christian casts a shadow over those
who loved him, yet his death was simply beauti-
ful. The passing from this dark and benighted
world into the light of eternal day, with such a
record as he had made must have been a triumph.
	It was our good fortune in the winter of 1886 to
meet the venerable gentleman and poet Mr.
Whittier at his own, old home in Amesbury.
Some interesting items of that visit were pub-
lished in the EXPONENT after our return home,
but we have never felt that we could give expres-
sion in words to the enjoyment of that day.
	We conversed together like familiar friends.
It was a very cold wintry day, the wind blew
fiecely outside, and no other visitors ventured
out, therefore there was a better opportunity for
talking. Mr. Whittier informed the writer it was
the first time he had seen a "Mormon" woman,
and he seemed to take a special interest in in-
quiring concerning our faith and practises, in the
most kindly manner. We talked of woman suf-
frage and he expressed then and there his im-
plicit faith in the principle of equality of sex.
Poets and poetry were topics alluded to and he
asked several questions regarding some of
our writers of whom he had heard notably
Eliza R. Snow and Parley P. Pratt. Very deli-
cately he put the question 'And have I not heard
that you sometimes write verses as well as edit a
paper?" The question led us farther on and on
and finally when about to say good-bye after he
had given a picture of his room and one or two
other remembrances, he so insisted on our re-
maining and dining with him that it would have
been positively rude to refuse.
	His voice was sympathetic, his manner courtly
and tender, his words well-chosen and impres-
sive Altogether he was decidedly charming in
appearance and bearing.
	Among the precious relics stored away by the
writer is a letter from this renowned author and
poet which is to be carefully preserved and
handed down to our children and grand-children.
	With the name and fame of the poet Whittier
are associated many illustrious heroes of the
time, nearly all of whom went on before him.
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, James
Russell Lowell, Lucretia Mott and only re-
cently George William Curtis, and Ernstine L.
Rose. The three during this month were
George William Curtis, John G. Whittier and
Ernstine L. Rose.
	Oliver Wendell Holmes for so many years his
true and well-tried friend must feel bereft in-
deed. Among this class of men who have not
been mentioned here one remembers of the de-
parted N. P. Willis, Bayard Taylor, Walt Whit-
man, Henry Ward Beecher and others, gone
but not forgotten.
	The following poem was written by Mr. Whit-
tier a very short time before his death to his dear
and life-long friend Oliver Wendell Holmes.

Among the thousands who with hail and cheer
	Will welcome thy new year,
How few of all have passed, as thou and I,
	So many milestones by!


We have grown old together; we have seen,
Our youth and age between.
Two generations leave us, and today
We with the third hold way.
Loving and loved. If thought must backward
run
To those who, one by one,
in the great silence and the dark beyond
Vanished with farewells fond,
Unseen, not lost; our grateful memories still
Their vacant places fill.
And, with the full-voiced greeting of new friends,
A tenderer whisper blends.
Linked close in a pathetic brotherhood
Of mingled ill and good,
Of joy and grief, of grandeur and of shame,
For pity more than blame—
The gift is thine the weary world to make
More cheerful for thy sake,
Soothing the ears its Miserere pains,
With the old Hellenic strains.
Lighting the sullen face of discontent
With smiles for blessings sent.
Enough of selfish wailing has been had,
Thank God! for notes more glad.
Life is indeed no holiday; therein
Are want, and woe, and sin,
Death and its nameless fears, and over all
Our pitying tears must fall.
Thy hand, old friend! the service of our days,
in differing moods and ways,
May prove to those who follow in our train
Not valueless nor vain.
Far off, and faint as echoes of a dream,
The songs of boyhood seem,
Yet on our autumn boughs, unflown with spring,
The evening thrushes sing.
The hour draws near, howe’er delayed and late,
When at the Eternal Gate
We leave the words and works we call our own, 
And lift void hands alone
For love to fill. Our nakedness of soul
Brings to that Gate no toll;
Giftless we come to him, who all things gives,
And live because He lives.
—Atlantic Monthly, for September.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.

	AN acute observer of personal growth has said
that in five years the three most prominent wo-
men in this country would be Mrs. William C.
Whitney, Mrs. Potter Palmer and Mrs. May
Wright Sewall. The news of Mrs. Sewall's
triumphs abroad this summer which come to us
through exchanges copied from foreign papers
would seem to confirm such a prophecy at least
as far as her part of it is concerned. Rarely has
an American woman been so feted. Receptions
were given her in all the leading cities of
Germany and her visit with the Empress
Frederick will do much for the cause of woman.
In a long conversation the Empress expressed
the deepest interest in the plans of the National
and International Council of Women and also in
the plans for the womens congresses at the
World's Fair. Her Majesty requested Mrs. Sewall
to continue in correspondence with her.
	This success was repeated in Brussels and
Paris, Mrs. Sewall lecturing in both French and
German. Her portrait was published in "Le 
Monde Illustre," and interviews and portraits in
more than sixty French papers. This pen-
portrait is from the Paris Figaro.--"Among the
many guests of distinction Paris counts in this
moment--Mm. May Wright Sewall one of the
most distinguished women of the United States--
une belle personne, un visage sympathique, encadre
d' une chevelure d' un blanc de neige. One must
not believe that Mrs. Sewall partakes in the 
question of 'rights,' of those exaggerated ideas
which, in France and elsewhere, would for
example, make masculine the vestments and
suppress those thousand graces which form the


parure of a woman and give her her greatest
charm. Far from this Mm. Sewall is fort
recherchee in her toilettes,un bein coquette meme."
E.


DEATH OF A SWEET CHILD.

Dear Aunt Em:
   May I tell your readers about a little girl whose
loving ways and sweet disposition endeared her
to all who became acquainted with her?
   Grace Victoria, daughter of Thomas G. and
Jane Batt Winn, was born of Smithfield, Cache
County, on the 29th of February, 1884. Her
home was in Smithfield until the spring of 1890,
since which time, with her mother and two
brothers, she has lived in Salt Lake City, until
her death, which occurred on the morning of
August 4, 1892.
   Little Grace had been a great sufferer, for more
than a year from the effects of scarlet fever.
These were rheumatism, and then dropsy and
disease of the heart, which rendered her little
life a burden instead of the joyous, happy time
generally known to childhood. Yet she was so
patient, and usually so cheerful that it was very
outching to watch or listen to her.
   Often, she would request those who were
around her to sing for her; and at the time when
her last breath was drawn, they were singing her
favorite hymn, "O! my Father, Thou that
dwellest," she opened her eyes for a moment and
smiled upon her friends, last of all, her mother,
then closed them as if in peaceful sleep.
   She loved her Sunday School and Primary As-
sociation very much, and so won the hearts of
her little associates of the 11th Ward, (where she
had lived most of the time since coming to the
City,) that every attention they could bestow
upon their suffering friend was gladly given by
the little girls. At her funeral, members of the
Primary of the 11th Ward and their President,
Sister Louie Felt, with her Counselors, sang the
sweet hymns of peace and rest Gracie had loved
so much in life. Six of the little girls were also
the pall bearers. The little white coffin was
covered with lovely flowers; one beautiful white
floral pillow, bearing in its center in purple
blossoms, the sweet name, "Gracie," was pre-
sented by the Primary to which she had belonged
and will be preserved as a precious memento by
the sorrowing mother and little brothers.
   The services were conducted by Bishop Robert
Morris of the 11th Ward. Very consoling and in-
structive words were spoken by Elders Wm. W.
Salmon, L. W. Richards, J. H. Felt, E. J. Brooks,
and Bishop Morris. Many friends were in attend-
ance from different wards. At the grave, the
dedicatory prayer was offered by Elder Joseph H.
Felt. Then "O! my Father Thou that dwellest,"
was sung; and ittle Gracie's remains were left to
the sweet repose of the pure and innocent.
	LOUISA.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

PANGUITCH.

Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
   Dear Sister: Our annual conference con-
vened August 3, agreeable to appointment,
had a very good attendance of both home
and visiting sisters.
   After singing, Patriarch J. L. Heywood
opened the meeting services with Prayer.
Hymn sang "Lord we come before thee 
now." President Barbara Myers made a 
few opening remarks, felt thankful for this 
opportunity of meeting again in this 
capacity, also for the visit of the sisters from 
Salt Lake City.  Would like to hear the 
[Column 2]
reports from the different branches of the 
Society in the Stake. 
Counselor M. B. Heywood of Panguitch 
was sorry the President was unable to at-
tend through sickness, so it became her
duty to represent the Society hoped to be 
able to do it truthfully and satisfactorily,
could say that the Society was alive and do-
ing a little, out of one hundred and fifteen 
names enrolled had an average attendance 
of about twenty, just a few who kept the
Society along, felt that there was a good 
spirit among the sisters and that the Society 
was a blessing.
   Sister Heaps of Escalanta reported their 
Society in a very fair condition, was pleased 
to meet with the sisters again, as it was six-
teen years since she moved away. 
Sister Isabella King reported the King-
ston, had but eight members, consequently 
did but little, still felt blessed in being or-
ganized. 
Sister Ruby reported Circle Ville, had 
thirty members enrolled and an average at-
tendance of eight, sometimes felt almost
discouraged in trying to keep up the meet-
ings. 
   Sister Esther King reported Marion, had 
thirty members enrolled, but were badly 
scattered, mostly living on ranches, all 
seemed to feel well and willing to attend 
when possible.
   Sister Elizabeth Howard of Salt Lake 
City was introduced and addressed the con-
ference, regretted that we had not convened
in the Tabernacle owing to the heat and 
crowded room. Hoped every sister repeated 
in her heart the opening prayer, found 
things here about the same as elsewhere, 
said why was it the sisters in Zion would 
neglect their meetings, instructed the teach-
ers upon their duties, and advised them to 
go in humble prayer before going out to 
teach. Spoke at some length upon that 
and other subjects. 
Sister Della Eardley of Salt Lake City,
was next introduced as a representative 
from the Y. L. M. I. A. began her remarks 
by reading the second Hymn, spoke upon 
the subject of prayer; and the record 
we make each day, should study and emu-
late the lives of all great and good men and
women.
   Counselor Sarah P. Crosby spoke a few 
words in explanation of our conference be-
coming annual instead of quarterly as else-
where. Singing, prayer by A. Reding. 
   2 p. m., Sisters convened in the Taber-
nacle, hymn sang "Oh, my Father," 
Prayer by Haden W. Church. Singing 
"Praise ye the Lord." 
Sister Pinney reported the Georgetown 
Society, Sister Lafevre the Cleveland both 
in about the same condition as other
branches.
   Sister Eardley again addressed the con-
ference, spoke at some length upon the evils 
of Sabbath breaking, the word of wisdom,
and the government of children.
   Sister Howard followed with excellent 
instructions on different subjects, referred to 
many evils indulged in by our young people,
one of which was excessive waltzing con-
trary to counsel. Tendered Sister Zina's 
love to the sisters and solicited their faith
and prayers in her behalf, closed with a few 
words in behalf of the EXPONENT and 
Deseret Hospital. 
President J. W. Crosby also spoke of the
evils of Sabbath breaking, and thought the 
sisters in Zion were living their religion 
better than the men.
   President Barbara Myers endorsed what


had been said, and thanked all the sisters
who had come to attend this conference.
Announced a meeting for the Primary
Thursday afternoon.
	Mary Sevy gave notice that the Young
Ladies would meet at 8 o'clock. Hymn
sang "The Spirit of God," benediction by
President J. W. Crosby.

PANGUITCH PRIMARN.
	The Primary children met at 2 p. m.,
and sang "Ere you left your room this
morning," prayer by Patriarch J. L. Hey-
wood, singing "Beautiful Zion built
above."
	Bishop Miller announced the necessity of
reorganizing the Primary as the former
president had moved away. Sister Mary
E. Schow was elected President, Mary Ann
Cheele and Susanna Lambert as Counselors,
Adalaid Tebbs, Secretary.
	Sister Eardley spoke to the children upon
many subjects, dwelt at length upon the
mission of Joseph Smith the Prophet.
	Sister Howard followed with many good
things for the children, long to be remem-
bered.
	Those sisters just elected to office were
requested to remain at the close of the meet-
ing and be set apart. Singing "There is
beauty," benediction by President J. W.
Crosby. Conference adjourned for one
year.
			H. A. CROSBY, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

"WHY SO MANY MEN DO NOT
MARRY.

	SOME thoughts have been suggested to
my mind through reading an article upon
this subject in the May 15th Number of the
Juvenile Instructor, which was written by
the Editor of that valuable magazine. The
result of a conversation with "a young man
of good education, and of an old American
family, who from his position had access to
the best society."
	This young man in conversing upon the
subject which I take for my text, stated it
something after this fashion. "My friends"
he said, "are wealthy, I am welcome to
their houses, I see the luxury with which
they are surrounded and to which their
daughters are accustomed; and however
strongly I might be inclined to marry, my
respect for these young ladies is such that I
have not dared to ask one of them to share
my lot and be my wife. My circumstances
are such that I could not furnish them with
that style of living. I do not want to ask
a girl to step down and occupy an inferior
position. Besides by marrying I would de-
prive myself of advantages, which as a
single man I now enjoy. These considera-
tions restrain me from marrying, and they
restrain many more of my acquaintances."
	The Italics are mine. I like the refresh-
ing candor of this young man upon one
point viz. "that by marrying he would de-
prive himself of advantages which he now
enjoys," and it is my opinion that this is
the main spring, which moves the whole
man-marrying-machinery.
	The Editor further says, "In Utah we
are beginning to experience the same influ-
ences that have operated to bring marriage
into disfavor elsewhere. In view of these
things parents cannot be too careful in
training their daughters, so that they have
correct feelings upon this subject."
	Concerning the condition of affairs in

[Column 2]

Utah, I fully agree with our beloved
brother. Concerning the advice to parents
about the training of their daughters, I feel
sure that he will pardon me when I say,
that according to my views, he might with
great propriety have added and their sons.
	That a spirit of extravagance is rife in
our midst I am only too painfully sensible
of! My heart aches, and so I am sure do
those of many other mothers, who see their
children partaking of the spirit of the world
that has come amongst us, which fosters
extravagance, by which means class dis-
tinctions are brought about, and the pass-
port to "good society" would to a sensible,
deep-thinking observer, seem to consist in
the disposition and ability, to spend for
their own self indulgence, the means which
their fathers and mothers have toiled hard
in their younger days to accumulate in
order to have something laid by for old age
and possible infirmity, in the accumulation
of which, they have probably denied them-
selves of every luxury and possibly the
comforts of life.
	And what is "good society" according to
the general acceptation of the term in our
day?
	Well opinions differ upon this point as
well as upon all others, what goes by that
name, by some, might be termed merely
fashionable society. And while one hold-
ing that opinion might be thought by some
not competent to judge, by another equally
as intelligent they might be thought to be
the very best authority, and so it goes, each
judging from his or her own standpoint to
which they have a perfect right.
	For instance, one set of people endowed
with the gifts of wisdom and knowledge,
industry and economy, of truth and virtue,
charity and benevolence, of temperance,
honesty and integrity, and all the refining
elements, which go to make up a noble
character, might consider that a class of
people possessing these qualities might be
called "good society."
	While yet another set, who devotes its
time to a study of the fashion plates, attend-
ing operas, balls, excursions, promenades,
and amusements of any and every kind in
and out of season, willing and seemingly
determined, to spend the means which
others have earned, scorning to perform the
like labors by which others have earned it,
drinking gambling, debauching, leading the
innocent and unwary astray, might consider
that such only could claim the title of "good
society."
	So each class may set up a standard for
itself, and by its influence draw those to
them who are congenial, but it will be like
a pebble cast into a body of water, which
forms its own circle, but whose extent is
limited, another, cast in the same silent
stream, makes a separate one just as dis-
tinct. While wealth is a mighty factor in
moving the machinery, which carries on
the affairs of this world, I think it is very
much over-estimated as a means of bringing
about happiness.
	This representative "young man" whom
we have been quoting, confesses that by
marrying, he would deprive himself of
many of the advantages which he now en-
joys.
	As I before said, I believe this to be the
main spring of the situation! Let us look
a little more closely into the evidence before
us. For whom does the average young lady
dress, and adorn her person, if it is not for
this same young man? does he not generally
seek for the most fashionably dressed young

[Column 3]

lady at the balls, picnics, etc. Does he not
by his own admission, "visit at the houses
of the rich and fashionable," thereby giving
the impression that, that is what suits him?
also giving the young ladies whom he visits
reason to think that it is "their sweet society"
which he craves, and what more natural
than for them to imagine him to be in love,
and that he wishes to secure love in return
for all time. Are they not justified in
thinking, that if he prefered another's
society than their own, he would seek it?
	As custom, controls in these matters, and
men are free to seek whom they will,
would it not be easy for a man who oc-
cupies a position yeilding only a moderate
salary, to find among the many overworked
women of his world, one whom he could
love for her good qualities, and perhaps
equally as pretty face, fine talents, aud en-
gaging manners as her more fortunate
sister under cultivation, (which he might
be the means of assisting, when she became
his wife) that the world might be better for
his having lived in it.
	When a man confesses, that he dilly
dally's around the rich and fashionable who
would not make him welcome, if he were
not their equal in fortune, he confesses to
about the same kind of a weakness, which
a girl displays when she indulges in ex-
travagance in order to catch him, only to
find that she is blamed for his disinclination
to marry on account of her extravagance.
I am of the opinion that the stock repre-
sented by the aforementioned "young man"
may as well be allowed to run out. There
is already too many of him; and marriages
entered into with such men, generally end
in the Divorce Court.
	But to come to our own children. If
they could be converted to the Gospel, they
would marry.
	Marriage is an institution of so sacred a
nature that it should not be lightly entered
into, and unless young people view it also
in that light, it had better not be under-
taken. It seems to me that the most fre-
quent cause of divorce, lies in the careless-
ness with which people now-a-days enter
into the matrimonial state, either on the
part of one, or both, of the contracting
parties. If a man looks upon marriage as
a divine command, he will be looking for a
whole-souled woman to link her destiny
with his, and if he is worthy of that kind of
a woman he will be preparing to take care
of her and her children.
	But if he is like a great many of the
young men among us today, our sons, who
cannot keep out of debt on a steady salary
of $2.00 per day with no one but them-
selves to keep, a young lady would display
a great deal of courage (my first thought
but I think recklessness a more suitable
term) to join forces with and attempt to
bear and rear a family by such a man, even
if she should get the chance.
	How many of our young ladies today are
working in factories, in families, in stores,
in schools, in dressmaking and millinery
stores, in printing offices, in lawyers offices,
house cleaning, washing and ironing, hair-
dressing, as telephone and telegraph operat-
ers, typewriters, nurses, doctors, lawyers,
and in numerous ways earning their living,
and bid fair from all appearance, to go to their
graves unwed, while the young man with
nearly always a salary double the size of
theirs; and if he is in some professions, three
or four times as large, cannot keep out of
debt and afford to marry.
	As I said before, when our young people


[column 1]
﻿receive the Gospel, they will marry! When
they have learned that in this, the most
important event of their lives they require
the light of the Holy Spirit to guide them,
and humbly come before our Father, will-
ing to be guided, realizing that unions here
should reach into eternity, and proving
their faith by their works, there will no
worldly considerations enter into their cal-
culations upon this subject. But! what is
the mind and will of the Lord? Father
guide me to the one, with whom I can
journey in unity and love, through time
and all eternity.
	Why should people marry, unless they
marry in this spirit? To multiply their
species? To what end? That their offspring
may be destroyed when ripe in iniquity?
When "the sins of the fathers shall be
visited upon the children to the third and
fourth generation?” For has not God re-
vealed in this day and age in which we live,
that he will utterly destroy from off this
land, those who will not serve him and
keep his commandments?
	Our beloved brother further says: “Al-
ready some mothers are indulging in the
fear, and almost seem ready to justify them-
selves in the thought, that if their girls
marry they must go outside of the Church
to find husbands.’’
	“The indulgence in such a thought pre-
pares the way for such a result to be brought
about.”
	My opinion upon this point is, that no
girl who is a Latter-day Saint at heart, and
realizes the position in which she stands,
can for one moment entertain such an idea
as giving herself in marriage to a Gentile!
Indeed it would manifest a weakness, and
a lack of moral courage, which any well-
balanced, Latter-day Saint young lady
would be ashamed of. For if she had any
leaning that way, she would not dare, if
she understood things correctly, descend
from her high position as a Saint of the
most high God, to unite herself with one
who ignores Him! though millions were the
tempting bait.
	My opinion differs considerably from the
young man whom I have before quoted:
“who could not ask a girl to step down and
occupy an inferior position.’’ I think that
though a girl be accustomed to all the luxur-
es which wealth can procure,that when she
is united to a good and noble man, though
he be poor, she is exalted thereby, to an
extent to which she never can attain alone,
then how much more is she raised in the
scale of exaltation by becoming united to
one endowed with the Holy Priesthood;
with its wondrous powers and privileges
which she shares in connection with him.
She steps up from the groveling things of
this earth, and grasps the wealth of the
Gods! Gold is the power of this world.
The Priesthood is the power by which
worlds were formed and created, we have
it; and are the richest people upon the face
of the earth, though we were clothed in
rags! Now as to the mothers who “almost
seem ready to justify themselves in the
thought, that if their girls marry they must
go outside of the Church to find husbands.”
What a sacrifice they are willing to make!
When they left home, father, mother, all
their kindred in many instances; the graves
of their ancestors, and all they held dear in
this world, for the Gospel’s sake and the
hope of eternal life which it held out to
them in that hour, what would they have
said to one who would have tempted them
to have given up their principles for wealth
[column 2]
with a man of the world attached? has the
glitter of gold so blinded them that they
have lost sight of the greater riches of
eternity, if so, then no wonder that their
daughters wander away. If our children
are self-willed and will not be controlled
and we do our duty by them by precept and
example, then our skirts are clear of their
blood; but woe unto us as parents if we do
not our duty; we may revel in luxury, and
pass the time away in idle frivolity and in
pandering to the ways of the world, but the
day of reckoning will come, and God will
require of us the jewels committed to our
care, and woe unto us if we have betrayed
the trust.
	I will close my article with a few words
to the daughters of Zion. Preserve your-
selves in purity from the contaminating in-
fluences of the world, and above all, as I
said in an article which I wrote upon the
subject some years ago, and which I now
reiterate, “make yourselves worthy of the
best and noblest of men and resolve to ac-
cept no other’’ no matter what his social or
financial condition in life, favorable or
otherwise, they will only endure for time,
but see that he possesses those qualities that
will elevate him to the position of an exal-
tation in the celestial kingdom,and you cul-
tivate those qualities that will exalt you to
a place by his side, then you will have
taken a step toward the high destiny to
which you are entitled by being born in
Zion,in the New and Everlasting Covenant
of the Gospel, and if in the providence of
God our Heavenly Father, you may have
to wash for a living, be sure it will not de-
grade you! honest labor can never do that.
What wealth could our elder brother boast
of while he sojourned here upon the earth?
Did He not say, “The foxes have holes, the
birds of the air have nests, but the Son of
Man hath not where to lay his head,” and
are we better than He?
	We have to be tried in all things, that we
may know for ourselves the bitter as well
as the sweet, and hold all things at their
true value; then let us labor to “lay up
treasures in heaven, where moth and rust
doth not corrupt, nor thieves break through
and steal,” that when we shall come into
our inheritance, it may be an everlatsing
one, and we shall know that we have
earned it.
					C. C. R. W.
Salt Lake City, May 20, 1892.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas the Allwise Father has seen fit to re-
move our dear sister, Orelia Hansen Edwards,
from this sphere of action, to a more exalted one
above, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we, her associates in the Relief
Society of the Diaz Ward, do deeply mourn her
loss and that we cherish her memory and emu-
late her many virtues.
	We can truly say that her failings “e’en lean
to virtue’s side.” She manifested that true
charity which flows from a sense of duty, and a
hope in God.
	Resolved, that we sincerely sympathize with
her many friends and colaborers as she was a
faithful laborer in the Manti Temple. Her whole
soul delighted in this work.
	Resolved, that we send a copy of this to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and also place a copy on
our record.
	Farewell dear sister, rest in peace and may the
Lord grant that our future be as bright and hope-
ful as thine.
			LUCY E. JOHNSON, President.
			ANNA JORGENSEN,
			VERONA WHITING,
				Counselors.
			ADA EARL, Secretary.
COLONIA DIAZ, MEXICO, July 20th, 1892.


The best friends are those who stimulate
each other to good.


Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E.
FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.
MRS. M. E. VAN. M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS
RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY
THE
STANDARD GAUGE
RAILWAY!

THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D. C. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J.H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G.F. & P.A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
