VOL. 21.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1892.	NO. 8.


CONTENTS.

	In Rural England—A Story. Woman Suf-
frage Convention—Ada C. Cannon, Sec. A De-
lightful Reception. President Aylesworth on
Suffrage—The Woman's Journal. R. S. Reports.
Miscellaneous. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—The October Conference. Edi-
torial Notes. Alfred Tennyson. From Far
Away—Annie D. Stevens. U. W. P. Club—E. R.
Shipp, Rec. Sec. W. S. A. Springville—E. J.
Haywood, Sec.
	POETRY:—Columbus—Hannah T. King. "The
Eyes That Cannot Weep"—The Woman's Re-
corder. A Poet's Recompense—Sara Louisa
Oberholtzer.


[Column 1]

﻿COLUMBUS.

A moment let me view, as on the disk
Of mental vision—and by the aid of
Memory's mystic gift, the portrayed
History draw of this most patient man!
The majesty of man, in him, behold!—
His stature tall, erect, and powerful,
Ever towering above his fellows;—
He wore a bland, yet thoughtful countenance,
The impress bearing of divinity.
Pale by study, brown'd by sun and sea;
No levity, or carelessness were trac'd
Upon his form or visage, every gesture,
Gravity and deliberation showed.
Among the potentates he stood a king,
Though poverty enwrapt nought could hide,
The majesty, that as a mantle cover'd him;
The prime of life he scarcely had attain'd,
Yet mental care had prematurely bleach'd
His auburn locks, and streaks of grey appeared.
His voice, deep, sonorous, and impressive,
Like one accustomed to profound reflection.
He wore a modest self-respect the aspect
Of a worshiper in audience of Diety.
Columbus!—Yes 'tis he! whose name has rung
Throughout the circumnavigated globe!
Strange! that the Hemisphere exhumed by him,
And placed as "Beacon on a hill" before
The wond'ring world, bears not his noble name!
His great, his noble, mystic, thrilling name!
—Like imbecile ingratitude this seems!
No matter! he has yet a FUTURE—
And among the Harmonies of heaven,
Myriads yet will tune their golden harps
In praise of him; endowed of God, and sent
To bring before the world a hidden land,
And fore-ordained to cradle gospel-fruit;
And be the Nursery of the First-born Church.
Columbus! Blessed genius! Blessed name!
God's instrument for a work stupendous!
Isabella, with all her strong convictions,
Her warm and rational enthusiasm,
And all the whisperings within her heart,
E'en SHE dreamed not the glory of her work!
She saw Earthly Empires and present good,
And in a measure this was true and right,
But little did she dream GOD'S KINGDOM
Was to rise from out the Empire Columbus
Was impelled to seek and resurrect,
"God's KIngdom cometh not with observation."

So the work progressed, the day has dawned.
And light breathes in upon the mystic work
That Isabella and Columbus organized;
And their names shall be enthron'd forever,
And Ferdinand the TRIO shall complete.
Pioneers of untold glory were they!

[Column 2]

God worked with them to impel them on,
Hence nought could daunt them.—On and on
	they went.
And HE, the instrument, was made to bear
Calumny, and scorn, and pinching poverty,
And the imputation "Thou art mad!"
Maniac, dreamer, visionary man!
And thus he lived, assuring them of truth,
Till youth was gone and much of manhood's
	prime
Until a WOMAN God inspired to hear
The message, he for years had yearned to tell;
A regnant queen his helpmeet was to be,
And she his mission nobly did endorse,
And unto death remained his firm ally.

How strange an atheist is man! Show him
A NEW TRUTH, and he will spurn you from his
	door.
He rarely says, reason be THOU my guide,
I will INVESTIGATE, and then decide;
But no, it comes in contact with my views,
My theory, and my understanding;
The "canon's full," and I am also full,
Being fed on such a nutriment. I,
On such a canon, hence, will live and die—
Such was my father's creed, and therefore mine!
Such is the logic of the worldly-wise,
And such the "Daniels" in the judgment seat;
So TRUTH is veil'd till GOD sees fit to tear
The mummy wrapping, and HIS truth declare,
Then those who've crushed conviction rise to
	truth,
And worship her with all the warmth of youth;
And then she'll reign immortal and for aye—
And all her mandates they with joy obey.
			HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]

﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXIV.
	The preparations for the wedding of Dr.
Bland and Miss Conway were completed,
and the nuptials solemnized with due cere-
mony in the little Church at Dunstan Rec-
tory by the young Clergyman who had
only recently taken up his abode in that
diocese the Reverend George R. Hayward,
whose unassuming manner had endeared
him to the people among whom he was call-
ed to labor and as his father had been a
college friend of Dr. Bland's he took a
special interest in the young man, and,
though not a church going man, had really
been instrumental in getting him settled in
that vicinity, as soon as a vacancy had oc-
curred.
	Rob Harrison Esquire was present at the
wedding and gave away the bride, much as
his own heart rebeled against the marriage.
Many such tragedies occur in every day
life, only as in this instance the world are
not aware of the real truth, that lies con-
cealed underneath the mask society wears.
The truth was Rob Harrison loved Jane
Conway, from the moment he first saw her,
plain and unpretending as she appeared in
the eyes of others, he knew and felt the
magnet of her presence and appreciated the
beauties of character that passed unnoticed
by the society in which they moved. He
was loth to acknowledge even to himself
this passion that possessed him, and when he
found her the betrothed of another he was

[Column 2]

shamed within himself that he should be so
weak. After coming to Hilliard Castle he
made the acquaintance of Dr. Bland and
the two became fast friends, so that when
the preliminaries of the marriage were be-
ing arranged and the Doctor innocently
asked Mr. Harrison if he would give away
the bride as she had no near relative who
could be present, he consented at once.
What else could he do? And indeed he
was equal to the occasion for he had already
passed through ordeals that had given him
the strength and courage to suffer and en-
dure without outward sign of grief or
pain.
	Jane Conway in her ignorance of his true
feeling towards her struggled with herself,
and bore her part nobly and when the cere-
mony had been consummated, those who
were present saw only a smiling happy
bride and bridegroom and showered upon
them congratulations thicker than the
flowers which bestrewed their path from the
Church door to the carriage in waiting, for
Dr. Bland bore away his blushing wife to
the old home where anxious relatives were
waiting; the home coming of one long ab-
sent, and to meet and welcome the young
woman so faithfully described in his letters
to relatives in his childhood's home.
Strange indeed to the young wife was the
experience of the next few weeks, the
journey by lumbering coaches, the rural
scenery in the Spring time when all the
hedges were full of blossoms, the quaint
old-fashioned inns or hostelries where they
stopped at night—and the different dialects
of the provincial districts through which
they passed were all new and interesting in
the extreme to the young woman, who had
seen so little of her own country people, ex-
cept those of her own class; now she was
brought in contact with the people, saw
something of the actual condition of the
bone and sinew of those residing in the ru-
ral districts apart from the bustle of City
life and indeed from the manufacturing and
trades-people, cottagers and farmers who
were in a manner self-supporting and as in-
dependent in their way as the gentle folks
who drove in their own carriages with ser-
vants in livery. As a matter of fact these
people were less slaves to custom, and fashion
more their own masters and mistresses
than many of the titled aristocracy, who of-
ten had to resort to all sorts of subterfuges
to keep up appearances.
	These things became clear to this high-
minded young woman especially after she
reached the North of England where the
Doctor's relatives resided, and her husband
explained to her many things connected
with the affairs of the plain,honest,working
people, and she discovered what false views
were entertained by many of the young
folks with whom she had been associated in
regard to those who were really entitled to
greater honor than the aristocracy, who too
often looked down upon them and gave no
true recognition of their rights and privil-
eges as free-born men and women. Dr.
Bland was a great-souled man in all that
concerns humanity, and his wife appreciated
more and more day after day his true no-
bility of character.


[Column one]
	His family were not titled people but
more of the professional struggling class,
his father had been something of an as-
tromoner and mathematician,and his moth-
er the daughter of a clergyman who had held
rather ultra views concerning women and
in various points of doctrine, and the doc-
tor himself had kept outside of all the es-
tablished churches. But of both father and
mother there only remained the mounds in
the Church yard, but there were brothers
and sisters and aunts and cousins, and they
strove with each other to show the most
respectful attention to the newly married
relatives.
	Much as Jane Conway had dreaded the
marriage beforehand she enjoyed her
honeymoon as well as many who anticipate
such great happiness, and acknowledged to
herself, that she was greatly favored to
have such true enjoyment and to be learn-
ing so much of the real lives and homes of
her own country people of whose circum-
stances and feelings she had heretofore been
in such complete ignorance.
	We are often led by an unseen guide into
the ways that seemed marked out for our
destiny, we know not why or wherefore,
but in the sequel we learn it was to give us
experience or to prepare us for an unknown
future. So it seemed with Jane Conway
now Mrs. Bland, though her individuality
was too pronounced ever to be merged into
that of any man however strong the char-
acter of such an one might be, or what rev-
erent love she might cherish for him as a
husband.
	Dr. Bland fully appreciated her strength
of mind and superior intellect and he had
the experience that comes with years, and
the liberal profession and large practice of
a thoroughly educated physician. Possibly
had his wife never met Mr. Harrison she
might have given herself more fully to his
interests, but as it was she did not look be-
yond, except as the peculiar dream she had
just previous to her marriage would come
into her thoughts whatever plans she made.
	After some weeks spent in the country
places among relatives and friends the new-
ly married couple returned to the home
which had been so carefully remodeled.
The family at Hilliard Castle were anxious-
ly looking forward to their arrival and
Lady Anna was in great trouble with her
household affairs and much in need of
sound advice. Like many young house-
keepers Anna Hilliard had betrayed her ig-
norance of management to every one in the
establishment and had dismissed one after
another of those employed until scarcely
one remained of the household that had
been trained by her cousin: her first greet-
ing on the arrival of Mrs. Bland was,
“Cousin Jane there never was such totally
unmanageable set of servants as I have at
the house; everything goes wrong and I
must have some reliable woman to oversee
the place or Mrs. Burke will soon take en-
tire control and put me out.”
	“I am very sorry but until I see how I
am to manage my own affairs, I cannot
think of making suggestions to you, after
that we will see what can be done.”
	“Haven’t you seen some one in the
country suitable for such a position, I sent
you dozens of messages, and I supposed
you would think it important in view of
my ignorance of all such things.”
	“The people I saw were as independent of
such work as we are cousin Anna, and I
assure you that I have learned some very
useful almost invaluable lessons during my

[Column 2]
visit in the country, and it will make my
life broader and better, and I trust I shall
see things with a clearer vision than ever
before, and I trust be of more use in the
world than I would otherwise have been.”
	After having stated these facts to her
cousin Mrs.Bland sought to help her to bring
about a more settled state of affairs in the
castle and to show her the need of firmness
and dignity in the management of those in
her service. All this was beneficial to Lady
Anna though she was not one who could
ever undertake to do a great deal without
substantial help in the way of advice or a
strong arm to lean upon. Her cousin
knew this, and she could see how weak in
any such capacity Maitland Walton would
be, and it made her feel that she must do
whatever she could for her protection.
	In after years Lady Anna found how
much she owed to her cousin’s wise train-
ing and straightforward example.
	Dr. and Mrs. Bland were soon settled in
their own home and everything prospered
with them, but things were not to remain
so tranquil for very long, and within a short
time many events occurred that could not
have been anticipated unless by the spirit of
prophecy. Mrs. Bland felt by a remarkable
intuition that they were soon to leave their
native land yet what was to bring it about
she knew not. Lady Anna was preparing
for her marriage and Lady Walton was al-
most constantly with her helping with
suggestions and advice such as every young
girl needs who has no mother to watch
over her, and both Maitland and Anna were
as happy in the prospect of the union as
possible; the father had reluctantly consent-
ed though he had had several serious quar-
rels with his wife, and at one time threat-
ened to disinherit his son if he had no more
respect for his feelings than to marry into
the family of one who had been his sworn
enemy to the day of his death. A flood of
strange occurrences were sweeping down
like an avalanche upon Hilliard Castle and
those in its vicinity.

WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE CONVEN-
			TION.
	An executive session of the Utah Wo-
man’s Suffrage Association was held Oct.
5th, in the Fourteenth Ward assembly
rooms. Sarah M. Kimball presided. The
meeting was opened by the chaplain,Dr. E.
S. Barney. The minutes of the previous
session were read and accepted. The treas-
urer’s report was read and approved.
	The following Territorial officers were
re-elected; S. M. Kimball, president; E. S.
Richards, first vice president; Ann Groes-
beck,second vice president; C. E. Dye, third
vice president; Nellie Little, Sec. Julia
Taylor, Cor. Sec. Ruth M. Fox, Treas.
E. B. Wells, Ch. of Pub. Com., with L. G.
Richards and R. B Pratt members of that
committee; P. Y. Beatie, chairman of Ex.
Com., May Talmage, Margaret Caine,
Elizabeth McCune, Lydia Pierce and Em-
ma Finch members.
	Sarah M. Kimball, having been appointed
delegate to the Woman’s Convention at the
World’s Fair, was sustained by the ladies
present.
	Utah, Cache, Davis and Salt Lake Coun-
ities were reported by their delegates,
Celestia Reese of Box Elder was also
present.—Afternoon at 2 p. m. a Territorial
Convention was held in the same place and
largely attended. Sarah M. Kimball pre-
sided. Bathsheba W. Smith opened the

[Column three]
meeting with prayer.
	Miss Maude Pratt favored those present
with a song entitled, “Thinking.” The
names of the officers elected at the executive
session were sustained by the convention.
	Letters were read from Cor. Sec. of Nat.
W. S. A. and Nat. Council of Women in
relation to the World’s Fair.
	Addresses were given by E. S. Richards,
E. B. Wells, S. M. Kimball, M. I. Horne
and other ladies present.
			ADA C. CANNON, Sec'y,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A DELIGHTFUL RECEPTION.

	Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie of this City gave
a reception at her residence on West Tem-
ple Oct. 5th in honor of the delegates
to the Ter. W. S. A. convention held in
this city.   *     *     *   Her handsome parlors
were brilliantly lighted, and at 8 p. m. the
guests began to arrive. About fifty ladies
assembled and spent a most delightful even-
ing.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, territorial presi-
dent of the Utah W. S. A., Mrs. Emily S.
Richards, lady president Utah World’s
Fair Commission, Mrs. Electa Bullock,
president Utah County W. S. A., Mrs.
Lucy A. Clark, president Davis County W.
S. A., Miss Celestia Reese, delegate from
Box Elder County W. S. A., Mrs. Hannah
Lapish, president American Fork W. S. A.,
Miss Lizzie Smith, president Kaysville W.
S. A., with many other prominent ladies
interested in woman’s advancement, were
present.
	Delicious refreshments were served to the
guests in the spacious dining hall, the table
being profusely decorated with beautiful
autumn flowers, the suffrage yellow pre-
dominating. Many of the ladies wore their
suffrage badges. Miss Maude May Bab-
cock, teacher of Delsarte and elocution,
favored the company with some choice
selections in her truly artistic, eloquent and
perfectly natural style. The first rendered
was entitled “Woman’s Power,” then
came “Catching the Train’,, humorous, fol-
lowed by the “Negro Mammy Putting
Baby to Sleep." She was heartily applaud-
ed by the appreciative audience. Music
came next, rendered by Hugh Dougall ac-
companied by Mr. Merrill. Altogether the
reception was a perfect success in social en-
joyment and the hostess, Mrs. Beatie as-
sisted by Mrs. Groesbeck, did the honors in
that easy, graceful manner that made all
feel at home with each other.


WOMEN have had equal rights with re-
gard to property from time immemorial
among the Basques, the oldest people in
Europe, whose Country is situated in the
north of Spain along the coast of the Bay
of Biscay.
	THE board of Lady Managers is contem-
plating bringing out for the World's Fair
an encyclopedia of the organizations con-
ducted by women, not only in the United
States, but the world. They are very anx-
ious to secure a full and correct list. Will
the president of every such organization
send to us at once, the name and address of
the organization that she represents? Send
to Helen M. Barker, 409 Rand-McNally
Building, Chicago, Illinois.
	By order of President of the Board of
Lady Managers.
			BERTHA M. H. PALMER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


“THE EYES THAT CANNOT WEEP.”

The saddest eyes are those that cannot weep;
	The loneliest breast the one that sobbeth not;
	The lips and mind that are most parched and
		hot
Are those that cannot pray, and cannot sleep;
It is the silent grief that sinketh deep.
	To weep out sorrow is the common lot,—
	To weep it out and let it be forgot,—
But tears and sobs are after all but cheap.
To weep for worries, frets and trifling cares,
	For toys we've broken and for hopes that were
And fancied woes of passing love affairs;
	But only One can raise the breast of her
Whose hurt for fruitless moans had gone too
		deep.
Pity, O, God, the eyes that cannot weep.
					The Woman's Recorder.


'THE hope of truth grows stronger day by day;
I hear the soul of man around me waking,
Like a great sea, its frozen fetters breaking,
And flinging up to heaven its sunlit spray,
Tossing huge continents in scornful play,
And crushing them, with din of grinding thunder,
That makes old emptiness stare in wonder;
And every hour new signs of promise tell,
That the great soul shall once again be free,
For high, and yet more high, the murmurs swell
Of inward strife for truth and liberty.
								LOWELL.


PRESIDENT AYLESWORTH ON SUF-
			FRAGE.
	At the woman suffrage banquet given during
the recent Mississippi Valley Suffrage Confer-
ence at Des Moines, President Barton O. Ayles-
worth, of Drake University, responded as follows
to the toast, "Attend to the Women."
	"Attend to the women!" If this is not 
assuming authority with a Czar-like vicious-
ness! Not even an invitation—gentle,
persuasive, adroitly leading up to the de-
cisive point, but a stern command! More-
over, the subjects of attention seem to be 
many. Premature age has fallen upon me
like the shadow of a ghost, in my vain at-
tempts to attend to one woman—I had near-
ly said a single woman, but attentions came
easily then, with the myriad of gentleness-
es with which you women have taught us 
we must woo you from the paternal roof. 
	But which women? I still had hope,
vain as it now seems, until your committee
answered, and nothing in the tone of voice
reassured me in the least, "The women 
who do not want to vote." I immediately 
threw up my arms, but not as a menace to
[Column 2]
either the committee or the tabooed women.
I tremblingly stammer my fears: "Who 
shall attend to them? Surely not I." The 
potentates nodded their official heads, and
you beheld me, with my sleeves rolled up
metaphorically, for the fray. But no; the
metaphor is ill-chosen. These are women,
their mode of warfare otherwise. 
	It is true that there are women who do 
not care to vote, just as there are now and 
then anomalous cases who do not even 
wish to be married, much less seek oppor-
tunity. I once knew a woman who thor-
oughly believed in St. Paul's injunction to 
keep silence, and to be duly submissive—
just one. She has been translated. 
	I confess to you that I have but little
patience, with the woman who in this age of
her sex's evolution refuses to evolve. But-
terflies—those lower in the scale of being, 
I mean—do better. From caterpillar to 
chrysalis, they at least passively let nature
do her work, winning each to itself and its
destiny. But some women,like many men, 
how loudly do I confess it, most stubbornly 
resist the influence of this Hugoan age.
	My impatience may arise in part from the
recollection of my mother, whose life went
out from before me ere I could appreciate
her struggle. Twenty-five years ago, in a 
community exceedingly modest so far as 
education was concerned, she both taught
and spoke publicly and in church, where
beetle-browed elders sat in the owl-like
sternness and stupidity of knitted face and 
ill concealed righteous indignation. Gentle
as the "good night" of a baby's tender
mother, womanly in every sense of the 
word, with constancy of affection, that real
nobility of a woman, her endowment for
joint rulership in the affairs of both child-
ren and men; but with it all, a broader
range of learning, self-gotten, than was
possessed by any save one in the entire
community, uplifted on the levels of a 
rational faith—if I were to think anything
less than woman's equality with man in 
every high sense, it would be to give the
lie to every law of heredity and environ-
ment. You are not surprised now at my 
impatience.
	Yet one must always turn philosophical 
when he becomes a student of conditions.
	The abjectest wretchedness of slavery is
its contentment. The most irresistible and
 at the same time the most hurtful slavery is
the sort which comes by caresses rather than 
by blows. A mother could do no crueller
thing than to keep her babe in her arms, or
sustain it at her breast, through four or five
years—could she live so long. Cruel to 
herself as well the child. Her love might
be the motive. But love which kills not 
both lover and beloved has in it always
some reason, some calculation upon the
future, and some equality of companion-
ship.
	Gardens are valuable for nosegays, but
one likes bread oftenest. To make others
kneel is sometimes worthy, but to make 
men rise up and walk beside you, is better.
Stooping to conquer is poor business for an 
American women of any noble sort.
	To enter into a single corner of a man's
great four-square life will not content any
great woman's soul. The woman who can-
not stand at the horizon-centre and see with 
her husband the same distant contour of
possibilities, is no helpmeet in the better
meaning. To make indifferent American 
women feel these truths is the first attention
to be paid them. The indirect method is
the better. Let the women at this board
[Column 3]
to-night be such, in every way of culture
and heart power, as shall first commend and
then win the conviction that the emanci-
pated woman is cleaner, happier, more use-
ful, and far more respected by men and wo-
men alike, than the enslaved, and the surest
part of your work is done. 
	 I have been exceedingly gratified with 
the quality of womanhood in this move-
ment. It gives me the largest hope for its
ultimate success. I have found a grace 
which has a quality not of the drawing-
room alone, as realists say, it has a "tang" 
about it. If you can imagine music with-
out timbre, you will get my idea of the 
forms of polite society into which the life of
sex equality has not yet come. I have
found also a sprightliness of conversation
not born of blushing acknowledgement of
half sincere, and sometimes suggestive, 
flattery, but of much thought and reading.
Moreover, and above all, a moral rigidness
in discerning ethical standards, which 
means a vast deal in this loose age—an ex-
alted concept of righteousness and interde-
pendence.
	All this betokens a listening ear to the 
wailing of the unfortunate, a critical mind
for granting justice in an age which at last
begins to suspect that full justice has not
yet been done those most needing it.
	The direct method, largely temporary, is
to gain, by literature and public and politi-
cal address, the thought of the thoughtless.
Just now no field is more productive than 
good fiction. Turn some of your facile
pens to the novel. Give us more women in 
character whose lives are above petty things
and scornful of hysterical affection, not un-
natural women, but a wholesome realism
to be fonnd already in thousands of homes.
	I sat on a rock beside a mountain brook
this summer, for an hour, watching two
birdlings just fallen from the nest. One
soon developed his jerky little hop into a 
flutter, and then into an awkward short 
flight, in a dizzy circle, back again to his
panting sister tinier than her who merely 
squeaked little half pitiful tones, as in a 
kind of agony she stuggled to do what
the other had so soon learned. I was per-
plexed over her seeming stupidity. The 
braver fledgling, approaching cautiously,
seemed to make a discovery, and with bad-
ly directed little peckings sought to undo
the evil. In the mother-nest, a cord, pro-
bably a very important part of the nest,
had been wound about the helpless bird,
and entangled in its untrained wings.
	I immediately released it from its home
nest meshes, and soon it had out-flown its 
companion.
	I believe in God the Father; in Christ the
ideal man, and the divine educator of men
toward the levels of his own personality; I 
believe in the futnre of the race as the
bright consummation of the Eternal Plan;
therefore, I must and do believe in the 
equality of sex in every vital relation of 
the race. In birth; in life—its woe, and
its happiness; in death, and in the Here-
after.—The Woman's Journal.


We wish to call the attention of our read-
ers and the public at large to the advertis-
ment of Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, who
has reopened her office in this city and is
prepared to attend to calls in her profession.
We take pleasure in making this announce-
ment, as we always do for young women of
our own community who have had energy
and perseverence to make their own way in
this laudable profession.


A POET’S RECOMPENSE.

		SARA LOUISA OBERHOLTZER.

WHEN friendships shout and fan the pile to blaze,
When forks of fame reach up, nor know their
	height;
When tenderness stoops down to gently praise
And what we value most and least to raise
Beyond their equillibrium, we smile.
When censures hurl and blaze is lost to sight,
In the chill bitterness of passing night.
And tenderness becomes a rose of thorns,
Petals and fragrance gone, again, and while,
We all unconscious smile; the same we feel
Errands of song we joyfully fulfill
Are but half ours. A rare and subtle sense
Of what they are; the violets of God’s will,
Is great and all sufficient recompense.
					The Woman's Tribune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	OCTOBER 15, 1892.


THE OCTOBER CONFERENCE.

	THE General Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church which commenced in the large Taber-
nacle in this City Oct. 6, and closed Sunday
afternoon Oct. 9, was certainly one of the most
interesting and instructive Conferences that has
ever been held. The spirit of the teaching and
the manifest power that rested upon the several
speakers, was felt and appreciated by the congre-
gation of Latter day Saints in a manner apparent
to all who were present, and there will doubtless
be an awakening to the sacredness and duties of
the obligations resting upon this people, that will
extend through all the Stakes of Zion. That this
is the most interesting time in the history of the
Church must be the impression of all those who
are watching the signs of the times, when the
greatest events are about to transpire that have
been predicted  by ancient and modern prophets
and Apostles.
	Here at the centre Stake of Zion the most
magnificant sacred edifice that has been reared
for many centuries to the name of the Lord is
nearing its completion, and it would seem only in
keeping with the fact that it is about to be dedi-
cated that those professing to believe in all the
doctrines, principles and ordinances pertaining
to this holy place, should be prepared for so
solemn and momentous an occasion. The people
have had line upon line and precept upon pre-
cept concerning these things, and yet many have
been careless and indifferent to the warning voice
and have preferred to use the means for their own
aggrandizement over which they are only
stewards, instead of the building of Temples or
the spread of truth for the salvation of the world.
Such sermons as were preached at this late Con-
ference are calculated to arouse those who are
desirous of assisting in this great and grand work
and who through other influences have in the
past been negligent or forgetful of the great re-
sponsibility attached to those who have taken
upon themselves the name of Latter-day Saint.
	Many grand and inspiring themes were treated
upon which must be uplifting in their tendency to
those who are faithful and true, and who have
spent their lives and their means in advancing
the cause of righteousness upon the earth. The
meek and humble ones whom our Heavenly
Father delights to own and bless, these were fed
with the bread of life, and for all there was a word
in due season that will not fail to sink deep into
the heart of every attentive listener.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE General Semi-Annual Conference of the
Relief Society convened in the Salt Lake Assem-
bly Hall in this City on Monday, October 10, 1892.
Some special business was transacted in the after


noon session which will be given to our readers
in full in the next issue of the paper.

	THE Territorial Fair which was held in this
City commencing October 4, was very interesting
to all who have the welfare and progress of Utah
and her people at heart, and great pains was
taken by the management to make as fine an
exhibit as possible to give the public an idea of
what can be done by this community for the
World’s Fair next year.

	THE dedication ceremonies of the Columbian
Exposition will take place in Chicago on the 21st
of the present month, and many Utah people
have gone including the National Board of
Lady Managers for Utah and the Presi-
dent of the World’s Fair Commission of ladies
for Utah, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, these ladies
will obtain all the information possible and be
able to diffuse it among those who are working
here, as they will be present at the general meet-
ing called for the National Board of Lady
Managers.

	Mrs. Laura De Force Gordon a lady lecturer
well known throughout the country is now in
Utah speaking in the interest of the Democratic
party. She is an eloquent and forcible speaker
and understands the political condition of the
country at large, as well perhaps as any woman
who is on the lecture platform. She expects to
make a tour through the Territory speaking in
many or all of the counties. We may have
more to say of her work at another time.


[column 1]
			ALFRED TENNYSON.
		POET LAUREATE OF ENGLAND.
	Alfred Tennyson the Poet Laureate of England
(created Lord by Her Majesty Queen Victoria of
Great Britain and Empress of India) departed this
life a little past midnight (the poet's hour) at 1.30
o'clock October 6, 1892; the dispatches state that
he gradually lost his strength, growing weaker
and feebler little by little painlessly until the end
came peacefully as flowed the li e of the passing
soul. Death came as he would have wished it
calmly and without outward disturbance.
	"There was no artificial light in the room; only
the mellow rays of the autumn moon lit up the
chamber in which the dying man lay, and fell
across the bed, bathing him in pure, pellucid
light forming a rembrandtesque background to
the scene. All were silent save the gentle
soughing of the wind through the trees around
the mansion-a fitting requiem for a poet who
sang of the love and beauty of nature. So quietly
did his soul depart that the members of the family
were not aware of the fact till announced by the
attendant physician. Once or twice during the
the night he lifted his eyes to the faces of the
watchers and a peaceful smile played over his
features."
	Lady Tennyson bore up well when all was
over. The poet will be buried in the Poet's
corner of Westminster Abbey next to Browning's.
Dr. Bridge is setting to music Tennyson's beauti-
ful poem, "Crossing the Bar," which the laureate
wrote about a year and a half ago. He intends
the music to be played at the poet's funeral.
Robert Buchanan the poet and dramatist, has
written an obituary poem on the death of Tenny-
son. It concludes with these lines:

Peace to the Knight who kept his vow while
	others slept like sand,
But who shall sing to mortals now of that lost
	fairy land?

Sir Edwin Arnold has also written the follow-
ing beautiful poem:

[column 2]
No moaning of the bar, sail forth strong ship
Into that gloom which has God's face for light,
Not a dirge, but a proud farewell from each fond
	lip,
And praise, abounding praise, and fame's faint
	starlight,
Lamping this tuneful soul to that large noon
Where thou shalt quire with angels. Words of
	woe
Are for the unfulfilled, not thee, whose moon
Of genius sinks full-orbed, glorious, aglow.
No moaning of the bar, musical drifting
Of Time's waves turning to the eternal sea,
Death's soft wind all thy gallant canvass lifting,
And Christ thy pilot to the peace that be.
	
	The Times calls Tennyson the "English Virgil"
on account of his mastery of lofty, graceful and
sonorous verse. Never since Milton it says, has
England heard such stately blank verse as "Idyls
of the King."
	Swinburne will probably be his successor.
	"Lord Tennyson looks fifteen years younger
than before his death. His beard has been care-
fully trimmed and his hands folded over his chest.
A laurel wreath crowns his head and another lies
at his feet. Burning wax tapers lend a subdued
light to the chamber. The Bishop of Winchester
will preach the funeral sermon in Haselmere
Church on Sunday.
	"All the members of the Tennyson family as-
sembled and took their last look at the dead be-
fore the coffin lid was closed and screwed down.
Lady Tennyson was the last to leave the room
and alone in the sacredness of her sorrow she
bade a final adieu.

		THE REMAINS OF THE POET INTERRED.
	"With all honors which the church could be-
stow, in the presence of many eminent men of
letters, statesmen and nobles, the remains of
Tennyson were interred in the Poet's corner at
Westminster Abbey Oct. 12. The Jerusalem
corner contained a mass of rare floral offerings,
including a laurel wreath from the Queen.
	The remains were laid beside those of Brown-
ing.
	The Queen also sent a metallic wreath of laurel
appropriately inscribed . The procession formed
at noon in the Jerusalem chamber; the coffin was
borne on the shoulders of stalwart men. Among
the pall-bearers were Henry White, U. S. lega-
tion secretary, and Lord Salisbury. The mourn-
ers followed the coffin; then the household
servants, representatives of the Queen, and other
royal persons.
	On reaching the chancel, the coffin was set
down at the foot of the altar, and Canon Duck-
worth opened with the service for the dead;
then the choir chanted the 10th psalm. After the
lesson for the day was read, the choir sang
Tennyson's last poem "Silent Voices." The
body was then borne to the Poet's Corner, and,
after further services, was committed to the
grave beside Browning. Benediction was pro-
nounced by the Archbishop of Canterbury."
	Alfred Tennyson was born in the year 1810, at
Somerby, Lincolnshire. The family was a large
one, he being the third. At a very early age he
manifested a talent for writing verse, and pub-
lished in 1827 a volume entitled "Poems of Two
Brothers" the joint production of himself and his
brother Charles. He completed his studies at
Trinity College, Cambridge, and two years after
the poet published "Timbuctoo" for this he re-
ceived the Chancellor's medal. In 1842 the poet
sent forth to the world two Volumes that gave
him the honor of the laurel-crowned songster of
the British realm. Tennyson has really been for
many years the special favorite of many of the
people of both continents.
	At another time we shall be glad to publish
more concerning the poet laureate whom we
ardently admired and whose peotry has touched 
the heart of the writer as much or more than any
other, especially "In Memoriam."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
			FROM FAR AWAY.

		FAGALII, UPOLU, SAMOA,
							Sept. 11, 1892.
Dear EXPONENT Readers:
	As I sit here on this quiet Sabbath day and
listen to the splash and roar of the ocean waves,
my mind involuntarily reverts to a few brief
months ago and in fancy I find myself in one of
your cozy parlors, and would like to tell you
something abont the strange land and curious
people I have seen since leaving Our Valley
Home.
	Sister Hilton and I live together in a comfort-
able little cottage in the village of Fagalii.
	This village—this cottage is the mission home
and usually President Browning and one or two
other elders are there, while the rest of the
brethren are dispersed over the islands in pairs
and live with the natives in their rude peculiar
huts, sleeping on mats spread on the ground, and
eating food which I don't think you would con-
sider at all tempting could you see it when spread
out ready to partake of.
	We have only two church members among the
natives of Fagalii; both women who have em-
braced the Gospel recently and seem to be very
sincere in their convictions. Besides these there
are a number who are very friendly and may join
us in the good cause ere long.
	We visit our friends often and although we are
unable to say much to them, they are ever
pleased to see us and show their love by trying
to make us as comfortable as is possible. Let
me describe one of those visits to you. It oc-
curred a few weeks ago when Sister Fetoai had
been ill for a few days and was hardly yet able to
sit up. She and another old lady were the only
occupants of the house and as they saw Sister
H. and I approaching Fetoai sat up on her mat-
bed and hurriedly put on her mother hubbard
that she might be ready to receive us. We had
learned to walk slowly on nearing a house so as
to give the people time to dress, so we found our
friend looking tidy enough in her calico wrapper
when we entered. A clean mat was spread for
us to sit on, which we accepted and though find-
ing it somewhat difficult tried to sit Samoan
fashion. We inquired about our sister's health
in a few words which had been taught us before
leaving home and which we had been repeating
to ourselves on the way, and when she told us
she was "malolo," we did not know whether she
was better or worse until we went home and got
the interpretation of the word.
	Our stock of words being now exhausted we
remained silent, while a conversation was carried
on between the two women the import of which
we soon guessed, for they began to hunt some-
thing for us to eat. We were not hungry but
could not tell them so and were afraid to refuse
to eat for fear of giving offense so we decided to
try to get down a few bites. The first course
was a ripe bananna each, which we could have
eaten with relish but for the peculiar smell of the
place; next came a piece of baked bread-fruit
and cooked green banannas. All were laid on
the mat before us, and while endeavoring to dis-
pose of the first bananna, we sat gazing at our
table and then at each other and wondering what
we had better do about it. While we wondered
the old lady took a large leaf from a basket in
which we knew some delicacy was hidden, but
oh! how we did hope she would not offer us any
of it. Sister H. said "O dear, let's go" but I did
not see how we could just then so we remained
sitting while she uncovered the dainty viands.
Our stomachs literally turned over at sight of the
mess; it was what the natives call "gau;" I do
not know what it was composed of I'm sure;
something they get from the sea when the tide is
low—a kind of worm I would say—I think if you
were to cut the entrails of a chicken up fine,
[Column 2]
gizzard and contents, craw and all and mix, you
would have something resembling it in appear-
ance and smell—cannot say as to taste for we did
not eat the gau.
	Taking a piece of the bread-fruit in our hands
we took our departure, after thanking them for
their kindness and bidding them "tofa."
	Returning to our home we related the ex-
perience to the brethren, who had a good laugh
at our expense, for such meals are often spread
before them and they are not at a loss to know
how to act either, for they have learned long ago
how to appreciate Samoan hospitality.
	The Samoans prepare many varieties of food
which are altogether unpalatable to us and in
many of their customs and habits are very de-
graded indeed, but while this is a fact it is also
true that there are honest souls among them and
these our faithful elders are diligently seeking to
find.
	We hope to be able to assist a little in the good
work and to this end desire the prayers and faith
of all our good sisters in Zion. One lesson we
are sure will be indelibly impressed upon our
minds if we learn nothing more while we are here, 
and that is to appreciate our homes and their
surroundings when once we are permitted to re-
turn. And not only will we appreciate our
homes but how much will we learn to love and
cherish the dear relatives and friends whom we
have left, after being separated from them for a
season!
	May heaven's richest blessings attend the
sisters in Zion in all their efforts to do good, and
may we all be enabled to fulfill our duties aright
in whatever position we may be placed.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion and her
loving mothers and fair daughters, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
						ANNIE D. STEVENS.


W. S. A. SPRINGV1LLE.

	A MEETING of the Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion held in the Springville meeting house, Sept.
22, 1892. President S. A. Boyer in the chair.
Singing “Come, come away.” Prayer by Mrs.
Straw. Minutes read and approved. President
Boyer said, “We have met to hear and study the
Politcal Status of women, the women of America
are free in every sense except before the law.
Wished to hear from the Ter. Pres., Sarah M.
Kimball. Mrs. Kimball said her presence here
showed her feelings; did not believe in ignorant
votes, thought men were not posted as they
should be. The business of today is for women
to educate themselyes so as when they have the
ballot they may be able to vote for the best good
for the town or city in which they live, for the
Nation, and for the best good for the greatest
number, that all should be able to vote for the
best good of the many. The ideas of the best
and broadest-minded men of today, are that wo-
men should be recognized in politics. As for the
World’s Fair, we should not prepare our costume
or wardrobe, but wait until we see what is de-
cided by the Committee appointed on Dress Re-
form, and if accepted wear it, that is for those
that wish to. She honored those men that upheld
the Constitution in believing all to be free and
equal before the law, and they would be honored
in the future. 
	Mrs. Emily Richards said men and particularly
men reporters scared her, spoke of suffrage being
such a hard name, encouraged women to try and
fit themselves so as to be true companions for
their husbands, would like to see every woman
come here as intelligent beings ready to receive
the ballot, that we should prepare ourselves to
join hands with the women of the world and be
honorably noted as women of Utah. We are an
organized body and should go ahead and work
systematically and on a basis with men, prepare
yourselves for the ballot and you will get it. If
the simple fact of going to the polls and voting is
so degrading, go and help purify them. If wo-
men, as they do, have to earn their own living,
educate them that they may earn it in the most
respectable and beneficial way. Did not believe
in neglecting duties at home, but we forget that
all women do not have homes and families, when
we have it is the family first and then all else, we
can. Turn our social entertainments into some
kind of meeting to instruct ourselves. She urged
all to go to the World’s Fair that could. Was
very well pleased with the organization in Spring-
ville. 
	Song by Miss Nellie Holley, “The Bridge."
Ex-Mayor Booth of Provo, said, President, wo-
men and men.: His impression was, there was a
great deal expected of him but was afraid they
would get disappointed, did not remember when
he was converted to suffrage, but it was before he
ever heard of it, always believed it, and always
advocated it. In April 1882 a state convention
was held in Salt Lake, some of the ladies did ex-
cellent work in committees, thought women
would do much better work now because they
were better posted; believed good results would
come from harmony in Politics as well as the
home. That in 1847 the first laws of Utah
were participated in by woman, and that the wo-
men of Utah were the pioneers in this move of
Suffrage. Thanked the women for saving the
whole Territory from being disfranchised,through
their influence. The true make up of man is
physical, mental, and spiritual. That women are
spiritually man’s superior, that men always excel
in all higher callings, but there are more good


[Column 1]
﻿women. Take well balanced men or women and
they will never slop over and what is so of an in-
dividual is so of a community, and in order to be
well balanced we must cultivate, wherever we
are deficient.
	During the time women voted in Utah, he
never saw any disorderly conduct at the polls,
that of itself is worth thinking of.  The ballot is a
right that all should demand.  It is a right not a
privilege.  When women have this right it will
tend to purge the ballot of its wicked and corrupt
ways.  Believed among the first things granted
would be the right of Suffrage to women. Strike 
out the word "Male" the same as the word
"White" in 1862.  My vote is my property and I
believe in voting as I please and to the best of my
knowledge.  Educate yourselves that you may
know independently of what your husband or 
brother does or says?  not only yourselves but 
your family.  If only one can be educated let it
be the daughters, and they will in turn educate
their families.  Believed in taking an interest in
the World's Fair, also in Dress Reform.  Woman
should not get overturned, but educate in all
things necessary for filling both places, and she
should have a right to control her property and
also her person, that men will have to educate
themselves as well as women on different points.
Trusting all would be interested in this, as a jus
cause.
	Mrs. Kimball was under the impression, if
Bishop Booth would speak it would inspire her
to speak, that this right of Suffrage was going to
be felt more and more in the world.  By and by,
women, through their tact, will do something
but they must be more liberal.  As a class wo-
men are so penurious, that they will give nothing
to help the cause, men will give willingly to help
theirs.  Was pleased with the Association in 
Springville and was pleased to be present, and
each individual could help to make it what it
should be, also said marriage, too often ended
woman's life and education.
	W. H. Kelsey said, this is a great and grand
work, started to ameliorate the sufferings of
humanity, said the first hospital was reared under
the direction and presence of Isabella the
Spanish Queen, spoke of the great good women
had done, and they do not receive one tenth part
the credit that is due them.  Garabaldi's wife
followed him through all the changing scenes
that that remarkable man went through, and in
their days of adversity she used her red skirt and
her white bed spread or counter-pane, and made
a flag which Garabaldi used on his victorious
marches resulting in the Emancipation of the
fair land Italy.  While great honor is due him
surely some credit is due his wife. So far as the
Suffrage is concerned with the stroke of the pen
of Abraham Lincoln, eight millions of the colored
race received their emancipation. The male
portion of which had, over 21 years of age, the
full privilege of political suffrage, no difference if
they can neither read nor write, while double the
number of the Anglo-Saxon race, forming a great
part of this nation, were denied the ballot be-
cause of being females. Speaking of women the
speaker stated, the Almighty in placing us upon 
this earth designed us to be equal, not in the
ascendency, but equal, nothing more.  Women
have brought about many reforms but have re-
ceived little credit for it. Spoke of John
Bunyon's "Pilgrims Progress" a work nearly as
extensively read as the Bible, and that to a great
extent was produced through the sacrifice and
industry of his wife that lived during his impri-
sonment of twelve years.  He also mentioned the
services of Florence Nightingale during the
Crimean war, and also the mother of Napoleon,
how she followed her husband on the battle field
against the French forces, but a short time before
the birth of that great General Napoleon.
	Regreted that all our ladies did not emulate

[Column 2]
our President Mrs. Boyer in becoming better
educated in Civil Government.  A lady who in
connection with her husband can run a business
and raise a family and find time to study Civil
Government and Parliamentary Rules, deserves
great credit. Trusted he would always have a 
kind word for the Suffrage Ladies.
	Mrs. Bullock said when she heard such speak-
ers it enthused her, did not feel to take up the
time, but wanted her political freedom.
	D. C. Johnson felt as though there had been
enough said, had been a suffragist all his lfie,
never could see why a woman was not his or any
other man's equal before the law.  It is an ele-
vation not a degradation to vote, Do you find
any suffragist suffering as the great men who
first spoke in behalf of the colored race?  No.
Women do not be discouraged, in ten years from
this day women throughout the United States,
will have the right of the ballot.
	The President trusted that the benefits of the
day will tend to bring all those interested in the
common welfare of women to the front.  Singing.
Prayer by Mrs. Lapish of american Fork.
	E. J. HAYWOOD, Sec.
	EVENING'S ENTERTIANMENT.
	The parlors of the Boyer House at Springville
were filled with guests the evening after the
day's celebration and a most sociable time of en-
joyment was participated in.  There were present
from Salt Lake City, Sarah M. Kimball Ter..
Pres., Emily S. Richards Vice Pres. W. S. A. and
President of the Utah World's Fair Commission
and Carrie E. Dye also Vice Pres. W. S. A.,
Electa Bullock of Provo, Pres. Utah Co., W. S. A.
and Hannah Lapish, Pres American Fork W.
S. A. Other ladies and gentlemen from Provo
and civinity were among the invited guests.
There were speeches, songs, recitations and
music interspersed and at 10 p. m the guests
were seated in the dining room where an elabor-
ate dinner was served.  Under each plate was a 
bouquet of yellow flowers (the suffrage color)
which were worn the remainder of the evening.
The conversation was animated and merry even,
and all were delighted with the arrangements
and success of the whole affair. The hostess Mrs.
S. A. Boyer who is also the Pres. of Springville
W. S. A. was heartily applauded for making
everything so pleasant and gratifying, and her
husband also came in for a full share in the
honors.  Altogether it was an event long to be
remembered by all who had the good fortune to
be among the happy number, and those who were
not present will certainly regret the ill-luck that
prevented their attendance.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	U. W. P. Club called to order by the President,
E. B. Wells. Opened by prayer, L. T. Freeze.
Roll called and minutes read and approved.
Preliminary business transacted. Original article
by L. G. Richards entitled “Work and Love—
Children,” read by Secretary E. R. Shipp.
	Trip to England written and read by Gladys
Woodmansee. Trip to Alaska, oral description
by Miss N. V. Davis; Totome poles definitely de-
scribed, various tribes of Durango Indians habits
and modes of living, sun shining at 11 o’clock at
night; interment of bodies covered with pearl
buttons: islands and deep green water, snow-
capped mountains and gushing cascades at
Toqua inlet, glacier iceberg, dead river yet
still alive, live icebergs crushing into the water.
At Juno a wall of gray stone. Pictures covered
with gold and silver, and pictures of Raphael’s
at the Greek Church each valued at twenty
thousand dollars. Church at Zitka a Gem of the
purest water; visited Mission Shool. Indian
River, Bainoff Castle, Indian Village, Mine
Glacier, very beautiful and wonderful mountains,
Mt. Fairweather fifteen thousand feet high.
Boise City charming, but Salt Lake most beauti-
ful.
	Poem read by Phebe C. Young. E. B. Well’s
travels and sojourn in Wallace, Idaho—strikes,
affairs, etc., in Coeur d’ Alene.
	The President suggested that a meeting be
called during the coming General Conference so
that ladies from the country could attend. Those
who belong and others who would like to join.
Decided to select a favorable night and publish
in the papers.
	Programme for next meeting, Roll call with
original sentiment; Continuation of N. V. Davis’s
trip to Alaska; Continuation of Gladys Wood-
mansee’s trip to England; Poem by Josephine


Spencer; Poem by Ruth M. Fox; Strikes in
Northern Idaho by E. B. Wells; Poem, Syntethia
Dickinson; Song, Maggie Basset.
					E. R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

			CASSIA STAKE.
Editor EXPONENT:
	The conference of the Relief Society of
the Cassia Stake convened at Oakley Sept.
19,1892.
	On the stand were Pres. Louisa Haight
and Counselors with the ward presidents.
	The conference was opened by singing
and prayer; the various branches reported
in a favorable condition by their presidents.
	Words of instruction were spoken by the
President and her Counselors; after which
Brother F. Brim occupied the remainder of
the morning session.
	In the afternoon Brother H. D. Haight
read the minutes of the organization meet-
ing of the Relief Society at Nauvoo. Sister
Sarah Worthington bore her testimony con-
cerning those early days. Sisters Annie
Bird, Pres. Worthington and M. G. Homer
spoke encouragingly to the sisters.


General and Stake officers were sustained.
Conference adjourned for three months.
				LOUISA PICKET, Sec.


ONEIDA STAKE.
Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The annual conference of the Relief
Society of Oneida Stake, convened at
Franklin on Sunday, Sept, 18, 1892 at 11
a. m. Pres. Elizabeth Fox presided. Con-
ference opened with singing by the choir
and prayer by Pres. Geo. C. Parkinson.
	The minutes of previous conference were
read and approved.
	Pres. Fox expressed pleasure in seeing so
many assembled. Several wards were re-
ported in flourishing condition.
	Sisters Hogan and Townsend of Logan
each made a few interesting remarks on
Relief Society work. Adjourned until 2
p. m.
	Afternoon session: Opened with usual
exercises and reading of the semi-annual
report of the branches of the Relief Society.
	Sister Townsend exhorted the sisters who
had families to attend their meetings, and
obtain the spirit of the Lord to assist them
in their various duties at home. Advised
all to keep the Word of Wisdom,” as it is
a great safe guard against sickness.
	Sister Hogan spoke at some length on
the Word of Wisdom, said the Revelation
was given to us to obey, that the destroy-
ing angel would pass us by. Spoke of the
plagues and famines that are to come upon
us, said if she could prevent it not one
bushel of grain should go out of this valley,
this year, but be stored away for future use.
	Pres. Geo. C. Parkinson spoke of the
various duties of women in raising their
families in a proper way; said that “The
hand that rocks the cradle, rules the world,”
also endorsed remarks of previous speakers.
Pres. Fox made a few closing remarks.
	Choir sang an Anthem. Benediction by
Elder I. B. Nash.
		JOSEPHINE BRAWLEY, Ass’t. Sec.


ST. JOHN’S STAKE.
Editor EXPONENT:
	Conference of the Relief Society of the
St. Johns Stake of Zion was held at St.
Johns Sept. 3rd, 1892. On the stand were
the Presidency of the Stake, Pres. of the
R. S. of the Stake, Counselor and several
leading sisters. After the usual opening
exercises, reports of the wards and Stake
were read, officers of the Central Board,
Stake and wards were presented and sus-
tained unanimously.
	Counselor Frances White addressed the
assembly briefly, bearing testimony of the
truth of the Gospel.
	Pres. E. L. S. Udall expressed herself
as well pleased, during her recent visit to
the Relief Society branches of the Stake at
the hearty welcome she received and the
good spirit manifest among the sisters, al-
though the meetings generally are not as
well attended as they should be.
	Read a circular letter from the EXPONENT
to secretaries requesting them to send re-
ports of the Relief Society Jubilee to Sister
E. B. Wells
	Sister Phoebe A. Mc’Neil spoke of the
necessity of an established confidence be-
tween parents and children.
	Sister Mary E. B. Farr spoke of the
blessings of the Gospel which are predicted
upon obedience to its principles.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Pres. D. K. Udall read from the Doctrine
and Covenants a portion of a revelation to
the Prophet Joseph Smith in regard to the
eternity of the marriage covenant and said:
"Husbands and wives should exercise
patience and charity with each other for
God has promised us kingdoms, principal-
ities and powers if we are faithful to Him
and each other, even that we shall be kings
and queens, in our Fathers kingdom.
	In regard to the use of tobacco he said:
“It is not good for man.” It is contrary to
the Word of Wisdom and impregnates the
system with evil. Spoke strongly against
its use.
	The congregation sang “The spirit of
God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
was pronounced by Pres. Wm. Gibbons.
				MARY E. B. FARR, Sec.


MEXICAN MISSION.
	The fifth quarterly Conference of this
Mission was held in the spacious school-
house at Colonia, Juarez, Chihuahua,
Mexico, on Monday, August 29, 1892.
President Mary Eyring presiding. There
was an excellent attendance, several of the
leading brethren of the Mission favored us
with their presence, Apostle George Teas-
dale, Patriarch Henry Lunt, A. F. Mc’
Donald of the Presidency of the Mission,
Bishops George W. Sevey of Juarez, Wins-
low Farr of Dublan, Jesse N. Smith Jr. of
Pacheco, and others.
	The hymn “Lord we come before thee
now,” was sung. Prayer was offered by
Bishop Sevey, singing ‘Glorious thinge are
sung of Zion,” and minutes of the last
Conference read and approved. Then fol-
lowed the reading of the half yearly reports.
	President Mary B. Eyring, after expres-
sing the happiness she enjoyed in her labors
and the steady progress being made by the
Society; exhorted the sisters to be faithful
and true to the trust reposed in them, in
fulfilling all the obligations of true woman-
hood. Sister Mary Porter of Pacheco,
Emma Barber of Diaz, Ida J. Mortensen of
Dublan, and Susan Martineau of Juarez,
represented the ward branches in good pro-
gressive condition.
	Counselor Cynthia Stowell and Ellen
Lunt addressed the Conference in an ex-
cellent spirit, President A. F. Mc’Donald,
Bishop G. W. Sevey and President George
Teasdale made very encouraging remarks.
The subjects treated upon were, the valued
labors of the officers and members of the
Relief Society; the gathering together of
earnest women interested in the establish-
ment of righteousness upon the earth, and
acting as ministering angels by precept and
example,encouraging the virtues of modesty,
purity and chastity; visiting the widow and
fatherless in their afflictions, and keeping
themselves pure and unspotted from the
world, being full of integrity to the Gospel
of our Lord Jesus Christ; woman’s greatest
mission being to assist in the establishment
of righteousness upon the earth, for which
she is so qualified by nature.
	The authorities of the Relief Society of
the Church and of the Mexican Mission
were unanimously sustained, and the Con-
ference adjourned until Monday, November
28, 1892.
	The benediction was pronounced by
Patriarch Henry Lunt. We had an excel-
lent Conference.
			M. E. TEASDALE, Sec.
	P. S.	In the spring we had heavy frosts
and it was anticipated all the fruit was
destroyed but thanks to our Heavenly


Father we have had an abundance of fine
blackberries, peaches, plums, grapes, a few
strawberries, apples and pears.  Larger and
more luscious peaches than we have had
would be difficult to find any where.
	More grain was raised here this year than
ever before notwithstanding the dry season.
We have lately had a number of nice rains
that have raised the water in the river and
started the grass.
	We feel greatly blessed and encouraged,
and that this is a good country for Latter-
day Saints.
							M. E. T.


Editor EXPONENT:
	President Anna L. Ivins of the Relief 
Society of the St. George Stake, realizing
the necessity of the branches in the North
Western settlements being visited, previous
 to our September conference, and not being
able to make the trip herself, it was decided
her Counselors Ann C. Woodbury and
Hannah M. Miles should make the trip.
	Accordingly on the 13th of August,accom-
panied by Counselor Mary G. Whitehead of
the Primary of this Stake, we left St. George
for Gunlock where our first opportunity for
meeting was 4 p.m., and notwithstanding
a number of the sisters were away from
home and others had sickness in their
families, we had a good meeting, Elizabeth
Truman presiding; and although this settle-
ment is not on the main road and in con-
sequence is visited but seldom, the sisters
are awake to their duties.  On the morning
of the 14th we continued our journey over
one of the worst roads that can be imagined,
to Pine Valley where we held meeting at 
4 p. m.  Dorinda Slade presides over the 
Relief Society; Bishop William Gardner
met with us, and while but few were in at-
tendance a most excellent spirit prevailed. 
	At 6 p. m. we met with the Primary, 
which is ably conducted under the watch 
care of Cynthia B. Gardner.
	On the 5th, after traveling sixteen miles, 
we were welcomed by the people of Pinto
where meeting was held with the Relief
Society at 2 p. m., Mrs. Ann Knell, Presi-
dent; the Bishop of this ward Robert Knell,
was present at our meeting.  We had a
very good time this being one of the settle-
ments where the people live at home and 
board themselves, their land produces grain
and vegetables sufficient for their own wants
and to spare, they have herds of cattle, some
fine houses, in addition to which they have
a good sheep herd; so that they have their
own beef, pork, butter, cheese and plenty
of wool for their clothing; in fact I do not 
know of a more self-sustaining community
than Pinto in this Stake of Zion.
	After meeting we proceeded to Hamlin
a branch of the Pinto Ward, and at 7 p. m.
met with Relief Society and Primary com-
bined; as the place is small the audience
was small, but good attention was paid to
what was said, and I feel that good was ac-
complished.  On the 16th we proceeded to
Hebron, this is another place where the 
people are engaged in the stock business.
many had moved out to their ranches, the 
town is nearly deserted, the floods having
left them without water for their gardens or
for culinary purposes, except what is
hauled from a distance; all of which how-
ever will be overcome in the near future as
the poeple contemplate a reservoir at an ex-
pense of $10,000 which when completed
will furnish water for land already fenced
and for hundreds of acres of good quality
now lying idle just below the village, and

[column 2]
furnish desirable homes for hundreds of per-
sons wishing to become permanently settled;
we drove on five miles to Bishop Terry's
ranch where we were welcomed by Sister
M. A. Terry.
	The 17th we traveled thirty-five miles to
Panacca in Lincoln Co., Nevada, the
Bishop was absent from home but we were
made welcome by Sister Lee, within her
beautiful home.
	At 10 a. m. of the 18th, we met with the
children,Sister Melissa Lee, who has been a 
faithful worker was compelled through sick-
ness and a press of othea duties, to resign 
her position as President of the Primary
Association of this place, and Mrs. Mary
Wrench was chosen President with Melissa
Lee and Christy Turnbow, Counselors;
here as all the settlements can boast were 
a fine lot of healthy children.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Society
which is presided over by Mrs. Elizabeth
Wadsworth; the spirit of the Lord was en-
joyed by the people and all felt to rejoice in
the great Latter-day work.
	On the 19th we commenced our return
journey remaining the first night with 
Sister Terry on their ranch; on the 20th,
we continued our journey to Brother James
Holt's, located about three miles below
Hamblin, in the Meadow, Canyon, there
are but few people here, but as they were 
being visited by relatives from a distance
we decided to hold meeting with them;
which we did and all rejoiced at the oppor-
tunity that had been afforded them; when 
they bade adieu with a pressing invitation
to us to come again.
	We dined at Brother Camfields, at
the Meadows, in the absence of Sister Cam-
field we were kindly entertained by her
daughter Clara; in the afternoon at 2 p. m.
we had an interesting meeting at Pinto with 
the Primary Association; in the evening
we drove to Grass Valley where I had the
privilege of spending the night with my 
sister, Leonora C. Gardner; the 21st being
Sunday we met with the Sunday School;
the exercises rendered reflect great credit
on all concerned.  At 2 p. m. we had a
meeting with the Primary Association a 
good spirit was enjoyed.
	We found a people in this peaceful little 
valley, who are fully awake to the necessity
of educating their children, and they move
into larger settlements in the winter where
the children can attend school.
	In the summer they have a teacher and 
conduct a private school, having built a
nice school house where they are taught
music as well as other branches of educa-
tion, in all of which they show great pro-
ficiency. In the evening we drove to Pine
Valley and remained over night reaching
home on the 22nd, this ended a trip that re-
quired two hundred and fifty miles of travel
over a road that is anything but a pleasure
but is necessary in order to visit the settle-
ments named, which constitute a part of
this Stake,this country is sterile but the in-
dustry of the Saints have made it desirable.
We trust we have done some good in en-
couraging the Saints in their duties.  I
never saw a better spirit than was manifest
among them at the present time, they
watch the signs of the times and are satis-
fied with their observations.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel.
					ANN C. WOODBURY.


MARY EVANS, of Harlem, N. Y., is
licensed captain of a ship, of which her 
husband is chief engineer.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	Died at Pine, Gila County Arizona, Aug. 8th,
1892, of typhoid fever, Lulu Fuller, daughter of
Wyllis D. and Annie Campkin Fuller; deceased
was born in Harrisburg, Washington County,
Utah, June 23, 1875, she leaves behind her a
father, four brothers, a sister and hosts of warm
friends: while we mourn for her, we know that
God has called her home for a wise and glorious
purpose.
	
The heavens are better than this earth below
They are of more account and far more dear,
We will look up, for all most sweet and fair
Most pure, most excellent, is garnered there.
						ELLEN C. FULLER.

Editor EXPONENT:
	Through the Alwise providence of God we
have been called to mourn the loss of two more
faithful sisters who belonged to our Society and
were loved and respected by all.  Their death
has cast a gloom over our otherwise peaceful
settlement and caused great distress in two
families.
	Sister Maria Sophia Andersen Holden, died
Sept. 2nd 1892, leaving a husband and seven
children.
	Sister Helen Gemmell Grewell, died Sept. 7th,
1892, leaving a husband and two children.
	The former was a teacher in our Society the
latter a member and also one of the Presidents in
our Primary Association.  Although we sadly
miss them we feel "our loss is their gain."
			LUCY E. JOHNSON, Pres. R. S.
			ADA EARL, Sec.
	COLONIA DIAZ, MEXICO, Sept. 20,1892.

	Sister Rebeka Rees, widow of Thomas Rees,
died at Thurber, Wayne Co., Utah, on the 9th of
Sept. 1892, of general debility,and old age. She was
born Jan. 1820, at Pembrokeshire, South Wales.
Forty-six years she was a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, living an
exemplary life, always on hand to assist with her
means, every call that was made, charitable to
the poor, always attending her meetings when
able.
	She was the mother of sixteen children three
sons and seven daughters survive, and over fifty
grandchildren and two great-grandchildren and
numerous friends will miss the kind face of
Grandma Rees.
	President Sarah G. Meeks and the sisters of the
Relief Society were united in their efforts in aid-
ing the bereaved daughter, Sister Thomas in pre-
paring the deceased for burial.  May God com-
fort the hearts of those that mourn, is the prayer
of your Sisters in the Gospel.
				SARAH G. MEEKS, Pres.
				BETSEY S. GOODWIN, Sec.
	Utah papers please copy.

Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It is with sad feelings that we announce the
death of our beloved sister and co-laborer, Phebe
Malinda Sevy, daughter of John L. and Caroline
F. Skein Butler.
	Deceased was born Dec. 16, 1837, in Caldwell
Co Mo.  She was baptized in 1846 by her father
and Dec. 5, 1854, was united in marriage to
George W. Sevy, in Spanish Fork.
	Sister Sevy, though not an aged woman, not
having filled up the allotted time, passed through
many trying scenes.  She was the mother of four-
teen children, seven of whom preceded her to the
grave.
	Her health had been poor for several weeks
and, on the 14th of August 1892, after two days
intense suffering with cholera morbus she quietly
passed away, surrounded by all her living chil-

[Column 2]
dren, except the eldest son, John L. who is now
on a mission in Tennessee.  One sister and many
friends were also present.  Two sisters arrived
just in time for the funeral.
	The occasion was made more solemn by the
death, a few hours later, of an infant grand-
daughter four months old which she was raising
for a deceased daughter.
	The funeral took place at 10 a. m., in the meet-
ing house, on the 16th inst.  The services were
conducted by Bishop Allen Miller.  The speakers
were M. M. Steele, Patriarch J. L. Heywood, and
Pres. Crosby.
	Sister Sevy, having been born at an early day
in the Church, remembered many of the trials in-
cident to those days.  She was one of the first
settlers in Southern Utah, and, in connection
with her husband, shared the trials and hardships
endured by those who settled that part of the
country.
	In fact, we can hardly think of anything in the
line of woman’s trials that she has not tasted, and
proven herself worthy.  She has been Counselor
in the Relief Society of this ward since its organi-
zation, twenty years ago.
	Was very charitable and was especially noted
for her hospitality.
	She leaves a husband (who is now in Mexico),
seven children, sixteen grandchildren, two
brothers, five sisters, and a host of friends to
mourn her loss.
			RHOANA HENRIE, President.
			MARY B. HEYWOOD, Counselor.
			ADELIA CROSBY, Cor. Sec.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Example is the school of mankind, and 
they will learn at no other.
	A house without a family worship has
neither foundation nor covering.—Mason.
	The great secret of success in life is to be
ready when your opportunity comes.—
Beaconsfield.


[column 1]
DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
	until 4 p. m.


[column 2]
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her Winter Class in Obstetrics
and Nursing on Monday, October 24.
	Address: Dr. Shipp, 18 Main S
	Telephone 383-

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI- 
	POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E.	FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail
	Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS

[Logo of Rio Grande Western Raillway]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY! 
..THROUGH THE. .
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!.
Choice of Three D stinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST
D. C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Sept. G. F. & P. A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
 he country promptly responded to.
	AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY,


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The touching tribute to an old friend
which was the last literary work of the be-
loved poet Whittier shows that the sweet
faith which produced “My Psalm” illum-
ined the closing days of his life. The wo-
man suffragists mourn the loss of one who
ever gave them the timely word of sympathy
and in sweet inspiration of his memory they
will be stronger for his life and work to
emulate his devotion to justice and to
human freedom.
	THE death of George William Curtis re-
moves one of the most lovable figures in
American literature and one of the most
patriotic of American citizens. His speech
at the memorable Chicago convention in
1860 which nominated Abraham Lincoln
struck the key note of his life. He said
the gentlemen of the convention must
have a care how they rejected the very
words of the Declaration of Independence
and faiied to enlist in the fight for the free-
dom of the territories, the sacred fire of the
cause of human liberty that had been the
inspiration of the Fathers of the Republic.
it was in this spirit that Mr. Curtis was a
life-long advocate of woman suffrage. Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
------
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
------
Vo. 21.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1892.		No. 9.


THE SEGO LILY.
---
UTAH'S FLOWER.
---
What other flower so well could represent thee,
	Dear Utah, in high courts, where kings may 
		tread,
As the White Sego, which once kindly lent thee,
	For thy new guests, new hopes, when hope had
fled;
And like fat quails and precious manna sent thee,
	For famished souls, afforded meat and bread?

When strong men reeled from hunger, women
fainted,
	And little ones cried plaintively for food,
Came the dark Indian, with face bright painted,
	Pointing where Sego plants the hilltops
		strew'd;
And from that day the modest flower was
		sainted,
	Whose juicy bulb had famine's rage subdued.

And oft in sterile waste, all unattended, 
The Sego decks some lone, neglected tomb;
Many we find more elegant and splended,
	In rich attire, with luscious, sweet perfume;
But which hath man so generously befriended, 
Of all the flowers which o'er the Wasatch
		bloom?

O'er the Queen Rose we all may be ecstatic,
	Accord the Indian Paint Brush charming
		power;
Yet let not grateful memory prove erratic,
	Or grant to Marguerite her sister's dower;
Of hardihood and Faith most emblematic,
	We vote the Sego Lily Utah's Flower.
			L. LULA GREENE RICHARDS.
	October, 1892.


CONTENTS.
	Isabella of Castile.  In Rural England—A
Story.  By-Laws.  Trip to England.  S. L. Co.,
W. S. A. Social Reunion—E. J.  W. S. A. Re-
port.  Pacific Coast Woman’s Press Association
—The Journalist. The National Council of Wo-
men—Rachel Foster Avery.  National Council of
Women of the United States. Woman’s News—
Almy Priscilla Alden.  Notes and News.
Editorial:—Mass Meeting of Women.
Columbus Day.  Columbus Day in Chicago.
Death at the White House.  Editorial Note.
Poetry:—The Sego Lily—L. Lula Greene
Richards. Our Union—Lu Dalton.  What Will
the Future be?—Zina C. Walker.  The Robin’s
Nest—Ellen Jakeman.


OUR UNION.
---
COLUMBUS DAY.
---
Let this fair western land
As a safe refuge stand,
	Through all ages and time yet to come,
Where the poor and oppressed
May find safe, welcome rest
	And the place for a happy home.

CHORUS:
			Our Union!  Our Union? 
Land of our love!
			With her fair hills and dales,
			With her prairies and vales, 
And her starry flag floating above.


From the east and the west,
Come, ye  sad and oppressed,
	Plant your feet on our free, fertile soil,
Plow and sow, reap and mow,
Set your fruit trees a-row,
	And rejoice in the harvest of toil.

Here no kings shall oppress,
No harsh law give distress,
	Rich nor poor, great nor small, will we know,
Hand in hand, side by side,
We'll in friendship abide,
	Equal all, neither high nor low.

We have lakes deep and wide,
Rolling rivers besides,
	We have mountains and islands outspread,
We have sun, we have snow,
Glaciers high, meadows low,
	And the blue, smiling sky overhead.

While the earth's wide wings sweep,
While the ocean rolls deep,
	And the seasons their yearly course run,
Let this fair western land
As a safe refuge stand
	For the homeless whenever they come.
							LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
ISABELLA OF CASTILE.
---
	WHO is there among the patriotic women
of America whose heart does not bound
with enthusiasm at the name of Isabella of
Castile; and in whose breast is not kindled
a gleam of admiration for her character and
a desire to emulate her graces and her
virtues.  It seems to be a law of the great
controller of the events that govern the
destiny of nations, even of Him who saith
to the raging sea, "thus far shalt thou go
and no farther," it seems to be His will
that at certain stages of the world's history
certain individuals should be raised up to sit
in high places differing in many respects
from those that have preceded them and
particularly fitted to perform a certain work,
which in the providence of the Almighty
is then designed to be brought about be-
cause the set time has come when that
which has long been hidden from the
knowledge of the greater portion of the
human race is about to be made known for
the benefit of all generations.
	It was at such a period of time as this
that was born on the 22nd of April, 1451,
of John the Second of Castile and Isabella
of Portugal, Isabella of Castile, a name
destined to become famous throughout the
civilized world.
	Can we picture to ourselves the feeble in-
fant that first saw the light at Madrigal in
old Castile, Spain; born in the midst of a
people famed for their deeds of chivalry and
celebrated in song and story for their
cuirassed knights and their warriors whose
courage and warlike deeds were excelled by
none, yet who could in the moment of
victory show so much generosity to a fallen
foe that their known magnanimity and
valor had almost passed into a proverb.
This too was at a time and in a country
when the Church of the apostacy the great
Church of Rome held full supremacy and
its haughty and mitred Priests demanded

[Column 2]
obedience of kings and potentates declaring
themselves their superiors in power,
telling kings and governments that they
only held their crowns at the disposal and
the pleasure of the Pontiff of Rome and
unless they bowed and were subject to His
supreme authority they had the power to
absolve their subjects from their allegiance
and to put others in their places a power
claimed by Rome and exercised by them at
that time throughout the whole Christian
world.  When we reflect upon the sur-
roundings of Isabella during her childhood
and early youth we are led to admire the
strong individuality of character and inde-
pendence of spirit manifested by her
throughout her brilliant and exalted career.
	It is true that the Church of Piedmont
maintained its independence for centuries
but after years of noble but ineffectual
struggles were compelled to submit to the
power to which all seemed to bow.  In that
refuge of the oppressed behind the lofty
bulwarks of the mountains the Waldenses
claimed and maintained their right to
liberty and to worship God according to
their consciences prefering the hardships of
their lot to submission to the then prevailing
power.
	In the fifteenth century light began to
dawn upon the minds of men a spark that was
yet to be kindled into a flame that would
spread and burn throughout Christendom.
There had been Wycliffe in England boldly
asserting his right to disseminate the truth
contained in the Holy scriptures, and the
right of the people to read in their own
language,ready and willing to lay down his
life for the principles of truth in which he
believed; and it was by a decree of the
council of Constance, that more than forty
years after his death his bones were ex-
humed and after being publicly burned the
ashes were thrown into a neighboring brook;
but though the body may be burned and
the ashes strewn to the four winds vain are
the efforts of man to stop the progress of
truth, and the seeds sown by Wycliffe, were
growing and bearing fruit in the hearts of
many. The writings of Wycliffe had con-
verted a John who was stirring up the
minds of the people in Germany and a
Jerome of Payne who not only raised their
voices against the corruption and errors
then prevailing; but stood in chains before
Kings and Councils standing firm before the
assembled Dignitaries of the Church and
State; and willing rather than recant their
doctrines to accept the martyr's fate going
joyfully to their death.  This was but the
first faint glimmering of light preceding the
dawn of the reformation that was soon to
follow, and revolutionize the whole civilized
world, or like the distant whisper and mur-
mur that precedes the mighty roar of the
ocean that soon increases in strength and pow-
er and sweeps from before it every obstacle
presented to its onward progress; but none of
these innovations had yet found their way
to old Spain, and on the death of her father
the infant Isabella was taken by her wise
and widowed mother to the little town of
Arevalo where she was educated free from
the pernicious influences of a Court; here


she developed those graces of mind and
person, for which she was afterwards so
much distinguished for her strength of
character and sagacity as a ruler.
	It is to be regreted that we do not possess
more of the incidents of the early life of the
future Queen of Castile; we find her at the
early age of thirteen called from her peace-
ful retreat and the care of her wise mother
by her brother Henry the fourth to the
pomp, splendors and dangers of a Court.
But Isabella was a true woman and when
her brother from selfish motives of policy
sought to dispose of her at the age of six-
teen in a marriage both distasteful and un-
suitable to her, she bravely asserted her
right both as a woman and the future Queen
of a great country, not to be disposed of
without her own consent and that of the
nobles of the realm. King Henry gained
no friends by his arbitrary treatment of his
sister and when in other respects he ren-
dered himself unworthy the affection and
fealty of his subjects; and when the cities
of Seville and Andalusia had unfurled
their standards in the name of Isabella, and
she was entreated to accept the crown, her
affection and loyalty manifested itself in the
noble reply, “while my brother lives none
other has a right to the crown.” And it
was by her wisdom and assistance that he
was once more firmly established on the
throne of Castile, but Henry still opposed the
marriage of Isabella with Ferdinand of
Aragon a suitor prefered by herself and a
marriage suitable in every respect and per-
formed in the most romantic manner. This
marriage was highly acceptable to the
Castilian nobility both on account of the re-
striction put upon Ferdinand, and because
all the rights of Sovereignity were secured
to Isabella; but it was to Isabella herself,
her virtues, her executive ability, her in-
exhaustible resources of mind under all cir-
cumstances to which the homage of her
subjects were most due, and when on the
death of her brother, which event occurred
on the 11th of December 1474, Isabella was
proclaimed Queen of Castile there was re-
joicing throughout her realm. Isabella
now occupied the highest position which it
was possible for a woman to attain; not
only fulfilling all her duties as wife and
mother but maintaining her dignity as a
sovereign Ruler. As an impartial adminis-
trator of justice Isabella stands unrivaled;
in no case do we find her making a distinc-
tion between prince or peasant. Her charity
was unbounded and although desiring to
increase the glory and add to the conquests
of Spain, she was the first to try to alleviate
the horrors of war both by providing for
the comfort of the sick and wounded, she
herself superintending the erection of tents
for the suffering, but also in showing mercy
to the conquered; inspiring the hearts of the
soldiers with courage, and filling the hearts
of her people with love.
	But Isabella was destined to play another
part in the world’s history, one that would
crown her brow with a more enduring
wreath than the jeweled crown of Castile,
and would cause her name to be handed
down through all future generations as con-
nected with a discovery, the magnitude of
which is even now not fully comprehended.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE college girls are taking a lively in-
terest in politics. It will be hard to keep
college women contented to be reckoned
politically with idiots.


[Column 1]
﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.

				XXV.
	The preparations for the wedding of
Lady Anna Hilliard were very different
and much more elaborate than those of her
cousin's marriage had been,on a far grander
scale and indeed every detail connected
therewith seemed of so much consequence
that it was not only a nine days wonder
but all the people round about including
the servants as well as the masters and
mistresses scarcely talked of anything else.
All the old stories of the feud between Sir.
Edward and Lord Walton were reiterated
and amply enlarged upon and the love affair
in which Lady Walton had figured con-
spicuously was not left out of any conver-
sation upon the subject, and the young heir
Clairville Hilliard was served up with his
gipsy mother, and all the slanderous reports
that had been circulated at that period con-
cerning the doings at the Castle-
	Happily for Lady Anna these reports did
not reach her, she was so far removed from
the gossip of these newsmongers but Mrs.
Bland was not so fortunate and she became
quite weary of the repetition of these idle
tales and of disputing many of the slanders
that were brought to her in confidence by
meddlers and people who really wanted
"only to know the truth," according to
their own statement.  Mrs.  Bland knew
however that these gossipers were only
coming for more news to retail, but she
generally gave them a plain lesson upon
matters and sent them away with the im-
pression that, "it was none of their affair."
	Mrs. Bland's influence even in this res-
pect was salutary, and things quieted
down considerably,though Lord Walton did
not escape a quarrel or two with his friends,
(such they called themselves) about young
Walton's anticipated union with the daugh-
ter of Sir Edward who had made himself so
obnoxious in the vicinity, notwithstanding
"his title and possesions and his handsome
daughter," as they sneeringly alluded to
the marriage.
	Each time Lord Walton met with sneers
and ridicule he vented his spleen at home
and his wife and son both grew very tired
of his perpetual interference.  Sometimes
he was actually brutal and once or twice
struck his son, who threatened in turn to
be revenged upon the men who had enraged
his father if he could only ascertain who
they were.  Lady Walton though suffering,
keenly through it all, wore a smiling face
and sought to conciliate her husband by all
the means in her power.  Finally he declar-
ed on one occasion that he could not and
would not remain in England and suffer
such indignities, he would go over to the
continent, until the marriage ceremony was
over and the gossip had died out.  Lady
Walton did not remonstrate, for she felt
what a relief it would be to them all; he
was so annoyed at her seeming indifference
that he swore she should not be so much
her own mistress, he would stay at home
now, and spoil their pleasure; in fact the
man was to all appearances jealous of the
affection of his wife for her own son,
ridiculous as it may appear.  Things grew
worse daily between them, he could not
endure the sight of either of the Hilliards
and at last forbade their presence at the
Hall.
	Maitland was furious and all the efforts
of his mother were unavailing to quiet him;
in the quarrel between father and son the
whole story of the engagement between

[Column 2]
Sir Edward and his mother came out and
the boy's happiness was almost shattered,
but his mother besought him not to break
the heart of one so tender and loving as
Anna because of the bitter past, and his
better nature prevailed, and the young man
determined to be true to his manly instincts
and let the past alone.  Lord Walton had
allowed himself to give way to such violent
fits of anger, that like the man he affected
to despise his constitution was likely to
give way, and to prostrate himself or be-
come insane with pride and jealousy.
	Unknown to his wife he had been living
a very fast life and his money had been
drifting away from him rapidly, this preyed
upon his mind too,and he was attacked with
sudden illness which developed brain fever,
and just when the marriage was to have
taken place Lord Walton was lying helpless
and unconscious of his condition.  At times
he talked and raved of the past, and the
physicians in attendance not knowing the
cause of his sickness or that there was any
"method in his madness," wished his wife
to be constantly at his bedside, whereas
she knew through the old faithful nurse
who had been with them from the time of
her marriage, that he was always more
rational when she was absent.
	It was a trying time indeed for Lady
Walton, but she kept up bravely and one
looking on could not have guessed the sor-
row that had entered into her soul.  Some
weeks of watching and nursing and weary
waiting and a slight change for the better
gave them hope of recovery.  The invalid
restored once more to his senses inquired
about the contemplated union and learning
it had been delayed in consequence of his
serious illness, begged them to wait no
longer but let the ceremony be performed,and
as it seemed to be his positively expressed
wish—it was decided that the young people
should be married without further delay.
	As the ceremony was to be performed at
the Castle and all the festivities were to
take place there, it would not interefere
with Lord Walton who was not even able
to drive over in a carriage.  Rob Harrison
came from London to give away the bride,
and the Bishop was to officiate on this
grand occasion assisted by the young rector
who had married the Doctor and Jane Con-
way.  Quite a number of Maitland's rela-
tives were to be present, uncles, aunts and
cousins and most of Sir Edward's relatives,
thought they cared nothing for Anua, yet
the grandeur of the event was sufficient in
itself to bring them hundreds of miles to
witness the marriage and enjoy the cele-
bration and banquet.
	The housekeeper was very consequential
and resented the coming of those people who
had behaved so badly at the time of Sir
Edward's funeral.  She declared she would
not have them in the house, bnt after much
persuasion from both Clair and Lady Anna
she reluctantly consented to hold her peace.
Everything was on the most magnificent
scale for the time and place, and even Lady
Walton's fastidious tastes were gratified,
Mr. Harrison had assisted with both advice
and positive help; had sent from the great
metropolis many things rich and rare, and
such an abundance of choice flowers, that
with those the gardens there afforded, the
whole place was like Eden itself cr  a
fairy land, with bloom and fragrance.
	Anna's French maid and half a dozen
other seamstresses had prepared such a
trousseau, as the country families thereabouts
had never before seen, and there seemed


nothing wanting to make the affair perfect
in every detail except the presence of the
father in law elect. The bride and bride-
groom were to leave the morning after the
wedding for the continent, and on returning
to spend the winter in London. This was
Lady Anna’s idea of happiness, and Uncle
Rob or any one else had not objected, as it
was somehow instrinctively felt, that the
postponement was unpropitious and that it
was not likely to turn out happily in the
end.
	At last the long-looked for day came; it
was in chilly November and the fields were
bare and bleak and a terrific wind the even-
ing previous had shook the rickety old
castle and whistled and shrieked around it,
and the great elm trees creaked and groaned
and one or two not far from the house snap-
ped asunder. Lady Anna would have giv-
en way to dismal forebodings had her Un-
cle Rob not been with her to cheer her de-
presed spirits. Clair who was usually light-
hearted could scarcely be pacified and after
his sister had retired for the night, sat long
with Mr. Harrison telling him of the pre-
monitions he felt, and of what the servants
had been talking of ever since the postpone-
ment of the marriage.
	When he ventured to express to Mr. H.
his impression that some great event either
good or bad was about to transpire which
concerned the house and the family, then
Mr. H. replied in confidence, “probably we
are all going to leave England, at least I am
sure that I shall before very long, and you
would perhaps like to accompany me to the
far East, as it will be very dull here and
the estate can easily be let to some compe-
tent person: the lodge keeper who has been
so long in your father’s employ will look
after your interests, and you ought to see a
little of the world and know more of men
and business, now’s your time, before mar-
riage.”
	Clair was over-joyed though he would
have preferred his own dear native land to
the far East, yet he was too undemonstra-
tive even to make such a suggestion and re-
plied, to “Uncle Rob,” as he too sometimes
called him,that as soon as the fuss and flurry
of his sister’s wedding was over he would
put everything in proper shape with the
help of his lawyers and join him at his
lodgings in London.
	It was just what Rob Harrison liked
though it had not been premeditated, and
he felt too that it would be quite beneficial
to the young Baronet. It was near morn-
ing ere the two retired and the night was
dark and fierce gusts of wind were sweep-
ing over the country. No one slept much
in that old place for it seemed more than
ever forlorn, though the house was filled
with guests, who had been arriving for the
last two or three days.
	At the first grey streaks of dawn Lady
Anna rose and called her maid, feeling she
must speak to some one, and of all her rela-
tives there was not a single person among
them to whom she could speak of the things
that lay near her heart.
	“And so I am to leave my old home to-
day never to return as its mistress, Marie?”
	“And aren’t you glad my Lady that you
are going to get a fine handsome man, rich
and stylish, who adores you with all his
soul, surely that ought to satisfy any young
lady.”
	“You do not understand me girl, no one
ever does, not even my cousin Mrs. Bland,
though she knows me best of all the world,
but I have feelings I cannot explain,doubts
[Column 2]
and perplexities, I dare say they were born
with me, I recollect my old nurse Raynor
used to say, I had too much sentiment, and
it cropped out at the wrong time: this cer-
tainly is an inopportune time to be moody—
let us get every thing ready; nine o’clock
comes soon these dark mornings, my cousin
who is an early riser will be coming over
here and she shall not find me sad or droop-
ing on my wedding day.”
	Marie thus addressed began to get out the
finery—the beautiful morning gown was
donned in haste and the maid rang for Lady
Anna’s tea to be brought up stairs, for she
had declared to the housekeeper she would
not breakfast with all those people whom
she had so seldom seen, if they were the
nearest relatives. So Clair was left to keep
them in countenance and maintain the dig-
nity of the establishment, with the ever
helpful Uncle Rob, while Anna sipped her
tea, and dallied with her toast and muffins
scarcely swallowing a mouthful.
	As the great clock of the Castle struck
eight Mrs. Bland was ushered in and in-
formed her cousin that Maitland with his
retinue had arrived, and with the air of one
who brings good news, she added, “I have
heard it is always a good omen when the
bridegroom comes early.” Just these few
words raised Anna’s spirits and she began
to talk cheerfully almost gaily, as the maid
displayed her finery one piece after another;
the veil was the most delicate lace, the gift
of Uncle Rob, and the dress was the most
exquisite India Silk profusely trimmed with
Venetian lace and pearls. Her luxuriant
golden hair was loosely knotted with pearls
and crowned her like an aureole. Never
was a bride more fittingly arrayed and as
her cousin gazed upon her beautiful face
and kissed her again and again before they
left her boudoir she could not forbear say-
ing, “Was ever a bride so charming?”
And under her breath she said, “and neither
father or mother to bid her God speed or
bestow a blessing.” Anna caught the
meaning and for a moment both shed tears
of loneliness though not of repining, and
then the cheery manly voice of Uncle Rob
called to them to come down; in the great
oak drawing room Doctor Bland and Clair,
Burke and Hemenway,the Bishop and Rec-
tor were waiting, the other guests were in
the ante-rooms and waited the summons,
Maitland and his mother joined Lady Anna
her cousin and Uncle Rob in the library,
where the formal greetings were given and
received, and then Anna leaning upon
Uncle Rob’s arm and almost fainting with
extreme nervousness stepped forward into
the grand archway (that had been purposely
arranged, and beautifully wreathed with the
fairest flowers) where waited young Wal-
ton his heart beating high with a conscious
pride of the fulfillment of his fondest hopes.
Whispers of approval ran through the as-
sembled company and soon the words were
pronounced that made Lady Anna Hilliard
and Maitland Walton husband and wife.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	WHAT WILL THE FUTURE BE?

	’Tis true you say you love me well,
	As far as thoughts and words will tell;
	But searching far into your eyes.
	Deep in my heart, these words arise,;
	When years fly on, and skies of blue
	Fade into grey, will you be true?
	When youth and beauty fade away,
		Will you be truest such a day?


Ah yes, when life is waning fast,
And charms of youth are in the past;
Will you then say with soul and heart,
You've filled a high and noble part
Through time and sorrow, good and ill,
And find love links us closer still;
Hearts ever true, love, hearts exer true,
Loving me, even, as I'd love you?
	ZINA C. WALKER.


THE ROBIN’S NEST.

Though many a tree stood tall and green,
	Where any bird might joy to rest.
The one that Willie called his own
	The robins chose to build their nest.
Locked in his breast the secret lay.
	He joyed to call them all his own.
And often left his mates at play
	To see how much the nest had grown.
He scattered crumbs around the place,
	Such things as they in building used.
They grew familiar with his face,
	Nor found their confidence abused.
All day the glad thrill in his heart
	Made task and toil less hard to bear,
He often dreamed of them at night,
	And waking found the world more fair.
One day from overhanging bough,
	While dangled in mid air his legs.
Within the soft lined hollow sphere,
	He found four dainty speckled eggs.e
But duty called him far away,
	And days and hours and weeks went passed
’Ere come that glad and happy day—
	He homeward turned his steps at last.
He sought his tree. No chattering bird
	Made music in the checkered light,
His very soul the silence heard.
	He climbed the tree with sudden fright.
The empty nest among the leaves
	Still stood in airy lines of grace,
But birds and eggs and hopes were gone
The bitter tears streamed down his face.
He never knew what foe to joy,
	Had slain his birds. but in those tears
He knew the pangs—poor sorrowing boy—
	That is the cross of riper years.
How many, in the flush of spring
	Have heaped with hopes the glowing, breast,
That found when autumn winds had blown
	Within their hearts an empty nest.
ELLEN JAKEMAN.


THE Woman Suffrage Association of Salt
Lake County intend holding an Annual
Convention on Tuesday November 15, 1892,
at the Thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
at 2 o’clock p. m. All who are interested
in the political education of women are in-
vited to attend.
	ELIZABETH HOWARD.


Mrs. President Dwight, of Yale College,
originated the idea of a “Yale Home” for
students who may need medical care or
nursing. Mrs. Dwight, with the assistance
of many ladies of New York, among them
Mrs. William C. Whitney, obtained funds
for the erection of the building last spring,
and it has been completed during the sum-
mer. There every student who is ill can
be under the care of a matron and physician
and receive all the attention which could be
given him at his home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to

	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1892.


MASS MEETING OF WOMEN.

   THE Salt Lake County World’s Fair As-
sociation of women will hold a mass
meeting in the Theatre in this City
Nov. 3, at which time it is hoped there
will be women from all parts of the county,
and that a great interest will be aroused in
regard to the exhibit to be made, at the
Columbian Exposition in 1893. Every wo-
man should make an effort to do something
in this direction that Utah may not be be-
hind any other state of equal size and popu-
lation. There will be a number of short
speeches made by able speakers, most of
them young women. It is a cause in which
the public are interested and there should
be an enthusiastic audience. A programme
will be published in the daily papers.


COLUMBUS DAY.

	EARLY in the morning of the 21st of
October the school children of this City as-
sembled in the various districts to march in
procession and later on the streets were
filled with them and crowds of people gath-
ered to see the exercises and certainly lt was
a beautiful sight. Bands of music were in
attendance, flags and banners gaily floating
in the breeze, the day was fine and all things
propitious. Perfect order was kept and
about eight thousand children marched two
and two to the large Tabernacle where they
were seated and the programme as arranged
was carried out. Presidents Wilford Wood-
ruff, Geo. Q. Cannon and other prominent
men were among the spectators occupying
a position near the choir.
	Prof. Malone of the High School read
the President’s proclamation for the day to
be observed as a holiday, and Miss Alice
Rowe by request read Gov. Thomas’s proc-
lamation for this Territory.
	The ceremony of raising the flag was per-
formed by the veterans of the G. A. R. the
flag was just in front of the organ, and
afterwards remained suspended, the Taber-
nacle juvenile choir band struck the air
“America” and as the flag reached the top
of the staff the rolling drum was heard and
the veterans led the assemblage in three
cheers for old glory.
	The Hurrahs were inspiring from so
many childish voices. After singing of

[Column 2]
America by the children the Rev. Dr. Utter
offered prayer and then a song for Columbus
Day composed for the occasion was sung,
the effect of the music by such a multitude
was exceedingly grand.
	Other exercises of a most interesting and
intellectual character followed, all calculated
to make a deep impression upon the minds
and hearts of the children.
	Similar exercises were held in the Latter-
day Saints College, the Utah University 
and in the various schools in all parts of the
Territory.
	In the afternoon a grand concert was
given in the Tabernacle also in the evening,
at which time fully a thousand voices,
joined in the choruses and anthems etc.,
under the leadership of the famous
musicians Professors Evan Stephens, Thos.
Radcliffe, and H. E. Giles, who deserve
the highest encomiums of praise for the
grand success achieved.
	Chief Justice Zane delivered an eloquent
address and Bishop O. F. Whitney read an
historical poem on Columbus of his own
composition, which was received with
hearty applause and created considerable
enthusiasm. The poem as a whole was a
beautiful tribute to the memory of the great
discoverer and also to our own Washington,
and contains many superb passages, rich
with thought and exquisite in feeling and
altogether telling in sentiment. The
language sublime and the construction quite
in keeping with the glorious theme. We
intend publishing it in full in our next
issue; and consider it worthy a place in the
History of Utah. The singing was excel-
lent and one should mention many of the
performers specially, but our space is so lim-
ited we can only mention Miss Lillian
Roberts, of Provo who charmed the audi-
ence with her sweet voice and Mrs. Anne
Colburn Plummer who both gave rich se-
lections and were vociferously applauded.
The musical merit of the cencert is unques-
tionably excellent.


[column 1]
COLUMBUS DAY IN CHICAGO.
---
	THE commencement of the dedicatory
ceremonies of the Columbian Exposition be-
gan in Chicago on the 19th of October with
the formal inaugural reception to the guests
of honor.
	It would be utterly futile to attempt a
description of the magnificence of the prepa-
rations and paraphernalia though only cul-
ling from dispatches, so we shall only say,
there was a great procession of official digni-
taries, and distinguished guests foreign and
native born, and the decorations included
carloads of flowers and smilax, and besides
the stars and stripes,the colors of Spain and
Italy and the flags and banners of all
nations.
	After famous selections rendered by the
grand orchestra a grand march was led by
the military officers into which the moving
throng merged, and floating into a quad-
rille, the blaze and dazzle of the insignia
and glitter of the costumes and the rhythmic
motion of the dancers must have been a liv-

[column 2]
ing poem set to such thrilling music as the
world has seldom if ever seen.
	The description of the dresses worn by
the ladies is something appaling, and we
therefore leave such matters to society
writers, and content ourselves with men-
tioning only the two national lady commis-
sioners from Utah; Mrs. Margaret Blaine
Salisbury wore a dress of white faille
Francaise embroidered in silver with orna-
ments of diamonds and pearls, Mrs.
Whalen's gown was a canary colored crepe
trimmed in brocade orange ribbons with or-
naments of diamonds.
	Dispatches of the 20th, October say,
"Last night society set the glittering seal of
her approval upon the World's Fair."  The
ceremonies have been as successful and even
more so than had been anticipated since the
first notice of the outbreak of cholera
abroad.  The feasting and dancing and
such like festivities as also the toasting and
speech-making have all been of the highest
order possible.  The one great drawback to
the enjoyment of the occasion has been the
absence of the Chief Executive of the nation
and the lamentable cause, viz. the serious
illness of his wife, by whose bedside he is
tenderly watching, while these great events
in which both were expected to take the
most prominent part are being celebrated.
	Ex-President Cleveland out of courtesy
and respect and with a laudable appreacia-
tion of the position of President Harrison
voluntarily absents himself from the scenes
of attraction in which he also was expected
to play an active part.
	The dedicatory oration by Hon. Henry
Watterson was an eloquent effort though
hastily prepared, we quote one of the open-
ing paragraphs.
	"We are met this day to honor the mem-
ory of Christopher Columbus, to celebrate
the four hundreth annual return of the year
of his transcendant achievement and with
fitting riches to dedicate to America and the
universe  the concrete exposition of the
world's progress between 1492 and 1892."
	In his closing remarks he alluded to the
display made by the children of the schools
all over the land in these beautiful words:
	"These, indeed, are our crown jewels, 
the truest though inevitable offspring of our
civilization and development; representa-
tives of a manhood vitalized and invigorated
by toil and care; of womanhood elevated
and inspired by liberty and education.  God
bless the children and their mothers.  God
bless our contry's flag, and God be with
us now and ever.  God in our roof-trees
shaded and God on the highway; God in
the winds and waves and God in all our
hearts."
	Mrs. Potter Palmer delivered an address
on the "Work of the Board of Lady
Managers," and made a grand showing and
also offered congratulations and greetings to
the women of all lands.
	Mrs. Henroitin gave a salutation in honor
of Queen Isabella which was highly ap-
plauded.
	There were several speeches by dis-
tinguished, well-known orators and choruses
and anthems and orations, and the cere-
monies closed with a most brilliant and
wonderful display of fireworks, represent-
ing the greatest events and also places etc.
In the evening the Auditorium was the
scene of a Columbian Congress, purely in-
tellectual in which women participated.


George Wm. Curtis by his will left all
his property absolutely to his wife.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
---
	Mrs. Caroline Scott Harrison, wife of the
Chief Executive of the nation, President
Benjamin Harrison, died at the White
House in Washington, D. C., on Tuesday
morning Oct. 25, 1892, at 1:40, of con-
sumption from which she had been suffer-
ing for some considerable time though little
was known of the disease that threatened
her life until a few months since.  Strong
hopes were entertained of her recovery un-
til a short time ago, and recently the Presi-
dent has absented himself from all public
places and remained constantly by her bed-
side.  The family are grief-stricken at the
great loss they have sustained in her de-
mise.
	There were present at the moments of
her departure, President Harrison, Mr. and
Mrs. Mc'Kee, Mr. and Mrs. Russell Harri-
son, Lieut. and Mrs. Parker, Mrs. Dimmick 
and Mrs. Newcomer,all the family except the
three grand children.
	Mrs. Harrison was so tenderly beloved
that the parting must have been inexpress-
ibly touching.
	Ever since Mrs. Harrison's entrance at
the White House, she has given an air of
the most graceful superiority to all its ar-
rangements and entertainments; socially
she is said to have been very charming and
in her homelife intensely gentle and moth-
erly.
	Mrs. Harrison was born in Oxford, Ohio,
and was the daughter of Dr. John Wither-
spoon Scott and Mary Scott.
	Mr. and Mrs. Harrison fell in love with
each other while the young lady was at
school.  Mrs. Harrison was elected the 
First President General of the organization
known as the Daughters of the Revolution,
in 1890, and was re-elected in 1892. It 
seems almost remarkable that through so
many terms of the office of President, Mrs.
Harrison is the second mistress of the White
House, who has died at the Presidential
mansion.  Her demise will cast a shadow
over that beautiful and charming place for 
a time at least, and the rejoicings at the
coming election will scarce be the same
after such a sad occurence, as the death of
one so near the heart of the nation.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	THE news of Columbus Day celebration
here and in Chicago, and the sad death at 
the White House in Washington crowd our
local pages, and hinder our giving room for
the Relief Society Conference, Obituary
notices and other matter we have on hand,
therefore these articles must be delayed.


BY LAWS.
OF THE
SALT LAKE COUNTY WORLD'S FAIR ASSO-
CIATION.
	ARTICLE I.--Name.
	THIS Association shall be known as the
Salt Lake County World's Fair Association.
	ARTICLE II.–Object.
	The object of this Association shall be to
collect an exhibit of the industries and in-
terests of the women of this County, for 
the exposition in 1893; and to authorize and
encourage the organization of auxiliary as-
sociations to be known as "World Fair
Clubs," in each town throughout this


County under such rules and local manage-
ment as may be deemed best.
ARTICLE III.—Officers and Executive
Board.
	A Board of Directors shall be chosen by
the President, consisting of twenty-five
members; from which number shall be ap-
pointed by the President, two Vice-Presi-
dents, a Secretary, Assistant Secretary,
Treasurer and an Executive Board con-
sisting of five members.

ARTICLE IV.—Membership.
Any woman residing in Salt Lake County,
may become a member of this Association
by paying a membership fee of one dollar
and signing the by-laws. The member-
ship fee, and all other moneys raised by
whatever means shall be used for the ex-
penses of the Association, at the direction
of the Executive Board.

ARTICLE V.—Meetings.
Meetings shall be held every Thursday
at three p.m. A quorum shall consist of
eleven members.

ARTICLE VI.—Reports.
The Secretary shall forward to the Secre-
tary of the Territorial Board on or about
the 30th of each month, a report showing
the work done during the preceding month.
Questions requiring immediate attention,
however, shall be at once forwarded to the
Territorial Board.
ARTICLE VII.—Amendments.
These by-laws may be amended at any
regular meeting of the Association by a
two-thirds majority vote of the members
present; notice having been given at a pre-
vious meeting.


A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

	WE who were born, and have been reared
in these Western Wilds, hemmed in on all
sides, as we are, by majestic towering peaks,
naturally fell an inquisitiveness, an unsati-
able desire to get beyond this grand fortress 
and take in with a glance of our eye a great-
er extent of the earth's surface. We may
gaze in awe and admiration at the mighty 
rugged bulwarks that surround us, and
never grow weary of viewing the varied
aspect of these snow-capped mountains;
drinking in the artistic beauty of the fresh
green verdure of early spring, the richness
of autumnal coloring or when clad in their
dazzling robe of spotless ermine.
	We may view with pride and pleasure
these spacions valleys with their bounteous
harvest fields, their shady groves and pleas-
ant glens, their sparkling lakes and streams;
and our hearts may overflow with love and
gratitude for our peaceful habitations and
the dear ones abiding therein. Yet, not-
withstanding these circumstances, our
minds reach out beyond these barriers
and in fancy we treasure the long stretch of 
plains which intervene 'twixt us, and those
centres of civilization where congregate the
multitudes of men; and where we may view
the great busy world as it is. 
	Yes, perchance our desires may transcend
the borders of the great waters; and we 
may long to visit in reality, as we oft have 
done in fancy, the dear old mother country;
hallowed by oft-told tales of the parental 
homestead, and of scenes made sacred by
sweet memories of yore. At least these
were the feelings which fostered my desires
long, long, ere I ventured on my pleasant 
trip to the farther shore.

[Column 2]
	But O, the wondrous melancholy in the
words "fare well." Especially when realiz-
ing that we are about to place between our-
selves and all who are near and dear, thous-
ands of miles of land and sea. We are
burdened with the ills that may befall
them, ere we meet again, oppressed by the 
dangers that lie thick on every hand.
	The parting words are spoken, the famili-
er forms recede from our lingering gaze, 
and we are rapidly borne away from those
we hold most dear. We now begin to
wonder how we could have made such a 
mistake as to imagine that a trip to Europe
could possibly be a pleasure.
	These feelings are however of but short
duration, as we are lured from the melan-
choly contemplation, by the jollity of our
traveling companions and the ever changing
aspect of the scenes through which we are 
passing. They were all new and strange,
yet, most interesting to me. Yes, even the 
drear and uninhabited plains possessed an 
attraction; for they brought to my mind,
the many weary pilgrimages which have
been taken across their burning sands. I 
thought of the heroic pioneers, the brave
hand cart companions; and the many tedious
ox-team expeditions which had traversed
them.
	Again Fort Laramie, Council Bluffs, the 
Platte and Missouri rivers, the "Father of 
Waters" and the state of Illinois, each in 
its turn, brought to my remembrance,
tragic scenes and memorable incidents in the 
history of my people.
	Just before reaching Chicago, one of our 
passengers, a lady who had occupied the 
opposite seat to me ever since leaving Og-
den, took advantage of the vacant seat by
my side, and excusing herself for address-
ing a stranger, said she had been led by
our conversation, to surmise that we were
Mormons, was I really a Mormon? When 
I answered in the affirmative, she was yet
not wholly convinced, and asked if I really
meant it, of course I told her that I really 
did; when she began to question me in the
following manner. "Do you believe in 
polygamy?  Have all the men in Utah
from six to ten wives? Dare a woman 
there, refuse to marry a man if he wishes 
her to do so? Are all Mormon women 
forced to marry whether they wish to or
not? Are Mormon men good to their 
wives? etc, I spent some little time in ex-
plaining matters to her and in elucidating
the mysterious conditions of society sup-
posed to exist amid the valleys of the
Rockies.
	She expressed herself as being much
pleased and thanking me said she should
henceforth have a very different idea of the
Mormons. Wished to know if the young 
men who had been sitting with me were 
Mormons also, and thought they were very 
jolly, and fine specimens of the race. I
was highly amused and little dreamed of
the many similar amusing incidents I
should experience ere my return.
	Farther on our journey, when flying
through the beautiful woods of the "Em-
pire State," imagination claimed me for her
own; and I saw amid that newly budding 
forest, a youth devoutly kneeling;—pouring
forth his earnest supplications to the God of
heaven;—pleading for light and understand-
ing yea, for wisdom without stint;—which
the "Good Book" promises shall be given, 
to him that asketh, believing he shall re-
ceive. I note the heavens grow brighter at
the boy's continued praying, and two per-
sonages whose glory the noon day sun doth
dim, descend from their bright dwelling,—


stand they now before the pleader; And one
pointing to the other sayeth, "My beloved
Son, hear Him." In the same region my
mind travels far back to the centuries that
are long gone by. And imagination
pictures the vast congregating of two
great armies; numerous descendants of two
brothers;—now gathering their most power-
ful force for the terrible and final conflict,
which subsequently blotted out from this 
land of promise, two great and powerful
nations. I see Moroni, as sole survivor of
his people, standing midst the great and 
appalling desolation of that dreadful battle-
field.
	He contemplates with bleeding heart, the
marvelous disaster; and ponders over the
 causes which have brought it about.
	I see him deposit a treasure; the re-
cords of these Nations in yonder Mount,
the hill "Cumorah;" so that these tribes or
people, who may, in the time to come, in-
habit this land, may learn of the lives of
these aborigines, and take timely warning
from their destruction.
	And now Moroni is no more. He has
gone the way of all flesh. And centuries
dark and drear pass by. But anon, in
yon glorified and immortal messengers
which flies through the midst of heaven,
behold, the prophet of the Ancient
Nephites. He is earthward bound, and 
wends his way towards the depository of
his long concealed legacy- The time has
fully come. The mandate has been issued,
to release it from its hiding place and send
it to the inhabitants of the earth.
	I note with satisfaction that he entrusts
it, with its mission, to the future prospects,
of the appointed youth, who was praying in
the woods.
	But we must now leave this favored lad
with the sacred record, to their eventful
career, for we have been moving rapidly
onward, and soon find ourselves whirled in-
to the busy metropolis of this great Mod-
ern Nation, which is as unconscious and
unmindful of the bleached bones of that 
highly favored, but alas,now extinct nation, 
as is a newly born babe of the sins of the 
world. 
	And now adieu to serious reflections; to
mental meanderings mid the scenes of yore.
The present demands our undivided atten-
tion, and it is soon monopolized by the
sights that are presented to the natural eye.
	New York, with its scores of crowded
streets, its high and imposing buildings,
its elevated railroads and numerous ferry
boats; its suspension bridge and its many 
rivers, its "Statue of Liberty" and its
great ships to say nothing of the ever 
surging flood of industrious humanity,
which without a lull throngs its busy
thoroughfares, all, all afforded interest,
and were a source of wonder to one so
lately released from the rurality of the
Rocky Mountains.
	My traveling companion was an excellent
guide, especially for one who was as much
a stranger in the place, as were the rest of
us; but he always made a bee line for the 
nearest "Cop" of whom he inquired the
way, and then lost no valuable time in 
finding the place. In this manner we were
guided up through Broadway to the base
or beginning of the Brooklyn Bridge. And
after a rather extended pull, we succeeded
in reaching the huge pillar, column, or pile 
which ever it may be called, from which 
the suspension really begins.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


S. L. CO. W. S. A
---
	The regular monthly meeting of the Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A was held in the 13th,
Ward Assembly Rooms on Tuesday Sep.
20th, 1892, Pres’t. E. Howard presiding.
Opened by singing “Oh Come Come Away”
prayer by E. M. Price. Singing, “Hark
the Sound” etc.
	Minutes of the previous meeting read,
discussed and amended. Some instructive
remarks were made by Pres’t. E. Howard,
Ter. Vice Prest. Emily S. Richards, E. M.
Price and Margaret A. Caine, after which
the program was rendered as follows:
Elizabeth Me. Farlane on the charter con-
ferred upon Salt Lake City from the year
1860, to 1872. E. M. Price had found
what powers, (the Charter) had conferred
upon one half of the inhabitants of Salt
Lake City, and defined the duties and pow-
ers of City officers.
	Prest. Howard read a list of questions to
be answered at the convention in this City
in Oct. E. S. Richards read notice of con-
vention, also list of subjects upon which
information was wanted for the “World’s
Fair” which subjects were discussed by the
ladies present. Miss Maude Pratt again
delighted the association with her lovely
voice, accompanying herself on the organ,
after which the meeting stood adjourned for
one month, at the same time and place.
				C.C. R. WELLS Sec.


SOCIAL REUNION.
---
	A SOCIAL reunion was held on Sept.4,1892,
at the Fourth Ward meeting house,Provo,by
the Relief Society of that ward, for the pur-
pose of sealing up their Jubilee Box; which
it is designed will be opened by the mem-
bers of this Association twenty-five years
hence.
	Singing from L. D. S. Hymn Book.
Opening prayer by Sarah E. Cluff. The
President, Sister Watson, made the opening
remarks, announced the object of the meet-
ing, and greeted all present.
	The papers, principally historical in char-
acter, that were read and deposited in the
box were as follows:
	Minutes of the first primaiy meeting,
together with the organization, was read by
Sister Jane B. Snyder, present President.
Also minutes of the last meeting, together
with a sketch of its progressive steps,
and the sentiments and blessings to those
to whom the paper was addressed. This
association also deposited in the box a bound
vol., Junvenile Instructor No. 26, and the
three children of Sister Sarah E. Cluff,
vol., 25, same publication, a gift to the
Primary Association at the time of opening
the box.
	Sarah E. Cluff read a paper on the first
organization of the Relief Society of that
ward, which occurred on May 1st, 1868.
Gave the names of the officers, and those
who made the organization. All important
changes were noted, and closing remarks
breathed a spirit of love and harmony.
	General address written by Delia Ina
Booth, and addressed to those who should
open the box was read.
	Bishop John E. Booth addressed the as-
sembly, expressed his pleasure in and ap-
proval of what the sisters were doing. Did
not anticipate being present when the box
was opened, but could readily perceive that
it would be an hour of exquisite joy and
sorrow. Was sorry that there were  ecclesi-
astical organizations in the ward as well as


individuals who were not represented, and
fancied that some who came to see the box
opened would turn sadly away and feel that
they had been forgotten or neglected.
Wished to see all the members of the wa
drawn close together, and be one in heart.
	He was followed by Brother Andrew
Watson (Counselor) Sister Mary John,
President of all the branches of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, Anna K. Smoot
President of the Primary Association, Emily
G. Cluff, Counselor to Sister John, and
Mary and Agnes Farr, and others.
	There was also a history of the ward by
Bishop John E. Booth; pictures of the offic-
ers of nearly all the Church organizations,
books, letters, mementoes etc., deposited in
the box. The dedicatory prayer was offer-
ed by Bishop Booth,and the honor of finally
closing up the box was delegated to Brother
William Harrison.
	In the evening a fruit festival was given,
which was well patronized, and a thorough
success.
							E. J.


W. S. A. REPORT.

	On September 28, 1892, the Woman Suf-
frage Association of Ogden City met in the
Educational Institute of the Fifth Ward.
	Mrs. E. Y. Stanford presiding at the re-
quest of President Brown whose health did
not admit of her being present. Sarah
Richards offered an appropriate opening
prayer, Ella Smith Winters read an essay,
her own composition from a back number
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT entitled “Wo-
man’s mind equal to man’s.”
	Mary Cole next entertained the ladies
with the “Song that reached my heart.”
This young lady is one of the sweet singers
on the Weber and her effort on this occasion
was enchanting, it “reached the heart of
all.”
	The Hon. Joseph Stanford was then in-
troduced as having been solicited by the
committee to lecture before the association.
	This gentlemen said it was well known
that he was in sympathy with, and an ad-
vocate of woman suffrage and he advised a
persistent, firm advocacy on the part of wo-
men for the right of franchise. It was woman’s
privilege to be elevated to the possession
and enjoyment of all that man aspired to
attain to in an intellectual and useful life.
There existed in woman’s nature and being
all the attributes, faculties and senses to be
found in man, why should they remain in
her dormant, uncultivated and undeveloped.
	It would add much to the sweetness of
man’s existence and the pleasures and in-
fluence of home to make her his companion
in the broader sense of the term. He be-
lieved that when the sexes come together
nearly on an equality in education, where
the woman’s mind had been trained and
informed on all subjects accessible to man
that she would make a better wife and
mother, than the untutored and unculti-
vated and consequently ignorant mother
could possibly do; posterity would also be
benefited by such equality for as features,
traits in character and physical defects are
in part transmitted to posterity, so are the
good parts and qualities of our being, and
what greater boon or legacy can parents
confer upon offspring than the benefits de-
rived from their mutually developed mental
and moral natures.
	The speaker made extensive references to
events in the past history of the world in
support of the theory of the ability of wo-


man to become the equal of man, also to
the experience and philosophy of the pro-
fessors of anatomy on the brain power of
both male and female.
	He advised a pacific policy towards the
male sex,so as not to antagonize their cause
with man by hostile speeches and addresses
because some men are opposed to Woman
Suffrage, many men did so oppose in all
sincerity and honesty, having a high regard
for woman and a wish to preserve her
especially from the crude, ungovernable
passions and unclean distasteful habits ex-
hibited by many men who engaged in
political and other pursuits common to pub-
lic life; such opponents at the present over-
look the fact that woman's presence would
cleanse and purify the ranks and elevate the
tastes and feelings above such practices.
	He remembered as good doctrine an
article in the Deseret News suggesting to
the ladies of these associations not to ally
themselves to either political party, they
had nothing to gain by so doing but on the
other hand, for reasons which the speaker
gave, they might prejudice their cause.
	A vote of thanks was tendered Mr. Stan-
ford for his able, instructive and entertain-
ing lecture.
	The subject of the World's Fair was then
taken up and considered and the ladies
present were urged to attend a meeting
called by the ladies committee of Weber
County to be held in the City Hall on
Saturday next.
	Vice President, Mrs. Hilliard suggested
that the committee on programme arrange
for a suitable recognition to be made in
reference to the 4th century anniversary of
the landing of Columbus, at our next meet-
ing.
	The event would be celebrated on the
21st of October throughout the whole of
America. Several new members were
added to the association. By the attend-
ance at this meeting, much the largest ever
held in Ogden, it was evident that an in-
creased interest is being awakened in the
rights of woman in this locality.
	Meeting adjourned for one month.
				LIZZE STANFORD, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
PACIFIC  COAST WOMEN’S PRESS
	ASSOCIATION. 
	The P. C. Women’s Press Club, of San
Francisco, has some very fine types of wo-
manhood in its enrollment.  As I dropped
into its annual convention, now being held
in that city, I scanned the faces with a good
deal of interest and listened with a good
deal more to the remarks that followed one
another in quick succession.
	The afternoon was devoted to a sym-
posium on the referred resolution of the N.
E. A., in May last, and was the subject of
much caustic wit,sound sense and a remark-
able variety of opinions.  The ladies were
limited to five-minute speeches, or papers,
and were generally within the limits.
The resolution, which was virtually laid on
the table by the visiting editors, was this,
offered by Miss Mary Allen West, Editor of
the Union Signal, and President of the Ill.
W. P. A. 
	Resolved. That we, as an Editorial As-
sociation, protest against the publication of
details of crime, reports of divorce courts,
and other demoralizing matter, and desire
to put ourselves on record as recognizing 
the truth that report of honorable deeds is

[column 2]
as much news as reports of crime, and more
worthy of record by the public press.
	This referred resolution was left by the
junketing editors to die a natural death.
The editors were going out that evening,
probably under police escort, to the China-
town slums, or some other equally interest-
ing and filthy city suburb; and, by the way,
what is the reason that the Eastern people
have such a ravenous appetite to see the
slums of San Francisco?  Do they return
the compliment by trotting out California
visitors to their Barbary Coasts?  They
crowd into the suffocating Chinese theatre
and endure smells enough to foster all the
microbes that may be floating about, and
make nests somewhere about their persons.
They tramp up and down alleys and by-
ways, and underground dens, with the
most persistent curiosity.  And then they
say, “Oh, my! how can you endure it?”
I believe they generally call the object of
their visits “scabs on the body politic,” or
some other equally euphonious name.
	We don’t endure it.  We don’t go to see,
hear, taste or smell it.  But this is a di-
gression.
	Alice Carey Waterman led off in a brisk,
pertinent, incisive paper on “Resolutions
as Levers,” said what she had to say, said
it well, covered her points, drove them in
and sat down within the time limit.  Then
the resolution of Miss West was stood up
to be snowballed, and the way those wo-
men went at it, giving a dig now and then
in a sly aside at the National Editorial As-
sociation, was a revelation.  The Press as
an Educator—What constitutes News in a
Weekly Paper—News or Gossip?—Theory
and Practice—Limitations of a Country
Editor—The Survival of the Fittest—News
from the Editor’s Standpoint—Ditto from
the Reader’s Standpoint—Reporter, Fashion
Editor, Story Writer, Dramatic Critic, etc.,
etc.—all that goes to make up a paper.
Every spoke in its wheel revolved round
that resolution.  What did they say?
What did they not say? They talked to 
some purpose.  Criminal advertisements
brought out a scorching, scathing rebuke;
those not openly criminal, but the “Mas-
sage,” the “Fortune teller,” the “Meet me
at Nine o’clock,” the ads. wrapped up in
insinuations of how to be beautiful.  These
were unrolled, and their hidden poison un-
veiled.  It was news to some there, it was
evident.  But the probes were covered with
a delicate lace of words that conveyed mean-
ing without coarseness, that cut to the
quick like a surgeon’s lance, but were as
carefully handled.
	The necessity and advantage of news—
as news—was discussed with a keen sense
of the distinction between news and gossip.
The Bible was as full of revelations of sin,
murder and licentiousness as of the records
of heroism, virtue and righteousness.  Cain
was there, but Cain’s punishment was great-
er than he could bear.  The retribution was
held up as well as the crime.  Ergo: it was
well not to hide crime, lest it might escape
punishment.  Next, news-papers supplied
the demand.  If the demand was for the
prize fight it was the fault of the people,not
the paper, What made the paper—the
people?  or did the public make it?
	Sunday papers and their moral or immor-
al effect on the rising generation, etc.
	It was a ringing, clear, loud call for re-
form.  It was a justification of editorial
concession.  It was an exposé of the control
of corporations,of fees to lawyers—shysters,
rather—it was a noble defense of the honest

[column 3]
lawyer, of the conscientious controllers of 
the press.  It was an admission of its weak-
ness, it was a supporter of its strength.
And who are the women who constitute
the strength of this association?  Perhaps
some day I may individualize them.  They
are worth it.  But they are reticent,modest,
do not seek notoriety.  There is variety
among them, without which there would 
be no spiciness.  Some of them are well
known as writers, editors, journalists,
authors, poets and philanthropists.  Some
are unfledged as yet, but they will fly one
of these days.  They are not all gifted, all
wise, all learned,but the material is beyond
praise, and the unknown and uninvited
visitor passed out with a deep respect and
great appreciation of the Pacific Coast Wo-
men’s Press Association.—The Journalist.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.

	At the business meeting of the National
Council of Women of the United States,
held in Chicago in May, the resignation of
the Vice-President, Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer,
was presented and accepted with expres-
sions of regret. Mrs. Clymer’s condition
of health made it imperative that she should
accede to the advice, of her physician, and
resign all official positions in the various
organizations with which she was con-
nected.
	Miss Clara Conway, of Memphis, Tenn.,
was unanimously elected to the vacant of-
fice. Miss Conway has accepted the posi-
tion and looks forward to active participa-
tion in the work of the Council, in which
she is deeply interested.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
		OF THE UNITED STATES.

	THE organization which has at heart the
best interests of the children, the Interna-
tional Kindergarten Union, has entered the
National Council of Women of the United
States.
	The President of the Union is that well-
known Kindergartner, Mrs. Sarah B.
Cooper of San Francisco, and, through the
membership of the Union in the National
Council, she becomes a Vice-President of
the latter organization, thus adding a
valuable co-worker to the Executive Board
of the Council.
	The Kindergarten Union has shown its
wisdom by appointing Mrs. Cooper to rep-
resent the Kindergarten idea on the
Honorary Committee of the World’s Con-
gress of Representative Women to be held
next year in Chicago under the joint
management of the Woman’s Branch of the
World’s Congress Auxiliary and the Na-
tional Council of Women.


PUNDITA RAMABAI opened her school in
the new home July 26.  The editor of the
Bombay Guardian calls the opening day
"a red-letter day," and the Sharada Sadan
"an accomplished fact." An interesting
feature  of the evening exercises was an ad-
dress by Mrs. Ranade, wife of an eminent
judge, an orthodox Hindu.  The school
has now thirty-four child widows and ten
non-widows, and it seems to have the con-
fidence and sympathy of the leading people 
of Bombay.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S NEWS. 

	Following are the committees appointed
for the new Year for the W. P. A.

			FINANCE.
	Nellie B. Eyester, Sarah B. Cooper,
Hannah Neall, Agnes Manning, Ruthella
S. Bolland, Isabel Raymond. 
			PRESS.
	Florence P. Matheson, Mary Lambert,
Maude Peaslee, Mrs. Sexton, Priscilla Al-
den, Virginia S. Hilliard.

		PUBLICATION. 
	Gregory Flesher, E. Hanson, Sarah
Reamer, E. D. C. Edholm, Emmeline
North. 
			VISITING.
	Mrs. Geo.  T.  Gaden, J. O. Newhall,
M. R.  Johnson, D. W.  Gelwicks, S. J.
Darling, Marian Taylor.

		PROGRAMME.
	Adeline Knapp, Nettie B. Wilcox,
Charlotte P. Stetson, Mrs. Endrea, Alice
K. Cooley, Alice C. Waterman, Mrs. Shuey,
Sarah Pratt Carr, Mary V. Lawrence.

		RECEPTION.
	Lillian Plunkett, Ina D. Coolbrith,Marian
B. Foster, Hattie Cooper, L. H. Smith,
Barbara Knell, Leila Ellis, E. O. Smith,
Frances Edgerton, Mary L. Hoffman.

		ENTERTAINMENT
	Mrs. Van Pelt, Lillian Plunkett, Florence
Matheson, Mrs. Flesher, Mrs. Gaden, N.
B. Eyester, Adeline Knapp. 
   Mr. and Mrs. Geo. T. Gaden (nee Lewis)
have arrived from the East.  Mrs. Gaden
has received the congratulations of her
numerous friends and has entered upon the
duties of her office that of corresponding
Secretary of the W. P. A. 
			ALMY PRISCILLA ALDEN.
	SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. '92.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Woman's Pharmaceutical Associa-
tion, of Illinois, is planning to conduct a
model pharmacy in the Illinois building at
the World's Fair.

	Mrs. Ethel Gordon Fenwick, a member
of the British Royal Commission to the
World's Fair, is in Chicago, making ar-
rangements for an exhibit of the methods
of nursing in England.

	The conference of women workers to be
held early in November at Bristol,England,
promises to be unusually interesting.
Among the papers there will be one by
Mrs. Fawcett on suggested amendments of
the criminal law.

	Miss Romeyn Shaw, the private secretary
of Mrs. J. Ellen Foster, is a beautiful and a
brilliant woman.  She has the common
sense of a "down east schoolma'am."  She
does all the "meeting" and "addressing"
of the hundreds of callers at the Woman's
Republican headquarters on Fifth avenue.
She is an expert stenographer and a careful
correspondent.

	THE false statements, the half state-
ments, the perversion of facts by which the
political parties seek to promote their suc-
cess, give a sickening sense of something
woefully at fault in our State and national

[column 2]
politics.  How can the rights of women, or
any other just thing, come from men who
cannot, or will not, state the opposing side
fairly and tell the honest truth?—Ex.

	WE are glad to know that the law giving
women the right to vote for school officers
is to go before the Supreme Court in due
form.  The case is sent up from Mt. Vernon,
Ill., where two men were defeated by two
women, and they take it to heart.  We do
not know what are the points at issue, but
if it is on its merits the boys will have to
stay on the outside.—Illinois Suffragist.

ELECTRICITY is measured by volts, ohms,
amperes and watts, which terms are now
frequently seen in the ordinary periodical.
The volt is the unit of electrical pressure;
the ohm is the unit of resistance; the am-
pere is the unit of the strength of the cur-
rent and the watt is the unit of power.
The volt acting upon the ohm produces the
ampere and the watt is the unit of strength
multiplied by the unit of pressure.  A kilo-
watt is one thousand watts and equivalent
to about one and one-third horse power.

	A stock company has been formed by the
Board of Lady Managers of the World's
Fair, and its successful operation will be a
boon to women visiting the Fair.  The
company is known as the Woman's Dormi-
tory Association of the Columbian Exposi-
tion.  Shares are being sold at $10 each, no
person being allowed to hold more than
$100 worth.  Presentation of a certificate
entitles the owner to lodging at the apart-
ments of the Association while in attend-
ance at the Fair, the face value of the cer-
tificate to be applied toward pagment.  The
holders of certificates are entitled to a share
in any profits that may accrue.

	Mr. Josiah Quincy was lately interviewed
in regard to his opinion on woman suffrage,
by the New Your World.  The World
says:
	When he was asked if he thought it was
a fine thing for women to be entering the
political field and "whooping up" cam-
paign issues for the parties which they
favored, he replied:  "If you want my
opinion, take it down as I give it to you."
What follows, therefore, is Mr. Quincy's
view on the subject as dictated by him-
self:
	"I am a believer in woman suffrage, and
am for any movement which leads up to
it.  I see no objection to the participation
of women in politics.  I believe it would
be a wholesome and beneficial thing if more
political thought and interest could be stimu-
lated among them.
	"In spite of women having no votes they
possess important influence on any subject
to which they may devote their attention,
and they help in the promotion of public
opinion.—Ex.


[column 1]
Class in Obstetries.
	DR ROMANIA B. PRATT
Will commence another Class in Obstetrics
about NOVEMBER 15. A few situations
for Nurses are open in the hospital.
	For further information inquire of DR.
PRATT, Deseret Hospital.
DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
	until 4 p. m.

[column 2]
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her Winter Class in Obstetrics
and Nursing on Monday, October 24.
Address: Dr. Shipp, 18 Main S
	Telephone 383.
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
	Three doors west of Theatre.
	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS
[Rio Grande Western Railway Logo]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
..THROUGH THE..
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr.	Supt.	G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY.


Woman’s Exponent.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
