VOL. 21.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1892.		NO. 2.


CONTENTS.

	Woman's Work—Phebe C. Young. By-Laws,
U. W. P. Club. W. S. A. Reports. Good Words
From Mrs. Boyden. World's Fair Notes. In
Rural England—A Story. Prehistoric Man In
America.
	EDITORIAL:—Notes And Comments. Old
Folks Gala Day. A Good Woman Gone to
Rest. Sarah Griffith Richards—L. L. G. R.
Sad News—Annie D. Stevens.
	Poetry:—Pray—R. M. F. Midsummer—E. B.
W. Romance—F. D. S. To "Jennie"—Annie.


PRAY.

'TIS a time of trial my sisters
	A time when we all need to pray;
And call on our Father for wisdom,
	To guide us through each coming day.

'Tis a day when we need His succor,
	A day when we need to be strong;
For Satan is gath'ring his forces,
	The line of the battle along.

Our paths are bestrewn with temptation,
	Snares and traps for our feet are laid;
And often we trip by the wayside,
	And oft from the path we have strayed

We find as we travel huge boulders,
	That seemingly block up the way,
E'en shut out the sunlight of heaven;
	Now here says the tempter you’ll stay—

You'll surely not try to go farther,
	You'd better turn round and go back;
The way I will show you is fairer,
	And smoother and broader the track.

Tis then we must gather our courage,
	And muster our strength for the fray;
To baffle the cunning of Satan,
	Ah! then is the time we must pray.

Then steals through the darkness a sunbeam,
	A voice whispers softly and low;
I hear you my daughter come hither,
	I'll lead you the way you should go.

Up! up! with new courage we clamber,
	Our faith and hope once more renew;
When lo! we have mounted the boulder,
	And light has burst forth on our view.

Whenever you're borne down with sorrow,
	Or the tempter seeks to waylay;
Go waft your petitions to heaven—
	God pity the soul that can't pray.
			R. M. F.


MIDSUMMER.

'Tis midsummer time, and the new-mown hay,
Lies fresh in the meadows over the way,
The breath of the cowslips and clover bloom,
With the midsummer hay yield a sweet perfume;
And it wafts us back to the by-gone days,
And memory's music around us plays;
And we e'en forget, we are growing old,
As the past with its joyous scenes unfold.


There's the girls and boys as they us'd to be
Chatting and sporting in their youthful glee,
The meadows resound with the merry shout,
Of their voices, so clearly ringing out
In laughter, and song as they rake the hay,
In the sunshine bright on a July day;
And the broad fields are of their beauty shorn,
And off to the bams the hay-loads are borne.

How many summers are over and gone,
How many dear ones, and bright hopes have
	flown;
How oft the flowers have blossom'd and died,
Since in midsummer time a happy bride
Left home and friends, and was borne away,
Just when the meadows were teeming with hay;
The roses and daisies their bloom had shed,
But Juniper berries were ripe and red.

And the humming-bird’s nest swung in the
	breeze,
From the verdant boughs of the Juniper trees;
And the happy lovers gazed on the nest
And thought of the home they'd make in the
	West;
As perfect and charming the home-nest should be
As the tiny thing swinging there from the tree.
Alas! for the bird, the nest, and the mate,
Left alone, to suffer a cruel fate.

And when midsummer ev'ry year returns,
The bird for its mate instinctively years;
But the Juniper tree, and the open door.
Are standing there now, as they did of yore,
And the sunshine floods in amber and gold,
The forests and meadows, just as of old,
But we look in vain for a simple token
Of the lover's vows, that there were spoken.
			E. B. W.


[Column 1]
﻿
WOMAN'S WORK.

	WHAT is it! when did it begin; when will
it end? what is its object and ultimate re-
ward?
	These are questions the answers to which
might fill a volume, and I am fully aware
how impossible it will be in the limited
space of one short article to do justice to
this vast and important subject. If we
should ask when did woman's work begin?
Our minds must travel back to the time
when the earth was new and fresh and fair
from the hands of its Creator. When man
was placed upon it then woman was quickly
by his side, herself the fairest of all and her
influence was quickly felt for good or evil;
but it was when mother Eve heard the cry
of her firstborn and called out in the first
exultation of motherhood, I have gotten a
man from the Lord, that woman's work
really began:

	To be a Mother. Oh that name!
	How hath it filled the world with fame,
	For men of fame had not been here
	Had it not been for mother dear.

	Then when we think upon the myriads
that since that time have been been ushered
upon this mortal stage, with the full knowl-
edge that woman has always been the chief
actor in the scenes then enacted, and reflect
upon the helplessness of infancy and the

[Column 2]

part that woman takes in guiding its first
steps and combating the dangers that beset
the human race in the first stages of its ex-
istence, the nights of watchfulness and days
of care through which she must pass in
order to accomplish this, if she does this
successfully we think her fortunate and yet
her work is only just begun for she must
play her part as a helpmeet for man, she
shares his sorrows and helps him bear his
burdens, often taking a double portion, not
only raising her family but also assisting to
provide for them; but this is a labor of love
and happy is the woman who can afford to
devote her labor and her heart's best en-
ergies for the good of husband and children
in a home where the ruling power is love.
	But often much as we love to contemplate
such a state we are compelled to acknowl-
edge in this day of progress and civilization
that tens of thousands of women must stand
alone. They must fight the battle of life
single handed and seek out vocations for
themselves. Woman can no longer shelter
herself behind her weakness and say I have
no occasion to know anything but house-
hold work and the needle. The woman of
today is called upon to take her part in the
world's work and there are positions for
which she is particularly fitted.
	Woman as a physician has been eminent-
ly successful and there is no place in which
she can labor to better advantage or with
more benefit to herself and others. It has
been conceded that woman as a writer com-
pares well with her brother man, and that
as a writer of fiction she cannot be excelled.
Woman should be careful how she uses so
great a talent. It is said "the pen is
mightier than the sword," and truly it is a
great power for good or evil in the hands of
any that can wield it well.
	As a teacher in schools woman is recog-
nized as capable and efficient and is permit-
ed to perform her full share of labor both in
our private and public schools although per-
haps not always rewarded according to her
merits; in this vocation woman can exercise
great power for good inasmuch as she de-
sires to use the influence she possesses over
the young placed under her charge, and not
only seeks to employ the best method for
imparting the lessons she is expected to
teach that will enable them to take their
places amongst the educated and refined,
but will also strive to implant in the minds
of those she teaches the principles of virtue
and morality and educate the heart as well
as the head.
	I once heard a Professor make the start-
ling assertion that if something were not
done in this respect, some of the institutions
of learning would in a littie while turn out
intellectual monsters; because of the ab-
sence of those moral principles of virtue and
right that are a guiding star to the feet of
youth. In this respect woman may do
much both by her influence and example to
bring about a better state of things.
	But these avenues that may be considered
by some the higher branches of woman's
work are not open to all, and they who are
fortunate enough to be able to enter them
must not look down on, or despise their
humbler sisters. There are thousands of


patient and noble women toilers; doing their
full share of the world's work, that are
scarcely thought of or noticed and yet it is
the result of their labors that brings about
much of the comfort enjoyed by the rest, in
fact the world could not get along without
them; and it should be remembered that it
is the self-educated, self-sustaining men and
women that often reach the highest mark.
	It is part of woman's work to be an angel
of mercy to the sick and suffering, and oh let
her not forget to show mercy to the weak
and erring ones, there is no need to preach
purity to the pure, cleanliness to the clean.
No need to bring water to the springs and
fountains and pleasant places; but strive to
enrich the barren and thirsty land; those that
see do not need their eyes to be opened for
it is the blind that would rejoice in the light
of day, could they behold it; it is not those
that walk in pleasant paths with roses be-
neath their feet that need the rough places
to be smoothed down and the briers and ob-
structions to be removed from their pathway.
It is not the whole that need a physician,
but the sick and suffering, therefore is it the
peculiar work of woman to seek out the
weak and erring ones, especially the young
and pliable; who have perhaps erred through
the heart's best affections or what would
have been if properly directed. Let them
not be cast out to pursue the downward
road, but deal with them in mercy, lead
them back to the paths of virtue and honor
if possible and teach them a better way, for
as the Poet expresses it,

		Oh was it spoken
Go ye forth. Heal the sick, lift the low, bind the
	broken!
Of the body alone. Is our mission then done.
When we leave the bruised hearts, if we bind the
	bruised bone?"

	This is an age of the world when all
brave, true-hearted women are needed to
work as reformers, to assist in solving some
of these social problems that agitate the
minds of thinking men and women today;
one thing is certain, if every woman was
standing in her proper place and doing her
proper portion of the world's work there
would be no social problems to solve.
	But this is not so, and confusion prevails
and many wrongs there are to be set right
and women should work for this end and
not be discouraged because these things can
not be accomplished in a day. The world
has been going wrong for ages in this re-
spect; and how long it will take to put
things right we do not know. Bye and bye
the cry, will go forth to the watchers, what
of the Night? And the answer will be,
The Morning breaks. The day cometh,
the day of emancipation from oppression;
the day of freedom and equality of Human
Rights.
	And will man stand there to be crowned
with the victor's wreath alone? No! Wo-
man will be by his side, his counselor and
fellow laborer, and in that day she will re-
ceive her full reward in justice for all her
labors and many will arise and call her
blessed for the burdens she has borne and
she will see the result of her toil and all
will rejoice that woman has lived and 
worked.
		PHEBE C. YOUNG.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE London Woman's Herald publishes
three hundred and sixty-two names of wo-
man suffrage candidates now in the field for
Parliament.


BY-LAWS.

UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB.

ARTICLE I.

	Par. I. A regular meeting of the club
shall be held at the EXPONENT parlor on the
last day of each month; unless the date or
place of meeting be changed by a two-thirds
vote of the members present at any regular
meeting.
	Par. 2. The October meeting of each
year shall be the annual meeting. At this
meeting officers shall be elected for the en-
suing year.

ARTICLE II.

	Par. I. Applications for membership
must be presented in writing. After the
approval of the credential committee the ap-
plicant may be received by a majority vote
of the members present. Membership fee
one dollar.

ARTICLE III.

	Par. I. Annual dues shall be one dollar
payable in October and become delinquent
sixty days after the annual meeting.
	Par. 2. No member whose dues are not
paid, shall be entitled to vote.
	Par. 3. Every appointee of the regular
programme who fails to fulfil the part as-
signed her shall be fined twenty-five cents.
	Par. 4. Every member present or ab-
sent except honorary, shall be taxed ten
cents per month to pay for refreshments.

ARTICLE IV.

	Par. I. Honorary members, the number
not to exceed five, may be elected by unani-
mous vote of the club.

ARTICLE V.

	Members may bring friends to meeting,
by paying ten cents for each one, no one
visitor however shall be allowed to attend
more than three meetings during the year.

ARTICLE VI.—Quorum.

	Any presiding officer together with three
regular members shall constitute a quorum
to do business at any regular meeting.

ARTICLE VII.

	All meetings shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with parliamentary law. The
Woman's Manual of Parliamentary Law,
by Harriette R. Shattuck shall be author-
ty.

ARTICLE VIII.

	The by-laws may be amended at any
regular meeting by a two thirds majority
vote of members present.


[Column 1]

W. S. A. REPORTS.

	WOMAN SUFFRAGE AT MAPLETON.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	I thought a few lines from the little villa
East of Springville namely Mapleton, would
be of interest to some of your many readers.
In company with myself, Mrs. Hall, Mad-
sen and Hayward visited the Woman Suf-
frage Association of the above named place
by invitation, and found a cordial reception.
There were eighteen members present and
all enthusiastic in the cause of woman, and
we were informed that if our meeting could
have been in the evening the men also
would have turned out, as they were much

[Column 2]

interested in the cause.  We urged upon 
them the necessity of taking the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT also the Woman's Tribune as
an incentive to woman's progressive powers;
of her becoming a factor in the political, as
well as the social arena of life. The
speakers referred to the progress that was
being made in nearly every hamlet and
village in the civilized world and that we 
must not allow ourselves to be left in the 
rear, but keep wide awake to every specia
of reform which aims at the elevation of our
race. We are slowly but steadily trying to
impress upon women the necessity of identi-
fying themselves with our cause, which we
know will finally triumph, because it is the
cause of right.
		Yours in the Gospel,
			SARAH A. BOYER.
	June 22, 1892.

S. L. COUNTY W. S. A.
	The Salt Lake County W. S. A. met as
per adjournment on June 21st, 1892. Presi-
dent Elizabeth Howard in the chair. Open-
ed by singing, "A search for freedom."
Prayer by Maria M. Holt, and singing "Oh
come, come away." Several new members
were voted in. Minutes of the last meeting
were read and approved, and roll called. A
call for agents representing the Association
in the different wards, was responded to by
Mary P. Silver, of the 19th Ward, Emma
Finch of the 20th, E. M. Price of the 15th,
and Eliza Barton of the 21st wards each giv-
ing reports of their labors. Dr. Elvira S.
Barney also reported having held meetings
in several wards, appointed agents, sold
books, received subscriptions for suffrage
papers, etc. Mrs. Price suggested a train-
ing class in politics, that we might improve
our time to better advantage than merely
meeting together and talking upon those
subjects.
	President Howard favored Mrs. Price's
idea of a training class, and requested her to
study it up; gave a report of her visit to
San Juan, and read some questions which
we were required to answer for use at the
World's Fair, concerning women's work,
and thought that if the Relief Society in all
its branches were properly represented, it
would make a grand showing; announced
that the Association would go to Calder's
Park on the 1st of July, taking their picnic,
and asked them all to bring their friends.
	Miss Maud Pratt was unanimously sus-
tained as suffrage agent of the 17th Ward,
also pleased the audience very much by her
fine singing, accompanying herself on the
organ. After which Elizabath Mc'Farlane
read some very interesting descriptions of
women's work, intended for exhibition at
the World's Fair. M. E. Bassett agent for
the 2nd Ward, read some extracts aud made
remarks, C. C. R. Wells and Dr. E. S.
Barney gave some of their views concerning
the present status of woman, and meeting
was adjourned until the third Tuesday in
July, at the same time and place. Singing
"New America." Benediction by E. M.
Price.
			C. C. R. WELLS, Secretary.


Miss Anthony attended the Republican,
Democratic and People's Party conven-
tions. A largely attended mass meeting in
the interests of woman suffrage was held in
Omaha during the People's Party convention
and addresses were made by Mrs. Clara B.
Colby, Rev. Anna H. Shaw and Miss An-
thony.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ROMANCE.

SHE didn't like me when we met,
	But turned away and pouted;
'Twas very cool, I own, to get
At first a snub so final; yet
	I clung to hope and doubted.

Strange as it seems, a few short weeks
	Confirmed my sanguine guesses;
I came to understand her freaks,
And even dared to kiss her cheeks
	And stroke her golden tresses.

So time went on, and as we grew
	To know each other better,
She bravely learned to kiss me, too;
And when she strangely tried to woo,
	Somehow I used to let her.

The privilege still yet is mine
	With kiss her lips to smother;
Still 'round my neck she likes to twine
Her soft, white arms. I'll drop a line,
	I guess, and ask her mother.

This rhyme produces envy—strife,
	Within your reason, maybe;
So let me take a leaf from life:
Her mother is my darling wife,
	And she my blessed baby.
		F. D. S., in Rochester Talisman.


TO "JENNIE."

DEAR "Jennie," hast thou gone to rest?
	And shall we never see
Thy baby form in merry play,
	Thy face in childish glee?
Art laid within the silent tomb
	Forever there to sleeep?
And shall we always mourn thy loss?
	And shall we always weep?

Ah, no! we lay your little form
	Away in robes of white,
That little form so cold, from which
	The spirit took its flight;
Those large round eyes of blue are closed,
	Their laughing look has fled—
Yet oh! there comes a voice to me,
	Which says you are not dead.

How much we miss you, "Jennie" dear,
	No heart but ours can tell;
But He who gave has called you hence
	He doeth all things well.
His spirit whispers words of peace 
	To every sorrowing heart,
And tells us we shall meet once more,
	But never more shall part.

We came to this far-distant land
	Obedient to His will—
He has in wisdom taken you—
	May we prove faithful still,
And ever tread the narrow path
	That we may meet you there,
When death shall come to call us home 
	From sorrow, toil and care.

The dear fond hopes which filled our hearts,
	Of you in future years,
Are banished from them now, or drowned
	Beneath a flood of tears;
Yet while they disappear from view,
	A brighter looms above,
That we shall meet and know our babe
	In realms of endless love.
			ANNIE.


Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake will
speak at the Chautauqua Assembly, Har-
risonburg, Va., on Aug. 15, which is “Wo-
man’s Day.”


GOOD WORDS FROM MRS. BOYDEN.

	A PERSONAL letter to the Editor from Mrs.
C. Louise Boyden the elocution teacher who
sojourned for a period of about two years in
this City informs us of her arrival at her
own home in Wisconsin, where she is en-
joying a brief season of restfulness ere she be-
gins her work again, this time perhaps in
Chicago until after the Columbian Exposi-
tion when we ardently hope she may return
again to Utah.
	Mrs Boyden has made many warm friends
here who will cherish her memory and hope
for her return. She gave quite a number
of entertainments wirh her pupils in differ-
ent parts of the City, and succeeded in her
efforts in imparting instruction in the Del-
sarte method very well, but financially she
did not make sufficient to warrant her re-
maining permanently though she was much
attached to the place and the people and
speaks most kindly of them everywhere, and
at all times.
	Mrs. Boyden’s methods and practise of
teaching are excellent and she is a most
agreeable and pleasant as well as intelligent
young woman. We are very sorry that she
did not find it to her advantage to remain
here, not only on her own account but also
as there are many of our young women,
who are called to fill public positions, who
would be greatly benefitted by her system
of teaching.
	The lady is a fine musician has formerly
been a music-teacher, but gave it up as too
trying upon her nervous system; and she is
also a writer, while here she joined the Utah
Woman’s Press Club, and was an interested
member; she wishes to be kindly remember-
ed in love to the ladies of the Club, and has
spoken very sweetly of her stay in this City,
she says: “From the quiet repose of my
own dear home, my thoughts go out to you,
so far, far away and dear memories of that
beautiful City of the Saints come hovering
around me as I sit and muse on those hap-
py months I passed there. I am having a
most enjoyable time and a much needed rest
here within the shelter of my lovely home
to which from its calm restfulness and
beauty I have given the name Solitude;
for that word to me expresses beauty as well
as quiet and rest. How I wish you might
enjoy it all with me; rest beneath the shade
of these grand old oaks and be free for a
little while from all the work and strain of
life; I think you would almost feel the fresh-
ness of youth returning to you; everything
is so fresh and sweet here, the song of the
birds, the fragrance of grass and flowers and
the pure air.”
	I hope here to regain all I have lost of my
former vigor and be ready for my work in
the fall. ’Tis very sweet to be at home
with my aged father and meet the old friends,
but I do not forget the new and dear ones
whom I have left behind, and a feeling of
sadness comes o’er me when I think of the
many miles between us. But Hope ever
near to comfort whispers I shall meet you
all again. My time was so limited toward
the last, that I missed seeing many of my
friends to say Good bye, which I regretted
very much.”


MRS. MARGARET E. SANGSTER, the edi-
tor of Harper's Bazar, and Mrs. E. P.
Terhune (Marian Harland) expect to hold
a Woman's Council at the Monona lake
Assembly, Madison, Wis., about the mid-
dle of July.


WORLD’S FAIR NOTES.

	THE administration building will have a
mosaic floor costing $5,000. 
	A COLLECTION of finely mounted birds
and animals will be shown in the Pennsyl-
vania building.
	IT is announced that the Virginia Expo-
sition board intends to reproduce at the
Fair, Mount Vernon, the famous home and
last resting place of George Washington.
if this is done a large and interesting col-
lection of Washington relics will be exhibit-
ed in the structure.
	THE Portuguese minister at Washington
has made application for space in the Wo-
man’s building at the World’s Fair for ex-
hibits from the women of Portugal.
	ACCOMMODATIONS for musical entertain-
ments at the World’s Fair have been decided
upon, and the construction of the neces-
sary buildings has been ordered. They in-
clude a recital hall, seating 500 people; a
music hall, with accommodation for 120
players, 300 singers, and an audience of
2,000; a festival ball for performances upon
the largest possible scale, with 200 players,
2,000 singers and an audience of 7,000. The
music hall will contain a fine concert organ,
and in festival hall will be placed an organ
for chorus support.
	Commissioner L. A. Thurston, of Hawaii,
has received word from Claus Spreckles
that the Hawaiian exhibit will be trans-
ported to San Francisco without charge.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer has decided to sup-
plement her work in inviting the nobility
of Europe to organize committees to help
the Board of Rady Managers by sending
similar invitations to influential women in
South America. These invitations will be
sent out by the state department at Wash-
ington. The letters sent to Europe resulted
in securing the co-operation of many of the
most prominent women abroad.
	A syndicate, representing men of influence
and money in both Austria and the United
States, is making arrangements to produce
in Chicago during the World’s Fair the
famed Passion Play exactly as it has been
given for centuries, at intervals of ten years,
by the people of Ober-Ammergau, Bavaria.
The syndicate is incorporated as “The Orig-
nal Ober-Ammergau Passion Play As-
sociation,” with capital stock of $800,000.
It is reported to be the intention to present
the Passion Play in Chicago with the same
cast and same costumes as were employed
at its presentation at Ober-Ammergau in
1890.


A GOOD word for women students comes
from Buchtel College, Akron Ohio, via Mrs.
Claypole, who is fortunate in having two
bright and beautiful daughters graduate
there this year.  The young women of the
graduating class take the prizes for the Law
Essay; subject, "Equitable Remedies, their
Development and Place in Our Jurisprud-
ence."  Miss Josephine E. Cheney, of Can-
al Winchester, takes first prize; Edith and
Agnes Claypo!e, of Akron, share the second.
The two young men who competed were
left far behind.  Of the essays that took
prizes an eminent lawyer said they would
have been creditable in the records of the Su-
preme Court.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made lor clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JULY 15, 1892.


NOTES AND COMMENTS.

	OUR San Francisco article is again postponed
but must really come in next time, or be out of
date entirely, though there is little danger of for-,
getting the ladies or the points of special interest.
There is never room enough for all the editorial
matter in our little paper.
	FRIDAY the first day of July the W. S. A. of
Salt Lake County, celebrated at Calder's Park,
enjoying the repose and quiet of the grove, and
having a sail upon the water. Olsen's band is
in attendance at the pavilion and the music was
indeed delightful.  There was a programme of
suitable delightful. These was a programme of
suitable exercises in the afternoon, of which
dainty refreshments formed a part.  At early even-
ing the electric lights beautified the scene and the
boasts upon the water, the music floating in soft
melody made the effect quite exhilarating and
restful.
	THE terrible scenes that have been enacted of
late through the dissatisfaction an inquietude of
the union men who seem determined to ruin the
country in scarcely endurable from a distance,
what people must suffer who are near enough to
be witnesses of the desperate deeds one scarcely
dare imagine.  Surely the nation is in unrest and
what the finale will be unless a radical change is
effected before things have gone too far, is quite
apparent.  A civil war between capitalists and
laborer would be a catastrophe terrifying indeed
and would bring in its train many other horrors.
That such a crisis may be averted and peace take
the place of contention the people should ar-
dently hope, pray and strive to bring about.
Scenes of terror such as have reigned in Pennsyl-
vania and Idaho recently make one's heart quake
with fear for the consequence if not immediately
brought under control.  When mobs take the
law into their hands there is no safety or protec-
tion.  Surely these are perilous times, and we
know not what a day may bring forth.
	ON the 7th inst. in company with president Z.
D. H. Young we attended three meetings at
Willard. It is a pretty little town and we enjoyed
it very much. Several of the sisters came over
from Brigham City and it was a time to be re-
membered.  Sister Hubbard who presides over
the Relief Society there, is a spiritual-minded
woman, and also practical, for the Society is in
excellent condition.  The sisters own a hall and
granary and real estate as well as when one 
hears the circumstances of the building, which is
two stories high, and well finished, other sisters
certainly may take courage therefrom, The
lower front room is rented to the City Council,
and brings them in means to help in other direc-
tions.  It is astonishing what an amount of
energy, pluck and genuine executive ability the
sisters have displayed in accumulating property 

[Column 2]
in the various branches of the Relief Society.
Sometime soon we hope to sum up our visits to
Payson, Grantsville, Nephi and Brigham City and
mention other facts in regard to the progress of
woman's work temporally.
	TUESDAY, July 12, was the birthday anniversary
of Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, and a large party of
her friends gathered at the beautiful grove on the
Howard farm near the old home at Cotton Wood
to celebrate the occasion, for the lady is a great 
favorite among her acquaintances. The people
from the City went down in carriages, the big
Utah conveyed  thirty-two ladies, and other
carriages swelled the number with the home
folks to about a hundred and fifty all told, the
greetings and congratulations were delightful.
	The lady was surprised and astonished but she
is accustomed to playing the hostess to large
companies as also her daughter, Mrs. Kate
Brockbank, and everything went off pleasantly,
picnic in abundance, and of the daintiest varieties,
and a merrier party couls scarcely be imagined.
	Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee, who was the fore-
most in getting up the surprise, had written a suit-
able poem which was read, and other exercises
followed, Nellie C. Taylor recited "The Coquette
Punished," and appropriate remarks were made
by Elders Milo Andrus, C. W. Penrose, S. W.
Richards, Bishop Brinton, and several of the
ladies, Mrs. Howard responding.  Mrs. Mac'Far-
lane sang "The Bells of Shandon." The day was
fine and the company fully enjoyed it.—At the
time of departure Elder Lucas Howard closed
the exercises with prayer.


[Column 1]
OLD FOLKS' GALA DAY.

   	WEDNESDAY, June 29, was another gala day for
the old people, and not withstanding the heat,
and the distance to travel, there were more than
ever before, the Committee of arrangements how-
ever had prepared beforehand so that every one
was made quite comfortable, and the railroad
officials were kind and courteous and the whole
affair proved to be a complete success.
	Soon after starting the old people were regaled
with lemonade, cakes and candy and delicacies
and the smiles upon their faces betokened the
happiness they felt in the pleasure anticipated;
then the choir under Prof. Beesley, serenaded the
occupants of each car which made eighteen sere-
nades, Prof. Evan Stephens came on board in
time to join the singers; Elder W. C. Dunbar
with his bagpipes rendered the "Highland March"
in each of the cars; the train arrived at Payson
about 11.30 a.m. quite a number of aged persons
had been taken on at the several stations on the
way.
	The Payson silver band was playing at the
depot on the arrival of the train, and the Payson
Committee assisted in getting the precious freight
safely unloaded; vehicles were in waiting for all
who wished to ride and new-mown hay was
freshly laid all the way for those who preferred to
walk. The Sunday school children in white,lined
the way on both sides carrying banners and wav-
ing flags, and the Benjamin brass band marched
with the procession rendering suitable music. At
the entrance of the grove was a triumphal arch
with the one word WELCOME, wrought in flowers
which gave a pretty effect to the scene that pre-
sented itself farther on. Long tables were spread
under the trees with sufficient space to seat over
a thousand people, and bountifully supplied with
every luxury of the season; the young men and
girls in national colors were ready and anxious to
render any service and waited upon their honored
guests in the most tender and courteous manner.
	Governor Arthur L. Thomas accompanied the
party and his father and mother were among the
veterans over seventy years of age. The Gov-
ernor went through the cars and shook hands

[Column 2]
with all on board the train, President Angus M.
Cannon escorted him introducing him to the peo-
ple. They shook hands with about 1150 people.
	It was estimated that there were on the grounds
at Payson over 2,500 people, and of this number
about 1200 were over seventy years old. The
oldest person present was Mrs. Rachel Dollinger,
a resident of Payson, aged ninety-four—formerly
of Kentucky, the next oldest lady was Mrs. Sarah
Free, ninety-two—also Mrs. Ann Taylor, nearly
ninety-two—the two last, natives of England;
Mrs. Jane Cornwall ninety, from Ireland, Mrs.
Johanna Jensen ninety, from Sweden, of the
gentlemen the oldest were Joseph Hancock,
ninety-two, and Robert Wimmer ninety, both of
Payson. This comprises the list of those over
ninety years of age.
	The exercises were under the direction
of John Quigley of Payson who acted as master
of ceremonies. The Payson band rendered a
fine selection and prayer was offered by the aged
veteran Robert Wimmer, the "Old Folks choir,
sang a chorus and "Hail Columbia," was given
by Payson and Benjamin bands combined.
   Gov. A. L. Thomas addressed the assemblage,
his remarks were in harmony with the occasion
and expensive of the kindliest sentiments follow-
ing is a brief synopsis:
	"It was a grand sight to see so many aged per-
sons present, notwithstanding the heat, and he
deemed it one of the greatest events of his life to
be present among so many old people, where
such careful attention, respect and reverence
were paid to them. In other States gatherings
of old persons were not uncommon,but they could
not equal Utah in their concern for silvery hairs
and bent forms. There were present many of
the original settlers of the valley, persons who by
their toil and labor paved the way to the comfort
and affluence enjoyed by the present generation.
All honor, respect and veneration were due these
aged veterans; when they first beheld these
valleys nothing but sand, sage and alkali met the
eye. This morning meadows, pasture fields, and
growing crops smiled on every side, the result
more or less of the early labors of these old people
whom he was so glad and proud to meet. This 
was the fourth occasion of the kind at which he
had been present, and he hoped by the aid of
Providence he would meet the old folks many
times in the future. It was well that practical
proof could be given in such a manner of the
goodness in the human heart, in thus honoring
old age and paying respectful homage to the
founders of a progressive community. Future
generations will yet call those pioneers blessed."
	The band played "The Star Spangled Banner"
in fine style, and then came an address of wel-
come written expressly for the occasion by J. L.
Townsend, and read clearly and forcibly by Miss
Annie Worsencroft, tastefully dressed and draped
in the stars and stripes of our country.
	WELCOME.

	OLD FOLKS' REUNION AT PAYSON,
		June 29, 1892.
	Ye who wear the silver crown
		Of a life complete with age,
	Ye whom wisdom gives renown
		By her long-life heritage;
	Old folks everywhere held dear.
		Filled with years three score and ten,
	Welcome, yea thrice welcome here,
		Honored guests of honored men.
	Old folks' day—a cherished though,
		Oft recalled in pleasant dreams;
	Teaching charity unsought
		And that life is what it seems;
	Bright as glow the summer flowers
		Or the ripples of the stream,
	Let these fleeting pleasant hours
		Brightly in thy mem'ry gleam.
	Old folks! Ah! what honor this
		To have lived and toiled for years,
	That as pioneers the bliss
		Of the present now appears.


Then all honor to the brow
			Wrinkled with life’s toil and woes—
		Ye have sown the seed and now
			Blooms the desert as the rose.

		To our city, lovely scene,
			Sparkling with the mountain rills,
		To onr homes and gardens green
			Welcome while the day fulfills
		Every joy that hope foretold,
			Of a time both bright and long.
		Ev’ry thought thine hearts may hold
			Of reunion, feast and song.

		Care hath here no part today;
			Joy shall sing her songs above;
		Faith in every heart shall say:
			“God is near and God is love!”
		Old Folks, Fathers, Mothers dear,
			Ye who wear the silver crown,
		Ye are welcome to our cheer,
			Ye are welcome to our town.

	Mr. John Quigley made a brief and appropriate
address of welcome in behalf of the Payson peo-
ple, and the Payson Quartette sang “Don’t forget
the old folks.”
	President Angus M. Cannon graphically de-
scribed the appearance of the valley in 1847, and
the changes that had been wrought by the dili-
gence, industry, thrift and perseverance of the
early settlers, that had made possible the condi-
tions of prosperity and plenty of the present time.
He paid a touching and eloquent tribute to the
pioneers and veterans, many of whom were pres-
ent, to whom those of a later period owed the
blessings enjoyed so freely and prayed that God
would inspire the youth growing up in these
beautiful valleys of the mountains to reverence
age, and especially those who had been public
benefactors.
	The brass band played a choice selection and
Elder George Goddard in behalf of the Old Folks
Committee, thanked the railroad company for
their generosity and called for a vote of thanks
from the assembly which was heartily accorded.
Mayor Lemon of Payson also spoke briefly and
hoped there might be many more such reunions.
A unanimous vote of thanks was given to the
Payson Committee, and Elder W. C. Dunbar
gave some Caledonian selections uyon the High-
land bagpipes.
	The Rev. A. C. Todd, Presbyterian minister of
Payson, made a very feeling address, dwelling
especially npon veneration and respect for the
aged and the virtues of Christianity, the effect
upon human life, etc.
	Mrs. J. A. Linsdale sang “Father’s Growing
Old,” and Counselor David John thought Old
Folks Day an inspirational idea, and that the re-
spect and love with which these veterans were
treated must give great satisfaction.
	The Presbyterian Male Quartette kindly ren-
dered the appropriate song, “I’m Wandering
Down.”
	C. R. Savage of the Old Folks Committee then
distributed the presents to the aged people of
Payson, every one over seventy had a gift of
something. Those from the City had the ride
and the pastime afforded by the trip out, the
dinner and the good time generally.
	Bishop W. B. Preston spoke briefly upon the
courtesy due to the aged and the beauty of such
an example. The Old Folks Choir, who never
tire in trying to please the company, sang at the
close “Welcome here ye aged veterans,” and
Brother J. B. Nobles offered the benediction.
	The large company were then put aboard the
train arriving home in good time, without any
accident or unpleasantness, the Committee and
the choir doing all in their power for the happi-
ness and welfare of their aged friends, brethren
and sisters on the way back.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A GOOD WOMAN GONE TO REST.

	DIED at the family residence in this City,
Wednesday morning, June 22, 1892, Mrs. Sarah
Elizabeth Groo, after only a brief, but severe ill-

[Column 2]
ness of about thirty hours. The deceased was a
most exemplary and estimable woman in every
respect, of great strength of character which was
plainly manifest throughout her whole life; she
was one to lean upon and trust in. No sacrifice
was too great for her to make to ensure the
happiness of her family, or for the interest of the
Church of which she was ever a faithful member
from the time of receiving the Gospel.
	Mrs. Groo whose maiden name was Gillett, was
born in Sullivan County, state of New York,
March 4, 1827. The Gospel was preached in
that vicinity when she was quite a young girl by
Jedediah M. Grant, when he was only nineteen
years of age. Mrs. Gillett, her mother, was the
first baptism in that locality; her family after-
wards embracing the faith. Mrs. Groo came to
Utah with her father, mother and husband in
1854, and settled in the 9th Ward in this City
where her home has been ever since.
	Like many others she has endured all the hard-
ships incident to those early days, and without a
murmur. She has ever been a fond and tender
mother, and has borne ten children, five of whom
survive her, four sons and one daughter, the
other half have gone on before, and have no
doubt welcomed her ere this, where there will be
no more sorrow or parting.
	She also leaves a husband, Elder I. Groo, and
fifteen grand-children, to whom she was greatly
attached for Sister Groo possessed in the largest
degree the elements and attributes of mother-
hood. She thoroughly enjoyed family life and
home was the place she adorned and in which
she found a special delight. Yet she was called to fill
a prominent public position, to preside over the
Relief Society of the ward in which she lived;
this position she filled with dignity for many
years past, manifesting specially good executive
ability in the administration of affairs which
naturally devolved upon her. She was ever
mindful of the needy, the sick, the sorrowing and
unfortunate and was therefore well qualified for
the place. Her charity was real and without os-
tentation. In her the ward had a true mother
who looked after its best interests, and “in her
tongue was the law of kindness.”
	Her faith in the Gospel never wavered under
any circumstances, and like others who have been
tried she has proven herself loyal to the right.
	She did some work for the dead in the Logan
Temple two years ago, and was making prepara-
tions to do a great deal of Temple work when the
Salt Lake Temple would be completed. She was
one of those noble and grand women, who never
falter in a good cause. Steadfast, industrious
and reliable, descended from the old Puritan
stock, a fair type of the New England women.
	Sister Groo’s whole life was a labor of love,
spent in doing good to those around her, many
are the friends who will miss her kindly deeds,
her comforting words and her pleasant face; but
she has entered into her rest; to the Saint of God
there is no real dark shadow and valley of death,
they but step forth into a diviner light; and they
would not return if they could,
“All dread of the distant future, all fears that op-
	pressed today
Like mists that clear in the sunlight have noise-
	lessly passed away;
Nor call, nor clamor can rouse her from slumbers
	so pure and deep,
For only His voice can reach her who giveth his
	loved ones sleep.
Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that
	her race is run,
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work
	like her’s is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our
	treasures to Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance He giveth his
	loved ones sleep.”


Many are intellectually great, but spiritu-
ally ignorant.


SARAH GRIFFITH RICHARDS.

	On Tuesday, June 7th, 1892, the death of Sister
Sarah G. Richards occurred, at her residence in
the 20th Ward, Salt Lake City.  Her bodily
strength had been gradually failing for a long
time and being in her nintieth year, her death
came not as a surprise to her family and friends.
She had also long expressed herself as looking
forward to the change which she felt was coming
upon her as a happy release from suffering and
worldly anxiety.
	Sister Richards was born in Monmouth, Mon-
mouthshire, England, on the 26th of December
1802. At an early age she manifested an unusual
love for learning, and applied herself with such
diligence and determinination to the gaining of
knowledge in various directions, that she ob-
tained an education of no ordinary degree.  Was
all her life a great reader, and possessed a fund
of information rarely met with.
	Having resolved to dovote her life and energies
to the cause of education, she was still unmarried
at the age of forty, about which time the sound of
the everlasting Gospel reached her ears and pen-
etrated her heart.
	Prospects of worldly wealth and honor seemed
opening up to he;r but she forsook all worldly
interests for the sake of uniting her fortune with
the people whom she knew, by the unerring spirit
of testimony, were the people of God.
	After joining the Church, and emigrating to
America, she was married on the 25th of Decem-
ber, 1843, to Dr. Levi Richards, with whom she
had previously become acquainted while on his
first mission to England.
	Amid the hard and trying persecutions of the
Saints, on the 12th of June, 1845, one child, a son,
was born to them, to whom they gave the name
of Levi Willard.
	Three years later, Dr. Richards was requested
by the presidency of the Church to take a second
mission to England, for five years more. He was
advised to take with him his wife, Sarah. But
as their little one was delicate, President Young
counseled them to send him to the Rocky Moun-
tains with his uncle, President Willard Richards
and his aunt Rhoda, promising them that if they
did so, their boy should live, and grow stronger
and healthier; but saying he could not promise the
same happy results if they attempted to cross the
ocean with him.  The conditions were accepted
by Brother and Sister Richards, keenly as they
felt the trial of such a separation from their only
and tender child; and the promises of the Lord
to them, through His Prophet, were verified.
	Sister Richards had the privilege of receiving
all the ordinances, and of accepting all the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, as far as they have been re-
vealed to the Latter-day Saints, and she was true
to them all.  Possessing an extremely sensitive
nature, the sympathies of Sister Richards were
drawn out towards everything that might suffer.
Little children and dumb animals she always
pitied most, as being unable to tell their pains
and troubles.
	On the occasion of the funeral, which was held
June 9th, in the 20th Ward meeting house, the
speakers were Elder Samuel W. Richards, Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, President Angus M.
Cannon, and Counselor Joseph E. Taylor.
	Mother we miss your form and face,
		Which bow’d with us each day,
	Before the holy throne of Grace,
		To worship and to pray.
	Some may have been of stronger mold,
		Life’s hardships to endure;
	And some more fleet, and some more bold,
		But none more chaste and pure.
	Some may have mightier works begun,
		Found grander things to do;
	But unto God and Jesus, none
		Have been more nobly true.
		L.L.G.R.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SAD NEWS.
FAGALII, UPOLU SAMOA,
June 16th, 1892.
Dear Sister Wells:
	WITH a heart full of sympathy for our dear
Brother and Sister Hilton, I write to inform you
of the death of their dear little baby “Jennie,”
which occurred on the evening of the 4th inst. at
about six o’clock.
	The little one seemed to stand the voyage over
here very well and was doing nicely until about
two days previous to her demise, when she was
siezed with cholera infantum, going into convul-
sions about an hour and a half before death re-
lieved her of her sufferings.
	Brother Hilton, who was at Salovi, about thirty
miles distant, had been sent for but did not arrive
until the next morning.
	A Mrs. Bell and daughters, of Apia, kindly as-
sisted me in preparing the little body for its final
rest, and to the mother’s great satisfaction her
darling was dressed for its burial very prettily,
the little gold ring you gave her being placed 
upon her finger in loving remembrance of “Aunt
Em.”
	The natives brought many beautiful flowers,
which made the bereaved parents feel that they
had many friends, though very far away from 
home.
	Funeral services were held at the Mission
house on Sunday, June 5, at 4:30 p. m., and words
of sympathy and comfort were spoken by Presi-
dent Browning and Brothers Bassett and Thoma-
son. “Jennie” now rests by the side of Sister
Merrill, near the Mission house at Fagalii, and we
are all praying continuously to our Father that
He will send His spirit in rich abundance to com-
fort the hearts of her saddened parents.
	Every thing that could be, was done for the
little sufferer while she lived and we now feel
that it was God’s will and humbly submit to His
decree.
 
	We are all well here at present and enjoying a
goodly degree of the holy spirit. Should you de-
sire it I will endeavor to write you a short article
occasionally and would be pleased to have the
EXPONENT sent me in return.
	Hoping you are well and that every thing pros-
pers in Zion, I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	ANNIE D. STEVENS


U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE U. W. P. Club met as per adjournment,
June 30th, 1892, at the EXPONENT Parlor, Called
to order by the President, E. B. Wells. Opening
prayer by Secretary E. R. Shipp. By-laws read
and voted upon by section—with one or two
amendments accepted unanimously. It was also
decided that the by-laws be printed and distribu-
ted to the members of the club. N. V. Davis
suggested that the secretary furnish a list of the
names of the members to facilitate a better man-
agement of dues, etc. Put as a motion and
carried.
	The President said in any question or proposi-
tion presented to the club for consideration she
desired all to feel free in expressing their opin-
ons. A proposition has been recieved from ab-
sent members that we adjourn meetings for the
summer. After some discussion all agreed that
adjournment even for a brief period would mean
a “death blow to the club,” some on the contrary
would prefer to have semi-monthly sessions, but
in consideration of so many other meetings to be
attended and business of varied character to en-
gage our attention, it was deemed expedient to
hold club meetings once a month regularly the
last day of each month according to by-laws.


The President was anxious that a greater interest
be manifested, that members be more punctual in
attendance and always ready to fill their part of
the programme.
	C. C. R. Wells made a motion which was
carried that Agusta Joyce Crocheron be accepted
as an honorary member of the U. W. P. Club.
	Preliminary business being completed the regu-
lar programme was next proceeded with, some
changes being necessarily made in consequence
of the absence of some of the members.
	N. V. Davis read an interesting paper on
the education of teachers.
	Phebe C. Young read an original article on
“Woman’s Work” touching the subject to the
very centre.
	G. L. Brown furnished an original poem en-
titled “Arouse” which had a tendency to “arouse”
her hearers to renewed diligence and determina-
tion to excel in the divine art of communicating
thought through the medinm of the pen.
	M. E. Shipp sang very sweetly the touching
little ballad “”Tis evening brings my heart to
thee.”
	President E. B. Wells then read an article pre-
pared for the anniversary of Susan B. Anthony’s
birthday, entitled, “What some women have
done.” Giving an account of many ancient hero-
nes which we trust will soon be followed by an
account of the equally wonderful work and ac-
complishments of the illustrious women of our
day.
	Gladys Woodmansee entertained the club with
instrumental music.
	R. M. Fox read an original poem entitled
“Pray”
	Refreshments were partaken of during an ani-
mated discussion on poetical license.
	Programme arranged for July meeting as fol-
lows:
	Half hour for business. M. A. Freeze, Des-
criptive article on journey in Mexico. M. E.
Shipp, Women Physicians. L. S. Dickinson, Poem.
G. Woodmansee, Music. E. B. Wells, Trip to
San Francisco. C. C. R. Wells, Essay. L. G.
Richards, Life and character of her husband’s
mother. G. L. Brown, Music.
	Benediction by M. E. Shipp.
	E. R. SHIPP, Secretary.


[column 1]

	﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.
	XVII.
	THE young naturally seek the confidence
of those to whom they may be attracted, es-
pecially if in doubt or perplexity and young
Walton was not an exception to this rule;
hot-headed and impulsive naturally, and as
a boy indulged in every caprice, he could
not brook real disappointment. While he
was carrying on clandestine interviews at
the adjoining estate and enjoying the ro-
mance of first love’s young dream of bliss,
before the more serious aspect of the affair
became apparent he was thoroughly at ease;
but from the time cousin Jane made such an
important thing of it, he had begun to be un-
comfortable and to wonder what it was best
to do, or whether he ought to try to forget
and leave it all to fate. He was too much
in love for that, he could not remain long
away, and Anna was so demonstrative her-
self ready to renounce everything for his
sake, that sometimes he felt like a veritable
coward.
	On this particular evening Maitland rode
away deeply absorbed in thought, scarcely
caring whither his horse’s head was turned,
one observing him would have thought some
terrible sorrow had overtaken him, and he
really imagined it was so. The horse ac-
customed to going in one direction, needed

[column 2]

little guiding and unconsciously the young
man found himself in the grounds that led
up to the house where his thoughts were at
that very moment, he saw Clair sauntering
along evidently not intent upon anything
except to enjoy the twilight, for the day was
drawing near its close; he drew rein and call-
ed, to his young friend, who hearing the
voice grown familiar during the past few
days, come quickly towards him, and soon
the two young men were deeply absorbed in
confidential conversation; the reader can
judge the subject. Neither of them were
competent judges of the situation, though
both were deeply interested in the one topic
of all others the most fascinating, Lady Anna
Hilliard.
	Clair gave Maitland the best advice pos-
sible under the circumstances which was to
confide his troubles to cousin Jane or the
Doctor or both, adding by way of a recom-
mend, “she is the wisest and clearest-head-
ed woman I have ever seen, she knows how
to manage everything, the tenants tell me,
she could do what no one else was ever able
to with my father, and that “a woman he
would listen to in his sober senses must be
something extraordinary.’’ Maitland was
undecided, he whipped the shrubbery with
his riding whip as if to wake up his ideas,
and finally mounted his horse to ride to-
wards home; when who should come upon
the scene but Doctor Bland returning from
his visit to the poor woman he had kept
so long waiting. The Doctor was in the
best of spirits, and it had its effect upon these
young men; he rallied Walton upon his love-
sick appearance and urged him to come with
him, and spend an hour or two at whist,
and get cheered up before he called upon his
sweetheart.
	“I had no intention of calling to-night, I
am not in the least prepared, I was out of
sorts, and wandered away, little caring
where, but my horse came hither with me
upon his back, I had not the strength to
turn his head in any other direction;” said
Maitland speaking more to himself than to
his friends.
	“And why should you turn him away or
yourself either, do you know that your fath-
er has been here to day, to see Miss Hil-
liard? and he’ll not hinder you from paying
court to the young lady, if you have the
manliness to stand your ground. There’s
nothing like being a hero in the fight, ‘faint
heart never won fair lady,’ and if you would
be successful why you must be brave, wo-
men admire the heroic, not your milk and
water sops, but those who are fond of adven-
ture whether in love or in war; so take cour-
age young man, the game is yours if you
play high; such women don’t like common
place men, who are easily discouraged or
let trifles stand in their way, “the course,
of true love never runs smooth” is an old
saying. Maitland listened more like one
in a dream and finally said, “my mother will
be alarmed if I am long away, to tell you
the truth Doctor I am in no mood for com-
pany, I should spoil your game if I came
with you, tomorrow I may be in better
spirits, and without further explanation, he
bade them good night and hurried towards
Walton Hall. It was late when he arrived
and he went straight to his own apartment,
but his mother who had been watching from
her window came directly to inquire how
he was feeling and whether he had seen An-
na. Mother and son had a long conver-
sation that night, in fact Lady Walton felt it
an imperative duty now to acquaint her boy
with some of the circumstances that had


[column 1]

﻿caused his father to speak so strongly and
so strangely of the Baronet and his affairs.
She told Maitland the truth but not all, and
he was satisfied. “Your father will not in-
terfere further in this matter at present, and
if you wait a reasonable time, I have no
doubt he will consent, he does not believe
you are really in love, if he becomes con-
vinced that your affection for each other is
genuine, he will feel differently, and there
is everything to be hoped for in time.”
	What Lady Walton said was not much in
itself but the confidence she reposed in him
was gratifying to Maitland and he felt sooth-
ed and comforted by the interview; his
mother’s influence was charming and she al-
ways impressed people favorably when she
exerted herself. Miss Conway had not felt
her superiority or fascination for the reason
that she was of a much stronger character,
but with Lady Anna it was different, she
was susceptible to influences and impressions
from others, and stood sadly in need of
strength in those about her; what she might
have been lead to do, had not her cousin
come at an opportune time it is hardly pos-
sible to conceive; fortunate indeed for all
parties that, she arrived at a period in the
young girls life, when a wise counselor was
needed to guide and restrain, her impulsive
nature.
	That night Jane Conway had many reflec-
tions, she had promised to be the wife of the
man who had almost pursued her until she
had yielded to his entreaties one might say,
and yet her own heart had been touched
otherwise she would never have given her-
self into his keeping. What would he ex-
pect now was a thought she could not but
repeat as it were, for it seemed that she could
not much longer be mistress in her uncle’s
house, and a new and entire change in her
mode of life would be necessaiy, what
would this mean for her cousin, how would
it affect the domestic life at the castle, Clair
as well as Anna. Evidently a change must
be brought about sooner or later, and what
would be the easiest and safest method.
Morning came before she had scarcely slept,
and she felt totally unprepared to face the
situation; she almost wished she had per-
sisted in her determination made previously
to remain single and watch over these chil-
dren (for such they were to her) they need-
ed her more than Dr. Bland who had stood
alone so many years; and yet a pang of re-
gret would come when she imagined even
for a moment that she might give him up.
	The days that followed were very much
alike for a few weeks after these stirring
events, the Doctor talked freely of the mar-
riage which he hoped to have consummated
at the earliest possible date consistent with
the circumstances of her uncle’s death, her
term of mourning etc. and Maitland and An-
na were together almost constantly. Lord
Walton,s business had taken him from home
and Lady Walton herself had called frequent-
ly with her carriage and taken Lady Anna to
drive with her in order to become better ac-
quainted and really to see what sort of person
she was likely to be; she often talked to her
of the late Baronet and tried to draw her out
upon family matters finding her almost to-
tally ignorant of these things, she turned
her attention to Miss Conway. She learned
from Clair that his cousin was engaged and
she interrogated him in regard to the changes
this marriage would be likely to bring
about.
	“Who will have charge at the castle
when your cousin marries,she cannot super-
intend two establishments and your sis-

[column 2]

ter is not competent to manage such mat-
ters in fact she has had no experience and is
entirely too young.”
	Clair had never thought of this, Miss
Conway’s marriage seemed in the distance
to him, and he only vaguely comprehended
it now it was explained to him by Lady
Walton; but it set him to thinking, and he
soon made his feelings known to his sister.
He had gone on with a full sense of enjoy-
ment, everything was so pleasant to him
and he was just getting accustomed to the
place and the people, and now his tranquil-
ity was about to be disturbed. “Of course
cousin Jane can advise us what to do,” he
remarked to his sister one day after going
over it in his own mind, “by the bye isn’t
there any relation of the family that could
come here as a sort of housekeeper, or chap-
erone, or be installed in a place of honor, to
keep up the dignity of the place in a way
that would be perfectly proper?” Anna was
as ignorant on the subject as Clair himself
and they could only leave it all to cousin
Jane, and to future developments.
	Time passed rapidly to these young lovers,
for the Doctor and Miss Conway were in
earnest in making preparations, and Mait-
land spent most of his time in the society of
Anna and Clair, for cousin Jane was so oc-
cupied with her wardrobe that she left Anna
more to his watch care, and she found him
perfectly reliable. Clair enjoyed every
moment of his time spent out of doors, he
felt as if dwelling in an enchanted land and
could scarcely realize the fact that he was in
possession of a fine old estate, which enti-
tled him to many honors and privileges, he
never had dreamed of, so limited had been
his previous life.
	Country gentlemen interested in politics
wanted him to run for the county as their
representative, and knowing his ability as a
man and the natural tact he possessed gave
him every encouragement that his election
would be sure if he would allow his name
to be used. He was very unaspiring and
dreaded the publicity thinking his mother’s
marriage would be dragged up to public
scrutiny and he could not endure that one
shadow of suspicion should fall upon her
memory, and he firmly refused to be nomi-
nated. Cousin Jane heartily approved his
course, though it would have been a credit
to have the borough represented by so tal-
ented a young man as Clair Hilliard. He
felt a degree of pride in the thought but the
risk was too great.
	The afternoon sports and pastimes were
in full operation in the country side and many
invitations to shooting parties came in to
young Hilliard for he was fast becoming
popular, and as Maitland offered to go here
and there with him and give him the bene-
fit of his slight knowledge of the chase, he
fiinally decided to go to Greyson Manor
about twenty miles away but in another
county, and one early morning the two
young men rode away together watched by
the eyes of love. It was expected they
would be absent several days and the house
seemed lonely, for Clair was full of life and
his merry whistle and tuneful voice in song
were a perfect delight to all the household
and tenantry.
	The Greysons were charmed with the so-
ciety of these two fine young men, and
every attention was given to their entertain-
ment. The house was pretty well filled
with gentlemen most of them sportsmen
accustomed to the chase, and as they were
thrown together much during the time,
naturally the young men, and especially

[column 3]

Clair whose foreign accent and manners
made him more attractive, were noticed and
aroused some curiosity.
	Say Greyson who is this dashing young
sportsman, with the French accent? He is
not much on the game, unless it be of anoth-
er sort than we are likely to find hereabouts?
What did you say about his pedigree?  Born
on the continent his father an Englishman
you said, but his mother who was she?
These questions were asked by one of Grey-
son’s friends Sir Thomas Lonsdall. “Some
singer poor but beautiful, the most wonder-
ful eyes I’ve been told no one here knows
exactly, who she was but when Sir. Ed-
ward Hilliard died, it had to come out, he
left it all square, could’nt stand the public-
ity himself, but meant to make amends, she
was dead long before; in fact did’nt live
long after the boy was born I think.” “O, is
that it, well I’m glad to hear this story, it
makes things clearer! How many women’s
hearts did the old fellow break? There was
Helen Leigh, now Lady Walton, then this
Italian woman, and his third conquest whom
he honestly married I suppose: and his son
if appearances are not deceptive may break
even more hearts than his father.”
	“The boy is innocent enough not so cour-
ageous as the old Baronet, there was never a
better shot than Sir Edward, and the wom-
en all admired him, nothing tame about him
nor forgiving either, the sturdy old lion-
hearted Briton, from away back.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PREHISTORIC MAN IN AMERICA.
	It is a fact beyond all dispute that an
ancient people, probably civilized to a high
degree, lived in America long before it was
discovered by Columbus, and who do not
appear to be the American Indians. This
fact one or two modern writers seek to dis-
prove, and in this article I will give both
the old and the new theory concerning pre-
historic man in America.
	We have much of an early history which
antedates the Columbian discovery, for in
late years many men have been engaged in
the collection of its data. It is one of the
grand discoveries of the scientific era of cul-
ture that man has inhabited the globe from
high antiquity that the primal man was of rude
culture, and that his progress from the low-
est to the highest is marked in a broad way,
by stages well defined. Human evolution
is as much a part of of science as botany,
chemistry, electricity or astronomy.
	Were these prehistoric people known to
the ancients? Was America also known to
them? These questions may in time be sat-
isfactorily answered, but at present they are
matters of speculation.
	To the early voyagers and explorers our
land must have seemed lonely, but sooner
or later traces of human occupants were
found in this wilderness. One writer says:
“Every one who explores the mounds of the
Ohio valley, or gazes on the ruins of Yuca-
tan, or looks into the wondrous narrative of
the Spanish conquerors must involuntarily
think: Who were these men and women,
what was their origin, what their mode of
life? Until within a few years there has
seemed no answer. Facts have come in fast-
er and faster, and every new fact has made
the puzzle seem more hopeless, so long as
no one could offer the solution. These vari-
ous prehistoric races, so widely sundered,
threw no light upon each other; they only
deepened each other’s darkness. Indians,
Aztecs, Mayas, Mound Builders seemed to


[column 1]﻿

have no common origin, no visible analogy
of life or habits. The most skillful student
was hardly in advance of the least skillful
as to any real comprehension of the facts;
nor could this possibly be otherwise, so long
as the clew to the labyrinth was not found.
It is only thirty years since it may be said
to have been discovered; only some eight or
ten years since it has been used.”
	The antiquities of Mexico and Central
America reveal religious symbols, devices,
and ideas nearly identical with those found in
the old world. Humboldt traveled exten-
sively in America and observed the remains
of this prehistoric race. He was convinced
that some communication existed between
it and Europe. He thought this was prov-
ed, not only by their religious symbols, but
by the architecture, the hieroglyphics, and
the social customs made known by the ruins.
These he was sure came from the other side
of the ocean.
	The aborigines of America believed in a
good and an evil power, and the immortal-
ty of the soul. According to their tra-
ditions the Almighty Being, who was the
good spirit, created a man and a woman
from a stone, but upon some dislike destroy-
ed them. He then made another couple
from a tree, who were the ancestors of all
the nations of the earth; Another tradition
says in the third generation there came a del-
uge in which not a soul was saved. In or-
der to repeople the earth it was necessary to
change animals into men. These or similar
traditions were found among nearly all the
Indian tribes in both North and South
America, but what originated them is not
known.
	For many years it was thought that the
prehistoric race or races of America came
from Asia across Behring strait, but this
theory is attended by many difficulties.
There are no affinities between the Ameri-
can race and the Chinese, Japanese, or other
Asiatic people in language, customs, arts or
manner of living. The language of the red
men is very different from all Asiatic
tongues. It is a product purely and wholly
American, without any old world affiuities
or analogies whatsoever; It is described as
polysynthetic, often expressing a whole sen-
tence in a word of seventeen syllables.
There are seven hundred and sixty Indian
languages, and this characteristic applies to
them all. Then their physical, and for the
most part their mental traits are all their
own. All signs, then, would seem to favor
the theory that the native Americans are as
indigenous to the country as are its peculiar
fauna and flora; or, at all events, if they did
originally issue from Asia it must have been
in a most remote prehistoric time.
	A second theory for the origin of the pre-
historic race is found in the traditions of
Peru, which tell of a people who came to
that country by sea, and landed on the Pac-
fic coast. In ancient times the Malays
were a great maritime empire and these
people might easily have reached South
America, for dialects of the Malay language
are scattered across the Pacific ocean as far
as Easter island.
	Whoever these people were they built
cities and originated the oldest and finest
monuments of ancient civilisation. The
ruins they left show marvelous workman-
ship in architecture, paintings, and mosaics,
each displaying artistic designs in the high-
est style. Some of the carving in Peru,
Mexico, and Central America is excellent.
Not only are ordinary objects represented,
but the human figure is sculptured in an ex-

[column 2]

pressive and vigorous style, though not al-
ways with much beauty. The incense burn-
ers found in Mexico have good heads and
faces carved upon them.
	Recently a gentlemen who has spent sev-
eral years in Honduras, Central America,
told me he had seen a hand and foot lately
taken from some prehistoric ruins that were
perfect representations. He is a surgeon
and has made the human figure a special
study, and his opinion on such subjects is
valuable. He also said that on top of a cer-
tain mountain, quite difficult to reach, is a
large subterranean chamber which contains
many specimens of this ancient carving.
Among other things is a beautiful hammock
carved in white marble, which shows accur-
ately all the fine meshes and folds. Sitting
in the hammock is a figure representing the
Child Christ. This is cut in black marble,
making a strong contrast to the white mar-
ble of the hammock. A lady asked him
what was the reason of this, and he replied:
“The people were black, so they likened
Christ after themselves, not knowing there
were other people of another color.” The
natives permit many statues and other beau-
tiful objects to be taken away, but the ham-
mock is considered sacred and they will not
allow it to be disturbed.
	Diodorus, a Greek living at the time of
Julius and Augustus Caesar, wrote an im-
portant passage concerning America in his
history of the world from the creation down
to the Roman empire under Julius Caesar.
He traveled extensively, both in Europe
and Asia, gathering material for his writ-
ings. His account is not mythical, and
seems to be given as a historical fact rather
than as a tradition. He says: ‘‘Over
against Africa lies a very great island in the
vast ocean, many days’ sail from Libya,
westward. The soil is very fruitful. It is
diversified with mountains and pleasant
vales, and the towns are adorned with state-
ly buildings." After describing the gardens,
orchards, and fountains he tells how this
pleasant country was discovered. The
Phoenicians built ships and sailed along the
Atlantic coast of Africa. A Phoenician ship
voyaging down the coast was “on a sudden,”
to use his language, driven by a furious
storm far into the main ocean, and after they
had lain under this tempest many days they
at length arrived at this island. The land
reached by these Phoenicians is likely to
have been some part of Central America or
Yucatan, where at that time stood the great
cities now in ruins. There is a similar state-
ment in a work attributed to Aristotle in
which the discovery is ascribed to the Cartha-
genians.
	Theopompus also speaks of the existence
of a continent beyond the Atlantic which was
larger than Asia, Europe, and Libya togeth-
er. A race of men called Meropes dwelt
there and had extensive cities.
	Again, it is a historical fact that the Nor-
semen sailing from Iceland not only discov-
ered America, in the tenth century, but also
established colonies on the coast of New
England, and that they preserved commun-
cation with these colonies for two centuries.
However, the Irish preceded the Norsemen
both in Iceland and America. There are
many legends and traditions concerning the
passage of the Irish into America, and their
habitual communication with it many cen-
turies before the time of Columbus. Ireland,
itself, was colonized by the Phoenicians, or
by people of that race. An Irish saint,
named Vigile, who lived in the eighth cen-
tury, was accused of certain things and went

[column 3]

to Rome to justify himself before Pope
Zachary. Among other things he proved
to the pope that the Irish had been accus-
tomed to communicate with a transatlantic
world. This fact is preserved in the records
of the Vatican.
			[To be continued.]


16			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E.
FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

[Logo of Rio Grane Western Railway]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAYI!
THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.O. DODGE, A.E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G.F. & P.A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
DAVD JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
