No. 1, Vol. 1, has been received.  It gives
the names of the members of the P. C. W.
P. A. and also Officers and Standing Com-
mittees of the Association.  It also contains
the address of the newly-elected President,
Emily Browne Powell. The editor is
Florence Percy Matheson a woman of
genuine, original, literary ability and
pleasing address.  Mrs. Matheson is the
daughter of Elizabeth Akers Allen with
whose songs and poems the public have
been familiar these many years.  Her col-
lection of poems is entitled, "High Top
Sweetin's."  We wish this new venture the
most perfect success, as an enterprise, and
also because of our appreciation of the ef-
forts of women in the newspaper work.
As a number of the P. C. W. P. A. it
should certainly have our hearty support
and best wishes for the increase of its cir-
culation.
	MISS GENEVIEVE LUCILE BROWN who
 resided here for some time and made many
friends while in this City, and whose pen
was always very busy while here writing
verses or other articles for papers and maga-
zines has assumed the assistant editorship
of the New California Magazine.  Doubt-
less our readers will be pleased to learn of
her good luck, especially the ladies of the
Utah Woman's Press Club, to which she
belongs and who miss her presence in the
meetings.


SAVONAROLA.

		THE FLORENTINE REFORMER. 
	SAVONAROLA, a name known throughout
the civilized world, the great reformer and
Churchman, who looms up above the men
of his time in the renowned city of
Florence; was born in Ferrara, September
23rd. 1452, at the court of the Duke: and
was the grandson of an eminent physician,
which profession his parents intended for
him. Girolamo Savonarola was one of
a large but not a wealthy family, the one
however, it is said, on whom his kindred
had built their hopes. His contemporary
and disciple Burlamacchi says, "he was
such a diligent student, that he worked
day and night and attained great proficiency
in the liberal arts," then termed the polite
arts. Learned in the philosophy of the
schools, educated in the best institutions
of that day and age, he held a high place
in the estimation of the world of letters and
he had before him wealth, honor and
celebrity, but he was more seriously and
thoughtfully inclined, disregarding the views,
customs and opinions of those who were the
leaders of society, as it existed in Florence
at that period.
	Italy was at that time the prey of petty
tyrants and wicked priests; Dukes and
Popes vieing with each other which could
live most lewdly, most lavishly and most
cruelly; in fact like wolves among a help-
less flock. The subtleties of logic, the
discussions of Platonic society, and gram-
matical disquisitions were nothing to his
young soul, yearning for virtue and truth,
and with intense sympathy for suffering
and wrong.

[Column 2]
	As soon as he felt, “the stirrings of
manhood, within him a righteous sorrow
and burning indignation took possession of
him.” This profound appreciation of the
evils around him made the young Savonaro-
la sad, silent and even melancholy; he kept
himself retired and solitary wandering
much in lonely places, in open fields and
along the banks of rivers; sometimes sing-
ing, sometimes weeping, and in such ways
giving vent to the overpowering emotions
that burdened his spirit.
	His prophetic utterances were wonderful,
but the only mode of expression in which
he found relief then was rough and impas-
sioned verse. These early poems show
his depth of disgust at the state of society,
when learning and philosophy and the arts
of Italy and especially of Florence were at
their very height; "he looked upon the
world as turned upside down," as will be
seen by the following extract from one of
those ardent descriptive poems:— 

*   *   *   *   * in wild confusion tost,
The very depths and essence lost,
	Of all good ways and every virtue bright,
	Nor shines one living light,
Nor one who of his vices feels the shame;
	Happy henceforth. he who by rapine lives,
	He who on blood of others swells and thrives
Who widows robs and from his childrens needs,
	Takes tribute and the poor to ruin drives;
Those souls shall now be thought most rare and
		good,
	Who most by fraud and force can gain,
	Who heaven and Christ disdain,
Whose thoughts on others harm forever brood."

	While these things were boiling in his
heart, “the city raged or reeled behind him,
its streets running blood, or running wine;
according to the turn of fortune;” the
doctors of philosophy and men eminent for
learning babbling of questions of dead
grammatic lore, and no man thinking of
truth, mercy and judgment and the remedies
for evil and sin.
	In the midst of this state of things a lit-
tle episode of happiness came into the boy's
life which cast such a magic and glamour
over him that temporarily he was blinded
to the evils around him; the gates of an
earthly paradise opened to him and veiled
the horrors of the world. He had become
enamored of a young Florentine girl, the
daughter of an exiled Strozzi, one of the
proudest and most powerful houses in
Florence; this beautifnl dream was of short
duration and his biographers state, “that
it soon ended in sorrowful rejection on the
ground that his famiiy was not sufficiently
exalted to mate with that of Strozzi.”
	This was the culminating point to sepa-
rate him from the world, and he determined
then to enter a cloister. His reasons glven
in a very touching letter written to his
father were, “great misery of the world,
iniquities of men, so that things have come
to such a pass that no one can be found
acting righteously. I could not endure the
enormous wickedness of the blinded people
of Italy; and the more so because I saw
everywhere virtue despised and vice hon-
ored; a greater sorrow I could not have in
this world.”
	About this period Savonarola relieved
his mind by writing an essay, “Disdain of
the World,” he left it with some books be-
hind the window sill when he went away
partly in explanation of his singular con-
duct. His mother, according to biogra-
phers seemed to have been inspirational and
one sees in Savonarola as in Joseph Smith
the spiritual endowment of the mother's
nature.
	Savonarola was not only prophetic and


'poetical but gifted in music also, revealing.
'the finer elements and emotions, that ever
characterize, those sensitive souls who feel
much more than it is is possible to express
in the language of the world, and are never
quite understood, even by those with whom
they are intimately associated.
	On St. George’s day of the great festa at
Ferrara, the 24th. of April while all the
family were away sharing the gay festivities,
a day made sweet by the glorious spring of
Italy, he stole out unnoticed and left his
father’s house forever to enter a convent;
this was in 1475 when he was 23 years of
age, at that time he had no desire to be
either, a priest or a monk, he was melan-
choly and sick of the world. He crossed
the sunny plain to Bologna and presented
himself at the Dominican Convent; he
asked only to be a lay brother, to ease his
Soul with simple work in the garden, or to
make rude garments for the monks, which
seemed better to him than the vain questions
and doctrines of Aristotle; but soon after
taking refuge in the cloister he was made
lecturer of the convent, and found himself
in the same round of philosophy; but there
he was forced to obey. It is said, “he
obeyed with docility,” a sign of grace in
him not in keeping with his emotional tem-
perament.
	This plunge into the Church to escape
from the world was calculated to convince
the young man more readily of the cor-
ruption of the Church and in a way sharp-
er and more heartfelt than before. Pope
Sixtus IV. and many inferior prelates
caused him to see with critical eyes, and to
lament the sins of the Church. “He sees
the true Church in a vision, and sees her
place invaded by a shameless creature, sees
her bosom torn with a thousand wounds,
hears enough to make the stones weep of
the usurpation of the harlot.” For years
after he had to be silent and to teach the
novices, and lecture upon philosophy as if
there was no greater evil in the world than
a  defective syllogism, but his discontent
smouldered until the hour of conflagration
came. He made the best of a lot now
apparently unalterable and besides his
teaching wrote essays and poems of value,
among them a “Compendium of
Philosophy” an epitome of all the writings
of the Stagyrite. He began an elaborate
study of Plato which he after wards destroy-
ed. Seven years of this sort of life was the
interval of waiting before his real mission
came to him. After his obscure life in the
convent, he came forth strengthened, for
the burden that lay upon him. Toiling
across the rugged Appenines after his re-
lease from the bondage of the cloister, he
went to Florence with hopeful anticipations;
when the city was under the sway of
Lorenzo de Medici; and was pleased, yea,
delighted with that fair country the purer
language, the higher civilization of the
people, and when he saw Florence in its
beauty, in the rich garden valleys with
flowers, and olive trees, everything beauti-
ful in nature and noble in art, a sense of
coming greatness seems to have been per-
mitted him in face of the terrible fate he
was yet to meet.
	Lorenzo reigned in the midst of a lettered
crowd of classic parasites and flatterers,
“writing poems which his courtiers praised
and surrounding himself with those eloquent
slaves that make a prince’s name more
famous than arms or victories. A man of
superb health and physical power who

[Column 2]
can give himself up to debauch all night,
without interfering with his power of
working all day, and whose mind is so
versatile that he can sack a town one
morning and discourse upon the beauties
of Plato the next, and weave joyous ballads
through both occupations gives his flatterers
reason when they applaud him. Such a
man was Lorenzo de Medici, the leader of
Florence.”
	“The few honorable and righteous men
there kept apart overwhelmed by the tide
which ran in favor of that leading citizen of
the far-famed city of Florence. Society
had never been more dissolute, more sel-
fish, or more depraved. In  fact the age of
Lorenzo looked largely forward to the wor-
ship of Pagan gods.”
	Cardinal Bambo bade his friends “beware
of reading St. Paul's Epistles, lest their
barbarous style should corrupt his taste.”
This intellectual age was full of debauchery,
cruelty and corruption, violating oaths,
betraying trusts, believing in nothing but
Greek manuscripts, coins and statues, car-
ing for nothing but pleasure.
	This eventful period of intellectual
development and growth in all that is
beautiful in art and heroic in science proves
the falsity of the assertion so often made
that education alone will elevate mankind.
it is not so—there must ever be a balance
of spiritual power to hold in check the pas-
sions and to counteract the influence of ex-
cesses in luxuries and pleasures.
	This condition of the city of Florence
was the awakening of Savonarola, the
hour had come when he could no longer be
silent.
	“Florence lying in bonds, smears of
blood upon her garments, and loathsome
songs upon her lips, and the church groan-
ing under the domination of one evil Pope,
looking forward to a worse monster still—
for the reign of the Borgias, culmination
of all evil, all wickedness was approaching.
Savonarola felt the burden of oppression
that lay upon the common people, a sense
of terror and punishment, the vengeance of
God against a world full of iniquity that
darkened the very air around him.”
	Savonarola was sent out to preach like
others in the towns and villages at pene-
tential seasons, and even then he could not
help uttering the prophecies that filled his
soul. Wherever he was allowed to preach
in Brescia, in San Geminiano the flood
poured forth; “and in spite of himself he
thundered from the pulpit a thousand woes
against the wicked with intense and alarm-
ing effect. When he endeavored to speak
in lettered Florence, no one took any trouble
to listen to the Lombard monk, whose ac-
cent was harsh, and his periods not daintily
formed, and who went against all the
unities. But San Geminiano, among the
hills, when it heard that same voice amid
the glooms of Lent, thought nothing of
the Lombard accent, and trembled at the
prophetic woe denounced against sin; and
in Brescia "the hearers grew pale and paler
still, years after when the preacher’s words
were verified.” He preached Woe! Woe!
but restoration and blessing if men would
repent and turn from their sins. “Not
preacher enough to please the Florentines,
who loved fine periods it is evident, how-
ever, that Florence had seized upon his af-
fections with all the vehemence of a passion,
he loved her as so many have done, he re-
linquished his own city and clave to his
new dwelling place she was his choice, the

[Column 3]
very queen of cities, the centre of the world,
a kind of Jerusalem typical and exalted;
and he cast in his lot and adopted her fate
and fortunes as his own.
	The crisis occurred when on one of' his
preaching tours he attended the Dominican
chapter at Reggio, and was seen and heard
by a genial and gentle courtier Giovanni
Picodella Mirandola one of Lorenzo’s most
affectionate flatterers and friends. This
court butterfly was the most learned and
accomplished that ever fluttered near a
prince but tender hearted and amiable and
the kindly insight of an unspoiled heart
He saw Savonarola among the other
Dominicans, noticed his remarkable face,
heard him speak with such power and force
that the whole audience were moved.
	Probably something more, some personal
contact, some touch of the unseen that
went to the heart of the young Pico, a
noble young gentleman, amid all his frippery
of courtier and virtuoso. He was so cap-
tivated by Savonarola, that he gave Lorenzo
no peace till he authoritatively recalled the
fiery preacher from his wanderings and
brought him back to Florence permanently.
Young Pico felt he could not live without
this newly discovered preacher and Lorenzo
unwittingly at his friend’s request, ordered
back to Florence the only man who dared
stand face to face with himself and tell him
he had done wrong. Savonarola came
back unwillingly; but by this time he had
learned to leaven his philosophy with the
teaching of the Bible which he loved and
which he had learned by heart, and used as
a text book, launching forth into a wider
sea of discussion as his mind expanded.
His popularity increased under the influence
of young Pico and larger audiences gather-
ed; men of Florence came one after another
to hear a man who spoke with authority
and had something to tell them,” the
greatest of all attractions to the ever curi-
ous soul of man. 
To be continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

		SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of Quarterly Conference of
Sanpete R. S. held in Manti Dec. 10th,
1892.  Counselor Sarah Peterson presiding,
after opening exercises, of singing and
prayer, Sister Peterson addressed the
meeting.  Referred to the union existing
in regard to the World’s Fair Association
and also spoke of the picture which had
been decided upon as an exhibit from the
ladies of Sanpete.
	Sister Jacobs of Lehi referred to the
blessings she had received while laboring
in the Temple during the past week.  Spoke
in terms of praise of the President of the
Relief Society in Lehi and of her abiding
faith in the Gospel.  Also of the duties
and responsibilities of the Relief Society
in lightening the labors of the Bishops.
	Sister Peterson dwelt at some length up-
on the necessity of being liberal in giving,
and upon the duties of the sisters in visit-
ing the sick and comforting the afflicted,
the necessity of storing grain, and urged
the sisters to greater diligence in this mat-
ter.
	Sister Helena Madson of Gunnison
praised the energy and faithfulness of the
sisters of her Ward in Relief Society work
and also in the World’s Fair Association.
	Sister Wareham reported the sisters of
Manti North Ward as willing ones, ener-


getic in all their duties; esteemed it a privi-
lege that the women of Zion could be rep-
resented at the Columbian Exposition
through the World’s Fair Association, hoped
it would prove a grand success.
	Sister Dorius reported the sisters of
Ephraim, South Ward as being alive to their
duties.  Said the purposed World’s Fair
exhibit had met with universal approval.
	Sister Anderson reported the sisters of
Ephraim, North Ward, as being very dili-
gent in ministering to the wants of the poor
and afflicted.
	Sister Casto represented the South Ward
of Manti; the teachers were faithful and
diligent in performing their labors and the
poor were well provided for, bore testimony
to her abiding faith in the Gospel.
	Sister Minerva W. Snow was glad to
hear the report of their good works, and
was rejoiced to know that the poor were
provided for, felt that the sisters were blest
in their labors, because they were united
with the Priesthood.
	Prest. John B. Maiben bore testimony to
the good work accomplished by the sisters;
felt that all who were willing to respond to
the call would receive the blessing; thought
that the sisters of the Relief Society were
like Mary of old, and had chosen the bet-
ter part.
	Prest. Canute Peterson exhorted the sis-
ters to persevere in well doing that they
may receive the reward promised to the
faithful; was pleased with the reports from
the various Wards, thought they bore
strong testimony to the faithfulness and
diligence of the sisters.
	Sister Snow regretted the absence of
Sister Hyde, knew her to be a woman of
God; desired all to lift their hearts in pray-
er in her behalf.
	Conference adjourned until March, sing-
ing “Praise God from whom all blessings
flow.” Benediction by Bishop S. L.
Anderson.	L. A. Cox. Sec. Pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CONFERENCE OF CHARITIES.

	THE Territorial conference of charities
was called by Mrs. Cornelia Paddock, sec-
retary for Utah of the National Conference
of Charities and Corrections, to meet in the
East Side Baptist church at 10 o’clock.
	At 10:30 a. m. Mrs. Paddock called the
meeting to order, and acted in the capacity
of presiding officer. Prayer was offered by
the Rev. Mr. Adams, after which Mr. Staf-
ford read a circular, stating the aims and
methods of the national organization. Mrs.
Paddock then said that some months ago
the president of the national conference
informed her that at the meeting next sum-
mer she was expected to review the history
of charitable work in Utah for the past
twenty years. She felt that she was un-
able to do so with the information then in
her possession, so had called this Territorial
Conference, and had invited those engaged
in charitable work to report what had been
done. The efforts of the national organiz-
ation were directed to the prevention of
crimes as well as to relieving the poor.
	Miss Emma McCornick presented a re-
port of the Young Ladies’ Aid society—
the report being made by the founder of the
society, Mrs. Miriam Godbe Brooks—as fol-
lows:
	The Young Ladies’ Aid Society, and out-
growth of the Ladies’ General Aid Society,
was organized Oct. 5th, 1886, with a mem-
bership of twelve young girls. As a non-

[Column 2]
sectarian institution its object was to aid all
cases of distress which came under its no-
tice, irrespective of age, creed or nationality.
It appoints each year a special visiting com-
mittee, whose duty it is to visit the homes
of these people and learn as nearly as pos-
sible their true condition, that they may be
helped accordingly.
	Since its organization the society has ex-
pended over nine thousand dollars. This
amount has been mainly spent for rents,
food and coal, but does not include a large
amount of clothing which has been made,
solicited and distributed among the poor.
It has given assistance to two hundred and
forty families. Some of these have received
aid every month since its organization;
others have been helped as occasion re-
quired. It has endeavored to secure em-
ployment for all who are able to work, and
has been the means of rendering many self-
supporting. Those assisted regularly each
month are either invalids or aged and in-
firm. Its income is derived from regular
monthly subscriptions and occasional enter-
tainments given by its members.
	The society’s membership has been in-
creased and limited to fifteen active mem-
bers, besides its associate members. The
officers for 1892 and 1893 are: Emma Mc-
Cornick, president; Fanny Hanauer, vice
president; Bertha Hemstead, secretary, and
Blanche Mackintosh, treasurer.
	Mr. L. Hyams then submitted the fol-
lowing report of the work of the Ladies’
Hebrew Benevolent society of this city, for
the past year, together with a brief history
of the work since its organization.
	The receipts during the year 1892 were
$749.10; disbursements, $757.12; the num-
ber of persons assisted being twenty-eight,
the majority of whom were transients.
	The Ladies’ Hebrew Benevolent society
was organized January 4th, 1888, with a
charter membership of twenty-one. Its
present membership is fifty-three. Al-
though the organization is sectarian in its
membership, it has always extended a help-
ing hand to all persons applying for aid.
Its income is derived from monthly dues
and the proceeds of social entertainments.
	The total receipts from all sources for the
past five years were $3,093.50; the expendi-
tures for same period, $2,416.50; leaving the
sum of $677 in the treasury. The total
number of persons that has been assisted
since the organization is ninety-six.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt reported the Deseret
Hospital had been unable because of pro-
fessional calls to complete a written sketch
of the institution, but this would be hand-
ed in. The lady stated that the hospital
was founded May 12, 1882, as an aid to the
Relief Society and other organizations
among the Latter-day Saints in caring for
the sick and those suffering from injuries.
During the past nine years, attention had
been given at the hospital to an average of
one hundred patients per year. The institu-
tion had met with good success in the treat-
ment of those placed in its care, the death
rate being low for the class of cases brought
in. The expense is between $500 and $600
per month, about one half of which is for
charity patients. The institution is well
furnished, and is supported partly by
contributions from the Relief Society and
Young Ladies’ associations among the Lat-
ter Day Saints.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells reported the Relief
Society. She said the name of the organiz-
ation was now the National Woman’s

[Column 3]
Relief Society. It had existed from the
early days of the Mormon Church, though
during the emigration to Utah and settlement
here its work was carried on in a desultory
way. The people were then poor. As
settlements were established in the Terri-
tory branch societies were organized in
each ward. They had accomplished a
great work in providing for the poor nurs-
ing the sick, etc. At present the organiza-
tion is most complete, comprising in all
26,700 members. There is a general cen-
tral organization of seven members; then a
county or stake central board; and in each
ward a complete organization. These have
a corps of teachers, who visit the people
and report once a month. Thus the con-
dition and needs of every person in the
ward should be known. Most of the wo-
men of the Church are on its membership
roll. The organization owns real estate,
buildings etc. It also has a number of
granaries and a large quantity of wheat;
for its members have known the contingen-
cies which arise in this region to bring
scarcity of food, and have therefore pro-
vided for them. It is anticipated that the
society will ultimately be able to carry on
its work by means accumulated and &c;
though in the past it has called for some
from the public.
	Each branch society should contribute
$1 per month for the support of the Deseret
hospital. The society is educational as
well as benevolent, and has accomplished a
good work in qualifying its members for
the better performance of duties resting on
them. Mrs. Wells stated that her histori-
cal sketch of the society and its report for
1892 would be prepared and filed with Mrs.
Paddock.
	Father Scanlan, who was to have report
ed the Catholic charities, was not present,
and Prof. F. W. Metcalf, by request, read
an account of the circumstances which led
to the first establishment of a board of
supervision of state charities at Albany,
New York.
	Mrs. Jeannette Ferry, Mrs. McVicker,
and Mrs. S. Deamude each made a few
remarks on the charitable work being done
by women. Mrs. Deamude, who is re-
cently from Iowa, suggested that the insti-
tution of a Sunday school at the peniten-
tiary would be beneficial to the inmates.
The conference then took recess till the
afternoon.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A NEW magazine, entitled Woman’s
Progress, is soon to be started in Phila-
delphia.
	FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE has started a
health crusade amongst the villages of
Buckingham, assisted by the County Coun-
cil Technical Instruction Committee.
	A BILL granting township suffrage to
women has been introduced in the Iillinois
Legislature.
	THE petition from Mrs. Armenia S. White
and others for municipal woman suffrage
has been presented in the New Hampshire
Legislature, and referred to the Judiciary
Committee.
	MISS EMILY C. WOODRUFF, of Little
Valley, N. Y., was ordained on Feb. 9th,
as pastor of the Congregational church of
that place. She has been conducting ser-
vices in the Little Valley church since the
death of her husband some months ago.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE wife of Renan will superintend the
publication of the remaining volumes of
his "Histoire du Peuple d' Israel." He
also committed to her care a portfolio of
notes dating back as far as 1845, which he
counted of special value.
	MRS. LYNDE CRAIG was recently admit-
ted to practice before the Supreme and other
courts of California. She is the second Wo-
man to be admitted to the bar of that State,
Mrs. Clara Foltz being the first. The
course of the Hastings Law School usually
occupies three years, but Mrs. Craig passed
her examination before the Supreme Cotirt
at the end of one and one-half years of
study. In a class of twenty-seven she
stood at the head of the sixteen who passed.
Mrs. Craig is an active member of the
Pacific Coast Woman's Press Association,
is the historian of the Law Club, historian
of the Revolution, and was for ten years a
teacher in the Girl's High School. Last
November she became the wife of Scipio
Craig, the editor of the Redlands Citro-
graph. At the time when Mrs. Craig pass-
ed her examination, Mr. Craig was attend-
ing the convention of the Editorial Associ-
ation as its president, and when he received
the news of her success, he immediately
telegraphed her the congratulations of all
the assembled editors.


KNOWLEDGE

	WE are told that knowledge is power. If
so, is it dangerous to have knowledge?
Most certainly if we have not wisdom to
control, this power, for it must be used in
wisdom to show its true value.
	St. Paul says, that knowledge puffeth
up, but charity edifieth.
	Here then is the danger of power with-
out wisdom to govern and control this
power: you will run too fast yes heedlessly, 
if you allow pride to lead you; because
pride will call your attention to see so many
things and also to see what impression you
are making upon others, that you grow
wild over your success before you have ac-
complished that which you undertake to do.
But wisdom will teach you to be careful and
be sure that you understand what to do and
how to do it, before being satisfied with the
undertaking.
	Here we can see the reason that a dull or
comparatively dull pupil will arrive at great-
er attainments than one whose intellect is
quick and bright, and all the time on the
alert, to catch some new idea of his sur-
roundings.
	He thinks oh, I can catch that idea at
any time when I give my attention to it,
but, now I am after something else,—In this
way he will accomplish very little because
he has too many irons in the fire, figuratively
speaking, and he is easily puffed up as St.
Paul once said, knowledge puffeth up, etc.
	I believe this is the reason so many
people are unsuccessful through life and al-
ways in want: because they have not wis-
dom to set a proper value upon time, or the
small amount of means that may give them
a start in life.

	But remember, if we use it by the in-
fluence of a wicked spirit it will prove a
curse instead of a blessing: as we some-
times see when a great fortune is left to a
spendthrift, how quickly he goes to ruin.
This is because wisdom is lacking. Well
did the wise king say, “With all thy get-
ting—get wisdom: for length of days is in


her right hand, and in her left riches and
honor.  Her ways are ways of pleasant-
ness and all her paths are peace." Proverbs
chapter 3. We need both. Your aged 
friend. M. E. K.


IN MEMORIAM.

	RESOLUTIONS of Respect on the death of
Sister Jane P. Oldham, wife of Bishop Samuel
Oldham who departed this life Dec 18th 1892,
at Paradise, Cache Co, Utah.
	Whereas: Our Father in heaven has called from
our midst Sister Oldham, who was always
punctual in the performance of her duties in our
society, and had by meekness of spirit won the
respect and love of all who associated with her;
we feel to express our love for her in these few
lines.
	Resolved—that as a sister associate and friend
we feel that words are inadequate to express the
high estimation in which we held her, and while
we feel the deepest sorrow at the loss we sustain
in being deprived of her society, we bow sub-
missively to the will of him who doeth all things 
well, and say, "Thy will O Lord not ours be 
done."
	Resolved, that we cherish her memory and 
follow in the example she set us, that of being a
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved husband, family and
relatives; that one copy of these resolutions be
presented to them, a copy be entered on the
minute book of our society, and they be printed
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	 Elizabeth Remington, Elizabeth Bickmore,
Isabella Obrey, Elizabeth Shaw.
		Com in behalf of Relief Society.
Desr Sister, in sadness we mourn for you here;
Mortality's weak and can bear not the loss
Of those whom we love, and the trembling tear,
	Will lighten the load of our burdensome cross.
We weep still we knew by the pow'r of our faithr
	Your mission was ended; you'd gain'd you
		reward,
Which was something like this where the good
		Father saith
"Enter into thy rest and the joys of the Lord."
We weep for we know that behind you remains,
	A tender young flock, that had need of thy care,
To guide them along over Life's weary plains,
By thy fond mother love, and thy e'er faithful
		pray'r
We weep for we know that thy husband's kind
	heart
	Was rent with the sorrow that came when you
		died,
And bitter indeed was the summons to part,
	From the wife who so faithful had walked by
		his side.
But yet do we know in that bright day to come,
You'll all meet again where no sorrow or pain,
Can mar the sweet joys of your Heavenly home,
	Or death from your midst take the loved ones
again.   F. W. JACKSON.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED in Grantsville January 19th. 1893, of
Brights disease of the kidneys.  Louisa wife of
Andrew V. Millward and daughter of John and
Jane Eastham.  She was born December 6th.
1844 in Derby, Derbyshire England, baptized
when eight years old.  Married April 18th, 1862.
Emigrated to America April 23rd. in the same
year on board the John Y. Boyd.  Crossed the
Plains in James S. Brown's company, arrived in
Grantsville the same year, and resided in this
city until her death.  She was the mother of
twelve children, ten survive her; she was a strict
observer of the Word of Wisdom. A member
of the Ward choir and a teacher in the Relief
Society for many years. She was a good wife
and mother and above all, a Latter-day Saint.
Rest in peace.
	ROSE HAMMOND,President.
	M. A. HOUSE, Secretary.


DIED at West Porterville, Morgan Co. Nov. 9th.
1892, Mabel M. Stoddard, beloved daughter of
Oscar O. and Elizabeth Stoddard, born Dec. 2nd.
1878.
	Resolutions of respect, adopted by the West
Porterville, Primary Associations to the memory
of Mabel M. Stoddard.
	Whereas, in the Providence of our Heavenly 
Father we have been called to mourn the loss of


our beloved sister and friend, who having led a
life worthy of invitation has been called home:
	We desire to pay a tribute of respect to her
memory.
	Resolved, that we her associates and co-work-
ers, of the Primary Association do fondly cherish
her memory and while we sadly miss her: we
feel to bow in humble submission to the divine
will of Heaven.
	Resolved, that we condole with her bereaved
family in the loss of their dear one; not, however
without the consoling reflection that she has gone
in her purity and is worthy to come forth in the
first resurrection.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be entered
in the Primary record: also a copy be presented
to the parents of the deceased, and one be sent
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
	Dearest Mabel, we have loved you,
	We have loved you fond and true,
	And it fills our heart with sadness,
		That we have to part with you.
	But a crown of royal brightness,
		Waits to deck your honored brow,
	And a robe of purest whiteness,
		Waits your body to endow.
	Dearest sister we shall miss you
		We shall miss your presence here,
	But we hope again to meet you—
Farewell Mabel, farewell dear.
EMILY E. BROUGH, Prest. Primary Ass'n.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON
Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
			until 4 p.m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY,  EQUI- 
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches. Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
	No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
 Three doors west of Theatre.
         
	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her residence, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
R.K.THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORGE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
